
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 06:41:17 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.41 (Unix) PHP/5.2.10 mod_psoft_traffic/0.2 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.7a mod_macro/1.1.2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Common Cold - Causes, Symptoms & Treatment Search our Archive for the Latest News on The Common Cold Browse By Category | Browse Alphabetically | Search Health Conditions The Common Cold Fact Book Table of Contents The Common Cold The Problem The Causes The Cold Season Cold Symptoms How Cold Viruses Cause Disease How Colds are Spread Prevention Treatment The Outlook Keeping on Top of Your Condition The Common Cold Sneezing, scratchy throat, runny nose –
      everyone knows the first signs of a cold, probably the most common illness
      known. Although the common cold is usually mild, with symptoms lasting one
      to two weeks, it is a leading cause of doctor visits and of school and job
      absenteeism. The Problem In the course of a year, individuals in the United
      States suffer 1 billion colds, according to some estimates. Colds
      are most prevalent among children, and seem to be related to youngsters'
      relative lack of resistance to infection and to contacts with other
      children in day-care centers and schools. Children have about six to ten
      colds a year. In families with children in school, the number of colds per
      child can be as high as 12 a year. Adults average about two to four colds
      a year, although the range varies widely. Women, especially those aged 20
      to 30 years, have more colds than men, possibly because of their closer
      contact with children. On average, individuals older than 60 have fewer
      than one cold a year. The economic impact of the common cold is
      enormous. The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) estimates that,
      in 1996, 62 million cases of the common cold in the United States required
      medical attention or resulted in restricted activity. In 1996, colds
      caused 45 million days of restricted activity and 22 million days lost
      from school, according to NCHS. The Causes The Viruses. More than 200 different viruses
      are known to cause the symptoms of the common cold. Some, such as the
      rhinoviruses, seldom produce serious illnesses. Others, such as
      parainfluenza and respiratory syncytial virus, produce mild infections in
      adults but can precipitate severe lower respiratory infections in young
      children. Rhinoviruses (from the Greek rhin , meaning
      "nose") cause an estimated 30 to 35 percent of all adult colds, and are
      most active in early fall, spring and summer. More than 110 distinct
      rhinovirus types have been identified. These agents grow best at
      temperatures of 33 degrees Celsius [about 91 degrees Fahrenheit (F)], the
      temperature of the human nasal mucosa. Coronaviruses are believed
      to cause a large percentage of all adult colds. They induce colds
      primarily in the winter and early spring. Of the more than 30 isolated
      strains, three or four infect humans. The importance of coronaviruses as
      causative agents is hard to assess because, unlike rhinoviruses, they are
      difficult to grow in the laboratory. Approximately 10 to 15 percent
      of adult colds are caused by viruses also responsible for other, more
      severe illnesses: adenoviruses, coxsackieviruses, echoviruses,
      orthomyxoviruses (including influenza A and B viruses), paramyxoviruses
      (including several parainfluenza viruses), respiratory syncytial virus and
      enteroviruses. The causes of 30 to 50 percent of adult colds,
      presumed to be viral, remain unidentified. The same viruses that produce
      colds in adults appear to cause colds in children. The relative importance
      of various viruses in pediatric colds, however, is unclear because of the
      difficulty in isolating the precise cause of symptoms in studies of
      children with colds. Does cold weather cause a cold? Although many people are convinced that a cold results from exposure to
      cold weather, or from getting chilled or overheated, NIAID grantees have
      found that these conditions have little or no effect on the development or
      severity of a cold. Nor is susceptibility apparently related to factors
      such as exercise, diet, or enlarged tonsils or adenoids. On the other
      hand, research suggests that psychological stress, allergic disorders
      affecting the nasal passages or pharynx (throat), and menstrual cycles may
      have an impact on a person's susceptibility to colds. The Cold Season In the United States, most colds occur during the
      fall and winter. Beginning in late August or early September, the
      incidence of colds increases slowly for a few weeks and remains high until
      March or April, when it declines. The seasonal variation may relate to the
      opening of schools and to cold weather, which prompt people to spend more
      time indoors and increase the chances that viruses will spread from person
      to person. Seasonal changes in relative humidity also may affect
      the prevalence of colds. The most common cold-causing viruses survive
      better when humidity is low—the colder months of the year. Cold weather
      also may make the nasal passages' lining drier and more vulnerable to
      viral infection. Cold Symptoms Symptoms of the common cold usually begin two to
      three days after infection and often include nasal discharge, obstruction
      of nasal breathing, swelling of the sinus membranes, sneezing, sore
      throat, cough, and headache. Fever is usually slight but can climb to
      102 o F in infants and young children. Cold symptoms can last
      from two to 14 days, but two-thirds of people recover in a week. If
      symptoms occur often or last much longer than two weeks, they may be the
      result of an allergy rather than a cold. Colds occasionally can
      lead to secondary bacterial infections of the middle ear or sinuses,
      requiring treatment with antibiotics. High fever, significantly swollen
      glands, severe facial pain in the sinuses, and a cough that produces
      mucus, may indicate a complication or more serious illness requiring a
      doctor's attention. How Cold Viruses Cause Disease Viruses cause infection by
      overcoming the body's complex defense system. The body's first line of
      defense is mucus, produced by the membranes in the nose and throat. Mucus
      traps the material we inhale: pollen, dust, bacteria and viruses. When a
      virus penetrates the mucus and enters a cell, it commandeers the
      protein-making machinery to manufacture new viruses which, in turn, attack
      surrounding cells. Cold symptoms: the body fights back. Cold symptoms are probably the result of the body's immune response to the
      viral invasion. Virus-infected cells in the nose send out signals that
      recruit specialized white blood cells to the site of the infection. In
      turn, these cells emit a range of immune system chemicals such as kinins.
      These chemicals probably lead to the symptoms of the common cold by
      causing swelling and inflammation of the nasal membranes, leakage of
      proteins and fluid from capillaries and lymph vessels, and the increased
      production of mucus. Kinins and other chemicals released by immune
      system cells in the nasal membranes are the subject of intensive research.
      Researchers are examining whether drugs to block them, or the receptors on
      cells to which they bind, might benefit people with colds. How Colds are Spread Depending on the virus type, any or all of
      the following routes of transmission may be common: Touching infectious respiratory secretions on skin and on
        environmental surfaces and then touching the eyes or nose. Inhaling relatively large particles of respiratory secretions
        transported briefly in the air. Inhaling droplet nuclei: smaller infectious particles suspended in
        the air for long periods of time. Research on rhinovirus
      transmission. Much of the research on the transmission of the common
      cold has been done with rhinoviruses, which are shed in the highest
      concentration in nasal secretions. Studies suggest a person is most likely
      to transmit rhinoviruses in the second to fourth day of infection, when
      the amount of virus in nasal secretions is highest. Researchers also have
      shown that using aspirin to treat colds increases the amount of virus shed
      in nasal secretions, possibly making the cold sufferer more of a hazard to
      others. Prevention Handwashing is the simplest and most effective way to
      keep from getting rhinovirus colds. Not touching the nose or eyes is
      another. Individuals with colds should always sneeze or cough into a
      facial tissue, and promptly throw it away. If possible, one should avoid
      close, prolonged exposure to persons who have colds. Because
      rhinoviruses can survive up to three hours outside the nasal passages on
      inanimate objects and skin, cleaning environmental surfaces with a
      virus-killing disinfectant might help prevent spread of
      infection. A cold vaccine? The development of a vaccine
      that could prevent the common cold has reached an impasse because of the
      discovery of many different cold viruses. Each virus carries its own
      specific antigens, substances that induce the formation of specific
      protective proteins (antibodies) produced by the body. Until ways are
      found to combine many viral antigens in one vaccine, or take advantage of
      the antigenic cross-relationships that exist, prospects for a vaccine are
      dim. Evidence that changes occur in common-cold virus antigens further
      complicate development of a vaccine. Such changes occur in some influenza
      virus antigens and make it necessary to alter the influenza vaccine each
      year. Treatment Only symptomatic treatment is available for
      uncomplicated cases of the common cold: bed rest, plenty of fluids,
      gargling with warm salt water, petroleum jelly for a raw nose, and aspirin
      or acetaminophen to relieve headache or fever. A word of
      caution: several studies have linked the use of aspirin to the
      development of Reye's syndrome in children recovering
      from influenza or chickenpox. Reye's syndrome is a rare but serious
      illness that usually occurs in children between the ages of three and 12
      years. It can affect all organs of the body, but most often injures the
      brain and liver. While most children who survive an episode of Reye's
      syndrome do not suffer any lasting consequences, the illness can lead to
      permanent brain damage or death. The American Academy of Pediatrics
      recommends children and teenagers not be given aspirin or any medications
      containing aspirin when they have any viral illness, particularly
      chickenpox or influenza. Many doctors recommend these medications be used
      for colds in adults only when headache or fever is present. Researchers,
      however, have found that aspirin and acetaminophen can suppress certain
      immune responses and increase nasal stuffiness in
      adults. Nonprescription cold remedies, including decongestants and
      cough suppressants, may relieve some cold symptoms but will not prevent,
      cure, or even shorten the duration of illness. Moreover, most have some
      side effects, such as drowsiness, dizziness, insomnia, or upset stomach,
      and should be taken with care. Nonprescription antihistamines may
      have some effect in relieving inflammatory responses such as runny nose
      and watery eyes that are commonly associated with
      colds. Antibiotics do not kill viruses. These prescription drugs
      should be used only for rare bacterial complications, such as sinusitis or
      ear infections, that can develop as secondary infections. The use of
      antibiotics "just in case" will not prevent secondary bacterial
      infections. Does vitamin C have a role? Many people are
      convinced that taking large quantities of vitamin C will prevent colds or
      relieve symptoms. To test this theory, several large-scale, controlled
      studies involving children and adults have been conducted. To date, no
      conclusive data has shown that large doses of vitamin C prevent colds. The
      vitamin may reduce the severity or duration of symptoms, but there is no
      definitive evidence. Taking vitamin C over long periods of time in
      large amounts may be harmful. Too much vitamin C can cause severe
      diarrhea, a particular danger for elderly people and small children. In
      addition, too much vitamin C distorts results of tests commonly used to
      measure the amount of glucose in urine and blood. Combining oral
      anticoagulant drugs and excessive amounts of vitamin C can produce
      abnormal results in blood-clotting tests. Inhaling steam also has
      been proposed as a treatment of colds on the assumption that increasing
      the temperature inside the nose inhibits rhinovirus replication. Recent
      studies found that this approach had no effect on the symptoms or amount
      of viral shedding in individuals with rhinovirus colds. But steam may
      temporarily relieve symptoms of congestion associated with
      colds. Interferon-alpha has been studied extensively for the
      treatment of the common cold. Investigators have shown interferon, given
      in daily doses by nasal spray, can prevent infection and illness.
      Interferon, however, causes unacceptable side effects such as nosebleeds
      and does not appear useful in treating established colds. Most cold
      researchers are concentrating on other approaches to combatting cold
      viruses. The Outlook Thanks to basic research, scientists know more about
      the rhinovirus than almost any other virus, and have powerful new tools
      for developing antiviral drugs. Although the common cold may never be
      uncommon, further investigations offer the hope of reducing the huge
      burden of this universal problem. Keeping on Top of Your Condition Keeping in tune with your disease or condition not only makes treatment less intimidating but also increases its chance of success, and has been shown to lower a patients risk of complications.  As well, as an informed patient, you are better able to discuss your condition and treatment options with your physician. A new service available to patients provides a convenient means of staying informed, and ensures that the information is both reliable and accurate.  If you wish to find out more about HealthNewsflash's innovative service, take the tour . About Us Contact Us SiteMap Medical Question Directories All information on this web site is for general knowledge only and is not intended to function as, or substitute, professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Never disregard, or delay in seeking, professional medical advice because of something you have read on or through this web site.  Use of the HealthNewsflash online service is subject to our Disclaimer . Cop