
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 01:12:58 GMT
Connection: close

Buy Pure Encapsulations Cranberry / d-Mannose, Cranberry Juice Extract with d Mannose for Urinary Tract Support - The Way Up Category - Gastrointestinal Support/Digestive Aids Home The Way Up eBook Catalog Quick Order Search Ask Dr. Slagle Newsletters Bookstore Health Links Cranberry/d-Mannose Cranberry/d-Mannose combines cranberry extract made from 100% cranberry fruit solids and d-mannose for dual support of urinary tract comfort. The cranberry extract in Cranberry/d-Mannose does not add the refined sugar found in cranberry juice or juice cocktails, which can encourage the growth of unfriendly bacteria. Cranberry is widely used to support the health of the urinary tract. Research has shown that it has an anti-adhesion factor that prevents bacteria such as E Coli (the most common cause of urinary tract infections) from attaching to the walls of the urinary tract.. d-Mannose is a powerful maintainer of a healthy mucosal lining in the urinary tract. It is found naturally on the cell membrane wall in the urinary tract and when taken orally, binds to flora, supporting urinary tract health. d-Mannose is a simple sugar that occurs naturally in some plants, including cranberries. In the bladder, d-Mannose can adhere to undesirable foreign particles, preventing them from sticking to the lining of the bladder. These particles can then be flushed away during urination. Since the body uses only small amounts of d-Mannose, it does not interfere with blood sugar regulation. A randomized double blind placebo-controlled trial performed at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, MA, which involved over 150 female volunteers reported positive support for a healthy urinary tract after administration of a cranberry beverage. Cranberry/d-Mannose also contains Vitamin C a highly effective antioxidant. This is an important preventive supplement for those prone to recurrent urinary tract infections. DIRECTIONS: 2-6 capsules daily, in divided doses, with or between meals. Please see our full line of doctor selected Alternative Health Products Further information is available in Dr Priscilla Slagle's medical issue Newsletters For more guidance in how to use nutritional supplementation, go to Dr Slagle's individual website . Once there, enter the Library of Symptoms and Health conditions with: user name: psmdguest password: drslaglep Other Ingredients: Vegetable capsule These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S.Food & Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Cranberry/d-Mannose 180 caps $  65.80 NUTRITION FACTS Cranberry/d-Mannose 180 caps Element Amount %Daily Allowance% Serving Size cranberry juice extract (fruit) d-mannose vitamin C (as ascorbyl palmitate) 100mg 450mg 11mg 1 vegie cap Disclaimer | Privacy Statement | Site Map All text copyright 1998-2011 by Dr. Priscilla Slagle We can be reached by E-Mail or Phone: E-Mail: t