
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 02:18:46 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Feverfew - eMedicinal.com Home Herb Database Feverfew Monday, February 13, 2012 Home Forum Herbal Links Newsletter Search About Us Contact Us Store Herb Database Herb Database Disease Database Herbal Forumulas Herbal Articles Herb & Medicinal Resources Search eMedicinal.com Advanced Search Herb Database Browse the Herb Database A thru A Wei B thru Butternut C thru Cypress Powder D thru Dyeberry E thru Eye Root F thru Fragrant Water Lily G thru Gum Plant H thru Hyssop I thru Ivory Plum J thru Juniper K thru K'u-tou L thru Lu-ts'ao M thru Myrtle N thru Nosebleed O thru Oxadoddy P thru Pyrethrum Q thru Quick-set R thru Rutland S thru Sycamore T thru Tzu-mo-lo U thru Uva Ursi V thru Virgin's Bower W thru Wycopy X thru Xiao-hue-xiang Y thru Yu-zhu Z thru Zanzibar Pepper Top 10 Herbs  Searched For 1. Jordan Almond 2. Linden Flower 3. Saw Palmetto 4. Aloe Vera 5. Ginseng 6. Black Cohosh 7. Bilberry 8. Feverfew 9. He shou wu 10. St. John's Wort Herbs From Home! Sign up for our herbal newsletter! Name: Email: Send Page To a Friend! Share the wealth of herbal knowledge! Please click below to send this page to your friends! Feverfew Chrysanthemum Parthenium L. Compositae Composite family Common Names Parts Usually Used Plant(s) & Culture Where Found Medicinal Properties Biochemical Information Legends, Myths and Stories Uses Formulas or Dosages Warning Common Names Bachelor's 
            button Bride's 
            button Compositae Featherfew Featherfoil Febrifuge 
            plant Feverfew Pyrethrum Wild 
            Chamomile Back to Top Parts Usually Used Bark, dried flowers, and leaves. Back to Top Description of Plant(s) and Culture The round, leafy branching stem bears alternate, bipinnate leaves 
            (divided into ovate divisions) with ovate, hoary-green leaflets. The 
            flowers have yellow 1 inch disks and from 10-20 white, toothed rays. Flowers are daisy-like but smaller, with a large 
            disk and stubby white rays. The yellow center of the flower is distinguished 
            from the conical chamomiles by its flatness. The leaves are tender, 
            diversely torn and jagged, and nicks on the edges. They make their 
            appearance in corymbose heads in June and July. Plants grow 1-3 
            feet tall. (Flowers resemble Chamomile) When parts of the plant are rubbed or crushed they give off a strong, 
            bitter smell and bitter taste. Feverfew is easily started from seed. 
            It can also be propagated by dividing established plants into fairly 
            large pieces in March, or from cuttings taken from young shoots with 
            a heel attached, planted out from October to May. Set plants 1 
            foot apart. Feverfew is not a fussy grower, tolerating some 
            shade, most soils, and dry (but not very moist) conditions. Feverfew 
            plants are easily injured by hoes, so you should hand-weed. Because feverfew freely seeds, it is apt to escape from the garden; 
            cutting off old heads will prevent this. To keep the plant's leafy 
            growth looking neat, cut back hard, to within 1 inch of the base, before the season's active growth starts. Feverfew is 
            very disease-free and has a lifespan of 2-3 years. In 
            hot climates, it benefits greatly from partial shade. Plants to be harvested may be gathered most any time at the peak 
            of their maturity. The technique may require some practice. Feverfew's common name comes from its traditional use to lower body 
            temperature in fevers. Today, it's grown for the profusion of daisylike 
            flowers it bears; it blends well with roses. It is currently being 
            researched as a cure for migraine . Back to Top Where Found This bushy plant is native to southeastern Europe but is now found 
            in North and South America. Feverfew is a perennial plant that is 
            cultivated but is occasionally found wild in waste places and along 
            roadsides and wood-borders from Quebec to Ohio and south to Maryland 
            and Missouri, also in California. Back to Top Medicinal Properties Carminative (gas relief), emmenagogue (promotes menstrual flow), 
            purgative (strong laxative), stimulant, bitter tonic, antipyretic 
            (reduces fever), aperient (mild laxative), anti-inflammatory, vermifuge Back to Top Biochemical Information Essential oil containing camphor, terpene, borneol, various esters 
            and a bitter principle, pyrethrin, tannin, sesquiterpene lactones Back to Top Legends, Myths and Stories There is a legend about feverfew, that this herb saved the life of 
            a person who fell off the famous temple in ancient Greece, the Parthenon. 
            Hence, the name parthenium. One reference is of the opinion that the name feverfew is a corruption 
            of featherfew, referring to the plant's petals. The old fashioned feverfew is generally found in the wild state near 
            very old gardens. The ancient magi ordered "Feverfew to be pulled 
            from the ground with the left hand, and the fevered patient's name 
            must be spoken forth, and the herbalist must not look behind him." Another old superstition held that when it was planted around dwellings 
            it purified the air and warded off disease. The pungent odor is so 
            disliked by bees that branches of it were carried around to hold the 
            bees at a distance. (Wonder if this could benefit the person allergic 
            to bee stings ?) The Greek herbalist Dioscorides is believed to have treated arthritis 
            with this herb. In 1649, Culpeper recommended feverfew for headaches 
            and to strengthen women's wombs. In 1772, another famous herbalist, 
            John Hill, treated headaches but stated "this herb exceeds whatever 
            else is known." In 1985, it was reported that extracts of feverfew inhibited the 
            release of 2 inflammatory substances; serotonin from platelets and 
            prostaglandin from white blood cells. Both are thought to contribute 
            to the onset of migraine attacks and perhaps even to play a role in 
            rheumatoid arthritis. Migraine sufferers may have to wait several months to notice improvement, 
            but the wait is well worth it. Some 80% of all cases have found feverfew 
            a preventive in migraine headaches. Feverfew seems absolutely bug-proof, keeping pests from plants close 
            by. Some people plant in their roses or around the garden for pest 
            control. The yellow-green ferny foliage, masses of small, white, daisy-like 
            flowers, are decorative and they self-sow readily. Some say that feverfew is most effective against fever and colds 
            if it is gathered with the left hand as the name of the patient is 
            spoken aloud and with nary a glance behind. One of the bug killing properties of feverfew is pyrethrin. Back to Top Uses Once in popular use, feverfew has fallen into considerable disuse; 
            even its name no longer seems to fit. It is also hard to find, even 
            at herbal outlets. If you are lucky enough to get it, try the warm 
            infusion for colic , flatulence, 
            eructations, indigestion , flu , colds , fever , ague, freckles, age 
            spots , and alcoholic DTs. A cold extract has a tonic 
            effect . The flowers in particular show a purgative 
            action . Effective remedy against opium taken too liberally. Infusion: Use 1 heaping tsp. of the herb with 1 cup water. Take 1 to 2 cups, as indicated. For 
            DTs, take 15 to 40 drops, as often as required. Relieves headaches , migraines , arthritis , neuritis , neuralgia , indigestion, colds, 
            and muscle tension . Eliminates worms . Stimulates the appetite , 
            increases fluidity of lung an bronchial 
            tube mucus , stimulates uterine contractions, and promotes menses . Back to Top Formulas or Dosages Harvest shortly after flowering. 1-4 leaves chewed per day proven in the past to be effective 
            for some migraine headaches, and is antiseptic. Do not use for migraine 
            resulting from weak, deficiency condition. To combat insects, a tincture made from feverfew mixed with 1/2 
            pint of cold water will keep away the gnats, mosquitoes, and 
            other pests. Feverfew has the power to relieve the pain and swelling 
            caused by the bites of insects and vermin. Bees find the odor and 
            taste of feverfew highly repulsive. Back to Top Warning Do not use for migraine resulting from a weak, deficiency condition. 
            Seek medical advice. May cause dermatitis or allergic reactions. Mouth sores are common. 
            Some people have developed mouth ulcers while taking feverfew. Discontinue 
            use if this occurs. Usually this condition comes from the fresh leaves, 
            try sauteing the leaves first. Patients taking blood thinning drugs should avoid taking feverfew 
            because it can affect the clotting times of the blood. Back to Top Home Forum Herbal Links Newsletter Search About Us Contact Us Product Reviews: Acai Berry Detox | Acai Berry Bliss | Acai Cleanse | Acai Pure | Acai Berry Tropic | Acai Slim | Extreme Acai | Medical Hair Restoration © 1997-2005 eMedicinal.com | Privacy Policy | Caution Disclaimer | Sitemap Sign up for our newsletter or recommend us today! IMPORTANT UPDATE: Lose Up to 25 Pounds in 25 Days with Acai Berry! 3X