Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Mon, 06 Feb 2012 20:16:43 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "804783ece5cc1:441"
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Connection: close

| March of Dimes Your pregnant body Your body will go through major changes during pregnancy. Weight gain, breast changes and aches and pains are common. There are ways to alleviate common discomforts and changes. Backache Backache is one of the most common problems for pregnant women. Nearly half of all women have back pain at some point during pregnancy. There are three types of back pain related to pregnancy: Low-back pain when you stand or sit Pain that is worst in the back of your pelvis and deep in your buttocks Pain in your lower back when you are in bed at night Back pain can be caused by: The strain on the back from carrying the extra weight of pregnancy Changes in posture to offset the extra weight of pregnancy. This shifts your center of gravity forward and puts more strain on the lower back. Strain on the weakened and stretched muscles in the abdomen that support the spine Although some amount of backache is normal, severe back pain is not. It can be a warning sign of infection or complications, especially when a woman also has fever or other symptoms. What you can do You can lessen some of the normal back pain encountered during pregnancy by following these tips: Posture Be aware of your posture. Try to keep your hips pulled forward and your back straight. Don't be a "sway back." Footwear Wear low-heeled shoes with good arch support. Avoid wearing high heels. They can strain your lower back muscles. Lifting Avoid lifting heavy objects. This can put even more strain on your back. If you must pick something up from the floor, squat down, bend at the knees and keep your back straight. Do not bend over from the waist. Carrying Split larger loads into two smaller loads. Holding them in either hand may be easier than carrying one large load. If you must carry a large object, keep it close to your body. Bending and stretching Keep objects you need close by so you don't have to bend or stretch to pick them up. Be careful. It's easy to lose your balance when you are pregnant. Standing Avoid standing for long periods of time, if possible. If you have to stand for an extended period, rest one foot on a stool or box. This will help relieve the strain on your back. Sitting Sit in chairs with good back support. Tuck a small pillow behind your lower back for extra support while sitting. Sleeping A firm mattress provides better back support than a soft one. If your mattress is too soft, a board between the mattress and box spring will make it firmer. Sleep on your side instead of your back. Tuck a pillow between your legs when lying on your side. The pillow will help straighten your spine and give extra support to your back. Support Look for maternity pants that have a wide elastic band to be worn under the curve of your belly. This band will help support the extra weight. Consider using special abdominal-support girdles. They can provide back support and are available in maternity stores. Heat or cold Apply a heating pad set to the lowest temperature, a hot water bottle filled with warm water or a cold compress. To avoid excessive cold or heat, wrap the heating pad, hot water bottle or compress in a towel. Light massage Try gently rubbing or kneading the sore areas of your lower back. Ask your partner or a friend to help. Consider getting a massage designed for pregnant women. Pain relief Medication to treat back pain during pregnancy is usually not a good option. Always check with your health care provider before taking any type of medication. Exercises Certain exercises can help strengthen and stretch your back muscles. They can also improve your posture and strengthen your abdominal muscles for labor and delivery. Talk with your health care provider about which exercises are safe for you and how long you should keep doing them during pregnancy. June 2009 © 2011 March of Dimes Foundation. The March of Dimes is a non-profit 
    organization recognized as ta