
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:10:03 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alzheimer's disease, Alzheimer's dementia All about dementia types of dementia risk factors for dementia causes of dementia symptoms of dementia diagnosis of dementia dementia treatments long term dementia care alcohol-related dementia frontal lobe dementia senile dementia (Alzheimer dementia) early onset dementia AIDS related dementia Alzheimer's disease (Alzheimer dementia) types of Alzheimer's disease Alzheimer dementia stages causes of Alzheimer's disease risk factors for Alzheimer's disease warning signs of Alzheimer's disease symptoms of Alzheimer's disease diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease treatment for Alzheimer's disease Alzheimer's disease medications Alzheimer's disease diet Alzheimer's disease exercise therapy prognosis of Alzheimer's disease vascular dementia vascular dementia types multi-infarct dementia Binswanger's disease causes of vascular dementia vascular dementia risk factors vascular dementia symptoms diagnosis of vascular dementia treatments for vascular dementia lewy body dementia lewy body dementia causes lewy body dementia symptoms diagnosing lewy body dementia treatment of lewy body dementia Pick's disease causes of Pick's disease symptoms of Pick's disease diagnosis of Pick's disease treatment for Pick's disease What is Alzheimer's disease? Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible, progressive disorder in which brain cells (neurons) deteriorate, resulting in the loss of cognitive functions, primarily memory, judgment and reasoning, movement coordination, and pattern recognition. In advanced stages of the disease, all memory and mental functioning may be lost. A person with Alzheimer's disease has problems with memory, judgment, and thinking, which makes it hard for the person to work or take part in day-to-day life. The death of the nerve cells occurs gradually over a period of years. A person with Alzheimer's disease usually has a gradual decline in mental functions, often beginning with slight memory loss, followed by losses in the ability to maintain employment, to plan and execute familiar tasks, and to reason and exercise judgment. Communication ability, mood, and personality may also be affected. Most people who have Alzheimer's disease die within eight years of their diagnosis, although that interval may be as short as one year or as long as 20 years. Alzheimer's disease is the fourth leading cause of death in adults after heart disease, cancer, and stroke. Between two and four million Americans have Alzheimer's disease ; that number is expected to grow to as many as 14 million by the middle of the 21st century as the population as a whole ages. While a small number of people in their 40s and 50s develop the disease (called early-onset Alzheimer's disease), Alzheimer's disease predominantly affects the elderly. Alzheimer's disease affects about 3% of all people between ages 65 and 74, about 19% of those between 75 and 84, and about 47% of those over 85. Slightly more women than men are affected with ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE, but this may be because women tend to live longer, and so there is a higher proportion of women in the most affected age groups. People with Alzheimer's disease can develop more and more problems as time goes by. Initially, memory loss is the most noticeable, although language difficulty (for example, trouble finding words) is also seen. Poor planning, poor judgement or becoming lost even in familiar settings are all symptoms of the problem. Personality changes can develop over time, along with agitation, depression, irritability, and, rarely, aggressivity. Finally, a person with severe Alzheimer's disease will be unable to talk, unable to sit up, and unable to control bowels or bladder. Understandably, many older people - and their children - fear the development of Alzheimer's disease. More information on dementia (Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, lewy body dementia, Pick's disease) What is dementia? - Dementia is a deterioration of intellectual function and other cognitive skills. Dementia may involve progressive deterioration of thinking, memory, behavior, personality and motor function. What types of dementia are there? - Types of dementia include Alzheimer's dementia, vascular dementias, Parkinson disease, Lewy body dementia, alcohol-related dementia, and Pick disease. What're the risk factors for dementia? - The main risk factor for dementia is age. People who have sustained serious head injuries through boxing are prone to dementia pugilistica. What causes dementia? - Dementia is caused by degeneration in the cerebral cortex including death of brain cells, conditions that impair the vascular or neurologic structures of the brain. What're the symptoms of dementia? - The early symptom of dementia is diminished short-term memory. Patients with severe dementia cannot perform activities of daily living. How is dementia diagnosed? - Diagnosis of dementia begins with a thorough physical exam and complete medical history, and followed by information-concentration-orientation test of Blessed et al. and the mini-mental state exam of Folstein et al. What's the treatment for dementia? - The goal of treatment is to control the symptoms of dementia. Treatment of dementia begins with treatment of the underlying disease. What's the long term dementia care? - Long-term dementia care may be needed for some patients with dementia. Possible options include in-home care, boarding homes, adult day care, and convalescent homes. What's alcohol-related dementia? - Alcohol related dementia is a form of dementia related to the excessive drinking of alcohol. Alcohol abuse can lead to several forms of dementia. What's frontal lobe dementia? - Frontal lobe dementia is a set of degenerative diseases producing many of the same symptoms as vascular dementia. The frontal lobe governs people's mood and behaviour. What's senile dementia? - Senile dementia is the mental deterioration (loss of intellectual ability) that is associated with old age. Senile dementia is often used when referring to Alzheimer's disease. What's early onset dementia? - Early onset dementia is a term that covers a range of diseases affecting memory and thinking in people under the age of 65. What's AIDS related dementia? - HIV associated dementia (HAD) is comprised of a spectrum of conditions from the mild HIV-1 motor cognitive-motor disorder to severe and debilitating AIDS dementia. What's Alzheimer's disease? - Alzheimer's disease is a form of degenerative brain disease resulting in progressive mental deterioration with disorientation, memory disturbance and confusion. What types of Alzheimer's disease are there? - Types of Alzheimer's disease include early onset Alzheimer's, late-onset Alzheimer's, and familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). What're the stages of Alzheimer's disease? - Stages of Alzheimer's disease include no cognitive impairment, mild cognitive decline, moderate cognitive decline, moderately severe cognitive decline... What causes Alzheimer's disease? - The ultimate cause or causes of Alzheimer's disease are still unknown, there are several risk factors that increase a person's likelihood of developing the disease. What're the risk factors for Alzheimer's disease? - The risk for Alzheimer's disease increases with age. People with a family history of Alzheimer's have a greater risk. What're the warning signs of Alzheimer's disease? - The warning signs of Alzheimer's disease include memory loss, difficulty performing familiar tasks, problems with language, poor or decreased judgment. What're the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease? - The symptoms of Alzheimer's disease include memory lapses, perform routine tasks, loss of judgment, and personality or behavior changes. How is Alzheimer's disease diagnosed? - Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is complex. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease begins with a thorough physical exam and complete medical history. What's the treatment for Alzheimer's disease? - Some treatments for Alzheimer's disease that can be used to help manage and ease the symptoms. Medications help alleviate the symptoms of depression, anxiety, and delusions. What medications treat Alzheimer's disease? - Four medications, tacrine, donepezil, rivastigmine tartrate and galantamine, are used to improve intellectual function in some patients with Alzheimer's disease. What's the dietary therapy for Alzheimer's disease? - Dietary therapy for Alzheimer's disease involves appropriate intake of darkly colored fruits and vegetables, soy, alcohol, folate and vitamin B12. What's the exercise therapy for Alzheimer's disease? - Aerobic exercise is very important for helping to protect against mental decline during aging due to Alzheimer's disease. What's the prognosis of Alzheimer's disease? - A person with Alzheimer's disease lives an average of eight years and as many as 20 years or more from the onset of symptoms. What's vascular dementia? - Vascular dementia is a common form of dementia in older persons that is due to cerebrovascular disease, usually with stepwise deterioration. What types of vascular dementia are there? - There are a number of different types of vascular dementia. Two of the most common are multi-infarct dementia, binswanger's disease. What's multi-infarct dementia? - Multi-infarct dementia is the most common form of vascular dementia. Multi-infarct dementia is associated with atherosclerosis. What is Binswanger's disease? - Binswanger's disease is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by injuries to the blood vessels supplying the deep white-matter of the brain. What causes vascular dementia? - Vascular dementia can be caused in several different ways. Most commonly there is blockage of small blood vessels (arteries) deep within the brain. What're risk factors for vascular dementia? - The risk factors for vascular dementia are high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes and heart rhythm problems. What're the symptoms of vascular dementia? - Symptoms of vascular dementia include memory loss, difficulty doing usual daily activities, and a tendency to wander. How is vascular dementia diagnosed? - Vascular dementia is diagnosed based on history, symptoms, signs, and tests, and by ruling out other causes of dementia. What's the treatment for vascular dementia? - Treatment of vascular dementia is aimed at reducing the risk factors including stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol and heart disease. What's lewy body dementia? - Lewy body dementia is a progressive cause of dementia characterised by both cognitive problems and motor impairments. What causes lewy body dementia? - Lewy body dementia is caused by abnormal microscopic deposits of protein in nerve cells. Lewy bodies appear in deteriorating nerve cells. What're the symptoms of lewy body dementia? - Symptoms of lewy body dementia include a gradual loss of mental abilities, including orientation and memory, reasoning and intelligence. How is lewy body dementia diagnosed? - Lewy body dementia is diagnosed by taking a careful history of the pattern of symptoms, and by excluding other possible causes. What's the treatment for lewy body dementia? - There's no specific treatment for lewy body dementia. Treatment is directed at managing the signs and symptoms of the disease. What is Pick's disease? - Pick disease is a brain disorder that causes slowly worsening decline of mental abilities. Pick's disease is a less common type of dementia. What causes Pick's disease? - Pick's disease is a rare disorder similar to senile dementia/Alzheimer's type. Behavioral changes are prominent with loss of inhibition. What're the symptoms of Pick's disease? - The signs and symptoms of Pick's disease include loss of intellectual abilities and changes in behavior and personality. How is Pick's disease diagnosed? - Diagnosis of Pick's disease is based on initial diagnosis on history and symptoms, signs, and tests, and by ruling out other causes of dementia. What's the treatment for Pick's disease? - There is no proven effective treatment for Pick's disease. Monitoring and assistance with self-care may be required. Neurological disorders Mainpage Topics in neurological disorders Autoimmune nervous system diseases Autonomic nervous system diseases Degenerative nervous system diseases Central nervous system diseases Brain diseases Cranial nerve disorders Headaches Dementia Language disorders Perceptual disorders Motor neuron diseases Neurologic manifestations Movement disorders Peripheral nerve disorders Sleep disorders Spinal cord diseases Featured neurological articles Multiple sclerosis Cerebral palsy Migraine headache Cluster headache Alzheimer's disease Stuttering Chronic fatigue syndrome Parkinson's disease Carpal tunnel syndrome Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy Diabetic neuropathy Lower back pain Snoring Sleep apnea Brain tumor Brain cancer Spinal cord tumors Nutrition for neurological disorders MindSoothe for emotional health MindSoothe , a natural herbal remedy, contains a selection of herbs known for their calming and supportive function in maintaining brain and nervous system health, emotional balance and overall wellbeing. Neuro Natural Memory Specifically formulated to help support brain health, Neuro-Natural Memory may help improve memory, concentration levels and reduce the potential for brain and memory function problems. Triple Complex Sleep Tonic Sleep Tonic helps the body relax and produce all the hormones essential for healthy sleep; safe for everyone, including pregnant and nursing women, children, and small babies. All information is intended for reference only. Please consult your physician for accurate medical advices and treatment. Copyright 2005, healt