
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 22:39:05 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.16 OpenSSL/0.9.8m DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Apollo Hospitals:: Request Information Hospitals Company Overview Our Chairman's Profile Management The Apollo Growth Story Quality Anthem Milestones Awards & Accolades Across the healthcare spectrum Hospitals Q2 FY 2012 Earnings Outlook Q2 FY 2012 Results Release Investor Presentation June 2011 INR Investor Presentation June 2011 USD Placement Document Financial Reports Shareholding Pattern Annual Reports Education & Research Courses Web Broadcasts Research Community Initiatives Telemedicine DISHA SAHI Cure Disaster Relief Programmes SACHi BHB Campaign REACH CSR at Apollo Hospitals News Events Interviews Watch Our Videos Media Contacts Careers Current Openings Apollo Hospital Contact Us Home Patient Care Cutting Edge Medical Care Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery The Apollo Hospitals, Center for Gastroenterology & Hepatology performs Bariatric surgery as a specialized treatment for obesity. Bariatric surgery is performed if other forms of fat reduction methods like exercise or diet control do not produce the desired results. Bariatric surgery involves reducing the size of the stomach, leading to lesser food intake and gradual weight loss What is morbid obesity? Obesity is a condition in which one has too much body fat (adipose tissue). Obesity is determined by calculating the Body Mass Index (BMI), which measures weight for height and is stated in numbers. BMI = Weight (in kg) Height (in m2) BMI Status Below 18.5 Underweight 18.5 - 24.9 Normal 25 - 29.9 Overweight 30 - 34.9 Obese 35 - 39.9 Severe Obesity > 40 Morbid Obesity > 50 Super morbid Obesity Health Hazards of Morbid Obesity Severe obesity damages the body by its mechanical, metabolic and physiological adverse effects on normal body functioning. These "co-morbidities" affect nearly every organ in the body in some way, and produce serious secondary illnesses, which may also be life threatening. The cumulative effect of these co-morbidities can interfere with a normal and productive life and can shorten life as well. The risk of developing these medical problems is proportional to the degree of obesity. People who are obese do not live for as long as those who are not obese and the earlier a person become obese; the more years of life are lost. Heart Disease- Severely obese persons are approximately 6 times as likely to develop heart disease as those who are of normal weight. Heart disease is the leading cause of death today and obese persons tend to develop it earlier in life. High Blood Pressure- Hypertension is much more common in obese persons and leads to development of heart disease, and damage to the blood vessels throughout the body, causing susceptibility to strokes, kidney damage, and hardening of the arteries. Diabetes Mellitus- Overweight persons are 40 times as likely to develop Type 2, Adult-onset diabetes. Once diabetes occurs, it becomes even harder to lose weight, because of hormone changes which causes higher fat accumulation in the body. Sleep Apnea Syndrome- Sleep apnea – the stoppage of breathing during sleep – is commonly caused in the obese, by compression of the neck, closing the air passage to the lungs. Respiratory Insufficiency Heartburn - Reflux Disease and Reflux Nocturnal Aspiration Asthma and Bronchitis Gallbladder Disease -Gallbladder disease occurs more frequently in the obese, in part due to repeated efforts at dieting, which predispose one to this problem. Stress Urinary Incontinence. Degenerative Disease of Lumbo-Sacral Spine (Backbone) Degenerative Arthritis of weight bearing joints like knee and hip Venous Stasis Disease in the lower extremities. Emotional/Psychological Illness- Extremely overweight persons face constant challenges to their emotions: repeated failure with dieting, disapproval from family and friends, and remarks from strangers. They often experience discrimination at work. Stereotypes of obese people – such as that they are lazy – may result in lower self esteem and poor body image. Social Effects- Severely obese persons suffer inability to qualify for many types of employment and there tends to be a higher rate of unemployment among them. There is a general societal belief that obesity is a consequence of a lack of self-discipline, or moral weakness. Surgical options for treating Morbid Obesity The morbidly obese have to seriously consider surgery for reducing weight to avoid its ill effects. Surgery for Morbid Obesity is for the following situations: The person's BMI is over 40, or is 35 or higher and a serious medical problem (hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, joint problems, reflux) that is made worse by obesity is present If it has not been possible to reduce or maintain weight under a medically supervised program If the person has been obese for at least 5 years Two surgical treatments are recommended for obesity: Gastric Banding and Gastric Bypass. Gastric Banding operations reduce the functional size of the stomach (with a gastric band, silastic ring or staples). This restricts the amount of food one can eat at one meal. By reduction of calorie intake, weight loss is induced. Gastric Bypass procedures go further. This type of surgery helps reduce the amount of eaten food that can be absorbed in the digestive tract. So, not only does one consume less calories, but there is also less absorption of calories. This is why gastric bypass surgery tends to produce greater weight loss than other bariatric operations. Patient Care Centers of Excellence Cutting Edge Medical Care International Patients Request Information Refer a Patient Pay online Give your feedback Value Added Services Locations Clinical Specialities International Patients Cutting Edge medical care Pay online Find a Doctor Refer a Patient Clinical Specialities International Patients Cutting Edge medical care Pay online Find a Doctor Refer a Patient Choose one of the following ways to search for Apollo Hospitals physicians. By Name By Location By Specialty Dr. Select Location Ahmedabad Aragonda Bangalore Bhubaneswar Bilaspur Chennai Delhi Hyderabad Kakinada Kolkata Madurai Mauritius Mysore Noida Pune vishakapatnam Select Specialty Anesthesia Bone Marrow Transplant Breast Surgery Cardiac Anesthesia Cardio Thoracic Surgery Cardiology Cell Therapy Clinical Biochemistry Clinical Psychology Cosmetic Surgery Critical Care Dentistry Dermatology Dermatology & Cosmetology Diabetology Emergency Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Endocrinology & Diabetes ENT ENT and Head & Neck Surgery Faciomaxillary Surgery & Dentistry Family Medicine Fetal Medicine Gastroenterology General Medicine General Surgery Genetics Hematology Hematopathology Hepatobiliary Surgery Hepatobiliary Surgery & Pancreatic Surgery Histopathology Infectious Diseases Liver Transplant & Hepatobiliary Surgery Maxillo-Facial Surgery Medical Oncology Medical Oncology & Hematology Microbiology Neonatology Nephrology Neuro & Spine Surgery Neurology Neurophysiology Neurosurgery Nuclear Medicine Obstetrics & Gynecology Oncology Ophthalmology Orthodontics Orthopedics Oto - Rhino Laryngology Pathology Pediatric Anesthesia Pediatric Cardio Thoracic Surgery Pediatric Cardiology Pediatric Critical Care Pediatric Dentistry Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric ENT Pediatric Hematology & Oncology Pediatric Intensive Care Pediatric Nephrology Pediatric Neurology Pediatric surgery Pediatrics Pediatrics & Neonatalogy Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Plastic Surgery Plastic Surgery & Cosmetic Surgery Plastic Surgery & Reconstructive Surgery Preventive Medicine Psychiatry Pulmonology Radiodiagnosis Radiology Reproductive Medicine Rheumatology Sexual Medicine Sleep Medicine Speech Therapy Spine Surgery Surgical Gastroenterology, Hepatobiliary &  Pancreatic Surgery Surgical Oncology Urology Vascular Surgery Group Brands : Apollo Clinics Apollo Pharmacy Apollo Munich Health Insurance Apollo Global Projects Consultancy The Cradle Apollo Life Apollo Healthstreet Specialities: Heart Orthopedics Spine Cancer Care Gastroenterology Neurosciences Nephrology & Urology Critical Care Preventive Health Care Alliances : AIG International Group American Life Insurance Company Vanbreda International SOS Seven Corners Companion Global Health Care Emergency Assistance Japan GMC Services International Claims Service Prestige International About Apollo Company Overview Our Chairman's Profile Management The Apollo growth story Quality Anthem Milestones Awards & Accolades Across the healthcare spectrum Patient Care Centers of Excellence Cutting Edge Medical Care International Patients Find a Doctor Request Information Refer a Patient Pay Online Give Your Feedback Hospitals Hospitals in India International Hospitals Managed Hospitals Request Information Investor Relations Financial Reports Share Holding Pattern Annual Reports Q2 FY 2012 Earnings Outlook Q2 FY 2012 Results Release Investor Presentation June 2011 INR Investor Presentation June 2011 USD Placement Document News & Media News Events Interviews Watch Our Videos Media Contacts Careers Current Openings Contact Us Find a Doctor Face Book Twitter You Tube Our Share Price APOLLOHOSP Date: Feb  10, 2012 BSE: Closing : 623.40 NSE: Closing : 623.30 Connect with us © 2010 Apollo Hospitals