
Cinnamon improves glucose and lipids of people with type 2 diabetes. | Dr Eliaz Enter search term Home Join us: YouTube Facebook Twitter RSS Dr. Isaac Eliaz: Your Guide to Wellness Meet Dr. Eliaz Educator & Researcher Integrative Practitioner Health Network Practitioners Cheri Quincy, D.O. Elaine Weil, N.P., C.N.C Geovanni Espinosa, N.D., L.Ac. Jay H. Callender L.Ac., MS, Dipl. OM. Patient Stories Surviving Breast Cancer: Bonnie Bell’s Story Surviving Prostate Cancer: Charlie Rice’s Story Surviving: Andy Aubin’s Story Affiliates & Partners Wellness Blog Connect with Dr. Eliaz Professional Resume Recent Speaking Engagements Recommended Products Breast Health Digestive Health Heart Health Medicinal Mushrooms Metabolic Balance Modified Citrus Pectin Natural Chelation & Detoxification Organic Medicinal Mushrooms Prostate Formula Tibetan Formula Health Solutions Ask Dr. Eliaz Dr. Eliaz Recommends By Condition For Breast Health For Cardiovascular Health For Cellular Health For Chelation & Detoxification For Digestive Health For Immune Support For Metabolic Balance For Prostate Health By Treatment Acupuncture Homeopathy Infrared Heat Therapy Jin Shin Jyutsu Lymphatic Treatments Nutritional IV Therapy Osteopathy Traditional Chinese Medicine Diet & Nutrition General Diet Recommendations Seasonal Spring Cleanse Protocol The Importance of an Alkalizing Diet For Lifestyle Meditation and Healing Power of Positive Affirmations Wellness Guides Breast Cancer – Integrative Solutions Children’s Health – Integrative Approaches Diabetes & Metabolic Balance Modified Citrus Pectin: From Citrus Fruit to Cancer Fighter Natural Cold and Flu Solutions Natural Detoxification Overcoming Heart Disease Prostate Cancer – Integrative Solutions The Drug-Free Path to Healthy Digestion The Healing Power of Medicinal Mushrooms Research Library Articles & Abstracts Free Newsletter Health Conditions Online Resources Multimedia Library Photo Gallery Video Library Webinars News & Events Latest Health News Press Room Events & Seminars Press Releases Wellness Blog Recent Speaking Engagements Contact Dr. Eliaz Subscribe to our FREE Better Health Newsletter! Cinnamon improves glucose and lipids of people with type 2 diabetes. Posted on April 25, 2011 by DrEliaz.org Staff Authors Khan A, Safdar M, Ali Khan MM, Khattak KN, Anderson RA. – Department of Human Nutrition, NWFP Agricultural University, Peshawar, Pakistan. Publication Diabetes Care. 2003 Dec;26(12):3215-8. Abstract OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine whether cinnamon improves blood glucose, triglyceride, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol levels in people with type 2 diabetes. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 60 people with type 2 diabetes, 30 men and 30 women aged 52.2 +/- 6.32 years, were divided randomly into six groups. Groups 1, 2, and 3 consumed 1, 3, or 6 g of cinnamon daily, respectively, and groups 4, 5, and 6 were given placebo capsules corresponding to the number of capsules consumed for the three levels of cinnamon. The cinnamon was consumed for 40 days followed by a 20-day washout period. RESULTS: After 40 days, all three levels of cinnamon reduced the mean fasting serum glucose (18-29%), triglyceride (23-30%), LDL cholesterol (7-27%), and total cholesterol (12-26%) levels; no significant changes were noted in the placebo groups. Changes in HDL cholesterol were not significant. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study demonstrate that intake of 1, 3, or 6 g of cinnamon per day reduces serum glucose, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol, and total cholesterol in people with type 2 diabetes and suggest that the inclusion of cinnamon in the diet of people with type 2 diabetes will reduce risk factors associated with diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Dr. Eliaz’s Formulas Specialized, scientifically researched health supplements to support your journey to wellness Learn more about Dr. Eliaz’s unique formulations Get Our Free Better Health Newsletter! Get the latest health news and recommendations from Dr. Eliaz. Sign up for FREE below! Meet Dr. Eliaz Educator & Researcher Integrative Practitioner Health Network Wellness Blog Connect with Dr. Eliaz Professional Resume Recommended Products Breast Health Digestive Health Heart Health Medicinal Mushrooms Metabolic Balance Modified Citrus Pectin Natural Chelation & Detoxification Organic Medicinal Mushrooms Prostate Formula Tibetan Formula Health Solutions Ask Dr. Eliaz Dr. Eliaz Recommends Wellness Guides Breast Cancer – Integrative Solutions Children’s Health – Integrative Approaches Diabetes & Metabolic Balance Modified Citrus Pectin: From Citrus Fruit to Cancer Fighter Natural Cold and Flu Solutions Natural Detoxification Overcoming Heart Disease Prostate Cancer – Integrative Solutions The Drug-Free Path to Healthy Digestion The Healing Power of Medicinal Mushrooms Research Library Articles & Abstracts Free Newsletter Health Conditions Online Resources Multimedia Library Photo Gallery Video Library Webinars News & Events Latest Health News Press Room Events & Seminars Press Releases Wellness Blog Recent Speaking Engagements Contact Dr. Eliaz This website is provided for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for the advice provided by your physician or other healthcare professional. You should not use the information on this website for diagnosing or treating a health problem or disease, prescribing any medication or other treatment, or discontinuing any medication or treatment recommended by your healthcare provider. ©2011 www.dreliaz.org. All rights rese