
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 13:12:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Snail Serum and Aloe Vera: Do you Choose Organic or Herbal Treatments? Contact Us Order Testimonials Exfoliation & Scar Removal FAQ Ingredients Keloid Scar Treatment Snail Serum and Aloe Vera: Do you Choose Organic or Herbal Treatments? by Lisel Torgerson When you decide to leave the synthetic and chemical skincare products behind you is when your real skin treatment will begin. Natural skin care treatments have entered the beauty industry with a storm leaving pleased customers everywhere. Who knew that the most effective skin care ingredients were found in nature? Let's find out more about Aloe Vera and Snail Secretion. It is general knowledge that Aloe Vera is a component with curative properties for our wellbeing. The herb; Aloe Vera has in fact been around for thousands of years, but many underestimate how great it can be for our skin. Aloe Vera has been used to treat and cure wounds, decrease inflammation, relief eczema and keep the skin's elasticity. Another component that is not that well known, yet is a very effective curative component gathered from the animal kingdom, is Snail Serum. The shy garden snail has been used to heal just about every skin problem we can think of. Keratosis Pilaris, Rosacea, Acne, Wrinkles, Age spots, Psoriasis and Keloid scars are some of the skin problems cured with this incredible ingredient. Snail serum: New Natural Skin Care There is scientific proof about the discovery of the mysterious land snail Cryptomphalus Aspersa also known by zoologists as Helix Aspersa Muller. It was revealed that this small mollusk had properties to renew its own skin. The regenerating method was activated anytime the snail suffered from stress. Scientists have tried a number of times to mimic the complex formula that snails produce, but not even the most sophisticated biochemical laboratory can replicate this serum. The main goal of the snail is to hydrate, protect and cure any injury caused by foreign factors, which is what evolution has developed. The great news is that snails and humans have similar skin components. This means that if the secretion works for snails, it also works for our skin. This is why this component is the best natural skin care treatment for us. Aloe Vera: What's the Benefit? The Aloe Vera plant is classified by experts as an herbal bitter. Right under the Aloe Vera Leaf, we can find the anthraquinones also known as the bitter parts of the plant. The benefits of the Aloe Vera plant are supported through scientific research as well as ancient writings. The Aloe Vera plant has five natural anti-inflammatory agents to ease pain sensations, reverse scarring and speed healing. These five agents are frequently used in Aloe Vera balms. Aloe Vera has also an anti-aging effect and you can also drink a liquid form of the plant to improve your digestion in a positive way. The ultimate natural skin treatment is called BIOSKINCARE , a potent product that contains snail secretion to get rid of and treat your skin concerns. It is also a natural acne treatment that will control your condition within two weeks, which is why you have to try these natural alternatives. Published March 25th, 2009 Filed in Beauty View All Articles Disclaimer: The information on this site and our products are not an alternative to the advice of a medical practitioner. Please consult a physician if you have a medical condition © BIOSKINREPAIR.com -  1802 North Carson Street, Suite 108, Carson City, NV 89701, USA. 1-7029470567 - US & Canada Toll Free: 1-866-246-7546 = 1-866-BIO-SKIN Keloid Re