Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=200
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Omega-3 First - 3 Pack Special Now! Free Shipping on all Orders over $150!! Omega-3 First - 3 Pack Special Ultra Potent, Ultra Pure Omega-3 First by Doctors for Nutrition Omega-3 First - 3 Pack Special $115.85 Item Number: DPDN3 Quantity: Omega-3 First by Doctors for Nutrition The Most Potent, Ultra-Pure Omega-3 
Marine Oil - 120 Softgels ( Natural 
Lemon Flavor Softgels ) Ultra Potent, Ultra Pure Omega-3 First by Doctors for Nutrition The Perfect Solution For Every Body! With today’s busy lifestyles, many diets are lacking in the essential Omega-3 
Fatty Acids that can support health maintenance and overall well-being. Omega-3 First is the perfect formula 
for daily supplementation. It is derived from pelagic fish which are harvested 
from the cold, pristine waters of Norway. This product undergoes an exclusive 
purification process that removes mercury, heavy metals, environmental 
pollutants, pesticides and oxidative impurities.  While removing impurities, we 
selectively concentrate EPA/DHA to provide the highest potency source of Omega-3 
Fatty Acids. Thanks to this unique purification process and our selectively concentrated EPA/DHA, 
it is now safe and easy to incorporate the highest potency source of 
biologically active omega-3 lipids in your diet on a daily basis! Research Indicates That Omega-3 Fatty Acids Are Essential To Support Health* OMEGA-3 MAY HELP TO 
PROMOTE* • Cardiovascular Health • Joint Health • Brain Health • Nervous System Health • Inflammatory Disorders • Fetal Development & Growth • Gastrointestinal Health • Immune System OMEGA-3 FIRST SOFTGEL by Doctors for Nutrition • Provides 850 mg of essential Omega-3 Fatty Acids • Pharmaceutical-grade, purity certified, ultra-potent Omega-3 Marine Oil • Contains a natural lemon flavor resulting in higher patient compliance. Read 
What The Experts Say: Essential fatty 
acids are the main structural components of the body's cell membranes; 
therefore, a balanced intake of fatty acids is necessary for healthy cell 
function. Remember that our entire system functions on the basis of an osmotic 
interchange between cells, so healthy cell membranes will allow a greater flow 
of nutrients in and toxins out. The cell is like a tiny factory, taking in raw 
materials from the surrounding fluid and sending out various chemicals. 
Everything going into or coming out of the cell has to pass through the cell's 
outer surface; its membrane. The membrane depends on essential fatty acids to 
remain fluid and flexible. Without them, the membrane becomes stiff and unable 
to do its job. There are numerous health problems associated with EFA 
deficiencies. These include hair loss, eczema-like skin eruptions, 
susceptibility to infections, arthritis-like conditions, liver or kidney 
degeneration, growth retardation and vision or learning problems. Because the 
body cannot manufacture Essential Fatty Acids on its own, it is imperative that 
they are ingested either through food or dietary supplements. Cardiovascular Health - Cholesterol/Triglycerides The American 
Heart Association is recognizing the significant and increasing body of 
scientific evidence that reports how important Omega-3 Fatty Acids are for 
cardiovascular health. Omega-3 Fatty Acids helps the body lower the LDL 
cholesterol which may also result in the benefits of reducing triglycerides. (Hu, 
F.B. JAMA 2002;288(20):2569-2578). Joint 
Health - Osteoarthritis and Joint Pain The data 
presented herein show consistent and reproducible beneficial effects of Omega-3 
(N-3) Fatty Acids on bone metabolism and bone/joint diseases. Bruce A. Watkins, 
Yong Li, Hugh E. Lippman and Mark F. Seifert, Experimental Biology and Medicine 
226:485-497 (2001)© 2001 Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine. Brain 
Health - Omega-3 Fatty Acids in Growth, Development and Disease In clinical 
trials Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA) and Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) in the form of 
fish oils along with antirheumatic drugs improve joint pain in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis; have a beneficial effect in patients with ulcerative 
colitis; and in combination with drugs, improve the skin lesions, lower the 
hyperlipidemia from etretinates, and decrease the toxicity of cyclosporin in 
patients with psoriasis. In various animal models Omega-3 Fatty Acids decrease 
the number and size of tumors and increase the time elapsed before appearance of 
tumors. Studies with nonhuman primates and human newborns indicate that DHA is 
essential for the normal functional development of the retina and brain, 
particularly in premature infants. Center for Genetics, Nutrition and Health, 
Washington, DC 20009., Am J Clin Nutr. 1992 Mar;55(3):760-1. Immune 
System - Omega-3 Fatty Acids in Inflammation and Autoimmune Diseases There have been 
a number of clinical trials assessing the benefits of dietary supplementation 
with fish oils in several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases in humans, 
including rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, 
lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis and migraine headaches. Many of the 
placebo-controlled trials of fish oil in chronic inflammatory diseases reveal 
significant benefit, including decreased disease activity and a lowered use of 
anti inflammatory drugs. Artemis P. Simopoulos, MD, FACN, Journal of the 
American College of Nutrition, Vol. 21, No. 6, 495-505 (2002). Neurobehavioral Aspects of Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Therapeutic Value in Major 
Depression Limited clinical data, combined with 
rapidly growing support of laboratory and epidemiological studies, suggest 
Omega-3 Fatty Acids may play a role in the prevention and management of 
depression. Alan Logan, ND, Alternative Medicine Review, Volume 8, Number 4, 
2003. Warning: Pregnant or 
lactating women should consult with their physician prior to using this dietary 
supplement. Ingredients: Ultra-Pure Marine Oil (from deep 
sea anchovies and sardines), Capsule (gelatin, glycerin & purified water), 
Natural Lemon Flavor, Proprietary Antioxidant Blend (consisting of Rosemary 
Extract, Ascorbyl Palmitate and Natural Tocopherols). -Keep out of reach of children. -Protect from heat, light & moisture. -Do not use of seal is broken. -Store at room temperature. *These statements have not 
been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease Order Information Item Number DPDN3 Price $115.85 Quantity: Other Images All Prices in US Dollars Coral Calcium Supreme, Ambassador Venture LLC, Holland, PA 18966 NOTE: It appears your browser does not support scripting (javascript) . Scripting is required to use this site. Please ensure scripting is enabled in your browser before continuing.  If you have questions about enabling scripting on your 