< 0.05). Grape seed extract, high in proanthocyanidins, positively affected the in vitro demineralization and/or remineralization processes of artificial root caries lesions, suggesting its potential as a promising natural agent for noninvasive root caries therapy. Raisins represent a healthy alternative to the commonly consumed sugary snack foods. Tags: Vitamin B6 deficiency and anemia in pregnancy. January 28, 2010 by Teresa Koby Filed under All , Herbs , Nutrients , Science Leave a Comment The following review article shows the importance of B6 levels and the role that this vitamin plays in anemia during pregnancy. Iron deficiency is the most common cause of anemia in pregnancy. Pregnant women with anemia are, in general, exclusively treated with iron supplementation. We observed that several pregnant women with anemia who were nonresponsive to iron supplementation also had vitamin B6 deficiency, and that anemia in these cases improved with the administration of vitamin B6 . Our prospective study in healthy pregnant women showed that blood levels of iron, ferritin and vitamin B6, in particular, fell to the lower limit of the nonpregnant reference range by the third trimester. We conclude that it is important to take into account the deficiency of vitamin B6 besides iron in the evaluation of anemia during pregnancy.European Journal of Clinical Nutrition advance online publication, 18 November 2009; doi:10.1038/ejcn.2009.125. PMID: 19920848 [PubMed - as supplied by publisher] Tags: Comparison of antioxidant potency of commonly consumed polyphenol-rich beverages in the United States. January 6, 2010 by Christine Williams Filed under All , Herbs , Nutrients , Science , Top Stories Leave a Comment The latest in the juice market is the acai berry.  This fruit has made its way to the mainstream population with  exposure on the news and shows such as Oprah.  It has been touted as the new wonder fruit with antioxidant potency greater than blueberry or pomegranate.  So is this fruit all it is cracked up to be? When reviewing research on the potency of the acai berry there where many different studies showing different opinions on where the acai berry stands on the antioxidant spectrum.  But one thing is for sure, it is high in antioxidants.  The study listed below tested many different fruits/beverages for the antioxidant content and the winner was…..pomegranate. A number of different beverage products claim to have antioxidant potency due to their perceived high content of polyphenols. Basic and applied research indicates that pomegranate juice (PJ), produced from the Wonderful variety of Punica granatum fruits, has strong antioxidant activity and related health benefits. Although consumers are familiar with the concept of free radicals and antioxidants, they are often misled by claims of superior antioxidant activity of different beverages, which are usually based only on testing of a limited spectrum of antioxidant activities. There is no available direct comparison of PJ’s antioxidant activity to those of other widely available polyphenol-rich beverage products using a comprehensive variety of antioxidant tests. The present study applied (1) four tests of antioxidant potency [Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC), total oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC), free radical scavenging capacity by 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP)]; (2) a test of antioxidant functionality, that is, inhibition of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation by peroxides and malondialdehyde methods; and (3) evaluation of the total polyphenol content [by gallic acid equivalents (GAEs)] of polyphenol-rich beverages in the marketplace. The beverages included several different brands as follows: apple juice (3), açaí juice (3), black cherry juice (3), blueberry juice (3), cranberry juice (3), Concord grape juice (3), orange juice (3), red wines (3), iced tea beverages (10) [black tea (3), green tea (4), white tea (3)], and a major PJ available in the U.S. market. An overall antioxidant potency composite index was calculated by assigning each test equal weight. PJ had the greatest antioxidant potency composite index among the beverages tested and was at least 20% greater than any of the other beverages tested. Antioxidant potency, ability to inhibit LDL oxidation, and total polyphenol content were consistent in classifying the antioxidant capacity of the polyphenol-rich beverages in the following order: PJ>red wine>Concord grape juice>blueberry juice>black cherry juice, açaí juice, cranberry juice>orange juice, iced tea beverages, apple juice. Although in vitro antioxidant potency does not prove in vivo biological activity, there is also consistent clinical evidence of antioxidant potency for the most potent beverages including both PJ and red wine. J Agric Food Chem. 2008 Feb 27;56(4):1415-22. Epub 2008 Jan 26. Tags: Effect of honey, dextromethorphan, and no treatment on nocturnal cough and sleep quality for coughing children and their parents. December 16, 2009 by Christine Williams Filed under All , Herbs , Nutrients , People , Science Leave a Comment Over the last few years there has been many warnings about the use of cough suppressants with children. Honey is a safe and effective way to help a child, over the age of one, with an upper respiratory infection especially during the night when a cough can worsen. OBJECTIVES: To compare the effects of a single nocturnal dose of buckwheat honey or honey-flavored dextromethorphan (DM) with no treatment on nocturnal cough and sleep difficulty associated with childhood upper respiratory tract infections. DESIGN: A survey was administered to parents on 2 consecutive days, first on the day of presentation when no medication had been given the prior evening and then the next day when honey, honey-flavored DM, or no treatment had been given prior to bedtime according to a partially double-blinded randomization scheme. SETTING: A single, outpatient, general pediatric practice. PARTICIPANTS: One hundred five children aged 2 to 18 years with upper respiratory tract infections, nocturnal symptoms, and illness duration of 7 days or less. INTERVENTION: A single dose of buckwheat honey, honey-flavored DM, or no treatment administered 30 minutes prior to bedtime. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cough frequency, cough severity, bothersome nature of cough, and child and parent sleep quality. RESULTS: Significant differences in symptom improvement were detected between treatment groups, with honey consistently scoring the best and no treatment scoring the worst. In paired comparisons, honey was significantly superior to no treatment for cough frequency and the combined score, but DM was not better than no treatment for any outcome. Comparison of honey with DM revealed no significant differences. CONCLUSIONS: In a comparison of honey, DM, and no treatment, parents rated honey most favorably for symptomatic relief of their child’s nocturnal cough and sleep difficulty due to upper respiratory tract infection. Honey may be a preferable treatment for the cough and sleep difficulty associated with childhood upper respiratory tract infection. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2007 Dec;161(12):1140-6. Tags: Complementary and alternative medicine therapies to promote healthy moods. November 4, 2009 by Teresa Koby Filed under All , Herbs , Nutrients , Science Leave a Comment The following article shows the importance of a holistic approach in treating depression. Kemper KJ , Shannon S . Pediatrics and Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. kkemper@wfubmc.edu Pediatric mood disorders (unipolar depression and bipolar disorder) are serious, common, persistent, and recurrent medical conditions. Depression is the second leading cause of illness and disability among young people worldwide. A healthy lifestyle and healthy environment are the cornerstones for promoting positive moods. In addition, several complementary therapies, including nutritional supplements, herbs, mind-body therapies, massage, and acupuncture can be helpful. The focus of this article is the fundamental lifestyle approaches and complementary therapies that enhance mental health in young people. Various resources are available to clinicians to help patients and families promote mental health. PMID: 18061783 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE] Tags: A review of treatment of premenstrual syndrome and premenstrual dysphoric disorder. October 14, 2009 by Christine Williams Filed under Nutrients , People , Science Leave a Comment A newer trend in the medical field to help women with  severe PMS or PMDD (premenstrual dysphoric disorder) is the use of pharmaceuticals.  The class of drugs used are antidepressants and SSRI’s.  This study indicates there are other options such as nutrients and balanced diet to help these symptoms. Severe premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and, more recently, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) have been studied extensively over the last 20 years. The defining criteria for diagnosis of the disorders according to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) include at least one moderate to severe mood symptom and one physical symptom for the diagnosis of PMS and by DSM IV criteria a total of 5 symptoms with 1 severe mood symptom for the diagnosis of PMDD. There must be functional impairment attributed to the symptoms. The symptoms must be present for one to two weeks premenstrually with relief by day 4 of menses and should be documented prospectively for at least two cycles using a daily rating form. Nonpharmacologic management with some evidence for efficacy include cognitive behavioral relaxation therapy, aerobic exercise, as well as calcium, magnesium, vitamin B(6) L-tryptophan supplementation or a complex carbohydrate drink. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2003 Aug;28 Suppl 3:39-53. Tags: Vitamin B12, folic acid and mental function in the elderly September 17, 2009 by Teresa Koby Filed under All , Nutrients , Science Leave a Comment The following article gives valuable information on the importance of B12 and folic acid when considering cognitive function in the elderly. Elderly people is a vulnerable population group to specific nutrient deficiencies as vitamin B12 and folic acid, which are closely related to mental functions deterioration, especially of cognitive functions . This study was aimed to measure B12 vitamin and folic acid indicators and to establish relationships to mental function. 53 elderly, older than 60 years, living in a geriatric home were assessed. The dietary intake was evaluated by the direct weighed method, serum B12 vitamin and folic acid by radioimmunoanalysis and mental function by Foltein’s mini-mental test. Dietary intake for Vit B12 was adequate and deficient for folic acid while serum levels were within normal range. Vitamin B12 levels were at marginal or deficiency values in 26,4% of the elderly and folic acid deficiency was present in 43.4%. 49% of the elderly had mental function alterations and B12 vitamin levels were significantly lower in this group. A positive association between age and mental function (elderly below 80 years had lower risk of mental impairment) and between serum B12 and mental function were found. Elderly were at risk of deficiency for both vitamins and age and mental function were associated to this risk. Further evaluation including other nutrients should be performed. PMID: 15782537 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE] Invest Clin. 2005 Mar;46(1):53-63. Tags: « Previous Page — Next Page » eNews & Updates Sign up to receive breaking news as well as receive other site updates! Featured Video Recent Posts Herbal Medicine in Peru New Anti-malarials from Plants Plants Against Liver Cancer Hepatoprotective properties of kombucha tea against TBHP-induced oxidative stress via suppression of mitochondria dependent apoptosis. Flaxseed: a potential source of food, feed and fiber. Categories All Global Herbs HerbSelect Industry Natural Healthcare Nutrients Opinion and Comment People Politics Probiotics Science Sustainability Tea Top Stories Uncategorized Archives December 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 February 2009 May 2008 March 2008 January 2008 February 2007 August 2006 Blogroll Home Admin Register Log in WordPress Advertisement Copyright © 2