
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 04 May 2012 15:50:08 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: lang=deleted; expires=Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:01 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: jfcookie=deleted; expires=Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:01 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: jfcookie[lang]=en; expires=Sat, 05-May-2012 15:50:08 GMT; path=/
Last-Modified: Fri, 04 May 2012 15:50:08 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Acupuncture Melbourne | Acupuncture Clinic Melbourne Chinese Medicine Skip to content Skip to main navigation Skip to first column Skip to second column Almond Chinese Medicine Centre Fertility Acupuncture Fertility programme Fertility Acupuncture Acupuncture IVF support IVF Acupuncture FAQ Preventing miscarriage Pregnancy Acupuncture Pre-birth Acupuncture Acupuncture Fertility Articles First visit Fees and Rebates Cancellation Policy Meet Our Practitioners Dr. Richard Zeng (Dr.TCM) Tracey Byrne Lauren Lanzoni Kristofer Eberius Christine Veljanoski Dr. Angela Park -Chiropractor Massage Therapy Ringwood Chiropractic Contact Us Fertility Blog Therapies Acupuncture Acupuncture Melbourne What is acupuncture? Acupuncture is the gentle insertion of very fine needles at specific points on the human body. This process encourages the body’s natural healing abilities thereby reducing or relieving pain, and improving the overall functioning of the body’s immune and organ systems. It is both safe and effective, and is often successfully used as an alternative to medications or even surgery. What conditions can acupuncture treat? Acupuncture has been used for various conditions. The World Health Organization (WHO) has listed over 30 conditions that can be effectively treated by acupuncture. Clinical studies in China and in the west show that many more conditions may benefit from acupuncture. These disorders include: Neurological conditions : stroke, migraine, headache, insomnia, nervous tension, facial paralysis, trigeminal neuralgia, bell's palsy, Meniere's disease; Respiratory conditions : bronchial asthma, acute and chronic bronchitis, , acute tonsillitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, hay fever, chronic cough, laryngitis, sore throat, influenza and the common cold; Digestive system disorders : toothache, post-extraction pain, gingivitis, mouth ulcers, hiccough, spasms of the oesophagus, gastric and duodenal ulcers, gastric hyper-acidity, gastritis, heartburn, hiatus hernia syndrome, flatulence, paralytic ileus, colitis, diarrhoea, constipation, haemorrhoids, liver and gall bladder disorders, and weight control. Urogenital disorders such as cystitis, prostatitis, low sexual vitality, urinary retention, kidney disorders, nocturnal enuresis, and neurogenic bladder dysfunction. Gynaecological and obstetric disorders: premenstrual tension, painful, heavy or irregular, or the absence of periods, abnormal uterine bleeding or discharge, hormonal disturbances, disorders associated with menopause, prolapse of the uterus or bladder, difficulty with conception, and morning sickness. Skin conditions : eczema, dermatitis, psoriasis, nerve rash, herpes zoster (shingles), acne, scar tissue, hair loss and dandruff. Eye conditions : visual disorders, red, sore, itchy or watery eyes, conjunctivitis, simple cataracts, myopia in children, and central retinitis. Musculoskeletal disorders : osteoarthritis, sciatica, lumbago, weak back, low back pain, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, tenosynovitis, shoulder and neck pain, cervicobrachial syndrome, "frozen shoulder", and "tennis elbow". Sporting injuries: sprained ankles and knees, cartilage problems, corking and tearing of muscles, torn ligaments and bruises. Psychological conditions : depression, phobias, emotional disturbances, anxiety, nervousness and addictions such as smoking. How does acupuncture work? Acupuncture points are the specific points located along the meridians where the Qi (pronounced "Chi", means energy) is both concentrated and accessible. Acupuncture engages the Qi by inserting needles at these specific points, the goal being to restore the proper flow of Qi. Each point has a predictable effect upon the vital energy passing through it and as the body regains its natural balance, well-being returns. Billions of people have testified that acupuncture is effective and lots of controlled studies both in China and West shown that acupuncture works for a variety of diseases. Some researches found acupuncture stimulates the nervous system. It effects both peripheral nerve and central nervous system. Other researches revealed that acupuncture help brain release morphine-like substances (endorphins), which helps relieve the pain, calm and relax the body. Does acupuncture hurt? Not really.Many people shy away from acupuncture just due to "the fear of needles". However, unlike the injection needles everybody knows, acupuncture needles are very fine and smooth. The gauge of some needles we used in our clinic can be as little as 0.12 mm. From 10 to 15 acupuncture needles can fit into one conventional hypodermic needle. Most people feel no pain when we insert the needles in their body. When the needles are in the Acupoints, you may feel slightly sensation as either pressure, tightness, numbness or a sensation of heat. These sensation are called "De Qi" ("Feeling the Energy"). With the "De Qi" sensation, we can help adjust and re-balance the energy in your body. Actually, most of our client feel calming and relaxing during and after the treatment. Is acupuncture safe? Yes. Acupuncture is a safe medical procedure. "One of the advantage of acupuncture is that the incidence of adverse effects is substantially lower than that of many drugs or other accepted medical procedures used for the same condition" ~National Institutes of Health (NIH, America) Consensus 1997. Our acupuncturists are fully qualified conscientious practitioners. We follow strictly infectious control procedure in the clinic. For your safety only sterile, single-use disposable needles are used in our clinic. What can I do to increase my acupuncture treatment effect? It is vital to follow these guidelines: Come to your appointments. If you have to reschedule your appointment, please give us at least 24 hours notice therefore others can be seen at the time; In order to have relaxed full session treatment, please come on time. Eat at least one hour away from your acupuncture appointment, and don't have acupuncture with empty stomach; No intensive physical exercises (such as running, GYM, competitive games)  at least one hour away from acupuncture treatment; Make sure you turn your mobile phone off or switch to silent before and during treatment; Wear loose comfortable clothes and take everything out from your pockets; You can learn and practice Richard Zeng's breath exercises which can help you feel better Qi or energy flow. Home Therapies Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Electro-Acupuncture laser acupuncture Auricular Acupuncture scalp acupuncture dermal/intra-dermal acupuncture Chinese herbal medicine Chiropractic Tui Na Massage Moxibustion Cupping Therapy Qi Gong Conditions treated TCM Theory - Yin Yang Acupuncture Research Clinic Health Newsletter Women's health Women's health Period Problems Menopause Menopause clinical trial Men's health Men's health Laser Acupuncture Laser Acupuncture Quit Smoking Quit Smoking Tips cosmetic acupuncture Cosmetic Acupuncture Cosmetic Acupuncture Fees Question? Interested in making an appointment? Contact us or Call 03 93865068 to  talk with our friendly staff. Coburg acupuncture Clinic address: 4 Harding Street, Coburg Melbourne, Vic 3058 Ample parking opposite the clinic Map Ringwood Acupuncture Chiropractic Clinic Now Open Address: 31 Wantirna Road, Ringwood Melbourne, Vic 3134 Tel: 03 8802 1519 recent topics Sciatica IVF Acupuncture FAQ Your HealthCare Team Nutrients for the prospective father Christmas New Year Holiday Hours Acupuncture menopause trial Health Newsletters Preventing miscarriage Therapies Streches for Lower Back Pain Like Us On FaceBook Almond Wellness Centre - Chinese medicine Acupuncture Chiropractic Clinics Tweet Most Read Tags acupuncture points acupuncture weight loss allergic appointment back back pain brunswick coburg acupuncturist deep docotor ear acupuncture quit smoking falling hours lotions map melbourne office qi gong qigong question rhinitis stress suction tuina weight control Home | Therapies | Practitioners | Conditions Treated | Fertility Programme | Cosmetic Acupuncture | Contact Us | Sitemap | Links IVF Acupuncture | Fertility Acupuncture | Chinese Medicine Fertility | Acupuncture Melbourne | Melbounrne Chiropractic | Chinese Herbal Medicine | Ringwood Chiropractic | Chiropractor Disclaime: The information provided through this site is for educational purposes only and should NOT be used for diagnosis, treatment or medial advice. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, always seek professional medical advice from your primary care physician or other qualified healthcare provider. Almond Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Clinic Melbourne, and employees and affiliates are presenting facts for informational purposes only and are not responsible for individuals actions.  This site does not promote self-diagnosis nor self medication. Copyright © 2012 Acupuncture Clinic Melbourne Coburg Brunswick Ringwood | All right reserved Accupuncture, Melbourne, Acupuncture Clinic, Acupuncture Fertility, Coburg, Brunswick, Ringwood, Pascoe vale, Essendon, Preston, Mitcham, Eastern