<http://natural-childbirth-baby-care.com/?p=5256>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Compression Stockings Aid Varicose Veins Due To Pregnancy Natural Childbirth Baby Care Pages Home Baby Articles baby teeth bottle feeding baby breast feeding c section childbirth hypnosis contact us crying baby Disclaimer helping baby sleep home miscarriage morning sickness natural childbirth newborn baby care pregnancy diet pregnancy exercise premature baby Privacy Policy Recent Posts What are the chances of an 18 month old dying of SIDS? Miscarriage Follow Up Dr Appointment The Dangers of Vaccines – Part 1 (Autism SIDS MMR HPV Gardasil H1N1 Thimerosal) How do you stop/break the habit of bottle feeding at night? Side Lying Bottle Feeding of The Premature Infant Archives Select Month February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 Compression Stockings Aid Varicose Veins Due To Pregnancy Are you finding in the latter part of your pregnancy that your legs are regularly feeling painful and tired?  If they’re then you may find that wearing a good quality pair of compression stockings can help provide you with support and relief you need from these symptoms. As your pregnancy advances you will discover that the additional weight you are carrying will increase the chances of varicose veins developing.  Why they develop or become more exaggerated is because the extra uterus weight is placing pressure on the veins upon the right side of your body and as a result results in more pressure being placed on the veins in your legs. Normally the blood in your legs will be flowing upwards to return it to the heart.  But with the extra pressure and as there is more blood within you to provide your unborn child with what it needs this causes the veins to work at much greater levels.   If blood flow through your legs then becomes compromised this will result in further pressure being placed on the veins in your legs.    Most of the time these women will find that their legs start to feel heavy, plus they may feel as when they are itching or burning. If you’re a pregnant woman and you do begin notice to problems such as those mentioned above then consider wearing a good pair of compression stockings .  They are produced from rubber and elastic fibers and this causes them to press tightly against your legs providing additional support to them and the veins.  Plus the pressure that these place on your legs will assist you to keep the blood circulating around them and this then reduces the potential risk of swelling or blood clots occurring. Today there are many different medications and surgical procedures which you can use to assist in treating varicose veins.  But in studies carried out it has been shown that the simplest way of treating such medical conditions is through the wearing of compression stockings.  In fact in one study carried the results of which were published in the Phebology medical journal it was discovered that 71 percent of people who wore prescribed versions of this footwear on a regularly basis found there symptoms improved quite substantially.  This was especially true when worn every day. However for your compression stockings to be truly effective when pregnant you must make certain you are prescribed the right kind.  They need not just to apply the right amount of compression to your feet and legs but also must fit well.  To make sure that they do then you must ensure that you visit someone who specifically is trained to execute the procedure to ensure that you get the right type.  If you’re having problems finding such a person locally then a quick search online should come up with the information you are looking for.  Plus don’t be afraid to ask your doctor or other health care professional to see whether they’d like to determine who you need to be seeing. Recommended Reading natural baby care What are the chances of an 18 month old dying of SIDS? Miscarriage Follow Up Dr Appointment The Dangers of Vaccines – Part 1 (Autism SIDS MMR HPV Gardasil H1N1 Thimerosal) How do you stop/break the habit of bottle feeding at night? Side Lying Bottle Feeding of The Premature Infant My wife has been exclusively breast feeding our 3 month old daughter. How can we get her to take a bottle? What is your take on breastfeeding versus bottle feeding? How often does a 14 month old baby need to sleep during daytime? SIDS prevention Pregnancy Pains Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite