<http://drcarolyndean.com/?p=2346>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Crippled at Sixteen | Dr Carolyn Dean MD ND Blog Wellness Program Consults Books Resources About Dr. Dean Affiliate Contact Subscribe to My Wellness Tips From the Future You can subscribe to my RSS Feed , follow me on Twitter or enter your email address and click the "Sign me up!" button below... Read my privacy policy . Doctor of the Future Archives 2009 - 2011 « PREVIOUS POST | LATEST  POSTS | NEXT POST » Crippled at Sixteen Carolyn Dean MD ND | Wednesday, July 21, 2010 On July 12, 2010, I had a great interview on Death by   Modern Medicine and The   Magnesium Miracle with Deb Bailey that you can listen to at Power   Women Magazine . There were a lot of case histories and personal health   stories discussed during the hour. After discussing magnesium deficiency as   it relates to gall stones, heel spurs and kidney stones, Deb told me about   her son. At age 16 he suffered kidney stones to the point of requiring kidney   surgery! She asked if I thought that indicated a magnesium deficiency. The   hair on the back of my neck stood up…and I told her, absolutely. Most kidney stones have calcium as the base. They often   form because there isn’t enough magnesium to keep calcium in solution.   Calcium and magnesium go hand-in-hand. Without enough magnesium, calcium   deposits in soft tissues throughout the body. Furthermore, magnesium relaxes   muscles and nerves and calcium tightens them up. After a stressful surgery, Deb’s son experienced even more   magnesium deficiency symptoms. But nobody recognized them for what they were.   Painful muscle cramping sidelined him from further participation in sports in   high school. Today at age 18, he comes home from his summer job at a local   fast food restaurant complaining of constant pain and stiffness. My advice to him and to anyone else who has suffered   kidney stones and muscle cramps is to give magnesium a try. It’s inexpensive,   it has no side effects and it does much more than prevent kidney stones and   muscle cramps. Here you can find my magnesium recommendations on my resources page . Briefly   they are: 1.) Magnesium Citrate Powder from Natural Calm . The powdered form allows   better absorption. The best places to purchase are health food stores or   vitacost.com. 2.) Magnesium dimalate is the preferred   form if you just want to pop a tablet. www.jigsawhealth.com offers a sustained release form, which can improve absorption if you get the   laxative effect from magnesium citrate powder. 3.) Magnesium Oil is a   non-laxative form of magnesium. It’s supersaturated   magnesium chloride in distilled water. You can apply ¼ to ½ tsp a day on your   body. It will absorb through the skin into your tissues. 4.) Angstrom Liquid Ionic Magnesium : This   is the form I personally use to avoid the laxative effect entirely. This   non-laxative magnesium is absorbed 100% at the cellular level. « PREVIOUS POST | LATEST  POSTS | NEXT POST » RSS Feed Most Recent Posts... Fine Tune Your Health Program What’s a Good Protein Powder? Supplements for Kids Magnesium & Cancer Silent Sinusitis The Magnesium Wars An Anti-Vaccination Rant Nude Food Clothed In Minerals Diagnostic Medical Thermography RnA Drops: It’s the RNA Not the DNA, Stupid! Magnesium & The Menses Magnesium Research Is Solid Blog | Wellness Program | Consults | Books | Resources | Media | About Dr. Dean | Affiliate | Contact Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Medical Disclaimer PO Box 2091, Kihei, Hawaii 96753-8240 | (808) 633-4036 | info@drcarolyndean.com Copyright © 2008-2011 Dr. Carolyn De