Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Treat insomnia using Tradition Chinese Medicine acupuncture Sanjiu 39 Medicine Center Home Chinese Medicine Herbal Medicine Acupuncture Massage Therapy Yoga Therapy Food Therapy Therapeutic Exercises Infertility Pain & Orthopedics Cancer Treatment Weight Loss Insomnia Liver Health Kidney Health HEALING CENTER Insomnia home page TCM thoery in Insomnia How TCM treat Insomnia Life style and diet Our doctor Health-care Insurance 
        Program Ask Our Experts How Traditional Chinese Medicine treat 
        insomnia Traditional Chinese Medicine uses the following 
              treatment to help the patients. (1) Chinese herbal medicine and prescription (2) Acupuncture (3) Ear Acupuncture (4) Acupressure (5) Food Therapy, Diet and lifestyle (6) Qigong and Tai Chi exercises (1) Chinese herbal medicine This ailment, according to TCM, has different syndromes. The treatment 
        for these syndromes is to use different herbal medicine bases on the principle 
        of "evidence" to determine according to the result of the diagnose 
        of the doctor Chinese medicine to insomnia is divided into at least seven types, different 
        types, with different herbs treatment. (2) Acupuncture Research shows that acupuncture, the practice of inserting small needles 
        into the skin at meridian points; regulating the flow of Qi (Chee), is 
        a form of highly beneficial treatment for a insomnia. Acupuncture has 
        been used around the globe as a viable drug free alternative, offering 
        little to no side effects to the patient. (3) Ear Acupuncture Ear acupuncture is similar to body acupuncture but with ear acupuncture 
        stimulation is only to the external ear. It is an effective method of 
        treating insomnia by the stimulation of certain acupuncture points on 
        the external ear. There are over 100 acupuncture points on the external ear and that when 
        some of these points are stimulated they are believed to influence the 
        "Heart" and "Liver" systems in the body. Sometimes, special "acupuncture seeds" are use to "stick" 
        to the ear. (4) Acupressure Acupuncture & Acupressure use the same pressure points and meridians, 
        but Acupuncture employs needles, while Acupressure uses gentle to firm 
        finger pressure, which stimulate the body's natural self-curative abilities. Acupressure releases tension, increases circulation, reduces pain, and 
        develops spirituality and vibrant health. It is an effective treatment 
        for insomnia as well. (5) Food Therapy, Diet and lifestyle Diet and lifestyle is also an important part of the prevention of insomnia. Diet is most important because diet is considered the primary cause of 
        sickness as well as the main reason for longevity and healthy. Chinese 
        food therapy is a practice of healing using natural foods instead of medication. 
        It is a modality of Traditional Chinese Medicine, also known as Chinese 
        Nutrition therapy. Food can be used to adjust the imbalance of Yin and 
        Yang. Learning dietetic therapy of Chinese Medicine is a good way to treat 
        and prevent insomnia. Please click here or check on the left side to learn diet and lifestyle 
        treatment of insomnia. (6) Qigong and Tai Chi exercises Qigong and Tai Chi exercises may be the most effective way to prevent 
        and treat insomnia Tai Chi is a slow-motion, moving, meditative exercise for relaxation. 
        Originated from China, it has become very popular in America and throughout 
        the rest of the world for its health benefits. Qigong (pronounced chee goong) is a Chinese system of physical training, 
        philosophy, and preventive and therapeutic health care. The purpose of both exercises is to enable a person to regulate and direct 
        the flow of qi within his or her own body. A student in exercise training 
        is taught to focus his or her qi in a place two inches below the navel, 
        called the dan tian, or vital center. From this center, the qi is said 
        to emanate to distant regions of the body. Upon practice, students can 
        sense the presence of qi at the vital center in the form of localized 
        warmth and can then direct the life energy to specific parts of the body. 
        For cancer patients, practitioners prescribe exercises that specifically 
        address the patients' illnesses. Tai Chi is a tool for self-relaxation, physical fitness, and self-defense 
        movement. It's slow, and the need to exercise along with meditation. From 
        China, Tai Chi because of its characteristic physical fitness has been 
        recognized by the world, and in the United States, Asia and many European 
        countries are very popular. Main methods of Tai Chi exercise regularly 
        the energy circulation in the body, which makes its perfect balance of 
        weight on both sides of the body. When you practice Tai Chi, you will 
        be better able to relax and to reconcile his own body, and ultimately 
        make you more perfect control over his body. Uniformity of breathing and 
        energy circulation in the body will make you more healthy. Medical Qigong includes meditation and breathing contact and completely 
        relax. Qigong in the contact, the fear and worry are gradually disappearing, 
        replaced by a positive image, enhanced self-confidence, through meditation, 
        people get pleasure and perception. Can promote their own blood and air 
        circulation. Please visit our other websites Click to Learn Chinese Medicine Modern Chinese Me