
PNE Care - Patient Guide Expand All | Collapse
              All Patient Guide Home How To Use This Guide Consumer Help Frequently Asked Questions Consumer Checklist Questions For Your Doctor Tips For Talking To Your Doctor Patient Bill Of Rights Patient Safety Tips Paying For Hospital Services What To Do If You Have A Complaint Resources Glossary Technical Information Introduction Acute Myocardial Infarction Care Acute Myocardial Infarction Information Congestive Heart Failure Care Congestive Heart Failure Information Surgical Care Improvement Project Care Surgical Care Improvement Project Information Data Sources Pneumonia Care Pneumonia Information Other Information Overview Of Important Health Care Information Overview Of Maryland Regulatory System For Hospital Oversight © Copyright Maryland Health Care Commission The Web This Site Home > Technical
                  Information > PNE Care Quality Care for Pneumonia Patients experiencing pneumonia should expect to receive
                    the following standard treatments: Blood culture taken prior to antibiotic Antibiotic within eight hours Oxygenation assessment within 24 hours Advice for smokers on how to stop smoking The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
                      Services and the Joint Commission for the Accreditation
                      of Healthcare Organizations have determined that the treatments
                      listed above are indicators of quality care for pneumonia.
                    Look for and expect these treatments at the hospital. Treating pneumonia When you go the hospital or emergency room for pneumonia,
                    a nurse or physician should give you prompt attention that
                    includes a physical exam. In order to start your treatment
                    as quickly as possible, several steps need to be done. Your
                    doctor will need to examine you, order tests, make a diagnosis
                    of pneumonia, and choose the best antibiotic for your condition. Blood Culture A blood culture should be done before you receive an antibiotic.
                        Blood cultures are tests performed on samples of blood
                        to check for infection. They can also detect the bacteria
                        or other germs causing  the infection to help determine
                        the best course of treatment for you. In patients with
                        pneumonia, the infection in the lungs can spread to the
                        blood. When this happens, the patient's condition can
                        worsen if not detected and treated early. What to expect: A lab technician or
                        nurse will take two blood samples from two different
                        locations for accuracy. If you are given antibiotics
                        before blood samples have been taken, ask your doctor
                        or nurse why blood cultures were not obtained. There
                        may be a good reason, such as the need to get the antibiotics
                        started right away, or if  you were already on antibiotics
                        before coming to the hospital. Antibiotic Patients with pneumonia usually take an antibiotic
                      to get rid of the infection. An antibiotic is a medication
                      designed to kill the bacteria or other germs that causes
                      pneumonia. Viruses can also cause pneumonia, but they are
                      rarely susceptible to antibiotics. Studies show that seniors
                      who receive antibiotics within eight hours of hospital
                      arrival have an increased chance of survival. What to expect: After an antibiotic has
                      been ordered, you should receive the first dose quickly.
                      If you are in the emergency room, the emergency room might
                      have a supply of antibiotics on hand, so the doctor would
                      not have to wait for an order to be processed at the hospital
                      pharmacy. Hospitalized patients may receive antibiotics through the
                      veins (intravenously), but antibiotics can also be taken
                      by mouth (orally). Sometimes, you may stay in the hospital
                      receiving  intravenous antibiotics for two or three
                      days, then go home to recover on oral medicine. Note that after the results of the blood culture are returned,
                      the doctor may change the drugs you are given in order
                    to fight the infection better. Oxygenation assessment All pneumonia patients should have their blood
                      oxygen level checked within eight hours of admission to
                      the hospital. Measuring the oxygen level in the blood of
                      patients with pneumonia helps the doctor determine the
                      severity of the pneumonia, the need for extra oxygen, and
                      whether the patient should be admitted to the hospital. Studies show that providing extra oxygen to certain people
                      with pneumonia who have low blood oxygen levels can decrease
                      risk of death. Pneumonia weakens the lungs’ ability
                      to exchange oxygen for carbon dioxide, causing the body
                      to receive too little oxygen. This lack of oxygen can kill
                      tissue as well as making it difficult to breathe. If left
                      untreated, it may lead to death. You also may receive treatments to make you more comfortable,
                      such as oxygen and medicine for coughing and chest discomfort.
                      Oxygen may be given through a small tube in your nose,
                      or a mask over your nose and mouth. What to expect: You should receive either
                      a blood test called an arterial blood gas or a pulse-oximetry,
                      which detects oxygen through a sensor placed on your finger
                      or ear lobe. If you have rapid, gasping breaths, the hospital
                      should test your blood immediately because your body may
                      not be receiving the oxygen it needs. If you have a chronic lung disease, such as emphysema and
                      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, you may not receive
                      extra oxygen. In this case, ask your doctor if you should
                    receive oxygen. Advice to stop smoking Smokers who stop smoking can improve the way their
                      lungs work. You can ask a doctor or nurse for information
                      about quitting and whether there are classes or programs
                      you can attend. You may want to ask them about medications
                      that will help you quit and if the medications would be
                      appropriate for you. What to expect: If you smoke, you should receive
                        counseling during a hospital stay on how to quit smoking.
                        The hospital staff may tell you about classes, group
                        sessions, reading materials