Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

What is Natural Medicine? NaturoDoc Blog NaturoDoc Library Search About Us NaturoDoc Store Partners What 
    Is Naturopathic Medicine? Naturopathy, or Naturopathic Medicine, is a 
    distinct, integrated system of primary health care offered by 
    licensed physicians.  It consists of the diagnosis, treatment, 
    and prevention of human disorders by the therapeutic use of natural 
    methods and materials.  These might include Clinical Nutrition, 
    Herbal Medicine, Hygiene, Homeopathy, Naturopathic Manipulation, or 
    ancient medical systems like those of China or India. How Did 
      Naturopathy Begin? What Is The 
      Philosophy Behind Naturopathy? What Types Of 
      Treatments Do Naturopathic Doctors Offer? Botanical Medicine (Phytotherapy) Homeopathy Traditional Chinese 
      Medicine Naturopathic Manipulation (Bodywork) Lifestyle Counseling and Modification What 
      Can I Expect During My First Visit? What Conditions Can Naturopathic Medicine Treat? When Can I Expect Results? How Are Naturopathic Doctors Trained? Naturopathic Medicine in practice considers the 
    fundamental components of health - biochemistry, biomechanics, and 
    the emotional predisposition - in order to help a person restore the 
    balance that we describe as good health.  This philosophy 
    empowers the individual as being responsible for the level of health 
    they experience.  Naturopathic Medicine offers safe, 
    cost-effective solutions for many of our nation's healthcare 
    problems.  Competance and respect for tradition, the scientific 
    method, and innovation are hallmarks of a naturopathic medical 
    practice. How Did Naturopathy Begin? Naturopathic treatments originated as the use of 
    herbs and foods for medicine, exposure to fresh air and sunlight, 
    and hydrotherapy (the use of hot and cold water application) as 
    steam or sauna.  These techniques and methods have long been 
    respected throughout the world.  While modern allopathic 
    medicine is a youngster of less than 200 years old, Natural Medicine 
    has been the primary medicine used by most of the human community 
    even into the 21st Century. Herbal and traditional medical arts 
    remain the primary medical choice of over 65% of humanity. Naturopathic Medicine was first established as a 
    distinct profession in North America at the turn of the 20th century 
    by Benedict Lust, a German immigrant.  Lust had been a student 
    of Father Sebastian Kneipp, famous in Europe for being involved with 
    a movement known as "Nature Cure."   That was the system 
    of employing clean  food, water, air, sun, and exercise with 
    hydrotherapy as healing agents to restore health. Lust and his wife founded the Yungborn Nature Cure 
    Health Resort in New York state.  There they incorporated other 
    disciplines and therapies compatible with the basic principles of 
    "Nature Cure."  In 1902, Lust began using the term Naturopathy 
    to describe the mixture of disciplines and therapies he used to 
    treat illness.  Three years later he founded the first school 
    of Naturopathic Medicine under the laws of the State of New York. Throughout North America in the early 1900s, this 
    movement blossomed with the opening of more than 20 schools offering 
    programs in Naturopathic Medicine.  In 1925, Ontario formally 
    recognized Naturopathic Medicine under the Drugless Practitioners 
    Act. Arizona followed with their act in 1935.  British Columbia 
    enacted the Naturopathic Physician's Act in 1936, followed by 
    Alberta and Manitoba in the 1940s.  After World War II, 
    antibiotics and advanced surgical techniques created a growing 
    belief that medical science and technology would soon cure most if 
    not all known sickness and disease.  Naturopathic profession, 
    with its emphasis on self-healing and independence from profitable 
    drugs and heroic procedures, declined rapidly in post WWII America. A renaissance in Naturopathy began in North America 
    and Europe in the late 1970s and early 1980s.  People and 
    governments became aware of the limitations of science and medical 
    technology.  A growing public interest in alternative or 
    complementary medicine to maintain and restore health has led to a 
    resurgence of belief in the importance of diet, lifestyle, personal 
    choice to ideal health.  This validated the original principles 
    and teachings of the Naturopathic profession. The 
    Philosophy of Naturopathic Medicine Living things have an innate ability to heal 
    themselves.  Our vital force promotes self-cleansing, 
    self-repair, and therefore self-healing.  This process can be 
    achieved by focusing on the immune, hormonal, nervous, and 
    detoxification/elimination systems of the body.  Once these 
    systems are in balance, restored health is a probability. Naturopathic doctors treat their patients 
    holistically, taking into consideration the individual's 
    biochemistry, biomechanics, and emotional predispositions.  The 
    body's self-healing ability can be better understood if one takes 
    into account the fact that homeostasis , or biological 
    balance, is the main characteristic of any healthy system. A good example is fever.  When the body is 
    invaded by a pathogen (a substance capable of producing 
    illness or disease), the body will usually respond by producing a 
    fever to fight the invader.  If the body is properly supported 
    through nutrition and rest, the fever will turn up the immune system 
    and permit the recovery of health. Other examples are the immune system, hormonal 
    system, nervous system, and detoxification/elimination pathways, 
    which all work as a unit to ensure our survival.  If given the 
    proper support, care, and the chance to function freely without 
    suppression, they can bring the system back to a state of balance or 
    "ease" (as opposed to " dis -ease"). There are no panaceas or magic bullets.  Each 
    individual has his or her own unique set of symptoms and reactions 
    which will, in turn, dictate the approach the Naturopathic doctor 
    takes to treat them.  This is why each person seeking help from 
    a Naturopathic doctor will receive an individualized treatment 
    protocol.  Naturopathic medicine is practiced either as a 
    primary system of medical care, or as a complementary adjunct to 
    conventional medical treatment. The goal of Naturopathic Medicine is to develop 
    optimal wellness for each patient, and to teach the principles of 
    ideal health.  Although Naturopathic doctors are educated and 
    trained to treat acute and chronic disease, prevention is the 
    ultimate goal.  This is based on the Naturopathic philosophy of 
    wellness enhancement -- not disease management. What Types Of 
    Treatments Do Naturopathic Doctors Offer? Clinical Nutrition The dynamic relationship between disease and 
    nutrition is well known.  Many conditions can be improved 
    through changes in diet alone, and others respond well to proper 
    supplementation of specific nutrients.  In most cases of 
    disease or wellness, nutritional counseling and support are a major 
    component of Naturopathic treatments. Botanical Medicine (Phytotherapy) Botanical medicine, or phytotherapy, was a 
    cornerstone of traditional medicine long before the development of 
    synthetic pharmaceuticals.  Most of today's drugs were derived 
    from medicinal plants.  Modern scientific investigations have 
    substantiated many of the early uses of medical plants, and have 
    increasingly found ways to use them in treating modern diseases. The World Health Organization has encouraged 
    programs in herbal medicine, especially in developing countries, as 
    a means of providing affordable primary health care and of creating 
    agricultural markets for those economies.  Herbs are 
    characterized by their low toxicity and lack of accumulation in the 
    body.  When appropriately selected, botanical medicines offer 
    powerful, safe, and effective approach to healing, with few side 
    effects. Homeopathy Homeopathy is a holistic form of treatment that has 
    been integrated into naturopathic medicine.  Virtually all 
    homeopathic medicines are produced from natural sources-plants, 
    animals and minerals.  The success of homeopathic treatment has 
    been recognized in many countries around the world including France, 
    Germany, India, Latin America, the United Kingdom, Australia, and 
    North America.  Traditional Chinese and herbal medicine are 
    often confused with homeopathy, but in fact, they are all different 
    systems of holistic medicine. Homeopathy was standardized in 18th century 
    Germany by Samuel Hahnemann, MD.  This chemist and physician 
    discovered that when quinine, an effective treatment for malaria, 
    was taken by a healthy individual, it produced symptoms similar to 
    those found in people stricken with malaria.  This was noticed 
    with other medicines, too.  That is to say, he noticed that: "Substances that are specific for certain 
      illnesses, cure or aid the body because they actually cause 
      similar symptoms to the disease process they are being employed to 
      treat." This in turn stimulates the patient's vital force to 
    help resolve the disease.  The true mechanism behind this 
    phenomenon is as unknown today as it was then.  This process is 
    referred to as the Principle of Similars . It is important to note that homeopathy is not based 
    on the same principle as immunization, which uses substances that 
    cause the same disease, not similar symptoms.  Immunization is 
    based on isopathy -- giving a substance known to cause the 
    exact disease in question.  Also, immunization has an 
    immunological bases to it;  that is, the production of T-memory 
    cells.  The mechanism of action of homeopathy is unknown at 
    this time.  There are several models that try to explain it, 
    but none are sufficient.  In short, homeopathic medicines have 
    no relationship to the disease in question, but rather the symptoms 
    in question. The skilled practitioner finds a substance that 
    causes similar symptoms to that of the patient's, physical or 
    emotional.  This therapy is nontoxic and can be safely be used 
    with pregnant women, infants, and children. Hahnemann also noted that after treatment, many of 
    his patients' conditions worsened for a short period of time before 
    improving.  He termed this phenomenon aggravation .  
    Through systematic experimentation, Hahnemann learned that this 
    process could be avoided by diluting the medicines.  When used 
    in a homeopathic context;  that is, when the substance in high 
    doses causes similar symptoms to that of the disease in question, 
    the diluted medicines were surprisingly more effective than 
    full-strength medicines.  This led Hahnemann to further 
    experiment with dilutions until he learned that surprisingly small 
    amounts of the active ingredient in a remedy resulted in treatments 
    free from side effects but also increased their effect.  This 
    phenomenon he called the Principle of Infinitesimal Dose . What is the difference between a Naturopath and a Homeopath? In brief, homeopaths use only the homeopathic 
    approach, whereas Naturopaths train in several forms of diagnosis 
    and treatment, one of which is homeopathy.  Training in 
    homeopathy varies from a several-hundred-hour correspondence course 
    to a three-year course for which candidates need not be university 
    graduates.  In contrast, Naturopaths must complete a minimum of 
    three years of university training prior to beginning their 
    four-year residential medical school training in Naturopathic 
    Medicine. Traditional Chinese Medicine Tongue and pulse diagnosis, Chinese herbs, 
    nutrition, and acupuncture comprise the ancient practices of 
    Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM).  Although this medical 
    system dates back some 3,000 years, it was only introduced to North 
    America at the turn of the century.  TCM has even more recently 
    become a respected alternative therapy in the West during the last 
    decade. A TCM diagnosis is holistic in nature.  The 
    practitioner trained in Traditional Chinese Medicine will take into 
    consideration all the aspects of the individual, including special 
    observation of the tongue and the wrist pulses.  These two 
    areas (among others), according to TCM, tell the practitioner about 
    certain characteristics of the person regarding their overall 
    constitution.  These findings tell the practitioner what 
    treatment is needed. Acupuncture involves the insertion of fine 
    needles through the skin and tissue at specific points on the body.  
    There is no injection of any substances, and the treatment itself 
    causes minimal discomfort.  Acupuncture has been found to be 
    effective in treating a variety of painful disorders, both acute and 
    chronic.  The World Health Organization in 1979 drew up the 
    following provisional list of disorders that lend themselves to 
    acupuncture treatment.  The list is based on clinical 
    experience and not necessarily controlled clinical research: Digestive disorders such as gastritis, 
      hyperacidity, spastic bowl, constipation, and diarrhea. Respiratory disorders such as sinusitis, 
      bronchitis, asthma. Neurological and muscular disorders such as 
      headaches, neck and back pain, neuralgia, frozen shoulder, tennis 
      elbow, sciatica, and arthritis. Urinary, menstrual, and reproductive disorders. Addiction and substance abuse. Sleep disorders such as insomnia and sleep apnea. According to TCM, acupuncture works due to its 
    effect on the essential substance that makes up the human body and 
    enables it to sustain life activities and functions.  This 
    "substance," for a lack of a better word, is known as Chi or Qi (pronounced "chee").  Western biomedical research has 
    learned that acupuncture works in certain situations by stimulating 
    the body to produce endorphins , a morphine-like chemical that 
    helps block pathways that relay pain messages.  The result is 
    relief from pain, general relaxation, and restoring the body's own 
    internal regulatory system. Naturopathic Manipulation (Bodywork) Often in conjunction with other treatments, bodywork 
    uses a variety of systematic movements to help heal musculoskeletal 
    and neurological conditions.  Manipulation of bone alignment is 
    used, similar to both osteopathic and chiropractic adjustments.  
    One technique in particular, "strain/counter-strain," is very gentle 
    and effective, especially for pain and injuries of the neck and 
    upper back. Lifestyle Counseling and Modification The cornerstones of Naturopathic philosophy are 
    prevention and responsibility for one's own health.  
    Naturopathic treatments often are based on assessing risk factors 
    connected to the patient's lifestyle, diet, and environment.  
    Each of these factors is taken under consideration when developing a 
    treatment plan with a client.  The goal is to remove obstacles 
    to the patient's own state of optimal health. What Can I Expect 
    During My First Visit To A Naturopathic Doctor? Once the patient's history has been taken, the 
    Naturopath may do a screening physical, which is a standard physical 
    examination supplemented by in-depth questions, and may seek 
    laboratory testing or diagnostic imaging of the complaint.  
    After the intake and physical are completed, the Naturopath will 
    discuss the treatment plan or protocol with the patient. If needed, the patient will be referred for 
    laboratory or other diagnostic tests, or to their medical doctor for 
    further consultation.  Follow-up visits are scheduled from one 
    to four weeks after treatment has begun.  If a chronic illness 
    is being addressed, the patient can expect to undergo at least one 
    month of treatment for every year of illness. What Conditions Can Naturopathic Medicine Treat? There is a wide range of conditions that 
    Naturopathic doctors treat, either alone or in combination with 
    other complementary or usual medical treatments.  These 
    include: Acute conditions such as headaches, sore throats, 
      ear infections, intestinal upsets, colds and flu, etc. Chronic illnesses such as migraines, 
      musculoskeletal pain, gastrointestinal, gynecological, arthritis, 
      heart disease, etc. Inherent tendencies before they become a serious 
      illness or degenerative disease. Mental and emotional problems to reduce the 
      effects of recent stresses and long-term patterns of anger, 
      depression, or anxiety. Physical injury and trauma, including possible 
      referral to appropriate specialists. When Can I 
    Expect Results? Naturopathy does not offer a magic cure, although 
    many report very rapid results.  Truly great results come from 
    positive behavior changes and the persistence it  requires  
    to maintain these changes long enough for the body to respond.. The Naturopathic physician is trying to stimulate 
    and support the patient's own system to address the imbalance(s) 
    that have damaged their health.  Often, long-term underlying 
    disturbances such as nutritional deficiencies or excesses, rather 
    than the presenting health problem, must be corrected in order to 
    allow the body to reassert its natural state of optimal health. Our 
    elders called these "Impediments to Cure." How Are Naturopathic Doctors Trained? There are five Naturopathic colleges in North 
    America, one of which is located in Ontario, Canada.  The U.S. 
    schools are located in Seattle, Washington;  Portland, Oregon;  
    Tempe, Arizona;  and Bridgeport, Connecticut. Each program enrolls students who have completed at 
    least three years of university study with a minimum of one 
    year-equivalent in pre-medical studies. The institutions providing these medical programs 
    are given in our Links section.  Those medical schools' websites list their 
    curricula, location, and contact information. Top Other articles on naturopathic medicine: Principles of Natural 
        Medicine About Naturopathic 
        Physicians About Naturopathic 
        Education Words of Classical 
        Thinkers The Origin of 
        Natural Law NaturoDoc Home Consult the Doc Search Translate this page Copyright 
						© 1999-2012, Natu