
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 21:42:05 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 05:00:35 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Via: 1.1 vhost.phx4.nearlyfreespeech.net:3128 (squid/2.7.STABLE7)
Connection: close

biancolo.com: Fish Oil Fish Oil Eric Cressey set out to make the case for fish oil supplementation (here's part II ) by citing reams of studies pointing to its many benefits.  You can click through for the details, but here's the list of things it might help with: Cardiovascular Health / Atherosclerosis / Hyperlipidemia / Hypertension; Hypertension; Cardiac Arrhythmias; Inflammatory Diseases of Joints and Connective Tissues; Osteoporosis; Kidney Disease/Renal Failure; Prostate Cancer; Colon Cancer; Breast Cancer; Skin Cancer; Crohn's Disease; Ulcerative Colitis; Asthma; Cystic Fibrosis; Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD); Sickle Cell Anemia; Menstrual Symptoms; Vision/Eye problems (glaucoma); Multiple Sclerosis; Prenatal and postpartum support; Psoriasis; Photosensitivity; Diabetes/Insulin Resistance; Resting Metabolic Rate; Body Composition Regulation and Leptin; Psychological Disorders; The Response to Stress; Migraine Headaches; Epilepsy; Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS); Fibromyaglia; Cirrhosis; A couple notes from his closing thoughts: If you aren't taking fish oil, you're an idiot. Seriously. Okay, I'll leave you with a bit more practical wisdom instead. The typical fish oil capsule you'll encounter is 1000 mg fish oil; we, however, are more concerned with the EPA and DHA content of that 1000 mg. In most cases, you'll find 180 mg EPA and 120 mg DHA per capsule. A good rule of thumb (especially based on the results of the clinical trials) is to consume 3-6 g combined EPA and DHA per day; at this capsule size, you'd need 10-20 capsules per day. For this reason, liquid fish oil is a great alternative. If you're set on capsules these might be good , but I can't vouch for them myself.  Seems like they pack more of a EPA/DHA wallop than the smaller capsules Eric mentions though.  He also says: Finally, be patient! Read the finer details of all of the studies that I've outlined and you'll realize that the majority of them were at least 6-8 weeks in duration (usually longer). Your body needs time to make good use of these healthy raw materials, so count on a few months before you see noticeable results if you have one of the aforementioned conditions. For the rest of you, you probably won't notice much, but I guarantee that you'll be healthier in the long run. Interesting. 01/04/07 @ 12:13 AM "Paypal Sucks" » « One Mile to Ripped Hi I'm Jim Biancolo , and this is stuff I found interesting that I thought you might like too.  Here are some of my favorites if you want to start there.  Mostly I link to other people, but some stuff is mine , like: My AutoHotkey scripts , including one for universal AutoCorrect . A list of my favorite action scenes . A bunch of movies I liked that are available to watch instantly on Netflix . Fun with Bic pens: the Earth Pen and the Fridge Pen . My very own oatmeal recipes that sound totally gross but are actually good. Spillover I am loving Instapaper , and use if to sock away stuff to read .  Here are a bunch of articles I read recently and liked . Archives Search: Subscribe Here are the RSS feeds for this site , my Instapaper reading list , and my Instapaper favorites . "RSS?  What in the blazes are you carryin' on about, boy?" If you prefer, enter your address below to get updates via e-mail.  Powered 