<0.001). After adjusting for covariates, the odds of reporting sexual activity among Audio-SAQ and ACASI users were twice as high as the odds for SAQ users (Audio-SAQ AOR=2.05 (95% CI 1.2 to 3.4); ACASI AOR=2.0 (95% CI 1.2 to 3.2)), with no evidence of reporting difference between ICVI and SAQ users (ICVI AOR=1.0 (95% CI 0.6 to 1.8)). ACASI users reported a lower age at first intercourse and were more likely to report a greater number of partners (mean difference=1.06; 95% CI 0.33 to 1.78; p=0.004). They reported an increased ability to answer questions honestly (p=0.004) and believed their answers would be kept secret. Participants claimed increased comprehension when hearing questions while reading them. ICVI users expressed difficulty answering sensitive questions, despite understanding that their answers were unknown to the interviewer. Conclusion ACASI appears to reduce bias significantly, and is feasible and acceptable in resource-poor settings with low computer literacy. Its increased use would likely improve the quality of questionnaire data in general and sexual behaviour data specifically. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Neutralization activity in a geographically diverse East London cohort of human immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected patients: clade C infection results in a stronger and broader humoral immune response than clade B infection Reference: Journal of General Virology .  4 August  2010; 91:2794-2803. Authors: Dreja H, O'Sullivan E, Pade C, Greene KM, et al. http://vir.sgmjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/91/11/2794 The array of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) subtypes encountered in East London, an area long associated with migration, is unusually heterogeneous, reflecting the diverse geographical origins of the population. In this study it was shown that viral subtypes or clades infecting a sample of HIV type 1 (HIV-1)-positive individuals in East London reflect the global pandemic. The authors studied the humoral response in 210 treatment-naive chronically HIV-1-infected (>1 year) adult subjects against a panel of 12 viruses from six different clades. Plasmas from individuals infected with clade C, but also plasmas from clade A, and to a lesser degree clade CRF02_AG and CRF01_AE, were significantly more potent at neutralizing the tested viruses compared with plasmas from individuals infected with clade B. The difference in humoral robustness between clade C- and B-infected patients was confirmed in titration studies with an extended panel of clade B and C viruses. These results support the approach to develop an HIV-1 vaccine that includes clade C or A envelope protein (Env) immunogens for the induction of a potent neutralizing humoral response. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS A role for syndecan-1 and claudin-2 in microbial translocation during HIV-1 infection Reference: Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes .  1 November  2010; 55(3):306-315. Authors: Smith AJ, Schacker TW, Reilly CS,  Haase AT. http://journals.lww.com/jaids/Abstract/2010/11010/A_Role_for_Syndecan_1_and_Claudin_2_in_Microbial.4.aspx Microbial translocation from the gastrointestinal tract has been implicated in chronic activation of the immune system during progressive HIV-1 infection by ill-defined mechanisms. We recently identified a gene encoding syndecan-1 (SYN1) in microarray studies of HIV-1 infection in lymphatic tissues and show here that increased expression of SYN1 in the gut of HIV-1-infected individuals is associated with increased microbial translocation. We further show that: (1) microbial access to SYN1 in the intestinal epithelium could be mediated by compromised barrier function through the upregulation of claudin-2; (2) increases in SYN1 and microbial translocation are associated with systemic immune activation; and (3) SYN1 expression and microbial translocation are inversely correlated with peripheral blood CD4+ T-cell counts. We thus propose a new mechanism in which claudin-2 and SYN1 work in concert to enhance microbial translocation across the intestinal epithelial barrier to contribute to chronic immune activation and CD4+ T-cell depletion. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Time for "test and treat" in prevention of mother-to-child transmission programs in low- and middle-income countries Reference: Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes .  1 November  2010; 55(3):287-289. Authors: Zolfo M, De Weggheleire A, Schouten E,  Lynen L. http://journals.lww.com/jaids/Abstract/2010/11010/Time_for__Test_and_Treat__in_Prevention_of.1.aspx Significant progress has been made in the prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV. In 2008, an estimated 1.4 million pregnant women living with HIV in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) gave birth and almost half of these accessed antiretroviral drugs to prevent HIV transmission to their infants, which ranged from single-dose nevirapine to full combination antiretroviral therapy (ART). Although this represents a significant increase in ART coverage, much more remains to be done in terms of HIV testing and counseling, establishment of ART eligibility, and postnatal treatment and care. In November 2009, the World Health Organization issued new PMTCT guidelines for LMIC, stressing the benefits of earlier initiation of ART during pregnancy and its continuation throughout the delivery and the breastfeeding periods. A key recommendation of these guidelines is to start ART for all HIV-positive pregnant women with a CD4 count below 350 cells/mm 3 , irrespective of clinical stage. This makes access to CD4 testing more crucial than ever for the successful implementation of PMTCT programs, since clinical staging performs poorly in identifying pregnant women eligible for ART. However, there are still many barriers to accessing CD4 testing in remote health structures implementing antenatal care services, particularly in countries with a high HIV prevalence. In these settings, universal ART initiation among HIV-positive pregnant women, irrespective of CD4 cell count or clinical staging, is a potentially superior strategy for the prevention of vertical transmission and the improvement of mothers' health. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Population pharmacokinetics of nevirapine in HIV-1 infected pregnant women and their neonates (ANRS 12109). Reference: Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy . 18 October  2010 Authors: Benaboud S, Ekouevi DK, Urien S, Elisabeth R, et al. http://aac.asm.org/cgi/content/short/AAC.00631-10v1 The aim was to describe nevirapine (NVP) pharmacokinetics (PK) in pregnant women and their neonates, to evaluate the transplacental transfer and administration scheme, for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission. Thirty eight HIV-1 infected pregnant women were administered one tablet of NVP (200 mg) and 2 tablets of Truvada at the initiation of labor. Children were given NVP syrup (2mg/kg) as a single dose (sdNVP) on the first day of life. By pair, 11 maternal, 1 cord blood and 2 neonatal NVP plasma concentrations were measured and analysed by a population approach. Model and mean estimates (inter-subject variability) were a one-compartment for mothers and neonates, respectively with absorption rate constants 0.95 (111%) and 0.39 h -1 , apparent elimination clearances 1.42 (22%) and 0.035 L.h -1 and apparent volumes of distribution 87.3 (25%) and 5.65 L. An effect compartment was linked to maternal circulation by mother-to-cord and cord-to-mother rate constants of 1.10 h -1 and 1.43 h -1 . Placental transfer expressed as fetal-to-maternal AUCs (Area under the curve) ratio was 75%. Neonates had a very long half-life, compared to adults (110 hours). In the 38 mothers, the simulated median (range) individual predicted time during which NVP concentration remained above half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) was 13.2 (12 to 19.2) days. Thus, the administration of Truvada should be considered for at least three weeks after delivery to prevent the emergence of resistant viruses. The neonate must receive sdNVP immediately after birth when born less than 30 minutes after maternal drug intake, to keep NVP concentrations above IC50. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Assessing the impact of mass rape on the incidence of HIV in conflict-affected countries Reference: AIDS . 20 September  2010 Authors: Supervie V, Halima Y,  Blower S http://journals.lww.com/aidsonline/Abstract/publishahead/Assessing_the_impact_of_mass_rape_on_the_incidence.99376.aspx Objectives To quantify the potential impact of mass rape on HIV incidence in seven conflict-afflicted countries (CACs), with severe HIV epidemics, in sub-Saharan Africa. Design Uncertainty analysis of a risk equation model. Methods A mathematical model was used to evaluate the potential impact of mass rape on increasing HIV incidence in women and girls in Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, southern Sudan and Uganda. The model was parameterized with data from UNAIDS/WHO and the US Census Bureau's International Database. Incidence data from UNAIDS/WHO were used for calibration. Results Mass rape could cause approximately five HIV infections per 100 000 females per year in the DRC, Sudan, Somalia and Sierra Leone, double the number in Burundi and Rwanda, and quadruple the number in Uganda. The number of females infected per year due to mass rape is likely to be relatively low in Somalia and Sierra Leone at 127 [median (interquartile range [IQR] 55-254)] and 156 [median (IQR 69-305)], respectively. Numbers could be high in the DRC and Uganda: 1120 [median (IQR 527-2360)] and 2172 [median (IQR 1031-4668)], respectively. In Burundi, Rwanda and Sudan, the numbers are likely to be intermediate. Under extreme conditions, 10 000 women and girls could be infected per year in the DRC and 20 000 women and girls could be infected per year in Uganda. Mass rape could increase annual incidence by approximately 7% [median (IQR 3-15)]. Conclusion Interventions and treatment targeted to rape survivors during armed conflicts could reduce HIV incidence. Support should be provided both on the basis of human rights and public health. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS A potent strategy to inhibit HIV-1 by binding both gp120 and gp41 Reference: Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy . 18 October  2010 Authors: Kagiampakis I, Gharibi A, Mankowski MK, Snyder BA, et al. http://aac.asm.org/cgi/content/short/AAC.00376-10v1 The development of an anti-HIV microbicide is critical in the fight against the spread of HIV. It is shown here that covalently linking compounds that bind gp120 with those that bind gp41 can inhibit HIV entry even more potently than individual inhibitors or non-covalent combinations. The most striking example involves griffithsin, a potent HIV inhibitor that binds to the surface of HIV gp120. While griffithsin inhibits HIV Env-mediated fusion in a CCR5-tropic cell-cell fusion assay with an IC50 of 1.31 +/- 0.87 nM, and the gp41 binding peptide C37 shows an IC50 of 18.2 +/- 7.6 nM, the covalently linked combination of griffithsin with C37 (Griff37) exhibited an IC50 of 0.15 +/- 0.05 nM, 8.7-fold greater than griffithsin alone. Similarly, in CXCR4-tropic cell-cell fusion assays, Griff37 is 5.2-fold better than griffithsin alone. In viral assays, both griffithsin and Griff37 inhibit HIV replication at mid-picomolar levels, but the linked compound Griff37 is several-fold more potent than griffithsin alone against both CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic virus strains. Another example of this strategy includes the covalently linked combination of peptide C37 with a variant of the gp120-binding peptide CD4M33 (26). Also, NMR spectra for several of these compounds are shown, including, to our knowledge, the first published NMR spectrum for griffithsin. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Efficacy of human papillomavirus-based screen-and-treat for cervical cancer prevention among HIV-infected women Reference: AIDS . 23 October  2010; 24(16):2553-2561. Author: Kuhn L http://journals.lww.com/aidsonline/Abstract/2010/10230/Efficacy_of_human_papillomavirus_based.15.aspx Background Cervical cancer prevention should be provided as part of primary healthcare services for HIV-infected women but conventional screening programs are difficult to implement in low-resource settings. Here, we evaluate the efficacy among HIV-infected women of a simpler, screen-and-treat strategy in which all women with a positive screening test are treated with cryotherapy. Methods We conducted a randomized clinical trial of two screen-and-treat strategies among 6555 women in Cape Town, South Africa, among whom 956 were HIV-positive. Women were randomized to screen-and-treat utilizing either human papillomavirus DNA testing or visual inspection with acetic acid as the screening method or to a control group. Women were followed for up to 36 months after randomization with colposcopy and biopsy to determine the study endpoint of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or higher. Results In the control group, HIV-positive women had higher rates of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or higher detected by 36 months (14.9%) than HIV-negative women (4.6%) (P = 0.0006). Screen-and-treat utilizing human papillomavirus DNA testing significantly reduced cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or higher through 36 months in both HIV-positive (relative risk = 0.20, 95% confidence interval 0.06-0.69) and HIV-negative women (relative risk = 0.31, 95% confidence interval 0.20-0.50). Reductions in the visual inspection with acetic acid-and-treat group were less marked. Complications of cryotherapy were mostly minor and did not differ in frequency between HIV-positive and HIV-negative women. Conclusion Screen-and-treat using human papillomavirus testing is a simple and effective method to reduce high-grade cervical cancer precursors in HIV-infected women. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS How low can you go: the impact of a modestly effective HIV vaccine compared with male circumcision Reference: AIDS . 23 October  2010; 24(16):2573-2578. Authors: Kaldor JM, Wilson DP http://journals.lww.com/aidsonline/Abstract/2010/10230/How_low_can_you_go__the_impact_of_a_modestly.17.aspx Objective The first evidence of modest effectiveness of an HIV vaccine was demonstrated by the RV144 trial in Thailand in 2009. Although promising, this vaccine has largely been dismissed because it only had 30% efficacy. In contrast, male circumcision is widely supported and has approximately twice the efficacy, but can only be targeted to half of the population. We question the vaccine efficacy required before being considered in prevention strategies. Design We forecast the expected population-level impact of implementing circumcision among males compared with a 30% effective vaccine among males and females. Methods A mathematical transmission model was developed to describe the HIV epidemics in two different settings, Thailand and South Africa, and to forecast the expected impact of circumcision or vaccine interventions. Results Interventions using a vaccine with 30% efficacy would likely have a greater population benefit than male circumcision because a proportion of males are already circumcised, thus diminishing the potential target population. Both males and females will receive considerable benefit from vaccination (for example, 33% of infections averted for males and 36% for females in South Africa), whereas females will receive only moderate benefit from male circumcision (for example, 47% of infections averted for males and 19% for females in South Africa). In both settings, it would likely take a number of years before the interventions could have a noticeable impact on HIV epidemics. Conclusion A moderately effective vaccine, such as the one demonstrated in the RV144 trial, may have a potential role in public health programs. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS To what extent is the HIV epidemic in southern India driven by commercial sex? A modelling analysis Reference: AIDS . 23 October  2010 Author: Vickerman P http://journals.lww.com/aidsonline/Abstract/2010/10230/To_what_extent_is_the_HIV_epidemic_in_southern.16.aspx Background In south India, general population HIV prevalence estimates range from 0.5 to 3%. To focus HIV prevention efforts, it is important to understand whether HIV transmission is driven by commercial sex. Methods A dynamic HIV/sexually transmitted infection transmission model was parameterized using data from Belgaum and Mysore in south India. Fits to sexually transmitted infection/HIV data from female sex workers (FSWs) and their clients for each district were obtained. Model HIV/herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2) prevalence projections for the general population were cross-validated against empirical estimates not used to fit model. The model estimated the proportion of incident HIV/HSV-2 infections due to HIV/HSV-2 transmission between FSWs/clients, their noncommercial partners and other low-risk partnerships. The relative impact of a generic intervention targeting different partnerships was explored. Results The model's general population HIV/HSV-2 prevalence projections agreed well with empirical estimates. Recent increases in condom use resulted in decreasing HIV epidemics in both settings. For men, most incident HIV/HSV-2 infections (>90%) directly result from commercial sex, whereas for women most are due to bridging infections from clients of FSWs (80-90%) with the remainder mainly due to commercial sex. Less than 1.5% of incident infections are due to low-risk partnerships. Intervention impact is maximized through targeting commercial sex but substantial impact could also be achieved through targeting noncommercial partners of clients. Discussion In southern India, HIV transmission could be driven by FSWs and their clients. While efforts to reduce HIV transmission due to commercial sex must continue, prevention programmes should also consider strategies to prevent transmission from clients to their noncommercial partners. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Genital tract HIV-1 RNA shedding among women with below detectable plasma viral load Reference: AIDS . 23 October  2010; 24(16):2489-2497. Author: Cu-Uvin S http://journals.lww.com/aidsonline/Abstract/2010/10230/Genital_tract_HIV_1_RNA_shedding_among_women_with.8.aspx Objective Few studies have assessed longitudinal genital tract HIV-1 shedding. We determined patterns of genital tract HIV-1 RNA shedding over time among women with suppressed plasma viral load (PVL) on antiretroviral treatment. Methods Paired plasma and genital tract HIV-1 RNA were measured every 4 weeks. Participants were classified as persistent, intermittent, or nonshedders. Longitudinal analysis examined rates of genital tract shedding and the association with PVL, CD4 cell count, and genital tract infections. Markov transition models were used to describe the dynamics of HIV-1 RNA in plasma and genital tract using visit-to-visit transitions from and to detectable and undetectable PVL or genital tract HIV-1 RNA. Results Fifty-nine women contributed 582 study visits of whom 95 and 98% had below-detectable PVL and genital tract viral load, respectively, at baseline. Thirty-two of 59 women (54%) had detectable HIV-1 RNA at least once in the genital tract. Twenty-two of 59 (37%) women had detectable genital tract HIV-1 RNA during a study visit when PVL was undetectable; 6.8% of the women were persistent shedders, 31% were intermittent shedders, and 45.8% were nonshedders. Sampling three subcompartments increased detection of HIV-1 genital tract viral load compared to sampling a single subcompartment. Overall, genital tract HIV-1 RNA shedding in any subcompartment occurred at about 13% of visits. Shedding in at least one of the three subcompartments occurred at 9% of visits when PVL was undetectable (95% confidence interval 6-14%). Conclusion Women with below-detectable PVL may have less risk of HIV sexual transmission on a population level, but may continue to be infectious on an individual level. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Evaluating patients for second-line antiretroviral therapy in India: the role of targeted viral load testing Reference: AIDS .  1 October  2010 Authors: Rewari BB, Bachani D, Rajasekaran S, Deshpande A, et al. http://www.avac.org/ht/display/ContentDetails/i/30509/pid/30544 Background The identification and management of first-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) failure is a key challenge for HIV programs in resource-limited settings. In 2008, the National AIDS Control Organisation, India piloted a national strategy to provide second-line ART. We assessed the National AIDS Control Organisation second-line ART evaluation algorithm. Methods Adult patients who had received 6 months or more of standard first-line ART were referred for second-line ART evaluation if they demonstrated CD4 decline to pre-ART values, CD4 drop to less than 50% of peak on-treatment value, failure to achieve CD4 greater than 100 c/mm 3 , or development of a new World Health Organization Stage 3 or 4 AIDS-defining illness. Patients received HIV RNA testing, and those with HIV RNA 10,000 c/mL or greater qualified to switch to second-line ART. World Health Organization-defined clinical and CD4 criteria for ART failure were compared against virologic failure criteria. Results Between January and June 2008, 154 patients met criteria for evaluation. Of 122 (79%) patients who had HIV RNA testing, 87 (71%) had viral load 10,000 c/mL or greater and were recommended to start second-line ART, 29 (24%) had viral load less than 400 c/mL, and six (5%) had viral load between 400 and 10,000 c/mL. The positive predictive value of World Health Organization clinical/immunologic criteria to detect virologic failure was 71% (95% confidence interval, 63% to 79%). Conclusions Second-line ART was initiated in the public sector in India using an approach combining clinical and immunologic evaluation with confirmation of virologic failure. Almost 25% of patients who met clinical/immunologic failure criteria demonstrated virologic suppression. Inclusion of targeted HIV RNA testing in the evaluation of treatment failure can prevent unnecessary switches to second-line ART. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Estimating the risk of HIV transmission from homosexual men receiving treatment to their HIV-uninfected partners Reference: Sexually Transmitted Infections . 18 July  2010 Authors: Hallett TB, Smit C, Garnett GP,  de Wolf F. http://sti.bmj.com/content/early/2010/07/18/sti.2010.042622.abstract Objective To determine how the risk of HIV transmission from homosexual men receiving antiretroviral treatment is related to patterns of patient monitoring and condom use. Methods A stochastic mathematical simulation model was developed of cohorts of men in the Netherlands who have sex with men (MSM), defining the parameters of the model using observational cohort data. The model incorporates viral load trends during first-line treatment, patient monitoring and different scenarios for the way in which condom use may depend on recent viral load measurements. The model does not include the effect of sexually transmitted infections on HIV transmission. Results For MSM receiving treatment, the risk of transmitting HIV to their long-term partner is 22% (uncertainty interval: 9-37%) if condoms are never used. With incomplete use (in 30% of sex acts) the risk is reduced slightly, to 17% (7-29%). However, the risk is as low as 3% (0.2-8%) when men receiving treatment use condoms only 6 months beyond their last undetectable viral load measurement. The risk is further reduced when 3 months is the time period beyond which condoms are used. Conclusions When condom use by HIV-infected men receiving combination treatment with antiretroviral agents is based on their last viral load measurement, the transmission risk is much lower than with incomplete condom use. The key message for patients is that although always using condoms during treatment is the best way to protect partners from the risk of HIV transmission, when such use cannot be achieved, the second best strategy is to use condoms whenever the last undetectable viral load was measured more than 3 months ago. See related article in the "Media Coverage" section of this NewsDigest: "Modelling study: no condom use after recent viral load test safer than intermittent condom use". Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS The impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy on prevalence and incidence of cervical human papillomavirus infections in HIV-positive adolescents Reference: BMC Infectious Diseases . 14 October  2010; 10:295. Authors: Shrestha S, Sudenga SL, Smith JS, Bachmann LH, et al. http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2334/10/295 Background The implementation of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) among HIV-positive patients results in immune reconstitution, slower progression of HIV disease, and a decrease in the occurrence of opportunistic infections. However, the impact of HAART on cervical human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, clearance, and persistence in high-risk adolescents remains controversial. Methods HIV-positive and high-risk HIV-negative female adolescents were enrolled in the Reaching for Excellence in Adolescent Care and Health (REACH) longitudinal cohort study. At each semi-annual clinical visit, cervical lavage samples were tested for 30 HPV types. Type-specific and carcinogenic risk-specific HPV prevalence and incidence were compared in 373 eligible participants: 146 HIV-negative female adolescents with a median follow-up of 721.5 [IQR: 483-1301] days and 227 HIV-positive female adolescents. Of the 227 HIV-positive participants, a fixed set (n=100) were examined both before and after HAART initiation; 70 were examined only before HAART initiation; and 57 were examined only after HAART initiation, with overall median follow-up of 271 [IQR: 86.5-473] and 427.25 [IQR: 200-871] days respectively for before and after HAART initiation. Results Of the 373 eligible participants, 262 (70%) were infected with at least one type of HPV at baseline, and 78 of the remaining 111 (70%) became infected with at least one type of HPV by the end of the study. Overall, the incidence and prevalence of HPV types 58, 53/66, 68/70, and 31/33/35 were much higher than the established carcinogenic and HPV vaccine types 16 and 18, especially in HIV-positive females both before and after HAART initiation. Baseline prevalence for individual high-risk HPV types ranged, depending on type, from 0.7-10%, 1-17%, and 1-18% in the HIV-negative group, the HIV-positive before HAART initiation group, and the HIV-positive after HAART initiation group, respectively. Likewise, the incidence ranged, depending on HPV type, from 0.64-9.83 cases/100 PY, 3.00-12.80 cases/100 PY, and 1.49-17.05 cases/100 PY in the three groups, respectively. The patterns of each HPV type infection, clearance, and persistence did not differ considerably before or after the introduction of HAART and were clearly independent of CD4+ change within the short post-HAART follow-up period. Conclusions HAART did not immediately affect the incidence of type-specific HPV infections within a short-period follow-up; however, future studies are warranted in larger populations to evaluate HAART's impact over longer periods. See related article in the "Media Coverage" section of this NewsDigest: "Starting antiretroviral treatment does not reduce the incidence or prevalence of cervical infection with human papillomavirus" Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Antiretroviral adherence and development of drug resistance are the strongest predictors of genital HIV-1 shedding among women initiating treatment Reference: Journal of Infectious Diseases .  5 October  2010; 202:1538-1542. Authors: Graham SM, Masese L, Gitau R, Jalalian-Lechak Z, et al. http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/656790 Persistent genital human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) shedding among women receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) may present a transmission risk. We investigated the associations between genital HIV-1 suppression after ART initiation and adherence, resistance, pretreatment CD4 cell count, and hormonal contraceptive use. First-line ART was initiated in 102 women. Plasma and genital HIV-1 RNA levels were measured at months 0, 3, and 6. Adherence was a strong and consistent predictor of genital HIV-1 suppression (P < .001), whereas genotypic resistance was associated with higher vaginal HIV-1 RNA level at month 6 (P = .04). These results emphasize the importance of adherence to optimize the potential benefits of ART for reducing HIV-1 transmission risk. See related article in the "Media Coverage" section of this NewsDigest: "Adherence key to reducing genital HIV levels in women". Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Change in condom and other barrier method use during and after an HIV prevention trial in Zimbabwe Reference: Journal of the International AIDS Society . 19 October  2010; 13:39. Authors: van der Straten A, Cheng H,  Minnis AM http://www.jiasociety.org/content/13/1/39 Background We examined the use of male condoms and the diaphragm following completion of a clinical trial of the diaphragm's HIV prevention effectiveness. In the trial, called Methods for Improving Reproductive Health in Africa (MIRA), women were randomized to a diaphragm group (diaphragm, gel and condoms) or a condom-only control group. At trial exit, all women were offered the diaphragm and condoms. Methods Our sample consisted of 801 Zimbabwean MIRA participants who completed one post-trial visit (median lapse: nine months; range two to 20 months). We assessed condom, diaphragm and any barrier method use at last sex act at enrolment, final MIRA and post-trial visits. We used multivariable random effects logistic regression to examine changes in method use between these three time points. Results and discussion In the condom group, condom use decreased from 86% at the final trial visit to 67% post trial (AOR=0.20; 95% CI: 0.12 to 0.33). In the diaphragm group, condom use was 61% at the final trial visit, and did not decrease significantly post trial (AOR=0.77; 95% CI: 0.55 to 1.09), while diaphragm use decreased from 79% to 50% post trial (AOR=0.18; 95% CI: 0.12 to 0.28). Condom use significantly decreased between the enrolment and post-trial visits in both groups. Use of any barrier method was similar in both groups: it significantly decreased between the final trial and the post-trial visits, but did not change between enrolment and the post-trial visits. Conclusions High condom use levels achieved during the trial were not sustained post trial in the condom group. Post-trial diaphragm use remained relatively high in the diaphragm group (given its unknown effectiveness), but was very low in the condom group. Introducing "new" methods for HIV prevention may require time and user skills before they get adopted. Our findings underscore the potential benefit of providing a mix of methods to women as it may encourage more protected acts. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Condom avoidance and determinants of demand for male circumcision in Johannesburg, South Africa Reference: Health Policy and Planning . 20 October  2010 Authors: Bridges JF, Selck FW, Gray GE, McIntyre JA, et al. http://heapol.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/10/19/heapol.czq064.abstract Background Circumcision is efficacious in reducing HIV acquisition in heterosexual males. The South Africa government has been reluctant to adopt a national circumcision programme, possibly due to concerns that circumcision may result in decreased condom use. Objective To identify the determinants of demand for male circumcision, to examine variations by ethnicity, and to determine whether it is demanded to avoid condom use. Methods 403 parents and 237 sons in Johannesburg, South Africa, were recruited through a randomized household survey, with oversampling to balance between blacks (n=220), 'coloured' (mixed ethnicity) (n=202) and whites (n=218). The demand for male circumcision was estimated using a conjoint analysis, with each respondent randomly receiving four tasks comparing seven possible benefits--six identified through key informant interviews and one for condom avoidance. Respondents' choices were analysed using logistic regression, including stratified analyses to test for homogeneity. Results Overall, circumcision's beneficial effects on HIV transmission (P < 0.001), sexually transmitted infection (STI) transmission (P < 0.001), hygiene (P < 0.05) and sex (P < 0.05)  were identified as determinants of demand, but the condom avoidance hypothesis was rejected as it was 'repulsive' to respondents (P < 0.001). Consistent results were found for blacks (P < 0.001) and coloured (P < 0.001), but not for whites who found condom avoidance attractive (P < 0.04), a result not explained by variations in wealth, age or paternal circumcision status. Conclusions Male circumcision programmes should be tailored to accommodate variations in the determinants of demand across the target population. We find that circumcision's protective effect against HIV acquisition in men is the only determinant to be found consistently across all ethnic groups in Johannesburg. We also find that concerns over condom avoidance may have been overstated. This said, male circumcision strategies should reinforce a range of HIV prevention strategies, including condom use, as we find evidence that whites may view circumcision as a means to avoid condom use. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Scaffolding to build a rational vaccine design strategy Reference: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 19 October  2010; 107(42):17859-17860. Author: Burton DR http://www.pnas.org/content/107/42/17859.extract Conventional vaccines, going back to the work of Jenner and Pasteur, are based on a rather direct mimicry of the offending pathogen using an attenuated or killed version of the microbe or purified or recombinant proteins from the microbe surface. These vaccines have been enormously successful against a range of pathogens. However, the conventional approaches have faltered for other pathogens, such as HIV, that have evolved an arsenal of molecular tricks to avoid immune responses. In such cases, alternate strategies are being investigated. The report by Ofek et al. in PNAS describes a promising approach for presenting a vaccine target in the context of a protein or "scaffold" that lacks some of the defensive features of a pathogen such as HIV. The report does not deliver an HIV vaccine, but it takes an important step forward. To read the abstract of the Ofek article, see "Elicitation of structure-specific antibodies by epitope scaffolds" later in the "Published Research" section of this NewsDigest. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Elicitation of structure-specific antibodies by epitope scaffolds Reference: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 27 September  2010; 107(42):17880-17887. Authors: Ofek G, Guenaga FJ, Schief WR, Skinner J, et al. http://www.pnas.org/content/107/42/17880.abstract Elicitation of antibodies against targets that are immunorecessive, cryptic, or transient in their native context has been a challenge for vaccine design. Here we demonstrate the elicitation of structure-specific antibodies against the HIV-1 gp41 epitope of the broadly neutralizing antibody 2F5. This conformationally flexible region of gp41 assumes mostly helical conformations but adopts a kinked, extended structure when bound by antibody 2F5. Computational techniques were employed to transplant the 2F5 epitope into select acceptor scaffolds. The resultant "2F5-epitope scaffolds" possessed nanomolar affinity for antibody 2F5 and a range of epitope flexibilities and antigenic specificities. Crystallographic characterization of the epitope scaffold with highest affinity and antigenic discrimination confirmed good to near perfect attainment of the target conformation for the gp41 molecular graft in free and 2F5-bound states, respectively. Animals immunized with 2F5-epitope scaffolds showed levels of graft-specific immune responses that correlated with graft flexibility (p < 0.04), while antibody responses against the graft -- as dissected residue-by-residue with alanine substitutions -- resembled more closely those of 2F5 than sera elicited with flexible or cyclized peptides, a resemblance heightened by heterologous prime-boost. Lastly, crystal structures of a gp41 peptide in complex with monoclonal antibodies elicited by the 2F5-epitope scaffolds revealed that the elicited antibodies induce gp41 to assume its 2F5-recognized shape. Epitope scaffolds thus provide a means to elicit antibodies that recognize a predetermined target shape and sequence, even if that shape is transient in nature, and a means by which to dissect factors influencing such elicitation. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS The cytosolic exonuclease TREX1 inhibits the innate immune response to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Reference: Nature Immunology . 26 September  2010; 11:1005-1013. Authors: Yan N, Regalado-Magdos AD, Stiggelbout B, Lee-Kirsch M, et al. http://www.nature.com/ni/journal/v11/n11/full/ni.1941.html Viral infection triggers innate immune sensors to produce type I interferon. However, infection of T cells and macrophages with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) does not trip those alarms. How HIV avoids activating nucleic acid sensors is unknown. Here we found that the cytosolic exonuclease TREX1 suppressed interferon triggered by HIV. In Trex1-/- mouse cells and human CD4+ T cells and macrophages in which TREX1 was inhibited by RNA-mediated interference, cytosolic HIV DNA accumulated and HIV infection induced type I interferon that inhibited HIV replication and spreading. TREX1 bound to cytosolic HIV DNA and digested excess HIV DNA that would otherwise activate interferon expression via a pathway dependent on the kinase TBK1, the adaptor STING and the transcription factor IRF3. HIV-stimulated interferon production in cells deficient in TREX1 did not involve known nucleic acid sensors. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Structure and inhibition of herpesvirus DNA packaging terminase nuclease domain Reference: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 14 October  2010; 107(37):16078-16083. Authors: Nadal M, Mas PJ, Blanco AG, Arnan C, et al. http://www.pnas.org/content/107/37/16078.abstract During viral replication, herpesviruses package their DNA into the procapsid by means of the terminase protein complex. In human cytomegalovirus (herpesvirus 5), the terminase is composed of subunits UL89 and UL56. UL89 cleaves the long DNA concatemers into unit-length genomes of appropriate length for encapsidation. We used ESPRIT, a high-throughput screening method, to identify a soluble purifiable fragment of UL89 from a library of 18,432 randomly truncated ul89 DNA constructs. The purified protein was crystallized and its three-dimensional structure was solved. This protein corresponds to the key nuclease domain of the terminase and shows an RNase H/integrase-like fold. We demonstrate that UL89-C has the capacity to process the DNA and that this function is dependent on Mn2+ ions, two of which are located at the active site pocket. We also show that the nuclease function can be inactivated by raltegravir, a recently approved anti-AIDS drug that targets the HIV integrase. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS UPDATES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS Consortium assembled to design human trials of mosaic HIV vaccine Date: 18 October  2010 Source: Duke University Medical Center http://www.dukehealth.org/health_library/news/consortium-assembled-to-design-human-trials-of-mosaic-hiv-vaccine Duke University Medical Center vaccine experts have assembled an international team of investigators to design and implement the first human trial of a mosaic HIV vaccine candidate, a novel strategy that attempts to counter one of the most daunting challenges in HIV vaccine design: the virus's extensive genetic diversity. Traditional HIV vaccines are designed to stimulate the body's immune system to recognize naturally occurring stretches of specific amino acids in the virus's proteins. In contrast, mosaic vaccines are composed of many sets of synthetic, computer-generated sequences of proteins that can prompt the immune system to respond to a wide variety of circulating HIV strains. Such vaccines have already been studied in animals and have shown some success in enhancing the breadth of immune responses. Now, Barton Haynes, MD, director of the Duke Human Vaccine Institute and the Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology (CHAVI), says a newly formed research coalition has begun designing an early phase safety trial to assess mosaic vaccines in humans. The trial will test the mosaic concept and could possibly lead to the next generation of HIV vaccine candidates. Haynes, who will lead the consortium, says the group will use the NYVAC vaccinia vector (derived from the vaccine to protect against smallpox) and DNA that contain a new set of artificial computer-designed HIV genes in a phase I clinical trial that will be supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the National Institutes of Health. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Cytheris announces initiation of ORVACS-sponsored phase II clinical study to attack viral reservoir of HIV patients Date: 19 October  2010 Source: Cytheris http://www.cytheris.com/PDF/CYTHERIS_101019_Eramune_ENG.pdf Cytheris SA, a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company focused on research and development of new therapies for immune modulation, today announced the initiation of Phase II clinical trial of the company's investigative immunomodulatory agent, CYT107 (rhIL-7), in combination with two potent antiretroviral drugs represented by the integrase inhibitor raltegravir (ISENTRESS(R) - Merck & Co.) and the CCR5 inhibitor, maraviroc (SELZENTRY(TM) - ViiV Healthcare). The main hypothesis of this study is that by combining the most potent and synergistic antiretroviral drugs, coupled with an immunomodulating agent capable of targeting or inducing activation of latently infected cells, the reservoirs of HIV can be decreased and, in the best case scenario, eradication of the virus may be feasible. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Advancing pediatric, maternal and child health Date: 19 October  2010 Source: AIDS.gov http://blog.aids.gov/2010/10/advancing-pediatric-maternal-and-child-health.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=emai... By Carl W. Dieffenbach, Ph.D., Director of NIAID's Division of AIDS, Edward Handelsman, M.D., Chief of NIAID's Pediatric Medicine Branch within the Division of AIDS, and Lynne Mofenson, M.D., Chief of the Pediatric, Adolescent and Maternal AIDS Branch within the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health & Human Development. As a result of our continued dialogue with our collaborators and stakeholders, NIAID is considering how best to address the HIV/AIDS research agenda for the maternal and pediatric populations within the Institute's future clinical trial networks. Significant progress has been made in maternal and child health with the development of methods to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. While these successes are quite evident in the developed world, there is still a sizeable implementation gap for maternal, pediatric and child health services within resource-limited settings. Looking ahead, there are still significant research areas that need to be addressed for these special populations. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS CROI Scholarship Application process is open Date: 18 October  2010 Source: CROI http://www.retroconference.org/2011/display.asp?page=402 The application process for Community Educator scholarships for the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (CROI) 2011 is open. The deadline is November 4, 2010. Click here to read the full text. RETURN TO TABLE OF CONTENTS Advocacy to accelerate ethical research and global delivery of AIDS vaccines and other HIV prevention options Follow AVAC Facebook Twitter 423 West 127th Street 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 USA T +1 2