Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 09 Feb 2012 15:58:21 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "eb1792a543e7cc1:13b2"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 23:05:28 GMT
Connection: close

Health Leader Skip Navigation Search Our Site: En Español Home About Health Leader Topics A-Z Archive Subscribe Here! Breaking News Health Tools & Games Letters to the Editor Contact Us Find A... Doctor Dentist Clinical Trial Speaker Resources: University Home Page UT Physicians UT Health Services UT Dentists Mental Health Services EAP Work/Life CancerWise Houston Texas Exes Memorial Hermann The Health Museum We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here STORY BY Anissa Anderson Orr News that links a life-saving pneumococcal vaccine for  children to an antibiotic-resistant superbug has worried and confused parents  across the country. Does the vaccine give children the superbug and cause ear  infections? No, say medical experts at The University of Texas Health Science  Center Houston. Should parents with children under age 2 continue to vaccinate  their children with the vaccine, called Prevnar? “Oh definitely, to prevent a death and to prevent  meningitis, the issue of whether to vaccinate your child with Prevnar is really  a no-brainer,” says Lynnette Mazur, MD, professor of pediatrics at UT Medical  School at Houston.  “I trained in the time before the vaccine was available, when many children  died of meningitis. Now we rarely see this type of meningitis in our patients.” UT microbiologist Danielle Garsin, PhD, agrees with Mazur  about the importance of vaccinations and encourages parents to look past the  headlines, which may be misleading. “They imply the vaccine is causing these  antibiotic-resistant ear infections, which is not the case,” Garsin says, who  is an assistant professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at UT   Medical School. “Vaccines can not cause resistance to antibiotics. I am worried  that the news encourages parents not to vaccinate their children.” A superbug evolves In September, doctors in New York reported discovering the first germ  that is resistant to all drugs approved to treat childhood ear infections. The  superbug is a strain of streptococcus (strep) bacteria, called 19A, not  included in the pneumococcal vaccine Prevnar. The vaccine was introduced in  2000 to protect against bacteria that cause pneumonia, meningitis and deadly  bloodstream infections. Nine toddlers in Rochester,   NY caught the bug caused by 19A  bacteria. They developed ear infections that did not respond to two or more  antibiotics, including high-dose amoxicillin and multiple shots of another  drug. Many children required surgery with ear tubes to drain the excess fluid.  Some recovered only after treatment with a newer, powerful antibiotic whose  safety in children has not been established, according to news reports. Scientists think that strains of strep bacteria not covered  in the vaccine began to flourish once the strains covered in the vaccine were  all but eliminated. “Nature abhors a vacuum,” Garsin explains. “If you kill off  some of the harmful bacteria, you leave an opening in which another strain can  take advantage of that situation.” Rebel germs The superbug in Rochester  is a frightening example of the growing problem of antibiotic resistance. The  number of bacteria resistant to antibiotics has increased in the last decade  and nearly all significant bacterial infections in the world are becoming  resistant to common antibiotics, according to the Centers for Disease Control  and Prevention (CDC). Why are antibiotics losing their bite? We are using them too  frequently and for the wrong reasons, experts say. Taking antibiotics kills  sensitive bacteria, but resistant germs may remain and grow and multiply—a  phenomenon called selective pressure. Continuous exposure to antibiotics may  also cause bacteria that normally respond to antibiotics to mutate into hardier  strains. “When antibiotics are used extensively,  bugs are under extreme pressure to survive. Any strains not affected by the  antibiotic have a selective advantage and they take over,” Garsin says, who has  experienced antibiotic resistance first hand. She recently contracted a MRSA  (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ) infection while in the  hospital following the birth of her baby. We all contribute to antibiotic resistance every time we or  our children don’t finish the entire course of prescribed treatment or we use  antibiotics to treat a minor illness. And although doctors know better, they  are more likely to prescribe antibiotics if asked. According to the CDC, a  recent study showed that doctors prescribe antibiotics 65 percent of the time  if they perceive parents expect them and 12 percent of the time if they feel  parents do not expect them. What can parents do? Until researchers can develop new, more effective  antibiotics, the best way to stem the spread of antibiotic resistance is to use  the drugs only when necessary. That means knowing when antibiotics will work  and when they won’t. Antibiotics only kill bacteria and will not treat  illnesses caused by viruses such as colds or flu, coughs or bronchitis or sore  throats of a viral origin. Also, many ear infections clear up on their own and  don’t require antibiotics as a first line treatment. “Some doctors are delaying treatment with antibiotics to  help prevent resistance,” Mazur says. “They may advise parents to hold off on  antibiotic use and wait a couple of days before filling a prescription to see  if it clears up.” Mazur adds that the United States is one of the few  countries that routinely treat ear infections with antibiotics. To prevent ear  infections in children, she recommends breastfeeding infants six months or  longer to encourage healthy immune systems and not smoking around children. If an ear infection lasts longer than a week, parents should  take their children to a doctor for treatment. Children who have frequent ear  infections may need to see an ear, nose and throat specialist for a thorough  exam and to discuss more long-term treatment methods, such as ear tubes. Working one step ahead As antibiotic resistance increases, researchers and drug  companies are struggling to develop new vaccines and antibiotics that work  against superbugs. Wyeth, the manufacturer of Prevnar, is testing a  second-generation vaccine to keep up with evolving strains of strep bacteria.  The new vaccine may take an estimated two years to reach the market. Developing  new antibiotics also takes time. “Unfortunately, there are not many new antibiotics in the  pipeline,” Garsin says. “We need to make developing new antibiotics a  priority.” Last Updated: 11-08-2007 The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth), the most comprehensive academic health center in The UT System and the U.S. Gulf Coast region, is home to schools of biomedical informatics, biomedical sciences, dentistry, medicine, nursing and public health. UTHealth educates more healthcare professionals than any health-related institution in the State of Texas and features the nation’s seventh-largest medical school. It also includes a psychiatric hospital and a growing network of clinics throughout the region. The university’s primary teaching hospitals include Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center, Children’s Memorial Hermann Hospital and Lyndon B. Johnson General Hospital. Founded in 1972, UTHealth’s 10,000-plus faculty, staff, students and residents are committed to delivering innovative solutions that create the best hope for a healthier future. Editorial Board | Legal Disclaimer | Privacy & Security | Web File Viewing | Contact Us © 2000-2010 Office of Institutional Advancement, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston Subscribe Here FREE! Follow us on: About Dr. Mazur: Dr. Lynnette Mazur is a professor of pediatrics at the UTHealth Medical School. See Dr. Mazur also at: Meningitis Babies & Flu Whooping Cough Three in your bed? About Dr. Garsin: Dr. Danielle Garsin is an assistant professor in the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics at the UTHealth Medical School. Related Stories: Ear, Nose, and Throat Archive Infectious Disease Archive Strep Health Tip: The mouth: a window to the body Researchers have found connections between periodontal (gum)  infections and other diseases throughout the body, suggesting a link between  gum disease, heart disease and other health conditions. Research suggests that gum disease may be as serious a risk  factor for heart disease as hypertension, smoking, cholesterol, gender and  age. Those with gum disease seem to be at higher risk for heart attacks.  Possible explanations involve mouth bacteria that loosen and flow to the  arteries, creating arterial plaque. If your dentist diagnoses you with gum disease, inform your  medical health care provider, too. Make you