
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 00:11:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Vary: Cookie
X-hacker: If you're reading this, you should visit automattic.com/jobs and apply to join the fun, mention this header.
X-Pingback: http://news.health.com/xmlrpc.php

Migraine Headaches - Health News - Health.com Vote! Which is harder to adhere to? Enter Our Sweepstakes Health News From Health Magazine The Best Makeup Colors For Your Face A More Flexible You in 5 Minutes Stop Back Pain Before It Starts How to Find the Best Doctors Home Health A-Z Alzheimer's Disease Asthma Bipolar Disorder Birth Control Breast Cancer Childhood Vaccines Cholesterol Chronic Pain Cold, Flu, and Sinus COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Diabetes (Type 2) Fibromyalgia GERD Gout Incontinence Menopause Menstruation Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sexual Health Sleep Disorders Ulcerative Colitis More Conditions Healthy Living News Beauty Celebrities Family Fitness Home and Travel Mind and Body Money Sex and Relationships Fitness Blog Weight Loss Diets Dieting Tips Weight Loss Blog Eating Cooking Nutrition Restaurants Healthy Eating Blog Recipes Your Heart Health Home >> Health News >> Migraines Headaches Condition Center >> News Migraine Headaches News & Headlines Headaches and Migraines Home Headaches and Migraines Journey Symptoms and Diagnosis Triggers and Prevention Treatments and Medication News & Headlines Community Headaches and Migraines Library Overview Risks and Symptoms Diagnosis and Tests Treatment and Drugs Lifestyle and Managing Advertisement RELATED CONDITIONS Cold, Flu, and Sinus Chronic Pain Depression Fibromyalgia Menopause Hypertension Insomnia Sleep Apnea Stroke HIV WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Free Pain Prevention Email Newsletter Updates, news, and expert tips to stop aches and pains from interrupting your life See more Newsletters Migraines May Raise Depression Risk in Women February 22, 2012 Getty Images By Matt McMillen WEDNESDAY, February 22, 2012 (Health.com) — Middle-aged women are roughly 40% more likely to become depressed if they experience migraine headaches, new research suggests. What’s more, their risk of depression appears to stay elevated even if the pain stops. Women whose migraines had not troubled them within the past year were just as likely to become depressed as women who were still enduring the sometimes crippling headaches, the study found. Read More Pages: 1 2 Migraines May Raise a Woman’s Odds of Depression February 22, 2012 By Madonna Behen HealthDay Reporter WEDNESDAY, Feb. 22 (HealthDay News) — As if the debilitating headaches weren’t bad enough, women who get migraines or have had them in the past are at increased risk for depression, a new study suggests. Migraines are intense, throbbing headaches often accompanied by nausea and sensitivity to light or sound. They are three times more common in women than in men. Read More Study Links Colic in Infants to Migraines in Moms February 20, 2012 By Mary Brophy Marcus HealthDay Reporter MONDAY, Feb. 20 (HealthDay News) — Experts are beginning to believe that some non-headache health problems in childhood — such as vomiting and vertigo — might be linked to migraines later in life. Now, a new study suggests a connection between mothers with migraines and colic in infancy. Colic is a condition marked by excessive crying in an otherwise healthy child. Read More Power of Acupuncture to Ease Migraines Questioned in Study January 9, 2012 By Maureen Salamon HealthDay Reporter MONDAY, Jan. 9 (HealthDay News) — “Sham” acupuncture worked almost as well on migraine patients as three types of traditional acupuncture, a new study says. Randomly assigning 480 patients to one of four groups at nine Chinese hospitals — one sham acupuncture group and three receiving accepted types — an international team of researchers, including Dr. Fan-rong Liang at Chengdu University in China, found that between 50 percent and 75 percent of those with migraines felt better after sham or real acupuncture, respectively, after 16 weeks. Read More Headaches May Plague Many With HIV/AIDS December 14, 2011 WEDNESDAY, Dec. 14 (HealthDay News) – Headache affects 50 percent of HIV/AIDS patients in the United States, and many of those headaches are severe, a new study says. About 27.5 percent of the 200 HIV/AIDS patients in the study suffered “chronic migraine,” a rare condition in which a person has migraine symptoms (with or without other headaches) for 15 or more days a month. This condition occurs in only 2 percent of the general population. Read More Regular Exercise Seems to Guard Against Migraine October 12, 2011 WEDNESDAY, Oct. 12 (HealthDay News) — Exercise can prevent migraines just as well as drugs or relaxation techniques, a new study from Sweden suggests. “Our conclusion is that exercise can act as an alternative to relaxations and [the migraine drug] topiramate when it comes to preventing migraines, and is particularly appropriate for patients who are unwilling or unable to take preventative medicines,” study lead author Emma Varkey, a physiotherapist and doctoral student at the Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, said in a university news release. Read More Behavioral Techniques a Better Value for Chronic Migraine Than Meds: Study July 8, 2011 FRIDAY, July 8 (HealthDay News) — Behavioral treatments such as relaxation training, hypnosis and biofeedback to help prevent chronic migraine headaches are cost-effective alternatives to prescription drugs, a new study suggests. Researchers compared the costs of several types of behavioral treatment with preventive prescription drugs. After six months, minimal-contact behavioral treatment was comparable with drug treatment using medicines that cost 50 cents or less per day. Read More For Many, Weight-Loss Surgery Also Eases Migraines June 15, 2011 By Steven Reinberg HealthDay Reporter WEDNESDAY, June 15 (HealthDay News) — Severely obese patients who suffer from migraines may see them fade or become less frequent after having weight-reducing gastric bypass surgery, University of Iowa researchers say. In the three years following surgery, 70 percent of the patients reported being migraine-free and more than 18 percent saw their migraines reduced from five to two a month, the researchers found. Read More Scientists Identify Genes Linked to Migraines June 12, 2011 SUNDAY, June 12 (HealthDay News) — Researchers have identified three genes linked to migraine headache and found that  people who inherit any one of these genes have a 10 to 15 percent greater risk for the condition. Migraine headache — an abnormality in the response of nerve cells to stimuli — is characterized by recurring severe headaches, which often result in nausea as well as sensitivity to light and sound. Read More Migraine Plus PTSD 4 Times More Likely in Men: Study June 8, 2011 WEDNESDAY, June 8 (HealthDay News) — New findings on the link between migraine headaches and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) suggest that sex differences play an important role in the connection. As individual health issues, both PTSD and migraine are more common among women. However, the new study found that men with migraines are four times more likely than women with migraines to also have PTSD. Read More Previous Migraine Headaches Stories Special Tinted Glasses May Stymie Migraines 05/26/2011 - Migraine Headaches Common Birth Defect May Be Linked to Migraine With Aura 03/31/2011 - Migraine Headaches TV Reporter’s Severe Migraine Mimicked a Stroke 02/18/2011 - Migraine Headaches A Lifetime of Migraines 12/21/2010 - Migraine Headaches Got a Headache? Your Body May Be Telling You Something 12/21/2010 - Migraine Headaches Botox Approved for Chronic Migraines 10/18/2010 - Migraine Headaches New Migraine Gene Discovered 08/29/2010 - Migraine Headaches More Stories Text Size: WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Free Pain Prevention Email Newsletter Updates, news, and expert tips to stop aches and pains from interrupting your life See more Newsletters Advertisement Editors' Pick: Headaches and Migraines 10 Surprising Headache Triggers What to Do If Headaches Make You Dizzy Ask the Headache Doctor Migraine Medications Symptoms of Migraine Headaches The Top Migraine Triggers Read More Health.com Exclusives 7 Daily Habits That Can Halt Heartburn Food Swaps That Cut Cholesterol, Not Taste 7 Surprising Triggers of Lung Trouble 5 Heartburn-Easing Foods What Your Looks Say About Your Health 11 Surprising Symptoms of Acid Reflux Most Popular 1 Best Superfoods for Weight Loss 2 25 Diet-Busting Foods You Should Never Eat 3 Which Foods Burn the Most Fat? 4 11 Mistakes Women Make in Middle Age 5 The Best and Worst Burgers 6 The Top Fat-Burning Foods Close Social Web E-mail Facebook Digg StumbleUpon del.icio.us reddit BlinkList Newsvine Furl Tailrank Ma.gnolia E-mail It To Addresses (up to 5): Your Name: Your Address: Health A-Z Healthy Living Weight Loss Eating Recipes Health.com Health A-Z Healthy Living Weight Loss Eating Recipes Health News Inside Health Magazine Sweepstakes Site Map About Us Contact Us Free Newsletters Help Advertise with Health.com Advertise with Health Magazine Health Buzz Health Magazine Customer Service Subscribe Tablet Edition Give a Gift Renew Your Subscription Stay Connected to Health.com Sign Up for Newsletters Become a Fan of Health Get Health Twitter Updates Subscribe to RSS Join Healthy Voices Copyright © 2012 Health Media Ventures, Inc. All rights reserved. The material in this site is intended to be of general informational use and is not intended to constitute medical advice, probable diagnosis, or recommended treatments. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for mo