
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 09:58:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Know the Symptoms, How to Treat, and Prevent RSV, Croup, and Whooping Cough (Pertussis) in Toddlers and Babies HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Kids Health » Know the Symptoms, How to Treat, and Prevent RSV, Croup, and Whooping Cough (Pertussis) in Toddlers and Babies 76 rate or flag By ThePracticalMommy Washing hands is key to prevention of so many illnesses. Source: ThePracticalMommy with aid of Microsoft Royalty Free Images Kids and Illnesses If you have kids or are around children on a regular basis, you are very aware of a single truth: at any moment, an illness can strike. Children are very susceptible to illnesses, especially at young ages, as their immune systems are not mature yet. Knowing the symptoms of illnesses, as well as treatments and prevention, is key in keeping your children healthy. Below is a list of three common childhood illnesses, their symptoms, their treatments and prevention. RSV: Symptoms and Why It Can Be Dangerous for Infants Fevers in Children When the body raises it’s temperature above normal levels, above 98.6°F on average, it results in a fever. A fever is sometimes a sign that the body is fighting off something; it is not an illness itself. It can also result from basic changes in body temperature during the day, from working out, sleeping, playing, etc. For infants only a few weeks old, though, a fever can be a serious matter, especially if it is above 100°F rectally. If your baby has a fever at that age, call the doctor right away. For older babies and children, it’s recommended that you call the doctor if the fever is 102°F or higher. Your doctor will determine what to do dependent on your child’s behavior and activity level. For fevers lower than 102°F, it’s often recommended to give plenty of fluids and let the fever pass or to give plenty of fluids and acetaminophen or ibuprofen. RSV and Kids: Symptoms, Treatment, and Prevention Symptoms : RSV, or respitory syncytial virus is an infection of the lungs. It is very common in children ages 0-2, but can affect older children as well. This illness begins like the common cold , with a runny nose, and a mild fever. For infants with underdeveloped lungs or young children who don’t fight off infections well, these cold symptoms turn to rapid breathing, bouts of coughing, irritability that is more than a cranky episode, and a possible wheezing when coughing or trying to breathe. It’s best to call your doctor if these symptoms persist without seeming to get better. Note: If your child seems to be in distress, immediately call the doctor, especially if breathing increases to around 50-60 breaths per minute. If untreated and your child gets worse, the RSV could turn to pneumonia or bronchiolitis, a swelling of the smallest air passages of the lungs . Treatments : Just like with a normal cold, it is recommended that you use a cool mist humidifier , provide lots of fluids to the sick child, keep the child as comfortable as possible, and give acetaminophen (like Tylenol) as directed. If your child experiences a sore throat, you can simply offer him/her honey, as long as he/she is older than one year old. Honey is not recommended for children younger than one as they may have a reaction to the spores that occur naturally in honey. It is not recommended to give any cough suppressant or other cold medicines to children under the age of six as they have not been proven effective for that age group. Prevention : Keep your children healthy by teaching them to wash their hands each time they cough in their hands or blow their little noses (parents should do the same!). It is also recommended to use a cool mist humidifier during the winter months as it helps to keep the nasal passages moist and makes for easier breathing during the dry winter months. Just be sure to clean it properly as harmful bacteria and mold can grow within the unit. Croup and At-Home-Treatments Did You Know? Croup Can Occur in Fall AND Winter! Croup can occur in fall, before the other respitory illnesses generally appear in the general population. Why? Croup can sometimes be brought on by allergies, which are common in fall due to the falling leaves and the mold that can grow on the leaves if they become damp on the ground. My Son and His First Episode of Croup The fall after my son turned one, he developed a cold, just like any other cold--runny nose, coughing, slight fever. He was still running around, playing like he would any day. It wasn't until the nighttime that his cough changed. He awoke in the middle of the night, with a persistent, loud barking cough. It was so scary since I had never experienced it before and the doctor wasn’t available. Yet, the next morning, after taking some Tylenol, he was okay, playing and running around. My husband and I went to work, and my son went to my mom's house, all of us thinking he was well. While at my mom’s, he started showing signs of distress when he was breathing. She took him to the doctor (prior to this episode, we had given our doctor a signed note saying my mom could take him when we couldn’t be there) who sent him immediately to the hospital for a breathing treatment. I had to rush home from work to sit with my son in a hospital bed as he wore a little mask on his face. He looked so sad. It broke my heart to see such my tiny little child so sad. Along with the mask, he had an oxygen monitor on his finger checking the content of oxygen in his blood. He had to get x-rays and wait until his oxygen level was steady at 100%. After a few hours of the breathing treatment and determining that his oxygen level was okay, he was placed on antibiotics and sent home. Croup and Kids—Symptoms, Treatment, and Prevention Symptoms: Croup, or laryngo-tracheo-bronchitis, is a scary illness for a parent to witness (see my story). It can be caused by a virus or bacterial infection of the respitory tract, meaning it could be caused by an illness like RSV or other illnesses. As a viral infection, it causes inflammation of vocal chords and surrounding tissue. There may or may not be a fever, depending on what illness has brought on the croup. Sudden attacks most likely happen in the middle of the night, giving your child a barking cough (think: seal bark), a hard time breathing, and a very hoarse voice, which are scary things to deal with in the middle of the night when your doctor is most likely not in his/her office. Note: If your child experiences the above symptoms plus is blue from the lack of proper breathing, take him/her to the nearest emergency room immediately. It means that he/she is not getting enough oxygen from breathing and that there may be possible swelling in the throat from the illness. Treatment: Just like for RSV, it is recommended to use a cool-mist humidifier, but it is also helpful to run a hot shower and let your child breathe in the steam. Try to keep your child comfortable, which may include giving acetaminophen as directed for pain from coughing. Fluids should be encouraged to keep the throat moist. Again, it is not recommended that you give any sort of cough or cold medicine to any child under the age of six. If the croup is severe, it might be recommended by your doctor that your child receive breathing treatments from the hospital. The breathing treatment is usually a simple mist that is emitted from a mask worn by the child. Steroids are sometimes prescribed, depending on how severe the throat is swollen due to the illness. X-rays are usually done to determine the severity of the swollen throat and to detect any traces of possible pneumonia. Prevention —The prevention for this illness would be the same for RSV. Wash hands, clean all surfaces touched regularly to clean away any viruses , and try to use a cool mist humidifier on a regular basis. Also, if you are aware your child is sick, keep him/her away from other children or adults until he/she is feeling better. Whooping Cough/Pertussis Video: Hear How the Cough Sounds When a Child Has Whooping Cough Awesome Reference for Parents Your Baby's First Year Week by Week An awesome book to guide you through your child's first year! I used it for both of my children as a reference. Amazon Price: $5.69 List Price: $16.95 Whooping Cough and Kids—Symptoms, Treatment, and Prevention Symptoms: Whooping cough, also known as pertussis , is a contagious bacterial infection that is once again on the rise. It affects the lungs, bronchial tubes and larynx. It is known for the ‘whooping’ sound a child would make as he/she is coughing. The illness starts out as a regular cold, with a runny or stuffy nose, but then progresses to forceful coughing along with the whooping sound. The coughing is usually a dry cough (without mucous). There may also be a fever, loss of appetite and irritability. Treatment : At home, the best you can do is provide plenty of fluids, encourage your child to rest and give acetaminophen or ibuprofen as directed. Keep the child away from any babies or infants—babies or infants who contract the infection can develop a secondary infection or pneumonia, which can be deadly for a baby. Once you believe your child has this illness, call your doctor right away. He/she will most likely provide antibiotics to treat the illness. Prevention : Prevention for this illness is again like the prevention of the other illnesses: proper washing of hands and proper cleaning of surfaces touched by those infected. The real prevention for this illness should be easy; it comes in the form of a vaccine that is typically given to children at a young age. The vaccine is the DTaP : it’s a vaccine that is given as a series starting when children are two months old. The reason why whooping cough is on the rise is for two reasons: 1. some parents are choosing not to vaccinate their children for various personal reasons and 2. doctors are discovering that adults that have had the vaccine as children are no longer as protected by their childhood vaccination as much. In fact, many hospitals and doctors are offering the vaccine to new parents after they have had a baby to protect the baby before he/she is able to get the vaccine. Why? Whooping cough can be deadly to infants and young babies. It is also recommended that any family members or caregivers who will be around the baby should get an updated vaccine. Source: ThePracticalMommy with aid of Microsoft Royalty Free Images Know the Symptoms, Know How to Treat, Learn How to Prevent: Keep Your Kids Healthy! Just by being aware of the symptoms of these common childhood illnesses, how to treat them and prevention of them, you may be able to keep your children healthy during the fall and winter months. Remember: sometimes you may not be sure about some of the symptoms or how to treat them. If you are unsure, don't try to diagnose your child on your own. Call your doctor and ask. He or she will be able to determine, based on the symptoms you tell them, whether or not it is necessary to medically treat your child. Also, remember to follow all directions when dispensing any kind of medication, whether it be over the counter or prescribed. Sources: Curtis, Glade B. and Judith Schuler. Your Baby's First Year Week by Week . Da Capo Lifelong; Cambridge, 2010. WebMD (.com) kidshealth (.org) ©ThePracticalMommy 2012 More Hubs by ThePracticalMommy How to Make a Simple Bird Feeder with a Recycled Milk Carton or Jug: Great Craft for Kids! (Video) Make a simple bird feeder from a milk carton, container or plastic  gallon jug! - 4 weeks ago Parent’s Guide to Declutter Your Home: Ideas & Tips for Decluttering and Organizing Toys & Kids Playthings Do you feel like toys have taken over your life? - 5 months ago What Not to Do When Potty Training Your Toddler: Tips and Tricks There are many articles on the Internet about how to train your toddler to use the potty, but what about tips of what not to do when potty training your toddler? - 7 weeks ago What Can I Do or Say When My Family or Relatives Discipline My Children? What can you do when a grandparent or other relative disciplines your child? - 2 weeks ago vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful (5) Funny Awesome (2) Beautiful Interesting (3) Health Tips: MDA and the Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon: The Annual Telethon for the Muscular Dystrophy Association Health Tips: How to Lose Pregnancy Weight and Be Healthy : With Review of EA Sports Active 2 Comments Loading... Go to last comment Sunshine625 Level 8 Commenter 3 months ago Outstanding informative hub Marissa! I'm going to share this article with my daughter and stepdaughter so they know what signs to look for with my grandbabies! Thank you for creating this hub of awesomeness! Wishing all kids good health:) ThePracticalMommy Hub Author 3 months ago Sunshine625, thanks so much! I try to be as updated as possible with childhood illnesses as the health of my kids is very, very important to me. :) I appreciate that you're going to share it! Thanks again for reading! leahlefler Level 6 Commenter 3 months ago This is a great hub. My older son had RSV when he was 15 months old and it was so frightening. His daycare called and I picked him up - he only had a slight fever at the time. I took him to the pediatrician, and by the time we were in the exam room he was having difficulty breathing and was unresponsive. The scariest moment of my life! Some of these viruses can be so nasty! ThePracticalMommy Hub Author 3 months ago leahlefler, that is a scary story! I couldn't imagine seeing my child unresponsive. These viruses certainly can be nasty, especially for babies. Thanks so much for reading and sharing your story! Simone Smith Level 8 Commenter 3 months ago Great, great advice! Until last week, I hadn't even known about these sicknesses. Even though I rarely work with kids, it's good to know what commonly ails them and what one should do when these illnesses sneak up! Allana Calhoun Level 3 Commenter 3 months ago Excellent info! I am still confused as to why so many parents are jumping on the bandwagon of not vaccinating their children. The evidence that vaccines causes autism is not hardcore proof. And there are so many other factors in the environment today that could play a part in the cause so I don't think they can narrow it down to just vaccines as of yet. Over-medication has been a problem of focus off and on in the media. I for one, do not believe in the combination cold & cough medicines unless my child is actually suffering from all conditions covered on the label. I usually stock each individual type of meds (decongestant, cough, etc.) and then only give them what they need for the symptom they are experiencing. ThePracticalMommy Hub Author 3 months ago Simone Smith, I'm glad you liked the advice! Thanks for stopping by to read. :) Allana Calhoun, I agree with you on both points: vaccines are important and we as parents need to be very cautious about medicating our children. We want them to be healthy, not to make matters worse for them! Thanks for reading and commenting. :) Eiddwen Level 8 Commenter 3 months ago A great hub which so many Mums will find helpful. Thank you for sharing . Take care and enjoy your day. Eddy. ThePracticalMommy Hub Author 3 months ago Eddy, thanks so much for reading and for your comment! :) alissaroberts Level 5 Commenter 3 months ago Very useful info for parents of little ones! So thankful my boys have never had any of these but am happy to learn the symptoms if we ever have to deal with it in the future. Great hub - voted up, useful, and tweeting! ThePracticalMommy Hub Author 2 months ago Alissaroberts, I hope you never have to deal with any of these illnesses in the future, but if you do it is a good idea to know the symptoms and treatments. I wish I knew about croup before my son had it! It would have been reassuring to know what to do for him.  Thanks so much for reading, commenting and tweeting! missolive Level 7 Commenter 2 months ago ThePracticalMommy - Another outstanding and informative hub Marissa. I am always confident you have done your research. This information will be helpful to many moms, caretakers and teachers. All of us need to be more aware of our little ones and not dismiss any symptoms. Thank you for creating this hub and sharing your knowledge. voted up, useful and interesting ThePracticalMommy Hub Author 2 months ago missolive, I really appreciate your comment, especially "All of us need to be more aware of our little ones and not dismiss any symptoms." How important that is! Dismissing symptoms in young children, particularly toddlers and babies, can lead to more serious complications. We don't want that for our kids! Thanks so much for reading and commenting! :) Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 98 ThePracticalMommy From Somewhere in the East United States 672 Followers 63 Hubs Joined 13 months ago Read more Hubs by ThePracticalMommy Related Hubs Whooping Cough Treatment in Infants by blessedmom All about Whooping Cough – aka Pertussis (can cause... by paradigmsearch Whooping Cough Treatment in Adults by blessedmom Whooping Cough Symptoms and Treatment by Jennifer Ann A Guide to Health and Safety for Children - When to Call... by alissaroberts Does my Son Have ADHD? Help With ADHD Symptoms by Dorsi Answers The Question Weekly Topic Inspiration: Children's Health asked by Simone Smith 3 months ago 29 answers Answer this question Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. te