Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
Set-Cookie: mt=pagetitle=&rid=17119; path=/
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By-Plesk: PleskWin
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 08:32:35 GMT
Connection: close

Skin Healing Properties Of Aloe Vera The Story of Natural Elements | Bath and Body Guide | Natural Ingredients | FAQs | Testimonials 0 Product(s) in cart | Total $0.00 | View cart 15% OFF all Orders with our Membership - FREE Spa Bath Pillow above $50 Skin Healing Properties Of Aloe Vera Aloe vera is widely considered a medicinal plant and has been used for its beneficial properties as far back as 2000 BC by the ancient Sumerians. The prickly plant is grown in many parts of the world today and is thought to have its true origins in the African country Sudan. It thrives in tropical climates that allow regular exposure to sunlight, adequate levels of humidity and the right combination of dry and wet weather patterns. Hawaii, with its advantageous position in the tropics, is now one of the world's greatest producers of the aloe vera. Since its introduction to the islands the natives have exploited it for its favorable characteristics, much in the same way as the peoples of India and Africa. Its use by practitioners of alternative and herbal medicine has increased over the years because of the positive effects the plant has on a variety of illnesses and less serious complaints. With today's technology scientists are able to identify the compounds that have given it its reputation for promoting good health. While ancient peoples may not have understood why the aloe vera worked as well as it did, its practical uses are undoubtedly of great significance. Appearance and Characteristics of Aloe Vera The aloe vera looks almost like a cactus, with prickly edges, a green hard exterior and a surface filled with white minuscule thorns in some varieties. Additionally it is able to store copious amounts of water in its roots and leaves, a feature it also shares with the desert dwelling cactus. Yet the aloe vera is, in actuality, a lily according to biological classification. The plant does not grow on stems, although some species do produce a very short stem-like structure. In the summer time the dense leaves sprout tubular yellow flowers from its large spikes that may grow to an impressive height of 35 inches. The plant shares a symbiotic relationship with the soil which allows it to uptake an optimal amount of mineral and other nutrients. It appears in a number of shades from gray to bright green and is often used as an ornamental plant because of its unique features. Historical Uses of Aloe Vera The aloe vera has been utilized by ancient civilizations for more than 2 millennia. Egyptians and Sumerians are some of the first known users of this highly potent plant. It is said that Cleopatra kept her skin beautiful and soft by applying the viscous liquid that it naturally produces to her skin as a regular part of her daily routine. It was also widely employed by the Chinese and the peoples of Greece and India. Its use as a wound healer is generally considered one of its many earlier functions. Before conventional antibiotics and other chemical preparations to prevent contamination of wounds, the aloe vera was applied directly to injured areas to accelerate healing. The first fully developed records of its use were derived from a Roman pharmacologist, known as Dioscorides who utilized the plant extensively to treat the injuries of soldiers. The leaf was crushed and then applied directly to wounds to prevent the loss of excessive amounts of blood. A salve was also created from the plant that was placed on minor cuts and bruises and boils. The plant was also taken orally to promote a full cleanse of the stomach and intestines and even to encourage relaxation and sleep. Beneficial Properties of Aloe Vera The aloe vera is still one of the more dynamic plants known to inhabit the earth. It is enriched with minerals and several other compounds which promote healing and better overall health. One such compound, mannan has been demonstrated to enhance immunity. In addition it contains a long chain of polysaccharides that have the ability to cleanse and improve the body's preliminary defense system. Thus, the use of aloe vera makes the body less susceptible to opportunistic pathogens like bacteria and viruses. Other compounds found in the plant's structure that exhibit advantageous characteristics include lectins and anthraquinones. The plant is still used as a wound healer, a treatment for burns, skin infections, cysts and diabetes and also has the ability to lower bad cholesterol. Additionally, ingestion of the plant relieves heartburn, arthritic pain and asthma. It is also a suggested treatment for stomach ulcers, indigestion and liver and kidney disease. Aloe Vera Uses in Skin Care Aloe vera is just as beneficial when applied topically as it is when taken orally. Regular use of aloe vera lotion made with the wonder plant leaves skin softer, radiant and less prone to unwanted skin maladies. Aloe vera gel is an ideal moisturizer. It keeps skin supple and prevents over drying. Used under make-up skin absorbs the pigments completely without the appearance of cracks or an uneven finish. It is also a great remedy for acne prone skin. Its anti-inflammatory properties diminish the redness and puffiness associated with acne. Because it promotes healing, acne suffers will notice fewer break outs and skin that is less oily. Aloe vera is also a fantastic ingredient that can be used to fight aging. As skin matures, lines and wrinkles will form as it loses natural elasticity. Because the aloe vera is rich in minerals and vitamins C and E, using preparations containing this extract will keep skin hydrated while reducing the signs of aging. It is also a great treatment for sunburns and is often applied directly to the skin to restore moisture and accelerate recovery time. It is no wonder that ancient people revered the incredibly useful plant. Its ability to promote faster healing, improve skin texture and overall well being continues to be tested with very positive results. Hawaiians are blessed to live in a tropical paradise that produces some of the world's most exquisite plants. The natives, who are natural adventurers, have made use of the manifold varieties in existence on the islands and have thus encountered many of its beneficial properties. The favorable extracts derived from the plant have become a worthwhile addition to many beauty preparations and will likely gain more popularity over the coming years. You might also be interested in these other natural skin care articles: Natural Skin Care Products | Natural Anti-Aging Skin Care | Natural Dry Skin Remedies | Hawaiian Skin Care | Organic Skin Care | Plant and Nut Oils for Skin Care | Essential Oils | Tropical Aromatherapy | Natural Skin Care made in Hawaii | Botanical Skin Care | Skin Exfoliation | Hawaiian Beauty Secrets | Hawaiian Stone Therapy | History of the Hawaiian Kukui Tree | History of the Hawaiian Coconut | History of Shea Butter | History of the Macadamia Nut Tree | Hawaiian Sun Protection | Keeping your Skin Healthy on Vacation All content protected by Walton Internet Law - Copyright strictly enforced - Do not reproduce without prior written permission Natural Elements Online Store Bath and Body Collections Tropical Lotions Body Washes Tropical Body Butters Tropical Body Oils Hawaiian Bath Salts Body Scrubs Hawaiian Shampoos Hawaiian Conditioners Hawaiian Perfumes Men's Bath and Body Products Hawaiian Sun Care Products Tropical Body Creams Coconut Soaps Tropical Bath Soaps Healing Surfer Salves Bath and Body Travel Bags Lip Balm Sticks Coconut Products Gardenia Products Mango Coconut Products Passion Fruit Products Pikake Products Plumeria Products Vanilla Products White Ginger Products Hawaiian Lotions Hawaiian Bath and Shower Gel Hawaiian Fragrances Hawaiian Natural Soaps Hawaiian Skin Scrubs Hawaiian Body Moisturizers Hawaiian Botanical Lotions Gift Baskets Membership Clearance Articles Hawaiian Natural Bath and Body Hawaiian Natural Skin Care Hawaiian Holistic Healing Learn About Hawaii Hawaiian History Discover Hawaii Hawaii Island by Island Customer Services Natural Elements Special Offer Natural Elements Policy Contact us Useful Links Sitemap Link to Us Advertise with Us ©