Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

NewVera - Organic Aloe Vera - only £23.99 - No Preservatives - No Added Water Our 
          sister website click to enter ----------------------------------------------- online shop ------------------------- Etherium Gold Ginseng+ Passion 
            Flower+ Saw 
            Palmetto+ Probiotic Digestamin 
            & Feelin Good Echinacea 
            Formula Glucosamine 
            Plus Hawaiian 
            Noni Maximol 
            & Maximol Classic Junior 
            Maximol Ming 
            Gold NewVera Orbitol 
            - eye health Omega 
            3 EPA Orachel Orachel 
            for Kids ParaFree Puri-Tea Revenol 
            & Cascading 
            Revenol Thermogenic 
            Blend ALOE 
                VERA - A TRULY AMAZING PLANT • A valuable source of natural antioxidants. • Promotes a sense of general well being. • Supports the immune system’s natural defences. • No added water. • No artificial preservatives, flavours or colouring. • All naturally sourced ingredients. Aloe vera has 
                been known to benefit health for thousands of years. The first 
                recorded use of this plant, a member of the lily family, was around 
                1500BC in Mesopotamia. The Egyptians and Greeks have also recorded 
                its use as a treatment for burns, wounds, and infections. There are 200 
                varieties of Aloe but only four have nutritional benefit. It grows 
                in dry areas in Africa, Asia, America and Europe. Aloe vera has 
                undergone much research over the years which has been able to 
                prove the amazing health benefits of this cactus-like plant. Over 
                200 active compounds have been identified including a range of 
                vitamins and minerals, enzymes, essential fatty acids and polysaccharides. Aloe vera is 
                able to modify the immune system which may help prevent immune 
                system diseases such as Rheumatoid Arthritis or Lupus Erythematosus. 
                Also, with a strengthened immune system, our bodies are better 
                equipped to deal with the hundreds of pre-cancerous cells we manufacture 
                each day. In the U.S, 
                Aloe vera has been approved for the treatment of soft tissue cancers 
                in animals and also for the treatment of leukaemia in cats. Studies 
                have shown that the large polysaccharide molecules from Aloe vera 
                produce Tumour Necrosis Factor, which enables the body to shut 
                off the blood supply to tumours. This offers great potential for 
                the treatment of human cancer in the future and it is already 
                being used to treat AIDS in Europe. Aloe vera has 
                also been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties (salicylic 
                acid) which may help conditions such as arthritis and inflammatory 
                bowel conditions eg Crohn’s Disease. People suffering with 
                gastric reflux have also found benefit from sipping Aloe vera 
                juice as it quickly reduces the burning sensation by neutralising 
                the acid. Known as an 
                adaptogen, Aloe vera is able to recognise the differing needs 
                of the body. It has been found to lower high blood pressure, yet 
                is also able to increase low blood pressure to normal levels. 
                Those suffering with constipation find that Aloe vera helps to 
                increase bowel movements, yet those with diarrhoea find that it 
                reduces them. Diabetics have 
                also found that their blood sugar levels are better controlled 
                when taking Aloe vera, therefore reducing insulin or hypoglycaemic 
                medication. This is due to the polysaccharides in Aloe vera which 
                allow insulin to bind more efficiently to its receptor sites in 
                the body. Other benefits 
                include improved blood and lymph circulation which help to remove 
                toxins more efficiently from the body, and improved wound healing 
                with less incidence of infection. There are now 
                many suppliers of Aloe vera but they vary in the quality of their 
                product. It is therefore important to find a high quality product 
                to receive maximum benefit. The liquid preparation should contain 
                at least 90% Aloe juice, be totally organic, be free of preservatives 
                or artificial colours, flavours or sweeteners and not be diluted 
                with water. Neways have 
                developed a high quality Aloe vera preparation called NewVera. 
                It is a comprehensive and powerful blend of Aloe vera barbadensis, 
                the most beneficial of all types of Aloe vera, and is grown in 
                organic soil rich in nutrients, carefully harvested and immediately 
                refrigerated to maintain freshness. NewVera contains 92% Aloe 
                juice plus other natural herbal extracts to support the body’s 
                defence mechanisms. It contains no artificial ingredients but 
                instead has the added benefits of natural honey, maté, 
                fennel, bilberry, angelica, orange, lemon, grape skin and grape 
                seed teas. This makes NewVera one of the best tasting and nutritious 
                Aloe vera drinks available on the market. Sue 
                Bedford www.healthychoices.ukhq.co.uk Neways 
                Nutritional free 
                from additives, preservatives & added water Organic 
                NewVera ® natural 
                aloe vera blend Ingredients: Water, Aloe Vera Gel (38%), Honey, Pear Juice Concentrate, Aloe Vera Polysachharides, Natural Berry Flavour, Blueberry Juice Concentrate, Citric Acid, Xanthan Gum, Natural Preservatives, Grape Seed Extract, Dong Quai Root, Mate Leaf Extract, Fennel Seed Tea, Bilberry Fruit Extract, Grape Skin Extract, Lemon Peel, Orange Peel. Usage: Take 30ml daily . size 
                      - 1000ml RRP 
                      - £27.70 NOW - £23.99 code - 1868GB NewVera is a comprehensive and powerful blend of aloe vera plus other 
                    natural herbal extracts to support the bodies own defence 
                    mechanism. The aloe vera plant is native to Africa and has 
                    succulent fleshy green leaves from which a host of important 
                    uses emerge. Over 200 types of aloe plant are grown, but only 
                    four are suitable for use in supplements. Aloe Vera Barbadensis 
                    is the most beneficial of all; which is why Neways have chosen 
                    to use this for our NewVera. The aloe plant is grown in organic 
                    soil rich in nutrients, carefully harvested and immediately 
                    refrigerated to maintain freshness. A high temperature, short 
                    time pasteurisation process ensures the aloe’s active 
                    principles remain effective. With the added benefits of natural 
                    honey, matè, fennel, bilberry, angelica, orange, lemon, 
                    grape skin and grape seed teas. Disclaimer: The information on www.newhuman.co.uk is intended solely for 
        educational and informational purposes and not as medical advice. We cannot 
        advise you on any illness, but we can guide people on how to maintain 
        health. Please consult a 'qualified' medical or health professional if you have queries about your health (Doctors are not nutritionists. 
        In fact they only do one day of nutrition in 7 years training). 
        Although the nutritional supplements and herbs mentioned here have been 
        proven safe, the author of this website does not accept any liability 
        should you choose to self-prescribe and become more healthy, vital and 
        happy. All supplements and devices should be kept out of the reach of 
        infants, young children and politicians. The information on this website 
        can be freely distributed as long as the website address and the authors 
        name are attached to it. All rights reserved. ©Copyright Hugh 
        Newman 2005 / 2012 & beyond..... Web Design Hugh Newman www.newhuman.co.uk & Shaun Kirwan www.clearlightdesigns.com Crop circle design 'The