
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 09:09:36 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Valerian Root - Clinical Research and Analysis for the natural sedative Valerian Root Bookmark Us View Cart | Order Tracking | My Account | Contact Us | About Us Home Product Family Clinical
          Research Success
          Stories Healthcare
          Providers Order 5-HTP Acetyl L Carnitine American Ginseng Rhodiola Rosea Bacopa Choline DMAE GABA German Chamomile Hops Inositol Lecithin Lemon Balm Magnesium Melatonin Passion Flower Winter Cherry Rosehips SAM-e St. John's Wort Valerian Vitamin C Zinc Clarocet Essential-b Valerian Root (Valeriana Officinalis) The root of Valerian, a tall perennial herb with white to pinkish-purple flowers, is used as a natural sedative to relax the Central Nervous System (CNS). Valerian  can help to alleviate occasional nervoussness, nervous tension, anxiety and panic attacks in moderate doses. Elevated doses of Valerian Root relieve occasional sleep difficulty. Valerian Root is formulated into these Clarocet products: Clarocet
                NRI , Clarocet ERT , Clarocet PM A Brief Introduction to Valerian Root Valerian Root is a tall perennial herb whose name comes from the Latin word valere , meaning well-being . Traditionally, Valerian Root has been prescribed as a natural sedative that works to relax the Central Nervous System (CNS) in moderate doses and promotes healthy sleep function when administered in higher doses. In modern research studies, the active components of Valerian Root have been shown to provide positive support for: Occasional nervousness, nervous tension, and anxiety Depressed mood and mild to moderate mood changes caused by everyday stress Restlessness and occasional sleep difficulty Valerian Root has been clinically shown to promote relaxation, emotional balance and sleep wellness within between 1 to 30 days of continued use. How Valerian Root is Thought to Work Scientists have isolated over 150 phytochemical components from the rootstock of Valerian Root since the early 1900s. There are at least 2 primary compounds as well as other amino acid constituents that are thought to exhibit a sedative effect in Central Nervous System (CNS): Valerenic Acids (valerenic acid, hydroxy valerenic acid, acethoxy valerenic acid and valerenal) Valepotriates (valtrate, isovaltrate, acevaltrate, didrovaltrate) GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid) Tyrosine, Arginine, and Glutamine Pharmacological research suggests that together, these components naturally inhibit enzyme-induced GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid) breakdown in the brain, although, the precise mechanism of action has yet to be defined. In human clinical trials Valerian Root has been shown to occasional nervousness, nervous tension, and anxiety in moderate doses. Higher doses of Valerian Root are often used to promote healthy sleep function. Results of further analysis indicate that Valerian Root can also help to support a positive mood balance. Research has demonstrated that neither single nor repeated evening administrations of Valerian Root have a negative impact on reaction time, alertness or concentration the day after use. Valerian Root  Safety and Usage Valerian Root maintains an excellent safety profile when it is used as directed. A 150mg-200mg dose is recommended for the relief of occasional nervousness, nervous tension, and anxiety. In cases of occasional sleep difficulty, a higher dose of 300mg-600mg is recommended. When taken in combination with other natural sedatives, a lower dose of 150 - 200mg of Valerian Root is sufficient. What are the potential side effects of Valerian Root? Side effects are rare and have been documented as mild to moderate in clinical study. They may include headache, gastrointestinal discomfort, drowsiness, dizziness or sleep difficulty. In the event that you experience an adverse reaction, discontinue use of this herb. Valerian Root does not cause withdrawal or discontinuation effects. Does Valerian Root adversely interact with prescription drugs? Taking Valerian Root in combination with prescription medications such as benzodiazepines, SSRIs, or SNRIs may cause drowsiness. If you are taking a prescription medication, it is recommended that you consult with your prescribing doctor before making any changes or additions to your current treatment plan. Precautions and Safety For Users Taking Valerian Root Consult with your healthcare provider before beginning a wellness plan that includes dietary supplements like Valerian Root Do not take Valerian Root if you are pregnant or nursing Do not take Valerian Root if you are currently taking a prescription MAOI Do not operate vehicles or heavy machinery until you know how Valerian Root affects you Is Valerian Root safe for children? Clinical study data in children is limited and Valerian Root should not be administered without the supervision of a professional healthcare provider. Back to Top Frequently Asked Questions : What is Clarocet NRI? Which Clarocet is right for me? How do Clarocet products differ from other natural alternatives? Can I take Clarocet NRI with my other herbal supplements? Related Destinations : Everyone is unique. That's why we've formulated multiple products and designed them to work together. Which Clarocet is right for you ? Find Clarocet products based on your primary wellness concerns. Have other people had success using Clarocet products? You bet they have! Browse through Clarocet success stories online or listen to real people, with real experiences share their Clarocet success stories with you. Visit the Clarocet Online Store to learn more about package types, shipping options and the latest discount specials. Do you have questions? We have answers. Contact a Medicor Labs Customer Agent who can help, today. Clarocet Official Website USA | Clarocet Official Website UK/EU | Distribute Clarocet | Contact | Directory Anxiety | Depression | Focus | Mental Sharpness | Mood Swings | Panic Attacks | Sleep Difficulty Talking to Your Doctor | Teen Wellness | Child Wellness ©        1997
        - 2008  Medicor Labs Corporation. All Right Reserved. Terms
       and Conditions of Use This website does not provide medical advice. Clarocet products are dietary supplements that are not approved by the FDA to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. The health benefits of 
Clarocet products are supported by independent clinical evaluation. Clarocet products are 
formulated using a combination of natural ingredients that are FDA-regulated. Consult with a physician if you believe you are experiencing emotional stress responses such as anxiety, generalized anxiety, social anxiety, panic attacks, depression, mood swings, sleep difficulty or  problems focusing and concentrating. Only a qualified healthcare professional can provide y