
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:00:48 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 21:00:48 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Whooping Cough - Pertussis - What Is Pertussis - What is Whooping Cough About.com Health Cold & Flu Cold & Flu Search Cold / Flu Symptoms/Diagnosis Treatment Flu Shot Facts Share Free Cold & Flu Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum What Is Pertussis/Whooping Cough? What Is Pertussis? By Kristina Duda, R.N. , About.com Guide Updated June 16, 2009 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: coughs vaccines common cold symptoms Could it be Whooping Cough? Photo © Stockbyte/Getty What Is Pertussis (Whooping Cough)? Pertussis, or whooping cough, is a bacterial infection that causes a person to have severe coughing fits.  The cough can be so bad that it may cause the person to choke or vomit. The name “whooping cough” comes from the sound that is made when a breath is taken after a coughing spell. What Are the Symptoms? Pertussis usually begins with symptoms similar to those of a common cold , such as runny nose, congestion, sneezing, watery eyes and mild fevers. Unlike the common cold which typically lasts a week to 10 days, these symptoms will last for about two weeks in individuals with pertussis who have not been vaccinated. These symptoms may not last as long in people who have been vaccinated. Next, a dry hacking cough will start and will progress to prolonged coughing spasms. These coughing spasms can be so violent that it is difficult for the person to catch their breath and vomiting may occur. Coughing spells are often followed by a loud “whoop” noise made when the person finally catches their breath. Typically, this stage lasts anywhere between 2 to 6 weeks. Potential complications of pertussis include pneumonia, emphysema, weight loss (due to poor feeding), vomiting, bleeding in the brain (cerebral hemorrhage), seizures and -- rarely -- infection of the lining of the brain (encephalitis). How Does it Affect Children? Pertussis is most severe in infants, especially those under three months of age. Children under 3 months who have pertussis will be hospitalized and many between 3 to 6 months will be hospitalized as well. In young infants, the “whooping” sound may not be as obvious or may not be heard at all. However, the disease is more serious in young children because the child can actually suffocate from the coughing fits. Other complications in infants include seizures, ear infections and pneumonia. How Is Pertussis Treated? Because pertussis is a bacterial infection, it is treated with antibiotics. It is also highly contagious and family members of those with a confirmed case of pertussis may be treated with antibiotics as well. Anyone diagnosed with pertussis should be isolated for five days after starting antibiotics and exposure to infants younger than 3 months should be avoided. Pertussis was once prevalent in the United States and was one of the leading causes of death among young children. However, due to good immunization practices, it is now rare. Now, the disease seems to be increasing. It is thought that the immunizations given during childhood may not provide immunity for longer than 10 years, so new recommendations about adults receiving a booster vaccine have been added. Find out more about the combination tetanus and pertussis vaccine for adults. The Bottom Line Pertussis is much less common than it once was, but that doesn’t mean it is gone. Knowing the symptoms and how to prevent the illness may help save yourself or a loved one in the future. It is also important to know that the symptoms may not always be the same for older children and adults who have been vaccinated. Anytime you have a cough or other symptoms that seem especially severe or do not go away within a few days, it is important contact your healthcare provider. Sources: ”Pertussis (Whooping Cough).” Medical Library, Excerpted from Complete Medical Encyclopedia 2003. American Medical Association. 15 April 08. ”Whooping Cough.” Medical Encyclopedia 02 April 08. National Institutes of Health. 15 April 08. Readers Respond: Your Experience With Whooping Cough Read responses (3) Share Your Story Could it Be Whooping Cough? Evaluate Your Cough Common Cold Symptoms Interactive Symptom Checker Protect Yourself. Get Vaccinated Tetanus/Pertussis Vaccine Flu Vaccine Pneumonia Vaccine Related Articles Pertussis - The Return of Whooping Cough Pertussis Symptoms - Symptoms of Whooping Cough and Pertussis Pertussis Diagnosis and Testing Whooping Cough Pertussis Outbreak - California Pertussis Outbreak Kristina Duda, R.N. Cold & Flu Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches nose congestion cerebral hemorrhage whooping cough bleeding in the brain pertussis watery eyes Explore Cold & Flu Must Reads What Is the Cold/Flu? Symptoms of the Cold/Flu Diagnosing the Cold/Flu Treating the Cold/Flu Answers to Your Flu Shot Questions Most Popular Viral Infection Colds and Pregnancy Evaluate Cough Symptoms Weather and Illness Cough Medications See More About: coughs vaccines common cold symptoms By Category Common Cold Flu Prevention Check Your Symptoms See a Healthcare Provider Medication and Tools Vaccines Pneumonia Bronchitis Other Common Illnesses When Your Child is Sick Glossary Cold & Flu About.com Health Cold & Flu Other Common Illnesses Whooping Cough - Pertussis - What Is Pertussis - What is Whooping Cough Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod