Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 28 Nov 2006 02:29:20 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "58798929512c71:7119"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 02:50:00 GMT
Connection: close

drsami.com - Patient & Drug Information Low Back Pain What is low back pain? Low back 
					pain is pain and stiffness in the lower back. It is one of 
					the most common reasons people miss work. How does it occur? Low back 
					pain is usually caused when a ligament or muscle holding a 
					vertebra in its proper position is strained. Vertebrae are 
					bones that make up the spinal column through which the 
					spinal cord passes. When these muscles or ligaments become 
					weak, the spine loses its stability, resulting in pain. 
					Because nerves reach all parts of the body from the spinal 
					cord, back problems can lead to pain or weakness in almost 
					any part of the body. Low back 
					pain can occur if your job involves lifting and carrying 
					heavy objects, or if you spend a lot of time sitting or 
					standing in one position or bending over. It can be caused 
					by a fall or by unusually strenuous exercise. It can be 
					brought on by the tension and stress that cause headaches in 
					some people. It can even be brought on by violent sneezing 
					or coughing. People 
					who are overweight may have low back pain because of the 
					added stress on their back. Back pain 
					may occur when the muscles, joints, bones, and connective 
					tissues of the back become inflamed as a result of an 
					infection or an immune system problem. Arthritic disorders 
					as well as some congenital and degenerative conditions may 
					cause back pain. Back pain 
					accompanied by loss of bladder or bowel control, difficulty 
					in moving your legs, or numbness or tingling in your arms or 
					legs may indicate an injury to your spine and nerves, which 
					requires immediate medical treatment. What are the symptoms? Symptoms 
					include: pain in the back or legs stiffness and limited motion. The pain 
					may be continuous or may occur only in certain positions. It 
					may be aggravated by coughing, sneezing, bending, twisting, 
					or straining during a bowel movement. The pain may occur in 
					only one spot or may spread to other areas, most commonly 
					down the buttocks and into the back of the thigh. A low back 
					strain typically does not produce pain past the knee into 
					the calf or foot. Tingling or numbness in the calf or foot 
					may indicate a herniated disk or pinched nerve. Be sure 
					to see your health care provider if: You have weakness in your leg, especially if you cannot 
						lift your foot, because this may be a sign of nerve 
						damage. You have new bowel or bladder problems as well as back 
						pain, which may be a sign of severe injury to your 
						spinal cord. You have pain that gets worse despite treatment. How is it diagnosed? Your 
					health care provider will review your medical history and 
					examine you. He or she may order x-rays. In certain 
					situations a myelogram, CT scan, or MRI may be ordered. How is it treated? The 
					following are ways to treat low back pain: · Using a heating pad or hot water bottle. · Resting in bed on a firm mattress. Often it helps to lie 
						on your back with your knees raised. However, some 
						people prefer to lie on their side with their knees 
						bent. · Taking aspirin, ibuprofen, or other anti-inflammatory 
						medications; muscle relaxants; or other pain medications 
						if recommended by your health care provider. · Having your back massaged by a trained person. · Having traction, if recommended by your provider. · Wearing a belt or corset to support your back. · Talking with a counselor, if your back pain is related 
						to tension caused by emotional problems. · Beginning a program of physical therapy, or exercising 
						on your own. Begin a regular exercise program to gently 
						stretch and strengthen your muscles as soon as you can. 
						Your health care provider or physical therapist can 
						recommend exercises that will not only help you feel 
						better but will strengthen your muscles and help avoid 
						back trouble later. When the 
					pain subsides, ask your health care provider about starting 
					an exercise program such as the following: Exercise moderately every day, using stretching and 
						warm- up exercises suggested by your provider or 
						physical therapist. Exercise vigorously for about 30 minutes two or three 
						times a week by walking, swimming, using a stationary 
						bicycle, or doing low-impact aerobics. Participating regularly in an exercise program will not only 
					help your back, it will also help keep you healthier 
					overall. How long will the effects last? The 
					effects of back pain last as long as the cause exists or 
					until your body recovers from the strain, usually a day or 
					two but sometimes weeks. How can I take care of myself? In 
					addition to the treatment described above, keep in mind 
					these suggestions: Use an electric heating pad on a low setting (or a hot 
						water bottle wrapped in a towel to avoid burning 
						yourself) for 20 to 30 minutes. Don't let the heating 
						pad get too hot, and don't fall asleep with it. You 
						could get a burn. Try putting an ice pack wrapped in a towel on your back 
						for 20 minutes, one to four times a day. Set an alarm to 
						avoid frostbite from using the ice pack too long. Put a pillow under your knees when you are lying down. Sleep without a pillow under your head. Lose weight if you are overweight. Practice good posture. Stand with your head up, 
						shoulders straight, chest forward, weight balanced 
						evenly on both feet, and pelvis tucked in. Pain is 
					the best way to judge the pace you should set in increasing 
					your activity and exercise. Minor discomfort, stiffness, 
					soreness, and mild aches need not interfere with activity. 
					However, limit your activities temporarily if: Your symptoms return. The pain increases when you are more active. The pain increases within 24 hours after a new or 
						higher level of activity. What can I do to help prevent low back pain? You can 
					reduce the strain on your back by doing the following: Don't push with your arms when you move a heavy object. 
						Turn around and push backwards so the strain is taken by 
						your legs. Whenever you sit, sit in a straight-backed chair 
						and hold your spine against the back of the chair. Bend your knees and hips and keep your back straight 
						when you lift a heavy object. Avoid lifting heavy objects higher than your 
						waist. Hold packages you carry close to your body, with your 
						arms bent. Use a footrest for one foot when you stand or sit in one 
						spot for a long time. This keeps your back straight. Bend your knees when you bend over. Sit close to the pedals when you drive and use your seat 
						belt and a hard backrest or pillow. Lie on your side with your knees bent when you 
						sleep or rest. It may help to put a pillow between your 
						knees. Put a pillow under your knees when you sleep on 
						your back. Raise the foot of the bed 8 inches to discourage 
						sleeping on your stomach unless you have other problems 
						that require that you keep your head elevated. To rest 
					your back, hold each of these positions for 5 minutes or 
					longer: Lie on your back, bend your knees, and put pillows 
						under your knees. Lie on your back, put a pillow under your neck, bend 
						your knees to a 90-degree angle, and put your lower legs 
						and feet on a chair. Lie on your back, bend your knees, and bring one 
						knee up to your chest and hold it there. Repeat with the 
						other knee, then bring both knees to your chest. When 
						holding your knee to your chest, grab your thigh rather 