Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Tension Back Pain BACK PAIN DIAGNOSES MIND & BODY TREATMENTS RECOVERY [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Tension Back Pain I have been suffering from lower back shoulder blade, shoulder and neck pain for quite some time now.  It is all on the right side.  It originated in my lower back right side.  Then it worked it self up just below my shoulder blade.  Now it is along side my shoulder blade, into my neck and along my shoulder. I have had an MRI and X-rays.  The only found a little arthritis. I have been on muscle relaxers, been through physical therapy, acupuncture, chiropractic methods and most recently Neurology.  They inject my back with steroids every three months or so. However, it still persists.  Some days are better than others but it's chronic.  Its in-between dull and sharp.  It feels like my muscles will just not relax. I am probably 10-20 lbs over weight but I do exercise.  I can run on a treadmill easily.  I also weight lift more for tone than strength.  The pain does subside during the exercise but the muscles always tighten back up. For example, today I was cutting the grass.  My lower back started to tighten up.  I had to take two Excedrin back and body painkillers and lay down.  The pain subsided but the tension was still there. Its actual been a chronic issue for years now.  I am really discouraged because I am only 43 and feel like I am headed in the wrong direction permanently. - Michael Advertisement: Tension Back Pain to Lower Back Pain 10/24/10 ©2006-2012 no distribution, syndication or reproduction of any content allowed, punishable by law. SEARCH THE SITE Subscribe to our Free Newsletter! Your First Name Your E-mail Address Mission Statement Editorial Board Legal Privacy Policy Site Funding Disclosure Source Material Advisory :  This website is not intended to diagnose or treat any medical condition. Any medical condition should be referred to a qualified medical professional.  This website is designed to complement, but