Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Walnuts are a Source of Melatonin B LACKHERBALS.COM Walnuts are a Source of Melatonin, Shows Study www.foodnavigator.com 14/09/2005- The health-conferring benefits of
walnuts have been widely studied, but new research has shown that they are a
source of the antioxidant hormone melatonin. It indicates that consumption of
walnuts can boost blood levels of melatonin and antioxidants in rats. Melatonin is a hormone that is naturally produced in humans by the pineal gland.
It is most commonly associated with inducing and regulating sleep, since it is
produced during the hours of darkness. In the US, melatonin supplements are
commonly used by people whose sleep patterns are irregular, and those doing
shift work or suffering from jet lag. The new research was carried out at the University of Texas Health Science
Center and published in the September issue of Nutrition . The researchers set out to investigate whether melatonin is present in
walnuts, and whether eating walnuts has an effect on levels of melatonin and
antioxidants in the blood. First, they extracted melatonin from walnuts and quantified it using HPLC
(high-performance liquid chromatography). The amount of melatonin in the nuts
was found to be between 2.5 and 4.5 nanograms per gram. The researchers then fed either walnuts or regular chow to rats, after having
restricted their diet prior to the study. Their serum melatonin levels and
‘total antioxidant power’ were measured. The walnuts were seen to increase blood melatonin concentrations threefold in
the rats that ate them, compared with those on the regular chow. Serum
antioxidant power also increased. Lead researcher Russel Reiter said: "Our studies demonstrate that
walnuts contain melatonin, that it is absorbed when it is eaten, and that it
improves our ability to resist oxidative stress caused by toxic molecules called
free radicals." Although it is not clear how many walnuts humans would need to eat in order
to benefit, in theory they might be expected to reduce the incidence of cancer,
delay or make less severe neurodegenerative diseases of aging, including
Parkinsonism, Alzheimer's disease and reduce the severity of cardiovascular
disease, said Reiter. Melatonin produced by the human body decreases with age. The study raises the
question as to whether there may be a link between declining melatonin and the
development of free-radical-related diseases in later life. The omega-3 content of walnuts has already been shown to help reduce the risk
of heart disease. Reiter maintains that the synergistic effect of omega-3,
melatonin and other nutrients give walnuts the edge over a supplement containing
just one element. “I think the value of the walnut is the composite of what it
contains,” he said. He is planning further research on the interplay
between melatonin and omega-3. Reiter’s research was supported by a grant from the California Walnut
Industry. Walnuts
are a source of melatonin, shows study Copyright - © 2000/2005– Decision News Media. – All
Rights Reserved. Homepage About Us Links Storefront Clinic Newsletters Articles and Reviews Herbal Review Microcosmic Science Ask the 
  