Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://www.mindbodyhealth.com/menopause1.htm
Last-Modified: Tue, 17 Jan 2012 00:46:58 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "8dc27784b1d4cc1:1763a"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 19:02:16 GMT
Connection: close

Menopause ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FREE Shipping on most Orders over $45.00 Check Out the NEW LOWER PRICES on our PACKAGE SPECIALS 
- Save 35% to 40% Roex Quantity Pricing - Lowest Discount Prices on 
Quantities of (2 or More) Roex Preferred Customer Specials - Save Up to 
25% Call 435-688-1621 for Preferred Customer Savings ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Home Up Miracle Products Roex Products Grandma's Herbs Products Money-Savings Package Specials ACT Energy Drinks Addiction Aid - Kick It Adrenal Support Formula - Roex Advanced Men's Formula - Roex Aloe Vera Juice Allergy Defense Allergy-Asthma Respiratory Relief Antibiotic - Nature's Biotic Apple Cider Vinegar Tabs Arthritis Aid - Arth-Aid Formula B-Complex - Roex B-12 SuperMelts - Roex Beta-Sitosterol - Roex Biblical Solution - Roex Big Blue - Roex Big Blue-II - Roex Blood Cleanser Phase-I Blood Pressure - Natural Reducer Body Balance Calcium Mineral Formula - Roex Coral Calcium Plus Herbal Calcium Cayenne - Circulation Cayenne with Ginger - Roex Cell Talk - Roex Cholesterol - Natural Reducer Choline Bitartrate - Roex CitriGenics-I - Roex Coconut Oil - Roex Natural Collagen-II - Roex Super Collagen Powder Colon Cleanse - Roex WOW Colon Essentials - Roex Herbal Colon Cleanser & Tonic Colostrum - Roex Colostrum - Chewable - Roex CoQ-10 Ubiquinol CoQ10 - Roex Coffee - The Good News Defense System Deliverease Digestive Aid - Nature's Enzymes Digestive Balance - Roex DHA Essential Fatty Acid - Roex EFA's - Roex Energy Formula Epithelial Tissue Support - Roex Fem-Aid FP-63 Flower Pollen - Roex Fiber Blend - Roex Graviola Max Graviola N-Tense Green "Rich-35" Powder Greens & Fruit Drink - Powder Green Max Powder Daily Greens - Capsules Heal Heart Plus Formula Hormone Balancer NHB-1 - Roex Hurricane - Roex Hyaluronic Acid - Roex Hydraplenish-Hyaluronic Acid Immortale for Men - Roex Immortale for Women - Roex Immune Enhancer Kidney & Bladder Support - Roex Kidney Cleanse Krill Arctic EFA Oil Laxative - Super Lax Libido Enhancer (Female) Libido Enhancer (Male) Lights Out - Roex Livalon - Roex Liver Cleanse L-Lysine & L-Proline - Roex Magnesium & Potassium - Roex Melatonin - Roex Memory Menopause MSM - Roex Nattokinase Enzyme Oleuropein - Roex Omega-3 Complex Optima-100 - Roex PC-95 (Procyanidin-95) PC VOOM - Roex Pain-Aid Pancreas Aid Parasites & Worms Probiotics Miracle 16 Probiotics - Roex Probiotics Chewable - Roex Prostate PSA Protection Prostate Formula Men's Prostate Formula - Roex Sea Fiber - Roex Skin Gel Sleep Aid Sleep - Night Nervine Slim Slim Too Slim Smart Smart Mind - Roex Stress & Tension - Nervine Stress - NaturAll Calm Stress - "B" All Calm Thyroid Formula Thyroid Support - Roex Vitalagy Drink Multi-Vitamins Vision 20/20 - Eye Formula Vision - Zeaxanthin Vision - For Your Eyes Only - Roex Vitamin A&D w/Vitamin E - Roex Vitamin-C - Roex Euro-C Powder - Roex Miracle Vitamin D-3 Essentials Vitamins For Women Vitamin K-2 Plus Complex Whey Protein - Roex WOW - Roex Allergy Pack Body Detox Package Body Structure Pack Circulatory Package Cleansing Solution Pack Cold & Flu Pack Collagen Matrix Package Daily Solution Package Digestive Solution Pack Energy - Weight - Cleanse Pack Energy Package Men Energy Package Women Immune Support Package Joint Support Package Liver Support Package Men's Libido Package Men's Support Package Prostate Support Package Sleep and Travel Package Sugar Blues Package Weight Loss Package Women's Libido Package Women's Support Pack Acupuncture Depression Anthroax Anti-Aging Drugs Aspartame Facts Why Avoid Soy Products Beyond Viagra Bioengineered Foods Boost Immune System Breast Cancer New Breast Exam Cancer Articles New Cancer Treatment Fight Prostate Cancer Carbohydrates / Disease Chlorine - Danger in our Water Fluoride - Danger in our Water GMO - Avoid Genetically Modified Foods GMO Food Health Disaster Daily Word for January Flat Stomach Flu Shots Food News Grass-Fed Beef Great Qoutes Hormone Therapy News Kegel Exercises Knee Surgery News Memory Blocking Drugs Macular Degeneration Prostate Health Prostate Herb Homeopathy Approach Privacy Policy Shipping Policies Disclaimer Statement Menopause:
More Than Just Hot Flashes Sometime
in a woman's 40s she begins the natural transition through menopause. Over the
next three to five years, her ovarian production of estrogen, progesterone, and
androgen slows dramatically. As levels of these hormones fluctuate, she may
experience the same irregular periods and mood swings she felt during puberty.
She may also notice other signs of decreased hormone production, such as hot
flashes, sleep problems, vaginal dryness, recurrent vaginal or urinary tract
infections, and some loss of bladder control. Most of these changes occur during perimenopause, or the time around ( peri in Greek) menopause. Menopause itself is just a
woman's last period; one year later, a woman is considered to be postmenopausal. The Lifestyle Connection It's up to each woman and her health-care team to put together the individual
program that's best for her during this time of transition, because the
perimenopausal experiences of women can vary due to differences in lifestyle,
attitude, genetics, weight, and ethnicity. Some women sail through menopause,
while others struggle to deal with its annoying or even debilitating symptoms.
These symptoms will eventually taper off as the body adjusts to new hormone
levels. In the meantime, lifestyle factors can help ease the menopausal
transition in several ways: Diet . Your menopausal symptoms may be reduced and certainly your
general health improved if you follow a diet that's moderate in fat (30 percent
of daily calories) and high in fruits, vegetables, legumes (including soybeans),
and whole grains. Avoid saturated and polyunsaturated fats and rely on healthier
monounsaturated fats (in olive oil and avocados) and omega-3 fatty acids (in
walnuts, flax seeds, and oily fish). Exercise . Weight-bearing exercise such as brisk walking and dancing
can keep your heart and bones strong. As a bonus, regular physical activity also
appears to reduce hot flashes, fight depression, improve thinking skills, and
promote good sleep. And it counters weight gain, another "gift" of
midlife. Stress reduction Menopausal symptoms—including mental and emotional
issues such as mood swings, lack of concentration, fatigue, loss of energy,
memory deficits, and depression—can be caused or worsened by the many stresses
that can converge on a midlife woman. This is an excellent time to get into the
habit of practicing a relaxation technique such as breath work, meditation, or
yoga. You can take a whole-body, or systemic, approach to menopausal symptoms. For
example, the conventional systemic approach is hormone supplementation. A
low-dose oral contraceptive (for women still having periods) or an
estrogen/progesterone hormone-replacement combination (for women with uteruses
who no longer have periods) can address many common menopausal symptoms,
including hot flashes and urogenital problems. I'm cautious about the long-term use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT),
but I'm not opposed to using HRT during the few years when perimenopausal
symptoms are most severe, as the risks for breast cancer appear to rise very
little with less than five years of HRT use. I also recommend that women who
experience an artificially early menopause due to surgery take HRT until they
reach the age of natural menopause (around 51). The dosage, form, and delivery
method of HRT will vary according to a woman's needs and preferences, but I
usually recommend 17-beta estradiol and oral micronized progesterone, the forms
of estrogen and progesterone that most closely resemble the body's natural
hormones. Two "alternative" medical systems—homeopathy and traditional
Chinese medicine (TCM)—also take a systemic approach to menopausal symptoms. A
good constitutional homeopath, for example, can determine through an extensive
interview which of the thousands of available homeopathic remedies will treat
all your symptoms by addressing the basic issues underlying them. You might take
this remedy once a year until symptoms go away, or just once. Similarly, a
practitioner of TCM might use acupuncture and/or multi-herb formulas to bring the
body into a better balance. The practitioner might prescribe these treatments
until symptoms are alleviated or go away. Relief for Four Common Symptoms The four most common menopausal symptoms can also be addressed separately,
with herbs, foods, supplements, or lifestyle changes. For each symptom,
experiment with the suggested measures, and see which ones work best for you. Hot Flashes (or Hot Flushes) The hallmark of menopause, these "power surges" are felt by about
three-quarters of all women. Some still-unknown signal to the
temperature-regulating portion of the brain sends blood rushing to the surface
of the skin. This flush of blood raises skin temperature as much as seven
degrees, bringing a feeling of heat (especially to the upper body), sweating,
increased heart rate, and sometimes chills. Hot flashes that occur at night may
cause intense "night sweats" that disrupt sleep. My recommendations: Dress in layers to take clothes on and off as needed. Wear clothes made of
    cotton and other breathable fibers. Identify and avoid personal hot-flash triggers, such as stress, caffeine,
    alcohol, and spicy foods. Try a standardized extract of the herb black cohosh. While we're not yet
    sure how it eases hot flashes, the evidence for black cohosh is convincing,
    according to menopause researcher Fredi Kronenberg, PhD, at Columbia
    University. A popular brand from Germany is sold here as Remifemin; follow
    package directions for dosage. Keep your cool. A hot environment can cause more frequent and intense hot
    flashes. Turn on the air conditioning, use a personal fan, and keep cold
    drinks on hand. I've even had patients tell me they stick their heads in the
    refrigerator to cool down. Breathe through them. Studies have found that women could reduce or even
    stop their hot flashes by deep, slow, belly breathing. Add phytoestrogens to your diet. The natural hormone-like compounds in
    ground flax seeds and soy foods containing isoflavones have been found in
    some studies to ease hot flashes. Other research has found no effect, but
    since these foods have cardiovascular benefits as well, one or two servings
    a day would still be healthy additions to the diet. Changes in Vaginal Tissues As estrogen levels decrease, vaginal tissues become thinner, drier, and more
fragile. This can cause itching and burning, as well as painful sex. In
addition, the vagina becomes more alkaline and less acidic, making it more
susceptible to overgrowth of bacteria or yeast. My recommendations: Drink eight glasses of water and other healthy liquids a day to help keep
    vaginal tissues moist. Avoid dehydrating antihistamines, cola drinks,
    coffee, and alcohol. Try to stay sexually active, alone or with a partner. As the saying goes,
    "Use it or lose it." Kegel
    exercises also help keep pelvic-floor muscles toned and help maintain
    sexual function. Use a vaginal moisturizer two or three times a week to plump up the
    tissues. The new "bioadhesive" gels are less messy and more
    effective—products such as Replens that maintain the pH of the vagina at
    healthier levels and discourage bacterial or yeast infections. Apply a water-soluble personal lubricant like Astroglide or Lubrin at the
    time of sexual activity. Try localized estrogen. A vaginal cream, vaginal tablet, or an
    estrogen-releasing vaginal ring (Estring) may work more quickly than
    systemic forms of HRT like the pill and the patch. If you're taking estrogen
    and have a uterus, talk to your doctor about using progesterone periodically
    to prevent a buildup of uterine tissue that can favor endometrial cancer. Urinary Tract Changes Estrogen loss also causes a thinning of the tissues at the base of the bladder
and lining the urethra, as well as a loss of tone in the muscles that control
the bladder. The result can be urine leakage and recurrent urinary tract
infections (UTIs). My recommendations: Kegel
    exercises improve urinary control by strengthening the pelvic muscles
    around the urethra. Reduce or eliminate caffeine and alcohol, which irritate the urinary
    tract. Drink lots of water to keep the system flushed. Be sure to empty the
    bladder completely when you urinate, so bacteria cannot multiply in any
    urine retained in the bladder. For recurrent UTIs, take an extract of cranberry or blueberry in capsule
    or tablet form. You can use either of these berries to treat or prevent
    infections since they contain potent compounds that prevent bacteria from
    gaining footholds in the urinary tract. Apply estrogen creams locally or have an estrogen ring inserted, which may
    improve the quality of urethral tissue and reduce the risk of urinary tract
    infections. Insomnia Many women lose sleep due to nighttime hot flashes or the need to urinate, both
of which can interfere with restorative REM sleep. Getting a handle on hot
flashes, then, should ease insomnia too. But midlife insomnia can also be caused
by stresses or physical changes due to aging in men and women. My recommendations: Practice good sleep hygiene: Set a regular bedtime, use your bed only for
    sleep and sex, keep the bedroom cool, use a white-noise machine or a sleep
    mask if the environment makes sleep difficult, take a hot bath an hour
    before bedtime, use a bedside notepad to write down any thoughts that are
    keeping you awake, have a serotonin-boosting nighttime snack such as turkey
    or nonfat cottage cheese, and get up and do something if you can't fall
    asleep within 20 to 30 minutes. Avoid coffee, cola drinks, and other stimulants all day, not just at
    night. Have a relaxing cup of chamomile tea at bedtime. It's okay to use an
    extract of valerian or a valerian-and-hops combination as an occasional
    sleep aid, but try not to use valerian on a regular basis, or you may become
    psychologically dependent on it. Get regular daily exercise, which improves sleep quality. But exercising
    near bedtime can have the opposite effect. Ask a family member for an evening back massage, or massage your own feet
    before bed. Try massaging with a nut or vegetable oil (like almond or olive
    oil) mixed with a few drops of sleep-promoting lavender or vanilla essential
    oils. Change your attitude about being awake at night. Savor this time alone for
    journaling or personal reflection. Resources: For books, see The Wisdom of Menopause by Christiane
Northrup, MD (Bantam, 2001), and Menopause, Naturally by Sadja Greenwood,
MD (Volcano Press, 1996). For websites, see Power Surge at www.power-surge.com ,
and the North American Menopause Society at www.menopause.
org . The latter group also sells an informational packet for $5 shipping and
handling. To order, call (800) 774-5342. Home Contents Grandma's Herbs Products Miracle Products Roex Products Shipping Policies * These statements have not been
evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to
diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. This information is nutritional in nature
and should not be construed as medical advice. This notice is required by the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Copyright © 2010 Mindb