Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2012 14:54:59 GMT
Connection: close

All Ayurveda :: Health for Her :: Diabetes in pregnancy Contact Us | Feedback | Sitemap Search by Ailments Login | New User? Register Select Product Type Ayurvedic Books Herbal Extracts Herbal Powder Herbal Products Interactive CD / DVD Mortar & Pestle Shirodhara Items Therapeutic Magnets Health for Her Diabetes in pregnancy Diabetes is the disease of active age the number of
                        diabetes are increasing rapidly and in India about one
                        and half cores are estimated to be suffering from the
                        disease and about the same number have adult diabetes.
                        Young women in their reproductive life may also suffer
                        from diabetes or pregnancy stress may increase their
                        blood glucose level, which is called as Gestational
                        diabetes mellitus. Insulin hormone is secreted by
                        pancreas. Deficiency of insulin or lack of response of
                        tissues to insulin causes diabetes in which blood
                        glucose level increases, glucose may appear in urine,
                        along with increase in thirst, appetite and weight and
                        weight loss. Because of diabetes many organs like heart,
                        brain, nerves, eyes, kidney etc are damaged in long run.
                        Before use of insulin for treatment in the long run,
                        successful, uneventful pregnancy was rare event in
                        diabetic women. They use to conceive with difficulty.
                        Those who did conceive, the outcome was often used to be
                        disastrous Mother's Risk Pregnant diabetic ladies have
                            greater chances of Ketosis as compared to
                            non-diabetic women. These women should never do
                            fasting as eighteen hours fasting by pregnant women
                            is equivalent to seventy two hours fasting of
                            non-pregnant woman. In pregnancy the risk of
                            involvement of eyes due to diabetes increase many
                            fold and damage to eye is rapid. If women are diabetic ,the
                            chances of pre-eclampsia in which they suffer from
                            high blood pressure, swelling in body and appearance
                            of protein is increased which leads to serious
                            condition if not treated promptly. Chances of abortion, pre term
                            delivery in diabetic pregnant women increases many
                            times. Diabetes decreases the body
                            resistance and they have increased risk of
                            infections during pregnancy or/and during delivery
                            or after delivery which may be life threatening. Risk for the Foetus: Diabetic women usually have
                            larger babies (500gm heavier and 2-3 cm larger)
                            which can create grave problems during pregnancy and
                            delivery. If women are suffering from
                            diabetes from long time before getting pregnant, it
                            leads to arteriosclerosis, decreased blood flow and
                            the baby may be very small. Foetus can die in mother’s
                            womb. The babies of a diabetic mother
                            may develop birth defects, brain disorders and low
                            intelligence. with strict control of diabetes about
                            97 percent of Foetus can survive. Baby born to diabetic women have
                            increased chances of lung diseases, which is often
                            fatal. Baby of diabetic may have
                            increased chances to have very high hemoglobin in
                            blood, jaundice or calcium level in blood. Baby of diabetic mother may
                            develop muscle weakness. Babies may be born before full
                            maturation and development and these premature
                            babies may die soon. After birth due to infections
                            or other causes. Baby of a diabetic mother may
                            have increased chances to have hypoglycemia (low
                            blood glucose level), which leads to convulsion. Gestational Diabetes: When abnormal glucose level is first time detected
                        during pregnancy and it returns to normal following
                        termination of pregnancy or 2-3 weeks after delivery.
                        risk of gestation diabetes in those who are over 30
                        year, obese, have a close blood relative who is diabetic
                        ,in previous pregnancies baby may have been born dead or
                        given birth to larger babies. Every pregnant woman
                        should have blood glucose measurement in 1st three month
                        and then in 24th, 28th week of pregnancy. If women are
                        suffering from gestational diabetes their blood glucose
                        should be measured every 8 to 10 days and they should be
                        given 6 to 10 units of Insulin injection before
                        breakfast every day so that problems to them and their
                        baby can be minimized. Pre- gestational Diabetes: If women have diabetes and get
                            pregnant ,the risk of eye, kidney damage, eclampsia
                            increases and problems to Foetus can occur. Blood
                            glucose level of these women should be tightly
                            controlled by insulin injections to have successful
                            outcome of pregnancy Oral hypoglycemic pills should
                            not be used to control diabetes in pregnant women.
                            In these women, daily measurement of blood glucose
                            should be done and dosage of Insulin must be
                            adjusted so that fasting glucose level one hour
                            after meals should not exceed beyond 129mg/dl and
                            glycosylated hemoglobin A-C should be maintained
                            less than 8%. Diabetic women of childbearing
                            age have to be careful in planning the family. Child
                            bearing must be complete before 30 years of age. Diabetic women should avoid oral
                            pills or loops, cupper-T as birth control measures. Before getting pregnant they
                            should normalize the blood glucose level by Insulin
                            injections, which will decrease the birth risks and
                            death in the babies. In first trimester of pregnancy,
                            Careful control of blood glucose by Insulin is
                            necessary to prevent problems both in mother and
                            baby. In second trimester, alphas
                            foetopsorein should be measured at 16 to 20 weeks to
                            detect neural tube defects and other abnormalities.
                            If found that Foetus is suffering from these nay
                            defect, abortion can be advised. In third trimester at least
                            weekly blood glucose should be measured to detect
                            pre- eclampsia and other problems in women and baby
                            at the earliest so that appropriate measures can be
                            taken. If diabetic women have excellent
                            blood glucose control, the pregnancy can be
                            continued up to full term and normal delivery is
                            possible but in more than half diabetic women
                            cessarian section is required. In diabetic women delivery must
                            be in hospital only. In diabetic women after one baby,
                            sterilization is advised. Pregnancy poses grave threat to
                            life of both mother and baby in diabetic women.
                            Before use of insulin to control diabetes,
                            successful pregnancy was a rare. Only very tight
                            control of blood glucose by injections of insulin
                            can avoid these problems to some extent. Now with
                            tight control of glucose, most problems in women can
                            solve but baby may still be in danger. Diabetic
                            women should be advised about the risk to them and
                            the baby before they plan pregnancy and should be
                            ready to take all the precautions and risk. Ayurvedic Supplements  for
                        Diabetes in pregnancy: Diabet Guard Buy Now Neem Guard Buy Now Eat Neemguard regularly as it is anti Diabetes and as it is completely herbal, it is safe for regular
                        usage.  A regular dosage of Neemguard will prove
                        very beneficial. Main page - Health
                for Her More
                          enquires on your health.....Consult Our Ayurvedic
                          Doctors Copyright © : 2001-2009    ROC No. L-20178/2002  allayurveda.com.    All rights reserved Disclaimer & Authorization , Acknowledgements These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. 
This product is n