Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 21 Jun 2011 09:26:23 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "2b7a9549f52fcc1:61a"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 15:44:11 GMT
Connection: close

Chapter 1, Nationwide Service, National Service, England, Scotland, Wales, Home Counties, Midlands Contents Chapter 1: Introduction Chapter 2: Stop Smoking Quiz Chapter 3: Facts and Figures Chapter 4: The Benefits of Smoking Chapter 5: How to Stop Smoking in Three Easy Lessons Lesson One……..…The ‘Endorphin’ Solution Lesson Two…..……The ‘Relaxation’ Solution Lesson Three………The ‘Changed Lifestyle’ Solution Chapter 6: Understanding Addiction and Habit Chapter 7: The Penalties of Smoking Chapter 8: The Advantages of Being a Non-Smoker Chapter 9: Taking Responsibility Chapter 10: Think Yourself Smoke Free Chapter 11: Psychology of Success Chapter 12: Hypnotherapy Chapter 13: Summary Audio Production: Ron Angus (www.audioloft.co.uk) Cover and Artwork: Kev Stevens (www.theartroom.biz) © Copyright David Wilkinson 1st November 2009 Note This material in whatever format is designed as a workable 
                            hypnotic method that I have developed to help users stop 
                            smoking. Hypothetical situations and assertions are made within 
                            this work to examine unproven theories in pursuit of this goal. Chapter 1: An Introduction I chose the name for this programme ‘Stop Smoking Filthy  Habit’ 
                            because it’s frequently used by smokers, non-smokers and  ex-smokers. 
                            Even though ‘Stop Smoking Filthy Habit’ is a common 
                            phrase I suspect that urging a smoker to stop with the  use of 
                            such language would be futile. The right time for a smoker to quit can only be described  as 
                            random in the extreme and I’ve known an individual stop 
                            suddenly after over 50 years of smoking while others even  facing 
                            the possibility of limb amputation or a premature death  have 
                            continued. The truth is that you have to want to stop and  once
                            that is the case, it’s just a matter of how and when. The how is easy, just refrain from putting a cigarette to  your lips 
                            to draw and inhale the fumes. Stop Smoking Filthy Habit  tries to 
                            encourage smokers to focus upon the desire to stop using  assertions 
                            analysis and hypnotherapy, while a typical smoker might  focus 
                            upon how difficult the change would be. I will go into my assertions in more depth later in this  work but 
                            for now it is sufficient to say that most smokers say  that the habit 
                            makes them relax and reduces stress. While not trying to
                            promote smoking I have to agree. The only problem is what  else
                            does it do? If you want to study medical literature or speak to  anyone in the
                            medical profession, the vast majority will say that it  damages
                            your body and often kills prematurely. Even the cigarette
                            manufacturers print grim warnings on the packets  (through
                            government directive) telling users that smoking kills. When the fear and cost of continuing to smoke or the  desire for 
                            constructive change has a significant effect upon an  individual, 
                            then the time has come to quit. If the time has come for  you, I 
                            offer this programme including my hypothesis and  hypnotherapy 
                            sessions to help make it easier. If our start point is that smoking makes you relax and  reduces
                            stress, all we have to do is find alternative activities  to create the
                            same effect. The activities I advocate are set out in  Chapter 5
                            Lesson One and include suggestions about how you might
                            increase the release of endorphins (your body’s feel good
                            chemicals) into your body. If you are unwilling or unable to promote the release of
                            endorphins, then you could try having a less stressful  life so that
                            you don’t need to use cigarettes to help you relax. While  this
                            may seem more difficult than it sounds, this programme  offers a
                            selection of stop smoking hypnotherapy sessions to listen  to and
                            recommends alternative relaxation techniques explained in
                            Chapter 5 Lesson Two. The methods I advocate to help you stop smoking include  positive 
                            changes you can make, which many people say accentuates  their 
                            quality of life. Be that as it may, many smokers may rely  upon 
                            the fear of illness, early death or the need to use their  money on 
                            something more important than cigarettes as a motivating factors. Many people have been touched by loss of life caused  through
                            smoking related disease and I’m amongst that number. All  three
                            of my aunts on my father’s side died prematurely, one in  early adulthood
                            and the other two in mid-adulthood allegedly due to
                            smoking related disease. D espite this fact, as an adult I went on to smoke and  also worked
                            in a cigarette manufacturing factory for a number of  years.
                            Having this background I would like to make it clear that  I do not
                            intend to blame the tobacco industry for me having been a
                            smoker. In fact the company I worked for looked after  their
                            employees  well and it was my choice to work there after all . I don’t feel that it’s my place to apportion blame even  though
                            many may blame the manufacturers who make money from
                            making cigarettes or the government who make even more
                            money from the sale of cigarettes. Ultimately, the  smokers who
                            chose to take up the habit are responsible for their  actions and
                            only their actions can help them stop. I am not going to try to change the world I’m not even  going to
                            try to change you. I’m just going to present my hypothesis  and
                            facilitate effective communication between your conscious  and
                            subconscious minds through hypnotherapy, in the hope that  you
                            will change yourself. In doing so I will use the same  method I’ve
                            used for many clients in the past, providing information,  ideas
                            and hypnotherapy designed to help you change . This stop smoking package is designed to do four things; 1 : Remove emotional ties that you may have linked to smoking 2: Provide facts, figures and assertions about the  activity and the 
                            possible consequences 3: Provide practical workable solutions and a selection  of
                            hypnotherapy CDs to help you stop 4: Draw your attention to the significant benefits you  are likely
                            to attain when you stop Hypnotherapy can help remove or reduce the emotional ties
                            people often link to smoking. Smokers frequently claim  that they
                            gain many benefits from smoking cigarettes such as  calmness and
                            relaxation whilst having many fears of the consequence s . This effect is known as incongruence, defined as made up  of
                            parts or qualities that are disparate or otherwise  markedly lacking
                            in consistency. The feeling of “I must stop smoking” and “I  can’t
                            stop smoking” is the reason you are examining this  material
                            today. T his incongruence is dealt with in Chapter 12 ‘Hypnotherapy’
                            where the process is explained. The smoker can then  decide after
                            examining this material to smoke anyway and accept the  risks
                            and consequences, or stop. Either way, the issues are  examined;
                            the penalties and benefits are weighed up and a decision  can be
                            made by the individual concerned. The good news is that you are taking constructive action  now to
                            resolve this incongruence or mixed emotions. The very act  of
                            studying this material has tipped the balance slightly in  your favour
                            because it demonstrates your ASPIRATION to be a  non-smoker. The aspiration or desire to change is part of the  psychological 
                            process involved in achieving your goal to be a  non-smoker. A 
                            later section of this programme ‘The Psychology of  Success’ deals 
                            with this and other pre-requisites involved in resolving  the issue 
                            on a psychological level. It can be helpful to plan some activities to improve  levels of 
                            fitness and many ex-smokers adopt a healthier lifestyle  generally 
                            which can soon become a pleasure. Improving fitness can  range 
                            from simply walking more to taking up an activity, hobby  or sport 
                            etc. Whatever activity you do will probably be easier as  a nonsmoker 
                            but build up your exercises safely and seek medical  advice
                            before starting an exercise programme. The facts and figures I provide are from a survey  compiled from a
                            number of ex-clients who had treatment to stop smoking  and
                            gave the information anonymously. The survey reveals many
                            statistics such as their age when they started and how  many they
                            smoke per day but the most important information revealed  was
                            the perceived benefits they gained from smoking. Having ascertained that the main benefit the survey group  gained 
                            from smoking was calmness and relaxation, it occurred to  me
                            that the creation of such feelings naturally could  eliminate the
                            need for cigarettes. These statistics helped me to  develop my
                            hypothesis focusing upon methods designed to reduce or 
                            eliminate the craving for cigarettes through the natural  release of
                            endorphins and reducing underlying stress. The penalties of smoking are generally agreed to be  numerous
                            and most people know what they are already otherwise they
                            would be unlikely to stop. Therefore this section will be  brief,
                            setting out the main potential penalties that smokers risk . This is
                            set out in Chapter 7 ‘The Penalties of Smoking’ and  covers health
                            issues, the financial costs and some social consequences  of smoking.
                            The benefits of being a non-smoker are significant and  although
                            you may be already aware of the benefits, more attention  is
                            devoted to this section as a motivating factor. These
                            considerations are set out in Chapter 8 ‘The Advantages  of Being
                            a Non-Smoker’ whilst the remainder of this work is  devoted to
                            helping you achieve this transformation. T his stop smoking programme is presented in an audio form  so
                            that individuals can gain the benefits of hypnotherapy  from the
                            sessions provided. An added bonus is that these sessions  can be
                            played again and again to reinforce your new chosen  behaviou r. Also, the audio and paper presentations of this booklet ‘Stop Smoking Filthy Habit’ may help you perceive smoking in a  different
                            light and help you make the decision to stop smoking  permanently. Chapter 2: Stop Smoking Quiz This quiz may help you decide upon the magnitude of your smoking problem and what action would benefit you. Please answer each question with your initial response as this is usually correct. YES........................................score 2 MAYBE……................................score 1 NO.........................................score 0 1. When you started smoking were you under 16? 2. Is pre 16 an impressionable age? 3. Did peer pressure play its part in you starting to smoke? 4. Would you like be a good role model to those who respect you? 5. Do you think continuing to smoke will reduce your quality of your life? 6. Do you think smoking will reduce the length of your life? 7. Do you think your health will improve if you stop smoking now? 8. Are you ready to stop risking a smoking related early death? 9. Are you ready to stop risking smoking related of limb amputation? 10. Do you spend around £40 per week on cigarettes? 11. Would having £2,000 per year extra benefit your life significantly? 12. Do you spend more than £50 per week on cigarettes? 13. Did you know that £50 p/w saved over 10 years is £33,000?* 14. Is smoking cigarettes a habit? 15. Is smoking cigarettes an addiction? 16. Are you a a drug addict because of your cigarette addiction? 17. Do you smoke more than 20 cigarettes per day? 18. Do you smoke more than 30 cigarettes per day? 19. Do you smoke more than 40 cigarettes per day? 20. Are you ready to stop smoking with the aid of this programme? Score between, 20-40 You are fully aware of the risks of smoking cigarettes and indulging in the habit has probably diminished the quality of your life. You should be ready to stop smoking to benefit your physical, social and financial wellbeing. Score between, 10-19 You may be a moderate smoker but the same ill effects could befall you as a heavier smoker if you continue with the habit. Consider our stop smoking programme to help you stop now and reduce the risk. Score between, 0-9 You may be a light smoker but you are rapidly coming to the conclusion that smoking even moderately can cause problems. Although you may resist the idea of stopping smoking now, you understand the potential benefits of stopping. *Question 13 (at 5% compound interest). Chapter 3: Facts and Figures I have been involved with helping people to stop smoking for a number of years and have compiled a survey from a number of ex-clients who gave the following information anonymously. There is a range of reasons why people smoke and this survey probes deeply into the many aspects of smoking and the reasons why individuals have decided to stop. The age of starting to smoke The average smoker starts to smoke as a teenager and the cause is usually misguided non-malicious peer pressure. I use the phrase non-malicious because peer pressure can simply be an individual seeing a smoker as a role model, rather than being coerced into smoking through the “smoke or you will be excluded” image that we sometimes hear about. My research shows that if an individual reaches their early twenties without starting to smoke there is a less than 1 in 20 chance that they ever will. Parents, be aware that if you can influence your children during their teens to early twenties not to smoke, it may be the greatest gift you could bestow upon them. Quantity of cigarettes smoked My statistics indicate that the average smoker consumes around 20 per day, with a range of consumption of between about 10 and 40 per day. Heavy smokers are just as likely to stop with the help of this programme as light smokers. First cigarette smoked The entire survey group said they smoked either before or straight after breakfast normally with a cup of tea or coffee. Trigger situations When asked what situation usually triggered their smoking, my survey revealed that around 40% said all situations, 30% said while drinking alcohol and 20% said social situations. The remainder said when alone, when worrying and when using the computer amongst other reasons. The most enjoyed cigarette A surprising 38% indicated that they enjoyed a cigarette most with an alcoholic beverage, 31% said following a meal, 19% said first thing in the morning while around 12% said when relaxing. It is a worrying statistic that a large percentage said they enjoyed a cigarette most when combined with eating and drinking. If the chemicals in tobacco smoke can contribute to mouth and throat cancer, it may be that food and drink contaminated by the smoke could be swallowed and cause digestive tract problems in the future. Attempts to stop smoking Almost all had stopped smoking in the past for periods ranging from a day or two to 5 years. Most said they had started again when stressed, on holiday or when succumbing to temptation in combination with alcohol consumption. Reasons for stopping The main reasons for stopping smoking were health issues at 32%, social issues 29%, money 20%, resentment of self-confessed addiction 9%, survival 6% and fitness 4%. The benefits to others of stopping smoking A massive 95% said they were stopping for the benefit of their family, a heart-warming statistic to think that they were prepared to give up a pleasure (albeit a perverse pleasure) primarily for the benefit of those they love. All 95% stated that their partners, children, parents or other loved ones would worry less about them if they stopped smoking. Additional benefits stated were that family members would cease to be affected by passive smoking and their children and grandchildren would benefit from the new role model they were about to become. Why smokers smoke When asked why they still smoked up to that point, 30% said they were addicted, 12% said it was a habit, 6% said it was peer pressure from other smokers and the rest said lack of will power, they enjoyed it, they didn’t know. Addiction or habit When asked if they thought smoking was an addiction or a habit, around 45% said addiction, 33% said habit and the rest said that it was both. Upon studying the answers to these questions, it seemed that some smokers were in denial about the addictive and habitual qualities of the activity . Only 30% admitted that they were addicted while 45% said they considered smoking was an addictive act. Also, only 12% said they were habitual smokers, while 33% said they thought it was a habitual activity. Health fears associated with smoking When questioned about their greatest health concerns, cancer topped the poll with 44% claiming it was their greatest fear. Lung cancer accounted for 24% of the overall concern with 10% each for mouth and throat cancer. Heart disease was the second biggest worry for 17%, while breathing difficulties from Bronchitis and Emphysema concerned 14%. The breathing difficulty group were most concerned about the idea of being subject to or dying from suffocation. I’m not sure if premature aging is a health concern or an aesthetic concern but 12% stated it as their biggest fear. The whole of this group were ladies, many of whom said that they worried about aging skin, grey pallor and wrinkles around the lip area. Stroke accounted for 9% and I’m sure it can devastate lives as thoroughly as, or even more so than many of the other conditions. I’m as guilty as anyone who might have said “why me?” had I been struck down with smoking related illness. Now, as an ex-smoker I say “why anyone?” Other health concerns participants expressed in relation to smoking were “peripheral arterial disease” which can result in limb amputation. Whilst not expressing any opinion about these links, mental health issues such as depression and anxiety were expressed as concerns. These issues represented around 2% each of the health fears. Perceived benefits of smoking A massive 57% of the survey group said smoking simply made them relaxed and calm. The hypnotherapy CDs are designed to help you relax and change your thought processes about smoking. However, other chill-out activities such as Meditation, Yoga, Tai Chi, Pilates or even walking may help you relax and can be used alongside or in place of the hypnotherapy sessions. Stopping smoking should be an easier task for the 37% who said they got nothing from smoking. This significant minority were simply habitual smokers, but the good news is that habits can be broken or transferred from destructive to constructive habits. Fears of stopping smoking The percentage that had no fears and the percentage that feared their attempt to stop would not work were roughly equal at 35% each. Those worried about weight gain represented 12.5% as did those who feared they may always have the desire to smoke even if they resisted the act. The biggest fear for 5% was that they would not be able to find alternative activities to replace their previous behaviour of smoking cigarettes at regular intervals throughout the day, which leads us nicely on to the next section. Lifestyle changes to help you to refrain from smoking When asked what lifestyle changes would help them refrain from smoking, 65% said that more physical activity such as playing with their kids, walking, running, swimming and the gym would help. Many said they would have more time for such activities as they would not be sitting around smoking cigarettes. A significant 30% said less drinking at home or when out for the evening would help. This group thought that alcohol intoxication and the reduction in the ability to make important decisions went hand-in-hand. Many in this group said that the avoidance of situations where alcohol was freely available would help at least for a few weeks until their new behaviour became a habit. .......... Read the full 'Stop Smoking Filthy Habit' booklet with sub-sections on; The ‘Endorphin’ Solution The �