
Cymbalta (duloxetine HCl): Official Site Sign In Prescribing Information Safety Information and Boxed Warning Medication Guide Información en Español Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Depression Understanding Depression The Impact of Depression Talking With Others About Depression Cymbalta and Depression Information for Friends and Family Generalized Anxiety Disorder Understanding Generalized Anxiety Disorder The Impact of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Talking to Your Doctor About Generalized Anxiety Disorder Cymbalta and Generalized Anxiety Disorder Information for Friends and Family Diabetic Nerve Pain Understanding Diabetic Nerve Pain The Impact of Diabetic Nerve Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Diabetic Nerve Pain Cymbalta and Diabetic Nerve Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Managing Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Understanding Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Low Back Pain Managing Chronic Low Back Pain Understanding Chronic Low Back Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Low Back Pain Information for Friends and Family Fibromyalgia Understanding Fibromyalgia How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Talking to Your Doctor About Fibromyalgia Cymbalta and Fibromyalgia Information for Friends and Family Learn About Cymbalta Información en Español How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work What to Expect Resource Center Important Safety Information Side Effects Commonly Asked Questions About Cymbalta Contact Us About Lilly Understanding Depression Depression Symptoms Treatment Options Depression FAQ The Impact of Depression Talking With Others About Depression Depression Impact Tool Talking to Friends and Family Partnering With Your Doctor Cymbalta and Depression Information for Friends and Family Common Questions About Treatment Talking About Depression First Steps First Steps Homepage Information for Friends and Family Understanding Depression Treatment Options First Steps First Steps Homepage Understanding Depression Depression Symptoms First Steps First Steps Homepage Understanding Depression The Impact of Depression Partnering With Your Healthcare Provider Depression Impact Tool First Steps First Steps Homepage Treatment Options Learn About Cymbalta Cymbalta and Depression Depression Impact Tool First Steps First Steps Homepage Learn About Cymbalta See How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work Cymbalta and Depression Resources for Support Depression Impact Tool First Steps First Steps Homepage Learn About Cymbalta See How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work Cymbalta and Depression Resources for Support Learn how Cymbalta can help treat or manage your condition. More I have been prescribed Cymbalta for: Depression Generalized Anxiety Disorder Diabetic Nerve Pain Fibromyalgia Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to Chronic Low Back Pain Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Home > Depression > Talking With Others About Depression > Talking to Friends and Family Talking to Friends and Family Identifying support systems may be beneficial to helping you manage your depression. Friends and family can help you do things, like helping you visit the doctor, when you are not feeling well. Just knowing that someone is there for support can help. Start With How You're Feeling Be honest and straightforward about what you've been experiencing. It might be useful to describe your symptoms. Just talking about your depression may be a relief. Explain Depression Share what you know about depression—that it is a real disease with many causes, and that treatment can work. When friends and family understand your illness better, they'll be able to support you better. Learning How to Talk About Depression Conversation Starters By sharing how you're feeling with the people close to you, you are opening up the lines of communication and supporting your path toward improvement. Talking about depression may be difficult, so we've provided you with some ways that may help you start a conversation with a friend or family member: "I've seen a doctor about the way I've been feeling lately, and I want to tell you about it..." "I've been diagnosed with depression, so I need to make my health a priority right now..." "My doctor says I have depression. I'm getting treatment to help me feel better, but I could use your support, too..." Suggest Spending Time Together Think of a few activities, like a morning walk or doing the crossword, which you can share with a friend or family member. Let your loved ones know that their company can help you feel better. Ask for What You Need You may just want to know that friends and family are there for you. Or, you might need help with practical things like driving you to the doctor or helping with chores. Don't be afraid to ask. Remember That Support Is a Two-way Street Your loved ones have their fair share of challenges, too—it's part of life. Just let them know that you're trying and that you care. It can go a long way to keeping relationships strong and healthy. To learn more, consult the Resources and Links section of this site. Indications Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in four short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in three short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic osteoarthritis pain and chronic low back pain. Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Prescribing Information | Safety Information and Boxed Warning | Medication Guide | Multimedia Help | Glossary | Site Map | Patient Assistance Program Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Copyright DD61726-012012A ©Lilly USA, LLC 
 2012. All rights reserved. This site is intended for U.S. residents age 18 and over. Cymbalta is a registered trademark of Lilly USA, LLC. No Yes This Site: 