
An Ounce of Prevention: Getting Enough Sleep?  - March 22, 2011 Search Site Map Contact QVHD HOME ABOUT
QVHD COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL MOM'S
CLINIC RESOURCES Our weekly news column bringing the most current, non-biased health
            information to the consumer. March 22, 2011 A Publication of QVHD Getting Enough Sleep? By: V. Deborah Culligan, RN, MPH, Deputy Director QVHD D oes the amount of sleep 
	  you get in a given night affect how you think, react, and perform the next 
	  day? Most people would definitely connect lack of sleep with a decreased 
	  ability to perform tasks, concentrate and remember. Most people would also 
	  agree that they are “not as pleasant” as when they are rested. Studying sleep in the general population is difficult. The CDC (Centers 
	  for Disease Control) recently analyzed data from the National Health and 
	  Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and found that one-third of US 
	  residents do not get enough sleep on a regular basis. Everyone has 
	  an occasional bad night's sleep. But research is finding that chronic 
	  sleep deprivation has a cumulative effect on mental and physical 
	  well-being and can make chronic diseases worse. For example, a lack of 
	  sleep may result in an inability to keep blood sugar levels steady and 
	  produce a need for more insulin production. Restless sleep has also been 
	  linked to high blood pressure and heart problems. Solving sleep 
	  problems is not always easy, as there are many different causes for an 
	  inability to sleep. Three of the most common disorders are insomnia, sleep 
	  apnea and restless leg syndrome (RLS.) Since the causes of sleep problems 
	  can differ, the solutions may be specific to the type of problem. For example, establishing a bedtime routine can often help those with 
	  insomnia. Sleep apnea needs to be evaluated as there are different types 
	  of this problem. Treatment can range from the use of prosthetics to 
	  surgery. Restless leg syndrome may be treated with medication. The 
	  CDC recommends some strategies for better sleep. They include: Go to bed at the same time each night and get up at the same time 
		  each morning. Sleep in a quiet, dark room that is not too hot and not too cold. Avoid physical activity within a few hours of sleep. Avoid large meals, caffeine, alcohol and tobacco within a few 
		  hours of sleep. Some research suggests making sure your bed is attractive: made up 
		  with clean sheets and perhaps an attractive fragrance. There are many prescription medications on the market that may aid 
	  sleep. However, you need to remember that these medications are drugs and 
	  may have side effects. Use caution when using them. Follow your doctor's 
	  orders as well as the directions on the label. The available 
	  research on herbal sleep products have shown that these products do not do 
	  much for sleep disorders. Such products include valerian, Alluna, Natrol 
	  Stress Complex, kava chews, and melatonin. You may want to try valerian as 
	  it does not seem to be harmful, although most of the studies (not very 
	  well designed) do not point to sleep benefits. Further, remember that 
	  herbal supplements are not regulated. This can mean that you may get more 
	  or less of the active ingredient and long-term use and safety have not 
	  been studied. Melatonin may be useful in helping those prevent or overcome 
	  jet lag or those whose daily rhythm is out of sync. However, taking it at 
	  a wrong time could further disrupt your body's rhythm and may actually 
	  make a sleep problem worse. For a free packet on sleep disorders, 
	  District residents (Bethany, Hamden , North Haven and Woodbridge ) can 
	  call QVHD, 248-4528 or request on line, www.qvhd.org . An Ounce of Prevention is a
              publication of the Quinnipiack Valley Health District, located at
              1151 Hartford Turnpike, North Haven, CT 06473. Telephone:
              248-4528. An Ounce of Prevention is
              written by V. Deborah Culligan. The articles are published in the following local newspapers, The Advisor &
              Beth-Wood News. The content is provided as health education and
            information to help you make health decisions. It is not intended to
            be legal or medical advice, or substitute for recommendations made
            by your health care provider. Address all comments to the district
            office. Quinnipiack Valley Health District 1151 Hartford Turnpike North Haven, CT 06473 Phone. (203) 248-4528 Fax. (203) 248-6671 E-Mail. info@qvhd.org © 2011, Quinnipiack Valley Health District.
      All rights reserved
      Web site desi