
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 10:42:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Traditional Chinese Medicines and Herbals HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Alternative and Natural Medicine » Chinese Medicine » Traditional Chinese Medicines and Herbals 71 rate or flag By Kevin Peter Traditional Chinese Medicine or TCM Traditional Chinese Medicine or TCM is a medical system started in China about 2000 years before. It has the basis principles of human life and health from Buddhism and Taoism. Therefore, according to TCM, life and human activity is directly related to the environment. TCM includes traditional Chinese herbs, Acupuncture, and massages . Traditional Chinese Herbs : There are about 500 types of Chinese herbs being used today. The herbs are classified into 2: according to their taste (sour, sweet, bitter, salty, and spicy) and temperature (hot, cold, neutral). The combinations of these two can influence the yin and yang energy flow in the human body. These are used in the treatment of dry and protracted coughs, diarrhea, respiratory and digestive disorders. These traditional herbs contain plant parts such as dried mushrooms and also animal parts such as dried sea-horse, tiger bones and parts. Chinese Herbs Chinese Medicine on Amazon Acupressure Mat | Acupuncture Mat for Back Pain Relief | #1 Back Pain Treatment | (nail bed or spike mat) (Green) Amazon Price: $36.95 List Price: $69.99 Professional 2500Hz Dual Channel Massager Acupuncture Therapist, Pain Relief and Relaxation for All Around Your Body Amazon Price: $169.99 Pointer Excell II Digital Acupunture & Pressure Point Locator Amazon Price: $148.50 List Price: $229.99 Acupuncture: ‘Acus’ means needles in Latin and puncture means ‘prick’. This treatment involves pricking of ‘acupoints’ with needles. The location of the acupoints varies depending on the illness. Nausea patient will be receiving acupuncture treatment on the acupoints on his wrist, while those having vision problems on the acupoints on his foot. The injected needles are made to remain for 15-30 minutes. This treatment is intended to increase the blood circulation and energy balance. These are used in the treatment of headaches, severe lower backaches etc. As the treatment results are slow, one should take at least 10 such treatments spread out weekly or monthly. Acupuncture should be done by experts using sterilized needles; otherwise it would lead to nerve injury, kidney damage, and even stroke. Acupuncture treatment is for.. acupuncture for acne acupuncture for allergies acupuncture for anxiety acupuncture for depression acupuncture for dogs acupuncture for fibromyalgia acupuncture for insomnia acupuncture for menopause acupuncture for weight loss Acupressure: It is a blend of Acupuncture and pressure by applying pressure on the acupuncture points with hand, elbow or other devices. Shiatsu: ‘Shi’ means palm and ‘atsu’ means pressure in Japanese. It refers to the use of one’s palm and fingers to apply pressure on the body surface. Shaitsu practitioners believe in treating an illness by improving one’s immunity and natural healing power through massages. Qigong: It is an exercise to control and regulate the mind. It differs from the regular physical exercises because Qigong exercises are done sitting in one place, standing upside down or lying sideways or on the back. They regulate breathing. Controversies There have been controversies regarding the use of endangered animal parts in this type of treatment; especially the use of tiger body parts and sea-horses have resulted in their killing in numbers, making them to the brink of extinction. Certain Chinese herbal medicines result in allergies and even poisoning and also are adulterated. What ever be the controversies, the traditional Chinese medicines are in huge demand all over China and are preferred over Western medicines. How does traditional Chinese medicine work? Tips On How To Clean Your Bathroom Without Bruising It The one area of your entire house that has the most germs breeding, is most prone to quick dirtying and requires immediate cleanliness attention. - 4 days ago How to Celebrate Mother's Day in a Special Way? Mother's Day is celebrated is a very special day to honor all mothers and express gratitude for the hardships they bear in bringing up a child. - 8 days ago vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Health: Difference Between Cosmetic Surgery And Plastic Surgery Health: McDonalds Fries -Favorite Fast Food of the World Comments Loading... No comments yet. Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites Weekly Topic : Natural & Alternative Health Indian Herb for Treatment of Inflammatory Conditions (from McDaniel Life-Line) Indian Herb is a moist paste that can be taken orally for almost any ailment, or for prevention and health maintenance. - 2 years ago Home Remedies- A Top Ten Home Remedies Selection Favorite Home Remedies from an experienced massage therapist with extensive experience in natural healing. - 2 years ago 95 Kevin Peter From Global Citizen 320 Followers 199 Hubs Joined 2 years ago Read more Hubs by Kevin Peter Contact Kevin Peter Related Hubs Natural Herbal Remedy - Herbal Relief for Irritated Skin by SandyMcCollum Herbal Remedies and Supplements, Part Five by cherylone Treating Fibromyalgia Symptoms Naturally Part One by cloverleaffarm To Or Not To Go Herbal Is The Question by crazyhorsesghost Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) for Seasonal Allergy... by Money Glitch Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Treatments for Insomnia by Amber Allen Answers The Question HubMob Weekly Topic : Natural and Alternative Health asked by Princessa 2 years ago 102 answers Answer this question Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners.