Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 01 Jun 2010 22:27:49 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "265faaad91cb1:20364"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 17:41:41 GMT
Connection: close

VALERIAN Valeriana Officinalis Valerian Valeriana Officinalis Valerian 
						has a long history of use for many centuries as a 
						sedative, a nervine, anti–spasmodic, and stimulant.  It 
						has also been reported that valerian improves sleep 
						quality, and may have benefits for individuals with 
						stress, premenstrual syndrome, restless leg syndrome (RLS), 
						and muscle spasms. German ladies in the past drank Valerian tea often, 
						resulting in lowered nervous irritability.  In ancient 
						times, the same tea made from this root was used to 
						treat epilepsy. Called nature’s tranquilizer, valerian may work by 
						affecting the central nervous system, thus it is more a 
						psychological herb rather than a physiological one.  
						Valerian calms the nerves, relieves pain and spasms.  
						The roots sedative effect acts to decrease hypochondria 
						and aggression and bring sleep to those suffering from 
						anxiety, nervousness, exhaustion and insomnia.  Valerian 
						root has been used for these purposes since 
						pre-Christian times and is cited in virtually every 
						pharmacopoeia in the world. Studies on animals have shown that valerian appears to 
						affect GABA brain receptors, the amino acid associated 
						with anxiety.   It appears that valerian can help in the 
						treatment of insomnia and other sleep disorders by 
						working as a sedative to encourage calm and sleep while 
						also reducing anxiety.   Valerian relaxes muscle tissue 
						and relaxes the central nervous system. Valerian plays an important role in detoxing the 
						chemically addicted.  It can serve as a substitute for 
						Valium to help the addict sleep easily, relax and calm 
						down.   Excellent results have been obtained in cases of 
						hysteria and hypochondria, where the primary causes of 
						difficulty are emotional or mental.  Valerian also 
						antagonizes (opposes) the hypnotic effects of alcohol. In 
						cases of heart palpitations, it slows down the heart 
						while strengthening the heartbeat. Note : 
						If you are taking a medication check the counter 
						indications of that medication before you use valerian. Some medicinal uses: After-Birth Pains     High Blood Pressure     Bronchial 
						Spasms     Convulsions Heart Palpitations     Hysteria     Hypochondria     
						Muscle Spasms     Nervous Breakdown     Nervous 
						Conditions     Pain Relief     Sleeplessness Valerian does all the above without the side effects of 
						prescription drugs. Sour ces: Little Herb Encyclopedia, by Jack Ritchason; N.D., Woodland Publishing Incorporated, 1995 Nutritional Herbology, by Mark Pedersen, Wendell W. Whitman Company, 1998 Rodale's Illustrated Encyclopedia of Herbs, Rodale Press, Emmaus, Pennsylvania 1987 The Ultimate Healing System, Course Manual, Copyright 1985, Don Lepore Planetary Herbology, Michael Tierra, C.A., N.D., Lotus Press, 1988 Handbook of Medicinal Herbs, by James A. Duke, Pub. CRP Second Edition 2007 Western Botanicals Bulk Herbs Valerian root C.O., cut Valerian root C.O., pwd Herb Extracts Valerian root Org Alfalfa Angelica Sinensis Astragalus Barberry Root Barley Grass Bitter Orange Black Cohosh Black Walnut Boneset Butchers Broom Calendula Cayenne Chlorella Cornsilk Damiana Dandelion Echinacea Ephedra Eucalyptus Eyebright False Unicorn Fennel Garlic Ginger Root Gotu Kola Guarana GymnemaSylvestre Hawthorn Horseradish Juniper Berries Kava Kava Kelp Licorice Mandrake Marigold Marshmallow Milk Thistle Myrrh Neem Nettle Nutmeg Olive Leaf Parsley Pine Needles Poke Psyllium Red Clover Red Raspberry Rhubarb Rosemary Saint Johns Wort Sarsaparilla Senna Slippery Elm Turmeric Valerian Wheat Grass White Willow Wild Cherry Bark Wild Yam Wintergreen Important Note: The information presented herein by The Natural Path Botanicals 
				is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have 
				not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, 
				cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and 
				before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult 
				with your own health care provider. Contact Us - About - Glossary - Disclaimer - Links - Sitemap Ailments - Herbs - Supplements - Health - Programs - Articles - My Blogs - Products © 2007 The Natural P