</node/3>; rel="shortlink",</surgery-centers>; rel="canonical"
X-Generator: Drupal 7 (http://drupal.org)
Cache-Control: public, max-age=0
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding
Last-Modified: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 17:43:45 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Bariatric Surgery Centers by Pacific Bariatric Jump to Navigation Sign up to recieve our newsletter! Email * X Email Sign Up | Bariatric Surgery 101 | Contact A Lasting Solution to Clinically Severe Obesity A Designated Bariatric Center of Excellence Home The PBSMG Advantage The Program The Team The Center Your Options Gastric Banding Surgery Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Sleeve Surgery Patient Experiences Free Seminars Anaheim El Centro Riverside San Diego Lifelong Support You are here Home /  The PBSMG Advantage The PBSMG Advantage Pre-Op Questions: (800) 267-7212 Click here to attend a Free seminar in your area Gastric Bypass Surgery – Taking The Next Steps Change your life for the better. Change your life for good. Pacific Bariatric Surgery Center doesn't need to tell you about the downside of morbid obesity. If you're at least 100 pounds over your ideal body weight, you already know about the severe health risks. Not to mention the feelings of frustration, depression, and hopelessness that can be absolutely overwhelming. But, there is an answer. It's Pacific Bariatric. It is our mission to change your health and your life. We do it through a surgery called gastric bypass that creates lasting weight loss and, as a result, reduces life-threatening risk factors, improves your self-esteem, and enhances your daily living. Through years of scientific research and knowledge, leading-edge medical technology, advanced surgical expertise, and spiritual support you will discover a new you. We are further committed to providing you with: Thorough and honest answers to all of your questions about gastric bypass. Caring, experienced surgeons who are recognized experts in the field of bariatric surgery. Patient education and long-term follow-up care . State-of-the-art equipment and surgery center to accommodate all patients. A supportive, respectful staff to guide you through each step of the program. Easy insurance processes provided by our knowledgeable staff, including HMOs. No one should have to live with morbid obesity. And, you don’t have to anymore. With Pacific Bariatric Surgery Center, there is a way to reach and maintain a normal weight and change your life forever. If you are ready for the change, perhaps it’s time to consider a surgical solution that has helped thousands before. Perhaps it’s time to consider us. "Pacific Bariatric is so experienced and knowledgeable in the field of bariatric surgery that I didn’t want to put myself in anyone else’s hands." - Carla DesJardins Click here for more complete success stories on gastric bypass and bariatric surgery Looking for Answers? Before going through weight loss surgery consider attending a free seminar led by one of our nationally recognized bariatric surgeons. The PBSMG Advantage The Program The Team Dr. Rumsey Dr. Tanaka Dr. Zorn Dr. Taller The Center Pacific Bariatric has a no program fee policy. Click here to learn more >> Patient Experiences “This surgery was the best thing that ever happened to me. The hospital and the care I received there was absolutely wonderful. It’s changed my whole life...” - Daphne Zay “Pacific Bariatric was extremely supportive throughout my entire journey. Having the surgery at Scripps Hospital was the best experience I have ever had...” - Rosarie Hammerstein Click here to learn more >> CONTACT US Pacific Bariatric Surgical Medical Group 4060 Fourth Ave., Ste 330 San Diego, CA 92103 Pre-Op Questions: (619) 681-1933 or (800) 267-7212 Post-Op Questions: (619) 298-9931 For questions about our program or if you are currently in process please call (619) 681-1933 or (800) 267-7212 Click here for more information >> ©2