
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:21:10 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:21:10 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Health Talk - Bariatric Surgery Search Home Home Forums AB BC MB NB NL NS ON PEI QC SK NT/YK Overview Login Form Username Password Remember me Lost Password? No account yet? Register Main Menu Home Forums AB BC MB NB NL NS ON PEI QC SK NT/YK Overview Rate Canadian Hospitals Alberta Hospitals British Columbia Hospitals Manitoba Hospitals New Brunswick Hospitals Newfoundland Hospitals Nova Scotia Hospitals Ontario Hospitals P.E.I. Hospitals Quebec Hospitals Saskatchewan Hospitals The North Hospitals Top User Rated Hospitals Rockyview General Hospital, Calgary (1) University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton (1) Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre, Thunder Bay (1) Cobequid Community Health Centre (1) Queen Elizabeth II Hospital, Grande Prairie (1) Devon General Hospital, Devon (1) Stanton Regional Hospital, Yellowknife (1) Toronto General Hospital, Toronto (1) Misericordia Community Hospital, Edmonton (1) Royal Jubilee Hospital, Victoria (2) Most Popular Hospitals Royal Jubilee Hospital, Victoria (2) Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre, Thunder Bay (1) Prince County Hospital - Summerside (1) Misericordia Community Hospital, Edmonton (1) Queen Elizabeth II Hospital, Grande Prairie (1) Cobequid Community Health Centre (1) Stanton Regional Hospital, Yellowknife (1) Rockyview General Hospital, Calgary (1) University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton (1) St. Catharines General Site, St. Catharines (1) Toronto General Hospital, Toronto (1) Devon General Hospital, Devon (1) Latest News 'Maternity tourism' leaves MDs footing bill List of Recalled Maple Leaf Food Products Maple Leaf Foods Class Action Launched Health Discussion Boards Return Poultry, Eggs, Pork Safe for Human Consumption Most Searched Drug Info Effexor Zoloft Levitra Cialis Viagra Lipitor Conditions & Diseases Mumps Diabetes Sleep Apnea Depression Restless Leg Syndrome Featured Bariatric Surgery Asbestos Exposure Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Severe obesity is a chronic condition that is difficult to treat through diet and exercise alone. Gastrointestinal surgery is the best option for people who are severely obese and cannot lose weight by traditional means or who suffer from serious obesity-related health problems. The surgery promotes weight loss by restricting food intake and, in some operations, interrupting the digestive process. As in other treatments for obesity, the best results are achieved with healthy eating behaviors and regular physical activity. People who may consider gastrointestinal surgery include those with a body mass index (BMI) above 40—about 100 pounds of overweight for men and 80 pounds for women . People with a BMI between 35 and 40 who suffer from type 2 diabetes or life-threatening cardiopulmonary problems such as severe sleep apnea or obesity-related heart disease may also be candidates for surgery. The concept of gastrointestinal surgery to control obesity grew out of results of operations for cancer or severe ulcers that removed large portions of the stomach or small intestine. Because patients undergoing these procedures tended to lose weight after surgery, some physicians began to use such operations to treat severe obesity. The first operation that was widely used for severe obesity was the intestinal bypass. This operation, first used 40 years ago, produced weight loss by causing malabsorption. The idea was that patients could eat large amounts of food, which would be poorly digested or passed along too fast for the body to absorb many calories. The problem with this surgery was that it caused a loss of essential nutrients and its side effects were unpredictable and sometimes fatal. The original form of the intestinal bypass operation is no longer used. How Does Surgery Promote Weight Loss? Gastrointestinal surgery for obesity, also called bariatric surgery, alters the digestive process. The operations promote weight loss by closing off parts of the stomach to make it smaller. Operations that only reduce stomach size are known as “restrictive operations” because they restrict the amount of food the stomach can hold. Some operations combine stomach restriction with a partial bypass of the small intestine. These procedures create a direct connection from the stomach to the lower segment of the small intestine, literally bypassing portions of the digestive tract that absorb calories and nutrients. These are known as malabsorptive operations. Gastrointestinal surgery costs about $15,000. Medical insurance coverage varies by state and insurance provider. If you are considering gastrointestinal surgery, contact your regional Medicare or Medicaid office or in