Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - Veterinary Acupuncture Acupuncture.Com - Gateway to Chinese Medicine, Health and Wellness Store PATIENTS Conditions A-Z Acupuncture Clinic Find an Acupuncturist Herbal Remedies Diet & Nutrition Chi Gong &Tai Chi Chinese Medicine Basics Patient Testimonials Animal Acupuncture Store PRACTITIONERS/STUDENTS Syndromes A-Z AcuPoint Locator Herbology Practice Building CEUs/Events Employment Study Acupuncture Acupuncture Schools Research TCM Library Laws & Regulations Practitioner Links Practitioner Store MORE Points Newsletter Catalog Requests Contact Us About Acupuncture.Com Privacy Policy ANNOUNCEMENTS Acupuncture.Com accepts article contributions. Email 

							submissions to contact@acupuncture.com FIND AN ACUPUNCTURIST Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice Subscribe Keep informed on current news in the world of 

							Traditional Chinese Medicine. Home > Newsletters > April 
				2005 > Veterinary Acupuncture by Brian 
		Puterman For 
		centuries the healing art of acupuncture has been practiced on animals. 
		The origin of acupuncture dates back to ancient China. The Chinese 
		regularly practiced acupuncture on horses then gradually tried it on 
		other farm animals and finally dogs, cats and birds. This form of 
		healing work is based around bio-energy or Qi (See Shiatsu for a more 
		detailed explanation of Qi). Acupuncture serves to unblock Qi energy and 
		in so doing boosts the immune system which aids in self-healing. 
		Acupuncture causes the body to release endorphins and hormones while at 
		the same time decreasing inflammation both internally and externally. The Chinese discovered that animals 
		have similar meridians and reflex-points to humans. These meridians are 
		the fields in which Qi energy flows. The meridians are connected with 
		internal organs, muscular and joint structures, and the nervous system. 
		Acupuncture points, which lie on the meridians, are areas of the skin at 
		which the flow of Qi can be affected. When an animal is unhealthy, there 
		is an imbalance or interference with Qi flow. The acupuncturist 
		manipulates the animal’s Qi by stimulating specific acupuncture points, 
		which alleviates the blockage or imbalance. Not until Oswald Kothbauer in 
		Austria and Erwin Westermayer in Germany began experimenting with 
		treatment of cattle and horses did acupuncture begin to be recognized in 
		the west as a legitimate healing modality. In order for your veterinarian to 
		diagnose your pet it’s important for them to have a thorough 
		understanding of the body’s meridians and the relationship of those 
		meridians to the corresponding condition or illness. Here is a list of areas that respond 
		favorably to acupuncture. MUSCULO-SKELETAL This is the area most commonly 
		treated with acupuncture in western medical practice. Quite a few 
		veterinarians limit themselves to the treatment of arthritic disorders 
		or muscular injuries, ignoring the many other conditions and illnesses 
		which can benefit from acupuncture. GYNECOLOGICAL All female reproductive conditions 
		are acknowledged to respond to acupuncture treatment including anestrus, 
		metritis, dystocia, retained placenta, agalactia, mastitis and 
		mesalliance. MALE REPRODUCTIVE Impotence, orchitis, epididymitis, 
		and libido can be successfully treated. HORMONAL Almost all of the hormonal systems 
		can be affected, including all of the pituitary functions, thyroid and 
		parathyroid functions, and adrenal functions. It is also possible to 
		normalize blood sugar levels. NEUROLOGICAL/PSYCHOLOGICAL Anxiety, epilepsy and behavioral 
		disorders have all responded well to acupuncture treatments. DERMATOLOGICAL The skin can tell us if our pet is 
		getting proper nutrition and how well they’re disposing of waste through 
		the respiratory, digestive and urinary systems. If an acupuncturist can 
		keep these organs and systems in good condition, this will be reflected 
		in the skin. PERFORMANCE Acupuncture is being used to 
		indirectly influence the performance of a dog or horse. It’s best not to 
		use acupuncture 48 to 60 hours before a race due to the sedating effect. 
		After 48 hours or so there is an increase in vigor, vitality, and a 
		general feeling of well-being. Some veterinarians are now 
		practicing acupuncture with Helium-Neon lasers instead of needles. This 
		is said to avoid the slight discomfort to the animal that can be caused 
		by the insertion of needles. In addition, the operator does not have to 
		learn needle insertion techniques necessary to perform acupuncture. This 
		form of treatment is safe to tissue and cannot introduce infection. Electro-acupuncture is used to help 
		in some specific procedures. It’s used as an alternative when needles or 
		lasers do not seem to be working. Another variation on acupuncture is 
		called aquapuncture, which is the injection of a liquid into the main 
		acupuncture points. Some veterinarians have found that the effect lasts 
		longer then the insertion of needles. The liquids used in this technique 
		are usually homeopathic in nature. This modality takes less time to 
		perform then acupuncture. It is always good to keep in mind 
		that there are still a variety of conditions and illnesses that must be 
		treated with drugs and/or surgery. The use of acupuncture in conjunction 
		with drugs and/or surgery can immeasurably improve your companion 
		animal’s chances for a rapid and complete recovery. This Month's 
							Articles April, 
2005 Volume 3, Number 4 Veterinary 
								Acupuncture Overcoming 
								Insomnia - How to Achieve Quality, Peaceful 
								Sleep Qi 
								Soup for the TCM Soul Recent Research Ask The 
									Doctor Archives Archives 2005: January February March April Archives 2004: J | F | M | A | M | J | S 
	| N | D Archives 2003: J | F | M | A | M | J | A | O | N | D Sponsors All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All 
		rights reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school referral services 
		provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website is subject to our Terms and 
		Conditions . All logos, service 