
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 13:25:48 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

..:: Champions for an HIV Free Generation ::.. Press Release February 11th 2009 Mozambique:  Statement from the Champions by Former President Mogae... The Champions for an HIV-Free Generation  wish to express our sincere gratitude to President Armando Guebuza and the  people of Mozambique for  hosting us in Maputo  over the last two days. Our first country visit in the southern African region  turned out to be an inspiring and purposeful mission thanks to the extraordinary  support received. We came to Mozambique as part of a regional  mission to exchange ideas with government and civil society leaders on what can  be done to arrest the spread of HIV and AIDS in Sub Saharan Africa. We came to  reach out to our peers and to find solutions together. One of the priority issues for the Champions is male circumcision.  We believe there is incontrovertible evidence that male circumcision helps  reduce the chances of HIV transmission in heterosexual men by as much as 65  percent. It’s been demonstrated in Mozambique and in other countries  that areas with high prevalence of male circumcision show lower prevalence of  HIV. We are asking our regional leaders to consider the scaling up of  male circumcision as an urgent priority. Of course, this must be done responsibly  and with the understanding that circumcision only provides partial protection. It  must be introduced as part of a comprehensive prevention strategy that includes  correct and consistent use of condoms and faithfulness to one partner.  Male circumcision, if implemented, could  prevent an estimated two million infections in the southern African region over  the next 10 years and save as many as four millions lives over the next two  decades. In addition to male circumcision, the Champions discussed issues  surrounding multiple concurrent partnerships, gender, stigma and discrimination  and integrated, adequate funding of anti-AIDS initiatives in the broader  context of heath system strengthening. Our regional governments have declared  multiple concurrent partnerships one of the top drivers of the epidemic, and  the Champions believe this issue needs to be addressed immediately and urgently  by leadership through example and personal attention. Finally, the Champions wish to extend a special note of  gratitude to the Prime Minister Luisa Dias Diogo and the entire Board of the National  AIDS Council (CNCS) for sharing and discussing ideas of mutual interest. We  also would like to thank leaders of civil society groups of Mozambique for sharing your  thoughts. We look forward to future discussions and actions on these and other  issues. During out two days here, we met many Mozambican “Champions” who  work hard every day in this struggle against HIV and AIDS. We commend these  local Champions and congratulate your country for its progressive attitude. On  behalf of the Champions for an HIV-Free Generation, Obrigado. Home | Welcome | Champions | Activities | Press Room | HIV/AIDS | Contact Us | Jobs Private Bag 00318, Gaborone, Botswana, Tel: +267 369 7291, Fax: +267  391 4097, E-mail: champion@hivfreechampions.org Co