
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 10:49:50 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.20 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.20 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.sciaticareliefadvice.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2011  June Curing Sciatica Pain Tweet When you have problems with your sciatica, taking strides to keep your back in good health should become part of your everyday routine.  This goes beyond taking an anti-inflammatory or pain pill when flare ups occur.  The real relief from sciatica pain comes when you make changes in your life to keep the muscles in your back healthy. Today, many people find relief through exercise.  But it is very important to see your health care professional about which stretches and exercise routines will work best for you.  Plus, your health care provider will be able to rule out any other serious problems that might be causing your symptoms.  Stretching exercises that will offer you some relief from your sciatica symptoms should target the muscles that cause the pain because they are tight and inflexible. The sciatica nerve runs right through certain muscles in the back and legs.  When these muscles are tight, they compress the sciatica nerve, which is what causes your pain.  Your health care provider will also be able to give you advice on an exercise routine that can be tailored to address the underlying cause of your sciatic pain, such as a lumbar herniated disc or spinal stenosis. In addition to an exercise routine, you should minimize everyday stress on your lower back in order to avoid sciatica flare ups.  This includes using appropriate ergonomics while lifting, and maintaining good posture.  Using good posture pertains to sitting, standing, and lying down.  In order to maintain good posture while you’re sitting, you should make sure that your lower back is supported. Being able to lightly rest your back on the back of your chair when you’re sitting will help. You don’t want to sit too straight or lean too far back.  You could also improve your sitting posture by getting a footrest to bring your knees to the same level or a little higher than your hips.  Make sure your head is not leaning too far forward in an attempt to see what you’re working on. Have your reading material at a position or height where you can read it easily without bending over.  You should also adjust the height of your computer screen so that you can look at it straight on, not angled and not too low. To maintain a healthy back, you also should avoiding sitting or standing for long periods of time.  Take frequent breaks from prolonged sitting every thirty to sixty minutes.  If you do need to stand for long periods of time, you can periodically shift your weight from one foot to the other, and if possible, keep the resting foot a little elevated on a box or a curb. Try to avoid lying on your stomach as you sleep.  This position puts unnecessary stress on your muscles, ligaments, and disks.  If you can’t sleep without lying on your stomach, try putting a pillow under your hips to keep your spine aligned. When sciatica problems are a part of your life, it is essential to find a permanent relief from your pain by taking the steps to care for your lower back during the day. Stretches and Exercise for Sciatica Tweet One treatment for sciatica pain is to strengthen your abdominal and back muscles through simple exercises.  The stronger these muscles are, the less your spine has to carry the weight of most of your body.  Make sure to consult a doctor, certified athletic trainer, or a chiropractor who can give you advice on the right exercises for you.  Although it’s rare, sciatica can sometimes be caused by an infection or a tumor that requires medical attention.  So it’s very important to get an accurate diagnosis of the cause of the pain so you can adopt the right sciatica exercise program for your situation.  Plus, doing the wrong type of exercise can worsen the sciatic pain.  Doing the right exercises, but without proper form and training, can make the exercises ineffective, and could also lead to continued or increased sciatica pain. Exercise is better for relieving sciatic pain than bed rest.  You might want to rest for the first day or two after your sciatica flares up, but after that, inactivity will make your back pain worse.  With a lack of movement, your back muscles will become weak. That can lead to back injury and strain.  Plus, exercise keeps your spinal discs healthy and able to continue to exchange nutrients and fluids within the discs, which also prevents pressure on the sciatic nerve. Exercises should be done gently and regularly to build strength and flexibility. In addition to strengthening your abdominal and core muscles, you should focus on muscles that are directly associated with your sciatica, such as the piriformis muscle. The piriformis muscle is located on the inside of your buttocks, and the sciatica nerve runs right through it.  If this nerve tightens, it puts pressure on the sciatica nerve.  To stretch this muscle, lie flat on your back and pull your legs up to a 45 degree angle.  Place your right leg over your left as if you are crossing them, then gently pull them towards your chest until you feel the pull in your buttocks.  Hold the position for a minute and then release.  Switch legs and repeat the exercise. You should feel almost instant pain relief. Most types of sciatica will also benefit from a regular routine of hamstring stretching.  Hamstrings are the muscles that are located in the back of the thigh. When they are overly tight, they can increase the stress on your lower back, which often aggravates or can even cause some of the conditions that result in sciatica.  Walking is also an excellent and easy form of exercise for your lower back.  It is a relatively low impact exercise that can provide all the benefits you’re looking for.  If possible, you should gradually progress to walking up to three miles a day at a brisk pace. When you commit to a regular program of gentle strengthening and stretching exercises that target muscles associated with sciatica, you can recover more quickly from a flare up of sciatica, and you will be less likely to experience future bouts of pain. One treatment for sciatica pain is to strengthen your abdominal and back muscles through simple exercises.  The stronger these muscles are, the less your spine has to carry the weight of most of your body.  Make sure to consult a doctor, certified athletic trainer, or a chiropractor who can give you advice on the right exercises for you. Although it’s rare, sciatica can sometimes be caused by an infection or a tumor that requires medical attention.  So it’s very important to get an accurate diagnosis of the cause of the pain so you can adopt the right sciatica exercise program for your situation. Plus, doing the wrong type of exercise can worsen the sciatic pain.  Doing the right exercises, but without proper form and training, can make the exercises ineffective, and could also lead to continued or increased sciatica pain. Exercise is better for relieving sciatic pain than bed rest.  You might want to rest for the first day or two after your sciatica flares up, but after that, inactivity will make your back pain worse.  With a lack of movement, your back muscles will become weak. That can lead to back injury and strain. Plus, exercise keeps your spinal discs healthy and able to continue to exchange nutrients and fluids within the discs, which also prevents pressure on the sciatic nerve. Exercises should be done gently and regularly to build strength and flexibility. In addition to strengthening your abdominal and core muscles, you should focus on muscles that are directly associated with your sciatica, such as the piriformis muscle. The piriformis muscle is located on the inside of your buttocks, and the sciatica nerve runs right through it. If this nerve tightens, it puts pressure on the sciatica nerve.  To stretch this muscle, lie flat on your back and pull your legs up to a 45 degree angle.  Place your right leg over your left as if you are crossing them, then gently pull them towards your chest until you feel the pull in your buttocks.  Hold the position for a minute and then release.  Switch legs and repeat the exercise. You should feel almost instant pain relief. Most types of sciatica will also benefit from a regular routine of hamstring stretching.  Hamstrings are the muscles that are located in the back of the thigh. When they are overly tight, they can increase the stress on your lower back, which often aggravates or can even cause some of the conditions that result in sciatica.  Walking is also an excellent and easy form of exercise for your lower back.  It is a relatively low impact exercise that can provide all the benefits you’re looking for.  If possible, you should gradually progress to walking up to three miles a day at a brisk pace. When you commit to a regular program of gentle strengthening and stretching exercises that target muscles associated with sciatica, you can recover more quickly from a flare up of sciatica, and you will be less likely to experience future bouts of pain. Yoga Sciatica Tweet There are some people who believe that the body is fully capable of healing itself without a lot of invasive medical procedures or treatments.  Instead, they turn to a few unconventional natural treatments in order to cure their sciatica pain and improve their symptoms. Some people use vitamin D to improve their back pain.  Vitamin D is naturally produced by the body when it’s exposed to the sun. Recent studies have shown that many people who were suffering from some form of musculoskeletal disorder were deficient in vitamin D.  You can add vitamin D to your diet by taking supplements, or by simply getting more sunlight. Vitamin B12 will also aid in the health of your bones and brain.  A lack of vitamin B12 leads to decreased muscle control, and could lead to pernicious anemia.  B12 also helps reduce the intensity and frequency of acute and chronic back pain.  By taking vitamin B12 regularly, you can help to reduce or avoid your dependency on over-the-counter sciatica pain medications.  If your system lacks vitamin B12, you can add it by consuming various meats and poultry. When it comes to maintaining a healthy muscular and central nervous system, you have to make sure that your body receives enough magnesium. This somewhat under appreciated mineral is actually one of the most important trace minerals in the body.  Over three hundred chemical reactions in the human body require magnesium.  If you are lacking magnesium, you can add it to your diet by eating vegetables such as carrots, beets, celery, blackberries, broccoli, cauliflower, parsley, and spinach. We’ve all heard that exercise is vital to sciatica health in order to avoid pain and symptoms, but what about yoga? Yoga is an activity that improves the natural flexibility and strength of the human body .  A recent study showed that people with back pain had a reduction in flare ups due to yoga’s ability to strengthen and increase overall stability. You could also try massage therapy as a natural treatment to sciatica pain.  Massage therapy is perfect for people who suffer from acute sciatica attacks, and for those who experience chronic bouts of lower back pain.  Plus, pregnant women who are having a tough time adjusting to their weight gain will also benefit from gentle, lower back massage. Changing your diet is also a great natural way to relieve your back pain.  Look specifically for an anti-inflammation diet.  This type of diet focuses on avoiding foods that may be contributing to the chronic inflammation causing the pain.  The diet also teaches you which foods help reduce inflammation.  Some of these foods include nuts, fish, healthy fats and oils, different kinds of berries, and of course, lots of water. For those that suffer from acute sciatica attacks, you can follow these simple self-care guidelines to reduce pain during these times.  First, do not rest in bed all day or take long naps.  While you should avoid overly straining your back and lifting heavy items, it is better to remain active to keep your muscles from tightening up.  You can also apply hot packs to your back.  Direct heat is often more effective at relieving pain than pain killers.  If the pain is specifically in your lower back, apply hot and cold packs alternately. Although it’s always best to first see your doctor when you experience sciatica pain or symptoms, it is not always necessary to fill your body with chemicals such as pain killers.  In addition to lifestyle changes such as exercise, you can turn to natural choices to alleviate sciatica symptoms. Pain Relief for Sciatica Pain Tweet When you have intense pain running from your lower back down your legs due to sciatica, you’re looking for a source of pain relief that will curb your symptoms.  Relief from sciatica pain comes in many different forms, such as pain killers, exercise, an anti-inflammatory and other non-surgical treatments, plus surgical treatments. Not all sciatica cases require a radical form of treatment such as surgery.  Most cases of sciatica are treated with pain killers.  In very mild cases, ibuprofen, aspirin, or another over-the-counter medication will reduce the sufferer’s pain.  Many sciatica sufferers are also prescribed non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce symptoms and pain with the sciatica and the lower back in general.  If the pain does not subside, stronger pain killers such as codein may be prescribed, but medications such as this come with the risk of addiction, and therefore should not be taken lightly.  Muscle relaxers should also not be taken lightly.  Although they will help alleviate symptoms associated with sciatica, they can also make the user drowsy, putting them at risk when driving. Exercise is the best way to reduce sciatica symptoms for the long term.  With a proper exercise routine, you can train your muscles to become relaxed and strong, and therefore reduce the amount that these muscles are compressing on the sciatica nerve that runs through them.  When other options have failed, a health care provider might opt to perform spinal surgery.  When herniated discs are the cause of sciatica pain, your doctor might recommend doing a microdisectomy.  It’s a procedure to physically remove what is compressing the sciatic nerve. Sometimes sciatica pain and symptoms results from a condition known as spinal stenosis.  This condition causes nerve compression and can be alleviated with a surgical procedure called a lumbar laminectomy.  A lumbar laminectomy involves giving more space to the nerve bundles within the spinal column by removing bones from the vertebra. One of the oldest surgical procedures to reduce back pain is called a diskectomy.  This procedure involves removing the disc that is causing the problem, or that is diseased, from the spine.  Once the disc has been removed, the pressure on the nerve is relieved and sciatica pain and symptoms are reduced. One of the last options for patients with sciatica and back pain is to undergo a spinal fusion.  When a spinal fusion is done, the doctor joins two or more vertebrae together in order to relieve irritation and compression.  However, this procedure is only done when the spine has undergone years of physical injury, or when osteoporosis has set in.  The reason this option is left as a last resort is because once done, the patient is left with very little movement within the spine. Although the advances in medicine have been great for sciatica sufferers, pain relief is different for everyone.  What might work for one person may not work for someone else. Therefore, you should always seek medical advice when it comes to relieving sciatica pain. Sciatica Pregnancy Tweet The sciatic nerve runs under your uterus to your legs. Actual Sciatica nerve pain and discomfort is from a combination of pressure and inflammation on the nerve root. When pregnancy occurs, this nerve can have pressure causing the symptons of sciatic nerve anguish. Most of these treatments are rather simple and non-invasive, however, in extreme cases, surgery may be needed when the spinal column or spinal cord has been damaged. When not pregnant , one of the most  common ways that sciatica pain is treated is with everyday pain killers. These types of drugs prescribed by your doctor are typically a non-steroid,  anti-inflammatory, type of muscle relaxer.  The Addiction type of painkillers are Opiate-based , in which you NEVER EVER want to take when pregnant, as they have a very high risk of addiction for you, and possibly the child as well. Also, many Doctors and  Health care providers do recommend a daily dose of exercise to alleviate sciatica pain. Stretching the back area and back exercises and leg exercises  associated with sciatica nerve will certainly help ease the pressure on the sciatica. Chiropractors are always available to ask what type of exercises help the Sciatica nerve. Many of them will give out free advice. So what can one do to address sciatic nerve painfulness during several months of pregnancy? One remedy, and probably the easiest, is to lie on your side, opposite of the pain, and unwind as much as you can. This may help relieve the pressing on the nerve. Some things you don’t need to do is heavy lifting, or standing for a extensive time. If you have to get up, attempt elevating one foot on something and resting it. Going for a go for a dip in the pool can also ease some of the pain. You should always contact your physician or health care provider if the pain continues or is constant, especially while pregnant. Ensure you know what exactly is going on. I’ve heard all the excuses about babies pressing against the sciatic nerve and that is the reason for the pain, but in many cases, that is NOT the reason. Your body is changing and most of the time it is simply from that change and pressure on the sciatic nerve. Remember, most of the time sciatica nerve pain  in pregnancy is caused by the similar causes mentioned above, and not the baby. The sciatic nerve runs under your uterus to your legs. Actual Sciatica nerve pain and discomfaort  is  from a combination of pressure and inflammation on the nerve root. When pregnancy occurs, this nerve can have pressure causing the symptons of sciatic nerve anguish. Most of these treatments are rather simple and non-invasive, however, in extreme cases, surgery may be needed when the pinal column or spinal cord has been damaged. When not pregnant , one of the most  common ways that sciatica pain is treated is with everyday pain killers. These types of drugs prescribed by your doctor are typically a non-steroid,  anti-inflammatory, type of muscle relaxer.  The Addiction type of painkillers are Opiate-based , in which you NEVER EVER want to take when pregnant, as they have a very high risk of addiction for you, and possibly the child as well. Also, many Doctors and  Health care providers do recommend a daily dose of exercise to alleviate sciatica pain. Stretching the back area and back exercises and leg exercises  associated with sciatica never will certainly help ease the pressure on the sciatica. Chiropractors are always available to ask what type of exercises help the Sciatica nerve. Many of them will give out free advice. So what can one do to address sciatic nerve painfulness during several months of pregnancy? One remedy, and probably the easiest, is to lie on your side, opposite of the pain, and unwind as much as you can. This may help relieve the pressing on the nerve. Some things you don’t need to do is heavy lifting, or standing for a extensive time. If you have to get up, attempt elevating one foot on something and resting it. Going for a go for a dip in the pool can also ease some of the pain. You should always contact your physician or healh care provider if the pain continues or is constant, especially while pregnant. There is nothing more frustrating than having a condition while pregnant. Sciatica without being pregnant is dreadful in itself. Having Sciatica during pregnancy is outright awful.  The good news is  there are some things you can do to help you with sciatica pain, which are very straight forward and simple, like easing the pain by laying on the opposite side as mentioed above. But first ensure you know what exactly is going on. One thing to mention is that most people always assume that the baby itself is the one pressing against the sciatic nerve. However most of the time sciatica never pain  in pregnancy is caused by the similar causes mentioned above, and not the baby. Get your free Get Your FREE Sciatica Relief and Cures 'Mini' Course & eBook Here Get your free mini-course and eBook on Sciatica Relief and Cures. Just enter your first name and e-mail address in the form below, and we'll email you your first lesson right now. Name: Email: Rate Your Pain Not Much Very Little Pain Annoying Pain Constant Hurting Pain I think I need surgery **Double-check your email for accuracy to ensure you receive your free mini course. Privacy Assured: Your email address is never shared with anyone Interesting Articles Sciatica Pregnancy Pain Relief for Sciatica Pain Yoga Sciatica Stretches and Exercise for Sciatica Curing Sciatica Pain Facts About Sciatica ©Copyright www.sciaticareliefadvice.co