
Cascara Sagrada All-Natural Products Digestive Enzymes Colon & Liver Combination Colon Cleanse Probiotics Digestive Wellness Multivitamin Liver Cleanse Energy Enhancement Weight Management Daily Fiber Supplement View All Products Digestive Health Test Gain a better understanding of your symptoms in 5 minutes. Simple and effective
                                            suggestions to start improving your health... all designed just for you! Success Stories We're thankful to have helped thousands of people take control of their health.
                                            Here are just some of their heart–warming stories of triumph. Bloating & Gas Colon Cancer Irritable Bowel Syndrome Parasites Gluten Intolerance Diarrhea Digestive Enzymes Constipation Crohn's Disease Liver Enzymes Colitis Hemorrhoids Diverticulitis Twisted Colon Hepatitis C Weight Loss Anal Fissures Allergies Energy / Fatigue Depression Acne Read All Success Stories Article Library Knowledge Is Power . Puristat Empowers you with information you need to take
                                            control of your health. The Benefits Valuable Knowledge Quality Solutions Empowering Support Medical & Science Team Dr. Jim Steigerwait Dr. Scott D. Olson Dr. Amy Denman Vickie M. Hudspeth, RRN, CLNC, IAFN Jim P. Danna, MS Home Alternative Medicine Cascara Sagrada Cascara Sagrada Bark Cascara Sagrada was first used by Native Americans as a laxative and was known to them as "sacred bark". The Native Americans passed on their knowledge of their "sacred bark" to Spanish explorers. From then on it became Cascara Sagrada, which is Spanish for "sacred bark". Cascara Sagrada was  formally introduced into to western medicine in 1877 as an herbal laxative. It then became more widely used pharmaceutically to help ease cases of chronic constipation in 1978. Today "Cascara Sagrada is recognized as safe and effective by the Food and Drug Administration" (Supplements: Cascara Sagrada, p2). Cascara Production Cascara Sagrada is dried bark which comes from a small tree in the buckthorn family; it can be found in the Pacific Northwest . The bark is harvested in the spring and summer and is aged over a period of no less than one year. The aging allows active principles in the bark to become milder as the fresh bark is much too strong of a laxative. Constipation and Cascara Cascara Sagrada's primary function is to promote more frequent and more normal bowel movements. "Cascara is considered by some experts to be the safest and most effective laxative available" (Nature's Gentle Answer To Constipation, p 7). It works by stimulating and speeding up the large intestine's wavelike contractions. When this happens this allows for bowels to pass through more frequently which results in a softer and quicker bowel movement. The stimulating of the wavelike contractions also tones the lower bowel which helps to prevent against future constipation. "Cascara Sagrada actually tones and strengthens the bowels while it helps to restore normal function" (Nature's Gentle Answer to Constipation, p 10). Unlike most laxatives Cascara Sagrada is not habit forming and it is not necessary to increase dosages constipation with each use. "It is safe enough to use for chronic or habitual , while other widely publicized over-the-counter preparations can cause significant dependency" (Nature's Gentle Answer to Constipation, p 10, 11). Internal Cleansing and Cascara There are a numerous benefits to cleansing the colon, and Cascara Sagrada plays a key role in the cleansing process. It is widely believed, in the medical field that the build up of toxic materials in the colon can contribute to illness. "Many current physicians agree that bacterial poisons absorbed from the intestinal tract can contribute to almost every chronic disease known" (Nature's Gentle Answer to Constipation, p13). Cascara Sagrada increases the wavelike contractions of the bowel which cleanses and tones the colon. The cleansing rids the colon of toxic waste and the toning helps to prevent against future build-up. Your colon is dependent upon this type of cleansing maintenance in order to for you to have proper elimination. Cascara Sagrada is an excellent cleanser and toner of the bowel whether taken alone or in conjunction with other herbs. Hemorrhoids, Anal Fissures and Cascara Straining that is associated with constipation can often lead to hemorrhoids and anal fissures . Cascara Sagrada helps to alleviate the constipation by the creation of softer stools. Softer more frequent stools will help to heal and prevent the hemorrhoids and fissures. Gallbladder, Pancreas and Liver Function and Cascara Cascara Sagrada can help to heal your whole body, and this is evident in the positive effects it has on other organ function. This herb can stimulate the secretions from your liver and pancreas and stimulate your gallbladder. Increased secretions of the liver and pancreas will enhance your overall digestive process and enable your gallbladder ducts to rid gallstones more easily. Summary of Benefits Effective treatment for chronic constipation and symptoms relating to constipation. Not habit forming and helps cleanse and restore natural tone of your colon. Helps to relieve problems with hemorrhoids and anal fissures through forming softer bowel movements. It helps to increase secretions from your liver and pancreas, which stimulates your gallbladder and increases overall health of your digestive system. Now, How Can We Help You? Take our Free Colon Health Assessment and gain a 
            better understanding of your symptoms in 5 minutes. You'll get simple and effective suggestions 
            to start improving your health... all designed just for you! Visit the Puristat line of all–natural products , where 
            you get the maximum nutritional, protective benefits of our scientifically designed formulas. 
            Our products are free of gluten, soy, dairy, yeast and other potential allergens and we follow 
            the highest Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). Hungry for more cutting–edge information? Want to achieve your best health today?  Visit our Article Library , or call 1–800–492–4984 and speak with 
            one of our Digestive Wellness Specialists now. Comment on this article: ^ return to top ^ Digestive Wellness Center Colon Cleansing Colon Cleanse Article Colon Cleanse Testimonials Bacteria Probiotics Cancer Colonoscopy Detox Diet (Advanced) Detox Diet (Basic) FAQ Function Hydrotherapy Image GI System Image Colon Low Stomach Acid Natural Cures Info Polyps Probiotics Transit Time Twisted "Waste" Weight Loss Liver Detox Liver Cleanse Article Liver Cleanse Diet Liver Disease Symptoms Acetaminophen Dangers Alcoholic Liver Disease Biopsy Budd-Chiari Syndrome (BCS) Cancer Cirrhosis Cysts Elevated Liver Enzymes Liver Enzyme Chart Fatty Liver (NAFLD) Fibrosis Function Gallstones Gilbert's Syndrome Hemochromatosis: Iron Overload Hepatitis Hep C Triumph Jaundice Milk Thistle Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis (PSC) Primary Biliary Cirrhosis
        (PBC) Transplantation Wilson's Disease Bloating-Flatulence Bloating & Gas Overview Anti-Flatulence
        Diet Bloating & Menopause Digestion Tips Digestive Enzymes Distention Food Combining Food Comb. Chart Foods That Cause
        Gas Indigestion Low Stomach Acid Probiotics Protein vs. Starches SIBO Brain-Gut Connection The Secret Life of Serotonin Children's Health Children's Health Overview Allergies & Food Intolerances Celiac Disease Constipation Diarrhea Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Reflux Constipation Constipation Overview Anal Fissures Bowel Color Castor Oil Enemas Epsom Salts Hemorrhoids Laxatives Suppositories Intestinal Parasites Parasite Overview Pinworms Tapeworms Types Candida Albicans Candida Overview Endocrine Factor Diabetes Diabetes Overview Amputations Carbo-Land Dental Health Dia-Besity Diagnosis Hyperglycemic Hyperosmolar Syndrome (HHS) Hyperglycemia Hypoglycemia Insulin Delivery Multivitamins Pre-Diabetes Sugar-Foods Diverticulitis Diverticulitis Overview Diets Image Environmental Toxins Toxins Overview Fiber Fiber Chart Dietary Fiber Psyllium Weightloss and Fiber Fibromyalgia Fibromyalgia Overview Fatigue Fatigue Overview Chronic Fatigue Symptoms Testing Toxicity Gallbladder Disease, Function Gallstones Gluten Intolerance Gluten Intolerance Overview Diets Blood Pressure High Blood Pressure Inflammatory Bowel Disease Inflammatory Bowel Disease Crohn's Disease Ulcerative Colitis Irritable Bowel Disease IBS Overview Diarrhea Illustration Probiotics Infertility & Detox Fertility Tips Infertility & Detoxification Kidney Kidney Overview Cancer Detoxification Dialysis Transplants Malabsorption Syndrome Malabsorption Syndrome Pancreas Pancreas Overview Alternative Treatment Cancer Pancreatitis Vitamins & Herbs Vitamin Deficiency Overview Aging Gracefully with Vitamins Vitamin Ingredient Benefits Fat Facts Pesticides in Food Processed Foods Processed Foods Facts Recommended (RDA) Trans Fats Wonderful Vitamin D Stomach Stomach Overview - Function Gastritis Gastroparesis GERD Helicobacter Pylori "Waste" Weight Loss Colon Cleanse "Waste" Weight Conjugated Linoleic Acid (CLA) Fiber Benefits Obesity Total Internal Cleaning 7-Steps to Weight Loss Steps All
      Products Colon/Liver
      Cleanse Colon
      Cleanse Liver
      Cleanse Digestive
      Enzymes 35 Billion
      Probiotic Energy Supplements Fiber Supplements Digestive
      Health Vitamins Weight Management Stay conntected with Puristat! Home Page | Contact | Privacy Policy | Sitemap These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. © 200