
Rheumatoid Arthritis Search
        Knowledgebase Topic Contents Overview Health Tools FAQs Cause Symptoms What Happens What Increases Your Risk When to Call a Doctor Exams and Tests Treatment Overview Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis Medications Surgery Other Treatment Other Places To Get Help Related Information References Credits Healthy Joint vs. Damaged Joint Rheumatoid Arthritis Zones Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Hands Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Foot Rheumatoid Nodules X-Ray of Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Feet X-Ray of Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Hands Rheumatoid Arthritis Overview Is this topic for you? There are many types of arthritis (disease of the joints). This topic is about
		  rheumatoid arthritis. If you are looking for information about how juvenile
		  idiopathic (rheumatoid) arthritis affects young children, see the topic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis . If you are looking for
		  information on the most common form of arthritis in older adults, see the topic Osteoarthritis . What is rheumatoid arthritis? Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes
		  tissues lining the joints to become swollen, stiff, and painful ( inflamed ). Over time, this
		  inflammation may destroy the joint tissues. This can limit your daily
		  activities and make it hard for you to walk and use your hands. Rheumatoid arthritis is more common in women than in men. It often
		  begins between the ages of 40 and 60. What causes rheumatoid arthritis? The exact cause is not known. But rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease . This means that the body's natural
		  defense system attacks the joints. The disease may run in some families. What are the symptoms? The main symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis are pain, stiffness, and
		  swelling in the joints of the hands, wrists, elbows, feet, ankles, knees, or
		  neck. The disease usually affects both sides of the body at the same time. In
		  rare but severe cases, it may affect the eyes, lungs, heart, nerves, or blood
		  vessels. See a picture of the most commonly affected joints . Sometimes the disease
		  can cause bumps called nodules to form over the elbows, knuckles, spine, and
		  lower leg bones. How is rheumatoid arthritis diagnosed? There is no single test for rheumatoid
		  arthritis. Your doctor will do a physical exam and look at your joints for signs of swelling or
		  tenderness. He or she will also ask about your symptoms and past health. You may have blood tests,
		  X-rays, and other tests to find out if another problem
		  is causing your joint pain. How is it treated? Treatment  for  rheumatoid arthritis continues throughout your life. It includes medicine,
		  exercise, and lifestyle changes. Getting treatment early may control the condition or keep it from getting worse. Many of
		  the medicines used to treat rheumatoid arthritis have side effects. So it is
		  important to have regular checkups and talk with your doctor about any
		  problems. This will help your doctor find a treatment that works for you. At home, there are things you can do to relieve your symptoms. Rest when you are tired. Protect
			 your joints from injury by using devices like special kitchen tools or
			 doorknobs. Use splints, canes, or walkers to ease pain and take
			 stress off your joints if your symptoms are severe. Eat a
			 balanced diet. Exercise regularly. Stay at a healthy
			 weight. If you try medicine, exercise, and lifestyle changes for at least a few years but they don't help, surgery may be an option. Total joint replacement of the hip and knee are the most successful. It can be hard to live with a long-term
		  illness that can limit your ability to do things. It is common for people with
		  rheumatoid arthritis to feel depressed. Your mood can affect how you feel and how well you cope with pain.  Be sure to seek the help and
		  support you need from friends and family members. Professional counseling can also help. Health Tools Health Tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve your health. Actionsets are designed to help people take an active role in managing a health condition. Arthritis: Managing Rheumatoid Arthritis Frequently Asked Questions Learning about rheumatoid arthritis: What is rheumatoid arthritis? What causes it? What are the symptoms? What increases my risk of getting it? What happens with rheumatoid arthritis? How does a normal joint work? What does rheumatoid arthritis do to my body? What happens to the joints in rheumatoid arthritis? Can rheumatoid arthritis affect parts of the body besides the joints? What is an autoimmune disease? What else could be causing my symptoms? How common is rheumatoid arthritis? Being diagnosed: How is rheumatoid arthritis diagnosed? What do doctors look for in diagnosing rheumatoid arthritis? What's the difference between rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis? Getting treatment: What steps can I take to help control the disease? What medicines can I take for rheumatoid arthritis? What treatments besides medicines might be used for rheumatoid arthritis? Why is early treatment important? When should I consider surgery for rheumatoid arthritis? Are there home treatments for rheumatoid arthritis? Ongoing concerns: What type of doctor can best treat my rheumatoid arthritis? Why is it important that I work closely with my health professionals? Living with rheumatoid arthritis: How will rheumatoid arthritis affect my daily activities? Can I exercise if I have rheumatoid arthritis? How can I manage rheumatoid arthritis? Cause The cause of
		  rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is not fully understood. Genes play a role, but experts
		  don't know exactly what that role is. For most people with RA, the disease
		  doesn't run in their families and they don't pass it along to their children.
		  One or more genes may make it more likely that the body's immune system will attack the tissues of the joints . This immune response may also be triggered by
		  bacteria, a virus, or some other foreign substance. More information What Causes Joint Pain Besides Rheumatoid Arthritis? Symptoms Joint pain can be an early symptom of many
		  different diseases. In
		  rheumatoid arthritis, symptoms often develop slowly
		  over a period of weeks or months. Fatigue and stiffness are usually early
		  symptoms. Weight loss and a low-grade fever can also
		  occur. Joint symptoms include: Painful, swollen, tender, stiff joints . The same joints on both sides of the body
			 (symmetrical) are usually affected, especially the hands , wrists, elbows, feet , ankles, knees, or neck. Morning
			 stiffness. Joint stiffness may develop after long periods of sleeping or
			 sitting. It lasts at least 60 minutes and often up to several
			 hours. Bumps ( nodules ). Rheumatoid nodules ranging in
			 size from a pea to a mothball develop in nearly one-third of people who have
			 rheumatoid arthritis. Nodules usually form over pressure points in the body
			 such as the elbows, knuckles, spine, and lower leg bones. In addition to specific joint symptoms, rheumatoid arthritis can cause
		  symptoms throughout the body (systemic). These include: Fatigue. A loss of
			 appetite. Weight loss. Mild fever. Some of the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis may be similar
		  to symptoms of other health conditions . More information Symptom Stages of Rheumatoid Arthritis Characteristics of Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis What Happens The course of
		  rheumatoid arthritis is hard to predict. It usually progresses slowly, over months or years. In some people it doesn't get worse, and symptoms stay about the same. But in rare cases, symptoms come on rapidly, within days. Symptoms can come and go. You may have times in your life when joint pain goes away on its own for a while. This is called remission . If the disease progresses, joint pain can
		  restrict simple movements, such as your ability to grip, and daily activities,
		  such as climbing stairs. It is a common cause of permanent
		  disability. But early treatment may control the disease and keep it from getting worse. Rheumatoid arthritis is more likely to get worse when: A rheumatoid factor blood test is
			 positive. A blood test for the antibody CCP (cyclic citrullinated
			 peptide) is positive. The disease fails to respond to
			 therapy. Bumps ( nodules ) form rapidly. Many joints are affected. X-rays show early
			 loss of bone or cartilage . Joint damage The ongoing inflammation caused by rheumatoid arthritis affects the tissues that line joints. It causes a breakdown in cartilage and loosens ligaments and tendons that support the joints. The resulting joint destruction can lead to deformed joints. The pain, stiffness, fatigue, and
			 whole-body (systemic) symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis can be
			 disabling. Over time, the deformity caused by the disease can lead to difficulty with daily activities.
			 Specific joint problems may also occur later in the course of the
			 disease. Hands and wrists are the most common location for
			 deformities. See a picture of the most common problems in the hands . The
			 feet are also often affected. See a picture of common problems in the feet caused by rheumatoid arthritis. Inflammation of the knees, if not controlled by
			 treatment, can cause erosion of cartilage and can later lead to the need
			 for knee replacement surgery. Rheumatoid arthritis can also damage  the cervical spine, or neck. This damage can limit how easily you can move your neck. In rare cases, the
			 damage can pinch a nerve or affect the spinal cord and cause numbness, pain, weakness, or paralysis in the arms or legs. Other problems In a small number of severe cases,  the disease may damage other organs . It is common for people with rheumatoid arthritis to feel depressed . These feelings may be caused by pain and
		  progressive disability. Most women with rheumatoid arthritis can become pregnant and have a healthy baby. More information What Does Rheumatoid Arthritis Do to My Body? What Is My Prognosis With Rheumatoid Arthritis? What Increases Your Risk The only known risk factor
		  for
		  rheumatoid arthritis is a possible inherited factor in
		  some families ( genetic predisposition). A genetic factor may affect
		  how the immune system works. It can cause inflammation and
		  eventual destruction of the membranes that line the
		  joints. Other factors that may increase
		  your risk for rheumatoid arthritis include: Being female. Rheumatoid arthritis affects
			 women 2 to 3 times as often as men. 1 Being
			 between the ages of 40 and 60. Rheumatoid arthritis can begin at any age, but
			 it most often begins in adulthood. 2 When to Call a Doctor Call your health professional immediately if you have: Sudden, unexplained swelling and pain in any joint or joints. Joint pain associated
			 with a fever or rash. Pain that is so severe that you cannot use
			 the joint. Call your health professional within the next few days if
		  you have: Mild to moderate joint pain that continues and
			 has not improved for over 6 weeks. Side effects that occur with
			 large doses of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or other
			 medicine used to treat your arthritis. Watchful Waiting It is reasonable to try home
			 treatment for mild joint pain and stiffness. If there is no improvement after 6
			 weeks, or if any other symptoms are present, call your doctor. Early treatment can slow and sometimes prevent significant joint damage.
			 So if you have symptoms similar to rheumatoid arthritis, see
			 your doctor to find out if you have rheumatoid arthritis.
			 Early diagnosis and treatment allows for possible reduction of joint pain,
			 slows joint destruction, and reduces the chance of permanent disability. Who to See Early arthritis symptoms can be
			 diagnosed by: A nurse practitioner . A physician assistant . A family medicine doctor . An internist . A rheumatologist . Rheumatoid arthritis can be treated by: A rheumatologist. A family medicine doctor or an internist who consults with a rheumatologist. Supportive treatment can be provided by: An orthopedic surgeon , if surgery is needed. A physical therapist . An occupational
				therapist . Getting counseling . Exams and Tests No single lab test can diagnose
		  rheumatoid arthritis. Instead, doctors look at symptoms and physical signs and then rule out other diseases that
		  can cause similar symptoms. A medical history and physical exam are usually
		  done to help find the cause of joint pain. The pattern and nature of
		  joint symptoms are the most important clues
		  to the diagnosis. Diagnosis is based on a set of classification criteria . The
		  following tests may be done: Complete blood count Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (may help to assess disease activity) C-reactive protein (may help to assess disease activity) Rheumatoid factor Antinuclear antibody assay Anti-CCP
			 (cyclic citrullinated peptide) antibody test (helps confirm diagnosis and may
			 show your risk of having severe symptoms) Joint fluid analysis Tissue type test X-rays (see X-ray images of rheumatoid arthritis in the feet and in the hands ) Other tests may be done to check for side effects of
		  treatment. These tests may include: Kidney function tests. Liver and
			 muscle enzyme tests. Bone density test , to check for bone loss ( osteoporosis ). Eye exam . Regular checkups Because rheumatoid arthritis can lead to severe joint
		  destruction and disability over time, regular checkups are important to see if treatment is working or
		  needs to be adjusted. More information Your First Doctor Visit for Rheumatoid Arthritis What Is Rheumatoid Factor? Treatment Overview Rheumatoid arthritis is most often treated with medicine, exercise, and lifestyle
		  changes. Treatment may help relieve symptoms and control the disease, but there
		  is no cure. Treatment for rheumatoid arthritis usually continues throughout
		  your life, but it will vary depending on: The stage (active or in remission ) and severity of your
			 disease. Your treatment history. The benefits and risks
			 of treatment options. Your preferences for treatment options, such
			 as cost, side effects, and daily schedules. The goal of treatment is to help you maintain your
		  lifestyle, reduce joint pain, slow joint damage, and prevent disability. Making a plan Treatment
		  of
		  rheumatoid arthritis should start with education about
		  the disease, the possibility of joint damage and disability, and the risks and
		  benefits of potential treatments. A long-term treatment plan should be
		  developed by you and your team of doctors. Treatment with medicines Early and ongoing treatment of
		  RA with medicines called disease-modifying antirheumatic
		  drugs (DMARDs)  can slow or sometimes prevent joint
		  destruction. 3 Other medicines may be combined with DMARDs to relieve symptoms. These medicines include: Medicines that reduce swelling , including ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin) and naproxen (such as Aleve or Naprosyn). Medicines that relieve pain, such as acetaminophen , codeine, and hydrocodone. Corticosteroids for early treatment, to control flare-ups, or to help manage the disease. For more information, see Medications . Lifelong care Treatment for
		  rheumatoid arthritis usually continues throughout your
		  life. Your doctor will want to closely monitor your condition. A
		  rheumatologist should evaluate you regularly. Depending on your symptoms and
		  treatment, this could be done as often as every 2 to 3 months or every 6 to 12 months. Testing, such as blood tests, may be done
		  more often. During each follow-up visit, your doctor will assess: The amount of joint pain. How long
			 morning stiffness lasts. The number of actively inflamed
			 joints. How well you are functioning. Results of lab  tests. In some cases, the disease does not respond to
		  the first several treatments. When this happens, the disease may be
		  treated with much higher doses of medicines or with different combinations of
		  medicines. Surgery may be considered when the joints—especially the hips,
		  knees, or feet—are severely damaged or deformed and are causing extreme pain.
		  Surgery may include total joint replacement or other techniques to improve
		  joint function. For more information, see Surgery and Other Treatment . Exercise and lifestyle changes Exercise, physical therapy, and lifestyle
		  changes can help relieve joint pain. Many people with RA
		  benefit from self-care plans that balance rest and activity. You can take steps at home to relieve your symptoms and help control your disease. For more information, see Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis . More information Treatments Besides DMARDs for Rheumatoid Arthritis Side Effects of Treatment for Rheumatoid Arthritis Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis Living with
		  rheumatoid arthritis  often means making changes to
		  your lifestyle. You can do things at home, such as staying active and taking
		  medicines, to help relieve your symptoms and prevent the disease from getting
		  worse. For help managing your disease,
		  see: Arthritis: Managing Rheumatoid Arthritis . You can also plan for those times when the disease symptoms
		  may be more severe. It is important to work closely with your health
		  professionals, who may include a physical therapist or counselor, to find ways to
		  reduce pain. Rest when you're tired The disease itself causes fatigue. And the
		  strain of dealing with pain and limited activities also can make you tired. The
		  amount of rest you need depends on how bad your symptoms are. With severe symptoms, you may need long periods
			 of rest. You might need to rest a joint by lying down for 15 minutes several
			 times a day to relax. Try to find a balance between daily
			 activities that you must do or want to do and the amount of rest you need to do those activities. Plan your day carefully, including
			 rest periods. Pace your activities so that you don't get
			 overtired. Protect your joints You may need to change the way you do certain activities so that you are not
		  overusing your joints. Try to find different ways to relieve your joint
		  pain. Joint pain and stiffness may improve with heat
			 therapy, such as: Taking warm showers or baths after long
				  periods of sitting or sleeping. Soaking hand joints in warm wax
				  baths. Sleeping under a warm electric blanket. Use assistive devices to reduce strain on your joints,
			 such as special kitchen tools or doorknobs. Use splints, canes, or
			 walkers to reduce pain and improve function. Stay active Keep moving to
		  maintain muscle strength, flexibility, and overall health. Physical therapy may be recommended by
			 your doctor. Exercise for arthritis takes three forms—stretching,
			 strengthening, and conditioning. Both weight-bearing exercise and strength training improve or maintain the
			 quality of life for people with rheumatoid arthritis. 4 , 5 Your specific joint problem may
			 guide the type of activity that will help the most. For example: Swimming is a good activity if
				  you have joint problems in your knees, ankles, or
				  feet. Bicycling and walking are good activities if your
				  joint problems are not in your legs or feet. Learn more about walking as aerobic exercise . Eat a balanced diet Try to eat a healthy, balanced diet. It should be low in saturated fat, cholesterol, and salt and high in fiber and complex
		  carbohydrate (whole grains, beans, fruits, and vegetables). According to some studies, fish oil may improve your symptoms. 6 Be sure to get enough calcium and vitamin D to protect your bones against osteoporosis.
			 For more information, see the topic Osteoporosis . Lose weight, if you are
			 overweight. For more information, see the topic Weight Management . People who have rheumatoid arthritis also have an increased
		  risk of heart disease. But healthy lifestyle changes, such as exercise and a
		  healthy diet, may reduce your risk. 7 For more information, see the topics Healthy Eating and Fitness . Medications Medicines are the main treatment for
		  rheumatoid arthritis. The types of medicines used
		  depend on how severe your disease is, how fast it is progressing, and how it
		  affects your daily life. If your symptoms ease, you and your
		  doctor will decide if you can take less medicine or stop taking medicine.
		  If your symptoms get worse, you will have to start taking medicine again. Medicines are used to: Relieve or reduce pain. Improve
			 daily function. Reduce joint inflammation. Signs of joint
			 inflammation include swelling, tenderness, and limited range of
			 motion. Prevent or delay significant
			 joint damage and deformity. Prevent
			 permanent disability. Improve quality of life. Medicines called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs
		  (DMARDs) can slow or sometimes prevent joint destruction. Starting treatment early with DMARDs can reduce the severity of the disease. 3 DMARDs are also called immunosuppressive drugs or
		  slow-acting antirheumatic drugs (SAARDs). These medicines work best when taken over a long period to help control the disease. 8 DMARDS can be divided
		  into two general categories based on how they work: oral DMARDs and biologic
		  DMARDs. Oral DMARDS are taken by mouth. They interfere with the making or
		  working of immune cells that cause joint inflammation. Biologic DMARDS are
		  given by injection (infusion). They act in several different ways to affect how
		  immune cells work. DMARDs decrease joint
		  inflammation and damage. Medicines may be
		  given together. This is called combination therapy. Oral medicines are combined
		  with each other or with biologic DMARDs. But biologic DMARDs are not used
		  with each other because of a higher risk of infection. By combining medicines, you may be able to take lower doses of individual medicines. This may reduce your risk of side effects. Some medicines for rheumatoid arthritis may cause birth defects. If you
		  are pregnant or are trying to become pregnant, talk with your doctor about your medicines. Medication Choices Medicines to slow the disease Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs
			 (DMARDs) are usually started within 3 months of your diagnosis. They are used to
			 control the progression of RA and to try to prevent joint
			 damage and disability. DMARDs are often given in combination with other
			 medicines. Commonly used oral DMARDs: Antimalarials such as
				hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) or chloroquine (Aralen) Leflunomide (Arava) Methotrexate such as Rheumatrex Sulfasalazine such as Azulfidine Less commonly used oral DMARDs: Azathioprine such as
				Imuran Cyclophosphamide such as Cytoxan Cyclosporine such as Neoral or
				Sandimmune Gold salts such as Ridaura or
				Aurolate Minocycline such as Dynacin or Minocin Penicillamine such as Cuprimine or Depen Biologic DMARDs: Abatacept (Orencia) Adalimumab (Humira) Anakinra (Kineret) Etanercept (Enbrel) Infliximab (Remicade) Rituximab (Rituxan) Tocilizumab (Actemra), a newer biological DMARD used to treat rheumatoid arthritis that has not responded to other treatment Medicines to relieve symptoms Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen. NSAIDs are used to
				control pain and may help reduce inflammation. They don't control the disease
				or stop it from getting worse. NSAIDs may be combined with DMARDs. Corticosteroids such as prednisone or Medrol. These medicines are used to reduce disease
				activity and joint inflammation. But using only corticosteroids for an extended time is not considered the best treatment. Corticosteroids are
				often used to control symptoms and flares of joint inflammation until DMARDs
				reach their full effectiveness. Analgesics (pain relievers). These don't reduce
				inflammation but may help with pain control. They include: Nonprescription acetaminophen . Acetaminophen with codeine (such as
					 Tylenol with codeine). Acetaminophen with hydrocodone (such as
					 Vicodin). Tramadol. What to Think About Some DMARDs can take up to 6
			 months to work. In some people, a certain DMARD may not work at all. So a
			 different DMARD will be used. If you're taking DMARDs, it's a good idea to have a rheumatologist manage your care. Many DMARDs have serious side effects. You will need regular blood and urine tests to check the drug's effects on
			 blood-producing cells (bone marrow), the kidneys, and the liver. Other medicines are being studied. One example is tacrolimus (Prograf), an inhibitor of a
				protein called calcineurin. In one 6-month trial, people who had rheumatoid arthritis that had not responded to DMARDs had fewer symptoms. 9 Surgery Surgical treatment for
		  rheumatoid arthritis is used to relieve severe pain
		  and improve function of severely deformed joints that don't respond to
		  medication and physical therapy. Total joint replacement
		  (arthroplasty) can be done for many different joints in the body. Its success
		  varies depending on which joint is replaced. Surgery Choices Surgeries considered for people
			 who have severe rheumatoid arthritis include: Finger and hand surgeries , to correct
				joint problems in the hand. Arthroscopy ,
				which removes debris or inflamed tissue in a joint through a small lighted
				instrument. Synovectomy , to
				remove inflamed joint tissue. Arthroplasty ,
				to replace part or all of a joint in the hip or knee. Cervical spinal fusion , to treat severe neck pain and
				nerve problems. Resection of metatarsal heads , to
				remove deformed bone in the feet. What to Think About Joint surgery often restores
			 near-normal movement in a person who has osteoarthritis in just one or two joints. But this is
			 not the case in people affected by rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis usually affects multiple
				joints, particularly smaller joints, such as finger joints, which are needed
				for many daily activities. Surgical treatment may not be an option for all of
				the affected joints. Joint surgery or replacement can relieve
				disabling pain and restore enough motion to allow you to do your daily
				activities. But it will seldom restore the joint to normal. The
				most successful procedures for this disease are carpal tunnel release
				(in the wrist), resection of the metatarsal heads (in the foot), and total hip
				and total knee joint replacements. Before you decide to have surgery, consult with an orthopedic surgeon who is experienced in joint surgery
			 for rheumatoid arthritis.
			 For more information, see: Questions to Consider About Joint Surgery . Other Treatment Other types of treatment that may
		  help you control some of the symptoms of
		  rheumatoid arthritis   include: Physical therapy , to improve joint
			 function. Physical therapy includes exercise, hot and cold therapy, and
			 massage. Occupational therapy . This helps you learn how to maintain
			 movement in the joints while carrying out the activities of daily living. Assistive devices such as household aids or mobility aids. For
			 more information and a catalog, contact the Arthritis Foundation, listed in the
			 Other Places to Get Help section of this topic. Behavioral modification techniques to reduce pain and
			 stress. These include biofeedback and relaxation therapy, such as breathing exercises and muscle relaxation . Counseling . It can
			 help you cope with long-term pain and disability. Complementary and alternative medicine therapies Although not proven in scientific studies, complementary therapies are
			 used by many people to relieve symptoms and
			 improve their quality of life. These therapies include: Acupuncture . This treatment is used to
				relieve pain and treat certain health conditions. It is done by inserting very
				thin needles into the skin at specific points on the body. Massage . It can help relieve stress and reduce
				pain. But don't massage swollen or painful joints. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS).
				This therapy uses electrical current delivered through electrodes to
				the skin for pain relief. Herbs and dietary supplements. If you decide to
				use herbs or dietary supplements, be sure to tell your doctor. For some people, herbs (such as ginger or
					 evening primrose) or essential fatty acids (such as fish oil) may provide some
					 relief of symptoms. 10 The dietary supplement glucosamine is sometimes used to
					 try to relieve joint pain. But studies don't show that it is effective for rheumatoid arthritis. 11 Other Places To Get Help Organizations American College of Rheumatology 2200 Lake Boulevard NE Atlanta, GA  30319 Phone: (404) 633-3777 Fax: (404) 633-1870 Web Address: www.rheumatology.org The American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and the
		  Association of Rheumatology Health Professionals (ARHP, a division of ACR) are
		  professional organizations of rheumatologists and associated health
		  professionals who are dedicated to healing, preventing disability from, and
		  curing the many types of arthritis and related disabling and sometimes fatal
		  disorders of the joints, muscles, and bones. Members of the ACR are physicians;
		  members of the ARHP include research scientists, nurses, physical and
		  occupational therapists, psychologists, and social workers. Both the ACR and
		  the ARHP provide professional education for their members. The ACR
		  website offers patient information fact sheets about rheumatic diseases, about
		  medicines used to treat rheumatic diseases, and about care
		  professionals. Arthritis Foundation P.O. Box 7669 Atlanta, GA  30309 Phone: 1-800-283-7800 Web Address: www.arthritis.org The Arthritis Foundation provides grants to help find a
		  cure, prevention methods, and better treatment options for arthritis. It also
		  provides a large number of community-based services nationwide to make living
		  with arthritis easier, including self-help courses; water- and land-based
		  exercise classes; support groups; home study groups; instructional videotapes;
		  public forums; free educational brochures and booklets; the national, bimonthly
		  consumer magazine Arthritis Today ; and continuing
		  education courses and publications for health professionals. National Center for Complementary and Alternative
		Medicine (NCCAM) Clearinghouse P.O. Box 7923 Gaithersburg, MD  20898 Phone: 1-888-644-6226 (301) 519-3153 for international calls Fax: 1-866-464-3616 toll-free TDD: 1-866-464-3615 toll-free Email: info@nccam.nih.gov Web Address: www.nccam.nih.gov/health/clearinghouse (or
		www.nccaminfo.org/livehelp/ for live help online) The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
		  (NCCAM) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) explores complementary and
		  alternative healing practices in the context of rigorous science, trains
		  complementary and alternative medicine researchers, and gives out authoritative
		  information. Send all requests for information and questions about NCCAM to the
		  NCCAM Clearinghouse. National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and
		Skin Diseases (NIAMS), National Institutes of Health 1 AMS Circle Bethesda, MD  20892-3675 Phone: 1-877-22-NIAMS (1-877-226-4267) toll-free (301) 495-4484 Fax: (301) 718-6366 TDD: (301) 565-2966 Email: niamsinfo@mail.nih.gov Web Address: www.niams.nih.gov The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal
		  and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) is a governmental institute that serves the public
		  and health professionals by providing information, locating other information
		  sources, and participating in a national federal database of health
		  information. NIAMS supports research into the causes, treatment, and prevention
		  of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases and supports the training of
		  scientists to carry out this research. The NIAMS Web site provides
		  health information referrals to the NIAMS Clearinghouse, which has information
		  packages about diseases. Related Information Dealing With Medicine Side Effects and Interactions Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Work Closely With Your Doctor References Citations O'Dell JR (2005). Rheumatoid arthritis: The clinical
	 picture. In WJ Koopman, LW Moreland, eds., Arthritis and Allied Conditions: A Textbook of Rheumatology , 15th ed., vol. 1, pp. 1165–1194.
	 Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. Harris ED Jr, Firestein GS (2009). Clinical features of rheumatoid arthritis. In GS Firestein et al., eds., Kelley’s Textbook of Rheumatology , 8th ed., vol. 2, pp. 1087–1118. Philadelphia: Saunders Elsevier. Kwoh CK, et al. (2002). Guidelines for the management
	 of rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis and Rheumatism ,
	 46(2): 328–346. Häkkinsen A (2004). Effectiveness and safety of
	 strength training in rheumatoid arthritis. Current Opinion in Rheumatology , 16(2): 132–137. De Jong Z, et al. (2003). Is a long-term,
	 high-intensity exercise program effective and safe in patients with rheumatoid
	 arthritis? Arthritis and Rheumatism , 48(9):
	 2415–2424. Genovese MC (2009). Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In GS Firestein et al., eds., Kelley’s Textbook of Rheumatology , 8th ed., vol. 2, pp. 1119–1143. Philadelphia: Saunders Elsevier. Nicola PJ, et al. (2005). The risk of congestive heart
	 failure in rheumatoid arthritis: A population-based study over 46 years. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 52(2): 412–420. Verstappen SMM, et al. (2003). Five-year follow-up of
	 rheumatoid arthritis patients after early treatment with disease-modifying
	 antirheumatic drugs versus treatment according to the pyramid approach in the
	 first year. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 48(7):
	 1797–1807. Yocum DE, et al. (2003). Efficacy and safety of
	 tacrolimus in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 48(12): 3328–3337. Murray MT, Pizzorno JE Jr (2006). Rheumatoid
	 arthritis. In JE Pizzorno, MT Murray, eds., Textbook of Natural Medicine , 3rd ed., vol. 2, pp. 2089–2108. St. Louis:
	 Churchill Livingstone Elsevier. Firestein GS (2007). Rheumatoid arthritis. In DC Dale,
	 DD Federman, eds., ACP Medicine , section 15, chap. 2.
	 New York: WebMD. Other Works Consulted Saag KG, et al. (2008). American College of
	 Rheumatology 2008 recommendations for the use of nonbiologic and biologic
	 disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs in rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 59(6): 762–784. Steultjens EEMJ, et al. (2009). Occupational therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (1). Credits By Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer Stanford M. Shoor, MD - Rheumatology Last Revised April 14, 2011 Top of Page Next Section: Health Tools Previous Section: Overview Top of Page Next Section: Frequently Asked Questions Previous Section: Health Tools Top of Page Next Section: Cause Previous Section: Frequently Asked Questions Top of Page Next Section: Symptoms Previous Section: Cause Top of Page Next Section: What Happens Previous Section: Symptoms Top of Page Next Section: What Increases Your Risk Previous Section: What Happens Top of Page Next Section: When to Call a Doctor Previous Section: What Increases Your Risk Top of Page Next Section: Exams and Tests Previous Section: When to Call a Doctor Top of Page Next Section: Treatment Overview Previous Section: Exams and Tests Top of Page Next Section: Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis Previous Section: Treatment Overview Top of Page Next Section: Medications Previous Section: Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis Top of Page Next Section: Surgery Previous Section: Medications Top of Page Next Section: Other Treatment Previous Section: Surgery Top of Page Next Section: Other Places To Get Help Previous Section: Other Treatment Top of Page Next Section: Related Information Previous Section: Other Places To Get Help Top of Page Next Section: References Previous Section: Related Information Top of Page Next Section: Credits Previous Section: References Top of Page Last Revised: April 14, 2011 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine & Stanford M. Shoor, MD - Rheumatology O'Dell JR (2005). Rheumatoid arthritis: The clinical
	 picture. In WJ Koopman, LW Moreland, eds., Arthritis and Allied Conditions: A Textbook of Rheumatology , 15th ed., vol. 1, pp. 1165–1194.
	 Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. Harris ED Jr, Firestein GS (2009). Clinical features of rheumatoid arthritis. In GS Firestein et al., eds., Kelley’s Textbook of Rheumatology , 8th ed., vol. 2, pp. 1087–1118. Philadelphia: Saunders Elsevier. Kwoh CK, et al. (2002). Guidelines for the management
	 of rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis and Rheumatism ,
	 46(2): 328–346. Häkkinsen A (2004). Effectiveness and safety of
	 strength training in rheumatoid arthritis. Current Opinion in Rheumatology , 16(2): 132–137. De Jong Z, et al. (2003). Is a long-term,
	 high-intensity exercise program effective and safe in patients with rheumatoid
	 arthritis? Arthritis and Rheumatism , 48(9):
	 2415–2424. Genovese MC (2009). Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In GS Firestein et al., eds., Kelley’s Textbook of Rheumatology , 8th ed., vol. 2, pp. 1119–1143. Philadelphia: Saunders Elsevier. Nicola PJ, et al. (2005). The risk of congestive heart
	 failure in rheumatoid arthritis: A population-based study over 46 years. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 52(2): 412–420. Verstappen SMM, et al. (2003). Five-year follow-up of
	 rheumatoid arthritis patients after early treatment with disease-modifying
	 antirheumatic drugs versus treatment according to the pyramid approach in the
	 first year. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 48(7):
	 1797–1807. Yocum DE, et al. (2003). Efficacy and safety of
	 tacrolimus in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis and Rheumatism , 48(12): 3328–3337. Murray MT, Pizzorno JE Jr (2006). Rheumatoid
	 arthritis. In JE Pizzorno, MT Murray, eds., Textbook of Natural Medicine , 3rd ed., vol. 2, pp. 2089–2108. St. Louis:
	 Churchill Livingstone Elsevier. Firestein GS (2007). Rheumatoid arthritis. In DC Dale,
	 DD Federman, eds., ACP Medicine , section 15, chap. 2.
	 New York: WebMD. Print Help This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2011 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the