Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 02 Jun 2010 12:01:08 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "431735494b2cb1:d7123"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2012 18:49:14 GMT
Connection: close

Hemorrhoids, Anal Fistulas Y Hemorrhoids, Anal Fistulas Hemorrhoids Fistulas Anal fissures What causes an anal fissure? Classification of fissures Symptoms of an anal fissure Making a 
				diagnosis Can anal fissures ever lead to colon 
				cancer? Anal fissures vs anal fistulas Non-surgical treatment Alternative Treatments Surgery Risks of 
				surgery Return of the fissure Hemorrhoids Hemorrhoids, or piles, is a sometimes painful mass of distended 
				(swollen) veins in the lining of the anus and rectum, resulting 
				from the formation of varicose veins around the anus. Internal 
				hemorrhoids occur at the junction of the anus and rectum and are 
				covered with mucous membrane. External hemorrhoids occur just 
				outside the anus and are covered with skin. On occasion an 
				internal hemorrhoid may prolapse, or protrude, to the outside, 
				cutting off the blood supply. A number of treatments are 
				available for internal hemorrhoids. External hemorrhoids may be 
				treated with local care to relieve pain; if they recur or remain 
				symptomatic they may be surgically removed. Hemorrhoids can occur at any age, often without apparent cause.  
				A typical scenario for developing hemorrhoids might be someone 
				with a little chronic constipation, who sits for several minutes 
				or more for each bowel movement, often reading a magazine or 
				newspaper at the same time.  Repeated straining at stool, over 
				time, causes the encircling dilated veins to gradually stretch 
				and get pushed downward through the anus, ahead of the stool.  
				You might notice that you must wipe several times afterward, and 
				you may be aware of some "extra tissue" protruding through the 
				anus, or note a little trace of blood on the toilet paper.  
				Contributing factors may include severe constipation or 
				diarrhea, pregnancy, liver disorders, rectal tumors, and the 
				repeated long term use of laxatives. Hemorrhoids can cause 
				itching and burning and may bleed during a bowel movement. Hemorrhoids do not cause cancer nor do they become cancerous. 
				But any rectal bleeding may be a sign of cancer of the colon or 
				rectum and should be checked by a physician Temporary relief from hemorrhoids may be obtained by applying a 
				cold compress directly to the affected area until the pain 
				subsides. This is most easily done if the patient lies face-down 
				and another person applies the compress. Tepid water baths may 
				also help. A person should eat a high-roughage diet to ensure 
				regular defecation of large, soft stools. Ointments, creams, and 
				suppositories containing corticosteroids may also ease the 
				symptoms.  In addition to these measures, avoiding constipation 
				is certainly key.  It is important to have an adequate amount of 
				fiber in your daily diet.  So what do we mean by that?  Well, 
				the short answer is to have some sort of bran cereal for 
				breakfast, like All Bran (probably the highest fiber content of 
				the options available), or Raisin Bran, then be sure to include 
				salads and lots of fresh fruits and vegetables in your other 
				meals.  You should also drink 6-8 glasses of water or juices per 
				day.  Lots of fiber without enough fluids can make the situation 
				worse, similar to the difference between a dry and a wet 
				sponge.  The fiber (sponge) can absorb lots of liquid, but 
				without the liquid, the stool will be hard to pass (like a dry 
				sponge). There's more detailed information about fiber in the next few 
				paragraphs.  If you want to skip this detail, click here. Return to top of page Dietary fiber or roughage is defined as a  carbohydrate complex 
				which comes from plants, and it does not get digested in the 
				stomach and small intestine. Since it remains in this undigested 
				state all the way to the colon (large intestine), the remaining 
				fiber absorbs water into the stool, creating bulk and speeds the 
				process by which waste is eliminated from the body. There are two types of fiber: Insoluble fiber doesn’t dissolve in water, and it helps move food through 
					the digestive tract. Whole wheat flour, cereals, pastas, 
					seeds, nuts, green beans, cauliflower, tomatoes, flax seeds, 
					and potato skins contain insoluble fiber. Soluble fiber dissolves in water and forms a gelatinous-like material 
					which lowers blood cholesterol and glucose levels. You can 
					find soluble fiber in oats, barley, carrots, broccoli, 
					artichokes, fruits, and berries. Although 
				dietary fiber has little nutritional value, it has great health 
				benefits. Everyone should be aware how it can help you lead 
				a healthier life : Relieves and prevents constipation. Fiber shortens the transit time of material in the digestive 
					system by absorbing water into the stool, which increases 
					bulk and softens the waste helping it speed along. 
					Constipation and the straining to have a bowel movement are 
					often the causes of hemorrhoids. Reduces cholesterol levels. Low-density lipoproteins (LDL), the bad cholesterol, are 
					reduced by soluble fiber. This lowers your risk of 
					developing cardiovascular diseases associated with heart 
					attacks and strokes by preventing the build-up of plaque in 
					the arteries. Reduces the risk of digestive conditions. Hemorrhoids, Irritable Bowel Syndrome and Diverticulosis  (a 
					disease where small pouches develop in the intestinal walls) 
					are less likely to occur, because with fiber the intestinal 
					contractions do not have to work as hard to move the stool 
					along. It is interesting to note that diverticulosis is 
					virtually unheard of in African countries, presumable 
					because of the high fiber content of their diet. Regulates blood sugar levels. The absorption of sugar is slowed by soluble fiber which 
					helps prevent type 2 diabetes from forming, and it helps 
					maintain more stable blood sugar levels in those that have 
					diabetes. Colorectal cancers may be reduced. Studies are inconclusive but some have shown a reduced 
					number of colorectal cancers in people who eat a high-fiber 
					diet. A weight-loss aid. Fiber c reates a sense of fullness because high-fiber 
					food is chewed longer and creates more bulk in the stomach. 
					It curbs the tendency to overeat at mealtime, and usually 
					high-fiber food contains fewer calories. Recommended daily amounts of fiber needed by adults according to the National Academy of Sciences’ 
				Institute of Medicine: Age 50 and younger Age 51 and older Men 38 grams 30 grams Women 25 grams 21 grams Adding more dietary fiber to your meals is one of the nicest 
				things you can do for yourself. If you have hemorrhoids, fiber 
				can work to aid your digestive system in healing and eliminating 
				 them. Return to top of page All cases of rectal bleeding should be examined by a physician to rule out cancer of the 
				colon and rectum. If the diagnosis is hemorrhoids, the remedies 
				mentioned above may solve the problem. However, persistent 
				hemorrhoids may need to be removed, using one of several 
				methods. The hemorrhoid may be frozen off during cryosurgery; 
				hardened, using a sclerosing agent; tied off, using a rubber 
				band at the base of the hemorrhoid; or removed surgically (hemorrhoidectomy).  
				At DeKalb Surgical, the preferred method for most symptomatic  
				hemorrhoids is the rubber band technique, which can be performed 
				as an office procedure. Hemorrhoids are typically classified according to the amount of 
				prolapse (sticking out) that occurs.  Those hemorrhoids which do 
				not prolapse, or which spontaneously reduce (go back inside the 
				anus) can usually be treated in the office setting.  At 
                DeKalb 
				Surgical Associates, rubber band ligation is most often used.  
				These small bands are placed over the hemorrhoid tissue, causing 
				them to slowly strangulate and fall off.  This treatment can be 
				repeated if necessary.  Though some patients experience moderate 
				pain, in most cases, the procedure is tolerated with little 
				discomfort. If you have been diagnosed with symptomatic hemorrhoids and 
                would like to be seen by Dr. Kennedy for possible band ligation 
                treatment, call our office at 404-508-4320 to schedule an 
                appointment.  If you have other questions you may email him 
                directly at drkennedy@dekalbsurgical.com . Return to top of page Fistulas A 
				fistula is an abnormal channel from a hollow body cavity to the 
				surface (for example, from the rectum to the skin) or from one 
				cavity to another (for example, from the vagina to the bladder). 
				A fistula may be congenital (bladder to navel), the result of a 
				penetrating wound (skin to lung), or formed from an ulcer or an 
				abscess (appendix abscess to vagina, or tooth socket to sinus). The repeated filling of an abscess or a wound by the fluid 
				contents of some body cavity prevents healing and encourages the 
				formation of a fistula. An anal fistula, for example, begins 
				with inflammation of the mucous lining of the rectum. The area 
				becomes an abscess as it is constantly reinfected by feces; 
				eventually a fistula breaks through to the skin near the anus. 
				The usual treatment is an operation to open the fistula channel 
				completely and drain any abscess so it does not recur. Return to top of page Anal fissures Anal fissures are small tears in the mucus 
				lining of the anal canal.  They can occur as a result of passage 
				of a large hard stool. Fissures can be quite painful, 
				particularly with bowel movements.  Often, some bright red blood 
				will be noticed on the stool, or on the toilet paper after 
				wiping. If you have ever had a painful papercut on your finger, you can 
				understand all about anal fissures. The anus is the ring-like 
				sphincter or valve at the end of your rectum. It relaxes and 
				tightens at your will to allow a bowel movement when convenient. 
				An anal fissure is a small tear in the rim of the anus - just 
				like a tiny papercut. One problem with a papercut is that every time you use your 
				hands, you tend to break open the small wound, which delays 
				healing, and causes more pain. The same holds true with an anal 
				fissure. Every time you have a bowel movement, the anus is 
				stretched and the fissure can possibly be reopened causing more 
				symptoms. This makes some anal fissures chronic and difficult to 
				heal. This problem is quite common and may cause considerable 
				misery. Fissures will often heal on their own, if 
				constipation is avoided.  There are some simple measures that 
				can be used to hasten the healing, including the use of stool 
				softeners, and ointments such as Preparation H.  Prescription 
				medications may also be used, including a variety of analgesics, 
				and steroid preparations.  A more recent treatment option is the 
				use of nitroglycerin ointment, the same type of medication used 
				for patients with angina (heart pain).  This medication relaxes 
				the smooth muscle lining underneath the torn mucus layer of the 
				anus.  By treating the spasm of this smooth muscle, the fissure 
				will heal in about 85% of cases.  However, many patients have 
				headaches as a result of using the nitroglycerin (because it 
				relaxes smooth muscle cells in the arteries to the brain as 
				well). If the fissure does not heal, a simple 
				outpatient surgical technique can be used.  This procedure is 
				called lateral internal sphincterotomy. The anal canal is anesthetized by injection with a small 
				needle.  A small incision is made in the anal canal, and the 
				ring of muscle under the fissure is cut. This relieves the 
				muscle spasm, which in turn allows the fissure to heal.  
				Patients often experience immediate improvement in their 
				symptoms, though in some cases, the improvement is slower.  
				Potential side effects or complications include temporary 
				incontinence, bleeding, or persistent pain.  Incontinence as a 
				complication is unusual, but there may be temporary difficulty 
				in distinguishing between gas, liquid stool, or solid stool in 
				the rectum. Return to top of page What causes an anal 
				fissure ? The anal opening is only so big. To have a bowel movement the 
				anal sphincter relaxes and open up as much as it can, but the 
				stool must be still be soft enough to squeeze through the 
				opening. If the stool is dry and hard, the anal sphincter is 
				forced to open even wider than normal. This difficult passage 
				can cause a tear in the rim of the anal opening, resulting in a 
				fissure. Other causes of a fissure include severe diarrhea, 
				inflammatory bowel disease, and sexually related trauma. Return to top of page Classification of fissures Fissures are graded as superficial or deep. A superficial 
				fissure does not extend full thickness through the skin; a deep 
				fissure results in exposing underlying muscle fiber. Fissures 
				are also graded as acute or chronic. An acute fissure is less 
				than thirty days duration; a chronic fissure is present for 
				greater than thirty days. Return to top of page Symptoms of an anal 
				fissure Once the skin is torn, each subsequent bowel movement can be 
				painful. Just like a papercut, it doesn't take a very big tear 
				to cause considerable misery. The pain is often quite severe. 
				Patients often complain of a stinging pain during bowel 
				movements. The pain often lasts for hours and gradually 
				subsides. This occurs with each bowel movement. Many times there 
				is also some bleeding on the toilet paper, which is usually of 
				small quantity and generally bright red in color. The symptoms 
				of an anal fissure are commonly mistaken for hemorrhoids, but 
				hemorrhoids generally do not cause pain with bowel movements. In 
				chronic cases, there may be the development of a localized 
				swelling called a sentinel pile. This is commonly mistaken for a 
				hemorrhoid. Return to top of page Making a diagnosis An accurate diagnosis is the first step in treatment. Your 
				doctor can perform special tests to be certain about the cause 
				of your symptoms. This will include an examination of the anus 
				and anal canal in the office. The tear of the skin is usually 
				easy to visualize, although sometimes the pain precludes an 
				adequate exam without anesthesia. Occasionally a small viewing 
				instrument, called an anoscope, is used in the evaluation. To 
				rule out other more serious possibilities, a flexible 
				sigmoidoscopy or full colonoscopy examination may be 
				recommended. Return to top of page Can anal 
				fissures ever lead to colon cancer ? No! A fissure or a hemorrhoid can never turn into colon cancer. 
				But, it is important to be sure that any rectal symptoms are 
				thoroughly evaluated since conditions other than fissure can 
				cause similar symptoms such as bleeding. Return to top of page Anal fissures vs anal 
				fistulas These two conditions are often confused. A fissure is a tear or 
				crack in the anal lining. A fistula is a totally different 
				problem but often occurs in the same anal area. A fistula is 
				more like a tunnel between the rectum and other body parts - 
				such as between the rectum and the vagina ( a recto-vaginal 
				fistula), or between the anal canal and the nearby skin. Return to top of page Non-surgical treatment If you could just not use your anus for a few weeks, the fissure 
				would probably heal faster, but, of course, you have to 
				eat....and eliminate. Fortunately, over half of fissures heal 
				either by themselves or with non-surgical treatment in a few 
				weeks or months. Superficial fissures rarely require surgery; 
				most are able to be treated with topical medications. 
				Non-surgical treatments may include: Apply 1/2 percent hydrocortisone cream to 
									the anal area to help relieve irritation. Apply a numbing ointment to the anal area to 
									help relieve pain Take oral pain-killers such as acetaminophen 
									(Tylenol) for additional relief. Avoid 
									constipating narcotic painkillers like 
									codeine, Darvon, hydrocodone, or oxycodone. A stool softener (Colace, Surfak) may help 
									prevent constipation until the fissure 
									heals. Soak the anal area in plain warm water for 
									20 minutes, several times a day to reduce 
									pain (Sitz bath) Eat high-fiber foods (fruits, vegetables, 
									bran, whole-wheat grains) Take a high-fiber supplement daily such as 
									Metamucil, Citrucel, Fibercon. Drink 6 to 8 glasses (soda-can sized) of 
									water to keep the stool from being too 
									"dry", Do not strain too hard during bowel 
									movements, and don't sit on the commode for 
									more than a minute or two. Avoid anal sex. Call your doctor if you have any severe bleeding or fever, or if 
				the fissure becomes more painful or shows no improvement after 3 
				days of treatment. Return to top of page Alternative Treatments Two new forms of treatment have recently been reported. One is 
				the use of Nitroglycerine cream to the anal area to relax the 
				anal muscle spasm. Though frequently effective, many patients 
				experience headaches when using this ointment.  The other new 
				treatment is the use of Botox (botulism toxin) injections to 
				weaken the anal sphincter and allow the fissure to heal.  
				Experience with this novel technique is limited. Return to top of page Surgery If a fissure continues to cause pain and bleeding and does not 
				respond to conservative medical therapy, it is considered 
				chronic and surgery may be required. Chronic fissures heal only 
				10% of the time without surgery. This may involve an operation 
				that divides one of the circular anal muscles (internal lateral 
				sphincterotomy). Surgery can usually be performed without an 
				overnight hospital stay. The pain often disappears a few days 
				after surgery, though full healing requires one to two months 
				Most patients are back to normal activity within a week or two. Risks of surgery There is a risk of fecal incontinence (loss of the ability to 
				control bowel movements) with this procedure, but the incidence 
				of this is quite low. Infection and complications incident to 
				anesthesia are also possible, but again the risks are low. If 
				you have any questions about this, you should discuss them with 
				your doctor. Return of the fissure More than 90% of patients who require surgery for this problem 
				have no further trouble from fissures as long as they take 
				measures to prevent constipation and straining with bowel 
				movements. Return to top of page If you have been diagnosed with one of the above 
                conditions and would like to be seen by one of our surgeons, 
                call our office at 404-508-4320 to schedule an appointment. DeKalb Surgical Associates 
		©2009 DeKalb Surgical Associates 2665 North Decatur Road Suite 730 Decatur, Georgia 30033 (a suburb of Atlanta) Phone: (404) 508