<http://eutiremedy.info/?p=883>; rel=shortlink
Set-Cookie: mfw_site=http%3A%2F%2Feutiremedy.info; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Can I Have Sex With Bacterial Vaginosis UTI Remedy Skip to content Home About Privacy Policy Site Map Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedies ← What Are The Causes Of A Urinary Tract Infection What Can Cause A Urinary Tract Infection → Can I Have Sex With Bacterial Vaginosis Posted on July 20, 2011 by Amy Oral sex has became a norm in the past 10 years and today many couples, married and non married practicing it. While oral sex would make the relationship more intimate, it poses a hidden potential problem in which a lot of couples do not know about. Oral sex is the physical contact between the areas around the mouth with the vaginal, crotch or anus areas. This is also where the problem starts where a lot of bacteria end up at all the wrong places. Bacteria which are found in the mouth end up at the vaginal areas and vice versa. I am going to discuss about a high potential problem oral sex could cause to a woman. It is called bacterial vaginosis. Oral sex can disrupt the delicately balanced bacteria population found in and around the vaginal areas. Any disruption to the bacteria population could lead to having fishy odors and more vaginal discharge compared to usual. In some cases, it would also cause itching and burning sensations around the vaginal areas and it could last for days, or even months if not properly treated. So how is oral sex linked to bacterial vaginosis? 1. There are a lot of good and bad bacteria around our mouth areas mainly due to our daily food intake and the additives that come with it. However, there are certain foods which are too acidic with it's additives that could potentially change the pH level of the vaginal flora through oral sex. Eventually, this leads to the woman being infected with bacterial vaginosis from her partner's mouth. 2. Besides the mouth, bacteria can also be found within our throat. When we have oral sex continuously for a long period, these bacteria and microorganism could eventually be transferred to the vaginal areas and then leaving the woman vulnerable to contracting bacterial vaginosis in the future. 3. There are also cases where a woman is being infected by BV because of her partner's gum health. An unhealthy gum is the favorite breeding place for many unwanted bacteria and if these bacteria are transferred to the vagina, it could also lead to BV. 4. There are different bacteria internally and externally between the vagina and anus. When a man performs oral sex on a woman, there is a high risk of him unknowingly transferring the bacteria from the anus to the vagina via his tongue because there two sensitive areas are very near to each other. 5. There are many occurrences that sexual activities happened after a couple consumed alcohols. Alcohols contain natural yeasts and other additives which are not so friendly to the vaginal flora. If the mouth is not cleaned thoroughly after an alcohol session, it could lead to the woman being infected with BV if oral sex is performed. There are a lot other ways how a woman could get BV from oral sex besides the five mentioned above. I'm not discouraging women from practicing oral sex with their partners because it might lead to BV. Oral sex can still be practiced, but with proper precautions. The important thing you need to know is the complications that oral sex might bring to you if it is not practiced the correct way. It is very important for both the man and woman to practice proper and healthy oral hygiene if they are to indulge in oral sex. Always wash yourself cleanly before any oral sex activities. Related posts: Can Oral Sex Cause Yeast Infection Can You Have Sex While You Have A Yeast Infection This entry was posted in UTI and tagged can i have sex with bacterial vaginosis . Bookmark the permalink . ← What Are The Causes Of A Urinary Tract Infection What Can Cause A Urinary Tract Infection → 47 Responses to Can I Have Sex With Bacterial Vaginosis Expecting my 1st- Feb 21st, 2011  :) says: July 20, 2011 at 1:40 am can i have sex while taking medicine to treat my bacterial vaginosis? I have the Flagyl pills to treat my Bacterial vaginosis. Im supposed to take them 2x a day for 10 days. Is it safe to have sex, i only have sex with one person, and he does ejaculate inside of me. Alice Williams says: July 22, 2011 at 6:13 pm While there is no danger in having sex while taking medication to treat your infection, intercourse sometimes irritates the infected area and slows down the healing process. If possible, wait to have sexual intercourse until you are completely done taking your medication. Benkool says: July 20, 2011 at 3:12 am I am a bloke and I had sex with a girl that got bacterial vaginosis in her vaginal. I noticed this during sex? During intercourse with a girl, I noticed that she got bacterial vaginosis in her Vaginal. Ever since I have been worried. What are the implication of this to me? Although I used a condom, but I still want to know if this bacterial vaginosis can make me ill. getriel1 says: July 21, 2011 at 7:32 pm First off how do you know? are you a dr? Only a dr can say if a woman has an upset balance of vaginal bacteria Bacterial vaginosis is the most common type of vaginal infection. To learn more about other common types, see the topics Vaginal Yeast Infections and Trichomoniasis Bacterial vaginosis is a mild infection of the vagina caused by bacteria. Normally, there are a lot of “good” bacteria and some “bad” bacteria in the vagina. The good types help control the growth of the bad types. In women with bacterial vaginosis, the balance is upset. There are not enough good bacteria and too many bad bacteria. Bacterial vaginosis is usually a mild problem that goes away on its own in a few days. But it can lead to more serious problems, so it’s a good idea to see your doctor and get treatment. Experts are not sure what causes the bacteria in the vagina to get out of balance. But certain things make it more likely to happen. Your risk of getting bacterial vaginosis is higher if you: Have more than one sex partner. Have a female sex partner. Have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). Use an IUD for birth control. Douche. You may be able to avoid bacterial vaginosis if you limit your number of sex partners and don’t douche. Bacterial vaginosis is more common in women who are sexually active, but it is not something you catch from another person. If You were really worried I’d see a dr but since you wore a condom I doubt you have a problem. dr_renae12 says: July 20, 2011 at 4:09 am Is there any over the counter medicine i can take for bacterial vaginosis?Can you have sex with bv? Can you take any type of antibiotic to get rid of bv? What are some natural things I can do to get rid of the symptoms? I’m to scared to tell my mom about this bc its embarassing!!! I have way too much vaginal discharge. I’m still a virgin so I know its not a STD or yeast infection. someone HELP LINDA R says: July 21, 2011 at 2:18 am BV is a bacterial infection.  You need to take antibiotics prescribed by a doctor if you have BV.  BV is not an STD. You might have a yeast infection (also not an STD).  Since you don’t know what you have, you need to see a doctor to get a diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Bex says: July 20, 2011 at 4:40 am Why did I suddenly get bacterial vaginosis after being with my bf for over a year? We’ve been monogamously having sex for over a year, and it’s only now that I’ve contracted BV. I understand that men can be carriers without showing symptoms, but wouldn’t he have given it to me sooner? thetruth says: July 22, 2011 at 10:57 pm bv is not an std, u can get it even if  you have never had sex. its a bactierial infection that is caused by bacteria. pretty much its your body, find out what you can do 2 prevent it. for me i added yogurt to my diet, its the live active cultures that  help me balance out the bacteria levels in my body. not from cheating…. annonymous says: July 20, 2011 at 2:56 pm i was diagnosed with bv bacterial vaginosis how soon can me and my boyfriend have sex.? I was given the medicine clindesse and it says it is a one time dose and not to have sex when using this I used it at around 1 am yesterday how soon before I should have sex, is it safe for me try today around 2am today bellabell says: July 20, 2011 at 3:52 pm Keep getting bacterial vaginosis after sex! What can I do? OK here’s some background.  I have been having sex with only one partner for the past 2 years – yes unprotected.  I used to occasionally get bacterial infections (usually after going awhile without sex and then having it again) but now, it’s pretty much constant.  I take flagyl and it clears up the infection right away, then I have sex again and it’s back immediately.  It never used to happen this often with him but now it’s like I can’t shake it.  It’s SO FRUSTRATING.  I have been tested several times for STD’s, all negative.  I feel like I need a lifetime supply of Flagyl!  Is it possible I’m allergic to my partner’s sperm?  What can I do about this BESIDES using condoms?  I’m so tired of these infections they are making me nuts.  Please help. That is what I thought. He must be passing it back to me.  I don’t think it has anything to do with his hygiene – he’s a clean guy.  I probably originally got it and passed it to him and now we’re going back and forth.  So I should send him to a dr I guess.  Yeah, that’ll be easy. lol A. Lynn says: July 21, 2011 at 1:25 am Sounds like he’s passing it back to you. As a man, he can carry it and not experience symptoms. And when you are treated for it, he is not. You need to have a serious conversation with him about his hygiene. Suzan says: July 20, 2011 at 4:17 pm I'm an existentialist.  I do not believe in the Cartesian Cogito  of “I think therefore I am.” or I identify as therefore I am.  I am more a believer in Sartre/de Beauvoir.  “I act therefore I am the product of my actions.” I am queer not because I identify as queer but because I have sex with a member of the same sex.  I was transsexual not because I identified as transsexual but because I had a sex change operation, now I am post-transsexual. BlackDahlia says: July 20, 2011 at 4:36 pm Will taking metronidazol (for bacterial vaginosis) cause me to develop a yeast infection? I recently started having sex, which I think prompted my first ever problem down there. I went to the gyno for the first time and I was diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis. My doctor gave me the antibiotic metronidazol to clear it up. However, the more I look into it, it sounds like taking the antibiotic can cause a yeast infection. Is this just other types of antibiotics? Or am I likely to get a yeast infection now? Kir S says: July 21, 2011 at 9:50 am Taking an antibiotic can cause a yeast infection because it can sometimes kill the good bacteria with the bad.  It’s not something certain that is going to happen.  I’ve taken many antibiotics over the years and have never ended up with a yeast infection because of them.  Just take the antibiotic your doc gave you for the infection, and if you develop a yeast infection, call the doctor back.  You need to kill the bad bacteria, and then you can worry about getting your body back into balance through medication for yeast infections. wombat says: July 20, 2011 at 6:14 pm What sexual acts can I do while having bacterial vaginosis? I’m not sure if I have it, but hypothetically… I’m guessing since it’s in my vagina I can give oral sex? And what’s the worst that can happen to my boyfriend if I have sex/receive oral? And with fingering, what would be the greatest setback? Could the irritation get worse, or is the smell alone a reason to stay away from that? Ha Gumdrop Girl says: July 22, 2011 at 9:34 pm You can give oral sex. But you have an INFECTION in your vagina. You want your bf to put his mouth on or fingers in an INFECTION??? EWW!!! GROSS!!! Not only could fingering and cunnilingus aggravate your infection, it’s just downright NASTY. Get the meds and give yourself time to heal. No penetration, no sexual contact and no tampons until your BV is gone. motherofone says: July 20, 2011 at 6:33 pm bacterial vaginosis but no odor or itch but have had pain.? I finally had gotten health insurance again and I had the mirena put in feb of 2010 and have had pain with sex since then but lost health insurance. Whenever it hit my cervix esp in beggining of intercourse it hurts bad. Well finally I got my insurance back and then I got sharp pains feeling like my uterus was being stabbed 2 times when I got my period and I went to my ob they checked me out and no cycts but my culture came back that I have vaginosis and I have no odor itch or burning but I get cramps at weird times in my cycle…. I am so worried cuz I read up bout how it can lead to a hysterectomy and I really do want another child. And it sounds like I have had this since I got the mirena. Oh yeah so I had my child via csection dec 17 2009 then had mirena put in feb 28th I think of 2010 Creamy80977 says: July 20, 2011 at 8:15 pm I am rather embarassed about this.. I have bacterial vaginosis and wanted to know ways I can get rid of it? Besides taking pills how can i get rid of this odor and evrything and not be asheamed to have sex with a bad odor..please help..I am flying to another country to see my boyfriend in 2 months and want to get rid of it EveS says: July 22, 2011 at 10:00 pm Hi, I suffered with bv on and off for two years so i understand where you are coming from, you can be cured and quick too. The cause of BV is not fully understood. BV is associated with an imbalance in the bacteria that are normally found in a woman’s vagina. The vagina normally contains mostly “good” bacteria, and fewer “harmful” bacteria. BV develops when there is an increase in harmful bacteria. Not much is known about how women get BV. There are many unanswered questions about the role that harmful bacteria play in causing BV. Any woman can get BV. However, some activities or behaviors can upset the normal balance of bacteria in the vagina and put women at increased risk including: Improper Hygiene especially after a bowel movement. Multiple Sexual Partners, although BV is not considered to be a STD. Using douches or vaginal deodorants have also been known to contribute to BV. An imbalance of hormones is said to be a factor also. Cigarette smoking. Use of an intrauterine device (IUD). Stress. Menopause. Sickness. An un-healthy diet. If any of these apply to you i would omit them from your daily routine and you should see an improvement. I found alot of this info on this site http://cureforbv.com it was really helpful for me. hope this helps Bee says: July 20, 2011 at 8:56 pm What can happen if you dont treat a Bacterial Vaginosis? My vagina has been smelling bad now for a while, i havent visisted my doctor due to the fact that i have no health insurance and well its pretty expensive. Ive had BV before but i would like to know in case i have this again, is it bad if i havent gotten any treatment for it?? Im really worried please help. Also could my husband be a blame for this? I noticed his penus smelled really bad and after having sex with him ive been having this problem. Nyssa ♥ says: July 21, 2011 at 9:23 pm It sounds like your husband and yourself are sharing BV or something similar. BV is often confused with yeast infection, and I believe that BV can lead to complications – the only one I know of is a possibility of pelvic inflammatory disease. Apparently it should clear up on its own in 2-3 days, and complications are rare. You can do a few things, in case it is a case of yeast infection rather than BV. - Eat lots of yogurt with active bacterial culture (it’s GOOD bacteria, and will fight yeast infection) - Keep clean with regular EXTERNAL washing with water and a non-irritating soap. Try a vaginal wash. Your husband should do this as well, vaginal wash can also be used on male genitals. (DO NOT douche) - Sleep in cotton underwear and pj’s – avoid wearing underwear at all, if you can. You and your husband should avoid sex for a few days, until it is cleared up.  You could possibly keep passing the infection back and forth between yourselves. If things don’t go back to normal in a few days, you will just have to bite the bullet, and go to the doctor’s. Char says: July 21, 2011 at 2:46 am Can I get a bacterial infection in my mouth from giving oral to my partner right after having regular sex? I treated myself for what I thought was a yeast infection and after a number of days I had sex with my husband and then oral sex immediately following. In the days to follow I discovered that the infection wasn’t gone so I went to the doc. and he discovered I had a bacterial infection and not a yeast infection. He put me on 500mg of Metronidazol to treat it. After my first day of taking it, my mouth has a terrible taste! Could it be that I could have an oral bacterial infection? Or could the taste be from the meds they put me on? Is it possible to get a bacterial infection in my mouth from giving oral sex after regular sex when I have bacterial vaginosis? Q says: July 22, 2011 at 8:22 pm Antibiotics often cause you to get a metalic taste in your mouth, so that’s what it is. It’s unlikely you’d get a bacterial infection in your mouth in the way you have described because the conditions in your urinary tract and the conditions in your mouth are quite different, with your mouth having lots of ways to kill that bacteria. You CAN get a bacterial infection in your urinary tract if you have vaginal intercourse after having anal intercourse, though, transferring bacteria from your gut into your vagina. csassybunny143 says: July 21, 2011 at 6:04 am I Have Bacterial Vaginosis and I’m haveing sex with my partner can me having BV turn into him having…..? an STD or any type of STD? and if he got infected what is it that he could get from me? slipstream says: July 21, 2011 at 11:09 am http://www.cdc.gov/std/BV/STDFact-Bacterial-Vaginosis.htm Darealest1 says: July 21, 2011 at 1:54 pm I keep getting either a Urinary Tract Infection or Bacterial Vaginosis it seems every time I have sex? Here some background. Im on the pill & my boyfriend & I have unprotected sex. We have it frequently. It seems like almost every time we have sex I get one  of these infections. I went to 2 different OBGYN’s & they both looked at me as if I was crazy when I tell them it from sex. I dont drink beer or alcohol, coffee or sodas. I drink plenty of water. When my boyfriend & I have gone through periods of no sex I DO NOT get these infections. I get them so often Ive had to self medicate with Cipro & zithromax. (I had over 15 last year alone and going on my 3rd this year so far) I read somewhere sperm can imbalance the vaginal tract. What can I do? Am I supposed to stop having sex? Ive also done the urinating after sex bit as well. Im so frustrated! By the way, I dont use tampons or douche and I had an IUD but removed it about a month ago because I heared it may be a factor but Im still getting them. I just started the pill immediatley after removing the IUD a month ago. AND YES, WE’VE BOTH BEEN CHECKED ITS NOT AN STD. EVERYTIME I GO TO THE GYN FOR THIS THEY TEST ME & IM NEGATIVE> HE HAS AS WELL. bflogal77 says: July 21, 2011 at 6:10 pm I can just bet you are. One thing though…you may be causing your own infections. Antibiotics are prescribed for infections…to wipe out the bacteria that is causing infections. You have normal bacteria in your vaginal canal that should be there….by taking Cipro and Zithromax (both heavy duty drugs) you may be killing off the normal bacteria too. Don’t do that anymore. Have someone check the PH of your vagina and also the PH of your boyfriend’s semen…they may be incompatible. Have you tried using a condom? That also might help. If you don’t get satifactory answers from the doctors you have seen, conmsult an OB/GYN. Rox says: July 21, 2011 at 11:53 pm How long to wait to have sex after being treated for bacterial vaginosis w/oral metronidazole + yeast question? I am currently being treated for BV with metronidazole pills and am to complete treatment this Wednesday night (after my last pill). I have purchased a bottle of acidophilus tablets to begin taking immediately after I finish the metronidazole pills to prevent a yeast infection. I have had BV before and was prescribed the gel, and immediately following that treatment, I got a yeast infection and had to use Monistat for another 7 days, which was pretty awful. My questions are: 1. How long do I have to wait to have sex after I complete the metronidazole pill treatment on Wednesday night without the danger of passing the bacteria that caused BV to my boyfriend and back to me? Is this even a risk? Would I be able to have sex the same night (Wednesday)? The next night? I will have not had sex in three weeks already by then. 2. Since this is my second time getting BV (and since I got a yeast infection after my last treatment), I am wondering how I can prevent a yeast infection once my current treatment is complete. Did I do the right thing by purchasing the bottle of probiotics? Is there anything else I can do? Thank you! nik says: July 22, 2011 at 9:49 am you need too keep clean, naturally… especiall after sex also keep everything dry, after showering and wait atleast 7 days so your medicine can actually get through your system im no doctor, but that makes the most sence. winny says: July 22, 2011 at 12:24 am Dating a guy and engaged in sex now I think I have Bacterial Vaginosis? I’ve been dating a guy and we have sex often. I’ve only had one sex partner and we both were virgins and clean. The guy I am dating now, has had more than one partner but has been tested and is negative for any stds and such. I’m on birth control and he doesn’t use a condom – First time we had sex was fine but after a couple days I guess I began to smell something fishy and I was itchy in my vagina. I thought it might be a yeast infection but I knew it couldn’t be a yeast infection since usually I smell sweet not fishy. I waited a few days, and it cleared up – not itchy or smelling. However I had sex with him again.. and now it’s back to being slightly itchy and kind of fishy. I’m not sure what’s going on, could it be bacterial vaginosis? Or stress (because I have been stressed greatly since I have been dating him and have been dealing with family issues and school) I have read that people often get BV from having a new sex partner, what does that mean? If it is bacterial vaginosis is it serious and can it go away without treatment? Or is it necessary to get treatment? I also have never had a fishy smell from my vagina before until now – only sweet smells from yeast infections. and he doesn’t finish in me. Jim says: July 22, 2011 at 5:31 pm You might need to go to the doctor, but it does sound like bacterial vaginosis.  There are a few things you can do from home to get rid of it. I’ll leave a link to a blog that will explain what to do. hope this helps… Theo's mummy x says: July 22, 2011 at 4:36 am Reaccunt Bacterial Vaginosis – does constant sex make it worse? I met my current partner six months ago and was told that I had bacterial vaginosis. I had never had it before but wasnt too worried as I knew it wasnt an STI. However, within weeks of the first treatment I got it again. I took the treatment but now I have started to get the symptoms AGAIN (the fishy smell which is much worse during sex). I have just been retested and am due to get my results on Tuesday. Im so fed up with the whole thing. Iv heard that BV can occur after a change in sexual partner – which would explain why I got it in the first place – but why do I keep on getting it ? I try to be careful when I wash and only use  PH balanced soap, however me and my boyfriend have sex at least once a day. We also have sex when I am taking treatment for BV. Could this be delaying treatment or aggrivating the condition? Is it possible that he is getting some of the bacteria on his penis and then passing it back to me?Can men carry it at all? Does sex make it worse?Very frustrated lady! Invisible Pink  RN (Justice for Caylee) says: July 22, 2011 at 4:28 pm BV is the name of a condition in women where the normal balance of bacteria in the vagina is disrupted and replaced by an overgrowth of certain bacteria.  It is sometimes accompanied by discharge, odor, pain, itching, or burning. Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common vaginal infection in women of childbearing age.  In the United States, BV is common in pregnant women. The cause of BV is not fully understood. BV is associated with an imbalance in the bacteria that are normally found in a woman’s vagina. The vagina normally contains mostly “good” bacteria, and fewer “harmful” bacteria. BV develops when there is an increase in harmful bacteria. Not much is known about how women get BV. There are many unanswered questions about the role that harmful bacteria play in causing BV. Any woman can get BV. However, some activities or behaviors can upset the normal balance of bacteria in the vagina and put women at increased risk including: Having a new sex partner or multiple sex partners, Douching It is not clear what role sexual activity plays in the development of BV. Women do not get BV from toilet seats, bedding, swimming pools, or from touching objects around them. Women who have never had sexual intercourse may also be affected. Women with BV may have an abnormal vaginal discharge with an unpleasant odor. Some women report a strong fish-like odor, especially after intercourse. Discharge, if present, is usually white or gray; it can be thin. Women with BV may also have burning during urination or itching around the outside of the vagina, or both. However, most women with BV report no signs or symptoms at all. In most cases, BV causes no complications. But there are some serious risks from BV including: Having BV can increase a woman’s susceptibility to HIV infection if she is exposed to the HIV virus. Having BV increases the chances that an HIV-infected woman can pass HIV to her sex partner. Having BV has been associated with an increase in the development of an infection following surgical procedures such as a hysterectomy or an abortion. Having BV while pregnant may put a woman at increased risk for some complications of pregnancy, such as preterm delivery. BV can increase a woman’s susceptibility to other STDs, such as herpes simplex virus (HSV), chlamydia and gonorrhea. Pregnant women with BV more often have babies who are born premature or with low birth weight (low birth weight is less than 5.5 pounds). The bacteria that cause BV can sometimes infect the uterus (womb) and fallopian tubes (tubes that carry eggs from the ovaries to the uterus). This type of infection is called pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID can cause infertility or damage the fallopian tubes enough to increase the future risk of ectopic pregnancy and infertility. Ectopic pregnancy is a life-threatening condition in which a fertilized egg grows outside the uterus, usually in a fallopian tube which can rupture. A health care provider must examine the vagina for signs of BV and perform laboratory tests on a sample of vaginal fluid to look for bacteria associated with BV. Although BV will sometimes clear up without treatment, all women with symptoms of BV should be treated to avoid complications. Male partners generally do not need to be treated. However, BV may spread between female sex partners. Treatment is especially important for pregnant women. All pregnant women who have ever had a premature delivery or low birth weight baby should be considered for a BV examination, regardless of symptoms, and should be treated if they have BV. All pregnant women who have symptoms of BV should be checked and treated. Some physicians recommend that all women undergoing a hysterectomy or abortion be treated for BV prior to the procedure, regardless of symptoms, to reduce their risk of developing an infection. BV is treatable with antibiotics prescribed by a health care provider. Two different antibiotics are recommended as treatment for BV: metronidazole or clindamycin. Either can be used with non-pregnant or pregnant women, but the recommended dosages differ. Women with BV who are HIV-positive should receive the same treatment as those who are HIV-negative. BV can recur after treatment. BV is not completely understood by scientists, and the best ways to prevent it are unknown. However, it is known that BV is associated with having a new sex partner or having multiple sex partners. The following basic prevention steps can help reduce the risk of upsetting the natural balance of bacteria in the vagina and developing BV: Be abstinent. Limit the number of sex partners. Do not douche. Use all of the medicine prescribed for treatment of BV, even if the signs and symptoms go away. http://www.cdc.gov/std/BV/STDFact-Bacterial-Vaginosis.htm mariap says: July 22, 2011 at 5:09 am Chronic BV (bacterial vaginosis) and sex? I’ve been dealing with SUPPOSED chronic BV for almost 2 years. I’ve abstained from sex, but it’s starting to drive me (and my ever loving boyfriend) absolutely crazy. No medications have worked for me and they can’t get a definite diagnosis to boot. I have some sort of bacterial overgrowth, but nothing grows out or shows up on any kind of tests. I just have this profuse discharge that won’t go away and it sometimes smells sour. A few doctors insist it is BV, even if the tests keep coming back negative. I’m currently not being treated with anything because every doctor I’ve been to just doesn’t know what to do with me anymore, so I’m just trying to ride it out and hope it goes away on its own (if it ever will). Has anyone ever experienced a problem like this for so long, some sort of vaginal infection that won’t go away? I’d like to have sex again, but I’m so scared that it’ll hurt or make me bleed, or just be gross. I would obviously use protection. I’m just not sure what to do. Do you think it’d be ok to just go ahead and do it or should I continue waiting it out for God knows how long? Larkin L says: July 22, 2011 at 11:15 am What kind of discharge are you having?  Sour smell, might be your own musky scent. Have you tired *Taking Lots of acidophilus/probiotics or eat Unsweetened (plain) Yogurt *Avoid tight jeans and other tight pants *Wear cotton underwear during the day, NO thongs *Wear no underwear to bed *Put a tsp of apple cider vinegar in a 6-8 ounce glass of water and drink it 2-3 times a day. saylav says: July 22, 2011 at 5:18 am Can a male carry bacterial vaginosis or somehow cause it to reoccur in a woman? Last year my boyfriend and I were in an exclusive relationship and then broke up.  I thought I had a yeast infection after we were broken up and I was no longer sexually active because when we were together I developed a bladder infection and used antibiotics to treat it.  But come to find out it was BV–Bacterial Vaginosis.  I’ve read all of the info. on it and it doesn’t seem to be sexually transmitted.  The ironic part of all of this is that my ex-boyfriend and I got back together recently and I developed it again.  Is this a coincidence or what?  Is it because he is a new partner and it somehow offsets my normal bacterial count?  I’ve only developed it after having sex with him but know it could be related to other factors.  Hmmmm? X says: July 22, 2011 at 5:14 pm Not a coincidence at all. BV can be from many, many things. Here is what goes on in TONS of patients with your same question in a very gerneral nutshell-and I use the word bacti to describe any micro-organism: You have normal bacteria in your vagina that do (on top of many things) keep bad bacti out. When you run a course of antibiotics, especially the ones prescribed for BV, you kill almost everything. Now the real strong good bacti (that have been there for years) survive and make more good bacti. NOW the same partner who has been with even one other woman may carry some of her bacti on or in his penis (inside the glans  or head -if you look at it under a microscope-it is a great place for bacti to live) and he gives you 1 or 2. Now the new bacti fight it, you develop an immune response… and there you go-symptoms and signs of BV. THIS time when you take your course of ABX, eat 1 yogurt daily at least 3 hours after your abx. I hope this helps anonymous Chick says: July 22, 2011 at 5:56 am Can my boyfriend and I still have sex if i have bacterial vaginosis? People say it’s not sexually trasmittable, but everytime we have sex, he comes out with small red irritated bumps on his penis. they go away within 15 minutes after sex. I know it’s not anything like Herpes because I have Herpes, and that’s not what it is. It seems as if my vaginal secretions are irritating him. Is this normal since I have bacterial vaginosis? LindaB says: July 22, 2011 at 8:46 pm You have to go to the doc for BV. They give you like 2 pills and it gets rid of it. It doesn’t go away on it’s own. My bf got it twice from the same guy and that is what she had to do. She said it made her stink really bad down there. Get yourself some help. And you really should be wearing a condom w/ your man if you have herpes. Does he know you have either of your STD’s?? You're Right! says: July 22, 2011 at 9:12 am Can my girlfriend and I have sex while she has Bacterial Vaginosis? My girlfriend has BV but no health insurance.  She just got a new job and has to wait 90 days to get benefits at which time she says that she will see the doctor.  In the mean time can we have sex without additional health issues? I told her to get checked out now and I would pay for the doc but she doesn’t want to do that.  At first she didn’t want to have sex either, because of the smell, but I as time went on she wanted to have sex again.  Now I’m wondering if we are adding additional health risks to either one of us with sex. Thank you for your input. Flakis says: July 22, 2011 at 4:05 pm Can I still have sex if i have been diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis? I have a new boyfriend and have been diagnosed wtih bacterial vaginosis.  Can i still have sex, or would that not be a good idea.  I went to teh doctor and got treatment for it, so hopefully it goes away, but i was still wondering……….if i can. what is something that i can do to avoid my partner from noticing as much during intercourse? (he knows i have it) 546148 says: July 22, 2011 at 4:32 pm i get bacteriel vaginosis every time i have sex? i keep getting bacteriel vaginosis every time i have sex. i never used to get it with my ex partner of 5 years but i do with my new partner, we both have been tested and results are negetive they just say its bacterial vaginosis. i have been advised to use a condom but i woudnt want to use a condom evrytime i have sex for the rest of my life. does anybody else have this problem can anyone give me some advise? pleeeeaaase Dreamer 76 says: July 22, 2011 at 5:53 pm It is annoying especially when it keeps coming back. It can not happen with a certain partner but with someone else happen all the time. Unfortunately using a condom is probably the best way of preventing it coming back but other things can help prevent it as well. Don’t use scented bath/shower products in that area as that can irritate and cause the infection to come back. Drink lots of water to flush out your whole system regularly, water is the best prevention against many infections and diseases. Don’t wear underwear that causes any itchiness or irritation as that sets off the infection as well, especially tight underwear or clothing. It is annoying but if you just take extra steps like these you’ll find you can stop it coming back completely. Lindsay says: July 22, 2011 at 6:25 pm What causes bacterial vaginosis? Does anyone know anything about bacterial vaginosis (a vaginal infection)?  This is my second time being diagnosed with one and I was wondering if there was something that I was doing wrong or something that I can do to prevent infections in the future.  The only thing I read was that having new or multiple sexual partners can cause it but the first time I was diagnosed, I was single and not having sex with anyone at the time and this time I have been with the same person for over a year. five_on_it says: July 22, 2011 at 6:52 pm It could be that your vaginal ph is off. That could be caused by having a new sex partner to the type of soap you are using or even by something you are eating. It can also be caused by stress!! Did your dr. prescribe something. You should try this product called Rephresh, its sold over the counter and it helps balance vaginal ph. Also eat some yogurt and cut out sugary foods and drinks for a while. I have suffered with BV from time to time and these are some of the things that helped me. i know how unpleasent and icky it makes you feel. Get better soon Happy2help says: July 22, 2011 at 9:13 pm Please help me how do I get rid of bacterial vaginosis? Doctors help and prescriptions are not helping I need another way! Please help me! Im sick of it!! Also is bacterial vaginosis an STD? I read a out it to understand more and it is said that it is not because of the fact some people can get it if they have not even have sex before I was just wondering. Please help me with alternatives. Thanks Brian O says: July 22, 2011 at 10:09 pm It is NOT an STD. Here’s the scoop:  Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is essentially an overgrowth of normal vaginal bacteria.  Usually this is Gardnerella Vaginalis, which is supposed to be there, but not so much.  This generally occurs when the vaginal pH becomes too high….that is, more basic/less acidic. Decreasing the pH will help….you’ll have to read about this on your own I’m afraid, as this is not my specialty.  (Plus there is no consensus on which methods truly work to correct the pH, or even why the pH may be too high in the 1st place.  Would depend on too many factors for this forum.)  Some also advocate yogart with lactobacillus (a harmless bacterium, except to other bacteria), which is supposed to balance things out.  There is a lot of debate about whether this is actually the case or not. Ultimately, the best resolution is with antibiotics….Flagyl being the drug of choice.  Available only by prescription. Below are some of the most common symptoms of a urinary tract infection: Pain or a burning feeling during urination A feeling of urgency, or feeling the need to urinate frequently An altered appearance of the urine, either bloody (red) or cloudy (containing pus) Pain or pressure in the rectum (men) or in the area of the pubic bone (women) Passing only a tiny amount of urine even when the urge to urinate is strong Read through our library to find a solution that 