
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 07:30:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Amazing Births™,South Florida's leading provider of support for peaceful Conception, Pregnancy, birth ,Postpartum, Hypnobirthing, pregnancy Massage, prenatal yoga, Doulas Sample 2 Drop Down Menu Home about Services Classes & Workshops Event Calendar Resources Memberships & Packages Welcome Boutique About Us? Gratitude Videos Locations|directions Careers With Us Contact Us Birth Doulas Postpartum Doulas Antepartum & Bedrest Massage Therapy Prenatal Yoga Acupuncture Preconception & Fertility Homeopathy Spa Therapies/Skin Care Pricing Classes & Workshops Hypnobirthing Prenatal Yoga Breastfeeding 101 Natural baby care Prenatal Belly Dancing Local Resources Birth Centers & Homebirths ObGyn & CNMs (Hospital) Pediatricians Delray Doulas Birth Postpartum Antepartum & Bedrest Prenatal Therapy Massage Therapy Prenatal Yoga Acupuncture Additional Offerings Amazing Birth Videos Fertility Preconception & Fertility Hypnofertility Mayan Massage Acupuncture Naturopathic Consult Classes Classes & Workshops Hypnobirthing Event Calendar Register Online Resources Local Resources Birth Centers/ Homebirth ObGyn & CNMs Pediatricians Appointments Book a Class Book a Workshop Schedule appointments Contact Us Contact Us Our Locations Inquiries are always welcome. Please call us for questions or to make an appointment Delray Beach: Main (561) 865-5791 or (561) 247-5791 fax:(561) 404-8124 Careers with us Amazon.com Widgets The Treatment of Insomnia with Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture During Pregnancy Insomnia is a common problem  that affects almost everyone at some point. During pregnancy, some women fight  with the inability to fall asleep or stay asleep.  The obvious reasons would be heartburn  when lying down or having difficulty falling back asleep after waking to urinate.  Stress or emotional imbalance must always be considered.  The many physical and physiological changes  throughout pregnancy or the thoughts of upcoming labor and birth must always be  considered.  Some who have experienced  difficult sleeping prior to the pregnancy may also suffer from this imbalance  but there is no definite reason as to why this symptom persists.   Nonetheless, acupuncture is able to restore  the body’s natural sleep cycle. Chinese medicine views this imbalance during pregnancy as  for any individual experiencing these symptoms with the addition a few  considerations. There may be some underlying deficiencies of the liver, kidneys  and heart as these are the organs that produce blood and qi, as well as provide  for the growing fetus. During pregnancy, the body holds more heat than normal  and this heat may be too consuming and responsible for insomnia. The spleen’s  activity in making blood for the baby after birth may also be affected by its  tendency to be impaired with excess worry and pensiveness. Every organ is  related and injured by over indulging in specific emotions. Insomnia should be addressed as to prevent exhaustion. Women  should have a strong constitution and a rested mind when preparing for labor,  childbirth and post-partum recovery.  Acupuncture  treatment should be consistent for 2 weeks and then scheduled as needed.  In conjunction with the acupuncture  treatments, daily daytime exercise and evening relaxation is suggested. Women  are asked to create their own nightly routine incorporating meditation, music  or visualization. Insomnia night time homecare: Soak in a warm bath using essential oils: Scents       of lavender, sandalwood and nutmeg help you shrug off the ill-effects of       stress. Lavender is probably the most useful of them all for relaxation.       It is a sedative and a tonic. It helps you to relax while easing aches and       pains. Patchouli       oil helps eliminate anxiety and lifts the mood. Ylang-ylang       is euphoric, regulator, sedative, and tonic. Use it in moderation as it       can cause headaches in some people. Complete tasks that you find the most therapeutic. Some       women love to cook or prepare meals for the next day. Lose       yourself in a great book. Write       about your day in a journal. Create a play list of relaxing music and find some time away  from distraction. Use techniques, helpful CD’s or books, that teach  visualization and hypnotherapy. Whatever you choose to create your nightly routine, be sure  to be consistent and generous with your time. During the daytime hours, light physical activities such as  pre-natal yoga, Tai qi or qi gong are recommended.  As little as 15 minutes a day can make a  recognizable difference in sleep patterns.   Women who show great concern and worry toward the upcoming birth should  be directed to complete tasks, like organizing the house and baby’s room,  scheduling her work absence and prepping the family, will allow the final weeks  of pregnancy to be more relaxed. And, of course, allow acupuncture to be a tool  during preparations for labor and childbirth. 20 S Swinton Avenue, Delray Beach, FL 33444 Serving Palm Beach, Broward and Dade Counties info@amazingbirths.com (561) 865-5791 | (561) 247-5791 For healing The Whole Woman, visit The Red Tent™ @ our sister site www.redtentwellness.com Copyright all rights reserv