
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 13:05:32 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.londonhypnotherapypartnership.co.uk/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Get a Healthier Body with Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy London | The London Hypnotherapy Partnership The London Hypnotherapy Partnership - specialists in Advanced Hypnosis for Weight Loss, Stop Smoking, Fertility, Anxiety, Personal Development & More in London, W1. Book a free 15-minute consultation for any of our treatments Call us now on 020 7467 8355 Home About Us Advanced Hypnotherapy What is Hypnosis? Not All Hypnotherapy is Equal FAQs Treatments Anxiety, Panic & Phobias Over 500 Recognised Phobias Confidence & Self Esteem Fertility Hypnobirthing Insomnia & Poor Sleep Medical Hypnosis Personal Development Public Speaking Relationship Therapy Sexual Problems Stop Smoking Proven Success in Research Over 20 Years Success Smoking – Habit or Addiction? Smoking – The Facts What is in a Cigarette? Start Repairing the Damage Now How Much Could You Save? Speed Reading Stress Management Weight Loss Why 90% of Diets Don’t Work Are You An Emotional Eater? The 7 Signs of Emotional Eating Food, Mood & Chemical Weight Gain Gastric Band Hypnosis And More Corporate Workshops & Events Lose Weight for Life Create Your Perfect Birth Self Hypnosis Course Testimonials News Contact Free Consultation Request a Call Back How to Find Us Home > Treatments > Stop Smoking > Start Repairing the Damage Now How Quickly Does Your Body Repair Damage Caused By Cigarettes? A healthier body as soon as you stop smoking One of the great things about quitting smoking is that you experience significant and immediate benefits. Within just a few hours, you start feeling healthier, younger,  more attractive, more energetic and fitter. And, of course, your breath feels fresher and you smell better. Start to repair the damage now What happens to your body when you stop smoking? And how quickly does it take to repair the damage from smoking? As soon as you stop smoking, your body has the chance return to normal and it gets on with repairing the internal damage straight away. Once you stop poisoning your body with cigarettes, the repair process is reassuringly quick… 20 minutes : Pulse rate and blood pressure return to normal. Circulation improves so you look and feel healthier 8 hours : Oxygen levels in the blood return to normal. Your chances of heart attack start to fall 24 hours : Carbon monoxide is eliminated. Lungs start to clear mucus and other smoking debris 48 hours : All nicotine is eliminated from your body. Your taste and smell are greatly improved 72 hours : Bronchial tubes relax, making breathing easier and increasing your energy levels 2-12 months: Circulation improves throughout your body and skin improves 3-9 months: Coughing. wheezing and breathing problems get better as your lung function is increased by up to 10% 1 year: Risk of a heart attack drops to half that of a smoker 10 years: Lung cancer risk falls to half that of a smoker 15 years: Risk of heart attack falls to same as someone who has never smoked. Adapted from Quit, The new Quit guide to stopping smoking. So you want to quit? (London: QUIT 2007) Become a healthier, satisfied non-smoker with advanced stop smoking hypnotherapy You can significantly reduce your chances of becoming seriously ill through smoking damage. The sooner you can stop smoking, the quicker you start to repair the damage of smoking and start feeling healthier. If you are serious about stopping smoking, and want the fastest and most comfortable way to quit, advanced stop smoking hypnotherapy could be the solution you’ve been looking for. Using advanced hypnotherapy techniques, the part in your subconscious mind where the desire to smoke is stored can be accessed, and changed so that the satisfaction you now get from smoking is channelled in a more positive, healthier and more beneficial way.  With the correct techniques, expertly applied, most clients are able to quit within just one hour of very concentrated therapy. Book your stop smoking hypnotherapy treatment today Committed to quitting smoking and want to free yourself from the dangers associated with continuing to smoke? Find out more about how our advanced stop smoking hypnotherapy programme could help you. Contact Katie Glen or Jenny O’Kelly on 020 7467 8355 today and find out more or to book your stop smoking hypnotherapy treatment. Stop Smoking Proven Success in Research Over 20 Years Success Smoking – Habit or Addiction? Smoking – The Facts What is in a Cigarette? Start Repairing the Damage Now How Much Could You Save? Treatments Anxiety, Panic & Phobias Confidence & Self Esteem Fertility Hypnobirthing Insomnia & Poor Sleep Medical Hypnosis Personal Development Public Speaking Relationship Therapy Sexual Problems Stop Smoking Speed Reading Stress Management Weight Loss Gastric Band Hypnosis And More Call NOW for a free 15-minute telephone consultation Find out how we can help you achieve the results you're after. " Hypnosis is a wonderful supplement or alternative to conventional childbirth as it allows both mother and your baby to relax and enjoy birth " — advancehypnosis Pages Home About Us Advanced Hypnotherapy Treatments Corporate Workshops & Events Testimonials News Contact The Latest Why Do You Keep Going for Mr or Miss Wrong? The rule of attraction makes understanding why some people seem to have […] Contact Us Call us today for more information on how we can help you fix your particular issue on 020 7467 8355. The London Hypnotherapy Partnership 10 Harley Street London W1G 9PF Terms Copyright © 2012 The London Hypnotherapy Partnership. All rights rese