
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 21:33:42 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lower Back Pain In Golfers - Back Pain Articles - ArticleDoctor.com Article Doctor - Health and Fitness Articles Home Submit Article Members Login Editorial Guidelines FAQs Contact Us Home > Back Pain > Lower Back Pain In Golfers Printable Version Expert Author Juliana Breckinridge Writing articles about weight loss / health is one of my biggest hobbies. Health is a really important aspect on real life to succeed with our dreams. Read More Rate this Article: 1 2 3 4 5 Related Articles Back Pain In Early Pregnancy Back Pain Muscle Spasms Back Pain Related Problems Back Pain Relief Equipment Back Problems - Back Pain And Being Overweight 5 Most Common Mistakes Of Doing Seo A Guide To Marble Counter Tops Abdominal Exercise Back Pain Accidents At Asda - With So Many Staff And Customers Accidents Are Difficult To Prevent Accidents At Tesco - With So Many Staff And Customers Accidents Are Difficult To Prevent Lower Back Pain In Golfers Lower Back pain is among the most unbearable injuries in all over the world today. Golfers are especially prone to this disorder. There is no magic bean for mechanical lower back pain or pain in Golfers. There are a variety of options for care for the lower back pain: Chiropractic, Acupuncture, Massage, Physical Therapy, pain killers and muscle relaxants. Whatever the choice may be the healthcare provider cannot help the sufferer nearly as much as they can help themselves. Any treatment the sufferers do really need to be additive to what they do themselves. While it is true that there are golfers who started having back pains and related lower back problems long before they set foot on the course, there is clear evidence that golf does cause back pain, especially to those people who do not exercise and condition their bodies for the game. One reason is that most of the lower back pains are irritated by playing the golf for long periods. So the golfers do actually not have to continue to suffer with lower back pain in silence as simple golf specific exercises can permanently cure a golf back pain. There are several powerful, but simple golf exercise has helped most of the golfers to gain more endurance to play golf the whole day without experiencing the usual nagging lower back problems that are extremely common on the course. This lower back pain exercise of the golfers also does an excellent job in adding endurance and strength to the muscles and usually makes such a tremendous difference in the strength that golfers have to try it to believe and experience the impact for them selves. The lower back pain exercise is done by lying flat on the floor on the stomach with the hands at the sides. Golfers then need to raise their chest and upper body as well as arms and legs as high as they can. They need to do this so that their stomach supports the weight of their entire body. They should hold the position and go for a count of 10. Doing this simple exercise for 2 sets daily can completely eliminate the low back pain for good. Keeping the body golf fit by getting involved in a good golf specific exercise program can keep any golfer free from golf lower back pain. Golfer's back exercise is a key part of any golf-specific exercise routine if people want to eliminate back pain long-term. The golfers must need to improve both strength and flexibility to cure and eliminate their lower back pain. A closer look at the golf swing will show clearly that this game heavily depends on and indeed leans on the back. Actually an ideal golf swing is really all about using the spine as an axis to allow the correct swing plane and posture and spine is at the core and center of the golf swing. The facts of the matter are that a golfer with a lower back problem will always face an uphill and maybe impossible task when it comes to improving on their ability. The lower back will always come in the way of any efforts at improvement. This is the situation where golfer back exercise actually comes in. The exercises can be extremely useful in helping solve this nagging lower back problem amongst the many golfers who suffer from this problem which can be both very painful and frustrating. Juliana Breckinridge 09/01/2009, 6:59 AM 0 Comments Latest Articles Within This Category - Cc Holdings: Offshore Company Formation - Neck Injuries From Work – Second Only To Back Injuries And Often Afflict Office Workers - When Can A Client Make A Claim Against An Accident Solicitor? - Marsha Kent – Importance Of  Drtv - Accidents Caused By Ice – Typical Injuries And Who Is To Blame - Work Related Injury Compensation - When And How To Make A Claim - Compensation For Shoulder Injuries – Why Shoulder Accidents Are Common At Work And From Heavy Falls - Compensation For Work Related Lower Back Pain Is Available – How Can You Tell If Work Is To Blame? - Compensation For Slipped Discs – Lifting At Work Can Lead To Slipped Discs In A Worker's Back - Accidents At Tesco - With So Many Staff And Customers Accidents Are Difficult To Prevent Copyright © 