
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 03:58:03 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hemorrhoids By printing and/or reading this article, you agree that you accept all terms and conditions of use, as specified online. Hemorrhoids They aren't something that's fun to talk about but it's important that you are aware of them, since half the population will get hemorrhoids by the time they are 50, according to the National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse (NDDIC). Yes, half - they are that common. What are hemorrhoids They've been called the varicose veins (Read about " Varicose Veins ") of the anus and the rectum. They are blood veins that are swollen. They can be inside the anus (internal) or outside (external). When they are inside they tend not to be painful but they will bleed. External ones can be painful and itchy. There are also internal ones that protrude from the anus; those are called prolapsed. Who gets hemorrhoids Anyone can get hemorrhoids. The exact cause is unknown, but the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons (ASCRS) says the following contribute: aging constipation (Read about " Constipation ") diarrhea (Read about " Diarrhea ") pregnancy (Read about " Healthy Pregnancy ") heredity (Read about " Family Health History ") overuse of laxatives straining during bowel movements spending long periods of time on the toilet (like reading) The American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) says that being very overweight (Read about " Obesity ") or standing or lifting too much can make hemorrhoids worse. Symptoms Some sort of bleeding is usually one of the first signs of hemorrhoids, but if you're noticing blood, you should not make any assumptions. Bleeding could also be a sign of other diseases such as colorectal cancer, (Read about " Gastrointestinal Bleeding " " Colorectal Cancer ") so it's imperative that you see a doctor if you experience rectal bleeding. Others signs of hemorrhoids, according to ASCR: protrusion from the anus during a bowel movement itching in the area pain lumps that are sensitive Diagnosis can be made by a doctor during a physical exam. Other medical conditions, such as fissures, fistulae, abscesses or just irritation of the anus can have some of the same symptoms but are treated differently. Treatment Hemorrhoids aren't very serious and symptoms often go away on their own. If they are being aggravated by constipation, AAFP recommends increasing the amount of fiber in your diet. (Read about " Fiber and Health ") Some other ideas from NDDIC are: Warm tub or sitz baths a few times a day in plain warm water for about 10 minutes each Ice packs to help reduce the swelling Hemorrhoidal creams or suppositories for a limited period of time Some external hemorrhoids result from a hard blood clot. Your doctor may advise having that removed surgically. It is usually done on an outpatient basis with local anesthesia. A rubber band treatment is often used to treat internal ones. The band is wrapped around the hemorrhoid and the blood supply cut off. Other surgery is sometimes required in severe cases. Prevention Since a major cause of hemorrhoids is constipation and the resulting straining during bowel movements that occurs, it's important to try to stay regular. AAFP offers these suggestions: increase your fiber intake, fresh fruit, leafy vegetables and whole grains are good sources drink at least 8 glasses of water a day regular exercise avoid laxatives do not delay using the bathroom when you feel the need Hemorrhoids aren't something that people enjoy talking about but they should take comfort in the fact that they are not in the minority. Your doctor discusses the issue all the time with people and can help you get relief. Also, what you think is just a hemorrhoid could be something much more serious. Delaying discussing it could be dangerous. Related Information: Digestive System Cancer Check-ups Irritable Bowel Syndrome Healthy Pregnancy Avoid Back Pain Fighting Weight Gain All Concept Communications material is provided for information only and is neither advice nor a substitute for proper medical care. Consult a qualified healthcare professional who understands your particular history for individual concerns. © Concept Communications Media Group LLC Online health topics reviewed/modified in 2012 | Terms of Use/Privacy Policy By printing and/or reading this article, you agree that you 