
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 05:30:38 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Saaz DS Azulfidine Cholesterol Drugs, Prescriptions and Overseas Pharmacy Meds Cholesterol Drugs, Prescriptions and Overseas Pharmacy Meds Atorvastatin (Lipitor) Crestor (Rosuvastatin) Lopid (Gemfibrozil) Mevacor (Lovastatin) Niacin (Nicotinic acid) Pravachol (Pravastatin) Tricor (Fenofibrate) Zetia (Ezetimibe) Zocor (Simcard) Allergy Anti Bacterial Anti Convulsants Anti Depressants Anti Fungal Anti Narcoleptic Anti Viral Antibiotics Arthritis Asthma Birth Control Blood Pressure Cancer Cardiovascular Cholesterol Diabetes Diuretics Eye Drops Gastrointestinal Hair Care Herbal & Diet Supplements Men's Health Migraines Muscle Relaxers Nausea & Vomiting Other Pain Medicine Pet Herbal Remedies Prescription 
              Drugs 1 Prescription Drugs 2 Prescription Drugs 3 Prescription Drugs 4 Prescription Drugs 5 Prescription Drugs 6 Prescription Drugs 7 Prescription Drugs 8 Prescription 
              Drugs 9 Prescription 
              Drugs 10 Prescription 
              Drugs 11 Prescription 
              Drugs 12 Prescription 
              Drugs 13 Prescription 
              Drugs 14 Prescription 
              Drugs 15 Prescription 
              Drugs 16 Prescription 
              Drugs 17 Respiratory Skin Care Stop Smoking Thyroid Weight Loss Women's Health Cholesterol Drugs Alphabetical Index Categories Saaz DS Azulfidine Cholesterol Drugs, Prescriptions and Overseas Pharmacy Meds » Prescription Drugs 14 » Saaz DS Azulfidine Sulfasalazine is used to treat bowel inflammation  diarrhea (stool frequency)  rectal bleeding  and abdominal pain in patients with ulcerative colitis  a condition in which the bowel is inflamed. Sulfasalazine delayed-release (Azulfidine EN-tabs) is also used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults and children whose disease has not responded well to other medications. Sulfasalazine is in a class of medications called anti-inflammatory drugs. It works by reducing inflammation (swelling) inside the body. Buy Saaz DS Azulfidine and other Prescription Drugs 14 products online 
              at Medstore. Buy Online at Medstore - Click Here! About Saaz DS Azulfidine: Product Type: Prescription Drugs 14 Saaz DS (Azulfidine  Generic Sulfasalazine) Saaz DS (Azulfidine  Generic Sulfasalazine) Azulfidine  Generic Sulfasalazine 1gm 
              Azulfidine  Generic Sulfasalazine Saaz DS View more Prescription Drugs 14 Previous Product Next Product Cholesterol Drugs, Prescriptions and Overseas Pharmacy Meds:
Atorvastatin (Lipitor) Atorvastatin belongs to the group of medicines called 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors. It works by blocking an enzyme that is needed by the body to make cholesterol thereby reducing the amount of cholesterol in the blood. Buy Atorvastatin (Lipitor) and other Cholesterol products online at Medstore. About Atorvastatin (Lipitor): Product Type: Cholesterol Brand name: Atorvastatin Generic name: Lipitor What is the most important information I should know about Atorvastatin? • Rare cases of muscle problems and liver problems have been associated with the use of Atorvastatin and other similar medicines. Contact your doctor immediately if you experience unexplained muscle pain tenderness or weakness especially if accompanied by a fever or flulike symptoms or yellowing of the skin or eyes abdominal pain unexplained fatigue dark colored urine or pale colored stools. These may be early symptoms of muscle or liver problems. • Do not take Atorvastatin without first talking to your doctor if you have liver disease. • Alcohol and Atorvastatin can both be damaging to the liver. Alcohol should be used only in moderation. Discuss the use of alcohol with your doctor so that the potential for liver problems can be determined. • Do not take Atorvastatin if you are pregnant could become pregnant during treatment or if you are breast-feeding a baby. What is Atorvastatin? • Atorvastatin is an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor. Atorvastatin blocks the production of cholesterol (a type of fat) in the body. • Atorvastatin is used to reduce the amounts of LDL (bad) cholesterol total cholesterol triglycerides (another type of fat) and apolipoprotein B (a protein needed to make cholesterol) in your blood. Atorvastatin is also used to increase the level of HDL (good) cholesterol in your blood. These actions are important in reducing the risk of hardening of the arteries which can lead to heart attacks stroke and peripheral vascular disease. • Atorvastatin may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking Atorvastatin? • Do not take Atorvastatin without first talking to your doctor if you have liver disease. • Before taking Atorvastatin tell your doctor if you drink alcoholic beverages have a chronic muscular disease require major surgery or have a blood disorder. • You may not be able to take Atorvastatin or you may require a dosage adjustment or special monitoring during treatment if you have any of the conditions listed above. • Atorvastatin is in the FDA pregnancy category X. This means that Atorvastatin is known to cause birth defects if it is taken during pregnancy. Do not take Atorvastatin if you are pregnant or could become pregnant during treatment. • It is not known whether Atorvastatin passes into breast milk. Do not take this medication without first talking to your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. How should I take Atorvastatin? • Take Atorvastatin exactly as directed by your doctor. If you do not understand these directions ask your pharmacist nurse or doctor to explain them to you. • Take each dose with a full glass of water. • Atorvastatin can be taken with or without food. • Atorvastatin is usually taken once a day. Try to take your dose at the same time each day. Follow your doctor's instructions. • Your doctor may want to monitor your liver function with blood tests before starting treatment with Atorvastatin at twelve weeks after both the start of your treatment and any increase in dose and periodically (every 6 months) thereafter. Depending on the results of these tests your doctor can determine how much monitoring you will require. • Grapefruit and grapefruit juice may interact with Atorvastatin. The interaction could lead to potentially dangerous effects. Discuss the use of grapefruit and grapefruit juice with your doctor. Do not increase or decrease the amount of grapefruit products in your diet without first talking to your doctor. • Eat a low-fat low-cholesterol diet. To realize beneficial effects from Atorvastatin avoid fatty high-cholesterol foods. • It is important to take Atorvastatin regularly to get the most benefit. • Do not stop taking Atorvastatin without first talking to your doctor. Atorvastatin may need to be taken on a long-term basis for the treatment of high cholesterol. • Your doctor may want you to have blood tests or other medical evaluations during treatment with Atorvastatin to monitor progress and side effects. • Store Atorvastatin at room temperature away from moisture and heat. What happens if I miss a dose? • Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. However if it is almost time for the next dose skip the missed dose and take only the next regularly scheduled dose. Do not take a double dose of this medication. What happens if I overdose? • Seek emergency medical attention if an overdose is suspected. • The symptoms of an Atorvastatin overdose are not known. What should I avoid while taking Atorvastatin? • Alcohol and Atorvastatin can both be damaging to the liver. Alcohol should be used only in moderation. Discuss the use of alcohol with your doctor so that the potential for liver problems can be determined. • Grapefruit and grapefruit juice may interact with Atorvastatin. The interaction could lead to potentially dangerous effects. Discuss the use of grapefruit and grapefruit juice with your doctor. Do not increase or decrease the amount of grapefruit products in your diet without first talking to your doctor. What are the possible side effects of Atorvastatin? • Rare cases of muscle problems and liver problems have been associated with the use of Atorvastatin and other similar medicines. Contact your doctor immediately if you experience unexplained muscle pain tenderness or weakness especially if accompanied by a fever or flulike symptoms or yellowing of the skin or eyes abdominal pain unexplained fatigue dark colored urine or pale colored stools. These may be early symptoms of muscle or liver problems. • If you experience any of the following serious side effects stop taking Atorvastatin and seek emergency medical attention or contact your doctor immediately: an allergic reaction (difficulty breathing; closing of the throat; swelling of the lips tongue or face; or hives); decreased urine or rust-colored urine; or blurred vision. • Other less serious side effects may be more likely to occur. Continue to take Atorvastatin and talk to your doctor if you experience headache; upset stomach or flatulence; or a rash. • Side effects other than those listed here may also occur. Talk to your doctor about any side effect that seems unusual or that is especially bothersome. What other drugs will affect Atorvastatin? • Do not take Atorvastatin without first talking to your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines: cyclosporine (Sandimmune Neoral); gemfibrozil (Lopid) clofibrate (Atromid-S) or fenofibrate (Tricor); niacin (Nicolar Nicobid Slo-Niacin others); erythromycin (E-Mycin E.E.S. Ery-Tab others) or clarithromycin (Biaxin); cholestyramine (Questran) or colestipol (Colestid); hormonal birth control (pills patches or implants); or an antifungal medication such as itraconazole (Sporanox) fluconazole (Diflucan) or ketoconazole (Nizoral). • You may not be able to take Atorvastatin or you may require a dosage adjustment or special monitoring during treatment if you are taking any of the medicines listed above. • Drugs other than those listed here may also interact with Atorvastatin. Talk to your doctor and pharmacist before taking any prescription or over-the-counter medicines including vitamins minerals and herbal products.  Generic Atorvastatin (Lipitor) Atropic Rovator Trovatin Cardyl Sotis Torvast Tozalip Xavator 10mg 120 tabs 10mg 180 tabs 20mg 60 tabs 10mg 60 tabs 40mg 240 tabs 10mg 240 tabs 20mg 90 tabs 20mg 120 tabs 40mg 30 tabs 10mg 480 tabs 40mg 120 tabs 20mg 240 tabs 40mg 60 tabs 20mg 30 tabs 40mg 90 tabs Lipitor Atorvastatin Cholesterol Drugs, Prescriptions and Overseas Pharmacy Meds Products : A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 0-9 | Categories | Map | © Copyright 2011. Pet Meds online no prescription Trave