
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 11:19:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.4.0RC2-dev
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

Reversible vs. Irreversible Dementia Causes - www.dementiaguide.com - DementiaGuide.com Home > Community &gt Posts Reversible Dementia Causes vs Irreversible Dementia Causes Posted on October 24, 2008 by DementiaGuide Reversible vs. Irreversible Dementia Causes Dementia stems from a variety of causes, some of which are treatable and others that are not. Treatments for reversible dementia causes are intended to slow the progress of the dementia, and in some cases, may be able to reverse some symptoms. If the underlying cause of dementia is irreversible, doctors will treat the symptoms of the condition with the hopes of making life as easy as possible for the individual. Here are a few examples of different causes of dementia: Reversible Dementia Causes Head Injury This happens when an outside force hits the skull and causes damage to the brain. head injuries are often the result of an auto accident or a fall, and any subsequent decline in cognition is categorized as dementia. This dementia varies in nature, depending on the injury and the person. With emotional support and rehabilitation, improvement or restored brain function can occur, even up to 5 years after the accident. Alcohol-Related Excessive alcohol consumption whether consistently or intermittently can lead to several forms of dementia. Brain damage can result from malnutrition, vitamin deficiency, or liver disease caused by long-term heavy drinking. The effects of dementia can be abated or reversed early on by abstaining from alcohol and improving diet and vitamin intake. Hydrocephalus An abnormal buildup of cerebrospinal fluid in the internal spaces of the brain, causing harmful fluid pressure and potentially leading to dementia in the individual. This can be accompanied by incontinence and loss of mental functions. With early diagnosis, the fluid can be diverted to relieve pressure, using a piece of tubing called a shunt. Irreversible Dementia Causes Alzheimer's disease There is no known cure for Alzheimer's disease, the most prevalent cause of dementia. The condition involves the gradual loss of nerve cells in the brain, impairing memory, judgment, and other brain functions. Early diagnosis is important as there are drugs and disease management techniques which can be used to treat its symptoms. Vascular dementia The second most common form of dementia is caused by multiple strokes due to interrupted blood flow to the brain is Vascular dementia. There is no treatment to restore these functions once damage has occurred. However, treating related conditions like high blood pressure, heart disease, and diabetes can hinder the progress of vascular dementia and, most importantly, prevent further strokes. Parkinson's disease Although Parkinson's does not necessarily lead to dementia, it may develop in later stages of the disease, especially in the elderly. This can lead to impaired reasoning, memory, judgment, and occasionally, speech, in addition to the typical limb stiffness that characterizes Parkinson's. To date, there is no known cure. Website Feedback Contact Us Learn Track Join About Us Contact Information Dementia Community Site Map ©2006 DementiaGuide Inc. Terms of Use Your Privacy We comply with the HONcode