
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 20:56:09 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » ELECTRIC ACUPUNCTURE FOR INSOMNIA Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s ELECTRIC ACUPUNCTURE FOR INSOMNIA February 27th, 2008 People who can’t seem to get to sleep naturally have an alternative to dangerous sleeping drugs. A recent Chinese study by researchers at the Shandong Provincial Hospital in China reveals that using continuous electrical impulses to needle 4 “extraordinary” acupuncture points on the top of the head might be effective on treating sleep disorders such as insomnia. It has long been known through Chinese literature that mild acupuncture stimulation of Sishencong acupoints has been used to treat tension insomnia. According to the article on Chinese Medicine News , “Sishencong are the four points located one inch respectively lateral, anterior and posterior to Baihui (GV 20). Sishencong belongs to extraordinary acupoints located at the central crossing points of the vertex, the front and the back points are located on the track of Dumai and the left and right points are near the track of Bladder Meridian.” Chinese researchers thought to test the results with more continuous, controlled stimulation. During the three-week study, the quality of sleep was measured for patients suffering from insomnia who were being treated with electric acupuncture. After three weeks, their sleep had improved greatly. Electric acupuncture was developed in China as an extension of hand manipulation of acupuncture needles in 1934. The procedure typically begins like normal acupuncture needle insertion. But once “qi” is achieved by hand manipulation, an electrode is attached to the needle to provide a stronger, more consistent stimulation. One benefit of such manipulation is that it can provide the stronger stimulation without causing any tissue damage. Another benefit is that a practitioner can control the amount of stimulus. For more information on the benefits of acupuncture, please call Acucare acupuncture clinic in Miami with licensed acupuncture physicians Dr. Richard Browne or Dr. Renee Skuban for a free consultation , at 305.595.9500. Other | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr