
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 00:01:36 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.mind-mart.com/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: bb2_screener_=1331164896+128.2.207.79; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Herbs For Health Articles | Holistic Health - Part 3 Home Aromatherapy Arthritis Relief Hypnotherapy Positive Thinking Vision Contact Mind Mart Holistic Health You are here: Home / Archives for Herbs for Health Articles Herbs and Hormones: Part 1 By Holistic Health 12 Comments Welcome to a three part series on herbs and hormones. There are many common health problems that have a hormonal imbalance as their root cause. This series will take a look at how herbs can help with these problems. Numerous health problems, symptoms, and conditions are related to, or caused by, hormonal imbalances in a woman’s body. In fact, so many things are caused by hormonal problems, that many of the complaints are dismissed as psychosomatic complaints by doctors who don’t know any better. Just a few of the problems caused by hormonal imbalances include acne, night sweats, chronic fatigue, vaginal dryness, mood swings, depression and anxiety, headaches, fuzzy thinking, and water retention or swelling in various parts of the body. More severe problems are also caused by hormonal imbalances though. Some of these include infertility, Endometriosis, fibroids, heart palpitations, urinary dysfunction and infections, breast pain, and irregular periods. These problems, however, are not limited to women entering menopause which is the common belief of both men and women. In fact, many problems which affect teenage girls, young adult women, and middle aged women are all caused in whole or in part by hormonal problems. Teenage girls often experience heavy acne problems when their body is going through puberty, and this is known to be caused by the hormonal changes happening within her body. Unfortunately many young women never get their hormones balanced properly though, so they continue to struggle with acne throughout their lives. Even older women can suffer from acne which again, is due to hormonal imbalance. Very painful periods and heavy blood flow is another symptom or side effect of hormonal imbalances of women at all ages. In fact, a common prescription remedy for these symptoms for years has been to prescribe birth control pills, which are known to adjust the hormone levels in a woman’s body. Women’s bodies create two hormones naturally: estrogen and progesterone. Both hormones play important roles in a woman’s body, and the balance needs to be kept in order for everything to work properly. Many things can throw the balance of these hormones off however, including stress, poor nutrition, or proper exercise. Doctors and medical scientists will often be concerned primarily with estrogen–primarily because a woman’s body produces less of this hormone as she ages. The link between the two hormones, and the full importance of the progesterone’s role in a woman’s body is not fully known. Most often, treatments simply try to replace estrogen in as a woman’s body produces less of it. The natural approach however, is to restore the balance of the hormone levels in the body. This in turn relieves the myriad of conditions and symptoms caused by an imbalance, and helps improve a woman’s overall health in the process too. [Translate] Filed Under: Herbs for Health Articles Herbs for Blood Pressure By Holistic Health 13 Comments There are many herbs and herbal remedies which actually help to regulate the body’s blood pressure. Whether you have problems with high or low blood pressure, some of these herbs can help with both issues. Other herbs specifically help either lower or raise blood pressure too, so they’re good to know about for general information. Because if you choose to use an herb for other ailments, but you have problems with low or high blood pressure, you’ll need to know that these can cause unintended side effects. So knowing which ones do what will help you to avoid accidental problems, and this is especially important if you’re taking prescription blood pressure medications. So let’s look at some herbs that are wonderful for helping with blood pressure problems. Cayenne – This is an excellent herb that is used in many remedies because it’s a great healer and it’s high in many vitamins and minerals. You’ll often find cayenne included in many infection fighting herbal combinations, because it stimulates the body to heal faster. For blood pressure alone though, Cayenne is a regulating herb. It will normalize the blood pressure, so it can be used for both high or low blood pressure problems. Side Note: Cayenne will also stop bleeding internally and externally. If you have an external wound for instance, that will not stop bleeding, sprinkle a bit of Cayenne on it. Garlic – Another herb that’s used for many different things because it’s so powerful and versatile. Garlic will also regulate the blood pressure, so it can be used for high or low blood pressure problems as well. You’ll find garlic is used in many infection fighting remedies, as well as fungus killing herbal remedies too. Hawthorne – This is known as a heart herb because it can strengthen and regulate the heart. It is a good herb for lowering blood pressure because it relaxes the blood vessels. Hawthorne is useful for people under a lot of stress, and it can help alleviate heart enlargement problems as well as heart fibrillation problems. Dandelion – This herb is used for a wide variety of things, but it’s quite useful for anemia problems, and it’s an excellent choice to use for low blood pressure problems. Valerian Root – This herb is commonly used to quiet spasms, and has a calming effect on nerves. It normalizes heart palpitations and is good for the circulatory system. It can be used for low blood pressure, to raise it. [Translate] Filed Under: Herbs for Health Articles Uses For the Herb Comfrey By Holistic Health 14 Comments Like most herbs, comfrey grows wild or cultivated as a perennial plant in various places of the world. There are several varieties of this herb, and the most useful for medicinal purposes is the Russian Comfrey, or Symphytum x uplandicum . While internal uses of comfrey are considered controversial even among practicing herbalists, it is not necessary to ingest comfrey to reap its greatest medicinal benefits. Used externally, comfrey is completely safe, even for babies, and it is in its use as a wound dressing that comfrey’s magic shines through. The next time you get a wound, sprain your ankle, burn yourself, or even break a bone, turn to comfrey for comfort. The nickname knitbone is one key to just how powerful this particular herb can be for particular external uses. Specifically, comfrey contains a natural compound known as allantoin, which is able to quickly speed up the replacement of cells in the body. This means it’s able to produce rapid healing for broken or sprained bones, and cuts, bruises, or other open wounds. Comfrey has restricted uses in many countries, the United States, Canada, and the U.K. included. The restrictions are generally related to internal uses only, and they’re in place because comfrey contains substances known as hepatotoxic pyrrolizidine alkaloids, or PAs. These PAs can cause a liver disease which could in turn cause liver failure. Some practicing herbalists feel that the internal use of comfrey is quite safe, while others feel that some variations of the herb are safe while others should be avoided. And there are those who simply use comfrey for external applications as well. The external applications alone are quite amazing to anyone who has never encountered them before too. Simply mixing a bit of comfrey with oil, aloe vera, or even beeswax or petroleum jelly will create an instant useable salve which does wonders for a variety of common health problems. Staph infections for instance, which are caused by Staphylococcal bacteria, are quickly killed by simply applying comfrey directly or comfrey salve directly to the infected area. Open wounds heal extremely fast – usually within 24 hours or less – and usually leave no scar behind as well. Broken bones are known to heal faster when comfrey is applied outside the affected area, and torn ligaments and tendons also heal quite quickly when a comfrey salve or poultice is applied externally too. Not only does comfrey start the healing process quite fast, it also helps relieve pain as soon as it comes into contact with the injured area. It’s also excellent for bringing down swelling and reducing inflammation. [Translate] Filed Under: Herbs for Health Articles Feverfew for Migraines By Holistic Health Leave a Comment If you suffer with migraines and have not been helped by traditional medication, you may want to consider feverfew as an alternative remedy. As its name suggests, the traditional use of feverfew is to lower body temperature. However, like most herbs, feverfew has  multiple uses.  For centuries it has been used as a remedy to bring on menstruation, expel the placenta after childbirth, and as an arthritis and rheumatism remedy. In the 1980s feverfew became very popular as a migraine remedy in the United Kingdom. Since then, its use as a alternative migraine treatment has gone worldwide. Today, you will find many migraine remedies contain feverfew. Why is feverfew such a popular migraine remedy? The herb contains the chemical compound ‘parthenolide’ which eases muscle spasms and prevents blood vessels from constricting. These characteristics make it an effective remedy for simple and cluster headaches as well. What does science have to say about feverfew ? More often than not, scientific studies have shown that migraine sufferers did better with feverfew than with a placebo. One study showed that it worked better than NSAIDs (Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) for migraine relief. Varied results may have more to do with the amount of parthenolide contained in feverfew. Tablets and capsules must contain a minimum standardized amount of 0.2 percent parthenolide to be effective. However, some herbalists believe that pinching off two leaves of the plant and eating it raw is better than taking dried leaves in capsule form. There are several ways to take feverfew. As mentioned, you can eat the leaves straight from the plant — but you should know it is quite bitter. It is also available freeze-dried, in tablets, capsules, and liquid extract. Consider making the leaves into a tea and adding a sweetener. Feverfew is safe when taken as directed, but as with any medication, there are people who should avoid it. Since feverfew is a blood thinner, do not take it if you are using anticoagulants. Also, pregnant women, lactating women, and children should not take feverfew. If you are taking other medication, check with your physician before taking feverfew. There are no major reported side effects for feverfew, but a small percentage of people have reported loss of taste, and swollen lips and tongue. If you’ve been using feverfew for more than a week and decide to discontinue use, do not stop taking it abruptly. You will mostly likely experience withdrawal symptoms of headache, muscle stiffness, and joint pain. Feverfew can provide effective relief of migraine headaches. Just remember to read the label. Any migraine remedy should contain at least 0.2 percent parthenolide or you will not reap the full benefit of the herb. [Translate] Filed Under: Herbs for Health Articles Newer Posts » Google+ RSS Twitter Subscribe Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Topics Addiction Air Quality Allergies Anxiety Articles Aromatherapy Art Astral/Lucid Dreaming Ayurveda Back Health Biofeedback Carnival Cold/Flu Contest Cosmetics Depression & Anxiety Articles Detoxification Featured Feng Shui Free eCourse Green Living Healthy Eating Herbal Supplements Herbs for Health Articles Holistic Healing Articles Holistic Health Holistic Health Products Housekeeping Intimacy Light Therapy Mandala Massage Meditation Mindset Oral Hygiene Pet Pilates Skin Care Sleep Spirituality Stress Management Articles Water Yoga Popular Natural Cures For Uterine Fibroids - 5,926 views Symptoms of Kidney Disease - 4,388 views Natural Cures for Ear Aches and Ear Infections - 3,873 views Home Cooked vs. Fast Food - 3,545 views Boil, Boil, Toil and Trouble - 3,198 views Natural Remedies For Allergies - 1,791 views Dangers of Wi-Fi - 1,695 views Dealing With Food Allergies - 1,636 views Flatulence: Herbs For Gas - 1,562 views Symptoms of Food Allergies - 1,440 views Recent Posts Is It Really Clean If I Only Use This? - 199 views Holistic Eating Tips - 152 views Benefits of A Detox and Cleanse - 313 views Hydrotherapy for Personal Development - 274 views Herbal Remedy Options - 244 views Latest Tweets Defining Food Allergies http://t.co/ovaYYvLk #holistic about 3 hours ago Alpine Caveman Cookies: Healthy, Gluten-free, High-protein, Paleolithic (1 Bag of 12 Cookies). #paleo http://t.co/YMMmB7yp about 3 hours ago The Lawn Habit That's Killing Your Dog - http://t.co/qnvpnERJ #lawn #dog about 3 hours ago Page 3 of 3 « 1 2 3 Holistic Health Tips Books About Health What Is the Portfolio Diet? What Is Hydrosol? Fibroid Cure Vitamin Supplements - Who Needs 'em? What Are Bitters? Natural Perfume The Questioning Mind Reiki: An Alternative Health Juggernaut Health Benefits of Fermented Vegetables Holistic Health Tips Colon Hydrotherapy - Benefits and Protocols Tea Time Properties of Essential Oils Are You Overeating? Natural Supplements For Arthritis Love Potions Cross Reactivity and Food Allergies What Is Kelp? The Paleo Diet and Cholesterol How Vitamin D May Be Used to Treat Disease Return to top of page Copyright © 2012 Lifestyle Theme · Genesis Framework by StudioPress · WordPress · Affiliate Disclosure · Privacy Policy · Log in powered by Conte