
Delta Dental Plan of New Jersey Newsletter February
            2007, Issue 14 Home Members Employers Dentists Brokers Forms FAQs Flagship Foundation Fight Fraud About Us Kids from Low-Income Homes 
                        Benefit from School-Based Sealant Programs, Says CDC School-based 
                      dental sealant programs improve public health and reduce 
                      public health costs when they reach groups at high risk 
                      for tooth decay, such as children in low-income 
                      households, according to the Centers for Disease Control 
                      and Prevention (CDC). The CDC notes that 
                      poor children have nearly 12 times more 
                      restricted-activity days because of dental-related illness 
                      than children from higher-income families. Pain and 
                      suffering due to untreated tooth decay can lead to 
                      problems in eating, speaking and learning. Fewer than one 
                      in five Medicaid-covered children received at least one 
                      preventive dental service in the year. Tooth decay is 
                      the most common chronic disease of children ages 5 to 17. 
                      It's five times more common than asthma. Cavities grow 
                      larger and more expensive to repair the longer they remain 
                      untreated. Children 
                      receiving dental sealants in school-based programs have 
                      60% fewer new decayed pit and fissure surfaces in back 
                      teeth for up to 2-5 years after a single application. 
                      Among children, 90% of decay is in pits and fissures. School-based 
                      sealant programs provide sealants to children unlikely to 
                      receive them otherwise (e.g., children in low-income 
                      households). Children in racial and ethnic minority groups 
                      have about three times more untreated decay and teeth 
                      missing due to tooth decay, but are about one-third as 
                      likely to receive sealants. Many Americans 
                      now enjoy markedly better oral health than their parents 
                      did. However, certain segments of the population, 
                      including the poor and members of racial or ethnic 
                      minority groups, still have severe dental decay, much of 
                      which remains untreated. Community-based programs such as 
                      school-based dental sealant programs are a particularly 
                      cost-effective way to help eliminate disparities, so all 
                      Americans receive the benefits of good oral health, says 
                      the CDC. (Source: www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/publications/factsheets/prevention/oh.htm ) Other Wisdom Tooth stories 
                  in this issue: • Captain Supertooth Hooks 
                Kids on Oral Health • ADA 
                Offers Free Resources for Schools • Kids 
                  with Dental Coverage See Dentists More • Experimental 
                  Treatment May Stamp Out Tooth Decay • Dentists 
                  Diagnose 1 in 4 Bulimia Cases • Dental 
                  Grills Need Special Care Click here for
                  previous issues 
                  of Wisdom Tooth Comments & 
              suggestions are welcome: Contact our editor at smi