<http://wp.me/P1JBZ1-n>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Cookie,User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Last-Modified: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 08:18:32 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Choosing Kid's Cough Syrup | Press Releases | Natural Cough Syrup by Boiron Boiron USA Product Locator Healthcare Professionals About Children’s Chestal Children’s Chestal Honey Children’s Chestal Berry Children’s Chestal In The News Boiron News & Updates Boiron Promise Cough, Cold & Flu Cough, Cold & Flu Medicines Frequently Asked Questions Benefits of Honey Treating Your Child’s Cough Natural Cough Relief Keeping Your Kids Healthy Special Offers Where to Buy Independent Retailers Chains Online Merchants Mail Order Retailers Testimonials Healthcare Professionals Consumer Testimonials Share Your Children’s Chestal Story Press Room Children’s Chestal® Wins Award Choosing a Cough Syrup Safe Choices Available for Parents Choosing a Cough Syrup Choosing a Cough Syrup Doesn’t Have to be Complicated Newtown Square, Pa. – Just looking down the cough syrup aisle can be confusing to a consumer. The overwhelming number of choices catering to different types of cough and different age groups under one roof can also be expensive. Chestal ® brand cough syrups simplify the process of choosing a cough medicine by creating an economical multi-cough formula to relieve coughs due to all types of coughs due to minor throat and bronchial irritation that may occur with a cold. Additionally, Chestal is safe and convenient for everyone in the household—from ages 2 to 102. What consumers need to know is that most coughs fall into two categories: nonproductive (dry or spasmodic cough) and productive (wet cough). While either can be irritating to the throat, typically the dry and fitful coughs need to be calmed and soothed, especially at bedtime so they don’t prevent sleep. These nonproductive coughs eventually need to evolve to productive coughs. Productive coughs should not be suppressed, as they promote expectoration of these bronchial secretions from the air ducts. Unlike cough medications that rely on suppressants, decongestants or antihistamines, the Chestal brand formula works in a different way to target all types of common coughs. The natural goodness of honey in Chestal instantly coats and soothes the throat, while a blend of homeopathic medicines loosens chest congestion, thereby relieving dry and spasmodic coughs by making them more productive. By thinning bronchial sections, Chestal can also help make a wet cough even more productive, which is especially important when a cough sufferer is too weak to expectorate effectively. The Chestal brand formula works naturally with the body to improve the productivity of a cough. This combination provides non-drowsy relief that’s important for busy folks throughout the day and a soothing effect that is appreciated at bedtime. The formula is packaged as either “Children’s Chestal®” or “Chestal” so that parents can more easily find it in the children’s aisle or among the many products within the cough and cold section for adults. One of the safest brands of cough medicines, Chestal does not contain any of the ingredients recently questioned by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in youngsters. There are no known side effects, including drowsiness. Additionally, there is no risk of overdosing or drug interactions if combined with a cold medicine. Cough sufferers and parents alike will also appreciate that the Chestal brand cough syrups have a sweet, honey, kid-friendly taste. As a product of Boiron, world leader in homeopathic medicines, Chestal brand cough syrups are manufactured according to the highest standards, complying with the specifications of the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States and drug Good Manufacturing Practices. Chestal cough syrups are available at natural product stores, independent pharmacies and select chain pharmacies nationwide. Both Chestal and Children’s Chestal come in 4.2 oz (12 to 25 doses) individual-size and 8.45 oz (25 to 50 doses) family-size recyclable glass bottles with tamper-evident caps. To locate the nearest store that carries Chestal and Children’s Chestal, visit www.boironusa.com , call the Boiron Information Center at 1-800-BOIRON-1 (1-800-264-7661) or e-mail info@boironusa.com . About Boiron : Boiron, world leader in homeopathic medicines, is a $730 million public company with 4,000 employees in more than 80 countries. It is best known for its top-selling flu medicine, Oscillococcinum ® , its Chestal® cough syrup, and its Arnicare ® line of pain relievers. For nearly 80 years, Boiron has been committed to funding scientific research and educating the public and healthcare professionals on homeopathic medicines. As a pharmaceutical company, Boiron maintains the highest standards in manufacturing, complying with U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations, the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States and drug Good Manufacturing Practices. Relates Sites Oscillococcinum Children’s Oscillococcinum Chestal Arnicare Camilia Teething Boiron USA Sitemap Home About Chestal Cough, Cold & Flu Special Offers Where to Buy Press Room The Boiron Way Watch the video to learn more about us. About  Boiron At Boiron, we believe there’s a better way to feel good. A better way that works naturally with your body. Since 1932, the Boiron family has been committed to providing safe, natural medicines. As world leader in homeopathic medicines, our passion is your total health. Our promise is your total satisfaction. 

Find out more at www.boironusa.com. © 2012 Boiron®, All