
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 02:00:43 GMT
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Server: Apache
SN: www-14-e1b
Vary: Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: Close

Sleep - Catch ZZZZZZ Using Magne-z-ium - by Peter Gillham, C.N. Healthy Rewards | Help | Contact Us | Policies | About Us | Wellness Consultations Call Toll Free: 1.800.634.1380 LISTEN to this month's radio spot! | Free Shipping Offer | My Cart | My Account Home Vitamins & Supplements Environmental Equipment Personal Care Domestic Clothing Gluten-free Pet Care Books Search Shop by Brand » Shop by Health Topic or Category » Quick Order » Newsletters Current Newsletters » Past Articles by Categories » Health & Wellness Library » Monthly Specials » New Products » Request a Free Catalog » E-Newsletter Sign up and get exclusive news and promotions » Listen and Learn Latest Wellness Teleseminar Webcast » Dr. Christopher Mohr Archived Wellness Teleseminar Webcasts » Nutritional Insights Webcasts » Home / Library / Sleep / Catch ZZZZZZ Using Magne-z-ium - by Peter Gillham, C.N. Catch ZZZZZZ Using Magne-z-ium by Peter Gillham, C.N. If you have spent even one sleepless night in bed, you understand the frustration associated with insomnia. However, if you are one of the 60 million Americans ho suffer from chronic insomnia and its serious repercussions—fatigue, irritability, lack of concentration and focus, reduced immunity, etc.—then magnify that frustration a thousand-fold. You begin to try everything from meditation to over-the-counter medications to grab a night of that elusive restful, quality sleep. BUT HAVE YOU EVER CONSIDERED MAGNESIUM? The inability to sleep and other stress-related maladies, such as muscle spasms, cramps, tension, and feeling uncomfortable upon rising are caused by lack of minerals, particularly magnesium. As an essential macro-mineral, magnesium is more important than calcium, potassium, or sodium, however, the body needs all three (plus phosphorous) to function properly. Involved in several hundred enzymatic reactions throughout the body, magnesium is considered the "anti-stress" mineral. It is a natural tranquilizer, that relaxes both skeletal muscles and the smooth muscles of blood vessels and the gastrointestinal tract. (While calcium stimulates contraction of muscles, magnesium relaxes them.) So when the body lacks sufficient magnesium, many people suffer with stress-related symptoms, including high sensitivity, nervousness, edginess, irritability, anxiety, jumping at loud noises, fatigue, and insomnia.
Unfortunately, magnesium deficiency is very common—90 to 95 percent of the population is deficient, but generally go unidentified. Therefore, this deficiency is not found or corrected. Deficiency is likely in those who: Eat a high processed-food diet (i.e. nearly 85 percent of the magnesium in grains is lost during the milling of flours and in refining oils from magnesium-rich nuts and seeds) Soak or boil all foods, especially vegetables (both can leach magnesium into the water, thus leaving the liquid from cooking vegetables high in magnesium and other minerals) Drink soft water Are alcoholics Eat food grown in magnesium-deficient soil, where synthetic fertilizers containing no magnesium are often used DEFICIENCY IS ALSO MORE COMMON WHEN MAGNESIUM ABSORPTION IS DECREASED, SUCH AS: After burns, serious injuries, or surgery In patients with diabetes, liver disease, or malabsorption problems When magnesium elimination is increased, as in people who: - Have large amounts of stress - Use alcohol, caffeine, or excess sugar - Take diuretics or birth control pills About 40 to 50 percent of the magnesium we consume is absorbed, though this may vary from 25 to 75 percent depending on stomach acid levels, bodily need, and dietary habits. The kidneys can excrete or conserve magnesium accordingly. The intestines can also eliminate excess magnesium in the feces. When not affected by risk factors, the best food sources of magnesium come from the vegetable kingdom, though seafood has fairly high amounts. As a component of chlorophyll, this mineral is important to plant photosynthesis; therefore, dark green vegetables are good sources of magnesium. Most nuts, seeds, and legumes have high amounts of magnesium as well as soy products, especially flour and tofu. Whole grains, particularly wheat (especially the bran and germ), millet, and brown rice; and fruits, such as avocados and dried apricots, are other sources. As previously noted, however, there are many factors that affect magnesium availability from foods, leaving many people deficient. An obvious solution is supplementation, but in which form? Most are familiar with capsules and tablets. However, when taken as a powder, magnesium can be completely dissolved in water. In this form, it absorbs fast into the body, producing almost instant relief. Natural Calm is a product developed especially for instant relief from deficiencies, particularly stressrelated symptoms and insomnia. It handle sexcess calcium in the body and gradually dissolves calcium deposits. It is made from a water-soluble form developed by a proprietary process, discovered 20 years ago, which provides the most absorbable, effective, fast-acting magnesium available. Because it comes in a powder, it can be made fresh each time, is more bio-available than tablets and capsules, and doesn't produce side effects. So even though it is not as prevalent as the other macrominerals, magnesium has many essential metabolic functions in the body. If getting proper rest, relaxation, and sleep, as well as the ability to better manage stress, is what you need, then a highquality, instantly bio-available magnesium supplement is the answer. Natural Calm will enable you to get satisfying and restful sleep, so you can be properly energized and awake to get the most out of your health and your life. Related Products Enzymatic Therapy L-Theanine 100 mg 60 Veg Capsules Natrol Melatonin Liquid 1 mg 2 Fluid Ounces Hyland's Calms Forte 100 Tablets Natural Vitality Natural Calm 8 Ounces Order Status | Wellness Consultations | Healthy Rewards | Help | Contact Us | Policies | About Us | Tracking | Site Map Trusted SSL Certificate © 2011-2012 Nutritional Ecological Environmental Delivery System The claims made about specific products throughout this website have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease. The information provided on this website is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional. You should not use the information on this website for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise, or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you might have a health problem. The product ingredients and images displayed on this website may differ from information contained on or in current product labels. N.E.E.D.S. (Nutritional Ecological Environmental Delivery System) is an international mail-order resource that specializes in providing products, information, and education in the areas of Chemical Sensitivity, Environmental Illness, Fibromyalgia, Celiac Disease, and Candida. Our selection of products includes Vitamins and Supplements, Environmental Equipment [air & water purification, portable saunas, oral hygiene, seasonal affective disorder (SAD) and electromagnetic field (EMF) products], Gluten-Free Foods, Personal Care, Domestic, and Pet Care