
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 24 Feb 2012 10:34:38 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.3.11
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 24 Feb 2012 10:34:38GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=iso-8859-1

Anguilla Villa, Hotel and Visitor Guide  - Varicose Veins Found at: http://www.anguillaguide.com/article/articleprint/9317/-1/209/ Varicose Veins Many individuals in Anguilla have varicose veins of the feet. For some this is just a cosmetic concern, while for others it can cause pain and discomfort. Then there are those for whom it might be a sign of more serious cardiovascular disorders. What are Varicose veins? Varicose veins are defined as swollen, distended veins, usually occurring in the legs. They are quite unsightly in some individuals. Any vein may become varicose, but the veins most commonly affected are those in the legs and feet. That is because standing and walking upright increases the pressure in the veins of your lower body. Varicose veins may also form in other places on your legs, from your groin to your ankle. Varicose veins occur most often in people ages 30 to 70. What causes varicose veins? The exact cause of varicose veins is not known for many patients.  We now know if other family members had varicose veins, there's a greater chance you will too. As you get older, your veins can lose elasticity causing them to stretch. Varicose veins are caused by weakened valves and veins in your legs. Normally, one-way valves in your veins keep blood flowing from your legs up toward your heart. When these valves do not work as they should, blood collects in your legs, and pressure builds up. The veins become weak, large, and twisted. The veins appear blue because they contain deoxygenated blood, which is in the process of being re-circulated through the lungs. Some pregnant women develop varicose veins. Pregnancy increases the volume of blood in your body, but decreases the flow of blood from your legs to your pelvis. This circulatory change is designed to support the growing fetus, but it can produce enlarged veins in your legs. Varicose veins may surface for the first time or may worsen during late pregnancy, when your uterus exerts greater pressure on the veins in your legs. Changes in your hormones during pregnancy may also play a role. Varicose veins that develop during pregnancy generally improve without medical treatment within three months after delivery. Women are more likely to develop the condition. Hormonal changes during pregnancy, premenstruation or menopause may be a factor. Female hormones tend to relax vein walls. Taking hormone replacement therapy or birth control pills may increase your risk of varicose veins. Being overweight puts added pressure on your veins, therefore varicose veins are more common in the overweight or obese individual. People whose job involves standing for long periods of time also tend to develop varicose veins in the legs. The longer a person stands without moving, the more the blood pools in the veins. What are the symptoms and signs of varicose veins? In the vast majority of individuals with varicose veins of the feet there is no pain, but the veins might appear very dark purple or blue in colour and have a bulging appearance. Varicose veins may also form in other places on your legs, from your groin to your ankle. When painful signs and symptoms occur, they may include: •	An achy or heavy feeling in your legs •	Burning, throbbing, muscle cramping and swelling in your lower legs •	Worsened pain after sitting or standing for a long time •	Itching around one or more of your veins •	Skin ulcers near your ankle, which can mean you have a severe form of vascular disease that requires medical attention Diagnosis If you think you have varicose veins you should see your doctor. Your doctor will take a history and do a physical examination. A number of tests might be done, including an ultrasound scan, to see if the valves in your veins are functioning normally or if there's any evidence of a blood clot. Treatment and drugs The individual with varicose veins can do a lot to help treat this disorder. Such as exercising, losing weight, not wearing tight clothes, elevating your legs, and avoiding long periods of standing or sitting. Compression stockings also may help. Compression stockings Wearing compression stockings is often the first approach to try before moving on to other treatments. Compression stockings are worn all day. They steadily squeeze your legs, helping veins and leg muscles move blood more efficiently. The amount of compression varies by type and brand. Stockings come in a variety of strengths, styles and colours. With the variety offered, you're likely to find a stocking that you're comfortable wearing. When purchasing compression stockings, make sure that they fit properly. Compression stockings should be strong, but not necessarily tight. If you have weak hands or arthritis, getting these stockings on may be difficult. If you do not respond to self-care, compression stockings, or if your condition is more severe, your doctor may suggest one of the following options: •	Sclerotherapy to close off the vein. •	Laser treatment to destroy the vein. •	Radiofrequency treatment to close off the vein. •	Surgery to tie off or remove the vein. Varicose veins that develop during pregnancy generally improve without medical treatment within three months after delivery. Current treatments for varicose veins are effective. However, it's possible that varicose veins can recur. Lifestyle changes There's no way to completely prevent varicose veins. But improving your circulation and muscle tone can reduce your risk of developing varicose veins or getting additional ones. There are some self-care measures you can take to decrease the discomfort that varicose veins can cause. These same measures can help prevent or slow the development of varicose veins as well. They include: •	Exercise. Get your legs moving. Walking is a great way to encourage blood circulation in your legs. Your doctor can recommend an appropriate activity level for you. •	Watch your weight, and your diet. Maintaining an ideal weight and eating healthy can be beneficial. •	Watch what you wear. Avoid high heels. Low-heeled shoes work calf muscles more, which is better for your veins. Avoid wearing tight clothes around your waist, legs or groin. Tight panty-leg girdles, for instance, can cut off blood flow. •	Elevate your legs. To improve the circulation in your legs, take several short breaks daily to elevate your legs above the level of your heart. •	Avoid long periods of sitting or standing. Make a point of changing your position frequently to encourage blood flow. Try to move around at least every 30 minutes. Conclusion Many individuals, especially females, are affected by varicose veins in the legs. Varicose veins are twisted, enlarged veins near the surface of the skin. They are most common in the legs and ankles. They usually are not serious, but they can sometimes lead to other problems. If you suffer from varicose veins see your doctor for further evaluation. In most instances simple lifestyle changes might provide treatment, but in some cases other forms of treatment might be necessary. Ask Your Dr is a health education column and is not a substitute for medical advice from your physician. Dr Brett Hodge is an obstetrician/gynaecologist and family doctor who has over twenty five years in clinical practice. He has a medical practice in the Johnson Building in The Valley. 