
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 23:39:38 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedies Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedies Bacterial vaginosis is a condition where women experience excess fluid discharge from the vagina due to overgrowth of certain bacteria. The vagina gets swollen with an itchy irritation and there is a constant feeling of discomfort. At times, it causes a burning sensation, especially during sexual intercourse. There are medicines, especially antibiotics that are available in the market for treating Bacterial vaginosis. However, most women treating this disease with antibiotics often find it resurfacing within the next few months. In contrast, there are certain home remedies that are far more effective for treating Bacterial vaginosis, coupled with maintaining personal hygiene. We will explore some of them. Home Remedies The simplest home remedy would be to cover the infected area with a clean wet cloth. This will give you relief from the itching sensation and reduce the inflammation. Yogurt is an effective remedy and taking a bowl of yogurt everyday knocks off this disease permanently. There is another application of yogurt. It can be applied on the infection with the help of a cotton balls to alleviate itching. Tea, an excellent remedy for treating bacterial vaginosis can be used in two ways. Herbal tea is a natural cure for this disease and can be consumed daily. You can also take a tea bag dip in water, cool inside the refrigerator. The bag is now applied on the infected area. Garlic is strongly recommended to those having this problem. It can be taken raw as in the capsule for. Mashed peeled garlic clove can be applied on the vagina every 2-3 hours. This in turn reduces the infection. Neem and turmeric powder are both anti fungal and very effective for curing this disease. You can make a paste and apply it in the infected area. Neem can be taken in the form of capsule. Similarly, turmeric powder can be dissolved in milk and consumed to get the desired results. Vegetable juices and stalks containing ginger and garlic together with green vegetables are very useful in reducing the pain and itching. Apart from this, practicing simple personal hygiene, such as clean toilet, regular bath, using separate towel, bed sheets, etc helps in curing bacterial vaginosis. Also Read: :: Home Remedy for Sprained Ankle :: Home Remedy for Itching :: Cure Razor Bumps :: Home Remedy for Heart Problems :: Sprained Ankle Remedies :: Home Remedies for Arthritis :: Home Remedies for Toothache :: Home Remedy for Yeast Infection :: Home Remedy for Cold :: Home Remedies for Bee Stings :: Home Therapy :: Home Remedies for Styes :: Cure for Razor Bumps :: Home Remedy for Dry Cough :: Remedy for Sprained Ankle Oohoi Home Introduction Disease Healthy Living Breathe Exercise Vitamins Physical Therapy Acupuncture Alexander Technique Chiropractic Massage Music Therapy Reflexology Water Therapy Yoga Herbal Therapy Aromatherapy Herbal Remedy Homeopathy Natural Remedies Food as Remedy Home R