Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Australian Jelly Bush Honey a Powerful Antibacterial CALL NOW: 61 2 9907 2377 Email: info@royaljelly.com.au Home What is Royal Jelly? The benefits of Royal Jelly How is Royal Jelly collected? About Us Contact Us Australian  Jelly Bush Honey a Powerful Antibacterial Native Honey a Sweet Antibacterial By Katherine Nightingale, Australian  Geographic , 3/3/2011 A native honey may well be the most powerfully antimicrobial honey ever  discovered, say Queensland researchers. The honey, cultivated at undisclosed locations in northern NSW and southeast  Queensland, is made by bees that have fed on Leptospermum polygalifolium, also  known as jelly bush or the lemon-scented tea tree. The researchers tested 100 jelly bush honeys from a range of areas and found  that some had 1750mg/kg of the antibacterial compound 'methylglyoxal' – the  highest concentration yet found in this kind of honey. This is higher even than  the concentration found in New Zealand's famed manuka honey, made from  Leptospermum scoparium, a cousin to the myrtle tree. Honey has long been known to have antimicrobial properties, and has been used  since ancient times as a remedy for wounds. Interest in its medicinal use has  resurged in recent years with the discovery of the potency of manuka and jelly  bush honeys. Unknown x-factor Jelly bush grows all along the east coast from southern NSW to Cape York, but  no one knows why only certain trees lead to the highest methylglyoxal levels in  honey, says Dr Yasmina Sultanbawa, with the Queensland Alliance for Agriculture  and Food Innovation (QAAFI), which carried out the latest study with the  University of Queensland and two medicinal honey companies. An additional unknown is how methylglyoxal works, she says. All honey has  antibacterial activity to a certain extent, but only honeys such as jelly bush  and manuka have particularly strong antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory  effects, and they also seem to hasten the wound-healing process. What is known is that methylglyoxal's antimicrobial potency is strengthened  when it's taken in honey, suggesting that it acts in synergy with other  components – this is an area the researchers plan to further study. "We're  looking at the mechanism of action of methylglyoxal and also the other antimicrobial  phytochemicals and enzymes in honey. This is just the tip of iceberg; there is  a lot more to be done," says Yasmina… However, Dr Peter Molan, from the University of Waikato in New Zealand, argues  that a higher methylglyoxal level doesn't necessarily correlate with a better  antimicrobial effect. Peter, a biochemist, discovered the antimicrobial  activity of manuka honey in the 1980s and says the synergy that boosts  methylglyoxal activity has been found only in some types of manuka honey. On its own, methylglyoxal can kill some human cells as well as bacterial cells,  but there is something in medical-grade manuka honey which counteracts this  toxicity, says Peter. "With the Queensland honey, it is not known whether  there is enough of the protective component to overcome the toxicity of the  very high levels of methylglyoxal. A lot more testing would be required before  it could be assumed to be safe to use on infected tissues," he says… Posted by Editor at 1:00 AM Labels: Apitherapy  and Beekeeping Bee Health Articles Royal jelly: what all the buzz is abou t Produced by glands in  worker bees' heads, royal jelly is fed to larvae and the adult queen bee. Read full article Typical Constituents of Royal Jelly A literature search has been conducted to determine  constituents of Royal Jelly. Read full article Australian Jelly Bush – A Powerful Anti Bacterial A  native honey may well be the most powerfully antimicrobial honey ever  discovered, say Queensland researchers. Read full article HOME WHAT IS ROYAL JELLY? How is Royal Jelly Collected? The benefits of Royal Jelly Buy Royal Jelly online ABOUT US CONTACT US 