
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-ServedBy: web127
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:45:51 GMT
Connection: close
Server: SSWS
Vary: Accept-Encoding

FEVERFEW (Tanacetum parthenium) - Important Herbs from Around the World - Tillotson Institute of Natural Health Search Herbal Basics Welcome Principles and Traditions Growth, Manufacture, Quality How to Evaluate Information Safety and Regulation Actions and Interactions The Language of Herbs Understanding Herbs Consultations Herb Encyclopedia Important Herbs from Around the World Disease Treatments Treatment - The Big Picture Specific Diseases/Patterns/Syndromes Alan &  Naixin's Clinic Clinic Overview Staff Directions Order medicine Send email to Chrysalis References & Downloads References Downloads Links One Earth Herbal Sourcebook Login squarespace login « FENNEL SEED  (Foeniculum vulgare) | Main | FLAXSEED OIL (Linum usitatissimum) » FEVERFEW (Tanacetum parthenium) Latin: Tanacetum parthenium WHAT IT DOES: Feverfew is sweet
and slightly bitter in taste, and slightly cold in action.  It
reduces heat and inflammation and prevents headaches and dizziness. RATING: yellow, due to minor limitations in usage SAFETY ISSUES: Should not be
used during pregnancy, as it is a uterine stimulant.  Occasional
minor side effects such as mouth and gastric disturbance have been
reported (reported in McGuffin et al., 1997).  Some scientists
voice concerns about potential allergic reactions or cross-reactivity
with blood thinning agents such as Warfarin and Ticlopidine (Barsby et
al., 1993, DeSmet, 1993). STARTING DOSAGE: • Standardized capsules (600 mcg.  parthenolide): one to three capsules per day Feverfew is now well-known as a reliable remedy for migraine
headaches.  It also has a long historical record for use against
arthritis and other forms of arthritis. It prevents release of
inflammatory chemicals from white blood cells and platelets, which
makes it useful for rheumatoid arthritis. Large differences have been found in various commercial preparations,
and there are concerns about processing methods, so be sure to purchase
feverfew from a reliable supplier (Barsby et al., 1993, Brown et al.,
1997) Research Highlights • Researchers assessed the ability of feverfew to prevent migraine in a
randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled crossover study using 60
patients.  They found a reduction in the mean number and severity
of attacks in each two-month period of the study, although the duration
of individual attacks was unchanged.  They also reported a
reduction in the degree of vomiting There were no serious side-effects
(Murphy.  et al., 1988).  A previous study of 17 patients
reported similar results (Johnson et al., 1985). • Research reviews have shown feverfew to be effective for easing migraines (Volger et al., 1998). references Posted on Sunday, January 9, 2005 at 02:34PM by posted by Dr. Tillotson in Herbal encyclopedia | Comments Off View Printer Friendly Version Email Article to Friend Copyri