<http://healthnineoneone.com/?p=123>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Cookie,User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.3
Last-Modified: Tue, 21 Feb 2012 15:07:57 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Treating High Blood Pressure By Acupuncture Home Contact Us Top Story Experts 911 Featured Where To Buy Home Remedy General Wellness News Acupuncture For High Blood Pressure Posted  by heal911 on Mar 14, 2011 in Uncategorize | 0 comments Since times immemorial, Acupuncture is a unique treatment for reducing high blood pressure in human beings. High blood pressure refers to a situation where blood starts exerting pressure against the walls of arteries, veins and also the chambers of the heart. Over a specified time period, this heavy rush of blood starts damaging the lining of the blood vessels. It can also lead to arteriosclerosis, meaning hardening of the arteries. Symptoms of high blood pressure High blood pressure symptoms are often acute in human beings. They include sudden dizziness, flushed faces, nervousness, severe headaches, restlessness, difficult breathing, nose bleeding, insomnia, intestinal complaints, depression, short temper and emotional instability. The diagnosis of high blood pressure is done when the normal pressure tends to repeatedly rise. The other physical symptoms of high blood pressure includes constant tendency to urinate, decrease in eye vision and muscle weakness. Electro-acupuncture treatments Acupuncture combined with electric stimulation or electro-acupuncture can lower elevations of blood pressure in human beings. When the research was conducted for the first time, acupuncture needles were inserted on the inside of the forearm just above the wrist, but to no avail. Researchers then started adding electric stimulation to the needles, which means that electric would start flowing from the needles to the body. While high frequency of stimulation had no effect, low frequencies of electro stimulation reduced blood pressure effectively. A thorough research on acupuncture shows that the inserted needles excites brain cells, causing them to release neurotransmitters that always heighten the heart’s activities. To cure high blood pressure, acupuncture inserts needles on certain points on the wrist, forearm or leg, to excite the opioid chemicals in the brain and reduce excitatory responses of the cardiovascular systems. This eventual decrease in heart activity and need for oxygen can lower blood pressure to a great extent. It also promotes in the healing of other heart-related conditions like myocardial ischemia and hypertensions. Other acupuncture treatments to reduce high blood pressure While you are undergoing acupuncture treatments for curing high blood pressure, you can also use herbs like Tian Ma [Gastrodia Rhizome], Xia Ku Cao [Prunella] and Shan Zha to reduce high blood pressure. You should inject the juices of these herbs into your blood to achieve better results. A unique and natural acupuncture treatment for high blood pressure also include pressing of the skin on the back of your hand in between the thumb and index finger. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. You must be logged in to post a comment. Categories Select Category Acid Reflux Acne Acupuncture ADHD Allergies Alternative Medicines Anthrax Anxiety Aromatherapy Arthritis Asthma Autism Ayurveda Back Pain Cancer Childs Health Cholesterol Cold Constipation Cramps Detox Disease Drug Addiction Experts 911 Featured Flu General Wellness Headache Health Heartburn Herbals Herbs Home Remedy Hypnosis Insomnia Massage Medicinal Mushrooms Meditation Mesothelioma Neck Pain News Nutrition Personal Dental Care Recipe Skin Conditions Skin Infections Smoking Sunburn Superfood Technology Thyroid Disorder Toothaches Top Story Uncategorize Warts Weight Loss Wellness Where To Buy Recommendation