
Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention: Update on the Halting of Trials HOME GIVING Actions Donations MEMBERS Members Section Membership FAQ Our members Members list Our members by region Services offered by our members EVENTS Forum and AGM Golf Tournament Reignite the Flame Scotiabank AIDS Walk for Life World AIDS Day World AIDS Day Gala LIVING WITH HIV/AIDS Cannabis as Therapy Disclosure General Info and Statistics GIPA Hepatitis C Hotlines Testing Treatment and Care PREVENTION Blood Products Drug Use / Harm Reduction Microbicides New Prevention Technologies Positive Prevention Sexual Activities Vaccines Workplace Exposure SOCIAL ISSUES Education/Literacy Ethics/Legal Issues Global Issues Housing/Homelessness Population Specific Information Aboriginal People Ethnocultural Communities Gay Men/MSM Heterosexual Populations People Who Use Drugs Prisons Women Youth/Children/Families Poverty/Income Workplace Issues ABOUT US Annual Reports Community Action Principles Core Values/Beliefs Excellence in HIV/AIDS History/Milestones Links Privacy Remembering our Losses NEWS & INFORMATION Job Postings Media Media Kit Media Releases Newsletters Speakers Bureau Follow @CDNAIDS PRIVACY PRINT SEND A LINK HOME FRANCAIS CONTACT US You are here: Prevention / Sexual Activities / Social Issues / Population Specific Information / Gay Men/MSM / Social Issues / Population Specific Information / People from Countries Where HIV is Endemic / Social Issues / Population Specific Information / Ethnocultural Communities Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention: Update on the Halting of Trials On December 13, 2006, two trials sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) were halted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) due to positive results. These trials were situated in Kenya and Uganda and built on earlier results from a South African male circumcision study that was released in 2005.  The study in Kenya was also funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) with Dr. Stephen Moses as the principal investigator for the University of Manitoba.  Dr. Moses worked with Drs. J.O. Ndinya-Achola from the University of Nairobi in Kenya and Robert C. Bailey from the University of Illinois. Background on Male Circumcision The surgical procedure of male circumcision predates recorded history with depictions of this procedure in ancient Egyptian tombs and cave drawings.  In Victorian times, it was considered a cure for masturbation in America and quickly spread to other English speaking countries, including Canada. It is estimated that one-sixth to one-third of the male population worldwide is circumcised.  In Canada, the rates of male circumcision have been declining.  Recent data from the National Institute for Health indicated that 9.2% of male newborns were circumcised in 2005.  However, this data does not take into account procedures that were done in doctors’ offices or during childhood, which is the normal procedure in Canada. Male circumcision is largely determined by cultural, religious and/or ethnic factors.  For instance, males of either Islamic or Jewish faiths are required to be circumcised.  It is also an initiation rite in some African and Pacific Islander traditions. Study Background Observation studies found that lower rates of HIV infection tend to be in countries with higher rates of male circumcision. Various theories on the reasons behind this have been proposed. Research has shown that the underside of the foreskin holds many cells that HIV targets. It acts as a physical barrier that can trap HIV next to this mucosal surface for a longer period of time.  The foreskin may provide a good environment for bacteria and viruses.  It may be susceptible to tears, scratches and abrasions. Male circumcision has been associated with a much lowered risk of penile cancer, and a recent study of 18-25 year-olds has also shown that uncircumcised men are twice as likely to contract a STI. The first official trial to look at the effectiveness of male circumcision for HIV prevention was done in 2005 in South Africa. Called the Orange Farm Intervention Trial, it recruited uncircumcised men between the ages of 18 and 24 and the results showed a 60% reduction in the risk of acquiring HIV among men who were circumcised. At the time these results were released, trials in Kenya and Uganda on male circumcision had completed enrollment.  It was decided that these two sites would proceed with the trials, and an interim review by the DSMB was added.  HIV-negative uncircumcised men were recruited in both trial sites.  The trial in Uganda recruited men between the ages of 15 and 49, and the trial in Kenya recruited men between 18 and 24 years old. On December 12, 2006, the NIAID DSMB reviewed the data and found that adult male circumcision reduced the risk of acquiring HIV infection by 48% in Uganda and 53% in Kenya.  The trials as they stood were then halted and circumcision was offered to those men in the control groups.  The studies will continue to measure HIV infection rates and risk-taking behavior and attitudes of the participants. The three trials were done in different age populations, using different circumcision methods, in different geographical populations with varying risk profiles.  These factors all strengthen the data results from these trials. Research is now being done on the impact of male circumcision on the risk of HIV and other STI transmission to female partners in Uganda with results expected in 2008.  The risk of HIV transmission on men who have sex with men has not yet been studied. Male Circumcision as a Prevention Method While male circumcision can have an enormous impact on the HIV pandemic, particularly in high prevalence areas, it is important to emphasize that it is not a magic bullet.  In fact, the impact of this procedure as a prevention method will likely only be seen in higher incidence areas. Male circumcision is a very cost-effective and a one-time procedure.  However, since male circumcision is largely determined by cultural, religious and/or ethnic factors, it is limited in its use as a popular prevention method.  Promoting male circumcision amongst some groups would be as unacceptable as promoting male non-circumcision in other groups where it is traditionally practiced. Male circumcision needs to be part of a comprehensive prevention package that includes risk reduction, access to testing and counseling, and access to condoms.  It is also vital that we continue to pursue other prevention technologies such as cervical barriers, preventive HIV vaccines as well as vaginal and rectal microbicides. Since male circumcision is a surgical procedure, it is important that it be performed in appropriate, sterile settings, by a qualified person. The following websites have information on the trials, as well as on the use of male circumcision as a prevention method: WHO statement www.who.int/mediacentre/news/statements/2006/s18/en/ NIAID Q&A and press release www3.niaid.nih.gov/news/QA/AMC12_QA.htm www3.niaid.nih.gov/news/newsreleases/2006/AMC12_06press.htm WHAT'S NEW 03/08/2012 Framework Document - New HIV Prevention Technologies: Regulatory, Policy, Programming and Research Implications for Canada 02/29/2012 The Gathering of Spirits: Canadian Women, Trans People and Girls’ HIV Research Collaborative 02/27/2012 Call for Nominations: CAS 2012 Leadership Award (Individual Category) 02/14/2012 Women and Harm Reduction Webinar: Housing as Harm Reduction for At-risk Women 02/09/2012 Canadian AIDS Society Announces Reel Winners in the Fight Against HIV 02/01/2012 Get out and Do Something for World AIDS Day! 02/01/2012 Roll out the Red Carpet with the Canadian AIDS Society this World AIDS Day 01/27/2012 CRIMINAL SEX? WOMEN, HIV AND THE INJUSTICE OF THE LAW MEMBERS Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention: Update on the Halting of Trials. © Canadian AIDS Society. Published 09/24/2007. Updated 02/23/2011. Web. Retrieved 03/09/2012 from http://www.cdnaids.ca/malecircumcisionforhivpreventionupd S