<http://www.doctorshealthpress.com/?p=3897>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close

Exercise May Help Relieve Lower Back Pain THE LATEST HEALTH BREAKTHROUGHS FROM THE DOCTORS YOU CAN TRUST Home Health Newsletters Health Books Meet The Doctors About Us Contact Us Subscribe For Free A Technique for Relieving Back Pain Originally published on Thursday, July 14th, 2011 Exercise , Pain , Weight Loss by The Doctors Health Press Editorial Board for The Doctors Health Press Among all the health tips out there, getting some daily exercise ranks near the top. Exercise has been linked to improvements in a wide swath of health problems. It has been proven to reduce your risk of chronic disease and prolong your life. It will make you feel better, consistently. The latest revelation is a piece of health news that found exercise could help relieve lower back pain. Pain in the lower back is among the most common health complaints around. A new study found that physical exercise has a positive effect on the formation of cells in the intervertebral discs. The news was presented at the annual meeting of the International Society for the Study of the Lumbar Spine. The study’s results were based on rats that underwent treadmill exercise. They studied how many new cells in the intervertebral discs were formed in rats that had run on a treadmill for about one hour a day compared with those that had only moved freely around a cage. It shows that intervertebral discs can be positively affected by aerobic exercise, and that makes all the difference in low back pain. Pain in the lumbar spine is common and may be due to disc degeneration. This means disc cells no longer have normal function. Based on the new results, the research team intends to study whether the cells in degenerated discs respond as positively to exercise as they have now shown to do in normal discs. Exercise remains an important part of the treatment for back pain today. But there is limited knowledge about the specific effects that exercise have on the discs and how much exercise we need to achieve this. More studies are planned to establish whether exercise can prevent disc degeneration and thus prevent back pain — as well as to study the effects of exercise when back problems have already arisen. As it stands, get active to help prevent back pain, and reduce the effects of back pain you already have. Talk to your doctor or physiotherapist to find out what types and what level of exercise are appropriate for your situation. Tags: Alternative Pain Relief , How to Naturally Treat Pain , Natural Pain Relief , pain relief , pain relief techniques URGENT HEALTH WARNING FOODS YOU SHOULD 
    NEVER MIX WITH THESE POPULAR SUPPLEMENTS... There's something that you should know about the vitamins you're taking. Something that is so controversial and upsetting, that it could very well change the entire landscape of the vitamin industry. More importantly, it may also be affecting you personally if you're currently taking supplements. What you could be mixing with your vitamins might actually be making you sick. Dr. David Juan is regarded by many to be an authority on nutrition and supplements. He's been a practicing medical doctor for over 30 years. And when it comes to the dangerous interactions of foods, drugs and vitamins, he's got the qualifications to back up what he's talking about. And that's why he urgently needs to warn you about a new danger resulting from vitamin, food and drug interactions that have already harmed others... Click Here to See 
    The Foods You Should Never Mix With These Popular Supplements Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website CAPTCHA Code * TOP 12 BRAIN-BOOSTING SUPER FOODS! It will be like your mind has turned back the hands of time and it's yours FREE when you sign up to Doctors Health Press e-Bulletin with our compliments. First Name: Last Name: E-mail Address: We value your privacy. CRITICAL WARNING NUMBER SIX Something very big will happen in America within the next 180 days. It will be more devastating than the credit crisis of 2008. For most people, it will hit them like a brick wall. It will touch Americans harder and deeper than anything else we've seen since the Great Depression. Michael Lombardi feels so strongly about this, he's decided to present his " Critical Warning Number Six " in a new video presentation. Michael's new video is labeled controversial because most people will not like what he has to say...they will find it hard to believe until they see all the facts as Michael presents them. Watch Critical Warning Number Six Now Search for: Our Most Recent Posts Eat More of These to Boost Your Bone Health A Nutrient That Powers Your Brain How Your Dry Cleaning Could Be Harming You A Prediction for Heart Failure Could This Common Food Be the Skin Cancer  Miracle? Tags alternative health news alternative remedies Alzheimers Disease Antioxidants best health advice blood sugar Breast Cancer cancer prevention cancer risk cure diabetes diabetics help Diets general health advice general health news headaches healing foods health breakthroughs health secrets healthy foods Heart herbal cures herbal remedies how to prevent cancer inflammation joint pain liver Lungs memory natural foods natural health advice Natural Remedies osteoporosis pain relief prostate cancer supplements vitamin b vitamin C vitamin D vitamin E vitamins Top Health News • Opinions and Advice from the Doctors • Our Latest Health Advice • The Natural Health Philosophy • Our Views on Alternative Health and Healing • Foods That Cure Diseases • Natural Supplements: Which Ones Really Work? • The Complete Guide to Natural Foods • The Real Story on Herbal Remedies Health Advice and News Today's Free Health Letter Free Health Archive Database Sign Up For Free Health Letter Our Commitment to Your Privacy Sitemap Facebook Twitter Expert Doctors Advice Dr. Victor Marchione Dr. David Juan Dr. Richard Foxx Dr. Jeffrey Shapiro Dr. Mike Kessler Dr. Alwyn Wong Natural Health Resources Healing and Natural Foods Vitamins and Natural Supplements Homeopathy Traditional Chinese Medicine Alternative Cures Cures for Hidden Causes of Illness Natural Health Advice For: Arthritis Blood Pressure Cancer Cholesterol Colon Diabetes Heart Liver Memory Prostate Vision and Eyes Weight Loss Breakthrough Health Resources Natural Remedies Best Health Advice Health News Health Tips He