<http://wp.me/P1r4Q0-H>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Testimonials | The Back Care Center of Dumont, NJ The Back Care Center of Dumont, NJ Chiropractic, Spinal Decompression, Golf Fitness Instruction (Titleist Certified) Skip to content Home Services Kinesio Taping KST Massage Therapy Integrative Health and Performance Coaching How we practice integrative health Tests we may use Arthritis Lower Back Pain Sciatica Herniated Disc Neck Pain or Stiff Neck Headaches Spinal Decompression Golf Fitness Golf Fitness Exercises and Golf Drills Testimonials About Us Office Hours/Contact Us Privacy Policy Legal Blog Testimonials After a strenuous workout followed by a round of golf, I suddenly experienced severe back pain which radiated down my right leg- to the point that I could not walk. After an MRI and X-rays I was diagnosed with 3 conditions: spinal stenosis (a narrowing in the spine), a bulging disk and spondylolisthesis (a condition in which a vertebra in the lower part of the spine slips out of the proper position) – all at L4-L5. I received 3 epidural injections to alleviate the immediate inflammation, enabling me to walk, albeit with a cane and continued pain. I also began physical therapy. After a few months I was referred to a surgeon who felt that surgery was a lifestyle choice and that I would have a very positive result if the spinal cord was given more room and then fused with screws and a bone graft to stabilize the spondylolisthesis. The thought of back surgery scared me – there are many risks and no guarantees. And one risk of fusion is that it could stress the surrounding vertebrae – potentially requiring future operations. With this information I was determined to do all that I could to avoid surgery. I am so thankful that my friend referred me to Dr. Schwartz. I can gladly report that after several months of spinal decompression treatments and adjustments I was able to return to my active lifestyle of walking, hiking, skiing and golfing. I still see Dr. Schwartz on a weekly basis for maintenance treatments and he is proactive in recommending exercises to further improve my condition. Dr. Schwartz is very knowledgeable and caring. He truly wants his patients to be able to return to the activities they love. My advice to you is: invest the time in chiropractic treatments. I am so grateful that have I trusted Dr. Schwartz with my back and avoided surgery. I highly recommend him to you. Sincerely, - Jill I first injured my back in high school, many more years ago than I care to share, during a cheerleading competition. The injury, located in the upper part of my back, was a constant nagging pain throughout the years that followed. While uncomfortable, it was generally bearable, but when the ugly stress-monster began to rear its head (as it is wont to do), the pain grew to the point where I would be popping ibuprofen like it was my job. A colleague of mine told me about Dr. Schwartz and The Back Care Center when I one day mentioned to him that I was considering chopping my head off if I couldn’t get rid of the pain. He told me that he had seen Dr. Schwartz for a while, and that at the very least, he would be able to provide an alternative to self-decapitation. My colleague was right. Within a few months, I went from seeing Dr. Schwartz three times a week to once a week. Not only did the pain begin to subside, but Dr. Schwartz taught me important exercises and habits to strengthen weak muscles, which led to my pain. This aspect of treatment is key: Dr. Schwartz doesn’t necessarily treat the pain, he treats the cause of the pain, which is, in the long run, far more important. - Tabitha Fritz Thanks to a high school swimming injury, I’ve been seeing chiropractors for most of my life. But only one, Dr. Dave, was able to get me to the point where I could stop going regularly and just go in for the occasional tune-up. Now he adjusts me, and my wife, and my daughter, who he’s been adjusting since she was a baby. On the rare occasions that I’ve needed an adjustment while traveling far away from New Jersey, I get reminded why I’ve stayed with Dave for all these years: not all chiropractors are created equally. - Jeffrey Simons Share this: Email Facebook StumbleUpon Digg Reddit Print Theme: Coraline by Automattic Proudly powered by WordPress. Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, pl