
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 02:01:47 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.0g DAV/2 PHP/5.3.10 mod_qos/9.76
P3P: policyref="/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="NOI DSP COR LAW NID CURi"
X-Snard: Why are you looking here?
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
X-debug: 2, 2, 0, bot
Last-Modified: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 02:01:47 GMT
Expires: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 03:01:47 GMT
Cache-Control: private, max-age=3600
Content-Language: en-US
X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Westminster Acupuncturist - Acupuncturist Westminster, Carroll County, Maryland (MD) - Acupuncture Westminster The Acupuncturists Directory professional directories by Healthprofs.com Start > Maryland - MD > Carroll County > Westminster Broaden Your Search Carroll County Maryland - MD See Nearest Acupuncturist Chiropractor Dentist Dermatologist Homeopath Massage Therapist Medical Doctor Naturopath Nutritionist/Dietitian Physical Therapist Podiatrist Psychiatrist Therapist + All Acupuncturists in Westminster Sort by: Price | A-Z | Gender Acupuncturists: 1 to 3 of 3 matches Lili He LAc, OMD Acupuncturist "I was trained in China as a Traditional Chinese Doctor. After gradution, I started my practice at China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences in Beijing, where I was mentored by the topnotch Chinese doctors.I practiced both Chinese medicine,including acupuncture and ..." Office is near: Westminster , Maryland 21157 (410) 695-6790 See full profile Send email Sara Layton MAc, LAc Acupuncturist "Acupuncture has become for me a very beautiful profession through which I am able to ease people's suffering on any level, whether it is physical, emotional, mental, or spiritual. My life is about helping people's hearts to heal and their ..." Office is near: Westminster , Maryland 21157 (410) 929-4948 See full profile Send email Lynn P Breeding Acupuncturist "I Care deeply about helping people heal and feel well in life.
I specialize in Chronic fatigue and chronic Lyme disease treatment with both acupuncture and Chinese herbs.
I work well with stressed teenagers and adults experiencing anxiety, depression and insomnia. " Office is near: Westminster , Maryland 21157 (410) 497-6736 See full profile Send email Return to top Acupuncturists: 1 to 3 of 3 matches Go Live Now! Are you are a credentialed health professional such as an acupuncturist, chiropractor, dietitian, 
dermatologist, dentist, massage therapist, midwife, naturopath, pediatrician, physical therapist, 
osteopath, MD or similar? We invite you to include your profile in the Health 
Professionals Directory at HealthProfs.com (powered by Psychology Today). See the benefits of joining Acupuncturists Westminster: Quick tips Not enough Acupuncturists to choose from? Try expanding your search for Acupuncture in Westminster 
to a larger area (e.g. Carroll County , Maryland) or try one of our popular searches How to tell if Acupuncture 
is right for me? Westminster Acupuncturists have broad skills and are 
able to work with a wide range of symptoms. If you suffer from headaches, carpal tunnel syndrome, or back pain,
acupuncture may help where other treatments have failed. Acupuncture can
also help treat nausea, dental pain, menstrual cramps, tennis elbow,
fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, and asthma. Acupuncture can even help to
combat addiction. How to find an Acupuncturist
with specific treatment skills? If you're looking for a specialist  in Westminster , Maryland , try to refine your search
with our left nav bar. If at first you're unable to find 
an Acupuncture professional
 in Westminster with the specialty you are seeking (e.g. 
traditional Chinese acupuncture, five-element acupuncture or Japanese accupuncture), try expanding your search area to a wider area (e.g. Carroll County , or Maryland ) before refining your selection. You can also try contacting a Westminster Acupuncture
 professional to ask for a consultation or referral. What method of Acupuncture is right for me? When it comes to treatment methods, there's no "right way". 
Check out these treatment methods to see which 
is right for you.  For instance, cupping enables acupuncture without needles, auricular acupuncture
focuses on the ear, and trigger point acupuncture targets tight or
knotted muscles. How to use my insurance? Many Acupuncture professionals accept health insurance. 
Check to see if your
insurance is covered. Feel free to discuss this when you contact the Westminster Acupuncturist. Find nearby Acupuncturists , Chiropractors , Dentists , Dietitians , Dermatologists , Homeopaths , Massage Therapists , MD's , Naturopaths , Nutritionists , Podiatrists and Physical Therapists .  Or
visit the Treatment Guide or Therapy Directory © Copyright 1991-2012 Sussex Publishers, LLC © Copyright 2002-2012 Sussex Directori