
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 14:03:50 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Aloe Vera - Aloe vera - Viable Herbal Solutions - Viable Herbal Solutions Home Contact Us Wholesale Search Site Login View Shopping Cart Skip to Main Content » HEALTH BLENDS SINGLE HERBS COMBO HERBS FDA INFO ABOUT US FAQ REWARD POINTS March means St. Patrick’s Day , and most everybody loves to don some green finery and celebrate the event. Let’s celebrate with one of nature’s finest “green grasses” – BARLEY GRASS . Barley has been an exceptionally nourishing staple in the human diet for thousands of years, providing a powerhouse of essential vitamins, amino acids, minerals, antioxidants and many more nutrients that your body needs every single day. Reflecting its rich chlorophyll content , Barley Grass is a great support for digestive and immune system health and naturally healthy pH balance - as well as a natural “green” tonic to support healthy skin, hair and nails . Viable Herbal Solutions is offering Barley Grass at a special 15% discount to you for the entire month of MARCH, 2012. Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with nature’s finest green grass! Barley Grass is right here at your fingertips. Order yours now! My Cart You have 0 items in your cart Recently Viewed Acai Fruit Alfalfa Leaf Absinthe / Mugwort Alfalfa Leaf/Dandelion Root/Kelp Alfalfa Leaf 5:1 Newsletter Sign up for our newsletter: Subscribe The product Aloe Vera Leaf/Slippery Elm Bark/Barberry Root has been added to comparison list. The product Aloe Vera Leaf 200:1 has been added to comparison list. The product Absinthe / Mugwort has been added to comparison list. Home / Aloe Vera Leaf 200:1 Aloe Vera Leaf 200:1 SKU: S107 Email to a Friend Aloe Vera is a virtual necessity for minor emergencies. It is a healing plant used to treat sunburns, minor burns, scrapes, ulcers, arthritis and constipation. This herb has healing, soothing and cleansing properties making it an ideal addition to any medicine cabinet. Moreover, Aloe soothes the intestinal system, too. Aloe Vera has attracted the interest of modern physicians for its ability to heal radiation burns. Family: Liliaceae (lily) Botanical: Aloe vera (also known as Aloe barbadensis) Other Common Names: Aloe, Barbados Aloe, Curacao Aloe Item # S107: Aloe Vera Leaf 200:1 60 Capsules $21.87 Add to Cart 90 Capsules $29.52 Add to Cart 450 Capsules $110.69 Add to Cart 700 Capsules $160.51 Add to Cart 1150 Capsules $247.18 Add to Cart 1400 Capsules $276.84 Add to Cart 1/4 lb. Bulk $95.46 Add to Cart 1/2 lb. Bulk $190.91 Add to Cart 1 lb. Bulk $381.82 Add to Cart History and Uses: Aloe is a perennial succulent that is native to East and South Africa, and is cultivated in the West Indies and other tropical countries. Interestingly, Aloe is one of the easiest house plants to grow. The tissue in the center of the Aloe Leaf contains a gel which yields Aloe gel (or Aloe vera gel). The word Aloe is derived from the Arabic word, alloeh , which means shiny and bitter. One legend claims that Aloe was used to preserve the body of Jesus Christ, and references to its use as a healing agent can be found in early Egyptian, Chinese, Greek, Indian and Christian literature. One story says that it was the desire for Aloe plants that caused Alexander the Great to conquer the island of Socotra, where Aloe was cultivated. Aloe Vera Leaf is also thought to have been one of Cleopatra's beauty secrets. The Greeks and Romans used the gel for wounds. In Africa, hunters sometimes would rub Aloe juice on their bodies to reduce sweating and to mask human scent. In India, it has been used by herbalists to treat intestinal infections, suppressed menses and colic. Aloe Vera Leaf has been historically used for many of the same conditions for which it is still used today - particularly constipation and minor cuts and burns. Aloe Vera Leaf is also taken internally for stomach disorders, and dried Aloe latex, a substance derived from the leaf, is a strong laxative. When applied externally, Aloe Vera Leaf restores skin tissues and may aid the healing of burns and sores. It can also be used on blemishes and for dandruff, and when used cosmetically, Aloe Vera Leaf softens the skin. Modern doctors have also used Aloe Leaf for x-ray burns, sunburn, chemical burns, first degree burns, traumatized tissue, decibitus ulcers or bedsores, skin inflammation, stomach ulcers, herpes simplex, periodontal surgery, insect bites and stings, irritating plant stings and other minor skin manifestations. Topical applications have included this herb's inclusion in many over-the-counter lotions, poultices, salves, shampoos and sprays. It is said that Aloe Leaf has shown outstanding results in treating facial edema ( swelling ). When used as a mouth rinse, it is thought to be effective for cold spores and lockjaw. Two small controlled human trials have found that Aloe Vera Leaf, either alone or in combination with the oral hypoglycemic drug, glibenclamide , effectively lowers blood sugar in people with Type-2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes. Primary chemical characteristics of this herb include aloins, anthraquinones, barbaloin, polysaccharides and salicylic acids. Aloin, obtained from the gel in the leaf, are largely responsible for the plant's healing properties. The plant also contains the important antioxidant vitamins A, C, E, B1, B2, B3), beta-carotene, beta-sitosterol, lignins, saponins, calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, zinc and amino acids. Recommended Dosage: Take two (2) Capsules, one (1) time each day with water at a morning or mid-day mealtime. Contraindications: Pregnant or nursing mothers, children and the elderly should never take Aloe Vera internally, nor should people who take potassium-depleting drugs for high blood pressure. Aloe and prescription medications should be taken at different times. Allergic reactions, though rare, may occur in susceptible persons.Excessive use (many times the recommended dosage) may aggravate hemorrhoids. Capsule Information: Our Absinthe supplements are encapsulated in 100% Gluten-free, Vegetable Cellulose, Certified Kosher , size "00" Capsules. (click here for size comparison) Each capsule contains approximately 600 mgs. Special Note: Disclaimer: The information presented herein by Viable Herbal Solutions is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult with your own health care provider. Viable Herbal Solutions (866) 437-3122 8am - 5pm EST, M-F. Customer Service Shipping Policies Returns & Exchanges Privacy Policy Ordering Information Reward Program Viable Herbal About Us Help & Info FAQ - Questions My Account Follow Us Facebook Twitter StumbleUpon © Copyright 2010 Viable Herbal Solutions. All rights res