
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 14:46:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.justcarehealth.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

How to Get Rid Of Ear Wax  | Just Care Your Health Home About How to Get Rid Of Ear Wax Posted by EditorS in Thursday, March 12th 2009 Topics: Health Tips Tags: ear , ear wax , get rid of , get rid of ear wax Ear wax is manufactured by ear glands. It’s a yellowish-brown semi solid substance. It protects the ear from dust; insects’ etc, but extreme ear wax also reduces your hearing ability. It even causes an itching in the ear, so you need to clean your ear. Several methods have been recommended, but olive oil method is the safest process to clean your ear wax. Requirement for cleaning: •    Rubber syringe •    Olive oil, •    Dropper (may be eye dropper) •    Dry towel Method to follow: •    At the bearable temperature heat the olive oil. •    Now take a dropper & pour the oil into the dropper. •    Softly pull the ear a little bit and drop the oil (two- three drops) & don’t forget to tilt your head gently. •    This will allow losing the wax while the oil passes through the ear. •    Now take a bulb rubber syringe & fill with tap water. Be careful that the water is not much cold, otherwise it will activate the pain. So temperature of the water should be favourable for the ear. •    Pull your ear up & tilt your head downward. •    At the entrance of the outside duct of the ear place the bulb syringe. •    Gently spray the water in the ear duct. Never put pressure while spraying water. •    Through this process ear wax will be eliminated from the ear duct. If nothing coming out, then perform the same method again. •    After the cleaning process you need to dry the ear, you can use alcohol or dry towel for this purpose. •    Apply the few drops of alcohol & remember to tilt your head while you pour the alcohol. Again tilt the head in other direction after a few minutes release or draw off the alcohol. Our Sponsors Related Articles Dark Circles! It’s not a Big Problem Reduce your Weight by Using Easy and Simple Remedies Tips for Relaxing Mind and Body Some Home Remedies for Body Pain Fish Oil: Secret of good and Healthy Life Leave Your Reply Here Username *required email *required website Please note: all comments maybe under moderation so there is no need to submit your comment twice if comment not shown « Get Rid of Back Fat Upper Stomach Pain » Subscribes To Our Feeds Subscribes via rss readers Subscribes via emails what is rss? Our Sponsors Advertisments Contact Us To Advertise Here Search Featured Articles Few Tips to Mange Your Glucose Level in Body Diabetes make difficult to use the foods that you eat for source of energy. Some time the excessive Glucose is developed in the body. Excessive ...read more How can Get Rid from Diabetic If it is diagnose that you are suffering from diabetic don’t worry you are not alone because million of the people in the world are ...read more Diabetes - A detailed Analysis Diabetes is a chronic disease when the body cannot control the sugar level in blood. It is a medical disorder particularly, diabetes mellitus, means absolute ...read more Beauty Care Tips 10 Tips for Glowing and Baby-Soft Skin Amazing Facts about Allergies Top Spring/Summer Shoe Styles for 2012 Cool Health Tips Seven Foods for Your Health and Beauty Erection Dysfunction – Causes, Symptoms and Treatment Types of Skin Cancer Explained An Overview of Skin Cancer – Causes and Risk Factors Trojan Educates the Masses with New Campaign Health Articles 5 Best Tips for Wound Care Diabetes, Type 1 Diabetes and its Treatment Leukoplakia- Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment Deadliest Psychiatric Disorder – Anorexia 5 Fears for Women about Aging Recent Articles Trojan Condoms and ASHA Unite for Condom Sense United States Gets Better Premature Birth Rate Report Belushi and Savient Pharmaceuticals Take on Gout Problems Few Tips to Mange Your Glucose Level in Body IBD Campaign for 2011 ACEP Tackling Emergency Health Issues Sex Life and the Clues about Women’s Health 10 Ways to Get Rid of Hair Loss Susan Lucci is Educating Americans about Atrial Fibrilliation The Functioning of Fat Injections for Breast Reconstruction after Cancer Recent Comments Jhon in Belushi and Savient Pharmaceuticals Take on Gout Proble… Amir in Belushi and Savient Pharmaceuticals Take on Gout Proble… Anil in Susan Lucci is Educating Americans about Atrial Fibrill… Ackerley in Susan Lucci is Educating Americans about Atrial Fibrill… Pregnancy and Yoga Tips - Benefits … in Effects of Meditation and Yoga on Brain Pregnancy and yoga guides and tips in Effects of Meditation and Yoga on Brain Adnan in Crest Promotes Pro-Health System Abraham in Crest Promotes Pro-Health System Johan in Crest Promotes Pro-Health System St maicheal in Crest Promotes Pro-Health System Most Comments Crest Promotes Pro-Health System (5) Get Introduced to the New Body Shaper for Women - Shatobu Inner Wear (3) Stopping Food Waste for the Benefit of the Environment (2) Effects of Meditation and Yoga on Brain (2) Susan Lucci is Educating Americans about Atrial Fibrilliation (2) Belushi and Savient Pharmaceuticals Take on Gout Problems (2) Two Breast Cancer Screening Plans Successfully Operated (1) Popular Tags anxiety benefits Breast Cancer causes Depression Diabetes diet effects exercise Fitness Flu foods good for health good for your health health benefits healthy food healthy life healthy preparation heart herbs home remedies miscarriage obesity pain remedies skin Skin care teeth tips useful tips Categories Health News (18) Health Guides (35) Diseases and Conditions (15) Depression (2) Flu (1) Diabetes (3) Cancer (2) Health Articles (51) Cardiology (4) Fitness (14) Herbs (3) Health Tips (39) Parenting Guide (2) Healthy Diets and Recipes (14) Women Health (14) Pregnancy (8) Health Care (34) Eye Care (3) Hair Care (3) Skin Care (6) Dental Care (1) Child Care (1) Archives February 2012 (1) November 2011 (2) October 2011 (2) September 2011 (2) August 2011 (3) May 2011 (1) April 2011 (1) March 2011 (1) February 2011 (6) January 2011 (3) November 2010 (6) October 2010 (6) Pages About Links Beauty Care Tips Cool Health Tips Health Articles Health Guides Health Tips Meta Log in Valid XHTML Valid CSS WordPress ©2007-2012 Just Care Your Health Privacy Policy | Privacy Statements