
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache
Content-Type: text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 20:34:24 GMT
Connection: close

Should all Indian men be circumcised? : Health - MensHealth A A A X INDIA TODAY GROUP : InToday | India Today | Aaj Tak | Headlines Today | Business Today |
    Men's Health   | Wonder Woman | Cosmopolitan | Oye! 104.8FM Home | Health | Fitness | Nutrition | Weight Loss | Sex & Relationship | Fashion | Advisory | Cover Stories | Etcetera | Personal Trainer+ Newsletter | Feedback | Subscription | Latest Issue | Archive Home » March 2009 » Health » Story Should all Indian men be circumcised? By Charles Hirshberg Get social Utilities The day your wife gives birth to a baby boy, the kind, bespectacled face of Marvin L Wang, MD, is the one that you want to see coming through the recovery-room door. Codirector of newborn nurseries at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Dr Wang has a perky, conversational bedside manner that puts everyone at ease. You have to hustle to keep up with him as he strides energetically between hospital rooms. At this point, he's congratulating a pair of new parents. Pulkit is standing on wobbly legs, looking ecstatic and shellshocked, while Nishtha sits serenely, holding their newborn son to her breast. Dr Wang jokes with the new parents a bit and then says, "I understand you may want to have a circumcision for your baby." Pulkit and Nishtha don't answer immediately. At last, Pulkit says, "Well... we don't know." Dr Wang smiles. He's familiar with the befuddled expression on Pulkit's face. Circumcision, of course, is the surgical removal of the penile foreskin from the glans-the fleshy crown of the penis. It is one of the most commonly performed procedures in the US hospitals, and except for abortion, it may be the most controversial. The procedure has long been known to reduce the spread of a few rare, serious diseases, and to prevent a few annoying, uncomfortable ones. In India, where one has to keep religious and cultural sensibilities in mind, male circumcision is normally advised for classical STIs and doctors are yet to see volunteers who want circumcision to protect themselves against HIV. Two years ago, a consortium of experts convened by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNAIDS (the United Nations' HIV/AIDS programme) announced that circumcision should indeed "be part of a comprehensive HIV prevention package." It did so after three meticulous medical trials in Kenya, Uganda, and South Africa involving over 10,000 men had proved that circumcision could reduce the risk of femaleto-male HIV infection by nearly 60 per cent. This discovery, over the next two decades, could save three million lives in Africa alone. No one believes that the potential health benefits for Indian (or American, for that matter) males are nearly as great, and urgent, as they're for men in Africa. In the US, a team of researchers from the CDC, Johns Hopkins, and the Baltimore health department examined the records of over 1,000 African American males who tested positive for HIV/AIDS. Uncircumcised men were 50 per cent more likely to be infected. These results have caused many doctors to reconsider their positions. "I've always told families that the health benefits of circumcision are real, but not enough to warrant advocating that all boys be circumcised," says Lise Johnson, MD, the director of healthy-newborn nurseries at Boston's Brigham and Women's Hospital. "But the weight of scientific evidence might be shifting in favour of circumcision." "Circumcision helps protect against HIV substantially, as it removes cells under the foreskin that are vulnerable to the virus. When the foreskin is removed, the skin on the head of penis becomes less sensitive and therefore less likely to bleed, reducing the risk of infection," says Dr Sudhakar Krishnamurti, a Hyderabad-based andrologist and a member of the International Society of Sexual Medicine (ISSM) for a project on male circumcision. Pulkit, the new dad, is circumcised himself but never thought much about circumcision until his wife became pregnant. "Nishtha kept saying, 'It's up to you,'" Pulkit tells Dr Wang, "but when I finally said I wanted to do it, she said, 'Whoa! We have to talk.'" After a few uneasy moments, the new father's feelings spill out. "I guess I don't feel too strongly either way," he says, looking at his son tenderly. "But if there's a risk of hurting him..." Pain, of course, is the first question that comes to mind whenever the words cut and penis are used. Dr Wang says the operation rarely hurts much anymore; since the 1990s, it's become routine to anaesthetise babies before the procedure. "In adults, it is performed by surgeons and involves a bloody and painful procedure," says Dr Krishnamurti. According to the AAP, circumcised boys have a lower risk of urinary-tract infections and penile cancer, and "a lower risk of getting STIs, including HIV." "I recommend patients wear lungis and avoid sex till the healing is complete," says Mumbai-based andrologist Dr Rajan Bhonsle. Pulkit seems to search the doctor's face for a hint of what to do, but Dr Wang is neutral. "You need time to think about it," he says. Circumcised or not, every man owes his foreskin a great debt of gratitude for its service in the womb. In the third month of gestation, when the nascent penis begins to bloom, the foreskin forms a little protective blanket under which the rest of the penis can safely grow. But once you and your penis are fully baked, the advantage of a foreskin is not clear. Some scientists speculate that it protected the prehistoric penis as it swung, naked, through thick forests and over tall grasses; and unless you take your penis on that sort of excursion, the scientists argue, you don't need a foreskin. Archaeological evidence suggests that circumcision may be at least 6,000 years old. Muslims and Jews, along with the aborigines of Australia, the Aztecs and Mayans of this hemisphere, and many other cultures all adopted this squirm-inducing practice, and it seems unlikely they'd have done so unless they were convinced that it conferred some earthly benefit. Arguments for and against circumcision YES "Indian men can go for circumcision. Many patients come to me asking for it, for reasons including HIV/AIDS prophylaxis, or whatever. These guys are the best behaved. No fuss. Fast and smooth recovery. Early rehab (sexual)." - Dr Sudhakar Krishnamurti NO "There's no substantive study anywhere in the world, that can prove circumcision does in fact reduce the risk of contracting HIV/AIDS. The World Health 0rganisation data alone cannot be made a ground for all Indian men to go for a circumcision procedure." - Dr Rajan Bhonsle An Indian doctor shows the way A new device, designed by andrologist Dr Sudhakar Krishnamurti, consists of lightweight metal or high-grade polymer in the form of two concentric cylinders. These carry at their respective ends two consecutive rings for placement on the inner and outer layers of the foreskin, respectively. "Thermal, laser or electrical energy is then applied to these two layers through the respective concentric rings in order to seal blood vessels and to cut the two layers of the skin neatly," he says. The device is then removed with the circumcised skin. This technique has been accepted by world bodies and can be implemented in sub-Saharan countries, where HIV/AIDS has taken on epidemic proportions. 1 2 Next » Body Mass Index (BMI) is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to both men and women. BMI Calculator Balance to burn fat Marathon man with a plan Sleep what you sow Win the deadline game More » Audio Video Photo Ask the Cosmo girls Cosmo girls Payal Puri and Nandini Bhalla help you wise up on girls. They tell you how to figure out whether your current girlfriend is Ms Right or your future ex-wife. Vijender Singh shoots for Mens Health Ace boxer Vijender Singh talks about his win at the World Championship while shooting for Men's Health magazine. More What women want! We dig deeper into the psyches of women and came out startled at the revelations. More ADVERTISEMENT In MH's coverage of Fashion, Style and Grooming, what appeals to you the most? Celebrities on the cover and in the features How-to-look-good Grooming Advice Elaborate fashion shoots Practical style tips Do you understand women? Before you say no take our test. More » Who should you take home to Mom? One of these healthy ladies, or the woman in your life? More » ABOUT
      US | CONTACT
      US | ADVERTISE WITH US | SUBSCRIPTION | WE CARE | PRIVACY
      POLICY Copyright © 2012 Living 