
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 19:14:06 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 16:54:00 GMT
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
X-Server-Name: web4c D=17190
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Language: en

Pelvic Floor Exercises  - Conceive Online Close Member Login Invalid username or password. Username Password Incorrect Login. Please try again. Forgot Username or Password? not a member? sign-up now! register Conceive Online welcome! sign in or register Join us on: twitter facebook rss Search Search this site: infertility Medical Conditions Male Issues Seeing a Specialist Fertility Drugs Assisted Reproduction/IVF Third Party Reproduction Adoption Infertility Q&A diagnosis guide A B C See All alternatives Asian Bodywork Traditional Chinese Medicine Fertility Spas and Retreats support Professional Resource Directory Baby or Bust The Must-Read Moms (To Be) Pregnancy Envy How to Boost Your Fertility and Adoption Benefits tools BMI Calculator Ovulation Calculator email | print | share | 0 comments Pelvic Floor Exercises By Shari Sims | Nov 15, 2009 Share You can’t see your pelvic floor muscles, and exercising them won’t lead to flat abs or toned thighs. But getting these muscles in shape can improve your sex life and be one of the best things you can do to prepare your body for pregnancy and beyond. There is a group of muscles that helps prepare the body for pregnancy, contributes to sexual health and pleasure, and ensures a woman’s physical well-being throughout her life. Yet chances are not even the fittest among us “work” these muscles regularly. However, it may be that building up the pelvic floor, like building up bone strength, should start as early in a woman’s life as possible. “We teach young women about sexual health, but we don’t educate ourselves about the muscles involved in pregnancy and childbirth,” says Missy Lavender, who founded the Women’s Health Foundation in Chicago in 2004 to do just that, after developing exercise-induced incontinence following the birth of two children two years apart. “I ended up requiring surgery for a full pelvic restoration in my forties because my muscles had become so lax,” says Lavender. “I was in top shape before I got pregnant; I was an avid runner, lifted weights, worked out regularly, but not a single instructor or doctor had ever mentioned the pelvic floor.” “The sling of muscles that connects the pubic and tail bones—called the pelvic floor—not only holds a woman’s sexual organs in place, but helps prevent urinary incontinence and plays a role in virtually every move a woman makes,” says Sheila Dugan, M.D., of Rush Medical College in Chicago. This muscle group, called the levator ani, “helps support the movements of the spine and legs as a woman walks, runs, or jumps. “The pelvic floor is equally important during childbirth as it is in training for a marathon,” Dr. Dugan reported at the 2009 Health & Fitness Summit sponsored by the American College of Sports Medicine. These “trampoline-like” muscles work in concert with the “core” muscles of the trunk to help hold up the body during strenuous activity, including carrying around the weight of a developing baby during pregnancy; at childbirth, they stretch from their pre-pregnancy teacup size to the circumference of the baby’s head. But surprisingly, Dr. Dugan noted, pelvic floor exercises are overlooked in the vast majority of fitness programs. While many women are familiar with so-called “Kegels,” which involve “holding in” an imaginary urine flow, there’s a lot more that can be done to prevent laxity in this muscle group, helping to prevent exercise- and stress-induced incontinence that often develops after childbirth, even in young, fit women. A strong pelvic floor can also contribute to continuing sexual pleasure at every age, suggests a study published in the journal Obstetrics and Gynecology in 2008. While some muscle groups seem to have garnered cult status lately, such as the transverse abdominals and the obliques, the all-important levators are hardly ever mentioned, even in those exercise regimens that feature movements that can actually work this muscle area, such as the muscle co-contractions done in Pilates and yoga. It’s never too late—or too soon—to reap the benefits of these exercises. One fitness specialist who is trained in the Women’s Health Foundation’s Total Control Pelvic Pyramid workout feels that it has made as big a difference in her own life as it did for her students. Stacy Hansen, health and wellness director of the YMCA of Metropolitan Denver, mainly taught “boot camp” and cycling classes before becoming involved with the Total Control workout through the national Y several years ago. The workouts, targeted to women suffering with incontinence issues, had an unexpectedly personal impact on Hansen. “When I began teaching the classes, I was planning to get pregnant and heard that most of the younger women had come to the class to deal with post-pregnancy incontinence,” she says. “I tried to stick with the pelvic floor exercises not just during my pregnancy but right after delivery. And I think I was able to get back into my own personal program of cycling, along with my teaching and doing personal training, much faster as a result. Plus, I really learned a lot about female anatomy that just isn’t focused on in any other fitness context.” Daily Dose It’s never too early—or too late—to start toning the pelvic floor muscles. Dr. Dugan suggests the following four exercises that can (and ideally should) be done daily to help keep these muscles in shape. Breathe Practice deep breathing, pulling your diaphragm muscles inward and letting the pelvic floor muscles “drop away” from the body. Try to spend at least five minutes breathing this way each day. (Bonus: It’s a great stress-reliever.) Stretch Lie on your back with the bottoms of your feet together and knees dropped to each side, relaxing both the groin and pelvic floor muscles. Hold for five minutes. If the stretch feels too intense, place a small pillow under each knee. Tighten Lie on your back, legs out straight, and try to smoothly draw your lower belly muscles in for a count of five, then slowly release. Repeat 10 times. “Try to do this move several times a day if time permits,” Dr. Dugan urges. Lift Lie on your back and lift the pelvic muscles (but not the pelvis) in and up for a count of five, then slowly lower for a count of five. This is similar to a Kegel move, mimicking the action taken when stopping urine mid-stream, but is not recommended while urinating. A version of this article originally appeared in the Fall 2009 issue of Conceive Magazine. Related Topics: Boost Your Fertility ; Fertility Health ; Fertility Nutrition ; Fertility Threats ; Stress and Fertility Article Pager It's Kitchen Time: Recipes from Cooking to Conceive Do women make new eggs every cycle? Reader Faves The Conceive Conversation: Infertility Expert Dr. Robert Greene A best-selling author and leading reproductive endocrinologist advocates for the one test every woman who wants to conceive should have. What to Expect From Your First Visit to a Fertility Clinic Eileen Garvin of Susanville, California, became a client of a fertility clinic the way most women do—she was referred there by her ob/gyn. Seven Most Common Miscarriage Causes A few months after my first child was born, I wanted to be pregnant again—as soon as possible. I wanted my children to be close in age, the closer... Generous Donations: Egg Donors and Surrogates When a couple is having trouble conceiving or carrying a pregnancy, sometimes a “third party” is enlisted to help. These women—egg donors and surrogates—are giving one of the greatest gifts of all. Find out why they do it. Newsletter Sign-up GET OUR NEWSLETTER Sign-up to receive daily updates, news, tips, and more! Email: * Postal code: * facebook twitter rss Most Popular Generous Donations: Egg Donors and Surrogates The 7 Most Common Fertility Drugs Infertility: Dealing With the Diagnosis Quick Poll Who is your biggest support?: My partner/spouse My BFF My sibling My mom or dad (or both parents) Someone else Latest Tweets + See more tweets Displaying 1 - 5 of 15 stories Pregnancy Envy You’ve only been trying for a few months, but you’re already starting to get annoyed rather than excited when you see a pregnant woman. Or you’ve been trying a lot longer. . . and you can’t even bear to look. Here’s how to get over it until it’s your turn. What to Expect From Your First Visit to a Fertility Clinic Eileen Garvin of Susanville, California, became a client of a fertility clinic the way most women do—she was referred there by her ob/gyn. Negotiating Time Off for Fertility Treatments and Adoption Everyone knows about maternity leave, but sometimes women need to take time off before a baby arrives. If you’re having fertility treatments or trying to adopt, here’s what you should know to get the time off you need.           

Whether—and when—to tell your boss that you’re undergoing fertility treatments or arranging an adoption depends a lot on your relationship with your supervisor. While most workplace experts caution against revealing too much personal information, how do you explain being late for work because of blood tests and ultrasounds, and then needing to get home for hormone injections? Or what if you must travel abroad to bring home a baby, and then want three months to bond with your adopted child? How to Choose a Fertility Center In an effort to attract patients and compete against the more-than 400 fertility centers providing IVF nationwide, fertility clinics today routinely... IVF 101: In Vitro Fertilization Explained As kids, we all learned about the birds and the bees. But we probably didn’t learn enough about fertility to know how babies can be conceived when nature doesn’t work perfectly. Generous Donations: Egg Donors and Surrogates When a couple is having trouble conceiving or carrying a pregnancy, sometimes a “third party” is enlisted to help. These women—egg donors and surrogates—are giving one of the greatest gifts of all. Find out why they do it. The 7 Most Common Fertility Drugs By now you’ve probably heard of Clomid, the most commonly-used fertility drug in the United States. But do you really know how it works and what the possible side effects can be? If fertility drugs are your next step in the attempt to get pregnant, then here is a quick rundown of the seven medications your doctor is most likely to prescribe. Infertility: Dealing With the Diagnosis No one wants to hear a doctor utter the dreaded word “infertility.” But couples can use the diagnosis as an opportunity to learn the skills they... Super Footer Infertility Medical Conditions Male Issues Seeing a Specialist Fertility Drugs Assisted Reproduction 3rd Party Reproduction Adoption Infertility Q&A Diagnosis Guide A B C See All Alternatives Massage Asian Bodywork Traditional Medicine Mind-Body Techniques Fertility Spas And Retreats Support Professional Resource Guide The Must-Read Moms (To Be) Pregnancy Envy Tools Ovulation Calculator BMI Calculator All Tools Site Map | Contact Us | Forums | Media Kit | Reprints & Permissions | RSS Feeds | Newsletter Sign-Up | Careers Copyright © 2011 Conceive. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. Visit Our Sister Sites Enthusiast -- Kiteboarding -- SKI -- Skiing -- Scuba Diving -- Sport Diver -- TransWorld Ride BMX -- TransWorld Business -- TransWorld Motocross -- Transworld SKATEboarding -- Transworld SNOWboarding -- Transworld SURF -- Wakeboarding -- WaterSki -- Warren Miller Entertainment -- WindSurfing Travel -- Caribbean Travel + Life -- Destination Weddings & Honeymoon -- Islands -- Resorts & Great Hotels Lifestyle & Shelter -- Florida Travel + Life -- Garden Design Luxury -- SNOW -- Spa Marine -- Boating -- Cruising World -- Fly Fishing in Salt Waters -- Flying -- Power Cruising -- Marlin -- Motor Boating -- Sailing World -- Salt Water Sportsman -- Sport Fishing -- Yachting -- NewBoats.com -- UsedBoats.com -- YachtBroker.com Outdoor -- Field & Stream -- Outdoor Life -- SHOT Business Parenting -- Babytalk -- Parenting -- Conceive Science -- Popular Science -- Science Illustrated -- Sound + Vision -- Popular Photography Saveur -- Saveur Working Mother -- Working Mother Entertainment / Events