
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 17:50:55 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Ua-Compatible: IE=8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Sealants - Laurich Dentistry - Dentist in Livonia, MI Home Our Dental Team Office Services New Patients Contact Us Patient Education Reviews Patient Education Livonia Dental Patient Information Our team of dental specialists and staff strive to improve the overall health of our patients by focusing on preventing, diagnosing and treating conditions associated with your teeth and gums. Please use our dental library to learn more about dental problems and treatments available. If you have questions or need to schedule a dental appointment , contact Laurich Dentistry. The pits and grooves of your teeth are prime areas for opportunistic decay. Even regular brushing sometimes misses some of these intricate structures on the chewing surfaces of your teeth. Enter sealants, which are thin coatings applied to the chewing surfaces designed to prevent the intrusion of bacteria and other debris into the deep crevices on the tops of your teeth. Sealants actually were developed about 50 years ago, but didn't become commonly used until the 1970s. Today, sealants are becoming widely popular and effective; young children are great candidates for preventative measures like sealants because in many cases, decay has not set in. Even on teeth where decay is present, sealants have been shown to fight additional damage. Sealants are applied by first cleaning the tooth surface. The procedure is followed by "etching" the tooth with an abrasive substance, which allows the sealant to better adhere. After the sealant is applied, a warm light source is directed to the site to promote faster drying. Sealants usually need re-application every five to 10 years. Dentist - Livonia 18618 Middlebelt Road Livonia, MI 48152 (248) 476-1960 What is Cosmetic Dentistry? Cosmetic Procedures Invisalign® Cosmetic Fillings Bonding Cosmetic Contouring Crowns and Bridges Crown Lengthening Bridges Specialty Dentures Excessive or Uneven Gums Ridge Augmentation Grafts Replacement of Lost Gum Tissue Implants Smoking and Implants Veneers Oral Health Topics Introduction Fluoride The Preventive Program Fillings Infection Control Medication and Heart Disease Latex Allergy Age and Oral Health Tobacco Oral Piercing Tooth Care What is Tooth Decay? Brushing Flossing Fluoride Facts Mouth Rinses Sealants X-Rays Denture Care Emergency Care Prevention Tips for Children Women and Tooth Care Seniors and Oral Health Nutrition and Your Teeth Dental Problems Abscessed Tooth Bad Breath (halitosis) Bulimia Nervosa Canker/Cold Sores Cavities and Tooth Decay Toothaches Diabetes Dry Mouth Fluorosis Gum Disease (Gingivitis) Impacted/Wisdom Teeth Lacerations and Cuts Oral Cancer Plaque Sensitive Teeth Teeth Grinding (Bruxism) Jaw Disorders Treatment Braces (Orthodontia) Sealants Missing Teeth Bridges Crowns Root Canal Therapy Extractions Scaling and Root Planing Flap Surgery Dentures Jaw/TMJ Maxillofacial Surgery Cosmetic Dentistry Veneers Teeth Whitening Bleaching Chipped, Cracked, and Worn Teeth Implants Grafts Old and Unsightly Fillings Bonding Excessive or Uneven Gums Ridge Augmentation Pain Management Overview Managing Pain Anesthesia Air Abrasion Medications Patient Information Your First Dental Visit Dental Emergencies Your Rights as a Patient Product Reviews Oral Health Products Choosing a Toothbrush Types of Floss Water Picks Mouth Guards Glossary Links Dental - Livonia, Dennis Laurich, DDS , Livonia MI, 48152 (248) 476-1960 Home Our Dental Team Office Services New Patients Patient Education Contact Us Appointment Request