
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 08 Apr 2012 23:09:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
X-Pingback: http://www.subrecord.org/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Vaginal | Women Health Center Women Health Center Search for: Home Posts Tagged ‘Vaginal’ « Older Entries Vaginal discharge Causes and Symptoms and Tips To help prevent and treat vaginal discharge November 2nd, 2011 Leucorrhoea is commonly known as “white discharge.” Ayurveda refers leucorrhoea to Swetpradra. The word means excessive white discharge. It is believed to be caused by aggravation or vitiation of Kapha Dosha. This commonly occurs in patients who are weak, emaciated, and anemic. Most women experience a certain amount of vaginal secretion, which is the body’s natural way of cleansing, lubrication, and guarding the vagina against the infections. Read more on Leucorrhea Herbal Remedy and Irregular Menstruation Treatment and also visit on Menopause Treatment Tips To help prevent and treat vaginal discharge: 1.    Keep your genital area clean and dry. 2.    Do not douche. While many women feel cleaner if they douche after menstruation or intercourse, it may actually worsen vaginal discharge because it removes healthy bacteria lining the vagina that are there to protect you from infection. It can also lead to infection in the uterus and fallopian tubes, and is never recommended. 3.    Use an over-the-counter yeast infection treatment cream or vaginal suppository, IF you know that you have a yeast infection. 4.    Eat yogurt with live cultures or take Lactobacillus acidophilus tablets when you are on antibiotics to avoid a yeast infection. 5.    Use condoms to avoid catching or spreading sexually transmitted diseases. 6.    Avoid using feminine hygiene sprays, fragrances, or powders in the genital area. 7.    Avoid wearing extremely tight-fitting pants or shorts, which may cause irritation. 8.    Wear cotton underwear or cotton-crotch pantyhose. Avoid underwear made of silk or nylon, because these materials are not very absorbent and restrict air flow. This can increase sweating in the genital area, which can cause irritation. 9.    Use pads and not tampons. 10.    Keep your blood sugar levels under good control if you have diabetes. Infections are treated with antibiotics. Often just one dose of antibiotics by mouth is enough. Alternatively, you may use vaginal cream forms of antibiotics, especially if you have significant side effects from taking antibiotics by mouth. Also, the vaginal cream can be more soothing for the inflamed, sore vaginal lining. If you are diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis or trichomoniasis, you may be prescribed an antibiotic called metronidazole (Flagyl). If your doctor suspects you have a sexually transmitted disease based on your history and physical exam, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics administered by injection and by mouth in the office before the tests results can confirm the diagnosis. Read more on http://www.herbalcureindia.com If you have recurrent yeast infections and recognize the symptoms, you may use over-the-counter antifungal creams first without a prescription. If your symptoms do not improve, you should see your health-care provider for an exam to confirm the diagnosis and make a change in treatment. Atrophic vaginitis (inflammation of the vagina) may develop with hormonal changes, for example, after pregnancy or while on birth-control pills. More commonly, it occurs during or after menopause. After menopause, hormone-replacement therapy may be administered by mouth or vaginally. Vaginal administration exposes you to lower levels of hormones. For mild cases, using a water-based lubricant may be enough. If you take birth-control pills, changing the type or strength of pill may help to get rid of atrophic vaginitis. Sexual partners do not have to be treated unless you are diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease, or you experience recurrent infections and no other factor is making you prone to infection. If your sexual partner experiences a new discharge or discomfort when urinating or during intercourse, he or she should be evaluated by a health-care provider. Comments Off » Posted in Uncategorized Tags: Causes Discharge help Prevent Symptoms tips Treat Vaginal Vaginal Infections – How to Know If You Have Bacterial Vaginosis October 11th, 2011 Bacterial vaginosis or vaginitis is a mild infection of the vagina that is brought about by an imbalance in the naturally-occurring bacteria that is present in the vagina. Just like any other form of infection, bacterial vaginosis is bound to leave some tell-tale symptoms on the body. An infection is commonly characterized by any of the following: localized redness, heat, pain, or even swelling. Cured Your Bacterial Vaginosis in 3 days the Natural Way Infections may also result in the production of pus, a whitish-yellow, yellow, or yellow-brown substance which is often characterized by a foul odor. In the case of bacterial vaginosis, what comes out form the vagina is not pus, but a peculiar discharge, often accompanied by an unpleasant, fishy odor. This discharge may either be colored or clear, and may be either watery or viscous in consistency. This may very well be an indication that you may have bacterial vaginosis. Not all cases of bacterial vaginosis, however, manifest this distinctive fishy odor or vaginal discharge. Other women suffering from bacterial vaginosis may complain of intense itching, swelling and irritation, and even severe cramp-like stomach pains. These may also be clear signs that you have bacterial vaginosis. Women who are generally infected by bacterial vaginosis have been observed to be the ones between 15 and 44, although some women well past menopause have also been reported to have been infected. Some studies seem to point to increased sexual activity or contact with new partners to be a trigger or even source of bacterial vaginosis, although there have no been conclusive data to back this speculation. Recent studies show that particularly susceptible to bacterial vaginosis are pregnant women and those who have had, or currently have sexually transmitted infections. Another possible vehicle of infection is transmission through homosexual encounters between women, that is, women who engage in sexual acts with other women. Studies are being done to confirm if indeed the sexual exchange of vaginal secretions is a viable source of infection. In younger women, bacterial vaginitis is attributed to improper hygiene, mainly by wiping after defecation, thereby contaminating the vagina with strep, or bacteria normally associated with the anus. Thongs and other forms of underwear that tend to cause abrasion and severe rubbing against the vagina and anus are also being looked at as a very likely source of contamination. Women suffering from bacterial vaginits are strongly advised to seek treatment as soon as possible, as untreated bacterial vaginitis may inflict serious complications on the body of the infected, and even make the person particularly susceptible to other forms of sexually transmitted diseases. Bacterial Vaginitis can be treated with antibiotics but these will kill of the vagina’s own good bacteria as well as the bad bacteria and will not stop the Bacterial Vaginitis coming back. You really need to get smart with your body and build you own bodies natural bacteria balance to help prevent bacterial vaginosis. This can be done with probiotic supplements such as Lactobacillus Acidophilus and natural yogurt containing live cultures amongst other things. After suffering with recurrent bacterial vaginitis (BV) for over 3 years I eventually found a totally natural cure that did not involve any antibiotics or creams. If you have bacterial vaginitis for the first time or have had recurrent bacterial vaginitis for some time this is something you really should consider looking at Bacterial Vaginosis Help Cured Your Bacterial Vaginosis in 3 days the Natural Way Comments Off » Posted in Uncategorized Tags: Bacterial Infections Know Vaginal Vaginosis 1 2 3 4 5 6 Recent Posts For any individual considering the rest medicine ambien negative effects are necessary to know. Simplifying Tai Cheng? High Curler On the internet Casino Person Rewards Sacramento Dentist Offering Emgergency Dental Encouraging the growth of your penis Good Choices for Your Health Medical Billing  in news reports, in search of good ways to find healthcare billing Kinds of Nike Dunks translate individuals brain via basketball shoes or boots to skatboarding Levitra Vardenafil – Helpful Medication For Impotence Erection Problems Due to Radiotherapy Is Usually Improved upon! Fast Ejaculation Medication Priligy Now on Sale – But Manages to do it Produce on Its Promise? How Does Propecia (Finasteride) Aid In The Treating Hair Loss? Nervousness, Insomnia and Tremors – Require Assistance Busting These Criminals? How to discuss Your Constant Discomfort With Your Physician Quicker Sleep problems Cure – Will Be Your Medical doctor Usually Suitable? Related Links Topics About Amenorrhea Bacterial Better Breast Breasts Cancer Care Causes Cure Cures Discharge Disorders during Dysfunction Female from Health Herbs Home Know Libido Mark Marks Menstruation Natural Naturally Pain pregnancy Prenatal Prevent Problems Remedies Sexual Stretch Symptoms tips Treat Treatment Treatments 