
Health Risks of Childhood Obesity - Bariatric and Metabolic Institute | UC San Diego Health System Explore other UCSD Health Sciences sites UC San Diego Health System UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center UC San Diego Sulpizio Cardiovascular Center UCSD School of Medicine Book an Appointment Free Seminar Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames. Bariatric and Metabolic Institute About Obesity BMI Calculator Weight Loss Treatments Gastric Banding/Lap Band Eligibility Your Motivation Who is a Candidate? Who is Not a Candidate FAQs Post-Operative Care Ongoing Motivation Exercise Guidelines Dietary Guidelines Adjustments Results Risks Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Bypass Revision Endoscopic Options Compare Weight Loss Surgery Options Adolescent Weight-Loss Program Health Risks of Childhood Obesity Measuring Adolescent Obesity Options Who is a Candidate? Non-Surgical Weight Management Program FAQ Our Program Online Seminar Meet Our Surgeons About the BMI Team Weight Loss Support Group Frequently Asked Questions Patient Stories Meet Lisa Skaggs Meet Pat Jordan Meet Seanna Hunter Meet Laura Gordan Meet Willie DePascale Meet Anneke Terpstra-Feller Meet Curtis Jones Meet David Berg Meet DeNeice Kenehan Meet Felix Zavala Meet Jamey Baker Meet Janice Rankin Meet Jason Benjamin Meet Larry Tupper Meet Pat Woods News & Research Contact Us Insurance Coverage Locations & Directions Bariatric and Metabolic Institute / Weight Loss Treatments / Adolescent Weight-Loss Program / Health Risks of Childhood Obesity Share | Weight Loss Treatments Gastric Banding/Lap Band Eligibility Your Motivation Who is a Candidate? Who is Not a Candidate FAQs Post-Operative Care Ongoing Motivation Exercise Guidelines Dietary Guidelines Adjustments Results Risks Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Bypass Revision Endoscopic Options Compare Weight Loss Surgery Options Adolescent Weight-Loss Program Health Risks of Childhood Obesity Measuring Adolescent Obesity Options Who is a Candidate? Non-Surgical Weight Management Program FAQ What are the consequences of childhood obesity? Health risks now Childhood obesity can have a harmful effect on the body in a variety of ways. Obese children are more likely to have: High blood pressure and high cholesterol, which are risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). In one study, 70 percent of obese children had at least one CVD risk factor, and 39 percent had two or more. Increased risk of impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Breathing problems, such as sleep apnea, and asthma. Joint problems and musculoskeletal discomfort. Fatty liver disease, gallstones, and gastro-esophageal reflux (i.e., heartburn). Obese children and adolescents have a greater risk of social and psychological problems, such as discrimination and poor self-esteem, which can continue into adulthood. Health risks later Obese children are more likely to become obese adults. Adult obesity is associated with a number of serious health conditions including heart disease, diabetes, and some cancers. If children are overweight, obesity in adulthood is likely to be more severe. Medical weight management programs and bariatric surgery may be recommended to reverse these life-altering and life-threatening health conditions and to help your adolescent get started on the path to lifelong health. Part of UC San Diego Health System Department of Surgery UC San Diego Bariatric and Metabolic Institute View Office Locations 858-657-7000 Home About Obesity Attend a Seminar Weight Loss Surgery Our Program News & Research Patient Stories Contact Us Official Web Site of the University of California, San Diego. Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.