Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Treatments For Stress, Hypnosis For Stress Relief, Stress Relief Herbs The Best Treatments For Stress Pain And Stress Reduction The Natural Way There are many natural treatments for stress ranging from special herbs for anxiety and stress to aromatherapy for stress reduction. The most beneficial treatments I have found involve a combination of therapies. When I exercise, meditate, eat well and remember to breathe, life is inevitably better. But it's not always possible to maintain such a healthy existence! When you can't, consider at least incorporating some natural treatments for stress into your life. Facts About Vitamin B And Stress If you often feel stressed, it's worth knowing the facts about vitamin B. The B-vitamins are well known treatments for stress. They are the first nutrients the body calls on in times of emotional and physical tension. So if you're stressed often, you may actually have a B deficiency. There are many vitamin B deficiency symptoms, including fatigue and exhaustion, insomnia, frustration, irritability, indigestion and tingling finges and toes. To restore your B levels, focus on eating vitamin B rich foods like bananas, eggs, whole grains, dairy, meat and lentils. Brewer's yeast, used to make bread and beer is also an excellent source of Vitamin B. While food sources of vitamins are believed to be far more effective than supplements, if you do decide to take a supplement, take one everyday as Vitamin B is water soluble which means it isn't stored in the body. It is also recommended that you take it in liquid form which is more effective than capsules. Stress Relief Herbs There are many herbs known as treatments for stress. Often you can find stress formulas, a herbal mix containing some or many of the following: Lobelia : A physical relaxant used by the Native Americans. It is known for easing tension and panic Valerian : Most commonly used as a sleep aid, Valerian is used for restlessness and anxiety, and as a muscle relaxant. It is said to work best when used over several weeks. Chamomile : Contains nutrients that have a sedative calming effect. It also relieves indigestion and helps with sleep. Willow Bark : known for its pain relieving and anti-inflammatory properties, Willow Bark is particularly effective at relieving headaches St John's Wort : while most commonly known for its ability to fight depression, St John's wort is also often used to alleviate anxiety, stress and insomnia Aromatherapy For Stress Reduction Aromatherapy is one of the best known treatments for stress, although many underestimate its effectiveness. Aromatherapy is the practice of using plant oils with healing properties to promote psychological and physical well being. Plant oils come from leaves, flowers, seeds, fruit, roots and wood. In their concentrated form, they are known as essential oils. If you want to try aromatherapy for stress reduction, pick up a bottle of Lavendar, Bergamot, Clary Sage or Jasmine from your health food store. Apply it to your pillow, add some to your bath, or massage some into your pulse points. I also love to diffuse it in my bedroom to relax after a busy day. Hypnosis For Stress Relief Hypnosis used to be viewed as alternative but today has become one of the more popular treatments for stress. Some people rely on it to help stop stressful habits (like smoking or nail biting), while others use it to access a state of relaxation and calm. The trance-like state of deep relaxation that hypnosis is famous for, can be reached following guided audio programs or by seeing a hypnotherapist. Depending on your level of stress and need for stress relief, you may also opt to hypnotize yourself. Explore Positive Thinking Principles >Home >Manifest Money (5) >Percetion & Belief (7) >Your Success Plan (9) >Psychology (7) >Thinking & Stress (10) >Inspiring People (4) >Inspiring Quotes (7) >Affirmations Work (7) >Positivity Articles (13) Product News & Reviews >Six Minutes To Success >Holosync >Mind Movies >Shrink Yourself About Me And My Site >Contact Me >My Story >How I Built This Site >What's New! >Share My Site >Positive News Only >Free Newsletter >Sites I Recommend >Search Subscribe To This Site Return to top | Return From Treatments For Stress To The Homepage | Privacy Policy Copyright Positive-Thinking