Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Diet supplements  and cancer diet and cancer selenium zinc fish oils Dietary supplements Benefits and risks Home Treatments Lifestyle Symptoms Cancers Contents and links: Test your
        supplement needs | How to eat healthily | Vit A | Vit E | Vit C | Vit D | Calcium | Carotenoids | Zinc | Selenium | Interaction
        with chemotherapy | Phytoestrogens | Fish
        oils | Probiotics | Chondroitin | Glucosamine | Summary
        of risks | Summary of benefits | How
        to take supplements | Book - Lifestyle
        after Cancer | In
an ideal world a healthy, varied diet should not need supplementing with
additional pills tablets or potions. There are situation where selected
supplements may help especially after an illness but it is difficult to know
what or how many to take. This page discusses the issues of dietary supplements
in relation to cancer Although the concept of a quick fix supplement is attractive, as we all 
know, life is unfortunately not that simple, especially when considering the 
integrate genetic and constantly changing biochemical cancer pathways. The evidence Several environmental studies have shown a link between selenium, zinc and some
vitamin deficiencies and cancer. There have been some studies showing that
correcting a deficiency in a population reduces the risk of cancer. For example,
in China were the soil is very low in selenium, one village was given selenium
and another a placebo - after 4 years there was a significantly lower incidence
of liver cancer in the selenium village. In the west the evidence is more
conflicting difference in the  There may be other concerns about 
supplements compared to concentrating on whole healthy foods.  Some of the 
large trials have shown that upsetting the dietary balance of nature and taking 
too much of a good thing, may be harmful both in terms of cancer and other 
important illnesses such a heart disease and strokes. Although there is still 
much to learn from ongoing studies, I and many enthusiasts have considerable 
reservations that supplements, in some situation, could do more harm than good. Vitamin
A . Prostate
cancer cells and mice in the laboratory demonstrated an anti-cancer effect after
being fed with vitamin
A . However, in a study involving 10,472 U.S. men with an adequate diet, no reduction in prostate cancer incidence was
demonstrated in those given vitamin A supplements. In this regard they may well
be a waste of money and effort but the studies in which they are combined with
beta-carotene may have more sinister consequences – see below. Vitamin
E is thought to be linked to the cancer process mainly via an antioxidant effect.
The tocopherol forms have also been shown to prevent less aggressive tumours
changing to a more aggressive type. A study of vitamin A involving 30,000 male
smokers, found that there was reduction in the incidence of prostate cancer, but
the incidence of lung cancer was actually higher. Other studies showed that
smokers had lower vitamin E levels, but that this correlation was particularly
high with the isoform of vitamin E called gamma-tocopherol which is the main
vitamin E found in healthy foods, as opposed to the alpha-tocopherol found in
manmade supplements. A further study which supplemented women with alpha-tocopherol
demonstrated no reduction in cancer, but the incidence of heart disease was
slightly worse. Finally, another study of male smokers demonstrated a higher
rate of cerebral haemorrhage if they also had high blood pressure. Vitamin C helps DNA sense and repair the damage caused by free radicals, such as hydrogen
peroxide. Convincing experiments in
humans in relation to cancer have either not been conducted, or are
inconclusive. Studies using high dose vitamin C, particularly if given via a
vein (intravenous), caused kidney damage in some individuals. Vitamin
D in the form of calciferol fed to cancer cells and rats in the laboratory,
reduced cancer growth, progression and the formation of new blood vessels.
Humans with sub-optimal levels of vitamin D have been linked with a high risk of
cancer. Clinical studies of high dose calciferol, however, had to be abandoned
however because it dangerously increased serum calcium. Calcium supplements have been evaluated in two human studies at doses of between
1330-1840 mg/day, and showed no benefit or risk of cancer. Two other large
studies at doses >2000 mg/day from food and supplements, actually showed a
significantly higher rate of prostate cancer. Five of nine further questionnaire
surveys associated high intake of dairy food with an increased risk of prostate
and breast cancer, but interpretation of these was complicated by the fact that
high dairy consumption was associated with high fat intake. The detrimental
effect of excessive calcium is thought to lie in the finding that high dietary
calcium can reduce blood and cellular vitamin D levels. Calcium
and vitamin D supplements are very useful in the maintenance of bone density and
preventing osteoporosis. Bones are at risk following a number of cancer
therapies. The paragraph in the
‘cons’ section above, however, summarises the concerns with a high calcium
intake on its own. The reasons for the negative effects of calcium are likely to
be its associated with food of high fat content and its tendency to lower
vitamin D levels. Combining calcium
with vitamin D in a supplement will avoid these factors, and in theory may be
safe. Although confirmation of this theory in a clinical trial is required, it
provides some reassurance that it is likely to be safe and can be taken if bone
loss is a concern. Carotenoids These
natural pigments have an anti-oxidant effect and people with higher dietary
intake tend to have a lower rate of cancer. A substantial European study gave carotenoid supplements in the form of
alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) and beta carotene to individuals who were either
heavy smokers, or who had previously had cancer of the throat. The trial showed
an elevated risk of lung and prostate cancer! In
a laboratory experiment, rats fed with tomato powder, but not those fed with
pure lycopene, demonstrated a reduction of their tumour growth. Another large
human dietary prevention study combined beta-carotene with retinol (vitamin A).
People who started the trial with naturally low blood levels of beta-carotene
had lower levels of prostate cancer after years of supplementation. Those people
who had adequate blood levels at the start of the study ended up with a higher
risk of cancer, particularly prostate. This trial provides a clear take home
message, that correcting a natural or acquired deficit is beneficial, but too
much of a single anti-oxidant is harmful. Zinc is one of the metals needed to produce the superoxide dimutase (SOD) enzyme
important to defend the body against the attack of dangerous free radicals.
Laboratory experiments have shown that cells deficient in zinc are more likely
to become cancerous. The role of zinc supplements in humans was highlighted in a
study of 50,000 health professionals, 3348 of which developed prostate cancer.
Detailed analysis showed that men who took normal amounts of zinc had the normal
incidence of prostate cancer, but those who took supplemental zinc at levels of
more than 100mg/day, or for long durations, were more than twice as likely to
develop advanced prostate cancer. Selenium supplements An
eloquent trial,  gave 200 micrograms of dietary
selenium or placebo to large group of Americans. After several years, there was
a significantly lower level of lung, bowel and prostate cancer in the selenium
group. Several large ongoing prevention studies are now underway across the
world to try to confirm these findings, and fine-tune the optimal selenium dose
required. Many suspect, however, that the people who would benefit from selenium
supplements are those with a dietary deficiency in the first place. There is
also evidence from studies involving blood / hair samples and toenail clippings,
that many areas of the World have populations deficient in selenium, including
the UK , Central Europe and China , thought to arise from low indigenous soil levels. Phytoestrogen supplements. Although
foods containing phytoestrogens are generally healthy, concentrating oestrogenic
elements of food into a pill can be potentially hazardous. Although chapter 5
explains the lack of evidence for and against this, most cancer doctors would
discourage their patients from taking them. This is especially true for
individuals with tumours originating from the breast which can be stimulated to
grow by oestrogens. Supplement interaction with chemotherapy In
recent years it has become evident that some over the counter remedies can
influence chemotherapy drug metabolism leading to reduced effectiveness or
increased toxicity. Unfortunately, patients often do not realise that these
products may interfere with their treatment as there use is mostly not discussed
with their cancer team. Furthermore, as they are usually branded as natural, a
possible harmful interaction is usually not considered. This should be regarded
as an oversight as other research has shown that up to 84% of patients dabble or
regularly take complementary medicines after their diagnosis of cancer. Amoung the most widely used herbal supplement is St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) thought to have anti-depressant properties. Like
smoking, mentioned above this interacts with one of the liver enzymes (CYP3A4)
decreasing the concentration of the chemotherapy drugs irinotecan, docetaxol and
the biological agent imatinib. Although the evidence for a number of other complementary therapies is
less robust, potential interactions have been reported with echinacea, grape
seed and gingko (caution with most chemotherapy drugs), ephedra (increases blood
pressure during cancer therapies particularly with sutent and nexevar), kava-
kava (increases the risk of liver damage). In short, supplements are chemicals
and need the body’s metabolic processes to excrete them. As the body is
already under a lot of pressure and there is some evidence that antioxidant,
herbal or vitamin they may interfere with the effectiveness of conventional
therapies, on balance it is best not to take them as they make matters worse. Cod
liver oil The
main components are omega-3 fatty acids but it is also high in vitamins A and D.
There is genuine trial evidence for the benefits of cod liver oil on the joints.
Not only have well conducted trials shown a reduction in joint discomfort, but
they have demonstrated a reduction in the underlying damage to the joint. A
trial involving patients with rheumatoid arthritis took 1 g of cod liver oil
(one capsule) daily for 3 months. Half reported a reduction in stiffness, and
40% a reduction in pain and swelling. An extremely eloquent study from Cardiff University in 2004, examined the discarded arthritic knees of people who had undergone
knee replacement surgery. Some were treated with Omega-3 fatty acids for 24
hours in a laboratory, others were not. A chemical was added to mimic an
inflammatory response, and the samples examined four days later. When
researchers looked at the cartilage pieces, they found enzymes which are
responsible for destroying cartilage in arthritis, present in the untreated
group. But they were 'turned off' in those treated with Omega-3 fatty acids, as
were the enzymes which cause inflammation and pain in joints. This research,
therefore, showed that not only does cod liver oil reduce pain and inflammation
in the joints of people with osteoarthritis, but it also turns off the enzymes
responsible for destroying cartilage. If you have joint stiffness and pain, it
is certainly worth taking cod liver oil . Cod
liver oil is also high in vitamin D which is difficult to take in recommended
amounts particularly, in the northern hemisphere. As deficiencies in vitamin D
have been linked to cancer, for this reason alone, there may be a place for
daily cod liver oil supplements, at least in the winter months. Probiotics and prebiotics (healthy bacteria) The
healthy bacteria in our gut have lived with mankind for millions of years. We
have learnt to rely on them to help us digest our food. During chemotherapy,
radiotherapy, after a prolonged illness, following a course of antibiotics, or
for no apparent reason, these healthy bacteria can be damaged, and there is now
very good evidence that taking an extra amount in the form of a dietary
supplement may be helpful. The
most numerous probiotic bacteria normally inhabiting the small intestine are a
species of lactobacilli. In the colon, the majority are mainly bifidobacteria.
Most probiotic products consist of one or more species of bacteria from one or
both of these types. Lactobacillus
acidophilus is by far the most well known species of probiotic, which has led many people to
refer to probiotics simply as "acidophilus". This strain, amongst
other benefits, has been shown to increase levels of interleukin and tumour
necrosis factor, which suppress cancerous tumour growth. Other research has
shown that L.acidophilus alleviates lactose intolerance by producing significant
amounts of the lactose digesting enzyme, and inhibits gastrointestinal pathogens
by producing antimicrobial substances such as acidophilin. It has also been
shown to help conditions outside the gut such as eczema and other skin
inflammatory skin conditions. Chemotherapy agents such as fluorouracil can cause
diarrhoea, which cannot only be uncomfortable, but can also lead to dehydration,
concentration of the drug in the blood stream and generally greater side effects
and risks. A study in 2007 randomly allocated a 100 patients receiving
fluorouracil Lactobacillus acidophilus, and another 50 patients no supplements.
There were no adverse effects in the probiotic group, but the rate of moderate
to severe diarrhoea was significantly better in the lactobacillus group. Lactobacillus
rhamnosus combined with acidophilus, has also been shown to reduce or prevent radiotherapy
induced diarrhoea in three separate clinical studies. There a growing amount of
evidence that L.rhamnosus can help treat and prevent gut infections. Good
controlled trials performed on hospitalised children who had acute diarrhoea
showed that L. rhamnosus reduced the duration of diarrhoea. Some placebo
controlled studies also suggest that probiotics are of benefit in the treatment
of antibiotics-associated diarrhoea, and in the prevention of viral diarrhoea.
There have also been a number of studies which suggest a protection against the
‘superbug’ clostridium difficile plaguing hospitals around the World, so a
course of probiotics, before coming into hospital for an operation, would be a
wise idea. Lactobacillus
bulgaricus. This organism usually passes through the digestive system and leaves the body in
the stool, untouched. It has been shown to enhance the digestibility of milk
products and other proteins, and to produce natural antibiotic substances that
specifically target pathogenic bacteria, whilst sparing friendly species. In
another study it was shown to stimulate activity in part of the gut immune
system called the Peyer's patches. Lactobacillus
salivarius has been shown to inhibit the bacteria Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) which is
responsible for the creation of peptic ulcers. It has been discovered that
L.salivarius produces large amounts of lactic acid acting as an antibiotic,
inhibiting the growth of H.pylori and reducing the associated inflammatory
response. The first bacteriocin (natural antibiotic substance) to be isolated
and studied at the genetic level, was taken from a strain of L.salivarius. Lactobacillus
probiotics have also been shown to help alleviate food intolerance and allergic conditions.
Food intolerance leads to uncommon periods of bloating, wind and colicky
indigestion – this is often labelled irritable bowel syndrome. This can
develop for no apparent reason at any stage of life, but it is even more likely
you have taken had a prolonged illness, taken antibiotics or chemotherapy. Often
this is related to the development of a mild intolerance to wheat or yeast, but
it may also be caused by other foods. Although this does not usually lead to
full blown bowel damage or malabsorption seen with conditions such as Coeliacs
Disease , it can be uncomfortable and distressing. As well as bloating, you can be prone to alternating diarrhoea and
constipation, passing offensive wind and an overall sensation of not having a
satisfactory bowel movement. As well as identifying the foods which upset you,
e.g. bread, beer or wheat pasta, a course of probiotics for a week or so every
month, may help to restore the natural balance. Prebiotics are indigestible carbohydrates known as oligosaccharides, and feed probiotic
bacteria and encourage their growth. Oligosaccharides are found naturally in
certain fruit and vegetables, including bananas, asparagus, garlic, wheat,
tomatoes, artichoke, onions and chicory. Prebiotics can be taken on their own or
with a probiotic supplement. The most common types of prebiotics available in
supplements are fructooligosaccharides, inulin and galactooligosaccharides. Chondroitin and Glucosamine These
are complex sugars that are present in the cartilage of joints. They are used
widely to treat arthritis, and are often taken in large quantities by body
builders who are convinced that they would not be able to lift the weights
without extra protection for their joints. Their springy chemical structure
provides much of the resistance to compression of cartilage on weight bearing,
and its loss is a major cause of joint pain and osteoarthritis Chondroitin appears to be made from extracts of cartilaginous cow and pig tissues
particularly trachea, ear and nose, although alternative sources include bird
and shark cartilage. The dosage of oral chondroitin used in human clinical
trials is usually 800–1,200 mg per day. Since chondroitin is not a uniform
substance, and is naturally present in a wide variety of forms, the precise
composition of each supplement will vary. Chondroitin is under the jurisdiction
of the FDA in the U.S. as a dietary supplement as a result, and as there are no mandatory standards
for formulation, there is no guarantee that the product is correctly labelled.
One report, in the year 2000, analysed 32 chondroitin supplements. Only 5 were
labelled correctly, and more than half contained less than 40% of the labelled
amount. Fortunately, at least in the US testing standards now exist for the identification and quantification of
chondroitin. Glucosamine is a monosaccharide amino sugar found as a major component of the exoskeletons
of crustaceans, but is also found abundantly in fungi and higher organisms. It is produced commercially by crushing crustacean exoskeletons. Like
chondroitin, glucosamine is commonly used as a treatment for joint pains,
although its acceptance as a medical therapy varies. Multiple
clinical trials in the 1980s and 1990s, all sponsored by the European
patent-holder, Rottapharm, were conducted on patients with a wide variety of
arthritic problems. Although these trials were small and not particularly well
designed, they did show a clear benefit for glucosamine treatment. There was not
only an improvement in symptoms, but also an improvement in joint space
narrowing on. This suggested that glucosamine can actually help prevent the
destruction of cartilage as well as reduce pain. On the other hand, several
subsequent studies, independent of Rottapharm, but again small and poorly
designed, did not detect any benefit of glucosamine. As a result of the
conflicting evidence both for and against glucosamine's efficacy, there remained
a debate amongst physicians about whether to recommend glucosamine treatment to
their patients. This
situation led the prestigious National Institute of Health in the USA to fund a large multi-centre study of people with pain and osteoarthritis of
the knee, evaluating both agents. It compared groups treated with, glucosamine,
chondroitin or a combination of both, to both placebo and a standard
anti-inflammatory pain killer. The results of this 6-month trial found that
patients taking glucosamine HCl, chondroitin sulfate, or a combination of the
two had no improvement in their symptoms compared to patients taking a placebo.
The group of patients who took the standard pain killer, not surprisingly, did
have a statistically significant improvement in their symptoms. These results
suggest that glucosamine and chondroitin did not effectively relieve pain in the
overall group of osteoarthritis patients, although no significant side effects
were reported. There still remains, however, some hope for the fate of this
supplement. A subgroup analysis suggested that the supplements may have been
effective in patients with pain classified as moderate to severe. Also the main
commercial manufacturers’ of glucosamine claimed that glucosamine sulfate
should have been used in the study instead of HCL, as this is more effective.
Although this concern is not shared by pharmacologists, many conclude that the
question of these agents efficacy will not be resolved without further updates
or trials. Summary of concerns with
dietary supplements:- They offer an attractive quick fix 
	to health May distract people from the real 
	issues of lifestyle. Some trials have shown increase 
	risk of cancer and heart disease. Other long term risks remain 
	uncertain until more data available. Very few trials have actually shown 
	a benefit for cancer. Individuals with an underlying 
	deficiency have shown a benefit Nutritional deficiencies could be 
	corrected with a balanced diet They can add expense to the cost of 
	living Summary of the potential benefits of dietary supplements After illness or intensive treatments supplementation may be helpful, e.g -  vitamin and mineral to cover a period of poor nutrition -  vitamin B following a period of heavy alcohol intake - oral
    iron following a heavy menstrual period or other bleeding Correcting
    a known deficiency has been shown to be most beneficial Selenium
    deficiency is relatively common and may need supplementation in some parts
    of the world where soil levels are low Cod
    liver oil has been shown to help arthritis Glucosamine
    & chondroitin may help arthritis, although more evidence is needed Probiotics
    help with - chemotherapy induced diarrhoea - protection from infective diarrhoea including C. difficle - protecting the stomach from infective indigestion (H.pylori) Calcium
    and vitamin D help with bone density, but should be monitored Is
there a place for dietary supplements? The concerns above do not
necessarily insinuate there is no place at all for supplements. Well designed
supplements should have a wide range of essential trace minerals and vitamins at
low doses which means it is unlikely to accumulate toxic levels of a single
mineral. Others such as fish oils area good source of omega 3 and have been
proven to help arthritis and help reduce cholesterol. The safest way to ensure you take the
correct amount and type of dietary supplement is to find out your own bodies
current levels and requirements. A number of different
tests are available to do this ranging from analysis of blood, urine,
saliva, hair or even or toe nails! A number of independent laboratories are now
offering tests which can assess your baseline nutritional status. Test your baseline nutritional status -
This will help you decide if supplementts are necessary and if so which types Further
information The book Lifestyle
After Cancer summarises the lifestyle evidence from around the world
and provides practical advice for all stages in the cancer journey. A detailed
film available in English, Italian, Urdu,
Bengali, Gujarati & Hindi explains Radiotherapy & Chemotherapy. Cancernet.co.uk is a comprehensive cancer information resource written by an experienced team of
doctors, health professionals and patients. It contains links and information
on: Specific cancers : Breast | Prostate | Bowel . Cancer
treatments : Chemotherapy | Radiotherapy | Hormones | Biological
agents | Complementary
therapies . Lifestyle and cancer : Exercise | Diet | Smoking | Sunbathing | Alcohol. Tips to help
with symptoms and side effects . Financial issues : Traveling | Travel insurance | Links
to support groups | Books | Tests
for cancer | Clinical trials | What
is cance