<http://www.backtohealthnaturally.com/?p=260>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Are The Aloe Vera Benefits As Good As Is Claimed? | Back To Health Naturally | Natural Cures | Herbal Medicine | Herbal Remedies Home About Contact Quick Travel Tips How Clean is Your Home? Oils That Heal Thieves Peppermint Lavender Acne Treatment Stress Relief Allergies Focus Menopause Emotions Virtual Catalogs Pets Anti-Aging Sacred Oils Mindset My Other Job Reprint Content Learn From My Mentors Free Report – 12 Oils of Ancient Scripture Container Store NingXia Red Receive Updates Are The Aloe Vera Benefits As Good As Is Claimed? by Karen Brooks on September 20, 2010 Aloe Vera You might have glanced at the ingredient label of your shampoo, topical cream, or even facial tissue and noticed one key component- Aloe. Have you ever wondered what makes Aloe so amazing, or so amazingly common? Currently, there are three hundred and sixty species of Aloe in the world; however, just four of those are equipped with nutritional value suitable for animals or humans. Aloe barbadensis miller (pronounced bar ba den sis) or, Aloe vera , is the most common and potent of the Aloe family. This spiky green succulent looks like a cactus relative, though they are not botanically related. Snap open any one of the plump leaves and you will find a clear sticky gel that serves as a dynamic healing agent. Inner aloe jelly helps the plant conserve natural moisture by pulling dampness from its surrounding environment. When the gel is placed on human skin, it has a similar effect. Also know as the “burn plant,” Aloe restores moisture to the skin that has been lost through harm while soothing pain in the process. Aloe’s seemingly magical qualities do not end there. The plant’s anti-inflammatory properties have been likened to comparable steroids. It serves as a bactericidal, virucidal, and fungicidal (anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal) that keeps vulnerable wounds free from infection and other potentially harmful microscopic dangers. After penetrating the damaged tissue, Aloe dilates capillaries that increase blood supply to the damaged area. Injuries treated with Aloe reveal an advanced content of aldehydic groups (organic compounds) which allow for higher degrees of “cross-linking;” strengthening the wound tissue during healing. Aloe vera has also been shown to augment collagen levels of granulation tissue. Increased collagen content not only aids in the overall curative process, but it also builds a better, more forgiving final scar. Because of its unique properties, Aloe lends itself to battle more severe skin conditions such as psoriasis and genital herpes. Ingested, the “burn plant” eases internal inflammations like ulcers, heartburn or digestive problems, and ulcerative colitis in certain patients. Additionally, the dried latex found in the lining of the Aloe leaf serves as an oral laxative. Anti-bacterial and anti-fungal attributes of Aloe extracts have been known to inhibit the growth of harmful bacteria like Shigella (which can cause dysentery) and Streptococcus (which can cause illnesses like strep throat and meningitis). Making regular appearances on ingredient labels of lotions and soaps, Aloe gel naturally infiltrates your skin, bringing its moisturizing abilities deep within for more effective healing. While Aloe use dates back to the Egyptians (who regarded it as a sacred plant), modern research shows that Aloe barbadensis miller enhances the proteolytic enzyme action in skin tissue. By supporting exfoliation and cell division, Aloe gel hastens the production of healthy tissue. This rejuvenates even the roughest, toughest epidermis, making it feel soft and supple. Across the globe, from African cultures to Hispanics, Aloe barbadensis miller is regarded as a multifaceted, handy plant. With few-to-no known side effects, Aloe is a great example of pure organic healing. The next time you see Aloe on the ingredient label, know that you are using nature’s greatest healer. Kari has been studying and practicing alternative health for several years and is a firm believer in its use and effectiveness. She is also the owner of Alternative Health Ideas which has natural health tips, articles, and resources regarding common natural health topics and concerns. { 1 comment… read it below or add one } Stephanie November 7, 2011 at 9:01 am Aloe vera has also been shown to augment collagen levels of granulation tissue. Increased collagen content not only aids in the overall curative process, but it also builds a better, more forgiving final scar. Stephanie recently posted.. how to get rid of stretch marks with aloe vera Reply Cancel reply Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: 4 Reasons Why Homeopathy Works Next post: Foods That Make You Grow Taller – The Real Truth About Growing Taller Revealed Join Me… Archives Select Month February 2012 January 2012 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 Recent Posts The Versatility of Eucalyptus Essential Oils All Things Are Possible If You Believe! I Have the Flu… Now What? Don’t let stress get the best of you this holiday season! Lose Weight with Green Tea Categories Select Category Aromatherapy and Essential Oils Bed Bugs Blog Cell Phone Radiation and Cancer Emotions Essential Oils Exercise Frankincense Health Health Alternatives Health Facts Health Home Remedies Health Tips Healthy Diet Healthy Eating Healthy Tips Healthy Weight Loss Nutrition Stress Uncategorized Name: Email: We respect your email privacy Powered by AWeber email marketing Tags Add new tag alternative medicine antioxidants apple better nutrition black tea cancer depression diabetes diet diet supplements essential oils fruits good health green tea healing broken bones Health health benefits of tea health food health nutrition Health Tips healthy healthy diet Healthy Eating healthy skin herbal medicines home remedies meals memory natural alternative natural cures natural health natural remedies natural remedies for depression natural treatment Nutrients nutritional diet nutritional supplements nutritious foods Nutriton nutriton diets skincare supplements tea weight loss Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Get smart wit