
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 21:39:56 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

More Information about Aloe Vera Aloe Vera Plants Aloe Vera Plant Aloe Vera Uses Acne treatment For Skingrowth For Skin blemishes As Painkiller Relief from cut For baldness treatment As Antiseptic Enchances moistness of skin Expels toxin from body For smooth skin Prevents eruption from acne Reduce inflammation Removes scars and marks Restore and rejuvenates affected skin Aloe Vera Cosmetic use After Shave lotion Heals minor cut and scrapes Dandruff removing cream Facial moisturizer To prevent wrinkles To regenerates new skin Remove blackness under eyes Treatments for acne and pimple Used in hair gel Remove stretchmarks after pregnancy In scalp and hair Sunburn gel Aleovera in Deo Aloe Vera History Growing aloevera Easy to propagate Great Starter plant Grow at your home Aloe Vera Benefits Juice Benefits Healing Benefits Vitamins Benefits Skin Care Benefits Alleviating Skin Fighting with infection Treating wound Aloe Vera Health Benefits Detox For healthy digestion Immune support reduce inflammation Healthy skin Regulate energy level Dental health Daily dose of vitamins and minerals Aloe Vera Products Aloe Vera Juice Aloe Vera Gel Aloe Vera Drink Aloe Vera Lotion Aloe Vera Capsules Aloe Vera Pills Aloe Vera Shampoo Aloe Vera Georges Aloe vera deodrant Aloe vera propoliscream Aloe vera cosmetics Aloe Vera Cures Skin Care Hair Care Acne Care Dryskin treatment Treatment for healthy heart Treatment of allergy Asthma treatment Beauty care and treatment Treatment and cure for children Treatment and cure for Diabetes Treatment and cure for Wound Treatment and cure for teeth Treatment and cure for immune system Treatment and cure for leaky gut Treatment and cure for mouth ulcer Treatment and cure for psoriasis Treatment and cure for rosacea Aloe Vera Species Aloe arborescens Aloe aristata Aloe dichotoma Aloe ngobitensis Aloe variegata Aloevera barbados Aloe wildi Aloe 

          Vera Side Effect Not good for children Problem of heart and kidney Problem of Intestinal spasms and stomach cramps Problem of dehydration Aloe Vera Medicinal Uses Heal skin wound Heal burn Help in speed recovery Gel on blister Heal insec bite Heal rashes Heal Sores Heal Herpes Heal urticaria Heal Fungus Heal vaginal infetion Heal conjuctivitis Heal allergic reation For glow effects on skin Heal acne Heal sunburn Fight frostbite Fight shingle Screen Xray radiation Reduce Psoriasis Reduce rosacea Reduce warts Reduce Wrinkles Reduce exczema Aloe Vera Location Aloevera in Australia Aloevera in UK Aloevera in China Aloevera in Scotland Aloevera in Netherlands Aloevera in Nigeria Aloevera in Ghana Aloevera in Kenya Aloevera in Wales Aloe Vera Research More Information about Aloe Vera How to Use Aloe vera Plant for Skin care Try Aloe vera for growing hair Is aloe vera good for swelling Aloe vera for tightening skin Aloe vera for Asthma Treatment [More...] More Information about Aloe Vera How to Use Aloe vera Plant for Skin care There are numerous aloe vera plant uses for skin care which makes it really popular and a well known name in every house hold. You can get a detailed information about aloe vera and its skin care benefits over here. [more...] Try Aloe vera for growing hair One can  use aloe vera for growing hair naturally as it has a rich source of vitamins and essential amino acids that nourishes the scalp to prevent hair fall. [more...] Posted at: Thursday September 29, 2011 Is aloe vera good for swelling if you are looking for natural cure for swelling, try aloe vera since aloe vera for swelling treatment is effective owing to its natural healing and scar removing properties. [more...] Posted at: Thursday September 22, 2011 Aloe vera for tightening skin aloe vera for tightening skin is effective as it helps in the formation of collagen fibers that promotes healthy and youthful looking skin. [more...] Posted at: Monday September 12, 2011 Aloe vera for Asthma Treatment Aloe vera for asthma treatment is best natural alternative that has been used since long time. However, it should be used in combination with prescription medicines and inhalers for best results. [more...] Posted At: Saturday, September 3, 2011 Aloe Vera vs Vitamin E Comparing aloe vera vs vitamin E gives detailed information that using aloe vera for skin is much better option than vitamin E. This is due to the fact that aloe vera contains other nutrients and vitamins apart from vitamin E, essential for healthy skin. [more...] Posted At: Saturday, August 20, 2011 Aloe Vera for Toenail Fungus Treatment You can use aloe vera for toenail fungus treatment. Aloe vera can be externally used directly on the affected nail as gel or lotions. Soaking the toenail in a solution of aloe vera juice and tea tree oil proves to be quite effective cure. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, August 11, 2011 Use Aloe Vera for Heart Burn Remedies Aloe vera for heart burn remedies is quite popular as it helps in soothing the inflamed esophagus causing this unpleasant burning sensation. Drink aloe vera juice before meals to avoid unpleasant sensation of heart burn. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, August 4, 2011 Is Aloe Vera Good for Pimples Aloe vera for pimples is regarded as effective natural treatment because of its natural origin and is widely available as various supplements such as gel, lotion, cream and juice. [more...] Posted At: Friday, July 29, 2011 Aloe vera and Crohn's Disease Aloe vera is known to cure gastro-intestinal disorder and that is why aloe vera for crohn's disease treatment is effective. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, July 19, 2011 Aloe Vera for Cold and Flu Treatment Aloe vera for cold and flue treatment is effective as it strengthens your immune system that helps to fight viral infection. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, July 14, 2011 Link between Aloe Vera and Diabetes Aloe vera and diabetes definitely have a link and helps in lowering the sugar level of the body in diabetic patients. However, it should not be treated as a substitute for insulin. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, July 7, 2011 Aloe Vera for Cancer Treatment Aloe vera for cancer treatment is widely used as it suppresses the growth of malignant tumors causing cancer in the body. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, June 30, 2011 Aloe Vera for Dry Skin use of aloe vera for dry skin is effective as it helps in curing skin infection such as eczema and psoriasis that causes itching and irritation. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday, June 22, 2011 Pure Aloe Vera Gel For Face Aloe vera gel for face is extensively used for removing all kinds of scars, dark spots and hyper pigmentation resulting in clear and improved complexion. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday, June 15, 2011 Benefits of Organic Aloe Vera Juice There are numerous health benefits of aloe vera juice. It is used for getting rid of the ailments both internally as well as externally. Aloe vera can be easily absorbed in the body in the form juice extracts. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, June 1, 2011 Chemical Properties of Aloe Vera The chemical properties of aloe vera make it unique and versatile in the field of beauty and health. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, May 24, 2011 Aloe Vera for Cold Sore Treatment Aloe vera for cold sore treatment has been effective in giving relief from pain and discomfort to the blisters appearing near mouth and lips. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, May 17, 2011 Aloe Vera Body Lotion Aloe vera lotion is perfect for body defense as it fights against pollution and other environmental irritants. [more...] Posted At: Saturday, May 7, 2011 How to Use Aloe Vera Plant Get the detailed information about how to use aloe vera plant to cure several ailments naturally. [more...] Posted At: Saturday, April 30, 2011 Aloe Vera Plant for Boils Since long time aloe vera for boils treatment has been used as it is regarded as the natural remedies to cure them. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, April 21, 2011 Aloe Vera for Hemorrhoids Relief Aloe vera for hemorrhois relief is perfect as it has anti- inflammatory and healing properties that have a soothing effect on hemorrhoids. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, April 13, 2011 Goodness of Aloe Vera Oil Aloe vera oil doe not occur naturally and is made by mixing aloe vera extracts in a base containing apricot, soybean or almond oil. [more...] Posted At: Thursday, April 7, 2011 Aloe Vera for Relieving Constipation Aloe vera for constipation treatment has been used since ages as it acts as natural cure for disorders related to gastro-intestinal system due to its laxative properties. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday, March 30, 2011 Use Aloe Vera for Sunburn Relief Aloe vera for sunburn treatment has been used since long due to its anti-inflammatory and healing properties. [more...] Posted At: Friday, March 11, 2011 Benefits of Aloe Vera Supplements There are various health benefits of aloe vera supplements which makes it popular and widely used since long time. [more...] Posted At: Friday, March 4, 2011 Aloe Vera for Stretch Marks Aloe vera for stretch marks is effective due to its scar healing properties. It preserves the moisture which is necessary for preventing stretch marks. [more...] Posted At: Friday, Feburary 25, 2011 Tips for Aloe Vera Plant Care Aloe vera plant care is easy and if you do not water the plant daily, then also there is no problem unlike other plants that may wilt away. [more...] Posted At: Friday , Feburary 18, 2011 Aloe Vera hair gel : Leave the hair fall problems away! Aloe Vera hair gel features the hair gel enriched with aloe vera gel that after being applied on your hair turns it dandruff free, shining with enhanced hair growth. [more...] Posted At: Monday , December 23, 2010 Ultimate Aloe vera spray benefits! Aloe vera spray comes for the various purpose such as the removal of the stinking body odor along with various refreshing fragrance. Further the aloe vera spray also lets to reduce the muscle pain with instant aloe vera pain reliever spray. [more...] Posted At: Monday , December 13, 2010 Aloe Vera Skincare : Best Skin solution! Aloe vera skincare really works to keep the skin free of roughness, disorder, heat burn, wrinkle stretches and other several issue with its excellent healing capacity. [more...] Posted At: Monday , December 09, 2010 Natural Aloe Vera Deodorant Sticks! Aloe Vera Deodorant Sticks is a natural aero vera enriched deodorant stick that keeps the skin body odor far away for long time. [more...] Posted At: Monday , December 04, 2010 Aloe Vera Juice Detox : An Ultimate Healing Agent! Aloe Vera Juice Detox rectify the blood having harmful toxins and other impurities of the blood along with reducing the blood sugar level. [more...] Posted At: Monday , october 26, 2010 Aloe Drink: Natural healing solution! Aloe vera drink is a natural supplement comprising multitudes of features regulating the complete system of the body. [more...] Posted At: Monday , November 22, 2010 aloe vera barbadensis miller clinically plroven anti inflammatary Aloe vera Barbadensis is one of the natural and safe products for the treatment of various kinds of internal and external diseases. The aloe vera Barbadensis miller is clinically proven as anti-inflammatory and anti- bacterial. [more...] Posted At: Monday , october 25, 2010 Buy aloevera for an expensive treatment Aloevera gel is the perfect solution to get rid of acne scares, digestive disorder, burns, skin infections, diabetes and many more. You can buy aloevera in a very reasonable price in order to get the cheap and best treatment of your internal and external disease. [more...] Posted At: Monday , october 25, 2010 Aloe Vera supplement and Irritable Bowel Syndrome Aloe Vera supplement are one of the best and safe treatment for many kind of diseases and disorders such as IBS, skin problem, burns, inflammation etc. Aloe Vera supplement fulfills the needed balance of the intestinal system. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday , october 19, 2010 Aloevera colon cleanser the natural cure for indigestion Aloevera juice colon cleanser helps you in to improve your digestive system. It cleanses your intestine and gives a new life to the gastrointestinal canal. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday , october 12, 2010 Aloe vera dry hair treatment offers healthy hair Aloe vera dry hair and aloe vera curly hair treatments are very natural and even fruitful treatment. It offers you shiny, silky and beautiful hairs. It also reduces the dandruff and hair loss. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday , october 06, 2010 Countless aloe vera tea benefits Aloevera tea is very effective in treating internal as well as external diseases. Aloevera tea is very much capable to heal the internal wounds and it is also good for skin treatment. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday , September 22, 2010 Aloevera scabies treatment for anti-inflammatory effects Aloevera scabies treatment effectively reduces the inflammation without ay harmful effect. You can experience a good and even positive result after having aloevera juice for scabies as it contains essential vitamins and minerals for the treatment of such disease. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, September 07, 2010 Aloevera vitamins and minerals maintain body functionality Aloevera vitamin and minerals are very essential to maintain healthy body. Aloevera juice contains lots of essential mineral (Potassium, Zinc, Copper, Iron sodium etc) and vitamins (vitamin A, B1, B2, B6, B12, C, and E) which is very essential for the functionality of the body. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, August 31, 2010 Is Aloevera solution for ulcers? Aloevera juice is very helpful to cure many diseases. It really cures all type of ulcer like peptic ulcer very effectively. It works very gently and gives a nice effect. [more...] Posted At: Monday, August 25, 2010 How to find aloe vera juice nutrition facts Aloevera juice nutrition facts made it a great supplement to cure many diseases like skin irritation (itching, burns, sunburns, and acne), digestion disorder, inflammation in esophagus etc. It is really very effective and results to cure these diseases in a very natural way. [more...] Posted At: Monday, August 16, 2010 Get rid of esophagus inflammation naturally The natural remedies aloe vera is an excellent means to treat the skin infirmity like acne, itching, pimples, redness due to sunburn, burns. This herbal remedies offers acid reflux for a natural treatment of inflammation in the esophagus. [more...] Posted At: Saturday, August 14, 2010 Aloevera treatment for sunburn Aloevera is a rich source of nutritional substances which is useful to treat different types of disease like skin infection, digestion disorder, eczema, sunburns etc. Aloevera burns the dead skin and results a healthy and glowing skin. [more...] Posted At: Monday, August 09, 2010 Aloevera a complete anti-bacterial agent You can use Aloe vera for itch because it is a good anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory agent. You can easily and comfortably use aloe vera for your skin treatment because it is herbal treatment and causes no side effect. [more...] Posted At: Monday, July 26, 2010 Take aloevera capsules for a good health Aloevera capsules are made from the freeze-dried form of aloevera gel which contains vitamin B12, E, C, and B6. It is rich in mineral. This capsule is used as a supplement to control blood pressure. [more...] Posted At: Monday, July 26, 2010 Aloe Vera leaf juice offers healthy skin Aloe Vera leaf juice is herbal in property which is extracted from aloe vera plant leaves. It is used for skin treatment. It has no side effect because it is organic and natural. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, July 6, 2010 Organic aloevera gel, safe treatment for skin irritation Organic aloevera is herbal gel which is used for the treatment of many types of skin irritations. It is also used in shampoos because it is good conditioner. It gives a soothing effect on sunburns. It is 100% organic and has no harmful effects. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, July 6, 2010 Procedure to use aloe Vera Aloe Vera is the oldest and most universal herbal plant has ever known in the world. It has been become so useful that now it does not require any introduction. People know about it since of a inclusion in many renounced cosmetic products, medicines, etc. [more...] Posted At: Monday, June 14, 2010 Aloe Vera ï¿½ The silent healer Aloe Vera is a perennial and tender plant which belongs to the family of Lily. It is tough, spear having spear like leaves which can grow up to 36 inches prolonged enclose with the transparent jelly like substances in an executive mucilaginous pulp. Now the aloe Vera has much famous that it does not require any introduction. [more...] Posted At: Monday, June 07, 2010 Antioxidant power of aloe Vera In human body, the antioxidants are commonly used as the medications to treat the various forms of injury. In the bodyï¿½s defense system, it fights against the free radicals which are toxics inside the body. [more...] Posted At: Monday, May 31, 2010 Aloe vera for acid reflux Acid reflux is a type disease which is caused when the acid from the stomach is thrown back into the throat. It is most common disease among the people but a large number of people are suffering from it. [more...] Posted At: Monday, May 24, 2010 Aloe Vera for the treatment of Acne The acne is a most common human skin disease which includes the multiple non inflammatory follicular papules. These follicular papules mostly affect the areas of skin which includes the face, the upper part of chest and the back. [more...] Posted At: Monday, May 17, 2010 Aloe Vera as natureï¿½s gifts The biological name of aloe Vera is aloe barbadensis which is also called as the perennial plants of the lily family. It is better known for their healing and soothing properties. [more...] Posted At: Monday, May 10, 2010 Growing the Aloe Vera plant Aloe barbadensis as the aloe Vera is mostly known for its medicinal and commercial value since biblical times. It has been used as different ailments and ointments for cuts, rashes, burns, and wounds as well as the juice, gel, lotion, skin care [more...] Posted At: Monday, May 03, 2010 Aloe Vera as healing plant A beautiful Aloe Vera is called as blessing plant of God. It is used as the medicinal purpose and has been used for the tropical treatment for the minor wounds, burns and skin irritations. So it is also called as the medicinal plant and burn plant. [more...] Posted At: Saturday, April 24, 2010 Aloe Vera Treatment for herpes Herpes is viral disease which is due to herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2) infection which is categorized as distinct disorder Oral herpes and Genital herpes. Oral herpes is usally visible and recognized as cold sores or fever blisters. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday, April 14, 2010 Aloe vera and wrinkles Aloe Vera has been popular since 3,000 years for beauty and skin diseases. Aloe Vera contains superb ingredient which works great as a stretch mark cream and wrinkle cream. According to research of beauty specialists and nutritionists, aloe stimulates growth of cell and favor revitalize (refresh) the skin. [more...] Posted At: Wednesday, April 14, 2010 Aloe Vera for Hyperpigmentation Hyperpigmentation is a skin condition which causes dark patches and spots on skin. Inflammation, sun damage and skin injuries are some common causes of hyperpigmentation.  Today it is very increasing in the world due to uses of cream which mixture of several harmful chemical. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, April 13, 2010 Aloe Vera Bodybuilding Everyone knows the benefits of Aloe Vera for skin and digestive disorder but very few of them applied it as a body building and muscle building. Since ancient time it has been used by people for any health problems. [more...] Posted At: Friday, April 9, 2010 Aloe Vera Enema for Reducing Inflammation in Anal The medical benefits of Aloe Vera have been popular since ancient time. Aloe Vera is perfect for healing skin diseases and discovered as cleansing the digestive tract as well. Today everyone know its benefits on skin problems but now it is now not only limited to skin diseases, as for recent research it is effective colon cleansing plant and very helpful in healing  cancer, digestive system, constipation, Irritable Bowel syndrome etc. Hence it is also used for enema in cleansing colon diseases. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, April 6, 2010 Aloe Vera Body Wash for Soft and Shining Skin Aloe Vera is one of the most useful medicinal plants which are used for numerous purposes. It is popular for its skin healing properties and also used in several colon diseases like cancer, diabetes, and heart problems. The gel and latex extracted from aloe vera leaf are used to make various medicinal products and it also used in washing body. [more...] Posted At: Friday, April 3, 2010 Aloe Vera Juice for Digestive Care Aloe Vera healing properties are recognized for centuries for its excellent health healing properties. For long time it was considered as best treatment of skin problems like sunburn, acne, black eye, psoriasis, red bugs, pigmentation etc but now the thought is totally ignored by health experts. According to recent research Aloe Vera benefits are remarkable on various diseases like cancer, Diabetes, Constipation etc. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, March 30, 2010 Aloe Vera for Psoriasis Treatment Psoriasis is a chronic skin disease which causes red, scaly spots to appear on the skin. The scaly patches are the main cause of this disease which is called psoriatic plaques. These areas are highly inflammated and produces excessive skin production. Psoriasis is mostly affected the areas of knees, elbows and scalp but itï¿½s not always certain many people have psoriasis at entire body. [more...] Posted At: Friday, March 26, 2010 Aloe Vera Plant care Tips About 250 species of Aloe Vera is available in the world. It is recognized as native plant of Africa because the environment of Africa is suitable for Aloe Vera. The height of Aloe plant is ranging from one inch to 2 foot. Most Aloes have some great medical and commercial value and mostly known as Aloe barbadensis called Aloe Vera. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, March 23, 2010 Aloe Vera treatment for Dandruff Cure Dandruff is the state of the skin that affects the scalp which causes dry flaky skin. Still scientist has not proven the complete cause of dandruff and also what are the conditions is the main cause of it. Even dandruff is very tough to treat in different conditions. [more...] Posted At: Friday, March 19, 2010 Aloe Vera fairness cream natural skin texture Aloe Vera contains hundreds of natural substances which is beneficial for our health. In ancient time Aloe Vera is mainly used in skin diseases. People used Aloe Vera leaves to make gel and juice to get rid of skin diseases. Now Aloe Vera Plant products are available in numerous forms like cream, gel, juice, capsules, shop, shampoo etc. This is possible due to regular research on Aloe Vera benefits. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, March 16, 2010 Aloe Vera Pictures and Photos of Leaf Aloe Plant usually grows in tropical and sub tropical countries where the leaves of the clump-forming moist are evergreen. It is mostly found in dry, hot atmosphere or climates. The Aloe Vera is a natural for desert area. It is able to grow at the height of 3 feet and when its height become 1 and 2 feet tall, it is considered as mature plant. If you plantation aloe Vera at home, they are most likely shorter than above mentioned height. [more...] Posted At: Friday, March 12, 2010 Aloe Vera Oil Benefits on Various Health Probelms Today researchers have introduced various forms of Aloe Vera that works very effectively on internal and external health diseases. Aloe Vera oil is also a new form of Aloe Vera Plat benefits. It is one of the best forms to get benefits in internal and external diseases both. Aloe Vera plant medicinal benefits are popular since ancient time but in that time only gel and juice were used for wounds treatment. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, March 9, 2010 Benefits of Aloe Vera Juice for High Blood Pressure Taking herbs supplement for lower blood pressure has been recognized as the best alternative for medicine drugs. Countries like India, Nepal, China and some other parts of Asia have been using it from a long time and they trust on herbs for the treatment of blood pressure or hypertension. Many top level scientist has proved aloe for natural high blood pressure treatment. [more...] Posted At: Friday, March 5, 2010 Aloe Vera Benefits for diabetes Diabetes is one of the most growing challenges in the world and specially America. The numbers of patients are increasing day by day. The disease is hereditary in nature that means if your grandparent had it, you will have great tendency of acquiring the same problem. As far as treatment is concern, Injections is used to take out insulin. Insulin is popularly known as hormone which is a regulator for glucose stage in the blood and is generated in the pancreas. According to recent research, Aloe Vera is the best plant has the great ability of health diabetes. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, March 2, 2010 Aloe Vera benefits for irritable bowel syndrome Aloe Vera is odd looking desert-like plant which is one of the oldest medicinal plants in the history. Most of the people know its major benefits on healths like skin diseases, digestive problems, acne, stress, vitamin and mineral. But according to researchers it is one of the best medicinal plat for our internal body procedure like digestion and blood circulation. According to scientist research Aloe Vera has great benefits on increased protein digestion and absorption and work to reach more volume of water in the stool which is a great factor in reducing the sign of IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome). [more...] Posted At: Friday, February 26, 2010 How Aloe Vera Recipes are useful for health? Everyone knows the miraculous benefits of Aloe Vera at various health problems but did you taste it ever. People only use Aloe Vera Juice because it is available at any store. Today various Aloe Vera Recipes are available such as Aloe Vera drink recipe, aloe vera hair recipe, aloe vera plant recipe, aloe vera shampoo recipe, aloe vera lotion recipe, aloe vera cream recipe and aloe vera juice recipe which are most popular and beneficial recipes of Aloe Vera Plant. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, February 23, 2010 How is Aloe Vera juice colon cleanse helpful? Aloe Vera Plant is famous since time immemorial for its great effects on human body to cure many health ailments. Now Aloe Vera becomes the part of very human life because it has captured about 35% of the herbal and medicinal market. It has remarkable benefits on various skin problems, Immune support, regulating energy level, cancer, infections, colon cleanse, especially in the time of constipation and more. [more...] Posted At: Friday, February 19, 2010 Aloe Vera Juice Benefits for weight Loss and Energy Level The Aloe Vera Plant is popular for healing products since ancient time and now it we are able to use various forms of Aloe Vera. According to researchers Aloe Plant has hundreds of healing benefits. According to the book ï¿½The Essential Aloe Vera: The Actions and Evidenceï¿½ which is researched and written by Dr Peter Atherton during his visit to Research Fellowship at Green College, Oxford, Aloe Vera is our medicinal friend. [more...] Posted At: Tuesday, February 16, 2010 Sponsored AD Aloe vera Products Aloe Vera Juice Get Now Aloe Vera Juice 1 ltr Get Now Dabur Shilajit © 2008-2009 www.aloeverapla