
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 04 May 2012 08:39:05 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

ForeverGreen Healthy
Organic Chocolate: Thunder Ingredients Home Chocolate Info History of Chocolate Chocolate Recipes Chocolate Fondue Recipes Mission Our Mission Chocolate 
                Business Contact About Us Disclaimer Privacy Policy Sitemap Links Healthy Chocolate Chocolate 
                in the News Heart 
                Healthy Chocolate Chocolate 
                Top Antioxidant (pdf file) ForeverFit 
                Program (pdf file) Chocolate Shop Thunder 
                (meal replacement) Natural 
                Chocolate Teasers Fondue Chocolate Seasonal Specials Thunder Ingredients 24 KARAT CHOCOLATE POWDER With an ORAC (Oxygen Radical
Absorbance Capacity) value of 13,120 Chocolate is the number one
anti-oxidant food on the planet. The 24 Karat Chocolate Powder in
Thunder is just that, organic cocoa powder, pure and simple, without
any fillers or dross added. It is the simplest form of chocolate
available. In this pure form 24 Karat Chocolate Powder is an extremely
effective way of getting all the benefits of chocolate. ORGANIC WHEY PROTEIN High quality protein is one
of the most important nutrients to consume throughout the day. Protein
raises protective HDL cholesterol, lowers triglycerides, improves
insulin action, promotes lean muscle growth, and creates satiety and
blood sugar balance. Thunder is rich in whey protein, which has the
most health benefits of any protein studied. Whey protein may increases
longevity, enhance liver and heart glutathione concentrations as well.
Whey protein is rich in cysteine and leucine, which support the
detoxification of mercury and other toxic metals from the body. Whey
protein is also virtually lactose free, and is therefore well tolerated
by those who are lactose intolerant. Thunder is nearly free of the
allergenic milk protein casein, and is often well tolerated by those
who are dairy sensitive. POTASSIUM Potassium is a key nutrient
in maintaining the body's electrolyte balance. It may also help in
regulating heart and muscle contraction, aide in the conduction of
nerve impulses and maintaining proper fluid exchange. CALCIUM An essential mineral that
supports the formation of bones, teeth, and muscle tissue. Helps
regulate heartbeat, muscle action, nerve function, and blood clotting. MAGNESIUM Magnesium plays a variety of
roles in the body. Not only is it critical for energy production and
proper nerve function, it also promotes muscle relaxation and helps the
body produce and use insulin. Magnesium is involved in the formation of bones and teeth, the
clotting of blood, and the regulation of heart rhythm. Magnesium,
sometimes taken in combination with calcium, is often used to treat
such ailments as back pain, high blood pressure, depression, anxiety
and panic, muscle cramps, and migraine headache. VITAMIN A Promotes growth and repair of
body tissue, healthy eyes, bone growth, protein synthesis, night
vision, and a strong immune system. Helps reduce susceptibility to
infection. Essential for healthy skin, blood, bones, teeth, kidneys,
bladder, lungs, and membranes. VITAMIN E As a key anti oxidant,
vitamin E appears to play a modest but noteable role in protecting the
body from many chronic disorders. It may even slow the aging process
and guard against damage from secondhand smoke and other pollutants.
According to test-tube studies, the tocotrienols (al pha-tocotrienol
,specifically)appear to be the most powerful of the vitamin E anti
oxidants. Circulatory disorders, skin and joint problems, diabetes-related nerve
complications, high cholesterol, endometriosis, immune-system function,
and memory are also believed to benefit from vitamin E. THIAMINE Maintains brain function
(memory), digestion, nerve function, growth, muscle tone, and a healthy
nervous system. Necessary to convert food, sugar, and starch into
energy. Alcohol can cause deficiencies of this vitamin. RIBOFLAVIN Maintains energy, hormone,
and amino acid production. Helps the body obtain energy from protein,
carbohydrates, and fats. Helps maintain good vision, red blood cells,
and healthy skin. NIACIN Shown to improve circulation
and reduce the cholesterol level in the blood, maintain the nervous
system, metabolize protein, sugar &fat and reduce high blood
pressure. Helps regulate the digestive system and increases energy
through proper utilization of food. PANTOTHENIC ACID Necessary to produce
important hormones, Vitamin D, and red blood cells. Essential for a
variety of body functions, including the maintenance of a healthy
digestive system, and converting food to energy. VITAMIN B6 Supports glycogen and
nitrogen metabolism. Also necessary for the production and maintenance
of red blood cells (hemoglobin),amino acids, nerve function and
tissues, and antibodies. Essential for the body ’s
utilization of protein. Women taking oral contraceptives may have lower
levels of B6. VITAMIN B-12 Not only does vitamin B12
help in the formation of healthy red blood cell s (which protect
against anemia), it is al so involved in the maintenance of the myelin
sheath, the fatty substance that covers nerves and enables them to
function properly. The body also needs this vitamin for cell
replication, proper energy metabolism, and to create the genetic
material in cells known as DNA and RNA. Vitamin B12 is also of
potential value in treating the effects of aging and Alzheimer
’s disease, as well as depression, the skin disorder known as rosacea,
tintinitus (ringing in the ears),and various neurologic probems. It may
also help to prevent heart disease and boost the immune system. FOLIC ACID Folic acid is a
water-soluable vitamin belonging to the B-complex group of vitamins. These vitamins help the body break down complex carbohydrates into
simple sugars to be used for energy. Excess B vitamins are excreted
from the body rather than stored for later use. This is why sufficient
daily intake of folic acid is necessary. BIOTIN A water-soluble B vitamin
that plays an important role in assisting enzymes that metabolize fats,
proteins, and carbohydrates. Helps in the transfer of carbon dioxide
and in various metabolic chemical conversions. VITAMIN C An anti-oxidant that helps
synthesize hormones, amino acids, and collagen, as well as the
excretion of excess cholesterol. Helps heal wounds, strengthen blood
vessels, build connective tissue, and promotes healthy gums, skin,
teeth, and bones. Helps protect against infection and enhances
immunity. Aids in the body ’s absorption of iron. Vitamin C
is water soluble, which means it cannot be stored by your body and must
be frequently replaced. MINERAL BLEND Proprietary blend of 72 key
trace minerals derived from the mineral saturated waters of the Great
Salt Lake. Proper mineral supplementation is vital for good health.
Minerals are essential for the body ’s neurological and
electrolyte functions and the utilization of vitamins by the body. APPLE FIBER Contains 100%Pure Apple Fiber
and may help those with bowel distress due to Apple Fiber ’s
high water binding ability. DIGESTIVE ENZYMES Digestive enzymes digest your
food. With age you lose natural digestive enzymes. Supplemental
digestive enzymes restore these lost enzymes and help nutritional and
gastric disorders like heartburn, indigestion and obesity. When you eat
a meal, digestive enzymes that are released from your salivary glands,
stomach, and small intestine immediately get to work to speed up the
digestive process. Each enzyme acts on a specific type of food. The lack of enzymes leads to
poor digestion, poor absorption, as well as accumulation of undigested
food, material, and metabolic waste. This can lead to food allergies,
overgrowth of parasites, yeast and unfriendly bacteria, indigestion,
constipation, belching, bloating and many other health problems. THUNDER ’S ENZYME
BLEND PROTEASE It is responsible for
digesting proteins in your food, which is probably one of the most
difficult substances to metabolize. Because of this, protease is
considered to be one of the most important enzymes that we have. This
will help to clean up your blood stream, and restore your energy and
balance. AMYLASE Allows digestion of
carbohydrates during their transit through the gastrointestinal tract. LIPASE A lipid (fat digesting
enzyme. Incomplete digestion of fat allows fat to coat food particles
and therefore interferes with the hydrolysis of other food components
such as protein and carbohydrates. ELLULASE To help digest the cellulose
in the diet. SUCRASE An enzyme that catalyzes the
hydrolysis of sucrose into glucose and fructose. MALTASE To help digest maltose
resulting from the amylase hydrolysis of starch. LACTASE To assist in the digestion of
lactose from milk and other dairy products. BROMELAIN Is one of a group of
proteolytic enzymes capable of digesting protein. PROBIOTICS Beneficial bacteria, such as
Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium bifidum, are called
probiotics. Probiotic bacteria favorably alter the intestinal
microflora balance, inhibit the growth of harmful bacteria, promote
good digestion, boost immune function, and increase resistance to
infection. People with flourishing intestinal colonies of beneficial
bacteria are better equipped to fight the growth of disease-causing
bacteria. Probiotic bacteria also produce substances called
bacteriocins, which act as natural antibiotics to kill undesirable
microorganisms. Probiotics also promote healthy digestion. Thunder contains eight of the
Major strains. • Lactobacillus Acidophilus • Lactobacillus Bulgaricus • Bifidobacterium Bifidum • Lactobacillus Rhamnosus • Lactobacillus Casei • Lactobacillus Plantarum • Lactobacillus Brevis • Lactobacillus Caucasicus CHOCOLATE THUNDER TM CONTAINS Servings
per container: 60 Calories 72 Calories
from fat 3.15 Total
Fat 0.35 g Saturated
Fat 0 g Cholesterol
0
g Sodium 55
mg Potassium
168
mg Total
Carbohydrates 4.0 g Fiber
(Apple) 3.75 g Honey
Crystals 1.0 g Protein
14.15
g Peptide
Amino Acids 14 mg Omega
3 Fatty Acids Oil 9 mg Mineral
Blend (ALL
72 Trace Minerals) 5 mg Digestive
Enzyme Blend 50 mg Probiotic
Blend 12.5 mg A
balanced blend of ALL 72 Trace Mineral CHOCOLATE THUNDER TM CONTAINS: (2
scoops a day recommended) Amount % Daily Value Vitamin
A (as
Beta Carotene USP) 2500
IU 50% Vitamin
C (as
Ascorbic Acid-L) 105
mg 175% Calcium (22%
active) 125
mg 25% Vitamin
E (as
d-alpha Tocopherol USP) 15
IU 50% Vitamin
K (as
Phylloquinone) 60
mcg 75% Thiamine (B1
HCl) .75
mg 50% Riboflavin (B2
USP) .85
mg 50% Niacin (as
Niacinamide USP) 10
mg 50% Panothenic
Acid (B5
USP) 2.5
mg 25% Vitamin
B-6 (as
Pyridoxine HCl) 1
mg 50% Vitamin
B-12 (as
Cyanocobalamin) 3
mcg 54% Folic
Acid 75 mcg 18.