Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 02:48:58 GMT
Connection: keep-alive

Stroke-Related Dementia Home Topics A-Z Slideshow Pictures Image Gallery Medications Quizzes Medical Dictionary Health Topics A-Z Health News First Aid Guides Slideshows All Slideshows Newest Slideshows Pet Slideshows Featured Slideshow Black Widow vs. Brown Recluse See Who Wins View Slideshow » Image Gallery (categories) Allergic Skin Disorders Bacterial Skin Diseases Bites and Infestations Diseases of Pigment Fungal Skin Disease Medical Anatomy and Illustrations Noncancerous, Precancerous & Cancerous Tumors Oral Health Conditions Papules, Scales, Plaques and Eruptions Scalp, Hair and Nails Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Vascular, Lymphatic and Systemic Conditions Viral Skin Disease Additional Skin Conditions Featured Image Picture of Psoriasis A reddish, scaly rash often located over the surfaces of the elbows, knees, scalp, and around or in the ears, navel, genitals or buttocks... View Image Gallery » Medications Vitamins and Supplements All Quizzes Skin Pictures Happiness Human Body Sleep Shingles Featured Quiz The Sex & Love Quiz The brain. The body. The bedroom. What do you know? View Quiz » About Us | Privacy | Site Map February 13, 2012 Follow Us On: home > heart health center > heart health a-z list > stroke-related dementia article Font Size A A A 1 2 3 ... Next » (Page 1 of 18) Glossary Stroke-Related Dementia Understanding Stroke Slideshow Pictures Take the Stroke Quiz Medical Author: Kannayiram Alagiakrishnan, MD Medical Editor: Nicholas Y Lorenzo, MD Medical Editor: Mary L Windle, PharmD Medical Editor: Helmi L Lutsep, MD Stroke-Related Dementia Overview Stroke-Related Dementia Causes Stroke-Related Dementia Symptoms When to Seek Medical Care Exams and Tests Stroke-Related Dementia Treatment Self-Care at Home Medical Treatment Medications Surgery Next Steps Follow-up Prevention Outlook Support Groups and Counseling For More Information Web Links Synonyms and Keywords Authors and Editors Stroke-Related Dementia Overview Stroke (“brain 
attack”) is a disease of the blood vessels in and around the brain. It occurs 
when part of the brain does not receive enough blood to function normally and 
the cells die (infarction), or when a blood vessel ruptures (hemorrhagic 
 stroke). Infarction is more common than hemorrhage and has a number of causes; for example, a vessel ( artery ) supplying blood to the brain can become blocked by a fatty deposit ( plaque ), which can form clots and send pieces into vessels further in the brain, or these arteries become thickened or hardened, narrowing the space where the blood flows ( atherosclerosis ). In 
addition, clots can arise in the heart and travel to the brain. Permanent damage to brain cells can result. The symptoms of stroke vary, depending on which part of the brain is affected. Common symptoms of stroke are sudden paralysis 
  or loss of sensation in part of the body (especially on one side), partial loss of vision or double vision, or loss of balance. Loss of bladder and bowel control can also occur. Other symptoms include decline in “cognitive” mental functions such as memory , speech and language, thinking, organization, reasoning, or judgment. Changes in behavior and personality may occur. If these symptoms are severe enough to interfere with everyday activities, they are called dementia. Cognitive decline related to stroke is usually called vascular dementia or 
vascular cognitive impairment to distinguish it from other types of dementia. In the United States, it is the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer's Disease . Vascular dementia is preventable, but only if the underlying vascular disease is recognized and treated early. People who have had a stroke have a 9 times greater risk of dementia than people who have not had a stroke. About 1 in 4 people who have a stroke develop signs of dementia within 1 year. Vascular dementia is most common in older people, who are more likely than younger people to have vascular diseases. It is more common in men than in women. Next Page: Stroke-Related Dementia Causes » 1 2 3 ... Next » (Page 1 of 18) Glossary Privacy Policy WebMD Daily Get breaking medical news. From WebMD Healthy Resources Best Ways to Manage Blood Sugar and Insulin The Warning Signs of Stroke Stroke: Causes and Risk Factors Featured Centers Ask the Nutritionist: Weight Loss Tips Which Drugstore Tooth Whiteners Work Best? Gout: Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Are You Depressed? Fibromyalgia Center Stroke-Related Dementia Progressive Supranuclear Palsy » Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Overview Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare degenerative disease of the brain. The disease impairs movements and balance. Many people with PSP also experience changes in mood, behavior, and personality. A decline in cognitive mental processes, such as thinking, memory, attention, and speech, is not uncommon. When these mental changes are severe enough to interfere with everyday activities, they are called dementia. The name progressive supranuclear palsy seems like a mouthful, but it accurately describes the disease. PSP is progressive, meaning that it gets worse over time. The disease affects the part of the brain above the nuclei (“supranuclear”), which are pea-sized structures in the part of the nervous system that controls eye movements. Palsy means weakness, and it is this characteristic weakness in eye movements for which the disease is named. PSP is sometimes called Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome, after... Read the Progressive Supranuclear Palsy article » Read What Your Physician is Reading on Medscape Vascular Dementia » Vascular dementia is the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer disease (AD). Read More on Medscape Reference » Featured Topics Osteoarthritis Slideshow What is RLS? Heart Disease Pictures Topics Related to Stroke-Related Dementia Cholesterol FAQs CT Scan Diabetes Heart Attack High Blood Pressure High Cholesterol Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Obesity Stroke Heart Health Topics Heart Attack Heart Symptoms Never To Ignore Slideshow Omega-3 Fatty Acids Slideshow Palpitations Heart Disease Slideshow Medical Dictionary or A-Z List Use Pill Finder Find it Now Pill Identifier on RxList quick, easy, pill identification Find a Local Pharmacy including 24 hour pharmacies First Aid & Emergencies | Topics A-Z | Picture Slideshows | Medications | Image Gallery | eTools | Medical Dictionary Definitions About Us | Privacy | Terms of Use | Advertising Policy | Site Map | Contact Us WebMD | Medscape Reference | Medscape | MedicineNet | RxList | BootsWebMD This site complies to the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: Verify here . ©2012 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved. eMedicineHealth does not provide medical