<http://www.childmode.com/?p=22308>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Zarbees: The All-Natural Cough Medicine For Kids That Actually Works — Child Mode Child Mode Home About Contact Celebrities Celebrity Style Children's Fashions Accessories Clothing Footwear Hats Infant Wear Outerwear Swimwear Trends Family Travel Cruises Disney Family Travel News Packages & Discounts Reviews Tips, Products & More Gear Car Seats Carriers Diaper Bags Furniture Nursery Strollers Giveaways Misc. Bath and Body Books Decor Food Links Parenting Reviews Steals and Deals Storage Technology Toys Mom Style News Events Exclusive Interviews New Designers Recall Subscribe Zarbees: The All-Natural Cough Medicine For Kids That Actually Works by Nadia Carriere on December 20, 2011 A couple of months ago I was given a sample of Zarbees , a new cough medicine that is marketed for children. My kids weren’t sick at the time, so I was unable to try it until recently. A couple of weeks ago my girls came down with a terrible case of the flu which then proceeded to turn into a wicked cough. To be honest, I held off using the medicine as I’m not a fan of medication and prefer to use all-natural remedies instead. If I hadn’t been so immediately dismissive and actually looked at the ingredients I would have seen that Zarbees is in fact natural with a very short ingredient list. The ingredients consist of buckwheat honey, water Vitamin C, natural flavors, tartaric acid, zinc gluconate, malic acid and plant extract. Not bad! Zarbees is everything you want in a cough syrup. Thanks to the Vitamin C, it boosts your immune system and the honey sooths your child’s throat. It is drug-free there are no refined sugars or dye and it’s even gluten-free. Smart! Not only does it do an excellent job calming their throats, but my kids love the flavour and prefer the texture to our usual cough syrup from Chinatown, which is incredibly thick and dark. I am so pleased with this stuff that  you better believe we’ll be switching. Even though this is an American brand, it is readily available in Canada! Thankfully, my local drugstore carries Zarbees and I’ve also seen it in Shoppers Drug Mart locations across Ontario. Tagged as: kids natural cough syrup , natural cough syrup , natural cough syrup for kids , Reviews , Zarbees , Zarbees review Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: Recall Alert: Over 22,000 Safety 1st Two-Way Jogging Strollers Next post: Versace Opens Their First Boutique For Kids Search [ ] Pretty Pins & Things About Us Kiddicare is now the leading privately owned baby shop in the UK.  Established in 1974 in Peterborough Kiddicare have been able to uphold a high level of customer service and deliver discounted nursery supplies with confidence. Prams Kiddicare have over 100 different prams to choose from, which are
						suitable for newborn through to toddlers. For more information read our pram reviews . Highchairs Kiddicare stock a range of highchairs which are suitable to use at
						home or when travelling. For more information read our highchair
						reviews . Child Car Seats Child car seats is a very important purchase for any parent.
						Kiddicare stocks a vast range of car seats for all age groups to ensure
						your child is secure in your vehicle. For more information read our child car seat reviews . Pushchairs Kiddicare have over 250 different pushchairs to choose from, which
						are comfortable and easy to set up. For more information read our pushchair reviews . Maclaren Kiddicare has an extensive product range of Maclaren pushchairs, car
						seats and accessories which are suitable for all age ranges. For more
						information read our Maclaren reviews . Maxi-Cosi Kiddicare has an extensive product range of Maxi Cosi car seats,
						pushchairs and accessories which are suitable for all age ranges. For
						more information read our Maxi Cosi reviews . Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIYthemes. Log in Copyright © Child Mode 2010-2011–2012 Celebrities Celebrity Style Children's Fashions Accessories Clothing Footwear Hats Infant Wear Outerwear Swimwear Trends Design Family Travel Cruises Disney Family Travel News Packages & Discounts Reviews Tips, Products & More Fashion Gear Car Seats Carriers Diaper Bags Furniture Nursery Strollers Giveaways Misc. Bath and Body Books Decor DIY & Crafts Food Links Parenting Reviews Steals and Deals Storage Technology Toys Mom Style Maternity News Events Exclusive I