Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatment of hot flashes and night sweats, control of hot flashes 
menopause symptoms, hot flashes menapause Women's Menopause Health Home remedies for hot flashes | Herbal remedy for hot 
    flashes | Treatment for hot flashes 
    night sweats | Controlling hot flashes | Hot Flashes - What Are They? | Control Hot Flashes with 
    Laughter. Treatment for hot flashes and night sweats . The standard treatment prescribed by doctors for many years was synthetic 
      hormone replacement therapy like Premarin, Prempro and Provera. However, a 
      large study of 16,608 healthy women (ages 50-79) changed doctors' 
      understanding about the benefits and risks of taking the routinely 
      prescribed
      menopause medication. They found the risks too high. ( Click 
      here for the study results in their entirely .) Diosgenin cream ingredients | Benefits diosgenin cream | How to use diosgenin cream . | Return to Eden Diosgenin (nicknamed Progesterone) Cream. Do you remember our newsletter 
      last year detailing how Wyeth Pharmaceuticals was attempting to stop 
      compounding pharmacists from prescribing natural progesterone (diosgenin) 
      after their profits fell by more than 57%  from $2.07 billion in 2003 to 
      $800 million in 2004 (after the WHI study had to be stopped)? Well, now they have gone after 
      centers like ours making complaints to the Federal Trade Commission 
      (FTC).  The FTC's position backed by the big pharmaceutical companies is 
      that Dr. John Lee, M.D.'s studies were not scientific and did not rise to 
      the standard of FDA and National Institutes of Health studies, and that 
      our claims about natural progesterone are false, unfair, deceptive, 
      misleading advertising in violation of the law.. (Please read 
    what Dr. Helen Pensanti M.D. has to say about this. Read on to how the study 
    was conducted.) This is an attempt to force women into taking unsafe proven cancer causing synthetic hormones using 
    your tax dollar to harass natural hormone suppliers. We here at the Women's 
    Menopause Health Center refuse to take away your choice of a healthy 
    alternative to Premarin, Prempro and the other dangerous drugs. We are 
    taking a stand against this heavy handed attempt to destroy competition. We 
    are going to fight for your choice of a healthy way to get through menopause 
    comfortably and safely. (Ed. note: This was from our newsletter last year. The 
    continued harassment by the FTC has caused us to discontinue our wonderful 
    product. Do not be forced 
    into taking something that can kill you. You may purchase safe progesterone cream at your local health food store, or find it a lot less 
    expensively on line at places like ebay and yahoo stores. Do not let these heavy handed tactics destroy your health!) The study showed that women taking estrogen and progesterone had a small 
      but higher risk of a heart attack, stroke, blood clots, and breast cancer, 
      and a small but lower risk of colon cancer and broken bones. Even though the study found that hormones lowers a woman's risk of broken 
      hips and colon cancers, the researchers stopped the study after five years 
      because they felt that synthetic estrogen and progesterone were doing more 
      harm than good. Also, results from another recent study of women who had a heart attack in 
      the past showed that women are not reducing their risk of another heart 
      attack by taking Premarin, Prempro, Provera and other similar menopause 
      treatment medications. Now women are re-thinking their menopause treatment options and turning to 
      time-proven natural alternative menopause remedies. These remedies, while 
      efficacious , do take longer to take effect. Care must be taken if trying 
      to combine the old orthodox artificial hormone replacement therapy with 
      the renewed emphasis on herbs and other alternatives as there could be a drug 
      interaction. We here at the Women's Menopause Health Center have excellent results 
      using a progesterone cream in the treatment for hot flashes and night 
      sweats. We believe that our Preserve natural  USP progesterone 
      cream is the best on the market today. Our complete line of Vaxa perimenopause and 
      menopause products work synergistically in the treatment for hot flashes 
      and night sweats also. Choose from Preserve or Eternal-In , which all support 
      different functions, or combine them for better relief with the Women's 
      Strategy Pac. In addition to these excellent 
        products, follow these common sense recommendations for hot flash 
        relief: Dress in layers. Remove and replace 
          layers of clothing as needed. Wear cotton clothing or clothing 
          made of other natural fibers. Natural fibers allow the skin to breathe 
          better than synthetic fibers. At the first sign of hot flashes, 
          drink a glass of cold water. If you happen to be in the kitchen when 
          hot flashes hit, stick your head in the freezer! Keep a thermos of ice water and a 
          fan by the bed at night if prone to night sweats. It also helps to 
          lower the bedroom temperature at night. Use layers of cotton sheets and 
          blankets on the bed as well. If experiencing night sweats, shed a 
          layer or two. Exercise - at least 30 minutes four 
          times weekly. Women who exercise regularly and maintain a balanced 
          diet suffer less from hot flashes. Always consult with your doctor 
          before starting an exercise program. Include sex in your exercise 
          regime. Studies have linked an active sex life to the decrease in hot 
          flashes. Watch the spicy foods. They can 
          increase the internal body temperature and women with hot flashes do 
          not need any more of that. Alcohol, caffeine and hot drinks 
          can also trigger hot flashes. Keep these to a minimum or eliminate 
          them completely from the diet. Use relaxation techniques. Breathe 
          deep and relax at the first sign of hot flashes, knowing the hot flash 
          will pass better with a calmed body. Home 
          remedies for hot flashes | Herbal remedy for hot 
          flashes | Treatment for hot 
          flashes night sweats | Controlling hot flashes | Hot Flashes - What Are They? | Control Hot Flashes with 
          Laughter. How to Cure Night Sweats | Causes for Hot Flashes | Natural Remedy Hot Flashes | What 
		To Do for Night Sweats | Herb Estrogen | What Are Symptoms of Menopause | When 
		Does Perimenopause Start | What is Hypothyroid | Menopause 
		Over the Counter | Bio Hormone Therapy | Hormone Balancing Foods | Symptoms Estrogen Dominance | Symptoms of Menopause Perimenopause | What To Do for Hot Flashes Nutrition Health 709-2 Plaza Dr. #105 Chesterton, IN 46304 (800)959-9036 info at womens-menopause-health 
		.com Copyright © Women's Menopause Health Center - All rights reserved Caution: The products and the claims made 
        about specific products on or through this site have not been evaluated 
        by Women's Menopause Health Center or the United States Food and Drug 
        Administration and are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent 
        disease. The information provided on this site is for informational 
        purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your 
        physician or other health care professional or any information contained 
        on or in any product label or packaging. You should not use the 
        information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health 
        problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You 
        should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, 
        exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if 
        you have or suspect you might have a health problem. The news related to 
        natural vitamins and nutritional supplements have been provided for 
        informational purposes only. Women's Menopause Health Center and all of 
        its affiliates, are not liable for any event following the viewing of 
        th