Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 07 Oct 2011 08:29:10 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "0fad2fcb84cc1:1570"
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Connection: close

Whooping cough Search
        Knowledgebase Whooping cough Whooping cough (pertussis) is a highly contagious bacterial
		  infection ( Bordetella pertussis or B. parapertussis bacteria) of the upper respiratory system, specifically
		  the area where the nasal passages meet the back of the throat (nasopharynx).
		  The infection causes irritated airways and severe coughing spells that often
		  lead to a characteristically loud whooping or crowing sound as air is
		  inhaled. Symptoms can occur in three distinct stages that altogether may
		  last 6 to 10 weeks or longer. The first stage is cold-like symptoms, including
		  sneezing, runny nose, and mild coughing. The second stage is a dry, hacking
		  cough that changes to bursts of uncontrollable, often violent coughing. The
		  third stage is a cough that sounds worse. Severe coughing spells may cause
		  vomiting, exhaustion, and a blue tint to the skin and nail beds. Although whooping cough can occur at any age, it is of greatest
		  concern in children younger than 4 months and adults ages 60 or older, because
		  their risk of complications is higher than that of other people. The disease
		  may be prevented or controlled if a child gets periodic immunizations with the
		  pertussis vaccine between 2 months and 6 years of age. But the protection
		  provided by the vaccine wears off over time. A booster shot is recommended for
		  teens and adults. Taking antibiotics early in the illness may help shorten the
		  illness or prevent it from progressing to the stage in which severe coughing
		  spells occur. Babies with whooping cough may need hospitalization, especially
		  when they are younger than 4 months of age. Complications include infection (such as pneumonia) or problems
		  related to the straining during coughing spells, such as a hernia. In rare
		  cases, whooping cough can cause death. Last Revised: February 26, 2010 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: Susan C. Kim, MD - Pediatrics & Donald Sproule, MD, CM, CCFP, FCFP - Family Medicine & Christine Hahn, MD - Epidemiology Print Help This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2011 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the