
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 13:29:18 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
X-Pingback: http://npdrugs.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Valium (Diazepam) Online Pharmacies FAQ's Contact Home » Popular » Valium (Diazepam) Archive for the ‘Valium (Diazepam)’ Category « Older Entries Mother’s Little Helper: The Rise and fall of Valium Tuesday, December 8th, 2009 The Creation of Valium aka Diazepam. Forty-Six years ago, Dr. Leo Sternbach of Hoffmann-Le Roche made his second benzodiazepine which was twice as potent as his first creation, Librium or chlordiazepoxide.  This drug has propelled him to pharmaceutical giant status and became the top selling mild sedative in the United States from 1969-1982.  It reached its peak in sales in 1978 with Americans popping in 2.3 billion tablets in that year alone.  It found its place in pop culture through Rolling Stone’s 1960’s hit “Mother’s Little Helper”. Who could forget that tragic housewife plagued with addiction to this drug in this unforgettable hit single?  Until the introduction of other shorter-acting, non-addictive drugs in the market, valium enjoyed its popularity for more than two decades as the leading cure for anxiety. To Buy Valium Online Click Here . During its peak, the media abound with news of its rampant abuse.  Its increasing notoriety coupled with the creation of other faster acting non-addictive sedatives like anxyolotics, Valium fell to the 4 th rank as America’s most popular drug.  Added to that, reports of the link between the drug’s use and the development of cancer cells contributed further to its waning popularity.  Despite this, mother’s little helper still enjoys unsurpassed fame in other parts of the globe.  In Australia, valium represents 82% of the benzodiazepine market along with three other drugs of this kind.  In the United Kingdom, the shortage of heroine has opted drug users to turn to diazepam to ease their cocaine crackdown. A quote about mothers little helper, valium by the rolling stones; “She goes running for the shelter of a mother’s little helper And it helps her on her way, gets her through her busy day…” Mother’s Little Helper, The Rolling Stones Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off Generic Valium (Diazepam) Now For Pets Monday, November 30th, 2009 Even Kitty and Rover can benefit from the calming effects of Valium or Diazepam.  Diazepam, one of the most prescribed benzodiazepines or mild sedatives by doctors can also be prescribed by vets for treatment of anxiety and behavioral problems, relieve epileptic convulsions and also for appetite stimulation. Benzodiazepines are also called Central Nervous System (CNS) depressants since they work directly on the brain.  Although the precise mechanism of action is not exactly known, specific benzodiazepines receptors are found in the brain as well as lungs, heart and kidneys. Buy Valium Online (more…) Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off Taking Valium with Other Medication Thursday, November 19th, 2009 When prescribed with valium, always warn your doctor that you’re also taking other medications.  Some medicines may interact with valium and more often than not, it may have some adverse effects.  Always inform your health care provider if you are regularly taking these medications: Drugs that make you drowsy or sleepy (cough medicine, narcotic pain killers, downers like other sedatives, sleeping pills, muscle relaxers and medicine for depression, convulsions or anxiety).  This could double the sleepiness caused when you buy diazepam . Hydantoins, rifamycins or St. John’s Wort because they might decrease the effectiveness of valium.  Some examples of these drugs are phenytoin (for hydantoins), and rifampins (for rifamycins). Ketoconazole (anti fungal), barbiturates like amobarbital, butabarbital mephobarbital, secobarbital or Phenobarbital; antibiotics. MAOIs (monoamine oxidase inhibitors), disulfram, phenothiazines, or other medicines for mood problems as they may also increase the risk of other diazepam side effects. Medications for treatment of psychiatric disorders like aripiprazole and chlorpromazine Hydantoins like phenytoin. There are a lot more substances that may reduce effectiveness or increase the adverse side effects of diazepam when combined with this drug.  Your health care provider may be able to provide you with a list of medications that may not go well with diazepam so do check with your doctor or physician before starting with this medication. Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off When To Avoid Using Valium ( Diazepam ) Monday, November 16th, 2009 Taking valium or diazepam may be habit forming and this should be prescribed by a doctor or a physician.  This should not be shared with another person especially with someone who has a history of substance abuse or addiction.  Keep it in a secure place out of reach of children or where others cannot get to it. Before you order cheap Valium online , find a place in your home to safely store the drug. Valium should not be used when: • You are allergic to diazepam.  That is why it is advisable to consult a doctor before taking this drug. •	You have myasthenia gravis.  ** •	You have narrow angle glaucoma. •	You are pregnant or lactating.  Valium can cause birth defects.  Also, this drug can also pass into breast milk and can harm your baby. •	 Severe liver or kidney disease since this is metabolized in the liver. •	You have sleep apnea or difficulty breathing during sleep. •	You are taking ritonavir or other HIV portease inhibitors or sodium oxybate. •	Bipolar Personality ** This is a neuromuscular disease leading to fatigue and fluctuating levels of muscular weakness. It is caused by selective overactivity of the body’s immune system in which a patient produces antibodies against a particular target in his or her own body. It is characterized by painless weakness of voluntary muscles which gets worse with repeated use of the muscle or body part. Symptoms fluctuate or usually get worse by the end of the day, during hot weather or post infection. In women, it usually happens during or before period. Remember, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.  Always consult a doctor before you buy diazepam or buy any other drug for that matter. Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off How Does Valium Affect Gaba Levels Saturday, November 14th, 2009 Valium, which is also known as Diazepam, was first approved for use in 1960. It was developed by Dr. Leo Sternbach of Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, and it’s primarily used to treat anxiety and sleep disorders, along with certain disorders of the nervous system, and to relieve withdrawal symptoms from alcohol and opiates. It’s one of a set of drugs known as benzodiazepines, It is known to have a strong sedative effect, similar to Barbiturates, but less extreme, and somewhat safer. It was the top selling drug in the US from 1969 to 1982. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (Also known as GABA) has sometimes been called the body’s natural tranquilizer. GABA’s function is to block communication between different brain cells, and calm nerve impulses. Raising the levels of GABA slows down the brains activity, and lowering it speeds up brain activity, leading to nervousness and anxiety. Before opting to buy Valium , understand it works by targeting the receptors for GABA, almost functioning as a synthetic replacement for the brain chemical. Alcohol and Barbiturates also work by either simulating GABA, or raising the levels of the chemical, and there are many other drugs that have since been developed that do the same thing. The effects on the body of raised GABA levels are basically identical to the effects of Valium and other depressants. It tends to calm and relax people, and depending on the dosage, it often makes people drowsy. Overdose can cause mental confusion, and impaired motor function. In more extreme cases, it can even cause coma or death. Valium can be addictive if taken for a long period of time, and abuse of the drug is a very common problem. People who abuseValium over a long period of time suffer extreme withdrawal symptoms when they stop, including convulsions. A gradual process of slowly decreasing doses is the recommended method of coming off the drug. Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off How does Generic Valium stack up against Brand Name? Tuesday, September 8th, 2009 Nowadays, drug manufacturers make generic medicines available so they are more reasonable to individuals who cannot afford the brand name drug. At times, government intervention steps in to require these pharmaceutical companies to offer generic forms. Other times, these companies make them available when the original brand name drug is created and brought to market. Generics, in order to be approved for consumption, must be proven to be safe and provide the same level of effectiveness as their parent brand name form of the drug. Valium, or Diazepam for the generic form, is a drug prescribed for anxiety and/or panic attacks. Many individuals rely on this medication to make it through a day without getting uncomfortable or even debilitating anxiety and panic. Individuals who skip doses can experience severe anxiety or panic that can be both dangerous and uncomfortable. Diazepam, the generic form of Valium, is just as effective as the brand name Valium but costs much less. Not everyone can afford to buy drugs from a doctor, which is why thousands of people buy cheap valium from india . In most cases, if the doctor fails to write the prescription for Diazepam and writes it for Valium, the pharmacy will not be able to give the individual a generic. Rather than be bothered with the hassle of scheduling, visiting, and begging for prescriptions many people have chosen to buy online. Diazepam is the most popular generic equivalent of Valium. There are, however, other generic forms of Valium but none have as good of a reputation as Diazepam does. Other makers located in China, Mexico, Asia, and India are said to be less reputable and some say it is dangerous to try these ill-established forms of Valium because you never really know what you are getting. Because buying Diazepam has grown in popularity rapidly, and is made of the same exact substance as brand name Valium, it is the only safe generic alternative. Not only is Diazepam safe because it is made from the same thing as Valium and has been around for years, it is way cheaper. The range one would pay for brand name Valium, for a 90-day supply, is anywhere from $300-$400, while Diazepam will run an individual anywhere from $15-$30. Diazepam is approved by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration). Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off Herbal Extracts vs Prescription Drugs For Anxiety Tuesday, September 1st, 2009 The most potent, and popular anxiety treating medication in America is Xanax. Xanax is a benzodiazepine, this class of drugs is responsible for slowing nervous system functions to normal speed in anxious people. Xanax has a stigma attached to it, along with all other prescription drugs. It has become a joke, that treating one disorder leads to 10 new problems that also need treatment. Some of the news we publish here at NPDrugs is biased towards the motive of the article writer. This article in peticular is biased towards herbal supplements and other natural anxiety agents. These “natural cures” are useful to a small number of people, the majority however continue to buy valium , xanax , and similar drugs for proven relief. Always read opinionated, and suggestive content with a skeptics eye. The side-effects aside, Xanax is the fastest acting anxiety drug available and can calm a panic attack in a matter of 10 minutes. Some herbal drugs claim to do the same, and they work just as effectively. SO why would anyone buy xanax online, if they can buy herbal anxiety drugs cheaper? It comes down to programming and the degree of the disorder being treated. Someone experiencing mild panic attacks may opt for natural cures to save money and avoid addiction. But another person may suffer extreme panic attacks, and opt to buy Xanax because it is proven in clinical trials. Some families are raised to take drugs all their life, while others parents wont even give them nyquil to get a good nights sleep. Another one of the popular and powerful anxiety drugs is Valium which has been on the market now for a very long time. These drugs should never be taken with alcohol as they may cause even more problems and they may also induce even more anxiety and drowsiness so that driving a car may well be dangerous. A natural anti anxiety medicine which uses herbs is ideal for the average mildly anxious person, and it has he same treatment ability as a small dose of Xanax or Valium you can buy here. As always, research everything yourself. Should you choose to buy anything online, make sure you have read about the product and its safe for you to ingest. Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off Inventor Of Valium Dies At Age 97 Friday, August 28th, 2009 Leo Sternbach, the inventor of a revolutionary new class of tranquilizers that included Valium, one of the first blockbuster “lifestyle” drugs, has died at his home in North Carolina. He was 97. Sternbach, an award-winning chemist who helped the Swiss drug conglomerate Roche Group build its U.S. headquarters in Nutley, New Jersey, after fleeing the Nazis during World War II, died in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, after a short illness late Wednesday. His wife, sons and other relatives were at his side, according to the company. It is a sad day when such an influential and successful scientist passes away. Leo Sternbach gave the world back some of the peace it once had with his prescription drug Valium. Buy Valium Online now and experience what Leo gave the world. Valium owes its success to the stubborn streak of chemist Leo Sternbach, who refused to quit after his boss at Hoffmann-La Roche ended a project to develop a tranquilizer to compete with a rival company’s drug. Sternbach tested one last version and in just a day, he got the results: The compound made animals relaxed and limp. Sternbach had made the discovery that eventually led to Valium. It was approved for use in 1963 and became the country’s most prescribed drug from 1969 to 1982. Roche sold nearly 2.3 billion Valium pills stamped with the trademark “V” at the drug’s 1978 peak. “It gave you a feeling of well-being,” Sternbach told The Associated Press in a 2003 interview on the 40th anniversary of Valium. “Only when the sales figures came in, then I realized how important it was.” Named one of the 25 most influential Americans of the 20th century by U.S. News & World Report, Sternbach’s credits include 241 patents, 122 publications, honorary degrees and other awards. As recently as 1994, Roche products for which Sternbach held patents brought in more than one-quarter of the company’s worldwide pharmaceutical revenues. Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off Anxiety Over Medicare Benzo Ban Thursday, August 27th, 2009 When the federal government’s new prescription drug benefit kicks in next year, it will not cover a category of drugs commonly used to treat anxiety, insomnia and seizures. That means those disabled and elderly people on Medicare who take Xanax, Valium, Ativan and other types of the drug benzodiazepine will have to look elsewhere for coverage or switch to a different, less addictive medication. Because the New Drug Benefit Program wont cover the most common benzos, its a good idea to buy your drugs online. Generally people buy ambien , xanax , and buy valium online. Finding other alternatives may not be easy for the 1.7 million low-income, elderly people who take the drug and will be automatically enrolled in the new prescription drug plan. They will depend on the states to continue paying for their benzodiazepines — “benzos” for short — on Jan. 1, but with no guarantee. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently urged state Medicaid directors to provide coverage of the drugs for the 6.3 million people who are “duel eligible” for prescription aid under the Medicaid and Medicare programs. If states agree, they will continue to get federal matching funds when they pay for benzos. But concerns remain among medical professionals and advocates for the elderly about what would happen if some states opt to save money by excluding benzos from their Medicaid program for the poor. “Stopping the therapy abruptly can lead to seizures and dangerous, life-threatening problems,” said Thomas Clark, policy director for the American Society of Consultant Pharmacists. [read more...] Posted in Valium (Diazepam) | Comments Off Benzodiazepines Proven Effective For Alcohol Withdrawl Thursday, August 6th, 2009 While we all know that alcohol intoxication can cause people to do some pretty bizarre things, such as jumping from balconies to dancing wildly, when in fact alcohol actually has a depressant effect on the neurons in the brain. This means that neurons are less likely to “fire” and overall brain activity is decreased. A problem arises when a person v to withdrawal from alcohol such that the neurons which have been suppressed go into overdrive and start to fire more than they normally would, resulting in increased brain activity. This increased brain activity, seen during alcohol withdrawal, may even lead to seizures and hallucinations. Buy Valium, Xanax, & Ambien Online Benzodiazepines have a similar effect on the brain in that they induce depression of the nervous system similar to alcohol, as these substances are both known as depressants. Currently, benzodiazepines are the first line medication for the treatment of alcohol withdrawal symptoms, which may include rapid heart rate, confusion, hallucinations, as well as seizures and the more serious delirium tremens. Studies, such as one completed at the University of Ioannina School of Medicine, show that benzodiazepines are more effective than placebo in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal symptoms. However, benzodiazepines are not without their own risks, one of which is addiction. Benzodiazepines, such as valium , have been used for decades for the treatment of disorders such as anxiety and insomnia. However, when used for extended amounts of time, patients often become addicted to this class of medications. New research indicates that benzodiazepine trigger the same dopamine reward system that cocaine affects to produce a strong addictive effect. Eventually researchers may search for an alternative to benzodiazepines in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal symptoms and delirium tremens. Currently, benzodiazepines are used in emergency rooms and detoxification centers nationwide to treat alcohol withdraw patients. However, as patients in detoxification are weaned from alcohol, some researchers worry that they be trading one powerfully addictive drug for another, as alcohol is known to affect the same dopamine reward system that benzodiazepines act on. As the addictive potential of benzodiazepines is more thoroughly researched, physicians might become less likely to prescribe these medications to patients with anxiety and insomnia as SSRIS, or selective serotonin inhibitors, are a reasonable alternative to benzodiazepines for many of the psychiatric conditions that benzodiazepines are currently prescribed for. Posted in Valium (Diazepam) , Xanax (Alprazolam) | Comments Off « Older Entries Buy Most Popular Ambien Ativan Celebrex Cialis Clonazepam Codeine Imitrex Phentermine Propecia Soma Tramadol Valium Viagra Xanax Li