Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 05:53:22 GMT
X-Varnish: 4207504537
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Swanson Health Products - Daily Tips: Find Yourself With a UTI? Flush It Out! Swanson Health Products - Daily Tips You'll learn how to start a vitamin and supplement regimen, improve your current wellness program, and discover natural solutions, including cutting-edge anti-aging hints, for your everyday health needs. Start off each morning with insightful information on men's, women's, and children's health--plus helpful health tips for your pets. You'll find our daily health tips, just like Swanson Health Products, are about much more than just how discount vitamins and supplements can support a healthy lifestyle! Home Archives Subscribe « Hemp: Not Just for Hippies Anymore! | Main | How to Begin Making Homemade Organic Cleaners » April 17, 2009 Find Yourself With a UTI? Flush It Out! A UTI, or urinary tract infection, is no fun way to spend your days. These infections are painful and often are made worse when you go to the bathroom. Though your health care provider can prescribe antibiotics to ward off the infection, you have some choices for how to handle the pain and help yourself get better quickly. First, start downing that cranberry juice! Though cranberry juice is excellent for good preventive urinary tract health, it also helps end a urinary tract problem once you have it. So reach for the cranberry juice when you want something tasty and are dealing with a UTI. Other than that, drink water. Flushing out your bladder will help rid your body of the bacteria causing the infection, so drinking more water can help you get better faster. Also, try basic home remedies, such as using a heating pad for the pain, which can be pretty intense for some people. Try to avoid painkillers when possible and instead take it easy for a day or two. Posted at 08:00 AM in Urinary Tract Health | Permalink Technorati Tags : antibiotics , bathroom , cranberry juice , flushing , health care provider , heating pad , infections , painful , swanson vitamins , urinary tract infection , UTI , water TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83453919869e2011570117755970b Listed below are links to weblogs that reference Find Yourself With a UTI? Flush It Out! : Comments You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the comment feed for this post. Verify your Comment Previewing your Comment Posted by: | This is only a preview. Your comment has not yet been posted. Your comment could not be posted. Error type: Your comment has been saved. Comments are moderated and will not appear until approved by the author. Post another comment The letters and numbers you entered did not match the image. Please try again. As a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below. This prevents automated programs from posting comments. Having trouble reading this image? View an alternate. Post a comment Comments are moderated, and will not appear until the author has approved them. Comment below or sign in with TypePad Facebook Twitter and more... You are currently signed in as (nobody) . Sign Out (URLs automatically linked.) Your Information (Name and email address are required. Email address will not be displayed with the comment.) Name is required to post a comment Please enter a valid email address Invalid URL Name: Email address: URL: Comment: Categories Anti-Aging Aromatherapy Ayurvedic Herbs Bone Health Cardiovascular Health Children's Health Circulatory Health Cleansing and Detoxifying Colon Health Digestive Health Emotional Health Energy and Fitness Essential Fatty Acids First Aid Going Green Green Cleaning Hair, Skin and Nails Healthy Foods Immune Support Joint Health Memory and Brain Health Men's Health Oral Health Organic Food Overall Health & Wellness Pet Health Respiratory Health Seasonal Wellness Sleep Stress Relief Supplements for Beginners Urinary Tract Health Vision Health Weight Loss Women's Health Subscribe to this blog's feed Swanson Homepage Ubiquinol CoQ10 Health Library OnSaleNow! Swanson Outlet Mall Abou