
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5,Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727,4.0.30319
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET,ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 16:36:29 GMT
Connection: close

Antibiotics better than cranberries for bladder infections - Health - Women's health - msnbc.com Jump to story headline MSN Hotmail More Autos My MSN Video Careers & Jobs Personals Weather Delish Quotes White Pages Games Real Estate Wonderwall Horoscopes Shopping Yellow Pages Local Edition Traffic Feedback Maps & Directions Travel Full MSN Index Bing msnbc.com sites & shows: TODAY Rock Center Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Morning Joe Hardball Ed Maddow The Last Word msnbc tv Home US World Politics Business Sports Entertainment Health Tech & science Travel Local Weather Women's health on msnbc.com Search Advertise | AdChoices Antibiotics beat cranberries in battle against bladder infections But berry has a major upside against UTIs -- fewer side effects and no pesky drug resistance Below: x Jump to discuss comments below discuss x Next story in Women's health Women gain weight after marriage, men after divorce related Advertise | AdChoices By Linda Carroll msnbc.com contributor updated 7/25/2011 4:45:53 PM ET 2011-07-25T20:45:53 Print Font: + - When it comes to preventing recurrent bladder infections, cranberry capsules do not work as well as daily antibiotics, a new study shows. But the supplements do have a real upside: they are less likely to have side effects and to spark the growth of antibiotic resistant strains of bacteria. Don't miss these Health stories EPA file Last will and contempt? The pain of being disinherited Some do it with malice. Others, through a misguided notion that money or family heirlooms don't really matter to the person. Did a sinus infection cause Ashley Judd's puffy face? Parents' last resort: Opiate antidote saves lives Pap smear every five years? Panel says it's safe Why do some voices seem set at top volume? For women who are concerned about drug-resistant bacteria, the use of cranberry for the prevention of urinary tract infections may be the best approach, Dr. Marielle A. J. Beerepoot and her colleagues concluded in a study in the Archives of Internal Medicine on Monday. The new study followed 221 pre-menopausal women who reported having at least three urinary tract infections, or UTIs, in the previous year. Beerepoot, a researcher with the Academic Medical Center in Amsterdam, randomly chose 110 of the women to be treated with daily doses of an antibiotic, while the other 111 were treated with capsules containing 500 mg of cranberry twice a day for a year. By end of the study, there were more than twice as many UTIs in the cranberry treated group, compared to those who got antibiotics – 4 percent versus 1.8 percent. After just one month, though, 86.3 percent of the E coli samples from the antibiotic-treated women were showing resistance to the medications. That’s compared to 23.7 percent from women treated with cranberry supplements. It's no surprise that cranberry isn't as effective as antibiotics, but they still may hold more appeal for many patients, said Dr. Megan Schimpf, an assistant clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. “There are women who would prefer to take something natural with a lower risk of side effects, even if they know that they’ll have slightly increased risk of a urinary tract infection,” according to Schimpf. Studies like this might tempt women to treat themselves rather than seeing a doctor first. That's a bad idea. “We know that women can sometimes mix up urinary tract infections with vaginal infections with yeast or bacteria,” she explained. “And there is a concern that the urinary tract infection is already severe enough to have generated a kidney infection. Those usually come with fever and back pain.” For women who want to eschew antibiotics, there are other choices these days, Schimpf said. She treats her patients with an antiseptic medication called Hiprex (methenamine). “It’s a medication that gets metabolized into a compound in the urine that makes it very unfavorable for bacteria to grow,” Schimpf said. “I tell my patients to combine that with cranberry.” © 2012 msnbc.com. Reprints Advertise | AdChoices Advertise | AdChoices Advertise | AdChoices Discuss: Discussion comments “ ” Expand Collapse , Reply Advertise | AdChoices Advertise | AdChoices Advertise | AdChoices View all comments Leave your comment You Most active discussions votes comments votes comments votes comments votes comments Show discussion Related: Women's health Advertise | AdChoices Women's health Pap smear every five years? Panel says it's safe Few women getting tested for chlamydia: CDC New hot flash remedy? Self help, study suggests Daily drink may reduce stroke chance FDA approves 3rd silicone breast implant Top health stories Last will and contempt? The pain of being disinherited Amid controversy, health law changes under way Did a sinus infection cause Ashley Judd's puffy face? Heavy dudes have worse sperm 7 things you need to know to keep kids safe online Related videos & slideshows Video Arizona bill could require medical reason for birth control Video Pennsylvania governor supports ultrasound bill Video Surprising health clues your eyes give away Video Will intense workout help prevent injuries? Search Most popular on msnbc.com Categories All US & World Politics Business Sports Entertainment Health Tech & science Travel Most popular Trending Views Loading popular content ... Popular stories currently unavailable Top videos Popular videos currently unavailable msnbc.com sites & shows: TODAY Rock Center Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Morning Joe Hardball Ed Maddow The Last Word msnbc tv © 2012 msnbc.com About us Help Advertise Careers Contact Alerts Feeds Podcasts Apps Widgets Stock data MSN Privacy Terms & conditions About our ads Site map Jump to text When it comes to preventing recurrent bladder in... Jump to discussion Antibiotics beat cranb