
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 17:10:08 GMT
Server: LiteSpeed
Connection: close
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: frontend=c0amhfh46m3e2jngs14ps1cqo2; expires=Wed, 15-Feb-2012 18:10:08 GMT; path=/; domain=.integratedhealth.com; httponly
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Vary: User-Agent

ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES JavaScript seem to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Search Health Products Distributors, Inc. Welcome to HPDI! My Account My Cart Checkout Log In Home Product Recommendations RECOMMENDED PRODUCTS FOR: Active Seniors Allergy Support / Prevention Basic Nutrition Blood Sugar Control Bones, Joints, Tissue Children Cleansing & Detox Cold & Flu Digestive System Energy / Vitality Environmental Sensitivities Eyes & Vision Heart Health Men's Health Mental Alertness Pain Management Peak Performance Skin, Hair & Nails Sleep & Relaxation Stress Relief Women's Health Specials / New Sales & Closeouts On Sale Now! Featured Products Package Deals Close Outs New Products Warrior Mist Warrior Sleep The HPDI Difference How we're different Our Promise to You The HPDI Difference Statement on Additives (Excipients) A Letter from Dr. Hank Liers A Brief Biography of Dr. Liers Foundational Supplements Cover Letter Product Overviews Product Overviews All of our products are carefully designed to be the most potent, bioavailable supplements available.  HPDI products are backed by current research and supported with comprehensive literature. HPDI Product Overviews Abstracts and Research Foundational Supplements Rejuvenate! Product Comparison DOWNLOADS: HPDI Product Guide (pdf) Foundational Supplements booklet (pdf) Full Product Price List (pdf) Product Summary (pdf) Vitamin D3 Plus Brochure (pdf) 2DOCS Pet Supplements Health Recommendations Index Articles Charts / Tests Coenzyme Vitamins Statement on Additives (Excipients) Newsletter Archive Radio Broadcasts Recommended Reading Recipes Testimonials Rejuvenation Program The Master Rejuvenation Program Our Master Rejuvenation Program consists of our very best recommendations and practices which are designed to rejuvenate, regenerate, and restore maximum vitality. The HPDI Master Rejuvenation Program Rejuvenation Downloads Rejuvenate! Product Comparison Rejevenate! Products Rejuvenate! Rejuvenate! Berries & Herbs Rejuvenate! PLUS Rejuvenate! PRO Strawberry Peach Protein Plus Our foundational supplement formulas are four basic supplement groups that establish a foundation for health. Cover Letter Introducing Foundational Supplements Foundational Supplements in Detail The Need for Foundational Supplements (pdf) Our Company Our Company Health Products Distributors, Inc., has been serving health-conscious people for more than 20 years. Who we are: Mission Statement Customer Feedback Employment Opportunities The HPDI Team How to Order by Phone Return Policy Domestic Shipping Policies International Shipping Policies Find us on Facebook! Customer Support For orders and product inquiries (including wholesale), our sales team is available by phone Mon-Fri, 9 am-11:45 am, and 1-4:30 pm, Arizona time. Orders (toll-free): 800-228-4265 Service: 520-896-9193 Contact Us Sign-up for our Newsletter Wholesale Support Wholesale Information Wholesale Application Home / ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES VIEW ALL PRODUCTS Product Categories Amino Acids / Polysaccharides Antioxidants Foundational Supplements Herbal Formulas Hormones / Steroid Precursors Magnesium Oil / Flakes / Gel Metabolic Activators Minerals Oils / Fatty Acids / Lipids Probiotics / Enzymes / Foods Rejuvenate!™ Products Special Formulas Superfoods Vitamin C Products Vitamin Formulas 2DOCS Pet Supplements On Sale Now Featured Products ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES Ultra Pure Minerals from an Ancient Zechstein Seabed Rapid Uptake of Magnesium into Cells Boosts Energy, Reduces Pain,                           Relaxes Muscles, Supports Heart, Brain, Skin, and all Organ Systems Ancient Minerals Magnesium Flakes Magnesium Flakes 1.65 lb. $9.75 Magnesium Flakes 6.5 lb. $55.00 Magnesium Flakes 32 lb. $150.00 Quantity: Add to Cart You might also like: Ancient Minerals Magnesium Oil Ancient Minerals Magnesium Gel Ancient Minerals Magnesium Lotion Nascent Iodine Myo-Mag Tri-Mag Rejuvenate!™ Rejuvenate!™ Pro Rejuvenate!™ Plus Rejuvenate Berries & Herbs Bone Jour Bone Guardian Cal/Mag Plus Additional Resources: Magnesium Abstracts ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES are an exceptionally pure source of magnesium chloride (MgCl2).  Magnesium flakes not only contain high levels of magnesium, but also  many trace minerals. When used transdermally (i.e., across the skin),  magnesium chloride is rapidly absorbed, thereby quickly boosting  magnesium levels in the body. This effect not only can restore healthy  levels of magnesium to muscles (and ultimately to cells throughout the  body), but also thereby can provide the body with all the benefits  associated with high levels of magnesium. Benefits may include the  relief of aches and pains (e.g., as in fibromyalgia), increased energy  (as magnesium is involved in the production of ATP), support of cardiac  tissues and the cardiovascular system (magnesium being a natural muscle  nourisher and relaxant), support of processes of detoxfication, support  of brain function (which depends upon ATP), improvement of mood and  reduction of tension-related stress, support for healthy skin, and  numerous other health benefits. Ultra Pure Ancient Minerals  are the “Best Magnesium Flakes” for  Transdermal Magnesium Therapy. In  fact, Ancient Minerals is the brand most recommended by health  professionals and knowledgeable researchers, including Dr. Mark Sircus. Please note we add $8 per box of the 32lb Magnesium Flakes to help cover the cost of shipping this heavy item. ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES are ultra-pure, highly concentrated crystals of magnesium chloride  (MgCl2) sourced from the ancient Zechstein seabed in northern Europe.   These magnesium flakes are extremely pure because the seabed lies 1,600   to 2,000 meters beneath the surface of the earth, where it has been   protected for 250 million years. The oil thereby provides high levels of  magnesium and trace elements from pure, unpolluted deposits found in  this ancient sea. The flakes provide high levels of magnesium (47%  magnesium chloride)  and trace elements from ultra-pure, unpolluted  deposits found in this  ancient seabed. These extremely pure magnesium  flakes offer very low  sodium content. Magnesium flakes are  especially beneficial when used in  baths or footbaths. Using these  ultra-pure  flakes is among the most cost-effective means to raise   levels magnesium in the body via transdermal application. ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES are  ideal for use  transdermally (i.e., acting across the skin surface).  Transdermal application allows the body  to absorb as much magnesium as  it may require. Unlike oral magnesium  supplementation (which is  characterized by certain limits on the rate  and amount of uptake and  assimilation), magnesium applied directly on  skin via baths or  footbaths (i.e., transdermal application) can rapidly  and effectively  raise tissue (and cellular) levels of magnesium. Topical  application of dissolved magnesium flakes (e.g., in a bath)  simultaneously provides energy  and relaxes muscles. This means users  will be primed for peak  performance, being relaxed and energized. Users  also report deeper,  more restful sleep, reduced stress, and greater  well being. CONSIDERATIONS AND APPLICATIONS Because of  relatively low  cost and weight, and  a higher concentration of magnesium chloride than  magnesium oils (i.e., 47% magnesium for  flakes versus approx. 34% for  magnesium  oil), ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES are a very cost-effective means (i.e., costing about fifty percent less  than ocean-water-sourced magnesium oils) of rapidly elevating magnesium  levels in the body. Unlike magnesium oils, the flakes do not contain  significant amounts of water. The flakes consequently are a more highly  concentrated form of magnesium chloride than magnesium oil. The flakes  conveniently may be added to filtered or purified water (e.g., distilled  water) to produce a homemade magnesium oil. In this respect, one of the  advantages of flakes is providing you with the ability to create small  quantities of magnesium chloride solution as needed, and to produce a  solution as concentrated as you may require. These flakes  are ideal for travel because they are not in a liquid state and because  of their relatively low weight. They  are also useful for applications   demanding  portability and  larger amounts of magnesium chloride (e.g.,   multiple uses or larger quantities per application) than might be  available when using magnesium oil. In particular, these flakes are  popular with health care practitioners because flakes are easy to store  and to dispense to clients. For these reasons, many individuals  prefer the flake form of magnesium chloride, especially for use in baths  and footbaths. In addition, many persons enjoy creating their own  magnesium oil from ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES to a concentration they desire. The flakes provide viable options when  considering the flexibility they offer in terms of portability,  concentration, and cost. Other individuals prefer to use  a prepared magnesium oil that comes in a spray bottle, can be  applied directly and immediately on  skin, or  poured  into a bath or footbath. Many people  use both magnesium  flakes and magnesium oil depending  upon their immediate requirements and desires, and what is most  convenient to use at the time. Magnesium flakes are one of the most  easy-to-use forms of magnesium chloride,  providing a flexibility and  ease of use that many users appreciate. MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE (MgCl2) SOME BENEFITS  / APPLICATIONS INCREASE S ENERGY BY GREATER PRODUCTION OF ATP (ADENOSINE TRIPHOSPHATE) IN CELLS RELAXES MUSCLES / REDUCES MUSCLE TENSION • BOOSTS VITALITY, ENDURANCE, AND STRENGTH IMPROVES CARDIOVASCULAR / HEART HEALTH ( RELAXES CARDIAC MUSCLE) RELIEVES PAIN, INCLUDING CHRONIC PAIN • IDEAL FOR ARTHRITIS / FIBROMYALGIA / JOINT PAIN IMPROVES HEALTH OF SKIN AND MUCOUS MEMBRANES USE ORALLY FOR STRONG TEETH AND HEALTHY GUMS EASES HEADACHES AND MIGRAINE HEADACHES IN SPORTS MEDICINE — REPLENISHES MG LEVELS FOR ENERGY ( COMBATS FATIGUE, AND SOOTHES PAIN AND SORE  MUSCLES) • TOTAL BODY TONIC — REVITALIZES AND REJUVENATES BODY (PROVIDES RAPIDLY ABSORBED MG  TO RESTORE LEVELS NEEDED FOR OPTIMAL CELL                     PHYSIOLOGY AND FUNCTION) • IMPROVES MOOD AND REDUCES STRESS • INCREASES MEMORY AND COGNITIVE FUNCTIONS • BOOSTS IMMUNE SYSTEM IMPROVES ASSIMILATION OF CALCIUM / BUILDS STRONGER BONES BALANCES CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM LEVELS IN CELLS PROVEN ANTIMICROBIAL AND ANTISEPTIC RAISES DHEA LEVELS NATURALLY EASES MENOPAUSE AND PREMENSTRUAL SYNDROME (PMS) SUPPORTS HEALTHY LIBIDO (AND ENDOCRINE SYSTEM) ANTI-AGING, REJUVENATING, REVITALIZING KEEPS CELL MEMBRANES FLEXIBLE REGULATES CHOLESTEROL PRODUCTION AND PREVENTS OVERPRODUCTION OF CHOLESTEROL IN THE BODY SUPPORTS ANTIOXIDANT SYSTEMS AND MAGNESIUM DOES A LOT MORE FOR HEALTH! Source: Transdermal Magnesium Therapy (2007) MANY BENEFITS OF USING MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE While magnesium chloride used  transdermally is an effective means for safely increasing magnesium  levels the body, it is particularly useful for relieving sore muscles  and joints, and reducing pain related to functional magnesium  deficiency. It is also proven for use in helping to calm ‘nerves’ and  reduce systemic bodily stress. Because the magnesium in magnesium flakes  targets muscle tissues (i.e., it is rapidly absorbed by muscles), it is  thereby especially useful for replenishing depleted soft tissues and  helping restore proper function that may be reduced by less than  adequate magnesium stores. Magnesium is necessary for the production  of energy (ATP or Adenosine Triphosphate) in the body. When the body  receives adequate amounts of magnesium, it can produce the levels of  energy required to sustain the body and enable it to thrive. It is  precisely because energy (as ATP) is required for the health of human  organism that the critical role magnesium plays in energy production is  gaining increased recognition by individuals interested in nutrition and  natural health. All organ systems depend on energy. A mineral nutrient  (i.e., magnesium) that can increase cellular energy thereby has the  capacity to improve the health of the entire human body (i.e., all organ  systems) via providing the energy for sustaining them all. Please note we add $8 per order of the 32lb Magnesium Flakes to help cover the cost of shipping this heavy item. Magnesium, therefore, provides powerful  benefits to many tissues and organs, including the heart (cardiac  muscle), brain, blood vessels, skin, etc. Protocols have been developed  for successfully using magnesium flakes to help prevent and support  conditions as diverse as heart disease, diabetes, cancer, neurological  diseases, and strokes. Beyond major degenerative conditions, magnesium  chloride is proven for use in a variety of general applications,  including bruises, cramps (and muscle tension), and migraine headaches. Magnesium is critical for cell  metabolism. It helps to transport other minerals across cell membranes  and affects cell mechanisms controlling muscle and nerve cell activity.  Research suggests cardiac muscle is more sensitive to magnesium intake  than skeletal muscle. Magnesium specifically is important for  the metabolism of many biologically active nutrients and substances,  including calcium, potassium, phosphorus, zinc, copper, sodium, lead,  cadmium, hydrochloric acid (HCl), acetylcholine, and nitric oxide (NO).  It is required for more than 325 magnesium-dependent enzymes, cellular  homeostasis, and activation of the B vitamin thiamin. It mediates the  functions of the nervous and endocrine systems, supports proper muscle  and nerve function, stabilizes heart rhythm, helps to regulate blood  sugar levels, and supports normal blood pressure. As noted, magnesium is  important in energy metabolism and the synthesis of proteins. The  majority of magnesium within the nucleus of cells is closely connected  with nucleic acids and mononucleotides. In fact, magnesium helps to  maintain the structural integrity of DNA. Magnesium is naturally present in water  and foods in varying amounts. The US Daily Value for magnesium is  approximately 320 mg per day for women and more than 400 mg per day for  men. Yet, studies show that most people regularly take in only about  half this amount, or less. And now, new research reveals that this lack  of magnesium may put your heart — and your health — at significant risk.  Research indicates that most people are lacking in magnesium and that  many health issues are related to magnesium deficiency. One reason for such low magnesium intake  is the mineral depletion of our soils. It may take decades (or  centuries) to replenish magnesium levels in the soil. The decreased  levels of magnesium found in food crops is typically then lowered  further by destructive processing methods used, for example, to “refine”  grains. Consuming organically grown whole foods is part of the  solution, and magnesium supplements also can play a important role. Yet,  adequately replenishing magnesium levels in your body using diet and  oral supplementation alone can take months or years. Magnesium chloride  acts far more quickly when used transdermally (i.e., across the skin)  than most other methods (except perhaps direct injection into the body)  to raise magnesium levels. In this way, magnesium levels in the body can  be restored rapidly by using ultra-pure, ANCIENT MINERALS magnesium flakes in baths, footbaths, lotions, and directly on the skin. MAGNESIUM FOR EFFECTIVE PAIN RELIEF One of the most significant benefits of  using magnesium oil is the relief of pain. Magnesium both works to block  pain reception and also can act on the sources of pain. It thereby can  positively affect the causes of pain, rather than merely relieving the  symptoms of it. Such causes of pain may relate to inflammation,  toxicity, cell wall rigidity, mineral deficiencies or imbalances, etc.  Some specialists in chronic pain estimate, for example, that  approximately 70% of cases in which individuals suffer from muscle pain,  cramps, and/or fatigue that is associated with the symptoms as varied  fibromyalgia, migraines, and constipation, are showing signs of  magnesium deficiency. Indeed, Dr. Mildred Seelig, a pioneering magnesium  researcher at the University of North Carolina, has asserted that  magnesium deficiency causes much needless suffering from pain, including  the pain associated with fibromyalgia, muscle cramps, and migraine  headaches ( Transdermal Magnesium Therapy 279). It is relevant to note that muscle,  joint, and connective tissue pain can be exacerbated by higher intakes  of calcium, and especially when large amounts of additional calcium are  taken for the purpose of strengthening these tissues. An overabundance  of calcium flushes magnesium out of cells, reducing its availability for  reducing pain. In addition, this mineral imbalance can significantly  compromise the effectiveness both of calcium and magnesium (i.e.,  because magnesium is needed for the proper uptake and assimilation of  calcium) (see more below). If there already exists a state of magnesium  depletion in the body (e.g., due to endemically low levels in the diet),  then magnesium levels may drop to exceedingly low levels. In such  extreme states of deficiency, magnesium simply is not available to block  pain effectively, or to fulfill properly its many roles in the body. Perhaps the primary reason that magnesium  is highly effective for relieving pain is that it is a non-competitive  antagonist of the N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptor site. The NDMA  receptor plays a critical role in the bodily mechanisms relating to  central sensitization in the spinal cord. This sensitization is involved  in the establishment of chronic neuropathic pain. It is notable that a  centrally positioned magnesium ion has the ability to block the NMDA  receptor site. Dr. Sircus states that NMDA receptor activation and  release of pro-pain substances including substance P, nerve growth  factor, brain derived nerve factor, and nitric oxide are believed to  “drive the process of central sensitization” in the spinal cord  (Transdermal 281).Transdermally absorbed magnesium increases the  magnesium concentration gradient between cell membranes and  extracellular fluid, and thereby blocks the NMDA receptor. This is one  of the mechanisms that allows magnesium to bring immediate pain relief. The corollary to the fact that a  centrally positioned magnesium ion can block the NMDA receptor site is  that reduced levels of magnesium inhibit the body’s capacity to block  the NMDA receptor site. When the NMDA receptor site is not adequately  blocked, one result can be higher levels of pain in the body. In  addition, when low levels of magnesium result in reduced capacity to  block the NMDA receptor site, central sensitization of the spinal cord  is more likely to occur. Under such circumstances, wherein the NMDA  receptor site is not blocked adequately, it is evident that low  magnesium status not only can contribute to higher levels of acute or  immediate pain, but can also lead to the establishment of chronic  neuropathic pain. Abundant magnesium levels in the body provide for the  relief of pain and for prevention (or mitigation) of chronic neuropathic  pain by preventing central sensitization of the spinal cord. In this  way, magnesium helps lessen and prevent acute and chronic pain.  Transdermal magnesium therapy rapidly increases magnesium concentration  between extracellular fluid and cell membranes, thereby enabling  blockage of the NMDA receptor, and bringing relief from pain. It is equally notable that magnesium not  only can block pain at the receptor site, but it also can function to  partly or completely act against the source of pain. As Dr. Sircus  notes, these sources of pain may relate to inflammation, cell wall  rigidity, lack of energy (ATP), or a lack of enzymes (i.e., magnesium is  needed for enzyme function throughout the body). He finds ANCIENT MINERALS magnesium chloride  therefore to be an ideal solution for natural pain  relief. The dual characteristics of magnesium in reducing symptoms of  pain and acting against sources of pain means that transdermal magnesium  therapy is a unique modality that heals the body while offering relief  from suffering caused by acute or chronic pain. Transdermal magnesium therapy elevates  the concentration gradient of magnesium between cell membranes and the  extracellular fluid to levels necessary both to block pain reception and  to affect positively calcium-magnesium ratios in cells. Dr. Sircus  notes that only transdermal (or intravenous) magnesium administration  can rapidly elevate magnesium levels in the body in quantities large  enough to relieve pain. Given the safety and effectiveness of  transdermal application of magnesium chloride, and the ability of  individuals to administer magnesium transdermally at home, and in a cost  effective way, Dr. Sircus hardly stands alone in his firm belief in the  powers of magnesium chloride for pain relief and healing. MAGNESIUM IMPROVES CALCIUM ASSIMILATION Ever more scientific evidence points to  the importance of magnesium for the uptake and assimilation of calcium.  That is, whereas the proper ratio of calcium to magnesium intake once  was believed to be 4:1 or 2:1, new evidence suggests that this ratio may  be 1:1 or even 1:2 in order to facilitate higher assimilation of  calcium. Yet, researchers estimate that the ratio of calcium to  magnesium intake is fast approaching 6:1, which represents an all-time  high whose cause is our perpetually increasing calcium intakes relative  to declining (or static) magnesium intakes ( Transdermal 52). In  fact, calcium intake continues to rise even while magnesium deficiency  grows more widespread in the US and the world. It is notable that high  calcium intakes contribute to mineral imbalances, complications from the  deposition of excess calcium in body tissues, and to magnesium  deficiencies, especially because magnesium intakes rarely meet or exceed  calcium intakes. Magnesium is not only essential for proper calcium  absorption, but it is also an important mineral in bone matrix ( Transdermal 57). The bottom line is that magnesium is a rate-limiting factor for  the uptake of calcium. A higher intake of magnesium therefore likely  would increase your absorption of calcium, and thereby allow this  calcium to be used, for example, to build stronger bones in your body.  Magnesium chloride applied transdermally is more rapidly and effectively  assimilated than oral forms of magnesium. The application of magnesium  chloride transdermally, therefore, is an ideal method for improving the  health of connective tissues and the skeletal system through greater  assimilation of nutrients (e.g., calcium) needed for the maintenance of  their structural integrity. ANCIENT MINERALS magnesium  flakes thereby can help to build, support, and maintain stronger,  healthier bones and to increase bone density—at any age! One of the reasons for the powerful  effect of magnesium on calcium is that magnesium balances calcium in the  body. So not only will proper levels of magnesium assist the body in  assimilating calcium, but magnesium is needed to balance the effects of  calcium throughout the body. In relation to the commonly observed  phenonmenon of osteoporosis in modern, western society, Dr. Mark Sircus  notes that it is magnesium, not calcium, that is the key to preventing  and reversing this problem of epidemic proportions among women, and  especially older women. For without adequate magnesium levels, the body  cannot properly process or absorb calcium, and therefore calcium may be  sequestered in the body as calcifications or calcium deposits (i.e.,  rather than helping bones to become stronger or more dense). These  calcifications potentially can be dangerous, and represent an  inadvertent consequence of an overabundance of calcium in the diet  (through milk or other dairy products, calcium supplements, etc.)  relative to the intake of magnesium. Moreover, calcium deposits in the  body result not only from overabundance of calcium intake relative to  magnesium intake, but also from magnesium deficiencies caused by chronic  overconsumption of calcium. Chronic magnesium deficiency accelerates  deposition of unabsorbed calcium in the body. When magnesium no longer  is available to fulfill its role in providing energy for ATPase (the  enzyme that uses energy (as ATP) to pump excess calcium from cells),  then calcium accumulates in cells, tissues, and organs. As cells undergo  calcification, the capacity of ATPase to remove calcium is overwhelmed  by an overabundance of calcium ions. ATPase function then declines and  magnesium is blocked from transport into cells. Cell membranes calcify  and become rigid, blocking both transport of magnesium (and other  nutrients) into cells and preventing removal of toxins (e.g., heavy  metals) out from cells. The body normally maintains a concentration of  magnesium within cells that is approximately 10,000 times greater than  calcium (Seelig 15). After an overabundance of calcium ions enters  cells, magnesium ion concentration can precipitously decline. This  describes the process of calcification of cells caused by overabundance  of calcium relative to magnesium. The process may be characterized as a  positive feedback loop whereby increasing levels of calcium lead to  reduced cellular energy production, ineffective cell transport systems,  and reduced levels of magnesium, which is then replaced by additional  calcium. As the presence of calcium increases to levels beyond the  capacities for cells to remove it, deposits form that can appear  anywhere in the body. This process of calcification has negative impacts  upon health, including significant adverse effects on detoxification  systems, antioxidant systems, cellular energy production, glucose  metabolism, nervous system excitation, and acceleration of the aging  process. Abnormal deposits of calcium have  significant negative consequences for health. This is because calcium  that is not absorbed can freely lodge anywhere in the body and provoke a  range of health conditions ( Transdermal 54). When unabsorbed  calcium lodges in the heart, for example, it can lead to arterial  lesions. When it lodges in bones or joints it may lead to arthritic  conditions. Depending upon where in the body excess calcium is  deposited, other adverse effects can include high blood calcium levels  (hypercalcemia) (itself a known cause of magnesium deficiency), kidney  stones, kidney complications, hypertension, stroke, gastrointestinal  disorders, chronic fatigue syndrome, depression, mood disorders, mineral  imbalances (e.g., imbalances with zinc, iron, phosphorus, and other  minerals), and many other health-related conditions ( Transdermal 60). In addition, elevated calcium levels interfere with the activity  of Vitamin D and thereby can inhibit its protective effects in cancer ( Transdermal 60). It is well known that the tendency of the  mineral calcium in the body is to rigidify or to make muscles and  cellular structures more rigid, whereas the tendency of the mineral  magnesium is to relax muscles or cause cellular structures to become  more flexible. Too much calcium rigidifies the body, and without the  moderating and balancing effects of magnesium, may lead to a loss of  proper cell function, or certainly to a less than optimal balance of  calcium to magnesium (and subsequently to diminished cellular  viability). In addition, a high-blood level of calcium (hypercalcemia)  is closely associated with various disease states, and its primary  origin most likely is a deficiency in magnesium ( Transdermal 56). It is also generally known that mineral  imbalances can have significant consequences for health and well-being.  While calcium is a mineral very important for health, the public (and  doctors, nutritionists, and health care professionals) have not  adequately been made aware of the roles magnesium plays, and especially  its complex interrelationships with calcium. This lack of awareness is  tantamount to a disservice to public health when it leads to ever more  calls for increased calcium intake (without comparable recommendations  for increasing intake of magnesium) because the evidence shows that  increasing calcium by itself is not the solution to osteoporosis. If increased calcium intake by itself  were the solution to osteoporosis, then it would not continue to remain  such a widespread problem, particularly for women. Magnesium, including  magnesium chloride in the form of magnesium flakes, can play a  significant role in helping health-conscious individuals to improve  their bone density and to prevent or mitigate the processes leading to  osteoporosis and less than optimal skeletal health. According to one study, higher magnesium  intakes through diet and supplementation were positively associated with  higher total body bone mineral density (BMD) both in men and women. It  was shown that every 100 mg per day increase in magnesium results in  approximately a 2% increase in whole body bone mineral density ( Transdermal 57). These results are not surprising given the fact that magnesium in known to strengthen bones and teeth. As much as half of the body’s stores of  magnesium are found in bones. Dr. Alan Gaby has noted the association  between a lack of magnesium with abnormal calcium crystals in bones (and  adequate magnesium levels with normal calcium crystals in bones). He  also finds that low magnesium levels can cause abnormalities of calcium  metabolism resulting in the formation of calcium deposits in the body  (e.g., within soft tissues) where calcium is not supposed to accumulate. Higher magnesium intakes therefore are  warranted for nearly all adults, and especially for women, who by age  seventy may only absorb two-thirds of the amount of dietary magnesium as  they did earlier in adulthood. At least one study shows that the  majority of women over age forty are low in magnesium. Human bones and teeth contain about 1%  phosphate of magnesium. Elephant tusks contain 2% phosphate of  magnesium, and the teeth of carnivores (that require exceptional  hardness for crushing the bones of their prey) average nearly 5%  phosphate of magnesium ( Transdermal 57). It may therefore be  seen that the hardness not only of bones but also of teeth depends  critically upon an adequate supply of magnesium, and upon an appropriate  balance between magnesium and calcium. Magnesium also is needed for the  activation of alkaline phosphatase, which is an enzyme involved in the  formation of calcium crystals within bone, as well as for converting  Vitamin D into its biologically active form (Transdermal 60). It  therefore may be seen that the mechanisms by which magnesium strengthens  bones and teeth, connective tissues, and joints, as well as improves  the health of skin, are complex and relate both to its unique  relationship to calcium, and also to its relationships with many other  minerals, including potassium, selenium, and zinc. Not only does magnesium play an important  role for proper calcium assimilation, it also prevents abnormal  calcification of tissues. Calcification of tissues (including calcium  deposits in soft tissues) has become a persistent problem partly because  of increased calcium consumption in Western society. While increased  calcium consumption (whether via dairy products or nutritional  supplements) is primarily a result of efforts to increase bone density  and prevent osteopenia and osteoporosis, the cumulative effect of  greater calcium intake without correspondingly higher magnesium intake  is weaker bones and abnormal calcification of tissues. This unintended  consequence therefore relates directly to a mineral balance that overly  favors calcium relative to magnesium. The mechanisms behind the failure of  increased intake of calcium to strengthen bones relates not only to the  ability of magnesium to increase calcium uptake into bone tissue, but  also to the role of magnesium in providing energy (ATP) to cells.  Magnesium is required to provide ATP to pump excess calcium from cells.  When ATP levels drop and remain too low, then a lack of energy can  contribute to a lower rate of calcium removal from cells. In this  scenario, a positive feedback loop becomes established whereby  increasingly high calcium levels reduce the uptake of magnesium. As  magnesium levels gradually decrease, ATP levels can fall in lockstep,  ultimately reducing the capacity of the cell to pump away excess calcium  (Transdermal 96-97). When pumping capacities of cells become  compromised due to lack of energy, the body loses its ability to remove  excess calcium, whereupon calcium accumulates within cells causing  rigidification of cellular membranes. Cells no longer can function  properly, and when this scenario is repeated over time within hundreds  of thousands or millions of cells, deposits of calcium can inevitably  form clusters within soft tissues throughout the body. Such deposits can  constitute a significant health risk and contribute to suffering, for  example, when they prevent proper movement of joints or cause fusions in  skeletal components, like vertebrae. Another significant ramification of the  loss of pumping capacity within cells during magnesium deficiency (or  relative overabundance of calcium) is that heavy metals (e.g., lead,  mercury, arsenic) are less effectively removed from cells. These toxic  metals then bio-accumulate within cells. In this way, magnesium supports  detoxification of toxic heavy metals via its role in the production of  cellular energy. When calcium levels reach the threshold where they  inhibit uptake of magnesium, for example, the result is reduced  production of ATP and lessened pumping capacity within cells.  Thererafter, the body cannot reverse the process of calcification (and  rigidification) of cell membranes and reduced capacity to detoxify heavy  metals, at least until adequate magnesium levels are restored. MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE FOR HEALTHIER HEARTS Beyond the roles played by magnesium in  helping to prevent osteoporosis and to increase bone density, Dr. Mark  Sircus notes that cultures in which the ratio of calcium to magnesium  intake is low (e.g., Japan) enjoy superior cardiovascular health and   relatively low rates of cardiac death. Conversely, cultures consuming  the highest ratios of calcium to magnesium (e.g., Australia, USA, and  Scandinavian countries) exhibit among the highest rates of  cardiovascular diseases in the world. It is clear to Dr. Sircus and  others that cultures (and individuals) maintaining high magnesium  intakes generally do not suffer from heart-related diseases to anywhere  near the same degree in comparison to cultures (and individuals) not  maintaining high intakes (i.e., those consuming relatively lower intakes  of magnesium). He notes that the Japanese, for example, derive most of  their magnesium from consuming sea vegetables and single-cell algae  (e.g., chlorella and spirulina), and a wide variety ocean-related food  sources. The daily intake of magnesium in Japan may be as high as 560  milligrams. It is also worth noting that the Japanese have among the  lowest intakes of calcium from dairy products and exhibit one of the  lowest mortality rates in the world. Magnesium is required for healthy  heart function. The rapid assimilation afforded by  trandermal use of magnesium chloride provides immediate cardiovascular  benefits and when used regularly can offer sustained high-levels of  magnesium available to your heart and circulatory system! Moreover, it is notable that the Japanese  consume magnesium chloride in the form of nigari, a white powder that  is created from seawater after the sodium chloride has been removed, and  the seawater is evaporated. The Chinese consume a similar culinary item  known as lushui. Nigari and lushui consist primarly of magnesium  chloride and include some trace minerals. Nigari and lushui are added to  drinking water, miso soups, steamed vegetables, etc. These  ocean-derived mineral condiments are also used as coagulants in the  production of tofu. It may be seen that traditional cultures whose diets  include an abundance of magnesium chloride do not appear to suffer from  the high incidences of diseases of the heart that are witnessed in  cultures or among peoples where modern western diets are predominant, or  in places where the consumption of overprocessed, nutritionally  depleted (and magnesium-depleted) food sources has become prevalent,  that is, throughout much of the civilized world. Providing  sufficient magnesium to the body is one of the best ways to achieve and  maintain optimal cardiovascular health. Using magnesium chloride  transdermally (i.e., across the skin) is the most convenient and  effective way to boost magnesium levels, thereby making it available for  improving the health of your heart! It is also notable that in North America,  for example, tofu commonly is coagulated with calcium chloride (not  magnesium chloride). Manufacturers typically tout the nutritional  benefits of the calcium contained in tofu. The historical and  overarching emphasis (by many industries and organizations) on a single  mineral (i.e., calcium) not only reflects a long-term failure to  consider the wider, yet well-known interrelationships among minerals,  but consequently also contributes to perpetuating the types of  conditions (e.g., osteoporosis) it claims to address or mitigate. In  this regard, consuming magnesium chloride would be desirable, whether in  the form of a powder (such as nigari) or in the form of pure magnesium  flakes or magnesium oil ,  as a means to balance calcium intake with adequate magnesium.  Transdermal application of magnesium chloride (e.g., using magnesium  flakes), however, may present the simplest and most highly effective  means for most people to quickly and easily obtain optimal amounts of  magnesium they require for abundant health. Magnesium is our  heart’s best friend. Providing it with an easily assimilated form of  magnesium (the mineral most needed for sustaining cardiovascular health)  best promotes a heart-healthy lifestyle! Specific beneficial effects of magnesium  chloride on cardiovascular health are well known to researchers and to  health care professionals. Beneficial effects include preventing or  reducing spasms within blood vessels in the heart, reducing calcium  deposits in arteries (a known risk factor for artery blockages and  thromboses), fighting inflammation in blood vessels (as measured by  reduced levels of C-reactive protein), reducing homocysteine levels, and  regulating the synthesis of cholesterol (by inhibiting the enzyme  required for cholesterol synthesis). In particular, magnesium can raise  HDL cholesterol and lower LDL cholesterol (Seelig 126). Transdermal magnesium therapy can boost your “good” cholesterol and  lower your “bad” cholesterol! Magnesium chloride works effectively by  multiple modes of action to preserve and protect your cardiovascular  health! MAGNESIUM REGULATES CHOLESTEROL LEVELS Magnesium regulates blood cholesterol by  playing a pivotal role in the function of the enzyme responsible for its  synthesis in the body. This enzyme is known as HMG-CoA reductase  (3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase). Magnesium deactivates this  enzyme, which is the rate-limiting enzyme controlling the conversion of  HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA) into the compound mevalonate  (a fatty acid derivative). When this first step in the mevalonate  pathway is inhibited by the deactivation of HMG-CoA reductase by  magnesium and ATP (magnesium-ATP complex), then cholesterol production  correspondingly is reduced (Seelig 127). The final result is  less formation of cholesterol. Magnesium regulates cholesterol  synthesis by deactivating the enzyme necessary for producing it! When magnesium levels remain sufficiently  high, then the body can inhibit the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase whenever  necessary. However, when there is magnesium deficiency, cholesterol  synthesis increases because the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate is  enhanced (i.e., lacking inhibition of the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase by  magnesium). Without the presence of sufficient magnesium, the body  cannot prevent the synthesis of cholesterol from proceeding beyond  amounts normally required for synthesizing important steroid hormones  (estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, glucocorticoids, etc.) and  Vitamin D. In these circumstances, cholesterol synthesis proceeds  uninhibited by enzyme deactivation (i.e., at a greater rate than would  be possible if adequate levels of magnesium were available to deactivate  the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase and thereby block conversion of mevalonate  into cholesterol). When magnesium levels are too low, your body loses  the ability to inhibit cholesterol production, which boosts your  synthesis of cholesterol. Maintaining optimum levels of  magnesium has the opposite effect...your cholesterol production is  regulated, controlled, and selectively inhibited, as needed! It may be noted that having adequate  magnesium levels (i.e., magnesium sufficiency) does not prevent the  synthesis of cholesterol needed for health (e.g., inactivated HMG-CoA  reductase can be reactivated by other enzymes, some of which require  magnesium for proper function). Yet, by selectively inhibiting the  enzyme HMG-CoA reductase, magnesium-ATP complex can prevent the  overproduction of cholesterol, a known risk factor in cardiovascular  health conditions. Moreover, through its role in reducing homocysteine  levels, magnesium helps prevent the oxidation of cholesterol. Oxidized  cholesterol is a major problem for cardiovascular health. Given that  magnesium both regulates synthesis of cholesterol itself and reduces  levels of the amino acid homocysteine (thereby lowering the oxidation of  cholesterol), magnesium may be regarded as an essential nutrient for  optimal health of the cardiovascular system. Magnesium  inhibits oxidation and overproduction of cholesterol--naturally! It  works around-the-clock to support your heart’s health. In fact, this  “must have” heart-healthy mineral helps ensure the best health for your  entire cardiovascular system ! MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE AND STROKE According to Dr. Carolyn Dean, author of The Magnesium Miracle (2007), “Magnesium is important in lowering blood pressure, keeping the  heart muscle from going into spasm, and lowering cholesterol, but it  can help heal the damage in the brain caused by a stroke.” Dr. Sircus  states that magnesium may reduce ischemic injury by increasing regional  blood flow, antagonizing voltage-sensitive calcium channels, and  blocking the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NDMA) receptor. As a non-competitive  NMDA receptor blocker, magnesium inhibits the release of excitatory  neurotransmitters at the presynaptic level and blocks voltage-gated  calcium channels. Magnesium simultaneously exerts vascular effects,  including increased vasodilation and cardiac output, and prevents  cerebral vasospasm ( Transdermal 168). Dr. Sircus points out that transdermally  applied magnesium chloride offers advantages over other neuroprotective  agents (such as intravenously administered magnesium sulfate) for  preventing strokes. These advantages include lower cost, ease of use,  and lack of side effects. He not only asserts that a gallon and a half  of low cost magnesium chloride “would do more to prevent strokes safely  without side effects, than any other single medicine,” but also that  when “used transdermally after a stroke will reduce disability; and when  combined with acupuncture and other nutritional and herbal  interventions will prove to be the treatment of choice” ( Transdermal 169). MAGNESIUM PROVIDES ANTI-AGING EFFECTS INCREASES DHEA LEVELS NATURALLY The synthesis of cholesterol depends on  magnesium, as noted. Despite health conditions related to its  overproduction, cholesterol is a vital component of many hormones. For  example, magnesium is needed for the production of aldosterone, which  notably regulates the balance of magnesium and other minerals in the  body (Transdermal 237). It therefore may be seen that cholesterol is the  mother of hormones produced in the adrenal cortex, including cortisone,  hydrocortisone, aldosterone, and DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone). It is known that reduced levels of the  natural steroid DHEA (also known as the “youth and health hormone” and  the “mother of all steroid hormones”) relate directly to magnesium  deficiency. DHEA is considered a multi-functional steroid because it is  involved in an extremely broad range of health-related biological  processes, including supporting optimal metabolism, endocrine function,  immune function, and stress response (Shealy 23). The great importance  of DHEA for human health is indicated by the fact that it is one of the  most abundant steroids in the body and exerts antioxidant activity in  vivo (Shealy 22). DHEA helps aging men and women improve muscle  strength, lean body mass, retain youthful vitality, and feel better ( Transdermal 237). DHEA is produced by the adrenal glands,  ovaries (in women), and is synthesized in small quantities de novo in  the brain. DHEA is known to act directly upon androgen receptors. DHEA  also acts upon androgen receptors via its metabolites (i.e.,  androstenediol and androstendione) that the body ultimately converts to  testosterone, estrone, and estradiol. DHEA is therefore a pro-hormone  for natural sex steroids. Among other symptoms of deficiency, low levels  of DHEA-S (dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, the sulfate ester of DHEA)  in men is associated with sexual dysfunction ( Transdermal 237). DHEA-S has been shown to improve sexual desire and overall quality of life (237). While synthetic DHEA is a popular  nutritional supplement, evidence points to the greater safety and  effectiveness of naturally produced (i.e., endogenous) DHEA, including  lower risks from adverse effects (Transdermal 238). Enhanced natural  production of DHEA is associated with physical exercise, adequate sleep  (in accordance with circadian rhythms), stress reduction programs,  meditation, certain types of acupuncture, caloric restriction, and  natural progesterone supplementation (Shealy 28). In addition, magnesium  chloride contributes to increased DHEA production in the body. However,  unlike synthetic DHEA, the natural DHEA produced in the body when  magnesium levels are high will not carry the risk factors associated  with synthetic DHEA. Use of magnesium chloride transdermally  is an indirect means of increasing DHEA levels that provides the  safest, most natural means for boosting and maintaining DHEA levels! Dr. Norman Shealy reports that magnesium  chloride gradually increases natural DHEA levels, especially when  applied transdermally. He suggests that when the body is provided with  adequate levels of magnesium at the cellular level, it naturally begins  to produce higher levels of DHEA and DHEA-S (Transdermal 238-39).  Because the body can convert DHEA to testosterone, many benefits of  increased DHEA production likely are due to the effects of testosterone.  Optimal testosterone levels play an important role in many body  functions, including maintaining muscle mass and bone density,  regulation of blood sugar, uptake of oxygen by cells, immune system  function, red blood cell production, maintaining cardiac muscle,  neurological function, and sexual desire (and performance) ( Transdermal 240). Testosterone, for example, is the hormone most closely associated  with healthy sex drive in men and women. Increased libido in women is  among the reported effects of transdermal magnesium therapy. DHEA protects the entire body against the  aging process. Low levels of DHEA are linked to aging and difficulties  maintaining good health. Deficiencies of DHEA are known to correlate  with maladies as diverse as chronic inflammation, immune dysfunction,  depression, rheumatoid arthritis, type-II diabetic complications, excess  body fat, cognitive decline, heart disease, and osteoporosis  (Transdermal 241). Dr. Sircus asserts that the role magnesium plays in  the transmission of hormones (insulin, thyroid, estrogen, testosterone,  DHEA), neurotransmitters (dopamine, serotonin) and mineral electrolytes  is significant. That is, studies show that magnesium status is the  factor that controls the potential of cell membranes. Therefore, it is  the status of magnesium that controls uptake and release of hormones,  nutrients, and neurotransmitters (242). Because DHEA is one of the  primary biomarkers of aging, the long-term effects of large amounts of  magnesium (administered in a readily usable form such as transdermal  magnesium chloride) is the significant elevation of DHEA levels and the  reversal of many of the symptoms of aging. DHEA provides natural  protection from age-related conditions and from premature aging due to  hormone imbalances. It is notable that DHEA (like magnesium) is depleted  by chronic stress. It is important that high levels of magnesium be  sustained in order to gain the optimum benefits it provides in terms of  DHEA production and balance in the endocrine system. Maintaining high  magnesium status is the best way to ensure healthy levels of DHEA (and  other hormones) naturally! Transdermal magnesium therapy is an  effective, natural modality that can ensure high levels of magnesium are  available for production of hormones, including DHEA. When the body is provided with an  abundant supply of essential nutrients (including magnesium) that it  needs to produce, regulate, and balance its own hormones (and that are  known to support healthy endocrine function), then it is more likely  that irregularities and deficiencies and the health-related problems  that accompany them will decline or disappear. That is, proper nutrition  that supports healthy endocrine function provides a foundation upon  which good hormonal and reproductive health can be established and  maintained. Studies indicate the importance of magnesium for  reproductive health not only in supporting reproductive organs and  systems throughout life (for both genders), but also its importance in  healthy pregnancy (from conception to birth) for mother and child, and  maintaining the health of the reproductive system into middle age and  beyond (236). The body requires sufficient levels of magnesium in order  to achieve optimal health during the entire life cycle. Magnesium  chloride supports the endocrine system (i.e., the hormonal system) in  ways that synthetic hormones cannot. Transdermally applied magnesium  helps the body by allowing it to determine when and how it synthesizes  its own hormones! Plentiful amounts of magnesium help ensure a  smooth-running endocrine system, which is a major contributor to  vibrant, healthy living, greater longevity, and high quality-of-life! Given the fact that natural DHEA  synthesis (i.e., endogenous production) in the body declines with  advancing age (and the association of low DHEA levels with various  health-related conditions, including diminished sex drive and  performance), it appears that providing the body with the nutrients it  requires to ensure optimal DHEA synthesis is a highly useful adjunct for  supporting good health. Magnesium chloride applied transdermally is an  ideal means to provide the body with abundant levels of magnesium  required to ensure optimal DHEA production. In turn, optimal DHEA  production provides for natural synthesis of sex hormones and  wide-ranging benefits throughout the body. MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE A PROVEN ANTISEPTIC Unlike any other form of magnesium,  magnesium chloride is a known infection fighter. As early as 1915, the  French surgeon, professor of clinical surgery, and French Academy of  Sciences member Dr. Pierre Delbet (1861–1957) used magnesium chloride  solution to cleanse wounds in soldiers injured during the First World  War. He had searched for an antiseptic that could disinfect wounds, but  would not damage tissue (and thereby encourage mortification) as did  other antiseptics then available. He reported that magnesium chloride  was superior to traditional antiseptics not only in its effectiveness in  treating wounds, but also because it did not harm body tissues. Dr. Delbet discovered that magnesium  chloride solution increased leucocyte activity and phagocytosis (i.e.,  the destruction of pathogenic microbes) when applied externally (i.e.,  used transdermally). He performed numerous in vitro and in vivo studies  using magnesium chloride solution. These experiments led to his  discovery that magnesium chloride was a potent immune stimulant whether  applied externally (i.e., transdermal application), injected  intravenously, or taken by mouth (i.e., consumed orally). He termed this  immunity boosting effect “cytophilaxis” (a cytophylactic is a substance  that protects cells and encourages their healthy growth). In this  regard, he observed increased phagocytosis (the engulfing of pathogens  by white blood cells) by up to 300 percent. That is, white blood cells  were three times more effective at destroying microbes than before  administration of magnesium chloride. Dr. Delbet’s discovery that magnesium  chloride solution has tonic effects when consumed orally eventually led  him to conclude that magnesium chloride has numerous beneficial effects  on the whole organism. He went on to use magnesium chloride successfully  in the treatment of a wide variety of conditions. These included  colitis, bladder problems, temors and muscle cramps, Parkinson’s  disease, acne, eczema, psoriasis, prostatic hypertrophy, cerebral and  circulatory problems, asthma, hay fever, uticaria, and anaphylaxis. He  also notes that hair and nails become healthier. Dr. Delbet later  investigated the use of magnesium chloride on abnormal tissue growth. He  ultimately wrote several books, including Politique Préventive du Cancer (1944), in which he presents the results of his studies on magnesium  chloride. Dr. Delbet considered magnesium a “miracle mineral.” He is  remembered today for his groundbreaking studies of magnesium chloride  and its health benefits, as well as for his advocacy of using it to  improve health. The pioneering efforts of Dr. Delbet were  followed in the 1940s by fellow French physician Dr. A. Neveu. Dr.  Neveu confirmed the immuno-stimulant effects of magnesium chloride, and  he successfully tested magnesium therapy for wide range of conditions.  These conditions included colds and flu, throat infections of the  tonsils and pharnyx, lung and respiratory conditions, gastrointestinal  inflammation (stomach flu), skin infections, septic wounds, and many  common childhood conditions. More recently, other physicians such as Dr.  Raul Vergini in Italy have confirmed the results reported earlier by  Dr. Delbet and Dr. Neveu. Dr. Vergini reports excellent results using  small quantities of orally administered magnesium chloride solution (2.5  percent magnesium chloride) both for proven applications developed by  Dr. Delbert and Dr. Neveu, and for a broad range of other health  conditions. MORE BENEFITS OF MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE Additional benefits of magnesium chloride  flakes include greater energy, more relaxed muscles (and stronger  connective tissues), better sleep, improved mental function, headaches  reduced (or eliminated), arterial health, better reproductive function,  and better hormonal balance for men and women (and reduced PMS). In  addition, magnesium maintains the flexibility of cell membranes for  improved intercellular communication, greater uptake of bioactive  substances (e.g., micronutrients, neurotransmitters, and hormones), and  detoxification of toxins and metabolic waste products. Magnesium  chloride also acts as an effective full body tonic. Dr. Sircus asserts  that transdermal magnesium therapy is among the very best ways to  improve human health. Given the powerful evidence of the  benefits of magnesium chloride, it is no wonder that transdermal  magnesium therapy is one of the fastest growing modalities for the  maintenance of health. MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE   SUPPORTS POWERFUL HEALTH According to Dr. Mark Sircus, Ac., OMD “Magnesium chloride, when used  correctly, is the best weapon we have to defend the body, not only from  infectious diseases of both viral and bacterial origin, but also from  the deluge of toxic chemicals that invade our body every day. Between  its power to stimulate white blood cells and glutathione, we have a  heavyweight non-toxic medicinal nutrient that we can use without a prescription, because it is actually an essential food that the human body requires to function properly.” - Transdermal Magnesium Therapy 44 TRANSDERMAL MAGNESIUM THERAPY IS SAFE, PRACTICAL, AND COST EFFECTIVE Magnesium (chloride and sulfate forms)  has been used in the US for more than a century by the medical  establishment in a wide variety of applications (e.g., intravenous  magnesium sulfate solutions for heart conditions), in sports medicine,  e.g., epsom salt (magnesium sulfate) soaks, by alternative practitioners  (e.g., transdermal magnesium and various seawater therapies), and by  many individuals interested in greater health. Transdermal magnesium  therapy is experiencing a revival as a natural, practical, simple, and  safe magnesium therapy due to its effectiveness in enabling the body  rapidly and safely to absorb the amount of magnesium it may require,  especially under increasingly common states of magnesium depletion. Transdermal magnesium therapy allows the  body to absorb only as much as it requires. When magnesium levels in  tissues reach a sufficient level, the body simply stops absorbing it  (and thereby avoiding any problem of over-absorption). In the regard,  the body knows best how much to absorb, largely because your cells know  the amount they require. Magnesium flakes offer an easy-to-use and  readily assimilated form of ultra-pure magnesium. These convenient  flakes may be just what you need to restore your magnesium levels. Doctors, chiropractors, acupuncturists, massage therapists, body workers, natural healers, athletes, and weekend warriors love ANCIENT MINERALS magnesium chloride because almost everyone gains benefits from using  it. There is simply nothing else that so quickly, easily, and safely  raises magnesium levels in the body. COMPOSITION: ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES contain   ultra-high purity magnesium chloride and trace minerals extracted from   deposits in the Ancient Zechstein seabed in northern Europe. The  Zechstein  seabed is a pristine source of magnesium, and has been  protected deep  beneath the earth for 250 million years. One cup of  flakes contains  approximately 51 grams of magnesium chloride, and  numerous trace  elements from ancient seawater. DIRECTIONS : For transdermal magnesium supplementation and relief of aches, pain,   soreness, and stress, we recommend you add 1–2 cups (4–8 ounces) (or   more) of flakes in the bathtub or footbath, and then soak for a minimum  of 20  minutes. We recommend soaking in your magnesium  bath on a regular basis for  best supplementation. While 1–2 cups is a  desirable starting level,  higher doses (up to 32 cups or 8 pounds) may  be used in a bath to  obtain medically therapeutic results. For therapeutic application in cases  where there is severe depletion  of body stores of magnesium, it is  recommended that an individual take  two baths per week for four weeks  using eight pounds of ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES . In order to facilitate high levels of  usage, we offer the flakes  in a 6.5 lb (128 oz) recyclable plastic  container, which is  approximately 16 cups of flakes. We also offer a  32-pound package,  which consists of four 8-pound tear packs of flakes.  This large size  is ideal for families, sports teams, and individuals  interested in high  levels of usage. The larger size also is favored by  health care  professionals, who can re-package the flakes into smaller  containers,  or directly use  eight-pound tear packs for patients and  clients, as desired. NOTE: The temperature of the magnesium bath should  be warm (101 degrees F to  105 degrees F) rather than hot. Hot bath water encourages  excretion  rather than absorption. When you add the flakes to warm  (i.e., not hot)  bath water, your skin will absorb the magnesium more  efficiently. Some  people prefer to start a bath with hot (or very warm) water and remain  in the bath as the temperature drops into the warm range in order to  gain  maximum benefits. As noted, longer bath times can increase the  amount of magnesium absorbed. Magnesium flakes  are  hygroscopic  (moisture-absorbing). For best results, keep the flakes well sealed,   preferably in a cool, dry place. INGREDIENTS: ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES contain   ultra-high–purity magnesium chloride and trace minerals extracted from   deposits in the Ancient Zechstein seabed in northern Europe. The  Zechstein  seabed is a pristine source of magnesium, and has been  protected deep  beneath the earth for 250 million years. One cup of  flakes contains  approximately 51 grams of magnesium chloride, and  numerous trace  elements from ancient seawater. MAGNESIUM FLAKES ARE MORE EFFECTIVE WITH FOUNDATIONAL SUPPLEMENTS ANCIENT MINERALS MAGNESIUM FLAKES will be most effective when used as part of a complete nutritional supplement program that includes foundational supplements , including high-RNA Rejuvenate!™ superfoods ,  and specific-condition formulas that meet your individual needs.  Foundational nutritional supplements include a multivitamin (such as Multi Two ), a Vitamin C formula (such as PRO-C™ ), and a balanced essential fats formula (such as Omega Plus ).  Founational formulas establish a solid baseline of nutrients needed for  assimilating and using magnesium chloride to its fullest extent. Having  a full complement of foundational nutrients enables the body to  maximize its use of all nutrients, including magnesium. Dr. Mark Sircus highly recommends Nascent Iodine ,  which works together with magnesium chloride (flakes, oil, or gel) in  creating health, supporting detoxification, boosting energy levels, and  providing essential nutrients that redress deficiencies pervasive in  modern diets. Nascent Iodine can increase energy, block uptake of toxic halides (chlorine, fluoride,  bromine) (and hasten detoxification of these poisons from the body),  support thyroid function, improve immune function, and offer greater  protection against numerous conditions relating to iodine deficiency. Nascent Iodine works well with magnesium chloride flakes because they both are  involved in energy (ATP) production, are potent detoxifiers, and are  required for good health (yet most Americans are deficient in both  nutrients). Nascent Iodine therefore acts synergistically with magnesium chloride, powerfully  supporting the natural processes leading to optimal health and  well-being. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION For more information, please see Dr. Mark Sircus’s Transdermal Magnesium Therapy: A New Modality for the Maintenance of Health (Phaelos Books 2007). This authoritative work is a valuable source of  information about magnesium and transdermal magnesium therapy, and also  is an excellent, informative guide for using magnesium chloride (flakes,  oil, or gel). It is one of few books currently available providing a  comprehensive, scientific, and naturally oriented discussion of the use  of magnesium for human health, accessible both to health care  professionals and individuals interested in improving their health and  well-being. Also visit Dr. Sircus’s website: http://www.MagnesiumForLife.com for information, product analyses, and recommendations for applying transdermal magnesium therapy. Additional resources include Dr. Carolyn Dean’s The Magnesium Miracle (2007), Dr. Mildred Seelig’s and Dr. Andrea Rosanoff’s The Magnesium Factor (2003), and Dr. C. Norman Shealy’s DHEA: The Youth and Health Hormone (1999 ed.). These works provide useful information regarding therapeutic benefits of magnesium. Order Online or Call 1-800-228-4265. We are pleased to take orders and answer questions by phone! Feedback from a Very Satisfied Customer April 12, 2010 The magnesium oil/flakes are an incredible product. For me, I  am a very active, athletic 44 year old man that takes pleasure in being  in better physical and cardiovascular shape than people much younger  than me. I lift weights, do cross fit, yoga, run, play basketball, you  name it. People are amazed at the activity level I can maintain. I came  across magnesium oil/flakes about a year ago and fell in love with it.  The product works! And I have personally turned 5 people onto using it  (and they too love it). It is a rare product that works; is healthy for  you AND does really relieve stress and sore muscles. Thank you again! — Bob Long, Bellevue, WA • ANCIENT MINERALS Magnesium Flakes...For Your Best Health! • © Copyright 2008-2010 Health Products Distributors, Inc. (HPDI) These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. My Cart You have no items in your shopping cart. Compare Products You have no items to compare. Affiliate Become an HPDI Affiliate! Start now © 