
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 17:05:06 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Home | Search | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Contact Us Additional pediatric resources: SearchingPediatrics.com | Pediatric Commons | PediatricEducation.org | GeneralPediatrics.com Virtual Pediatric Hospital: Paediapaedia: Approach to
   Chest
   Tumors Paediapaedia: Chest Clinical and Radiographic Presentations,
DDX, Approach to Imaging Approach to Chest Infections Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Peer Review Status: Internally Peer Reviewed Pediatric Radiology Resources on the Internet PediatricRadiology.com , RadiologyEducation.com , SearchingRadiology.com , and AnatomyAtlases Clinical Presentation: Cough, fever, wheeze Anatomy of the Lung Lobar
   Anatomy Left
   Lung Segmental Anatomy Right
   Lung Segmental Anatomy DDX of Pneumonia (Practically Speaking): Bacterial - Staphylococcus, Streptococcus (gets treated
   with antibiotics) Viral - Influenza, Parainfluenza, RSV (gets no
   treatment with antibiotics) Approach/Discussion to Simple Pneumonia: Begin with history and physical examination including careful chest auscultation. PA and lateral chest films are the first step radiographically in looking for
   infection. Bacterial - Airspace disease -> infiltrates
      -> consolidation / air bronchograms Viral - Airway disease -> bronchial cuffing
      -> hyperinflation Mycoplasma - In between bacterial pneumonia and
      viral pneumonia in appearance, it can look like either and is a
      joker Bacterial pneumonia is now treated in most cases as an
   outpatient with oral antibiotics. Remember that the CXR always lags behind the patient's
   clinical appearance during healing. Approach/Discussion to Complicated Pneumonia: Computed tomography needs to be pushed for early in complicated
cases. What is found on computed tomography will often modify therapy
substantially. Complications of Bacterial Pneumonia Abscess Empyema Bronchopleural fistula Pneumatocele Bronchiectasis Treatment of Complicated Bacterial Pneumonia Antibiotics US guided tap / CT guided drainage of fluid Chest tube Pleurodesis Complications of a Viral Pneumonia Bacterial overgrowth BOOP Swyer James Treatment of Complicated Viral Pneumonia ??? Immune Suppressed Patient Aspergillosis Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia Treatment of Immune Suppressed Patient Anti-fungal drugs Surgery Cases TAP Case 24 - a 4 year old female who lives in a house where
   there is too much coughing going on. Presentation
   CXR Chest
   CT 4 days later Followup TAP Case 12 - an 8 year old female status post bone marrow
   transplant for myelodysplastic syndrome 1 month ago. Presentation
   CXR Chest
   CT 3 days later Followup TAP Case 14 - a 7 year old male with fever and nonproductive
   cough CXR
   from Hospital Day 6 Chest
   CT from Hospital Day 15 Followup TAP Case 31 - an 11 year old male being evaluated for a
   surgical procedure. Presentation
   CXR Presentation
   CT Followup TAP Case 22 - 2 and 1/2 year old female with respiratory
   distress. Presentation
   CXR CXR
   Hospital Day 8 Chest
   CT Hospital Day 8 Followup TAP Case 28 - 18 year old male with fever, cough, and bad
   breath. Presentation
   CXR Chest
   CT on Hospital Day 2 Followup TAP Case 5 - 14 year old male with complicated pneumonia. CXR
   at 17 days Chest
   CT at 17 days Followup TAP Case 11 - 8 year old female with respiratory distress. Presentation
   CXR Presentation
   CT Followup TAP Case 26 - 7 year old female who is immune suppressed. Presentation
   CXR Presentation
   CT Followup Summary Radiologist's job is to detect, characterize, and follow the
   infection in simple cases of pneumonia When a pneumonia starts to become complex or in an immune
   suppressed patient the radiologist needs to push for early use of
   computed tomography to further identify the disease process and to
   guide further therapy. References: See References Chapter. Section Top | Title Page Additional pediatric resources: SearchingPediatrics.com | Pediatric Commons | PediatricEducation.org | GeneralPediatrics.com Home | Search | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Contact Us Virtual Pediatric Hospital is curated by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Please send us comments by filling out our Comment Form . All contents copyright © 1992-2012 Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. and the authors. All rights reserved. "Virtual Pediatric Hospital", the Virtual Pediatric Hospital logo, and "A digital library of pediatric information" are all Trademarks of Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Virtual Pediatric Hospital is funded in whole by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Advertising is not accepted. Your personal information remains confidential and is not sold, leased, or given to any third party be they reliable or not. The information contained in Virtual Pediatric Hospital is not a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician. There may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances. URL: http://www.virtualpediatrichospital.org/ This site complies with the HONcod