Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alcoholism Drugs Detox Family Issues Alcohol Abuse Treatment Alcohol Dependence Issues About This Site Drug Addiction Information More Alcohol Abuse Information Subscribe To This Site Alcoholism Drugs Detox Alcoholism Drugs Detox Alcohol Detoxification The first step in treating Alcoholism Drugs is to remove alcohol from the system, and this is much more involved than merely “sleeping it off.”  Dextox is necessary because a person cannot participate in the treatment Programs and gain full benefit from the educational opportunity if he/she is in any way under the influence.  Recovery starts when the alcohol is out of the system, Alcoholism Drugs Detox is generally the first step.. So what does that entail? This can be a tricky process and people should not try to detox without medical assistance. Alcohol withdrawal is potentially very dangerous. The body can react violently towards the removal of alcohol, as it craves more.  Detox is designed to remove the symptoms of withdrawal and help the patient through the procedure.  While Alcoholism Drugs detox is a relatively short-term process, it has long-term value for helping Alcoholism Drugss in recovery. The withdrawal symptoms usual begin between six and 48 hours after heavy drinking.  The symptoms will both lessen and increase between 24 and 48 hours. Part of the medical aspect of detox is the patient receiving a physical examination.  This is a good idea because there may be some preexisting medical condition that could be exacerbated during detox.  Conditions such as an irregular heartbeat, inadequate heart function, liver disease, Alcoholism Drugs pancreatitis and digestive bleeding, can all be problematic in detox. It’s important for the patient to receive adequate medical care prior to the detox taking place. Where is Alcoholism Drugs detox done? Detox can be done in an inpatient or outpatient, but should always be under medical supervision. In their article “Treatment of Alcohol Withdrawal”, Hugh Myrick MD and Raymond F. Anton MD, state that before 1980, most alcohol detox was done in a clinical setting, but since then, most treatments are done outpatient. They went on to say that at present, fewer than 20 percent require admission into inpatient status.   However, when needed, inpatient is the safest approach to Alcoholism Drugs detox. The important factor is the medical oversight of the detox. This is necessary because detox can be very difficult, if not traumatic.  Some people might only experience mild side effects of alcohol withdrawal, such as the “shakes.”  They may also have a loss of appetite, headaches, sweating and insomnia.  They may feel sick to their stomach and feel generally uneasy.  But it could be worse and often is. You’re probably heard of people seeing pink elephants, which is a description of Delirium Tremors, the “DT’s.” About 5% of patients experience these, and they occur usually between two to four days after the patient has stopped drinking. People can have convulsions, or experience autonomic hyperactivity, common to patients with epilepsy.  Their eyes roll back and they shake.  The withdrawal might also produce a seizure.  The risk of seizures is high, as approximately 25% people will experience one during detox if not medically treated. You can see it’s serious business. May only take a couple of days Detox may only take a couple of days, but it can take up to two weeks for some patients. Some possible drugs that are used by doctors during detox include selected benzodiazepines, buprenophex and anticonvulsant  medications.  In outpatient settings, where people have mild symptoms of withdrawal, carbamazepine is an alternative drug to benzodiazepine. Treatment for alcohol withdrawal isn’t without its controversy.  For mild to moderate symptoms, should any medications be administered?  Most agree that when severe withdrawal is the case, medication is absolutely necessary. The debate over medications in the mild to moderate cases continues.  In the severe cases, the benzodiazepines (BZs) that are used to treat anxiety, insomnia and seizures, are used. Research is being done on non-BZ treatments. It’s important to consider the whole person in Alcoholism Drugs detox. That is why it’s important for medical intervention before and during detox. It’s the first and certainly one of the most critical steps taken towards recovery. Read how long it takes to get alcohol out of your system. Also read about a friend who never wanted to detox and paid the ultimate for for his decision. A bitter-sweet story of a man who refused to detox from alcohol. For the next step in treatment after Alcoholism Drugs Detox go to Treatment HOW TO USE THIS SITE: This site contains five MAIN pages that EVERYONE should read: ABOUT… SYMPTOMS… CAUSES… TREATMENT… RECOVERY… Read these five pages and learn what you need to know to spot Alcoholism Drugs in: Yourself... Your Family... Your Friends... Your Community... The rest of the pages are there for your reference to explain important topics in more detail. Finally does not miss the Spiritual and 12-step sections to fully explore how understanding THE SPIRIT can lead to recovery! Click Here To Speak to a Counselor Right Now! Copyright 2012 by Mission Enabled All Rights Reserved Alcoholism-Support.org Site Search Get Help Now!!! Hel