Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urologie - Drink juice, eat yogurt to avoid bladder infection Urologie Drink juice, eat yogurt to avoid bladder infection Women
                      who are plagued by frequent episodes of painful urinary tract
                      infections may get relief from simple changes in their diet,
                according to new research. NEW
                YORK (Reuters Health), 2003-03-07 Investigators
                    based in Finland discovered that women who regularly drink
                    fresh juices and eat yogurt and cheese may be less likely
                    than others to develop urinary tract infections (UTI). The authors found that women who drank at least one daily glass of fresh juice
-- either freshly squeezed or from concentrate, with no additional sweeteners
-- were 34% less likely to have experienced a recent UTI. Women appeared especially protected from UTIs if they drank juices made from
berries, the report notes. Women who reported eating milk products that contain helpful microbes known as
probiotic bacteria -- such as yogurt and cheese -- at least three times each
week were almost 80% less likely to have recently developed a UTI than women
who ate similar foods less than once per week. These findings may help explain why some women often develop UTIs, while others
do not, the authors note. "Dietary habits seem to be an important risk factor for UTI recurrence
in fertile women, and dietary guidance could be a first step toward prevention," Tero
Kontiokari of the University of Oulu in Finland and colleagues write. Kontiokari and colleagues base their findings on surveys of the eating habits
of 139 women who had developed a UTI within two weeks prior, and 185 women who
had not experienced UTIs within the past five years. Study participants' average
age was 30. Reporting in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, the authors found that
women who had not suffered a recent UTI reported higher consumption of fresh
fruit juices and milk products containing probiotic bacteria. In terms of why certain food and drink may ward off UTIs, Kontiokari and colleagues
note that UTIs can be caused by bacteria that migrate from the stool. Foods that
modify the stool's bacterial content may therefore influence the risk of UTIs,
they write. Popular in Europe and increasingly in the US, probiotics are foods that contain
living cultures of "good" bacteria. People have ascribed many benefits
to eating or drinking these foods, including the ability to prevent urinary tract
infections. Previous research has also shown that drinking cranberry juice helps ward off
repeat episodes of UTIs, the researchers note. Plants contain certain antioxidants that may help protect them against bacterial
infections; these substances may also shield people who eat certain fruits and
vegetables from infection as well, Kontiokari and colleagues write. SOURCE: American Journal of