
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 16:25:30 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.hypnoresearch.org/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Smoking | Hypnosis Research Hypnosis Research HypnoResearch.org: Spreading the Word on the Effectiveness of Hypnosis & Hypnotherapy Home Index Filed under: Smoking Hypnosis Compared to Standard Counseling for Smoking Cessation The addiction to smoking is not easy to overcome. Researchers strive to use the study methods that will best facilitate answers as to what the most productive treatment will be. This study was conducted to compare two methods, with each being a combination of two components.  One group used standard counseling plus a two-month supply of nicotine patches. The second group used quit smoking hypnosis and a two-month supply of nicotine patches. Preparations began by compiling a group of 521 smokers who were considered as possible subjects. They all expressed the desire to quit smoking. Of the original group, 154 were found ineligible, reducing the group to 367. These subjects were randomized into one of two groups. The standard counseling and NP group numbered 141 and the hypnosis and NP group contained 145.   Before the study was underway, 81 of the eligible participants declined inclusion. Later, 12 dropped out of the standard counseling group and 4 dropped out of the hypnosis group. A group of 129 remained in the counseling group and 141 remained in the hypnosis group. Those in the standard counseling plus NP group had two separate hour-long sessions of standard counseling for tobacco addiction followed by three separate 20-minute phone calls in which they were counseled further on quitting. These took place 3 weeks after in-person counseling, 4 weeks after and 6 weeks after. The hypnosis and NP group had the same amount of time with the only difference being hypnosis was administered during the original two one-hour sessions. After the two hours of hypnotherapy, each participant was asked to rate the perception of depth during both sessions of hypnosis on a scale of 1 to 40+ with 40+ being the highest. Expectancy of helpfulness was rated by the subjects on a scale of 1 to 3 with three being very helpful and 1 not helpful. Other measures of helpfulness included reminding themselves of why they wanted to quit, use of oral substitutes and rewarding their non-smoking habit. Standardized tests were administered such as the modified version of the Minnesota Nicotine Withdrawal Scale (Hughes & Hatsukami, 1986) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI; Beck, Steer, & Brown, 1996). Measurements of success were done at the time of each 20-minute telephone follow up session. Additional data was collected at 6 months and 12 months after the beginning of the study. Those who claimed to be abstinent were administered a saliva test or a close family member was asked to confirm that they no longer smoked. Following this study to compare hypnosis and standard counseling for effectiveness when used with NP, researchers saw a minimally significant higher success rate in the hypnosis group. At the 6-month phone counseling session, 29% of the hypnosis group reported abstinence compared to 23% of the behavioral counseling group. At 6 months, 26% of those in the hypnosis group reported abstinence compared to 18% of the behavioral counseling group. At the 12-month follow-up phone contact, 24% of the hypnotherapy group reported abstinence compared to 14% of the behavioral counseling group. The final reports (at 12 months) given by all participants were confirmed either by a biochemical (saliva test) process or by confirmation given by a close family member. The general conclusion yielded by this research study is that hypnosis combined with NP is an effective treatment option for overcoming tobacco addiction. The subjects treated with hypnosis and NP exceeded the success rate of those treated with standard counseling and NP. Future research will be a valid endeavor. Studies separating hypnosis from use of NP will provide more predictive results on the use of hypnosis alone as compared to NP alone. There is reason to believe that hypnosis , as a treatment option for cessation of smoking will prove to be beneficial. Replication of these results will be required to confirm these findings. References Beck, A. T., Steer, R. A., & Brown, G. K. (1996). Beck Depression Inventory Manual. San Antonio, TX: Psychological Corporation. Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, Inc. Hughes, J. R., & Hatsukami, D. (1986). Signs and symptoms of tobacco withdrawal. Archives of General Psychiatry, 43, 289–294. February 22, 2011 Quit Smoking Hypnosis – Three Session Results Researchers from Texas A&M University looked at the effect hypnosis had on smoking cessation and whether it assisted smokers with quitting the habit. The study offered thirty smokers three individualized sessions of hypnotic intervention in a clinical setting. All the participants of the study were referred by their doctor. After the three sessions, 81% of the patients reported that they had stopped smoking. 12 months after the study, 48% of patients had remained non smokers . More than 95% of the patients reported being satisfied with the hypnotic intervention and process. The study also found that smokers would be 20% more likely to quit after the 12 month period if they had completed the total 3 sessions and not just two or one. In the first session data was collected from the patients concerning their smoking history, an assessment of their mental status and any psychopathology. The session also covered aspects relating to the addictive nature of nicotine as well as the relationship between stress and tobacco consumption. Each smoker was asked to pick a goal date to quit, to throw out anything in their possession related to smoking, and to return to the consultation location on the specified quit date. Each patient was asked to discuss and talk about the possible after effects of quitting smoking and the likely implications. An overview of the myths and misconceptions regarding hypnosis was also given. These first sessions were approximately 45 minutes in length. This time allowed for the development of both rapport and the groundwork for a positive therapeutic intervention. In the second session patients participated in a 25 minute hypnotic intervention that covered various hypnotic techniques. The induction was standardized across the board but the benefit suggestions were tailored to each individual’s preferences. Some of the aspects of the hypnosis intervention included: (more…) January 23, 2011 HypnoResearch.org Condition Index Recent Posts TMD Hypnosis Research Effects of Self-Hypnosis Training & EMG Biofeedback Relaxation Training on Chronic Pain in Persons with Spinal Cord Injury Hypnosis for Insomnia in Children Treating Chemotherapy related Nausea and Vomiting with Hypnosis Analysis of the Impact of Hypnosis on an Athlete (cricket) Anxiety, Asthma and Self Hypnosis – A Case Study Hypnosis Applied to Pain Management Hypnotherapy for Trichotillomania in Children Hypnosis Compared to Standard Counseling for Smoking Cessation Hypnotherapy as an Adjunctive Treatment for IBS Patients Research Investigating Hypnosis as a Treatment for Exam Anxiety Research Evaluating the Use of Self-Hypnosis to Treat Depression Hypnotherapy for Depression: Meta-Analysis of Previous Research The Use of Hypnotherapy to Treat Obesity Fibromyalgia: Hypnotherapy and CBT treatment The content on this website may not be published, rewritten, reprinted or redistributed in whole or part without the express written permission of the Autho