
Perfect Equilibrium Home Cognitive Behavioural Hypnotherapy Hypnosis Hypnotism Chiswick London and Self Hypnosis Downloads and CD Treatments +44 (0)20 8995 5725 info@perfectequilibrium.co.uk SPORTS MENTAL TOUGHNESS BUY CDs & DOWNLOADS WEIGHT LOSS STOP SMOKING Perfect Equilibrium is a hypnotherapy, sports mental toughness, and Doula practice. Based in Chiswick, West London we offer a personalised, caring and professional service.
    We also offer superb quality digitally recorded, self- hypnosis MP3 downloads and
    CDs which can be shipped anywhere in the world. Please visit our secure online shop
    where you can hear samples of principal therapist, Duncan Gunn’s, soft English accent
    before you choose to buy. In our one- to- one sessions we specialise in Cognitive Behavioural Hypnotherapy, or
    CBH, which combines many of the techniques found within Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
    with the powerful resources of traditional Hypnotherapy. This powerful combination
    has been clinically tested to show that results for many conditions far exceed those
    of other therapies. The results are often dynamic, rapid and long lasting and our clients have commented
    how they feel completely involved in their therapy whilst being carefully and skilfully
    guided by their therapist. Whilst Duncan Gunn is the principal hypnotherapist, dealing with most psychological
    conditions, Perfect Equilibrium co- founder, Emma Gunn, specialises in providing Natal
    Hypnotherapy™ courses for expectant parents. She also offers private Doula services. Stop Smoking Quit smoking in just one session. Hypnosis is the most effective method of quitting
    smoking if you really want to. Irritable Bowel Syndrome Hypnotherapy is clinically proven to be effective in treating the causes and symptoms
    of IBS. We use a 5- step prescribed method with superb results. Weight Reduction If you are ready to lose weight then you will find our hypnotherapy 8- step programme
    just right for you. Effective and lasting hypnotherapy. Sports Mental Toughness We design winning programmes for individuals or teams which cater to your specific
    needs. Our approach can include hypnosis but is just as effective without. Fears and Phobias By losing your fearful thinking and behaviour we will help you transform your life.
    You will shortly look forward to a new way of thinking. A life of confidence and
    fulfilment. The rest of your life begins now... See an NCH video of a typical client discussing their experience with hypnotherapy. Watch Listen Click below to hear the English accent of Principal Hypnotherapist Duncan Gunn Back to Top Back to Top Click HERE to listen to the English accent of Principal Hypnotherapist Duncan Gunn Click HERE to watch a NCH video interview with a hypnotherapy client Click HERE to find out more about our SKYPENOTHERAPY service. The Perfect Equilibrium web site is dedicated to helping more people to reduce stress
    with  Hypnotherapy in Chiswick and around the world. To boost people’s confidence
    with hypnosis and hypnotherapy. To control anxiety with hypnotherapy and self hypnosis.
    To stop, quit and cease smoking with cognitive behavioural hypnosis. To make people
    aware of the Perfect Equilibrium stop smoking hypnosis and hypnotherapy program by
    an experienced hypnotherapist. To forget any phobia or phobias using the power of
    self hypnosis and hypnotherapy. Perfect Equilibrium hypnosis helps with public speaking
    nerves and relationship issues. The Perfect Equilibrium hypnosis client has experience
    of using self hypnosis to help many issues. Perfect Equilibrium helps the corporate
    community to cope with stress. Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy. Perfect Equilibrium offers a unique worldwide one- to- one Hypnotherapy service. Enjoy the freedom of having your clinical hypnotherapist on hand when you want Make an appointment for your 1 hour session Pay our standard fee via our secure online shop Connect to Perfect Equilibrium at the appointment time Sit back and enjoy your hypnotherapy session. Home Shop FAQ Therapie