Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hypnosis for Smoking Cessation: An NLP and Hypnotherapy Practitioner’s 
Manual by David Botsford Welcome to Hypnotherapy Articles, the world's leading web site for 
        information on hypnotherapy - learn what hypnotherapy is and how it can 
        help you SITE SPONSOR: Howden Professionals Main Menu >> Home Page >> About Us >> Submit an Article >> Author Benefits >> Announcements >> Search Site >> Links >> Directories Articles Menu >> General Interest >> Case Histories >> Professional 
                Interest >> Transpersonal 
                Therapy >> Short Articles >> Scripts & inductions >> Book reviews >> Press Releases >> Miscellaneous Articles Inclusion of a 
                resource below is not an endorsement Find a Therapist in 
                the UK > General 
                        Hypnotherapy Register > National 
                        Council for Psychotherapists > The 
                        Hypnotherapy Society > Central 
                Register of Stop Smoking Therapists Find a Therapist in 
                the USA > American Association of Professional Hypnotherapists > National Guild of Hypnotists > American Society of Clinical 
                Hypnosis Find a Therapist in 
                Australia > Australian 
                Hypnotherapists' Association Hypnotherapy, a brief introduction Healing by 
                                        trance state (or an altered state of 
                                        awareness) is among the oldest phenomena 
                                        known to man and is found, in one form 
                                        or another, in virtually every culture 
                                        throughout the world click here to 
                                        continue Hypnotherapy diploma 
                training with the College of Integrated Therapies - learn at home at your 
                own pace with tutor support, comprehensive course covering many 
                    subjects not covered on other diploma courses! Part payments 
                    scheme available, no need to pay for the whole course in 
                    advance - this course represents an excellent investment! Supercharge Your Life Be 
                    confident, more relaxed and in control. Be successful in 
                    love, work and so much more! Powerful Hypnosis Cds The Treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Through Gut 
                    Orientated Metaphor distance learning course leads is a Certificate level 
                    qualification in IBS Treatment by Gut Orientated Metaphor The National Council of 
                    Psychotherapists is one of the longest established societies of its type in 
                    the United Kingdom, being formed in 1971 following the 
                    “Foster Report” on the statutory registration of 
                    psychotherapists. Hypnotherapy 
                book review Hypnosis for Smoking 
					Cessation: An NLP and Hypnotherapy Practitioner’s Manual by 
					David Botsford Crown 
					House Publishing Limited, Copyright 2007 Reviewed 
					by Judith E. Pearson, Ph.D. Whether you 
					are a newly-trained hypnotherapist, or a seasoned 
					practitioner who has conducted smoking cessation programs 
					for years, Hypnosis for Smoking Cessation, by David 
					Botsford, has something for you. This book is the 
					comprehensive manual for practitioners who want to become 
					expert at helping people stop smoking and remain smoke-free. According to 
					the Centers for Disease Control, there are approximately 
					50,000 smokers in the U.S. alone.  For every smoker who 
					quits, another person is lighting up for the first time.  
					Hypnosis has been shown to be more effective than many other 
					smoking cessation methods such as nicotine gum or the 
					nicotine patch.  Smokers represent a lucrative market for 
					practitioners, and smoking cessation can be a worthwhile 
					skill. Botsford 
					gives the nuts and bolts on the clinical side as well as the 
					business side. Following the advice of Milton Erickson, he 
					encourages readers to tailor the hypnosis experience for 
					every client; to utilize the client’s achievements and 
					successes as anchors for resourceful states, and to call on 
					the client’s values, beliefs, and spiritual development as 
					motivating factors for quitting. He shows how 
					to enhance the client’s resolve. He asks the client to see 
					himself as a non-smoker and intensifies the submodalities of 
					the image to make it compelling.  He aligns his suggestions 
					with the client’s model of the world, having each client 
					choose meaningful symbols, metaphors, words and images that 
					can be woven into the hypnotic session.  Botsford provides 
					transcripts of his sessions as examples that tell readers 
					exactly what he says and how he says it. The book 
					discusses several therapeutic strategies for working with 
					smokers, such as reframing the need to smoke, educating the 
					client about the effects of nicotine, utilizing the client’s 
					previous successes in quitting, eliciting the client’s 
					smoking strategy, asking about how the client finds ways to 
					relax or meditate, and clearly establishing the client’s 
					outcome.  Then Botsford demonstrates how all these aspects 
					are covered in hypnosis to convince the client to stop 
					smoking. He devotes 
					an entire chapter to teaching the client self-hypnosis as a 
					means to control urges and to prevent relapse, minimize 
					weight gain, and cope with stress.  He also teaches his 
					clients how to anchor a positive, resourceful state, in 
					relation to the satisfaction of being a non-smoker. For 
					practitioners who work one-on-one in smoking cessation, 
					Chapter 7 is the highlight of the book.  This chapter 
					contains a transcript of a complete hypnotherapy session.  
					The approach combines Ericksonian utilization (via 
					revivification of resourceful memories) and direct 
					suggestions.  It covers various methods of induction, as 
					well as how to bring about a learning set, suggestions for 
					forgetting about the need to smoke, deepening, methods to 
					promote abstinence, ego-strengthening, future pacing, and 
					reorientation—even what to say and do after the hypnosis is 
					done. What I found particularly useful is the information on 
					how to help the client prevent relapse. The author 
					addresses the managerial aspects of a smoking cessation 
					practice: how to set the fee, structure the client-therapist 
					relationship, explain hypnosis to the client, develop a 
					therapeutic communication style, respond to phone inquiries, 
					book appointments, schedule the work day, --even how to 
					dress in a professional manner. The CD that accompanies the 
					book contains pdf files that the reader can print and begin 
					using in his or her practice immediately. As a bonus, 
					hypnotherapists working with groups and in corporate smoking 
					cessation programs will find much value in Botsford’s 
					description of a complete corporate training seminar—how to 
					market, conduct, and evaluate the seminar. Conclusion I like this 
					book for its specificity, and also for the flexibility it 
					gives to the reader in adapting the instructions to one’s 
					own way of doing business and practicing hypnotherapy. The 
					tips, scripts, and checklists are very helpful and 
					instructive.  The approach is practical and marketable. Even 
					as a hypnotherapist and NLP practitioner who has conducted 
					smoking cessation for over twenty years, I still learned 
					many things that are new and worthwhile from this book.  I 
					give it a five star recommendation! Reviewed by: Judith E. Pearson, Ph.D., is a Licensed 
					Professional Counselor, free-lance writer, hypnotherapist, 
					and NLP Trainer/Practitioner with a private practice in 
					Springfield, Virginia.  She is Executive Director for the 
					National Board of Certified Clinical Hypnotherapists. 
					Through Crown House Ltd, she has recently published The 
					Weight, Hypnotherapy, and You Weight Reduction Program: An 
					NLP and Hypnotherapy Practitioner’s Manual .  Her web 
					site is www.engagethepower.com . General Interest >> Case Histories >> Professional 
                Interest >> Transpersonal 
                Therapy >> Short Articles >> Scripts >> Book reviews >> Press Releases >> Miscellaneous Articles Home Page Advertising To 
					advertise here contact us Hypnotherapy diploma 
                training with the College of Integrated Therapies - learn at home at your 
                own pace with tutor support, comprehensive course covering many 
                    subjects not covered on other diploma courses! Part payments 
                    scheme available, no need to pay for the whole course in 
                    advance - this course represents an excellent investment! Supercharge Your Life Be 
                    confident, more relaxed and in control. Be successful in 
                    love, work and so much more! Powerful Hypnosis Cds The Treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Through Gut 
                    Orientated Metaphor distance learning course leads is a Certificate level 
                    qualification in IBS Treatment by Gut Orientated Metaphor The National Council of 
                    Psychotherapists is one of the longest established societies of its type in 
                    the United Kingdom, being formed in 1971 following the 
                    “Foster Report” on the statutory registration of 
                    psychotherapists. Copyright 
        Hypnotherapy Articles Dec 2006 t