<7mm (29/38-76%) or >/=7mm (13/23-57%). No 
patient had evidence of deep vein thrombosis, though nine (10%) had new 
segmental deep venous reflux compared with pre-treatment scans. CONCLUSION: Foam 
sclerotherapy was equally effective for complicated and uncomplicated varicose 
veins. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2008 Feb 27 [Epub ahead of print] Obesity and Impaired Venous Function. van Rij AM, De Alwis CS, Jiang P, Christie RA, Hill GB, Dutton SJ, Thomson IA. Department of Surgery, Dunedin School of Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin, 
New Zealand. OBJECTIVES: The clinical severity of venous disease is often worse in obese 
patients. The objectives of this study were to compare lower limb venous 
physiology assessed by air plethysmography in a large group of obese and 
normal-weight patients; to consider the effect of posture on these measures and 
on foot vein pressure in a smaller cohort. METHODS: Venous function was assessed 
using air plethysmography and duplex scanning in 934 consecutive patients 
presenting for assessment of venous disease. These were grouped into obese or 
non-obese categories. A smaller group of twenty patients with a range of body 
weights were randomly selected from a database of patients with varicose veins. 
Foot vein pressures and femoral vein diameter were measured standing, sitting, 
lying and ambulating. RESULTS: Venous disease was more clinically severe in the 
obese limbs (CEAP C5&6 non-obese group 20.5%, obese group 35.4%, p<0.001 
chi(2)). Venous reflux was worse in the obese but measures of muscle pump 
function were better. Residual volumes and fractions were better in the obese 
(mean residual volume, non-obese 60 SD 36, obese 50 SD 42, p<0.001 t test). In 
the smaller study group weight correlated with the diameter of the superficial 
femoral vein (r=0.50), ambulatory venous pressure (r=0.45), venous filling index 
(r=0.49) and the ejection volume (r=0.38, p<0.05). The foot venous pressure was 
significantly greater in the obese in all positions. CONCLUSION: The CEAP 
clinical stage of venous disease is more advanced in obese patients than 
non-obese patients with comparable anatomical patterns of venous incompetence. 
This may be the result of raised intra-abdominal pressure reported in previous 
studies, leading to greater reflux, increased vein diameter and venous 
pressures. ----- J Vasc Surg. 2007 Dec;46 Suppl S:54S-67S. Primary chronic venous disorders. Meissner MH, Gloviczki P, Bergan J, Kistner RL, Morrison N, Pannier F, Pappas PJ, 
Rabe E, Raju S, Villavicencio JL. Department of Surgery, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle 
98195, USA. meissner@u.washington.edu Primary chronic venous disorders, which according to the CEAP classification are 
those not associated with an identifiable mechanism of venous dysfunction, are 
among the most common in Western populations. Varicose veins without skin 
changes are present in about 20% of the population while active ulcers may be 
present in as many as 0.5%. Primary venous disorders are thought to arise from 
intrinsic structural and biochemical abnormalities of the vein wall. Advanced 
cases may be associated with skin changes and ulceration arising from 
extravasation of macromolecules and red blood cells leading to endothelial cell 
activation, leukocyte diapedesis, and altered tissue remodeling with intense 
collagen deposition. Laboratory evaluation of patients with primary venous 
disorders includes venous duplex ultrasonography performed in the upright 
position, occasionally supplemented with plethysmography and, when deep venous 
reconstruction is contemplated, ascending and descending venography. Primary 
venous disease is most often associated with truncal saphenous insufficiency. 
Although historically treated with stripping of the saphenous vein and 
interruption and removal of major tributary and perforating veins, a variety of 
endovenous techniques are now available to ablate the saphenous veins and have 
generally been demonstrated to be safe and less morbid than traditional 
procedures. Sclerotherapy also has an important role in the management of 
telangiectasias; primary, residual, or recurrent varicosities without connection 
to incompetent venous trunks; and congenital venous malformations. The 
introduction of ultrasound guided foam sclerotherapy has broadened potential 
indications to include treatment of the main saphenous trunks, varicose 
tributaries, and perforating veins. Surgical repair of incompetent deep venous 
valves has been reported to be an effective procedure in nonrandomized series, 
but appropriate case selection is critical to successful outcomes. ----- J Vasc Surg. 2007 Dec;46(6):1242-7. Endovenous 980-nm laser treatment of saphenous veins in a series 
of 500 patients. Desmyttère J, Grard C, Wassmer B, Mordon S. S.E.L. Angéio-Phlébo Interventionnelle, France. BACKGROUND: In recent years, endovenous laser treatment (ELT) has been proposed 
to treat incompetent great saphenous veins (GSV). This study reports the 
long-term outcome of ELT in a series of 500 patients. METHODS: Incompetent GSV 
segments in 500 patients (436 women, 64 men) with a mean age of 52.6 years 
(range, 19 to 83 years) were treated with intraluminal ELT using a 980-nm diode 
laser (Pharaon, Osyris, France). The GSV diameter was measured by Duplex 
examination in an upright position in different GSV segments (1.5 cm below the 
saphenofemoral junction, crural segment, condylar segment, and sural segment). 
These measurements were used to determine the optimal linear endovenous energy 
density (LEED) for each segment. During treatment, patients were maintained in 
the Trendelenburg position. Patients were evaluated clinically and by duplex 
scanning at 1 and 8 days, 1 and 6 months, and at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years to assess 
treatment efficacy and adverse reactions. RESULTS: A total of 511 GSVs were 
treated. The mean diameter was 7.5 mm (range, 2.4 to 15.0). The LEED was tuned 
as a function of the initial GSV diameter measured in the orthostatic position, 
from 50 J/cm (3 mm) up to 120 J/cm (15 mm). At the 1-week follow-up, 9.3% of the 
patients reported moderate pain. In the immediate postoperative period, the 
closure rate was 98.0% and remained constant during the 4-year follow-up to 
reach 97.1%. After 1 year, a complete disappearance of the GSV or minimal 
residual fibrous cord was noted. Major complications have not been detected; in 
particular, no deep venous thrombosis. Ecchymoses were seen in 60%, transitory 
paresthesia was observed in 7%. There was no dyschromia, superficial burns, 
thrombophlebitis, or palpable indurations. Complementary phlebectomy was done in 
98% of patients. Failures occurred only in large veins (saphenofemoral junction 
diameter >1.1 cm or for GSV truncular diameter >0.8 cm) CONCLUSION: ELT of the 
incompetent GSV with a 980-nm diode laser appears to be an extremely safe 
technique, particularly when the energy applied is calculated as a function of 
the GSV diameter. It is associated with only minor effects. Currently, ELT has 
become the method of choice for treating superficial veins and has almost 
replaced the treatment of traditional ligation and stripping. ----- Phlebology. 2007;22(5):219-22. Catheter-directed foam sclerotherapy of axial saphenous reflux: 
early results. Kölbel T, Hinchliffe RJ, Lindblad B. Department of Vascular Diseases, University Hospital MAS, Malmö, Sweden. 
tilo.kolbel@skane.se OBJECTIVES: Foam sclerotherapy of the great saphenous vein is a relatively new 
and promising treatment option for patients with axial reflux. Its usefulness 
may be limited by low primary occlusion rates. We present a standard technique 
for catheter-directed foam sclerotherapy, which facilitates foam delivery 
precisely to its intended site of action and potentially improves occlusion 
rates. METHODS: A consecutive series of 53 patients were treated with foam 
sclerotherapy using a standard technique for foam delivery at Malmö University 
Hospital between September 2006 and April 2007. Patients were treated with 3% 
polidocanol foam through an introducer sheath, which was inserted percutaneously 
over a guidewire in the great saphenous vein (GSV). All successfully treated 
patients were examined by colour duplex one week after the procedure. RESULTS: 
Primary technical success with delivery of foam along the length of the GSV was 
achieved in 50 of 53 limbs (94%). All treated GSVs were occluded at one week duplex. CONCLUSION: The use of an endovascular sheath 
inserted percutaneously over a guidewire under duplex ultrasound control is 
feasible in most patients and has resulted in high primary occlusion rates. ----- Minerva Cardioangiol. 2007 Dec;55(6):741-53. Effectiveness of mesoglycan in patients with previous deep venous 
thrombosis and chronic venous insufficiency. Andreozzi GM. Angiology Care Unit, University Hospital of Padua, Padua, Italy gm.andreozzi@angio-pd.it. AIM: Retrospective analysis of mesoglycan therapeutic activity in venous 
disorders. The clinical data have been selected from the outpatient database of 
the Chair of Angiology of the University of Catania (from 1988 to 1997) through 
a cross survey between the prescription commercial name of mesoglycan and the 
key words varicose veins, deep venous thrombosis (DVT), chronic venous 
insufficiency (CVI), post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS), venous thrombosis, venous 
ulcer. METHODS: Patients have been selected on the basis of definite data 
relative to principal diagnosis, clinical history, clinical and instrumental 
objective phlebological picture, posology and duration of treatment, follow-up 
visits in the first three years following the first observation. Group 1: 56 
patients with first episode DVT; Group 2: 27 patients with recurrent DVT; Group 
3: 182 patients with CVI (107 with primitive CVI and 75 with secondary CVI). The 
selected patients data have been included in new databases. DVT patients were 
evaluated for recurrence prevalence during the follow-up period (6, 12, 18, 24, 
30 and 36 months). In Group 2 the recurrence prevalence in the normal follow-up 
period was evaluated and, in addition, the clinical chronology of the recurrence 
previous to observation was drawn, in order to find out the recurrence 
prevalence of the thrombotic episode preceding our observation. The two 
prevalence trends ( mesoglycan treatment and episode preceding our observation) 
have been compared with the Student t test. CVI patients (Group 3) were 
classified according to CEAP classification criteria. The effectiveness of 
treatment was assessed according to the changes in the scores of venous 
dysfunction of CEAP classification (disability score; pain; oedema; skin color 
change; cutaneous ulcer). The mean and standard deviation of the considered 
scores have been evaluated with the Student t test comparing each series with 
the immediately previous series and with the T0 series. The mean dose of 
mesoglycan was 50 mg twice per day. RESULTS: Group 1 (1(st) episode DVT): the 
recurrence prevalence was 3.5% at 6 months, 9% at 12 months, 12.5% at 18 months, 
14.28% at 24, 30 and 36 months. At the end of the 3 follow-up years the PTS 
diagnosis could be performed in 10 patients (17.85%). Group 2 (recurrent DVT): 
the recurrence prevalence was 3.7% at 6 months, 11.11% at 12 months, 14.81% at 
24 months, 18.51% at 36 months during mesoglycan treatment. In the preceding 
period the prevalence was 11.11% at 6 months from the preceding episode, 16.66% 
at 12 months, 33.33% at 24 months and 37.03% at 36 months. In the remaining 
62.96% the recurrence occurred at 36 and 48 months. The comparison between the 
two series showed a significant difference with P < 0.0004. PTS prevalence at 
the end of the 3 follow-up years was 17.85% in patients with a first episode of 
DVT and 81.41% in patients with recurrent DVT. Group 3 (CVI): all the venous 
dysfunction scores showed a significant improvement during the follow-up period, 
both in comparison with the beginning of treatment and with the immediately 
preceding control visit. CONCLUSION: The results obtained in groups 1 and 2 show 
that mesoglycan is effective in preventing thrombotic recurrence in patients 
with previous DVT. The recurrence prevalence in patients with DVT at 1(st) 
episode was lower than the prevalence reported by the literature data (17.5% 
within 2 years and 24.6% within 5 years). The positive trend was also confirmed 
in the recurrent DVT group, although with a major prevalence (18.51%) due to a 
higher thrombotic risk. However, the prevalence in the treatment period is 
significantly lower than the previous thrombotic episode. Mesoglycan was also 
effective in CVI patients, with a progressive and significant improvement of 
disability, pain and edema, which are the pathophysiologic elements responsible 
for the impairment of quality of life. At the various follow-up points the mean 
score value significantly reduced compared to T0 and to the values of the 
preceding control. In conclusion mesoglycan is a useful and effective medication 
in the treatment of venous disorders, both in the subacute phase of DVT and in 
the long-term therapy for CVI, and is worth more extensive documentation, in 
accordance with the criteria of evidence-based medicine. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Nov 5 [Epub ahead of print] Efficacy and Safety of Great Saphenous Vein Sclerotherapy Using 
Standardised Polidocanol Foam (ESAF): A Randomised Controlled Multicentre 
Clinical Trial. Rabe E, Otto J, Schliephake D, Pannier F. Department of Dermatology, University of Bonn, Germany. AIM: To assess the safety and efficacy of sclerotherapy of the great saphenous 
vein (GSV) comparing standardised polidocanol foam to liquid polidocanol in a 
randomised controlled trial (RCT). METHODS: A multicentre randomised controlled 
clinical trial was carried out in which saphenous trunks were treated by 
sclerotherapy. 106 patients with primary varicose veins due to an incompetent 
GSV were treated with either standardised 3% polidocanol foam or 3% liquid 
polidocanol. The primary efficacy criterion was elimination of reflux (<0.5 sec) 
measured 3cm below the sapheno-femoral junction (SFJ) by duplex ultrasonography 
3 months after the last injection. RESULTS: A significantly greater number of 
patients were successfully treated by foam sclerotherapy resulting in 69% 
elimination of reflux compared to 27% patients treated with liquid sclerosant. 
The secondary endpoints of vein occlusion, reflux time, refilling time and 
patient satisfaction also improved significantly more in the foam group. The 
mean number of treatment sessions was 1.3 in the foam group compared to 1.6 in 
the liquid group. Differences between study centres occurred with a mean of 96% 
reflux elimination in 6 centres versus 39% in 4 other centres. Centres with a 
high response rate injected a higher mean volume (4.3 vs. 3.6ml) in the first 
session in a vein with a smaller diameter (7.5mm vs. 8.4mm). No difference in 
adverse drug reactions was observed between treatment groups. CONCLUSIONS: 
Standardised 3% polidocanol foam is more efficient and equally safe compared to 
3% liquid polidocanol for treatment of GSV. In comparison to other studies a 
relatively small volume was injected into relatively large veins. ----- Am Surg. 2007 Oct;73(10):1067-70. Light-assisted stab phlebectomy: early postoperative experience. Vardanian AJ, Cao HL, Lawrence PF. University of California Los Angeles, Division of Vascular Surgery, Gonda (Goldschmied) 
Vascular Center, Los Angeles, California, USA. Light-assisted stab phlebectomy (LASP) is a technique that we have developed for 
treatment of lower extremity varicose veins. It combines powered and stab 
phlebectomy with minimally invasive surgical instruments to optimize 
intraoperative visualization of varicose veins and to remove branch veins with 
minimal bruising, hematoma, or pain. The early experience with this technique 
has not been reported. We conducted a retrospective review of all patients who 
underwent LASP to characterize the associated perioperative experience and to 
identify postoperative factors that indicated a successful outcome. From 2004 to 
2006, LASP was performed on 268 limbs to remove lower extremity branch veins. 
The majority of patients were women (75%), and the mean age was 52 years. A 
group of 184 patients underwent LASP in combination with another procedure, and 
49 patients underwent LASP alone. Nearly all patients had conscious sedation for 
anesthesia (99%); operating room time averaged 44 minutes, and blood loss 
averaged 88 cc. Immediate postoperative complications were infrequent, occurring 
in 10 per cent of patients, and included unresected or missed veins, hematoma, 
and cellulitis. LASP provides improved visualization of branch veins and allows 
varicose veins to be removed with a short operating room time and minor 
postoperative complications. ----- Vascular. 2007 Sep-Oct;15(5):269-72. Foam sclerotherapy for the treatment of varicose veins. Bergan J, Cheng V. Department of Surgery, University of California-San Diego School of Medicine, 
USA. jbergan@ucsd.edu Treatment of venous insufficiency with liquid sclerotherapy is considered by 
some to be an unfulfilled promise. It was heralded in the first half of the last 
century to be a replacement for surgery, but as recurrences of varicose veins 
appeared in limbs treated with injection techniques, surgery reappeared and was 
dominant in the last half of the century. Just as saphenous stripping was proved 
to be superior to proximal ligation, both were replaced by use of 
electromagnetic energy, such as radiofrequency and laser venous ablation, as a 
means of taking the saphenous veins out of the circulation. Now reports of 
recurrent varices in 20 to 50% of operated cases are making some physicians look 
to alternatives in treating varicose veins. Foam sclerotherapy must be looked 
upon as an entirely new method of treatment. It is useful in all types of 
varices and is proven to be safe, simple, cheap, reliable, and repeatable. ----- Vascular. 2007 Sep-Oct;15(5):255-61. Endovenous radiofrequency ablation for the treatment of varicose 
veins. Dietzek AM. Danbury Hospital Medical Arts Center, CT 06810, USA. Alan.Dietzek@danhosp.org Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) is the most common vascular disease and 
represents a significant health care problem in the United States. Reflux of the 
great saphenous vein is the most common cause of this condition, whose symptoms 
include varicose veins, leg swelling, skin discoloration, and ulceration. The 
traditional treatment of this condition is saphenofemoral ligation with 
stripping of the saphenous vein followed by varicose vein removal, if necessary. 
Recent advances in minimally invasive endovenous therapy have led to the 
development of catheter-based radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of the saphenous 
vein, which has gained an increasing acceptance in clinical practice. Endovenous 
RFA was introduced into clinical practice in Europe in 1998 and in the United 
States in 1999. Since then, over 250,000 procedures have been performed 
worldwide. Procedure safety and efficacy are well understood, with over 60 
publications on the subject in the peer review literature, including four 
randomized trials comparing this technology with traditional vein stripping 
surgery. With the advent of tumescent anesthesia, the majority of RFA procedures 
are now performed in an office setting. This article examines the current 
technology using RFA in saphenous vein ablation with the Closure catheter 
system. Procedural techniques and clinical outcome using RFA in saphenous vein 
ablation are discussed. Clinical data comparing RFA versus saphenous vein 
stripping are also examined. Lastly, the clinical utility of a new RFA catheter, 
ClosureFAST, is discussed. ClosureFAST is a new generation of RFA catheter and 
has exhibited significant improvement in the ease of use and the procedure speed 
over the previous generation catheters while maintaining the favorable patient 
recovery profile seen with the RFA technology. ----- Vascular. 2007 Sep-Oct;15(5):250-4. Endovenous laser ablation of varicose veins: review of current 
technologies and clinical outcome. Johnson CM, McLafferty RB. Division of Vascular Surgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield 
62794-9638, USA. cjohnson@siumed.edu Symptomatic lower extremity varicose veins represent one of the most common 
vascular conditions in the adult population. Associated symptoms ranged from 
mild conditions such as fatigue, heaviness, and itching to more serious 
conditions such as skin discoloration and leg ulceration. The predominant 
causative factor of this condition is reflux of the great saphenous vein (GSV), 
which is traditionally treated with surgical saphenofemoral ligation and 
stripping of the incompetent saphenous vein. In recent years, there have been 
significant advances in saphenous vein ablation using percutaneous techniques, 
including the endovenous laser therapy (EVLT). In this article, the authors 
discuss the therapeutic evolution of this technology, theoretical basis of laser 
energy in GSV ablation, and procedural techniques of EVLT using duplex 
ultrasonography. Additional discussion of procedural-related complications, such 
as deep vein thrombosis, skin burn, saphenous nerve injury, and phletibis, and 
ecchymosis, are provided. Lastly, clinical results of EVLT in GSV ablation are 
discussed. Current literatures support EVLT as a safe and effective treatment 
option for varicosities caused by GSV incompetence. ----- Minerva Cardioangiol. 2007 Aug;55(4):443-58. Radiofrequency minimally invasive endovascular treatment of lower 
limbs varicose veins: clinical experience and literature review. Zan S, Contessa L, Varetto G, Barra C, Conforti M, Casella F, Rispoli P. Unit of Vascular Surgery, S.Giovanni Battista Hospital, University of Turin, 
Turin, Italy pietro.rispoli@unito.it. AIM: Varicose veins of the legs are a common condition affecting 10-15% of men 
and 20-25% of women in the western world. This high prevalence is responsable of 
high medical and social costs. Most primary varices are associated with greater 
saphenous vein (GSV) incompetence. A new method, radiofrequency (RF) endovenous 
obliteration (VNUS-Closure'' procedure), recently has been described as a less 
invasive and cost-saving alternative to stripping for the treatment of refluxing 
GSV. METHODS: Twenty-four patients with varicose veins underwent endovenous 
obliteration of the above knee GSV by VNUS Closure'' procedure. The vein 
diameters were from 5 to 10 mm. The RF catheter was inserted via percutaneos 
puncture or through a small skin incision. All operations were performed in 
local, tumescent anesthesia, under ultrasound guidance. All patients were 
discharged 2 h after operation. Clinical and ultrasound follow-up was performed 
at 1 week, and at 1, 6, 12, 24 months. RESULTS: The complete or partial 
occlusion of the treated segment of the GSV has been achieved in 23 cases. In 
only one patient persisting patency of the GSV was immediately detected after 
the procedure. That was successfully treated by ultrasound guided foam 
sclerotherapy. All patients could resume all normal activities within 3-5 days. 
Every patient had reduction of varicosities, leg pain, fatigue and oedema. 
Adverse sequelae were minimal: 2 patients had transient thigh paresthesias. We 
didn't report deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism (mean follow-up 26.7 
months, range 15-33 months). CONCLUSION: A literature review and the 
authors'experience reveal that, in absence of significant complications, such as 
deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, there are significant advantages in 
the RF endovascular obliteration of the GSV. In effect, the Closure'' procedure, 
in selected patients, offers reduced postoperative pain, shorter sick leaves, 
faster return to normal activities compared with vein stripping, and it appears 
to be cost-saving for society. The mid-term (36 months) recurrence rates after 
RF obliteration seem to be similar to the results of the conventional surgical 
management. ----- Br J Surg. 2007 Aug;94(8):925-36. Systematic review of foam sclerotherapy for varicose veins. Jia X, Mowatt G, Burr JM, Cassar K, Cook J, Fraser C. Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. BACKGROUND AND METHOD:: Foam sclerotherapy is a potential treatment for varicose 
veins. A systematic review was undertaken to assess its safety and efficacy. 
RESULTS:: Sixty-nine studies were included. The median rates of serious adverse 
events, including pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis, were less than 1 
per cent. The median rate of visual disturbance was 1.4 per cent, headache 4.2 
per cent, thrombophlebitis 4.7 per cent, matting/skin staining/pigmentation 17.8 
per cent and pain at the site of injection 25.6 per cent. The median rate of 
complete occlusion of treated veins was 87.0 per cent and for recurrence or 
development of new veins it was 8.1 per cent. Meta-analysis for complete 
occlusion suggests that foam sclerotherapy is less effective than surgery 
(relative risk (RR) 0.86 (95 per cent confidence interval (c.i.) 0.67 to 1.10)) 
but more effective than liquid sclerotherapy (RR 1.39 (95 per cent c.i. 0.91 to 
2.11)), although there was substantial heterogeneity between studies. 
CONCLUSION:: Serious adverse events associated with foam sclerotherapy are rare. 
There is insufficient evidence to allow a meaningful comparison of the 
effectiveness of this treatment with that of other minimally invasive therapies 
or surgery. Copyright (c) 2007 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published 
by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Aug;34(2):232-5. Epub 2007 May 15. The use of foam sclerotherapy for varicose veins: a survey of the 
members of the vascular society of great britain and ireland. O'Hare JL, Earnshaw JJ. Gloucestershire Royal Hospital, UK. OBJECTIVES: The aim was to explore the current experience and practice of 
vascular surgeons in the United Kingdom and Ireland regarding foam sclerotherapy 
for varicose veins. METHOD: A postal questionnaire was sent to 609 members of 
the Vascular Society of Great Britain and Ireland. RESULTS: There were 281 
responses (47%). Seventy surgeons (25%) used foam sclerotherapy. Most use it 
selectively; few (29%) offer it to all patients. It was more likely to be used 
for recurrent varices (71%), in older patients (61%) and for smaller non-saphenous 
varices (67%). The majority of surgeons (69%) used sodium tetradecyl sulphate 
and up to a maximum of 10-12ml of foam. The majority used ultrasound guidance 
(95%), leg elevation (69%) and direct pressure over the saphenofemoral or 
saphenopopliteal junction during injection (63%). Eighty per cent used 
compression bandaging after treatment, usually for 7 days (44%). Ninety percent 
advised compression stockings, usually Class II (64%) for 14 days (39%). Serious 
complications were few, but eleven surgeons had seen a deep vein thrombosis, two 
had seen a patient with a stroke and one a transient ischaemic attack. 
CONCLUSION: Foam sclerotherapy was used by a quarter of surgeons who replied to 
the survey. Aspects of technique varied considerably and studies to determine 
optimal techniques are needed. Serious complications with the technique were 
rare. ----- Ann Vasc Surg. 2007 Jul-Aug;21(4):535-43. Epub 2007 May 18. Echo-sclerosis hemodynamic conservative: a new technique for 
varicose vein treatment. Bernardini E, Piccioli R, De Rango P, Bisacci C, Pagliuca V, Bisacci R. Interuniversity Center for Research and Education of Phlebology, University of 
Perugia, Perugia, Italy. Treatment of venous insufficiency has been revolutionized by introduction of 
various less invasive procedures. The echo-sclerosis hemodynamic conservative (ESEC) 
technique is a completely new treatment of varicose veins that combines 
ultrasound-monitored sclerosis, innovative sclerotherapy findings, and 
hemodynamic principles. The objective of venous stasis suppression is achieved 
by the ESEC technique through a conservative and functional approach that 
preserves venous drainage and saphenous vessel integrity. The technique is 
efficient, simple, safe, in-office manageable, and easily repeatable, although 
it obviously requires training and skill. It may be considered as the primary 
treatment for most varicose patients. Evaluation of long-term results, with 
regard to comparison with other techniques, should assess cost efficacy from a 
lifelong point of view. ----- Chirurg. 2007 Jul;78(7):620-629. [Primary varicosis.] [Article in German] Noppeney T, Rewerk S, Winkler M, Nüllen H, Schmedt HC. Zentrum für Gefäßmedizin, Obere Turnstraße 8–10, 90429, Nürnberg, Deutschland, 
TNoppeney.Nbg@t-online.de. The classic varicose vein operation still represents the "gold standard" in the 
operative therapy of varicose veins. The results of this procedure in view of 
perioperative complications are very good, with the incidence of perioperative 
deep venous thrombosis varying between 0.05% and 0.1%. Recurrence rates between 
6% and 60% are published. However, the true recurrence rate is unknown since an 
exact definition of recurrent varicosis is still lacking. In recurrent varices 
it is essential to distinguish between disease progression, including 
neorevascularisation, and technical errors. Endovascular procedures for 
elimination of the superficial venous system - radiofrequency obliteration and 
endovenous laser therapy - meanwhile have established themselves as alternative, 
minimally invasive procedures. The perioperative complication rate of endovenous 
procedures is very low and comparable to that of the classic operation. Good 
results, with occlusion rates of the treated vein around 87% to 93% up to 2 
years postoperatively, have been published for both endovenous laser therapy and 
radiofrequency obliteration. For the latter, 5-year results were published, with 
occlusion of the treated vein in 87%. Results in the literature for 
radiofrequency are better documented than for endovenous laser treatment because 
there are now five prospective randomised trials for the former and most 
publications for endovenous laser treatment are single-center experiences. The 
advantage of endovenous procedures, especially radiofrequency obliteration, over 
the classic operation is the lower rate of perioperative pain and better quality 
of life. The spectrum of operative treatment methods of the superficial venous 
system has increased tremendously due to new technical developments. For the 
surgeon this implies the necessity of informing patients conscientiously about 
the pros and cons and available results of each procedure, and carefully 
weighing which methods are at the time best for the patient. ----- J Vasc Surg. 2007 Jun 26; [Epub ahead of print] Randomized trial comparing endovenous laser ablation of the great 
saphenous vein with high ligation and stripping in patients with varicose veins: 
Short-term results. Rasmussen LH, Bjoern L, Lawaetz M, Blemings A, Lawaetz B, Eklof B. Danish Vein Centre and Surgical Clinic. BACKGROUND: Endovenous laser (EVL) ablation of the great saphenous vein (GSV) is 
thought to minimize postoperative morbidity and reduce work loss compared with 
high ligation and stripping (HL/S). However, the procedures have not previously 
been compared in a randomized trial with parallel groups where both treatments 
were performed in tumescent anesthesia on an out-patient basis. METHODS: 
Patients with varicose veins due to GSV insufficiency were randomized to either 
EVL (980 nm) or HL/S in tumescent anesthesia. Miniphlebectomies were also 
performed. Patients were examined preoperatively and at 12 days, and 1, 3, and 6 
months postoperatively. Sick leave, time to normal physical activity, pain 
score, use of analgesics, Aberdeen score, Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 
quality-of-life score, Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS), and complication 
rates were investigated. The total cost of the procedures, including lost wages 
and equipment, was calculated. Cost calculations were based on the standard fee 
for HL/S with the addition of laser equipment and the standard salary and 
productivity level in Denmark. RESULTS: A follow-up of 6 months was achieved in 
121 patients (137 legs). The groups were well matched for patient and GSV 
characteristics. Two HL/S procedures failed, and three GSVs recanalized in the 
EVL group. The groups experienced similar improvement in quality-of-life scores 
and VCSS score at 3 months. Only one patient in the HL/S group had a major 
complication, a wound infection that was treated successfully with antibiotics. 
The HL/S and EVL groups did not differ in mean time to resume normal physical 
activity (7.7 vs 6.9 calendar days) and work (7.6 vs 7.0 calendar days). 
Postoperative pain and bruising was higher in the HL/S group, but no difference 
in the use of analgesics was recorded. The total cost of the procedures, 
including lost wages, was euro3084 ($3948 US) in the HL/S and euro3396 ($4347 
US) in the EVL group. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the short-term 
efficacy and safety of EVL and HL/S are similar. Except for slightly increased 
postoperative pain and bruising in the HL/S group, no differences were found 
between the two treatment modalities. The treatments were equally safe and 
efficient in eliminating GSV reflux, alleviating symptoms and signs of GSV 
varicosities, and improving quality of life. Long-term outcomes, particularly 
with respect to recurrence rates, shall be investigated in future studies, 
including the continuation of the present. ----- J Wound Care. 2007 May;16(5):227-30. Use of topical corticosteroids on chronic leg ulcers. Hofman D, Moore K, Cooper R, Eagle M, Cooper S. Leg Ulcer Clinic, Department of Dermatology, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK. 
deborah.hofman@orh.nhs.uk OBJECTIVE: Topical corticosteroids are widely used in the management of chronic 
wounds, yet there is little evidence to support this. This pilot study aimed to 
identify current practice by three specialist nurses and to assess the efficacy 
of topical corticosteroids. METHOD: Data on healing, pain relief, exudate 
reduction and control of hypergranulation tissue were collected on 34 patients 
whose wounds were treated with topical corticosteroids prospectively in three 
centres over a three-month period. RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients (79%) 
benefited from the application of topical corticosteroid either in terms of 
healing, pain relief, exudate reduction or the control of hypergranulation 
tissue. Two wounds deteriorated and treatment was immediately withdrawn. 
CONCLUSION: Suppression of inflammation plays an important role in healing and 
pain relief. Applying topical corticosteroids to the wound can accelerate 
healing and reduce pain in certain cases. However, careful monitoring is 
essential as there is a risk of sensitisation with prolonged use as well as a 
potential increased risk of infection. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 May 16; [Epub ahead of print] Randomised Trial of Polytetrafluoroethylene Patch Insertion for 
Recurrent Great Saphenous Varicose Veins. Winterborn RJ, Earnshaw JJ. Department of Surgery, Southmead Hospital, Southmead Road, Westbury-on-Trym, 
Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the possible value of a 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) patch in the treatment of recurrent varicose 
veins. METHODS: Thirty-one patients (40 legs) with recurrent saphenofemoral 
junction incompetence were randomised to redo saphenofemoral ligation and great 
saphenous vein stripping with, or without the insertion of a PTFE patch over the 
ligated junction. Patients underwent assessment preoperatively, and at 6 weeks, 
1 year and 2 years postoperatively with clinical examination, duplex imaging and 
completion of the Aberdeen Varicose Vein Symptom Severity Score (AVVSSS). 
RESULTS: A total of 27 patients (32 legs) attended for assessment at 6 weeks, 25 
patients (30 legs) at 1 year and 27 patients (32 legs) at 2 years. At 6 weeks, 
seven legs (22%) had an area of cutaneous numbness; all but one had resolved by 
1 year. Four legs (13%) developed a groin infection, which required antibiotics, 
2 had a groin haematoma and four had a seroma, all of which resolved 
spontaneously. The overall complication rate was 35% (11 legs), with no 
statistically significant difference between the groups. Four of 16 legs without 
a patch and five of 16 legs with a patch developed neovascularisation at the 
saphenofemoral junction on duplex imaging by two years postoperatively. Two 
cases of neovascularisation in the patch group and one in the no patch group 
directly resulted in clinical recurrence (p=1.0). There was an improvement in 
patients' AVVSSS two years postoperatively (p<0.03), that was similar in both 
groups. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, insertion of a PTFE patch did not affect the 
rate of perioperative complications and it did not appear to contain 
neovascularisation. ----- Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2007 Apr;9(2):115-26. Treatment of chronic venous insufficiency. Rathbun SW, Kirkpatrick AC. Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular Section, University of Oklahoma Health 
Sciences Center, 920 Stanton L. Young Boulevard, WP 3120, Oklahoma City, OK 
73104, USA. suman-rathbun@ouhsc.edu. Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) results from venous hypertension secondary to 
superficial or deep venous valvular reflux. Treatment modalities are aimed at 
reducing venous valvular reflux, thereby inhibiting the ensuing pathologic 
inflammatory process. Compression therapy using pumps, bandaging, and/or graded 
compression stockings is the mainstay of treatment for CVI. Compression therapy 
has been shown to be effective in reducing venous hypertension retarding the 
development of inflammation and pathologic skin changes. Pharmacologic agents 
such as diuretics and topical steroid creams reduce swelling and pain short term 
but offer no long-term treatment advantage. Herbal supplements may reduce the 
inflammatory response to venous hypertension, but are not licensed by the US 
Food and Drug Administration, and vary in their efficacy, quality, and safety. 
However, several randomized controlled trials using the herbal horse chestnut 
seed extract containing aescin have shown short-term improvement in signs and 
symptoms of CVI. Endovascular and surgical techniques aimed at treatment of 
primary and secondary venous valvular reflux have been shown to improve venous 
hemodynamics promoting healing of venous ulcers and improving quality of life. 
The newer endovascular treatments of varicose veins using laser, radiofrequency 
ablation, and chemical foam sclerotherapy show some promise. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Feb 28; [Epub ahead of print] Embolisation of Symptomatic Pelvic Veins in Women Presenting with 
Non-saphenous Varicose Veins of Pelvic Origin—Three-year Follow-up. Creton D, Hennequin L, Kohler F, Allaert FA. E.C. Ambroise Pare. Rue Ambroise Pare. 54100 F-Nancy, France. AIM: To evaluate the clinical results of embolisation of symptomatic, 
incompetent pelvic veins in women presenting with perineal veins. PATIENTS AND 
METHODS: Twenty-four women presenting with non-saphenous perineal varicose veins 
and who experienced pelvic vein syndrome were treated. Symptoms was scored on a 
visual analogue scale assessing dyspareunia, pelvic and lower limb pain. Lower 
limb varices were investigated by duplex ultrasonography. Pelvic veins were 
studied by pelvic vein angiography with simultaneous embolisation of incompetent 
veins. Ovarian and internal iliac veins were systematically embolised when 
incompetent. Follow-up assessment of symptoms and varices was carried out at 1, 
2 and 3 years. RESULTS: All patients presented with perineal veins, 2 with 
sciatic vein incompetence and 2 with a perforator of the thigh or buttock. 
Pelvic venous angiography was performed via right femoral access in 87% of the 
cases and confirmed the presence of incompetent ovarian and internal iliac 
veins. The mean number of coils used per vein was 6 and all were successfully 
embolised. No serious complications were encountered. The mean clinical 
improvement score was 80%, 77%, 80% and 76% at respectively 45 days, 1, 2 and 
3-year follow-up. CONCLUSION: In women of reproductive age, non-saphenous 
varicose veins associated with pelvic venous incompetence (PVI) should undergo 
pelvic vein investigation. In this clinical series we achieved a satisfactory 
improvement in symptoms after 3 years following treatment of incompetent pelvic 
veins. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Feb 1; [Epub ahead of print] Recurrent Varicose Veins Following Surgical Treatment: Our 
Experience with Five Years Follow-up. Allegra C, Antignani PL, Carlizza A. Department of Angiology, S. Giovanni Hospital, Rome, Italy. OBJECTIVE: To report the 5 year outcome of varicose veins surgery and to 
establish the factors determining recurrence. STUDY DESIGN: Prospective 
observational study. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study reports the outcome in 
1326 patients treated in a day surgery centre of an institutional referral 
centre. Patients were investigated clinically and by colour flow duplex scanning 
before operation. Treatments used included flush ligation of the sapheno-femoral 
junction (SFJ) and the sapheno-popliteal junction (SPJ). Incompetence of the 
great saphenous vein (GSV) and small saphenous vein (SSV) were managed by 
stripping of these veins. Perforating vein ligation and hook phlebectomy were 
also used. Patients were evaluated 3 weeks and 5 years following treatment by 
clinical examination and duplex ultrasonography. RESULTS: 412 patients were 
excluded from the study because they failed to attend for follow-up or did not 
wear elastic stockings post-operatively. No residual saphenous truncal reflux 
was found at the initial assessment 3 weeks following surgery. After 5 years, 
recurrence of varicose veins occurred in 332 patients out of 1326 (25 %). 
Recurrences arose at the sapheno-femoral junction in 109 out of 862 patients 
(13%), at the sapheno-popliteal junction in 39 out of 132 patients (30%), in 
both saphenous regions 38 out of 107 patients (36%) and in 146 out of 225 
subjects (65 %) with secondary varicose veins. CONCLUSION: Varicose veins 
recurred despite technically correct surgery confirmed on post-operative duplex 
ultrasonography. The likelihood of recurrence increased in the presence of SSV 
reflux, perforating vein incompetence and post-thrombotic deep vein 
incompetence. ----- Herz. 2007 Jan;32(1):18-25. [Varicose veins: disfigurement or disease?] [Article in German] Bohler K. Universitatsklinik fur Dermatologie, Abteilung fur Allgemeine Dermatologie, 
Medizinische Universitat Wien, Wien, Osterreich. According to one's subjective appraisal varicose veins will be perceived as more 
or less disfiguring. About 60% of the population suffer from only minor variants 
of varicose veins which bear no risk to health. A certain percentage will 
develop progressive disease with the venous ulcer representing the worst variant 
of chronic venous insufficiency. As long as there is no progressive disease, 
therapeutic modalities also account for a superior cosmetic appearance. 
Endoluminal procedures in particular meet with the claim for a superior 
treatment result with respect to cosmetic outcome without diminution of 
efficiency. In case of progressive venous insufficiency appearance is of 
inferior importance. About 70% of venous ulcers are due to primary varicose 
veins. Surgery of all accessible superficial refluxing veins is important to 
prevent recurrence. Compression treatment is highly effective in preventing 
chronic venous insufficiency and in venous ulcer treatment. About 60% of venous 
ulcers heal within a 24-week treatment period. ----- Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Jan 24;(1):CD001066. Interventions for varicose veins and leg oedema in pregnancy. Bamigboye A, Smyth R. BACKGROUND: Pregnancy is presumed to be a major contributory factor in the 
increased incidence of varicose veins in women, which can in turn lead to venous 
insufficiency and leg oedema. The most common symptom of varicose veins and 
oedema is the substantial pain experienced, as well as night cramps, numbness, 
tingling, the legs may feel heavy, achy, and possibly be unsightly. Treatment of 
varicose veins are usually divided into three main groups: surgery, 
pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments. Treatments of leg oedema 
comprise mostly of symptom reduction rather than cure and use pharmacological 
and non-pharmacological approaches. OBJECTIVES: To assess any form of 
intervention used to relieve the symptoms associated with varicose veins and leg 
oedema in pregnancy. SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and 
Childbirth Group's Trials Register (October 2006). SELECTION CRITERIA: 
Randomised trials of treatments for varicose veins or leg oedema, or both, in 
pregnancy. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both review authors independently 
assessed trials for eligibility, methodological quality and extracted all data. 
MAIN RESULTS: Three trials, involving 159 women, were included.Varicose veinsOne 
trial, involving 69 women, reported that rutoside significantly reduced the 
symptoms associated with varicose veins (relative risk (RR) 1.89, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 1.11 to 3.22). There were no significant differences in 
side-effects (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.13 to 5.79) or incidence of deep vein thrombosis 
(RR 0.17, 95% CI 0.01 to 3.49).OedemaOne trial, involving 35 women, reported no 
significant difference in lower leg volume when compression stockings were 
compared against rest (weighted mean difference -258.80, 95% CI -566.91 to 
49.31). Another trial, involving 55 women, compared reflexology with rest. 
Reflexology significantly reduced the symptoms associated with oedema (reduction 
in symptoms: RR 9.09, 95% CI 1.41 to 58.54). There was no evidence of 
significant difference in the women's satisfaction and acceptability with either 
intervention (RR 6.00, 95% CI 0.92 to 39.11). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Rutosides 
appear to help relieve the symptoms of varicose veins in late pregnancy. 
However, this finding is based on one small study (69 women) and there are not 
enough data presented in the study to assess its safety in pregnancy. It 
therefore cannot be routinely recommended. Reflexology appears to help improve 
symptoms for women with leg oedema, but again this is based on one small study 
(43 women). External compression stockings do not appear to have any advantages 
in reducing oedema. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Jan 13; [Epub ahead of print] Initial Experience in Endovenous Laser Ablation (EVLA) of 
Varicose Veins Due to Small Saphenous Vein Reflux. Theivacumar NS, Beale RJ, Mavor AI, Gough MJ. Leeds Vascular Institute, The General Infirmary at Leeds, Great George Street, 
Leeds, LS1 3EX, UK. OBJECTIVE: Conventional surgery for varicose veins due to small saphenous reflux 
is associated with high recurrence rates (up to 50%), many resulting from 
inadequate surgery. This prospective audit examines the safety and efficacy of 
EVLA in the treatment of this. METHOD: 65 patients (68 limbs) with varicosities 
due to primary or recurrent sapheno-popliteal junction (SPJ) and small saphenous 
vein (SSV) reflux underwent out-patient EVLA (810nm diode laser). The SSV was 
ablated from mid-calf to the SPJ. Symptomatic improvement (Aberdeen Varicose 
Vein Severity Score [AVVSS]), time to return to normal activity, post-EVLA 
analgesic requirements, and complications were recorded. RESULTS: Duplex 
ultrasound follow-up (median 6-months) confirmed abolition of SPJ/SSV reflux in 
all limbs following a median total laser energy delivery of 1131J (IQR 928-1364) 
at an energy density of 66.3 Joules/cm (IQR 54.2-71.6). AVVSS improved from 15.4 
(IQR 11.8-19.7) to 4.6 (IQR 3.2-6.7) at three months (p<0.001). Median analgesia 
requirement was 3 days (23% [15/65] patients required none) and the median time 
to normal activity was 0 (0-4) days (65% [42/65] returning to normal daily 
activity immediately). There were no instances of skin burns or DVT but 3 
patients (4.4%) developed transient cutaneous numbness (sural nerve). 98% 
(64/65) patients would undergo EVLT again. CONCLUSIONS: EVLA abolished SPJ/SSV 
reflux in all limbs. This is likely to be more effective than conventional 
surgery, although long-term follow up is required. Data from a randomised 
control trial would be desirable. ----- Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2007 Jan 12; [Epub ahead of print] Foam Sclerotherapy Combined with Surgical Treatment for Recurrent 
Varicose Veins: Short Term Results. Creton D, Uhl JF. Denis Creton, EC A Pare, rue A Pare, 54100 F-Nancy, France. OBJECTIVE: To study the short term results of combined peroperative foam 
sclerotherapy (PFS) and surgical treatment for recurrent varicose veins. 
METHODS: PFS was used to treat 129 limbs with recurrent varices: 100 great 
saphenous (GSV), 29 small saphenous veins (SSV). Foam was prepared with 1% 
polidocanol mixed with 4 times its volume of air. The 100 GSVs comprised 28 
trunks directly connected with the femoral vein, 28 connected to a lymph node 
venous network, 11 associated with perforators and 33 isolated trunks. The 29 
SSVs comprised 4 trunks directly connected to the popliteal vein, 7 isolated 
trunks, 15 popliteal perforators and 3 recanalisations after SSV stripping. All 
operations included phlebectomies. In twenty limbs re-ligation of the SFJ and 4 
SPJs was carried out. All were performed under local anaesthesia in an 
ambulatory setting. Patients were assessed clinically and by colour duplex 
ultrasound after 3 and 40 days follow-up. RESULTS: 120 patients (93%) showed 
complete obliteration of saphenous trunks, junctions and varices. The 9 
incomplete obliterations were 3 venous recanalisations in the SSV compartment 
and 6 perforators (4 popliteal and 2 femoral). Two asymptomatic deep venous 
thromboses were detected by colour duplex 3 days after operation. CONCLUSION: 
PFS facilitates surgical treatment of recurrent varicose veins. There is a small 
risk of post-operative deep vein thrombosis. ----- J Vasc Surg. 2006 Nov;44(5):1118-25. A systematic review of randomized controlled trials of wound 
dressings for chronic venous ulcer. O'Donnell TF Jr, Lau J. Vascular Service and the Center for Wound Healing, Tufts-New England Medical 
Center, Boston, MA 02111, USA. todonnell@tufts-nemc.org OBJECTIVE: To determine whether more "modern" complex wound dressings further 
improve the healing of venous ulcers over that with simple wound dressings, we 
conducted a systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of wound 
dressing trials that were published from October 1, 1997, through September 1, 
2005. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, CINAHL, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials 
Registry Database to identify RCTs. Criteria for ultimate selection included 
treatment with compression and an objective outcome describing the proportion of 
wounds healed. Twenty RCTs were identified that satisfied these criteria and 
were classified into three wound dressing classes: semiocclusive/occlusive group 
(n = 8), growth factor group (n = 7), and human skin equivalent group (n = 5). 
RESULTS: Assessment of study design quality for the 20 RCTs showed a low 
percentage (<49%) of RCTs that incorporated at least 3 of 7 indicators of trial 
quality, but it seemed better in the 5 RCTs that showed significance for ulcer 
healing; 4 of the studies used at least 6 of the 7 characteristics of adequate 
study design. Five (25%) of the 20 RCTs had a statistically significantly 
improved proportion of ulcers healed in the experimental dressing group over 
control values: zinc oxide paste bandage (79% vs 56%) and Tegasorb (59% vs 15%) 
in the semiocclusive/occlusive group and perilesional injection of 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (57% vs 19%) and porcine 
collagen derived from small-intestine submucosa (Oasis; 55% vs 34%) in the 
growth factor group. In the sole significant RCT from the human skin equivalent 
group, Apligraf (63%) was superior to Tegapore (48%). Four of these five studies 
also showed an improved time to complete healing by Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
CONCLUSIONS: Certain wound dressings can improve both the proportion of ulcers 
healed and the time to healing over that achieved with adequate compression and 
a simple wound dressing. The selection of a specific dressing, however, will 
depend on the dressing characteristics for ease of application, patient comfort, 
wound drainage absorption, and expense. Previous Varicose Veins 
				Research: 2002-2006 The Varicose Veins File also contains summaries of past 
				research that has shown promise and may still be standard 
				practice among many physicians. To download earlier 
				research findings on Varicose Veins , click HERE . The Varicose Veins File SM Compiled
    and Maintained by The Center for Current Research, Inc. 708 Aubrey Avenue  Ardmore PA USA 19003 Phone: 610-649-3165 Email: customerservice@lifestages.com Website: www.lifestages.com &COPY;Copyright 1992-date by The Center
for Current Research. The Varicose Veins File is a proprietary
compilation of the Center for Current Research. The information
in the File is solely for your use, and the use of your family,
friends, and doctors. The information is the property of the individual
researchers and institutions that produced it. It is an infringement
of copyright law to attempt to "resell" the information
as it is presented here. Purpose of This Site At the Center for Current Research , we gather important medical information from the top medical journals so that you can be better educated about  current medical practices and procedures, often difficult to find. We are regularly adding new med