Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Erie County Medical Center Corporation (ECMCC) Home Patients & Visitors Physicians Medical Services Health Professionals About ECMC Contact Back to: Specialty Care Dentistry Family Dental Oral Health Education Center Preventive Care Dental Restoration Treatment of Gum Disease Dental Implants Oral Surgery Root Canals Dental Treatment for Trauma Patients Dental Emergencies Quality Assurance and Accreditation Tips for Healthy Teeth and Gums Dental Injuries Proper Dental Care Fees for Services Making an Appointment at the ECMC Department of Dentistry Dental Residency Program > Home > Medical Services > Specialty Care > Dentistry > Family Dentistry For professional dental services at a convenient mid-town location, the Department of Dentistry at the Erie County Medical Center offers excellent oral healthcare services for children, teens, adults and seniors.  Dentists at ECMC have provided care to both outpatients and inpatients since the establishment of the medical center. Today, our new state-of-the-art imaging systems-including digital radiography-provide fast, efficient examinations and accurate diagnosis and treatment of all patient conditions.  The ECMC Dental Center welcomes new patients from across the community and promotes comprehensive oral health including both preventive and restorative dental treatment. Oral Health Education Center The Department of Dentistry serves as a center of education to the community on the importance of oral health for both children and adults. Since more children suffer from tooth decay than any other infectious disease, children and their parents are encouraged to eat nutritious meals and avoid snacking, particularly with sugary foods. Parents are also advised to protect their children’s teeth with fluoride treatments. Adults are prone to a variety of diseases of the mouth including untreated tooth decay, gum disease, and oral cancers. Patients are advised of the dangers to the mouth of tobacco use and excessive alcohol consumption and are offered a periodic oral examination and prophylaxis (teeth cleaning). Back to Top Preventive Care Preventive dental treatment includes regular brushing, flossing, checkups, and dental cleaning as well as procedures such as fluoride applications and sealants.  Sealants are thin plastic coatings applied to the grooves on the teeth where most chewing occurs. In a simple, painless procedure, sealants can be applied to the teeth of children, teens, and adults to protect them from decay. Sealants are typically applied to back teeth vulnerable to dental decay and can provide effective protection for many years. Back to Top Dental Restoration Restorative dental treatment includes a range of procedures such as fillings, root canals, crowns, bridges, and dentures. Dentists at the ECMC Department of Dentistry also treat gum diseases such as periodontitis and gingivitis, and perform gum surgeries when necessary. Back to Top Other oral surgical services include the extraction of severely decayed teeth, the removal of impacted third molars (wisdom teeth), and the placement of dental implants, which are used to replace missing teeth. Treatment of Gum Disease According to the Center for Disease Control, gum (or periodontal) disease afflicts one in seven Americans aged 35 to 44 while one in four people over 65 are affected.  Treatments for gum disease include non-surgical methods such as scaling, root planing, and antimicrobial therapy. In severe cases, periodontal surgery and laser therapy may be necessary to correct the problem. Back to Top Dental Implants Dental implants are often chosen as an alternative to bridges and dentures because they are the closest approximation to a natural tooth. Implants are placed in the jawbone and new bone grows around the implant, creating a bond. The implant provides a base for replacement teeth, which are virtually indistinguishable from natural teeth. Back to Top continue The ECMC Dental Center Oral Health Education Center Preventive Care Dental Restoration Treatment of Gum Disease Dental Implants Oral Surgery Root Canals Dental Treatment for Trauma Patients Dental Emergencies Quality Assurance and Accreditation Tips for Healthy Teeth and Gums Dental Injuries Proper Dental Care Fees for Services Making an Appointment at the ECMC Department of Dentistry Contact Info Dentistry Dental Center Suite 150 462 Grider Street Buffalo, NY 14215 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. General Information: (716) 898-3189 Emergency/After Hours: (716) 898-3000 Director: (716) 898-3351 E-mail the Director > Site Map > Privacy Statement > Disclaimer ECMC | 