<$100 for 20 gallons (make yourself) or $28 per pint (storebought).
  Mix 2 oz Essiac with 2oz pure water, boil, sip. Drink 3 times daily ½ hour
  before eating or 2 hrs after eating, preferably after arising, before retiring,
  and in the afternoon. Dosage may be increased by taking it more frequently. Buy the ingredients from Herb Products Co, 11012 Magnolia Blvd., North Hollywood,
  CA, 91601, phone 818-761-0351, http://www.herbproducts.com or from Clearwater
  Herbs, 727-449-0772, clear@ij.net I have been using the above mixture for 2 years. I think it prevents virus
  sicknesses because when my wife and I drink it daily, we don’t get sick
  with colds. It is recommended for diabetes victims too. Other herbs, not part of the original formula, that are reputed to treat or
  prevent cancer are: Garlic, comfrey, mullein, witch hazel, violet, oregon grape, chaparral, buckthorn,
  prickly ash, stillingia, chickweed, and rose hips. Others mentioned elsewhere
  in this document are barley grass, wheat grass, goldenseal, echinacea, cat's
  claw, flaxseed, ginseng, pau d'arco, butterbur, and mistletoe. Click HERE to read more about Essiac Mogu (Kombucha) The mogu tea, also known as kombucha (cum boo chuh), dates back to the 5th
  century A.D. Mogu is a fermented tea-like drink made from black tea, sugar,
  live pancake-shaped fungus with the consistency of a wet mushroom. Get the
  fungus at health food store. When you drink the tea, it has a mild effervescent
  taste that is very pleasant and invigorating. Made with the normal process,
  it is completely safe to drink, and in fact, it is good for you. The earliest recorded use of mogu was around 500 AD in Korea when a physician
  named Kombu used the tea (cha in Japanese) to heal the Japanese emperor of
  some disease. It was reported by researchers during Stalin’s time to
  have prevented cancer entirely in two Russian towns where it was regularly
  consumed by residents. Much clinical research was done in Germany from whence
  it was brought to the USA. Mogu produces acids similar to those made by the liver. It binds with toxins
  in the digestive tract and carries them out of the body via normal waste elimination.
  Mogu is known to prevent and treat cancer. It also assists in withdrawal from
  alcohol addiction and reduces the effect of drunkenness. It has no known harmful
  side effects in regular dosage of a cup or two a day. Make one gallon of the brew at a time. It ferments and is ready to drink in
  10 days. After about a week of being "ready", it starts turning to
  vinegar and punishes the back of the throat. You may retard the fermentation
  process by refrigerating. Even after the liquid turns to vinegar, the mushroom
  will live on for a month or more and may be used to start a new brew. To make the mogu tea you need this (DO NOT DEVIATE): 1 one-gallon sun-tea jar, crock, or wide-mouth bowl (pref. with drain spout) 1 new mogu fungus taken from previous batch 1 cup of starter mogu tea taken from previous batch 1.5 cups of normal white sugar (NO honey, brown sugar, molasses, syrup, or
  other sweetener!!!) 4 normal black tea bags (normal, not family size) - green tea leaves ok, black
  is better 1 gallon of pure water (not chlorinated) 1 two-gallon stainless steel pot 1 rubber band 1 square of paper towel To prepare it, do this (DO NOT DEVIATE): Clean hands, jar, utensils with hot soapy water and rinse well Boil the water in the pot, then turn off the fire Add the 4 teabags, stir gently, cover Let sit for 10 minutes Remove the teabags Add the sugar Stir and dissolve it Cover and let sit over night or all day to cool to room temperature Put mogu tea and fungus from previous batch in the jar Pour in the new tea to 1" from top of jar Cover with paper towel Fasten towel in place with rubber band Set on counter or in cabinet undisturbed away from heat or direct sunlight Allow to sit for 7 to 10 days. It will ferment. The mushroom normally sinks
  to bottom. A new mushroom will grow on the surface of the tea. It will look whiteish. Drink a cup or two of tea per day. Refrigerate to slow down the fermentation. It will eventually turn to vinegar and be unpalatable if you don=t drink it
  soon enough As soon as one batch is ready, start a second batch using the new mushroom
  just grown The brown slimy stuff is just the coloring from the tea mixing with fungus
  growth, harmless A mushroom is good for making 3 or 4 batches. Give the extras to friends. Start a new batch 3 to 4 days after the current batch is ready. Cycle two batches
  to have mogu always Echinacea Echinacea is a powerful immune system booster, discovered from American Indians,
  and best known for fast healing of bacterial infections, but with proven results
  in getting rid of tumors. You can get it in liquid and capsule form. History of Echinacea Echinacea was first discovered in the late 18th century in use by native Americans
  in the plains states. They used it for all internal and external infections.
  It was their sole option for snake bite. (Cancer was unknown among these lndians)
  In 1887 Dr. H.C.F. Meyer introduced Echinacea in the form of Meyer's Blood
  Purifier. He made extravagant claims for his product. The back label read: " Take
  one ounce three times ever day in the following causes rheumatism, sick headaches,
  dyspepsia, old sores and bites, open wounds, dizziness, and scrofula. In case
  of poisoning take the double dose, and for bites of rattlesnakes take three
  ounces three times a day until swelling is gone. This is an absolute cure within
  24 hours."At this time some scoundrels claimed their product brought dead
  people back to life. Echinacea gained great popularity early this century until the February 27,
  1908 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association in which an editorial
  discredited Echinacea. In the November, 1909 issue of JAMA an article was published
  titled, "Echinacea considered valueless". Pharmacology of Echinacea Echinacoside has an interferonlike activity. It has mild antibiotic activity
  against Streptococcus and Staphylococcus aureus. Six mg. Echinacoside is equivalent
  to one unit of penicillin. Oncolytic activities (destructive to tumor cells)
  have been attributed to the volatile oils of Echinacea. Stress, harsh environments or seasons, or whenever the body is in need of reinforcement,
  Echinacea may supply the boost required to maintain the natural lines of resistance
  to mend injured tissue and to stimulate body functioning. Experimental Studies In 1984 by H. Wagner et al studied purified polysaccharides
  (EPS) from Echinacea purpurea. It was observed that they strongly activated
  macrophages. These macrophages developed pronounced extracellular cytotoxicity
  against tumor cells. In 1991 German researchers found that mice (fed Echinacea) were protected against
  otherwise lethal infections. Clinical Studies A 1954 study of 200 psoriasis patients showed that 90% had a definite remission. A 1964 double blind study of 121 children with whooping cough. 50% were free
  of symptoms in five days. The other 50% were free in ten days. In 1978 a study involving 4,598 patients with skin conditions was conducted.
  The study lasted five months and involved the observations of 538 physicians
  outside of hospitals from all parts of West Germany. Results were: Inflammatory skin conditions (212 patients) has a success rate of 85.4% in
  8.5 days, Wound category (1,453 patients) achieved a success rate of 91.5% Eczema (628 patients) with a success rate of 82.3% Burns (626 patients) with 96.3% success. Herpes simplex (222 patients) with a 91.4% success. Varicose ulcers (900 patients) 8 1. I% success. In 1985 a study found that Echinacea stimulates the production of white blood
  cells in the bone marrow of patients undergoing radiology treatment. 1986 a double blind study of 203 patients with vaginal candida revealed that
  Echinacea was three times more effective than conventional methods. Get a 2 oz. bottle of liquid Echinacea from your health food store. Put it
  on any cut or skin infection and be prepared for a miracle within 48 hours.
  Take 15 drops every 4 hours when you detect symptoms of sore throat or cold.
  How much should be used in treating cancer is unknown, but I have included
  it here because it is cheap, broadly available, and KNOWN to boost the immune
  system. Please note: researchers have discovered that echinacea does not work
  as well for some people as it does for others, for two reasons - body temperature
  too low and slow thyroid. To increase body temperature try a teaspoon of cayenne
  pepper in a small glass of water (or capsules). To speed up the thyroid, try
  adding kelp or Lugol's iodine to your diet. Cat's Claw Cat’s Claw (Uncaria tomentosa), commonly called Una de Gato in Spanish,
  is a Peruvian herb vine that grows to 100 feet. The ground bark from this plant
  is available in health food stores. Take it twice a day in capsules or make
  tea. It is said to boost the immune system and are widely known in South America
  to be cancer killer. Cats' claw was traditionally used by the Ashaninka Indians of Peru. The bark
  contains a rich variety of pharmacologically active compounds (in particular,
  the oxindole alkaloids, especially isopteropodine), which have been found to
  stimulate immune function. Its other active ingredients have been studied for
  their beneficial effects on specific types of cancer, hypertension, and gastrointestinal
  inflammatory diseases. Dr. Brent Davis wrote an excellent article, "A
  New World Class Herb for A.K. [Applied Kinesiology] Practice," in which
  he refers to Uncaria tomentosa as "the opener of the way" because
  of its remarkable ability to cleanse the entire intestinal tract. The herb
  helps patients suffering form many different stomach and bowel disorders including
  Crohn's disease, diverticulitis, leaky bowel syndrome, colitis, hemorrhoids,
  fistulas, gastritis, ulcers, parasites, and intestinal flora imbalance. Pau d'Arco (Taheebo) Pau d'Arco is a brazilian tree. The ground bark from this tree is available
      in health food stores. Take it twice a day in capsules or make tea. It
      is said to boost the immune system and are widely known in South America
      to be cancer killer. Butterbur (Petasites Officinalis Hybridus) and Mistletoe (Viscum Album) These two plants are reputed by ancient and modern herbalists alike to shrink
  cancer tumors when chemotherapy has done all it can. For that reason, it is
  to be preferred over chemotherapy, at least as a first strike alternative.
  A very small amount produces a big reaction. You take it by putting a single
  drop in half a glass of water. Drink daily by sipping throughout the day. Repeat
  for 8 days. Then up the dose to two drops for 8 days, then to 3 drops for 8
  days. Doses can get even stronger. If you take it large doses too quickly,
  you get strange side effects, but otherwise it is said to be harmless. It should
  be left diluted when treating lung cancer. Butterbur (called "plague root" in German) was used to combat the
  plague in the middle ages. It is an analgesic (pain reliever) and can cure
  underlying problems. It is nontoxic and nonaddictive. It is available in tablet
  form under the brand name Petadolor in Germany. Let the tablets dissolve on
  the tongue and take 3 to 16 per day. The treatment is also effective for menstrual
  cramps, asthma, headache, and other aches and pains. When treating cancer,
  it effectively prevents metastases (spreading) after surgery, and should be
  taken regularly in addition to other treatments in the form of Petaforce (available
  in Germany from Bioforce). Mistletoe stimulates normal cell metabolism, promotes blood vessel elasticity,
  lowers blood pressure, relieves vertigo, and attacks and suppresses cancer
  cells in combination with Butterbur. Hyssops Hyssops has a long history of use as a herbal remedy, and is mentioned several
  times in the Bible. It acts as a blood thinning agent and eliminates colds
  and coughs. More recently it has been shown to prevent the spread of HIV when
  used in the form of a tea with other ingredients. A patient with AIDS at North Shore University Hospital, in Manhasset, New York
  began drinking an old Jamaican tea remedy suggested by her mother. Although
  she did not get rid of aids, she began healing after 6 months of drinking the
  tea. She had suffered from disseminated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), disseminated ytomegalovirus
  (CMV), extensive oral and vaginal candidiasis, oral herpes simplex infection,
  chronic draining ulcers in the lower extremities, and an infection called Mycobacterium
  avium-intracellulare (MAI). In six months, she was cured of MAI, her KS skin
  lesions began to dry up, and she could walk again. The tea was made from the leaves of hyssop (Hyssopus officinalis), blessed
  thistle, and Tinnevelly senna (Cassia angustfolia). Cornell University Medical
  College researcher Willi Kreis and colleagues investigated the anti-HIV activities
  of the tea's ingredients. They found no anti-HIV activity associated with extracts
  of thistle or Cassia angustfolia. However, this is what they reported: "Crude aqueous extracts of hyssop inhibited syncytium formation and cellular
expression of HIV p17 and p24 antigens without toxicity to Molt-3 cells. "Hyssop extracts contain caffeic acid, unidentified tannins, and possibly
a third class of unidentified higher molecular weight compounds that exhibit
strong anti-HIV activity and may be useful in the treatment of patients with
AIDS," the researchers concluded. Viral replication was inhibited without
any negative effects on T-cell counts or normal immune function. The plant also
displayed a similar antiviral effect against herpes simplex I, the strain that
causes cold sores. "Hyssop is an herb noted for its anti-yeast, antifungal, antibacterial and
antiviral ability," Willie Southall wrote in Superior Healing Power. "It
means that people don't have to fear ill heath anymore, be it arthritis, bells
palsy, colds, flu, diabetes, lupus, psoriasis, herpes, hypertension, panic attacks,
shingles, MS, headaches, pain relief and even social diseases with a simple food
with no side effects." "Indians used it to benefit cavities, Tibetan Priests offered hyssop to
their deities during sacred services and Persians used a concoction of the herb
as a lotion to help give a fine color to the skin." Hyssop has a strongly camphorlike, medicinal odor. It has been used as a cleansing
  herb for all of the following: to improve the smell of kitchens and sickrooms as a sore throat gargle to limit flu symptoms to improve digestion for breast and lung problems coughs due to colds nose and throat infections mucous congestion in the intestines flatulence scrofula (tuberculosis of the lymph glands) dropsy (abnormal fluid accumulations in tissues jaundice (bile in the blood) as a poultice to relieve inflammations, bruises, wounds, and black eyes as a wash for burns, bruises and skin irritations as a gargle for sore throat or chronic catarrh as a powerful vermifuge. You can get Hyssop in any health food store. Cancer Symptoms Recommended "Schizophrenia" Nutritional
                and Dietary Regimen Well-Done Meat and Smoking EMF
                The Risk Evaluation Stupid Arrogance: So- Called "Naturopathic
              Physicians"... Avoiding
                Aluminum The
                35 Symptoms perimenopause and menopause BAD
                BEHAVIOR AND ILLNESS American
              Cancer Society exposed The
              Man Who Questions Chemotherapy Unhealthy Charities researcher links cigarette smoke,
              vitamin A deficiency and emphysema Brassica vegetables kill colon cancer cells Mammography Is Dangerous Besides
              Ineffective, Warns Samuel S Epstein, M.D. Meat is no treat: THE MARGARINE HOAX Why Your Doctors Do You Like
              They Do Observations The
                  Fallacy Of Vaccination 1 Fallacy 2 Vaccines had nothing
                to do with the decline in death rates Vaccination Graphs Pulse Testing
                For Allergies What Really
                Causes AIDS pdf What Really
                Causes Schizophrenia pdf DNA and cancer Cancer: the good, the bad
              and the ugly Vaccines: New plague for a new
              era Dental Amalgam Powerlines Cell Phones and W