Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Deat of Home Gardening Is a Possible Happening Without Bees! The Death Of Home 
		Gardening Is a Possible Without Bees! © by 
		Lena Sanchez Back Subscribe to "Lena's Health Nugget" free weekly 
		informative short newsletter Prescription & 
		Over-the-counter medication Natural Alternatives Water
        & What Should Be In it We are losing the very creatures that make for healthy plants and 
		pollinating to assure they grow! What do these little winged creatures 
		do for us?
		Bees, just like medicine, have their specialty field as you may not 
		realize. W atching the bees buzz around my husband's garden 
		- each year there are less and less of them - I got to thinking 
		about the contribution comes from their buzzing and gathering 
		nectar but what will happen when we no longer have them in sufficient 
		quantity to make our gardens healthy? Most think of honey being the top 
		contribution! Known as the "Magic Elixir" and much much more! Each year it is 
		reported that billions of bees die in their hives but the reason seems 
		to get past us with the help of false information distributed to the 
		news media. Why the death of bees and why the false reports? We have so 
		many chemicals flying around farms and the environment that any one 
		could be a contributing factor. The question is why feed false stories 
		to the newmedia? There are many reasons 
		being given to the decline in Bees. Mites , parasites , cell phones , etc. .. The latest - in 2011 - is most believable 
		as I've seen all the studies in relation to GMO damage to humans and 
		growing weeds that can't be killed, etc.. Researched the first notice of 
		bee population dying in their hives for no reason leads me to believe 
		that Terminator seeds seems the most promising as their coming on the 
		market corresponds with when the death of bees began to happen! Now just 
		last month ( Mar. 
		2012 ) the latest insecticide coated corn seeds.  What they 
		failed to tell the news people was these corn seed are GM seeds soaked 
		in insecticide to try a new way of killing weeds, since their GM with 
		built in insecticide prevention is now growing insecticide resistant 
		weeks. Consider this: much of the corn, 
		soybeans, cotton, sugar beets, and canola in the United States are 
		genetically modified. This means the ingredients made from them, 
		including such common ingredients as corn syrup, soy lecithin, sugar, 
		vegetable oil and cottonseed oil, are genetically modified as well. In 
		fact, according to California’s Department of Food and Agriculture, 70% 
		of processed foods in American supermarkets now contain genetically 
		engineered (GE) ingredients. At this time, none of these products are 
		required to be labeled as genetically engineered. Maybe we should be 
		asking "Why the bees can live or not become mutant ninja bees?" Sadly, the use of 
		Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) aka " Terminator Seeds " - 
		that are presently being endorsed by governments and forcefully utilized 
		as our primary agricultural needs of survival - is the most likely 
		impact on bees and human beings. Illnesses have climbed as the use of 
		GMO's increased, right along with the decline of the bee populations! Genetically modified seeds are produced and distributed by powerful 
		biotech conglomerates. Thier lobbying end has manipulated government 
		agricultural policy with a view to supporting their agenda of dominance 
		in the agricultural industry. American conglomerates such as Monsanto, 
		Pioneer Hybrid and others, have created seeds that reproduce only under 
		certain conditions, often linked to the use of their own brands of 
		fertilizer and/or insecticide. No studies have been done on how the bees 
		extracting necter from those plants will affect them. Since it affects 
		the DNA of the human population you can bet they impact the bees much 
		more so! What 
		is going to happen to our home gardens as well as commercial fields when  
		we no longer have strong bees, or maybe no bees at all? Honey that has 
		long been known in folk medicine circles as a "magic elixir" is known to 
		have antioxidant properties, which we know is necessary to ward off 
		illness and diseases. In a study it was found that adding 4 tablespoons of buckwheat honey ( buckwheat 
		honey comes from bees that gather their pollen from the buckwheat plant 
		only ) to their daily diet, participants showed an 
		increase in their levels of antioxidants in their blood. But when it 
		comes to antioxidants, not all honey is created equal: The darker the 
		honey, the more antioxidants it has. Different honey has a 
		different flavor as well, depending on where the bees get their pollen! Vitamins in honey are said to be A, B1 (Thiamin), B2 (Riboflavin), 
		Nicotinic acid (niacin), B6 (Pyridoxine), B12 (Cyanocobaltamine, C 
		(Ascorbic acid), D, E (Tocopherol), H (Biotin), Pantothenic acid and 
		Folic acid. Minerals in honey are said to be Calcium, Copper, Iodine, 
		Iron, Magnesium, Phosphorous, Potassium, Sodium and Zinc. Honey has 
		tested out to have antibacterial properties as well as sterilizing of 
		wounds and sores. Whether it's the make up or the way the different 
		vitamins and minerals are put together in honey, we don't know but it is 
		a known medicinal addition. Honey is known to improve food assimilation and useful for chronic 
		and infective intestinal problems such as constipation, duodenal ulcers 
		and liver disturbances. Reports abound with successful treatment of 
		various gastrointestinal disorders. Honey, when poured into open wounds, 
		bed sores, ulcers, varicose ulcers and burns, twice a day heals the 
		worst of the worst. It prevents infections, promotes tissue 
		regeneration, and reduces scarring best when used in its pure, 
		unprocessed form. If applied immediately, honey reduces blistering of 
		burns and speeds regeneration of new tissue. Many case histories are 
		reported of this happening. Homogenized honey 
		isn't useful for anything but a sweetener as the healing properties are removed in the homogenization process! In the alternative 
		health communities non-homogenized honey is a well known remedy for some digestive problems, colds and mouth, throat or bronchial 
		irritations and infections as well as bed sores in the nursing home 
		patients. Honey should not be heated by microwave as 
		it is said to kill some of the healing properties. Also good for 
		treating life threatening illnesses such as; Acne (pimples) – Make a paste 
		by mixing 3 to 1 of honey and cinnamon powder. Apply this paste on the 
		pimples before sleeping and wash it next morning with warm water. If 
		done daily for two weeks, it removes pimples from the root. You will 
		want to cover the area as it will stain your bedding . BUT My chosen acne 
		simple quick clearer is a simply spray on of Ionic Silver Water morning and night. Most times disappears over 
		night 
		after the first application... Spray on the acne spot(s) a few minutes 
		before bedtime and let dry. Also works if you spray on in the 
		morning and let dry before putting on moisturizer. Arthritis - Arthritis patients may take daily, morning, and 
		night, one cup of hot water with two spoons of honey and one small 
		teaspoon of cinnamon powder. If Taken regularly even chronic arthritis 
		can be cured. In a recent research Conducted at the Copenhagen 
		University, it was found that when the doctors treated their patients 
		with a mixture of one tablespoon Honey and half Teaspoon Cinnamon powder 
		before breakfast, they found that within a week, out of the 200 people 
		so treated, practically 73 patients were totally Relieved of pain, and 
		within a month, mostly all the patients who could not Walk or move 
		around because of arthritis started walking without pain. Heart disease- It is said that if you make a mixture of honey and 
		cinnamon and eat daily heart disease disappears. I do not know this 
		personally though! Lower cholesterol ( cholesterol under 300 is not a problem and 
		you should not work to be lowered, regardless of what your doctor tells 
		you. It is a known fact by most medical scientists that levels below 300 
		assists in creating dementia and Alzheimer's). Two tablespoons of honey and three teaspoons of 
		Cinnamon Powder mixed in 16 ounces of tea water, given to a cholesterol 
		patient, was found to reduce The level of cholesterol in the blood by 10 
		percent within two hours. As Mentioned for arthritic patients, if taken 
		three times a day, any chronic Cholesterol is cured. According to 
		information received in the said Journal, pure honey taken with food 
		daily relieves complaints of cholesterol. Cancer - Research in Japan and Australia has revealed that 
		advanced cancer of the stomach and bones have been cured successfully. 
		Patients suffering from these kinds of cancer should daily take one 
		tablespoon of honey with one teaspoon of cinnamon powder for one month 
		three times a day. Diabetes -
		Honey is far better to use as a sweetener for diabetics than sugar as 
		insulin levels are lower when compared to the uptake of equal caloric 
		values of other foods. My belief is, nature made our body's to react to 
		natural substances better than man made sugar, and some data exists to 
		back up that belief. Hearing Losses – This has not been proven in testing but 
		historically is said to restore severe 
		nerve deafness but some areas of the ear can be restored when taking two 
		tablespoons of honey along with two tablespoons of cinnamon powder. Skin - Ancients of the 
		past Long touted honey as a life extending health supplement. The most 
		effective was found to be tea made with honey and cinnamon powder, 
		daily. Take four spoons of honey, one spoon of cinnamon powder, and 
		three cups of boiling water to make a tea. Drink 1/4 cup, three to four 
		times a day. It keeps the skin fresh and soft and said to arrest old 
		age. Weight Loss - Daily in the morning 
		one half hour before breakfast on an empty stomach And at night before 
		sleeping, drink honey and cinnamon powder boiled in one Cup of water. If 
		taken regularly, it reduces the weight of even the most obese person. 
		Also, drinking this mixture regularly does not allow the fat to 
		accumulate in the body even though the person may eat a high calorie 
		diet. For centuries honey, beeswax, and various other bee products have quite a following in 
		many Asian countries, as well as in Russia and the rest of Eastern 
		Europe. One of the biggest health claims is that bee venom cures 
		multiple sclerosis, but I find no historical cases to back up the claim 
		even though I've read of people using bee stings for that purpose as 
		well as for arthritis.  I don't doubt it for a minute... Disclaimer : 
		None of these remedies will be long lasting if you do not have a minerals balance , a healthy diet ( stay 
		way from prepackaged, processed foods filled with food additives and no 
		nutrients ), exercise 
		regularly to balance your body’s organ functions! Another aspect of the bees; the purity of beeswax candles compared to 
		the paraffin candles most people burn in their homes. I hate to break it 
		to you romantic types, but paraffin candles are just a spiffed-up 
		version of petroleum products with large doses of chemical fragrance. 
		And they release decidedly unromantic elements, such as toxins along 
		with soot and smoke, while burning. Burning paraffin candles has 
		been compared to breathing in diesel fumes. I don't know about you, but 
		that would kill the mood for me. But beeswax candles don't have that 
		problem. In fact, burning beeswax produces negative ions, which are 
		nature's air purifiers. Honey can be used as an alternative to sugar in baking, cereals and any 
		thing you want to add a bit of flavor without interrupting insulin 
		absorption! If you find yourself with a cough make your own healthy natural cough syrup. Herbal/Honey cough syrup 1 tablespoon licorice root 1 tablespoon marshmallow root 1 tablespoon plantain leaf 1 teaspoon thyme leaf 1 pint purified/filtered water 4 tablespoons honey 1 Tablespoon cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon anise essential oil (optional) Prepare a triple-strength tea by simmering the herbs in water for 10 
		minutes, then steeping for 20 minutes. Strain the tea, then stir in 
		honey and cinnamon while the tea is still warm. Add optional essential 
		oil. Take 1 tablespoon at a time. Stored in a cool place, this syrup 
		will keep for 2 weeks. In the refrigerator, it will keep for several 
		months. this recipe is suitable for children, but not for infants, who 
		should not have raw honey. 6 fresh garlic cloves (minced) 2 cups purified/filtered water 1 tablespoon white vinegar 3/4 cup honey Bring water and minced garlic to a boil. Turn burner off and let steep 
		for about 20 minutes OR put into Vita Mixer and liquefy (no vitamixer - 
		let set until cool, then strain). Add vinegar and honey mix well and let 
		sit until cool, then refrigerate. 1 Tablespoon three or four times a day. Much better than any 
		over-the-counter cough preparation! Wishing you healthy eating! ***Lena Sanchez a happy Retired 
			Medical Office Nurse/Administrator, Medical Office Consultant turned 
			Alternative Health Consultant took charge of her life in 1992 
			substituted healthy drug-free alternatives getting actual pain 
			relief after 30 years with fibromyalgia, Chronic Fatigue and never 
			ending illnesses all kinds never solved with conventional medicine . 
			Now committed to helping others do the same by educating on truly 
			treating illness and disease rather than masking symptoms. See http://www.antibiotic-alternatives.com Other informative 
			health articles regarding prevention and steps to take to be the 
			healthiest you can be foun