Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bacterial Vaginosis - Pharmacists reveal natural home remedies to reduce the risk of recurrent BV. Latest Updates Common Questions Herbs A - Z Common Herbs Health Conditions A-Z Common Conditions References [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Bacterial
Vaginosis (BV) (Vaginitis) Introduction Bacterial Vaginosis - Vaginitis is an inflammation of the vagina and vulva) that is often
caused by fungus ( yeast
infection ), parasite (trichomoniasis) or bacteria (bacterial
vaginosis or BV). Frequently
Asked Questions & Facts What are the
causes and risk factors of recurrent BV? What
are the symptoms of BV? What
diet can I take to prevent this problem? Natural Remedies to
Prevent Recurrent Bacterial Vaginosis Note : Antibiotic
is mostly likely required to cure this condition. Seek the advice of
your doctor. Natural remedies can be used to reduce recurrent BV and to
also restore the bacterial (lactobacillus)
normally found in the vagina. Also see the article on yeast
infection to find out many other natural remedies that may
also be helpful for this condition. Natural
Remedy What
experts say about them Lactobacillus acidophilus (What's this?) This
is an essential bacterial that is normally found in the vagina. Women
suffering from this condition have either low amounts or none of
this "good" bacterial in the vagina. Dose :
Use 1 or 2 vaginal
tablets once or
twice daily for 6 days. Each tablet may contain 10 million to 1 billion
live lactobacillus bacteria. Some experts suggest inserting unflavoured
yogurt into the vagina (directly or soak a tampon) to help restore the
lactobacillus population. Boric Acid A
pH of greater than 4.5 is one of the diagnosis of BV.
Boric acid will acidify the vagina, bring the pH value down. Dose :
Insert one 600 mg boric acid capsules vaginally once daily for 3
weeks after antibiotic therapy prescribed by your doctor. Garlic Helpful Since garlic possess antibacterial activity it has been suggested for
treating this condition. Dose :
Take 200 to 400 mg three times daily. There are anecdotal
reports to suggest that a peeled whole clove of garlic can be wrapped
in a
gauze and inserted in the vagina to help treat this condition. Do patch
test first to see if you develop an allergic reaction or
irritation as it
is a common side effect. Tea
Tree Oil Helpful Tea tree oil shows strong antibacterial properties and may be helpful
in treating this condition. Click
here to get dosing information for vaginal douche formula. Frequently
Asked Questions & Facts What
are the causes and risk factors of recurrent
bacterial
vaginosis? It is known that bacterial vaginosis results when: Vagina natural bacteria (mostly lactobacillus)
is out of balance Absences or too little lactobacillus in the
vagina vagina pH is disturbed (too alkaline/not
acidic enough) Common causes for this can be due to: Douching (irritation) Dampness due to lack of tight or non-breathing
clothing Antibiotics uses (changes the bacterial
environment in the vagina) Risk factors include: Poor diet Multiple sexual partners Engaging in sexual intercourse at an early age Stress Use of an intrauterine device (IUD) History of previous or recurrent sexually
transmitted disease (STD) Prior pregnancy What
are the symptoms of bacterial vaginosis? Signs and symptoms that points towards bacterial vaginitis include: Itching Burning sensation Irritation Fishy odour, thin, milky or gray discharge If the discharge is white and looks like cottage cheese, it is
probably yeast infection . What
diet can I take to prevent this problem? The treatment of bacterial vaginosis requires the use of antibiotics
from your doctor to kill off the overgrowth of other bacteria. Natural
home remedies can be used to help lessen the symptoms are similar to
what is used to cure yeast
infections . Yogurt can be eaten or unflavoured yogurt can be inserted into the
vagina to restore the lactobacillus bacteria population. Related Topics Garlic - The cure for infections and heart disease? Tea Tree Oil for curing BV Return to Health Conditions References & Supplemental
Referencesfor Bacterial Vaginosis Created:
November 13, 2009 Use the search box below to
quickly find what you are looking for! Ho