
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 23:38:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_fcgid/2.3.6
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://offercreditcards.org/footpain/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Prevent | Foot Pain Foot Pain Can Working On Your Computer Cause Foot Pain? Posts Tagged ‘Prevent’ 18 Mar 12 How to Prevent Foot Ulcerations for Persons With Diabetes One of the foremost concerns for persons with diabetes is proper foot care. Complications arising from diabetes can be varied and wide-ranging, affecting various bodily organs – from the eyes, heart and kidneys to the feet. This is mainly because of permanent damages to the small blood vessels within these organs, poor blood circulation and neuropathy arising from the continuous ravages of diabetes over time. The foot in particular, is a primary concern or diabetics. A good percentage of diabetics, mostly the Type II Diabetes sufferers only learn that they have this disease a little too late. They already suffer from complications before they acquire the knowledge of how to effectively prevent this from happening or to somewhat delay as much as possible the onset of such complications. Slow-healing foot ulcerations are one of the early complications arising from diabetes. It can lead to gangrene and ultimately amputation for a person with diabetes if left untreated at the onset. Diabetics are far more likely to have foot amputations than anyone else, so daily care and regular proper feet inspection by a medical professional is much required. For the sake of information, here are the aggravating factors for foot ulcerations in diabetics: Neuropathy Neuropathy or nerve damage is a fairly common complication for diabetics especially for those who intermittently suffer from uncontrolled glucose levels over a prolonged period of time. Diabetic nerve damages are progressive and permanent. This can lead to pronounced loss of sensations of pain, heat and cold for the affected body part, in this case, the feet. This can be serious because, a sufferer may already have already inflicted some considerable damage to his feet without realizing it because of loss of pain. One may suffer some foot injury such as abrasions and cuts due to barefoot walking or infected blisters due to ill-fitting shoes and not until it become severely infected that the diabetic sufferer may take some notice. Unfortunately for many, it may already become too late. Poor Blood Circulation Poor blood Circulation is another effect of diabetes that can greatly hamper the ability of the injured body part especially the extremities, to fight infection and to heal. Diabetes causes the small veins of the foot to narrow and harden thereby restricting flow of blood that carries antibodies to the damaged part. Poor blood circulation however is not at all uncontrollable. The patient can do some necessary measures to improve or at least prevent to aggravate further his poor circulation by not smoking and by doing some regular foot exercises recommended or approved by his foot therapists. Proper foot care should be observed by any diabetic patient routinely and religiously. This may require inspecting your feet everyday to lookout for blisters, cracks that may result from using ill-fitted shoes. If the skin of your feet feel dry or is visibly cracked due to excessive dead skin, it may be because the nerves that control the flow of oil to your skin maybe damaged already. Apply lotion to the affected part. You must immediately consult a health professional of any unusual sensations or pain occurs. Finally, it all boils down to proper management of your diabetes. This is a lifelong task and the point of all these is to prevent as much as possible the onset of diabetes complications very well into old age. At Last….Diabetes Sufferer can Reveals A 100%-NATURAL Way of reversing Diabetes to Lose Weight, Feel Healthier and Become More Energetic” And it is never the “Cure” for Diabetes is kept out from you….. Hurry, just visit: http://www.diabeteshealtips.com Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Diabetes , Persons , Prevent , Ulcerations 18 Mar 12 Pedorthic Services – Orthotics Helps Prevent Foot Disorders Orthotics is especially designed to treat different biomechanical foot abnormalities. When a person’s foot is not working perfectly, the weight of the body is not uniformly spread; as a result of which can increase pain in the foot, ankle, and the adjacent muscles. Orthotics assists in lessening soreness through repositioning and providing support to the ligaments along with bones of the foot perfectly, in order that the foot can work as it should. Orthotics is produced from different materials besides come in different price range, effectiveness, and is available with no trouble at all. Orthotics, like the shoe insoles in addition to gel heel cups sold in adjacent shops, are inexpensive and are available everywhere. This widely obtainable orthotics can lessen mild foot pain by taking additional pressure off prone parts of the foot. However, these are fruitless, at treating modest to a more persistent foot aches. Further diversity in orthotics is customized ones that are with intent designed to meet the needs of a particular human being. A foot impression or a casting is necessary to be made in an attempt to make out those areas of the feet that are beyond alignment, this orthotics most of the time needs a doctor’s in this case a Pedorthist’s instruction. A Pedorthist is a specialist who is trained to evaluate, cast, design, produce, and fit customized orthoses. A Pedorthist might as well fit and/or alter pre-sized and customized footwear, and cast for customized footwear. The cast is subsequently sent to an orthotic lab in order that a customized tool can be formed to correct any misalignments. The orthotic is then fixed to the person’s shoe to help arrange the foot perfectly in line. In view of the fact that perfectly aligned feet are infrequent, just about everyone will be able to benefit from the use of an orthotic tool. Orthotics can seldom cause harm to the foot, rather they both prevent and perk up all foot disorders that can bring about pain, fatigue, or discomfort in individuals who are otherwise joyful and in good physical shape. The height to which your foot is harmed will decide the specific type of orthotic best and fitting for your foot. A few of the warning signs that give you an idea about that you might require an orthotics are, you have recurrent heel, ankle, and knees, hip, or lower back ache, you regularly sprain if not twist your ankle, you have flat feet or else feet with a tall arch, your shins persistently injures or twinges, your toes are out of shape. Your foot frequently gets injured following spending excessive standing or walking. You could be a fit candidate for an orthotic tool, if you are witnessing these symptoms. Keep in mind that soreness is your body’s method to give you an idea about you that something is wrong. Painful feet are not free from this verdict. Paying no heed to pain can add to problems and cause a lot more severe deformity; thus it is vital to get to the elementary cause for your foot pain. Consult your nearest Pedorthist to arrange for an appointment for a first round of inspection and look into if orthotics is right for you. Jodie is an expert in the field. For more information on custom made orthotics and on orthoses Please visit: westfalen.ca to get custom made orthoses and relieve pain immediately. Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Disorders , Helps , Orthotics , Pedorthic , Prevent , Services 24 Feb 12 Prevent Foot Amputation – 5 Free Things People With Diabetes Can Do NOW Now, lest you think life with diabetes is all doom and gloom and foot problems, please remember that it’s entirely possible to take good care of yourself, your diabetes, and your feet. Catching problems early (and preventing problems entirely where possible) are crucial in preventing future complications. After all an ounce of prevention is work a pound of cure. So, here are a few things you can do: 1) Daily foot inspections – Inspecting your foot daily may not sound like the most exciting use of your time, but such inspections are essential in finding problems to your foot early on, particularly if you have nerve damage. (If it helps to make it seem less boring, you can begin your inspections by donning a Sherlock Holmes type of cap, putting a pipe (an unlit one, of course) firmly between your teeth and using a wonderfully large magnifying glass.) If you can’t see your foot well, or if you have trouble reaching it, have a friend or family member assist you, or use a mirror (the magnifying ones are best) to check those hard-to-see places (like the bottom of your foot). (You can also use the mirror to tell yourself what a wonderful person you are, and compliment yourself on your excellent self-care of your feet.) Pay particular attention to the soles of your foot and between your toes, since this is where problems can often crop up. Check your skin for any sign of irritation or injury. Look for scrapes or cuts (however small), blisters, rashes, signs of infection like redness, swelling, drainage, or a bad smell, or possibly changes in skin color, or loss of hair on your foot or toes. Check your nails for problems. Do they look yellowed or have other changes in color? Are they thickened, deformed, striped, or just not growing? Look for signs that you may have fractured your foot. Check your foot overall for redness, see if it’s warm or hot to the touch, swollen, or has changed in size, shape or direction. If you notice any of the above on your feet, see your podiatrist as soon as possible. Don’t assume that the problem will go away on its own, and don’t try to just wait it out. Getting problems treated early is a MUST in diabetic foot care. Doing so can significantly reduce your chance of developing a severe complication. Set a specific time for your foot inspection every day, just to be sure you don’t forget. 2) Clean your feet – Wash your feet every day with lukewarm water and mild soap. (You can even make this part of your foot inspection regimen, if you like.) Be sure to test the water temperature with your hand (or elbow if your hand doesn’t have great sensation either) just to make sure it isn’t too hot, or have someone test the water for you. Dry your feet thoroughly but gently using a soft towel, paying particular attention to the skin between your toes. You can use talcum powder (aka baby powder) to wick moisture away from your skin, but be sure to get rid of any residue, particularly between your toes. Don’t soak your feet unless your podiatrist advises you to do so. 3) Lubricate dry skin – Apply a thin film of moisturizer (Cetaphil cream is recommended) to the soles of your feet while they’re still wet. Avoid getting the cream between your toes, since this can foster a fungal infection. 4) Trim nails – Cut your nails straight across. Rounding corners down can lead to ingrown toenails, which can become infected. Keeping your nails properly trimmed can also reduce pressure within your shoe and help you avoid other complications. If your feet are fragile with poor circulation or feeling then you may need to have this done by your podiatrist. 5) Promote circulation to your foot – You can help blood flow more easily to your foot by putting up your feet while sitting. (Putting up your feet while standing isn’t likely to work well.) You can also try little foot exercises like wiggling your toes and moving your foot up and down at the ankle for five minutes at a time. Try doing this about two or three times a day. This is by no means a comprehensive list. See your podiatrist at least twice a year, and be sure to tell him or her that you have diabetes. See your podiatrist immediately if you notice any blisters, punctures, pain in your feet or legs (leg pain may be a sign of a blocked artery), change in skin or nail color, loss of sensation, or if there’s an area of your foot with increased or decreased temperature. Diabetes can ruin your feet. Even if you do not have diabetes you can have foot problems. If you have foot and ankle problems click on http://www.puebloankleandfoot.com for more free information. Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Amputation , Diabetes , People , Prevent , Things 24 Feb 12 Flat Feet: What It Is and How to Effectively Treat and Prevent It In this article, I will discuss flat feet. I will explain what this condition is and what causes it. Then I will tell you how you can treat it and what steps you can take to prevent it from worsening and occurring in the first place. What are Flat Feet? Flat feet, or fallen arches, is a condition whereby the arch of the foot collapses, and as a result the most or the entire arch of the foot comes into contact with the ground, rather than having an original arch in between the heel and ball of the foot. This condition can arise as a result of fallen arches, caused by years of wear and tear on the foot that weaken the foot tendons to the point that they can no longer support the arch. In children, flat feet may also be caused by failure to develop the arch of the foot during childhood. Another symptom of this condition is over-pronation, a biomechanical condition that arises when the arches of the foot collapse while standing or walking. This can disrupt our natural walking pattern, causing imbalance, and lead to additional and increasingly painful foot problems with each step we take. Complications of Flat Feet While the condition of fallen arches itself normally does not cause pain, if allowed to worsen, this condition can lead to a number of painful foot conditions, including plantar fasciitis, heel spurs, tendonitis, and heel pain. Therefore, it is not only prudent to take corrective measures to correct flat feet as early as possible following detection of the problem, but it is also a good idea to take steps to ensure that the condition does not occur at all through daily foot therapy. This is especially important for elderly persons and athletes, hikers, walkers, runners and others with active lifestyles who tend to put excessive stress on their feet. Effective Treatment of Flat Feet As a treatment for flat feet, there are a number of orthotics on the market that can be placed in your shoes to correct your imbalance while you walk by propping up an artificial arch under your feet. These orthotics can help correct over-pronation while walking and thereby correct imbalances that may lead to further foot complications. As a daily therapy treatment to exercise and massage the foot tendons and encourage formation and maintanence of the arches of the feet, the Japanese bamboo foot massager is an excellent and highly effective treatment device for flat feet. This device is actually a small half-cut of bamboo, about a foot in length. The natural hardness and curve of the bamboo is ideally shaped to provide a perfect counter-resistance to the arch of the feet, simply by stepping gently on it. This counter-resistance from the gentle stepping motion promotes formation of an arch in the foot with each step you take by working against the flatness of the feet to promote a natural foot arch. Therefore, this device is equally effective as a therapy tool for existing flat feet conditions and as a preventive tool to help prevent the condition from deteriorating into more serious foot problems. To learn more about the bamboo foot massager and watch a demonstration video that shows how this tool can be used as a therapeutic device for treatment of flat feet , visit take-fumi.com . Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Effectively , Prevent , Treat 14 Feb 12 How To Prevent A Cellulitis Foot Infection Cellulitis is a skin infection that is caused by bacteria. Several types of cellulitis are known and named according to the area the bacteria infected. Different cellulitis infections are facial cellulitis, breast cellulitis, orbital (eye) cellulitis, periorbital (eyelid) cellulitis, hand or arm cellulitis, perianal cellulitis and lower leg or foot cellulitis. Younger patients usually have facial or neck infections however, adults usually get cellulitis in the lower extremities. Cellulitis foot infections are commonly characterized by redness, swelling, increased temperature and tenderness in the affected area. Red streak may also appear leading to the foot. Sometimes, itchy blisters may appear and the color may turn purplish. The red streaks may spread out as the infection progresses as a sign that the infection is also moving outward and deeper. These symptoms could be accompanied by fever, headache, chills, body or muscle ache, weakness and fatigue. Some types of cellulitis spread rapidly and may also infect the blood stream if not given immediate medical treatment. Cellulitis foot infection generally causes pain for the patient therefore rendering disability and limited movement. Cellulitis foot infection is mainly and commonly caused by Streptococcus beta-hemolytic bacteria such as S. pyogenes and a Staphylococcus species S. aureus. These gram-positive bacteria are part of the skin’s natural flora. They both secrete enzymes that damage the skin cells and avoid localized infection. In some cases, the infection spreads rapidly and turns into a severe cellulitis case in just a few days. Sometimes, cellulitis foot infections are mistaken for minor skin diseases or infection such as eczema or athlete’s foot. These two conditions may lead to foot cellulitis if not treated properly. Opening s and break in any part of the leg or foot area is prone to contamination of the said infectious bacteria. A cellulitis foot is rarely possible without skin breaks or openings. It is often more practical to prevent an infection than treat it. One of the best ways to avoid getting a cellulitis foot is to maintain proper foot hygiene. Any wound, cut or scratches on the foot should be sanitized immediately. If there are already breaks in the skin of the foot, avoid walking out in the soil or in damp areas without protective footwear that covers the skin breaks. If a wound does not respond to over-the-counter treatments and symptoms such as swelling occurs, check with a physician immediately. Treatment for cellulitis foot infection is done to stop or eradicate the invasive agents and to avoid recurrence of the infection. Treatment usually starts with oral or intravenous antibiotics, depending on the severity. Mild cellulitis cases may be treated at home with prescribed oral antibiotics. Severe cases need intravenous administered antibiotics. The oral antibiotics are usually penicillin and penicillin derivatives. Since some patients are allergic to penicillin, erythromycin is sometimes prescribed. Penicillin and erythromycin are antibiotics that kill or stops gram-positive bacteria only. Severe cases that need IV antibiotics are given broad spectrum antibiotics that target all types of bacteria present, gram-negative and gram positive bacteria. OTC drugs to alleviate pain and fever are also prescribed. Topical antibiotic ointments are also effective in hastening the recovery of the infected skin area. Get more information about cellulitis symptoms and recommended treatment for cellulitis by visiting our website today! Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Cellulitis , Infection , Prevent 11 Feb 12 The Care of Shin Splints – Or Prevent Shin Splints by Building Strong Foot Muscles Preventing shin splints requires that you know how to use your foot muscles properly. This affects all your ballet positions and movements. More basic, is understanding where your weight should be on your standing foot/feet. If not drawn back too much on the heel, the calf muscles and tibial (shin) muscles do not have to constantly strain. For avoiding shin splints altogether, check how you’re standing in parallel, and how your feet are positioned on the floor. Ideally, you have arches that don’t flatten on the floor when you are standing, and you don’t hold an arch shape with a rigid position. The front of your ankle is relaxed because your weight is on the middle of the heel, the outside of the foot at the little toe metatarsal joint, and the inside of the foot at the big toe metatarsal joint. Your body is stacked upward from ankle to knee (if your knees are hyper-extended you have been shown how to hold them in a straight position) to hip through the natural spinal curves to your head. Imagery-wise, your head floats above all of this. Realistically, you work with your rib cage held but not clenched down, so your neck does not have to compensate with a chin pulling up and forward, eliminating the natural curve. And all of that has to do with how your feet rest on the floor. If your feet are flat and soft, standing correctly, holding turning out and getting the weight distributed on the foot (picture a triangle or tripod) activates the sole of the foot muscles but does NOT activate tibial (shin) and/or calf muscles that will strain if your weight has sunk inwards (rolling ankles). Having the weight a tad forward, feeling ready to move into a tendu and take the weight on the standing leg, is an activated, but not tense feeling in your legs and core muscle area. Causes of shin pain can be jumping on hard floors, or extreme overworking. Most often, it is related to not knowing how to hold your feet. A foot that is arched but rigid in the mid section can be loosened up with massage, warm foot baths, and regular ballet strengthening exercises. A soft flat foot can be strengthened and activated properly on the floor. A hyper-mobile highly arched foot can be strengthened and controlled by the intrinsic (sole of the foot) muscles. A less flexible ankle can be stretched properly, but you need to get help for shin splints first. Ideally you know about preventing or recovering shin splints. There may be a stress fracture present, so it’s good to know exactly what you are healing. Make sure you have the most professional advice you can get for dancing in real ballet shoes . Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Building , Muscles , Prevent , Splints , Strong 30 Jan 12 Top 7 Tips To Treat And Prevent Phantom Limb Pain It is one of the most mysterious phenomena in medicine. Virtually every person who undergoes an amputation feels sensation that seems to come from the missing limb. It is disturbing at first, but patients tend to get used to it over time. The sensations usually go away completely within a year. Far more troublesome is phantom limb pain, which ranges in intensity from annoying to unbearable. As many as two-thirds of all amputation patients develop this condition, particularly if they were having severe pain in the limb prior to surgery. Phantom link pain takes many forms. People who have experienced it describe the pain as burning, cramping, stabbing, shooting, aching or throbbing. It cannot yet explain what causes phantom limp pain. Here are some tips that you can consider to adopt to ease your discomfort. 1. Use Your Imagination A relaxation technique called imagery can help ease your discomfort. To begin, lie in bed or sit comfortably and close your eyes. Visualize an activity that you enjoyed before the amputation. For example, if you have lost part of a leg, envision yourself riding a bicycle while pedalling with both feet or sitting at the edge of a lake and dangling the missing foot in the water. If you have lost an arm, you might imagine yourself swimming or tossing a ball. Move the sound limb as if you were doing the activity, and visualize the motion of the missing limb. 2. Soothe With Massage Rubbing the end of the limb can help relieve the pain. It is recommended to adopt gentle massage for 5 to 10 minutes, twice a day. But do not be rough in the area of the surgical incision. 3. Stay Comfortable Different situations can aggravate phantom limb pain. For example, your pain may get worse with exposure to cold. If that is the case, cover the limb and keep it warm. Other circumstances can cause increased discomfort as well. For example, letting the limb hang, going to the bathroom, even yawning. You need to figure out what bothers you so that you can avoid it. 4. Consider A Prescription Certain prescription drugs normally used to treat other conditions can relieve phantom limb pain as well. Low doses of a tricyclic antidepressant often help. The muscle relaxant Baclofen and anti-convulsant drugs are also effective. Ask your doctor whether one of these may be rright for you. 5. Keep It Under Wraps Many people feels better to have the limb contained, even at night. There are several ways to do this. You can wear a rigid cast that is designed to be pulled over the limb, a “stump sock” that provides compression, or an elastic bandage that is wound around the limb in a figure-eight pattern. Ask your physician or physical therapist to make a recommendation. 6. Train It You may want to try rubbing the end of the limb with different fabrics so that it becomes accustomed to the sensations. Try bedsheets, towels, clothing, and other textures. 7. Get Relief Over The Counter For mild pain, over-the-counter drugs such as ibuprofen, aspirin, and acetaminophen may help. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to recommend an appropriate product. If the medication does not work, or if your pain gets worse and you require a larger dose, let your doctor know. Raymond Lee Geok Seng is one of the foremost experts in the health and fitness industry and is a writer specializing in body health, muscle development and dieting. He has spent countless of time and efforts conducting research and share his insightful and powerful secrets to benefit men and women all over the world. He is currently the author of the latest edition of “Neck Exercises and Workouts.” Visit http://www.bodyfixes.com for more information. Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Phantom , Prevent , Treat 16 Jan 12 Learn How To Prevent Back Pain At Home Or At Work Today! Among ailments, only the common cold is more common. Over the course of our lives, four out of five of us will suffer from back pain, and more than a quarter of us will miss work because of it. Tremendous sums of money are spent on back pain. In the U.S. alone, it eats up $16 billion dollars each year for treatment and compensation for missed work. All that pain and expense is so unnecessary. As is true for many, if not most, ailments, prevention is far better than a cure. As many as half of all back problems are caused by improper lifting. You’ve heard it before, but I’ll repeat it anyway: When you lift, don’t bend over. Keep your back straight and lower yourself by bending you knees. If the object is heavy, don’t be a hero. Get help! (Is it any wonder that males 20 to 24 years old are the most likely to hurt their backs?) If you work at a job that stresses your back–medical work, warehousing, mechanical occupations, and garbage collection are top contenders–you may need to do more than just practice good lifting technique. Talk to your employer about changing the way you do your job to reduce the stress on your back. Companies don’t want disability payments any more than you want a bum back. Treatment of back problems is surprisingly simple. Although many people think of the spine as a complex and fragile collection of bones and mysterious tissues that form the weak link in the human anatomy, most cases of back pain are actually caused by muscle strain. For that reason, medical treatment usually isn’t called for. Unless the pain continues to worsen, you can do as much as your doctor to help you feel better. The basic approach to do-it-yourself treatment is to take aspirin or ibuprofen, spend a day or two in bed (more probably won’t help and may hinder recovery), and return to activity slowly. Some other things that may help include an ice pack for the first 48 hours and heat thereafter, a gentle massage, and getting some exercise as soon as possible. You’ll also do better if you avoid sitting for long periods and use a a chair with a firm, straight back when you do have to sit. Finally, just as you can build strong muscles in your arms, you can build a stronger, more injury-resistant back. Talk to a trainer at a local fitness center about the appropriate exercises, or read a book that demonstrates exercises for people with back pain. It may be the best way to beat a back attack. Here some exercise tips: Exercises to minimize problems with back pain You can minimize problems with back pain with exercises that make the muscles in your back, stomach, hips and thighs strong and flexible. Some people keep in good physical condition by being active in recreational activities like running, walking, bike riding, and swimming. In addition to these conditioning activities, there are specific exercises that are directed toward strengthening and stretching your back, stomach, hip and thigh muscles. Before beginning any exercise program, you should discuss the program with your doctor and follow the doctor’s advice. It is important to exercise regularly, every other day. Before exercising you should warm up with slow, rhythmic exercises; if you haven’t exercised in some time, you can warm up by walking. Inhale deeply before each repetition of an exercise and exhale when performing each repetition. Exercises to strengthen your muscles Wall slides to strengthen back, hip, and leg muscles Stand with your back against a wall and feet shoulder-width apart. Slide down into a crouch with knees bent to about 90 degrees. Count to five and slide back up the wall. Repeat 5 times. Leg raises to strengthen back and hip muscles. Lie on your stomach. Tighten the muscles in one leg and raise it from the floor. Hold your leg up for a count of 10 and return it to the floor. Do the same with the other leg. Repeat five times with each leg. Leg raises to strengthen stomach and hip muscles Lie on your back with your arms at your sides. Lift one leg off the floor. Hold your leg up for a count of 10 and return it to the floor. Do the same with the other leg. Repeat five times with each leg. If that is too difficult, keep one knee bent and the foot flat on the ground while raising the leg. You can also sit upright in a chair with legs straight and extended at an angle to the floor. Lift one leg waist high. Slowly return your leg to the floor. Do the same with the other leg. Repeat five times with each leg. Partial sit-up to strengthen stomach muscles Lie on your back with knees bent and feet flat on floor. Slowly raise your head and shoulders off the floor and reach with both hands toward your knees. Count to 10. Repeat five times. Back leg swing to strengthen hip and back muscles Stand behind a chair with your hands on the back of the chair. Lift one leg back and up while keeping the knee straight. Return slowly. Raise other leg and return. Repeat five times with each leg. Exercises to decrease the strain on your back Lie on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on your bed or floor. Raise your knees toward your chest. Place both hands under your knees and gently pull your knees as close to your chest as possible. Do not raise your head. Do not straighten your legs as you lower them. Start with five repetitions, several times a day. Stand with your feet slightly apart. Place your hands in the small of your back. Keep your knees straight. Bend backwards at the waist as far as possible and hold the position for one or two seconds. Having been through back pain on and off for years. It seems to hit at the most inopportune moments. I now am more aware of what I am lifting now. Please take the time to take care of your back it’s the only one you have. Robert Wants to Educate Today’s Men and family members.Health and Fitness Conditions and Remedies. He gets the Cutting Edge Information for Optimum Health and Discusses Alternative Methods to Acheive a Better Lifesyle For more information and tips:  [http://todays-man-health-advocate.com] Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Learn , Prevent , Today 5 Jan 12 How to Prevent Everyday Back Pain Injuries the Right Way! This is some of the most basic advice that you will ever get, however it is so relevant you will wonder why you did not think of it yourself. It is a well documented fact that most of the back pain injuries that we sustain are not caused by a major injury but by lots of little injuries. Think about it, how often have you been doing the housework or gardening or daily chores and injured yourself in the process? Just getting out of bed some times can be a chore and if you feel stiff and sore,stop! If you take the time to gently stretch yourself out slowly it will be worth it in the end. Stretching will warm up your body and will prepare you for the day’s activities. When you are taking a shower, let the warm water run down your back for a while, stretching out slowly in a warm shower can get the body mobile and help in preventing back pain injuries. Before you attempt to do any housework or gardening, stretching should become part of your routine; try a hamstring stretch with one foot on the top of some stairs, only 3-4 rungs up, it is a great way of getting limbered up for the vacuuming let alone two hour’s hard labor in the garden!. Several back pain injuries are caused from vacuuming, so when performing this task hold your body quite still and concentrate on holding your core strong, put the arm into motion and not the back. This will help in preventing the sciatic type injuries from occurring. It is very important to give yourself regular breaks. While this might make the given chore a longer activity you will be glad that you have finished it without injury! It is also critical that you finish off the activity with more gentle stretching while cooling down. This routine will definitely help with back pain injury prevention, avoid those minor injuries occurring in your daily routine and help yourself to remain pain free. We spend a lot of time in our car and if you do not have a lumbar controlled driver’s seat your posture can be poorly affected. Even if you do have all the controls in the seat and you have adjusted them to suit your height etc, check to see how you are looking behind the wheel. Are you sitting straight or are you sitting in a slumped position? To be seated in the best position for your spine to remain healthy you should buy yourself a lumbar roll. You can generally buy them at any medical supply shop and it may be the best investment you will make for a long time. Every time you get behind the wheel, position the lumbar roll comfortably in the lumbar region of your back and you will find that your posture will increase significantly. By driving in the correct position you will alleviate the negative effect that driving has on your back, particularly after a long haul. Follow the advice above and you will go a long way to reduce potential back pain injuries in your life! Now I would like to invite you to click on this link to discover a solution you can benefit from today. [http://how-to-cure-backpain.com] Pauline Carroll is an independent market researcher dedicated to finding solutions for back pain injuries. Visit her blog at http://www.backpainbookcase.com Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Everyday , Injuries , Prevent , Right 31 Dec 11 How to Prevent Sore Feet – 4 Essential Tips Sore feet can make our lives a misery. However it is easy with a little thought and attention to prevent sore feet from occurring. Here are 4 essential tips to ensure you do not have to suffer with foot pain. 1) Put your best foot forward – walk on a regular basis to help prevent sore feet. Walking is superb exercise and both provides a work out for your feet as well as building their muscles. This will in turn make them stronger and more resistant to foot pain. 2) Choose and wear appropriate footwear. taking time to choose appropriate, well fitted shoes will pay dividends. Make sure that your shoes have sufficient padding and support. A useful tip is to alternate your shoes so as to give them a rest. By alternating shoes you will allow them to completely dry out and give the padding time to return to its normal shape. This has the added benefits of both making shoes last;longer as well as keeping your feet healthier. Wear shoes that allow plenty of room whilst providing sufficient support. It is known that as we get older, our feet tend to become bigger. If exercising be sure to select shoes that are suitable for the specific exercise that is going to be undertaken. As a general rule choose shoes that will reflect the range of activity that you will expect them to undertake. This is crucial to preventing sore feet – cramped ill fitting shoes are a recipe for guaranteed foot pain! 3) Rest your feet regularly – give them a break. Your feet will thank you and reward you with years of pain free service if looked after appropriate. This include regular periods of rest. Those who have to stand for long periods of time know how wonderful it feels to take their shoes off. It is particularly important if overweight to give your feet a rest as excess weight will place additional stress on already tired feet. 4) Treat your feet on a regular basis – this can include a massage, or a relaxing soak in warm water with some essential oils such as essential oil of lavender, eucalyptus or peppermint. This will help to de stress and relax your sore feet – I can almost hear you saying ” Ahhh that feels really good” Sore Feet can cause discomfort and distress but much can be done to prevent and treat them. For more essential advice, information and resources regarding foot problems and the management of sore feet check out http://www.sorefeetsolved.com . Posted in foot pain | No Comments Tags: Essential , Prevent « Older Entries Recent Posts Got Painful Knees? Learn About Chondromalacia Patella and Your Treatment Options Lower Back Pain and Symptoms Platelet Rich Plasma Injections For Chronic Foot Conditions The Most Common Causes Of Foot Pain Flat Foot – Do I Really Have One? Curing Athlete’s Foot With Home Remedies Pain – Foot Heel Pain Treatment for Foot Pain Relief Categories foot pain Tags About Ankle Arthritis Athletes Avoid Cause Causes Chronic Common Detox Diabetes Diabetic Effective Exercises Fasciitis Health Injuries Joint Lower Massage Massager Natural Nerve Orthotics Painful Plantar Prevent Problems Relief Relieve Remedies Sciatic Sciatica Shoes Should Simple Surgery Symptoms Tattoo Tattoos Therapy Treat Treatment Using Women Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 Copyright © 2