
PlusNews Global | RWANDA: "The invisible condom" and other male circumcision myths  | Rwanda | HIV/AIDS (PlusNews) Sign up for e-mail alerts | Login | About PlusNews | Mobile | Français | عربي PlusNews Global HIV/AIDS news and analysis Advanced Search GLOBAL AFRICA East Africa Kenya Sudan Tanzania Uganda Great Lakes Burundi Central African Republic Congo DRC Rwanda Horn of Africa Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Somalia Southern Africa Angola Botswana Comoros Lesotho Madagascar Malawi Mauritius Mozambique Namibia Seychelles South Africa Swaziland Zambia Zimbabwe West Africa Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Chad Cote d'Ivoire Gabon Gambia Ghana Equatorial Guinea Guinea Guinea-Bissau Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Sierra Leone Togo Western Sahara ASIA Afghanistan Cambodia Indonesia Kyrgyzstan Myanmar Nepal Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Sri Lanka Thailand Uzbekistan MIDDLE EAST Egypt Iraq Jordan Lebanon OPT Yemen AMERICAS Haiti 15 April 2012 Home Global Issues In-Depth Blog Events IRIN Film Weekly Reports Countries Afghanistan Angola Bangladesh Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic (CAR) Chad Comoros Republic of Congo Cote d'lvoire Djibouti Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Haiti Indonesia Iran Iraq Jordan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Niger Nigeria occ. Palestinian terr. Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa Sri Lanka Sudan Swaziland Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Turkmenistan Uganda Uzbekistan Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Themes Aid Policy Arts/Culture Care/Treatment Children Conflict Early Warning Economy Education Environment Food Security Gender Issues Governance Health & Nutrition HIV/AIDS Media Migration Prevention PWAs/ASOs Stigma/Human Rights/Law Urban Risk Youth Most read Read this article in : Français PRINT EMAIL FEEDBACK SHARE {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## RWANDA: "The invisible condom" and other male circumcision myths Photo: IRIN Will men see circumcision as a substitute for condoms? Kigali, 11 February 2009 (PlusNews) - Rwanda is in the process of adopting male circumcision as a part of its national HIV prevention strategy, but experts worry that a spike in requests before a planned public awareness campaign has been launched could have negative implications. Alphonse Ndakengerwa, a surgeon at King Faisal Hospital in the capital, Kigali, said clinics in the city had recently been overwhelmed by requests for the procedure, largely as a result of media reports on research indicating a lower risk of HIV infection in circumcised men. Three randomised controlled trials in Kenya, South Africa and Uganda produced results showing that circumcision could significantly reduce the risk of sexually transmitted HIV infection in men. Unlike many other cultures in Africa, Rwandan men and boys are not circumcised as a rite of passage, and although unofficial information has filtered through to the population, few people properly understand the benefits as well as the risks of the procedure. "For me, I believe that when you make circumcision, it's like an invisible condom," said Ignace Hategekimana, 27, a student in Kigali who was recently circumcised. "It reduces the chance to get infections." Antoine Rwego, a circumcision expert at Rwanda's Treatment and Research AIDS Centre (TRAC), told IRIN/PlusNews there was a danger that many Rwandan men would see circumcision as a substitute for condoms. "If we don't give the right message we can increase the risk of HIV transmission," he told IRIN/PlusNews. Widespread misconceptions Rwego was particularly worried by a belief among many young men that the procedure improved a man's sexual prowess and provided total immunity from sexually transmitted infections, and Hategekimana's comments to IRIN/PlusNews justified this concern. "Before I went to the hospital I spoke with many friends and they told me it was a good thing ... when the foreskin is not there, you feel the sex very well. When you have made the circumcision you can't get wounds when you are having sex," he said. Dr Stephenson Musime, a surgeon at King Faisal Hospital agreed with Rwego. "Some people feel that you will be more of a man ... very many people believe it will make them stronger and that it increases their sexual energy," he said. "For someone who is circumcised it provides some protection ... but it doesn't mean that it is 100 percent protection - alone, it can't prevent HIV transmission - it has to be done with other protective mechanisms," Musime pointed out. When the foreskin is not there, you feel the sex very well ... you can't get wounds when you are having sex Agripine Tunga, 40, who had just given birth to a son at King Faisal Hospital, held a different view: "I believe the association is that they [circumcised men] feel sexy ... I don't want my son to be so sexual." Studies to investigate these assertions were conducted in 2008 in Kenya and Uganda. Both studies found that circumcised men reported increased penile sensitivity and enhanced ease of reaching orgasm, but experts say there is no evidence that the procedure actually improves sexual performance or prowess. Urgent need for an effective communication strategy Health workers say it is important that the public understands how circumcision protects men from sexually transmitted infections, and that they also know the procedure is not a guarantee of protection. "There are many different reasons that people get circumcised ... medical, cultural, religious ... it has to be accompanied by counselling," Rwego said. "We have to develop the right message for the population." The Rwandan government is embarking on a Knowledge Attitude and Practice (KAP) survey to ascertain the levels of awareness and information about male circumcision. "Some people can think that male circumcision is a full protection, like an invisible condom, so with the KAP study we will know what to tell the people and what message to develop," Rwego said. "After that we have to develop guidelines, train staff and buy equipment." The government began rolling out male circumcision in the army in 2008, as a precursor to widespread adoption of the measure by the rest of the population. Rwanda's national AIDS control council will start the national campaign by offering circumcision to newborn babies. hh/kr/he Theme (s) : HIV/AIDS (PlusNews) , [This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations] Countries - Select a country - Afghanistan Angola Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic (CAR) Chad Comoros Republic of Congo Cote d'lvoire Djibouti Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Haiti Indonesia Israel --> Jordan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Niger Nigeria occ. Palestinian terr. Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa Sri Lanka Sudan Swaziland Tanzania Thailand Togo Uganda Uzbekistan Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Photo Lineo Makojoa, 15, with her Memory Book which helps her cope with the loss of her parents Film The TV Presenter MORE REPORTS RWANDA: Aiming towards two million medical male circumcisions RWANDA: Criminalization of sex work hinders HIV prevention efforts RWANDA: Parents, teachers divided over condom initiative RWANDA: Plan to treat HIV discordant couples RWANDA: Trial of microbicide ring in final phase MORE ON HIV/AIDS (PLUSNEWS) AFRICA: Co-trimoxazole discontinuation linked to increased malaria KENYA: Better training needed for counsellors of HIV-discordant couples NEPAL: HIV-positive children, orphans neglected DRC: Kinshasa fashion highlights lack of ARVs UGANDA: Deaf demand inclusion in HIV programmes MOST READ AFRICA: Co-trimoxazole discontinuation linked to increased malaria Socialize Other OCHA Sites Donors Feedback | Terms & Conditions | News Feeds | About IRIN | Jobs | Donors Copyright © IRIN 2012. All rights reserved. 
This material comes to you via IRIN, the humanitarian news and analysis service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the United Nations or its Member States. The boundaries, names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the UN. Republication is subject to 