Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Dehumidifier Buying Guide - Dehumidifiers - AchooAllergy.com 1-800-339-7123 LIVE CHAT MY ACCOUNT HELP LOG IN CART (0) ALL PRODUCTS Allergy Bedding Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Air Quality Control Air Purifiers Dehumidifiers Humidifiers Portable ACs Home Care Cleaning Products Eco Products Furnace Filters Pet Allergy Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Personal Care Asthma Treatment Child Allergy Food Allergy Masks Nasal Irrigation Personal Care Sinus Care AIR PURIFIERS By Brand 3M Filtrete Airgle Alen AllerAir Amaircare Austin Air Blueair Germ Guardian AP Honeywell Hunter IQAir NQ Whirlpool By Need Allergies & Asthma MCS & Gas Pet Dander & Odor Small / Portable UV / Pathogen Air Purifier Filters ALLERGY BEDDING By Brand Allergy Armor Coyuchi Moonlight Slumber Mulberry West Ogallala PrimaLoft Pure-Rest Royal-Pedic Snoozer Vellux By Need Blankets Comforters Duvet Covers Mattresses Mattress Covers Mattress Pads Mattress Protectors Pillows Pillow Covers VACUUM CLEANERS By Brand Dyson Electrolux FilterStream Miele SEBO By Need Canister Vacuums Handheld & Cordless Stick Vacuums Upright Vacuums Vacuum Attachments DEHUMIDIFIERS By Brand Alen Aprilaire Danby Dri-Eaz Ebac Eva-Dry Soleus By Need Basement Dehumidifiers Crawlspace Dehumidifiers Portable Dehumidifiers Restoration Dehumidifiers HUMIDIFIERS By Brand Air-O-Swiss Enviracaire Germ Guardian Swizz Fred Vornado By Type Cool Mist Humidifiers Small Humidifiers Ultrasonic Humidifiers Warm Mist Humidifiers DUST MITES By Type Air Purifiers Box Spring Covers Carpet Cleaning Dehumidifiers Dust Cloths & Mops Dust Mite Bedding Laundry Mattress Covers Pillow Covers Upholstery Products Vacuum Cleaners STEAM CLEANERS By Brand Gruene Steam Mop Ladybug Reliable Vapamore By Type Handheld Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Vapor Steam Cleaners AchooAllergy.com » Dehumidifiers » Dehumidifier Buying Guide Dehumidifier Buying Guide Humidity, the amount of moisture in the air around you, plays an extremely important role in controlling the number of 
							        airborne allergens in your home. The two most common indoor allergens, dust mites and 
							        mold, thrive in warm, humid conditions.  Allergens, such as mold and fungus are present  
							        though dormant in nearly all materials, but in the presence of a food source and moisture, they can rapidly proliferate.  
							        By keeping your relative humidity in the air  below 50 percent, you can control the dust mite and 
							         mold spore populations in your home.  The easiest and 
							        simplest way to do this and to increase the overall comfort level in your home  is to control 
							        humidity levels with a dehumidifier .  Dehumidifiers remove water 
							        vapor from the air and lower the relative humidity in your home. How Dehumidifiers Work Dehumidifiers regulate humidity by removing moisture from the air and 
								     creating living conditions that are inhospitable to dust mites, 
								     mold and other allergenic organisms. Room 
								     dehumidifiers , like a Danby or a Alen , work much like air conditioners--warmer, moist air enters the dehumidifier and then crosses refrigerant cooled coils, causing the moisture in the air to 
							        condense on coils within the machine.  The moisture then collects in a drip pan or bucket for disposal while the air is slightly 
							        reheated before being discharged.  The reheat process is done by capturing and using heat generated from the energy spent to 
							        cool the air.  By being slightly warmed, the air exiting the dehumidifier is dry and warm - which means it will attract 
							        moisture like a magnet and maximize the dehumidifier's efficiency.  Of our residential units, our line of Aprilaire dehumidifiers are the largest units we offer.  The 
							        two larger models are the only two whole home dehumidifiers we carry while the smaller Aprilaire 1710A is
							        ideal for any crawlspace, basement are large space with excess moisture.   
								    Commercial and industrial units, like our Ebac dehumidifiers and Dri-Eaz dehumidifiers , work exactly
							        the same way, but they have features like internal pumps and powerful fans that make them ideal for
							        cleaning, water damage, and restoration projects.  Another key feature to the Ebac line is that most are constructed of steel.  This makes them heavier, but also itself to increased durability and longevity. Dri-Eaz dehumidifiers are constructed of a rugged plastic that is 
							        extremely resistant to dings, dents and cracking. If you are allergic to dust mites or mold—or if you smell a musty, mildew-like odor in your home, or see 
										         condensation on windows, walls, or floors—then 
										         you should seriously consider using a dehumidifier to improve the indoor air quality. Some allergens, such as mold, 
										         can turn into a serious and difficult problem to solve if allowed to grow unchecked in your home.  In addition to 
										         health concerns, excess moisture speeds the natural process of oxidation.  From metals to wood, every material found on 
										         this planet is subject to the process of decay and deterioration through oxidation.  While researching a dehumidifier, 
										         there 
										         are some important factors to keep in mind before you make your purchase. Moisture Removal Rate How much water does the dehumidifier remove from the 
								    air in a given amount of time?  Some Ebac industrial 
								    dehumidifiers can remove a whopping 50 gallons 
							        of water per day!  One of our Dri-Eaz commercial models can remove 
								    140 pints of water in a day at 80 degrees and 60% relative humidity.  Because your particular situation may not call for a unit this powerful, a standard room dehumidifier is 
							        the most common type of dehumidifier sold today.  Depending on the 
								    specific models, Danby dehumidifiers , Soleus dehumidifiers , Alen dehumidifiers , and Haier dehumidifiers are all room-sized dehumidifiers that can remove between 30 
								    and 70 pints of moisture per day. Temperature Range If your dehumidifier is for a basement, garage, crawlspace, or any 
								    other area that might get extremely cold during the winter, you will want to make sure that it can operate 
								    at low temperatures. Ebac dehumidifiers are 
								    industrial strength and have different temperature ranges 
								    depending on the model, but they all work well in low 
								    temperatures—most, like the Ebac 
								    CD35 Dehumidifier , work all the way down to 33°F!  
								    The Ebac 
								    Desiccant Dehumidifiers work at even lower temperatures.
								    The Dri-Eaz line of low grade refrigerant (LGR) dehumidifiers
								    are engineered to work in temperatures from 33°F to 100°F. Danby 
								    dehumidifiers work in temperatures down to 44°F, while Haier dehumidifiers have a temperature range down to 41°F. Soleus 
								    dehumidifiers will function 
								    in temperatures as low as 40°F.  On the high end of this scale are the Dri-Eaz 2800i and 3500i dehumidifiers which 
								    can operate in temperatures ranging from 
								    33°F to temperatures as high as 125°F. Choose a dehumidifier keeping in mind not only the temperature 
								    range, but also the overall climate of the region in which you live.  For instance, in the Northeast a dehumidifier would 
								    be particularly useful since humidity remains high from May to October, while the temperature may 
								    remain mild.  An air conditioner, 
								    which also removes some moisture in the air, would not run enough (due to the lower temperatures) to adequately control the 
								    moisture levels in your home.  In this case, a dehumidifier would be an excellent fit. Humidistat Similar to a thermostat, a humidistat indicates the relative humidity and allows you to adjust it to the desired level. Standard and industrial dehumidifiers generally come with built-in, adjustable humidistat controls, while the smaller, portable dehumidifiers often times do not. If you need to monitor the relative 
							        humidity in your home, we offer an affordable, high-quality humidity gauge, the Acu-Rite Digital 
							        Humidity Gauge . Energy Usage Like all appliances, different dehumidifiers use different amounts of energy for operation. Typical dehumidifiers can use anywhere from 50 to 
										        800 watts. (For comparison sake, a typical 
										        lamp uses about 60 watts, while a typical computer uses about 365 watts). Danby , Alen , Soleus , and Haier dehumidifiers are 
										        all energy-star compliant for low energy costs. Noise Level All the room dehumidifiers we offer are 
												relatively quiet. For those who have owned 
												older models of dehumidifiers, you will find 
												that these new models are much quieter than 
						        				their predecessors. Larger dehumidifiers (whole house or for 
										        commercial use) like Ebac dehumidifiers are louder 
										        than room size units, but they are 
										        generally installed near or around your HVAC unit, on jobsites, or outdoors. So if the noise 
										        of your HVAC running is not an issue, a Dri-Eaz dehumidifier or an Ebac dehumidifier will likely not cause you any problems. Ease of Use Most modern dehumidifiers were designed to be user friendly.  
												For example, Danby dehumidifiers feature electronic controls, a remote control, fully adjustable humidity 
												settings, an auto de-icer, an auto-restart 
												feature, a removable and easy-to-clean air 
												filter, and a direct drain option for 
												continuous operation. Look for these options 
												that will make your life easier: Water level control to prevent overflow Full Tank Light that lets you know when it is time to empty the tank Drainage/Porting option so that you do 
													not have to worry about repeatedly emptying the tank Anti-Frost Sensor (or Auto De-icer that keeps the dehumidifier from freezing up) Movability--most of our dehumidifiers 
													come with wheels or casters for easy 
													transport and nearly all come with built in handles. Manufacturer's Reputation A manufacturer's reputation and the experiences of past customers deserve consideration in your decision. Certain manufacturers and products are highly respected 
										        in the industry for a reason—and the same goes for products which have garnered less respect.  So whether it is a review or award issued by a nationally 
										        recognized magazine or simply an excellent review from someone just like you, it pays to do your research before buying. Warranty A one-year warranty is the industry standard. A two-year warranty is even better! Take into 
										        account what the warranty covers—motor, fan, electrical components? Also, find out if certain customer actions will void the warranty.  Warranties 
										        are your insurance policy against defect and malfunction, so it is prudent to take these into account when choosing a dehumidifier for your home. Order by 3 pm EST for fast free same day shipping on orders over $150*. 10 Years Online Same Day Shipping Low Price Guarantee Authorized Retailer Friendly Product Experts Return Policy Pay No Sales Tax 1/30/12 Achooallergy.com has long been my go-to source for air purifiers and dehumidifiers. Never has been anything short of excellent. More Testimonials Live Chat now! Order Hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Product Experts Available Mon-Fri 8:30am-5pm EST Sat-Sun 10am-5pm EST Customer Service Mon-Fri 9am-5pm EST Call Us at
        1-800-339-7123 Customer Service View Cart AchooAllergy.com Making you healthier and happier through allergy relief On our website, you will find the widest selection of allergy products and the very latest allergy and asthma information.  For more than a decade, our mission has been to provide you with the best prices and an excellent shopping experience. Sign Up To Receive Our Newsletter Read Our Blog Visit Our Learning Center Join The Conversation AchooAllergy.com About Us Our Core Values In the News Contact Us Careers Request a Catalog Receive Our Newsletter Request a Fabric Sample Physician Services Affiliate Program Site Map Customer Service Shopping Cart Account Log-in Shipping Return Policy Returns Form Special Discounts Corporate Purchase Orders Government Purchase Orders Medical Reimbursement Form User Agreement Privacy Policy More Info What's New Popular Products Top 5 HEPA Air Purifiers Learning Center Clearance Coupons & Sales Gift Certificates Allergist Referrals Marketers Vendors Buying Guides Air Purifier Buying Guide Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide Allergy Bedding Buying Guide Pillow Buying Guide Miele Vacuum Buying Guide Dehumidifier Buying Guide Humidifier Buying Guide Royal-Pedic Buying Guide Ogallala Buying Guide Furnace Filters Buying Guide AllerAir Buying Guide Masks Buying Guide Solution Guides Dust Mites Mold Sinus Seasonal Allergy Pet Allergy Asthma MCS Food Allergy AchooAllergy.com&reg 3411 Pierce Drive Atlanta, GA 30341 © 2000 - 2012 AchooAllergy.com, All Rights Reserved *Free 