Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://hypnosisme.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.1.1
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Stop | Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Find out all about Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy and the natural benefits it can bring to your life. RSS Feed Home About Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Tag: Stop 6 Nov/11 Quit Smoking Hypnosis to Stop Smoking by Darren under Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Many People were helped by quit smoking hypnosis to stop smoking. By turning to professional help from skilled hypnotherapies expensive, you could have to remain quite a while earlier than you can acquire an appointment. Hypnosis CDs might be a logical substitute, but like hypnotherapists, the best ones are high price and there are several lousy ones that absolutely waste your time and money. At times, if you want something completed appropriate, you have to do it yourself. Here is a technique of self hypnosis that you can work out on your own, where you can efficiently verify the results of every step. Performing quit smoking technique is quite easy and works fast. You do not require having a tough imagination. This is significant, for the reason that several general self hypnosis techniques require excellent imagination to work best. That is why most people say they have tried hypnosis and unsuccessful – because they do not have the level of imagination required to succeed it work for them. .For that problem, neither do I. which is why I try to exercise props for my own self-help hypnosis. Smoking hypnosis method required only two props: Your cigarettes and certain food you do not like, for example chili or celery. The target is to hypnotically anchor the act of smoking cigarettes to the taste consumption something particularly unpleasant and unlikable to you. That means all time you pull out a cigarette to light it up, you will taste an unlikable sensation in your mouth (the taste of hot spicy chili burning your tongue) and be reminded that you desire to quit smoking. This may be an exceptionally supportive reminder for those who quit cold turkey. It is too a powerful discouragement for those times you feel certainly tempted to smoke, and you can boost the effectiveness even further by carefully using nicotine patches or chewing gum to support you deals with your nicotine withdrawal symptoms. The Following are simple steps required to create this hypnotic anchor: 1. Discover a silence location where you will not be disturbed. 2. Induce a light hypnotic trance by counting backwards from 100 to 1. Do this as several times as required until you feel calm and comfortable. There are other methods to put you under a light hypnotic trance, but this is the easiest procedure for the majority people. 3. When you are very calm and comfortable, pull out your cigarette as usual. However, instead of lighting it up, place the chili in your mouth and bite down on it. At this point, a good number people will leave the hypnotic trance. 4. Do again at least once everyday at the same time until biting down on the chili does not finish your feeling of relaxation. This means the anchor is finally in place. 5. When your anchor is in place, remember to renew it at least once a week at the start, and finally one time a month. For More Proven Methods click here http://www.quit-smoking-today-forever.info This is very simple, proven quit smoking hypnosis practice. Each step is simple and provable. It uses a light hypnotic trance so that your subconscious mind makes the anchor quickly and effortlessly while letting you stay in control. It uses props so even the largely unimaginative and stolid accountant or engineer may make it work for them. You additionally do not have to worry about certain crooked hypnotist mucking regarding inside your mind doing who aware what. Hypnosis , Quit , Smoking , Stop Leave a Comment more... 9 Oct/11 Stop Smoking Hypnosis Reviews by Darren under Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Stop smoking hypnosis changed my life. I would like to share my story and hope that it can change others’ too. I was 19 when I smoked my first cigarette. I figured that I had waited that long, so it wouldn’t hurt to give it a shot. 12 years later I found myself in a doctors office short of breath from walking up the stairs and hearing the doctor tell me that if I didn’t quit then that bronchitis I had would only be the first of many smoking related problems. I decided to quit right then. I left the doctors office and went right to the store and bought some nicotine gum. I quit for 12 hours that day. I repeated this cycle countless times over the next two years. I tried everything I could think of to quit smoking. All sorts of nicotine replacement therapies (gum, patch, lozenge, spray…) and nothing worked. Finally, I was talking to a friend who claimed to have quit smoking using stop smoking hypnosis. I had little faith in it, but I figured that since I had tried everything else I might as well try this too. I found the website for Richard MacKenzie Direct and downloaded the Stop Smoking Hypnosis audio file and listened to it before I went to bed one night. Even from that first listen my attitude had changed. I felt confident in my ability to quit. I suddenly knew I had the will power to do this. I listend to the track at least once (sometimes twice) a day for the next few weeks. It was incredible, and it was almost effortless. In my previous quit attempts cigarettes were all I thought about day and night. With the stop smoking hypnosis it was almost like the cravings weren’t there. Sure, I thought about and wanted cigarettes from time to time, but the cravings were farily mild and completely manageable. I am not over two years smoke free and feel better and healthier than I have in years. This experience led me to recommend stop smoking hypnosis to all of my smoking friends and family members. Also, in my line of work, I am in contact with a large amount of smokers, so I told anyone who was interested to give this method a shot. What was interesting was that some were just as successful as me, while others still had a hard time. I decided to ask them to let me know which programs they used, and to keep track of their progress. I started to see that an overwhelming majority of people who used certain programs were doing great, while the ones using other programs were struggling. This is when I came on my idea to make a free website to review and recommend the programs that I have found most effective. I have spent a lot of time finding and testing products. If you or someone you know is trying to quit smoking, please give stop smoking hypnosis some consideration. Hypnosis , Reviews , Smoking , Stop Leave a Comment more... 13 Sep/11 Stop the Smoking Hypnosis by Darren under Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy The Power of Your Mind: What is Hypnosis? If you are wondering what is Hypnosis after all, and if it can prove to be any good for your personality and life, let me tell you that the power of your mind is something that can sometimes make the unimaginable things possible. You can achieve things that you never thought you could, only if you knew how to use hypnotherapy in the right way. The Earlier Beliefs Even through the recent past many people took hypnosis to be something mystical and mysterious. Sometimes it has been considered to be black magic as well! But what is hypnosis in reality? Today there are hundreds of parapsychologists, psychoanalysts and other experts who are studying the human mind to find out its real scope and range of power. All these people have stated some very interesting and unbelievable facts with regards to what your mind can achieve for you through hypnosis. Hypnosis for Everything Hypnosis can be used to help you with almost anything that you feel is too tough for you to achieve. For example, if you are a student and are finding it hard to study a particular lesson, hypnosis can make your studies appear like a piece of cake for you. You can easily learn something in a matter of few minutes that you couldn’t learn through days. At the same time, we often find it very difficult when we are trying to remember something. You may have seen doctors and mind experts using hypnosis to get that information from you. Hypnosis allows your subconscious mind to assume full control, and lets it operate your systems. Our subconscious mind is much more powerful than the conscious mind that we use on our own will. Making Your Life Better And there is a lot that you can do if you are able to control your subconscious mind. Consider trying to give up an addiction that may have been causing you a huge amount of trouble, like smoking, drinking, and so on. In fact, giving up smoking has been using the hypnotherapy methods a lot these days. Simple meditation and self hypnosis can be the first step towards enhancing the power of your mind. The rest comes with time, discipline and practice. The more you make your mind work, the more power it will gain. Most of us Hypnosis , Smoking , Stop Leave a Comment more... 1 Sep/11 Hypnosis to Stop Smoking Works by Darren under Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Some facts about nicotine addiction Research shows that nearly 90% of smokers are physically and psychologically addicted to nicotine. This basically means that these same people will continue to have nicotine cravings even after the substance has been completely removed from their system. In other words, ex-smokers have to battle nicotine cravings long after their physical dependency on nicotine ends. These sporadic, but sometimes intense nicotine cravings are the main reason why so many ex-smokers end up smoking again after being off cigarettes for years. One slip is all it takes to get addicted to cigarettes again. So, how can one give up smoking forever? The only way you are going to achieve everlasting freedom from nicotine is when you stop having nicotine cravings. After all, why would an ex-smoker smoke if he/she has no cravings for nicotine? However, stopping nicotine cravings on your own is literally impossible. The good news is that you can use tools such as hypnosis to end your psychological dependency on nicotine. Hypnosis to stop smoking – how does it work? First, let’s understand a few established facts about our subconscious mind: 1. Our subconscious mind lacks the ability to differentiate between ‘reality’ and ‘imagination’ 2. Our subconscious mind absorbs whatever we feed it As you can feed your subconscious mind with anything, and it, in turn, will consider that information to be real, all you need to do to stop nicotine cravings is to repeatedly tell your subconscious mind that you don’t want to smoke. Over time, your subconscious mind with completely assimilate this ‘imagined reality’. When this happens, your nicotine cravings will automatically stop. Selecting the right hypnosis to stop smoking programs Hypnosis can help you fight nicotine addiction. However, it is important that you join an effective hypnosis to stop program. Here are a few tips that will help you locate an effective hypnosis to stop smoking program: * Select a professional hypnosis practitioner who has rich experience in this field * Select a hypnosis program that is specifically created for smoking cessation * Read the testimonials of those who have used the program before * Select a hypnosis to stop smoking program that offers a money-back guarantee Join a reliable hypnosis to stop smoking program to gain complete freedom from cigarettes. Steve G. Jones is a board certified Clinical Hypnotherapist. He is a member of the National Guild of Hypnotists, American Board of Hypnotherapy, president of the American Alliance of Hypnotists, on the board of directors of the Los Angeles chapter of the American Lung Association, and director of the California state registered Steve G. Jones School of Hypnotherapy. In order to keep up with the very latest in research, he regularly attends training conferences. Learn more by visiting: http://www.hypnotranquility.com/ Hypnosis , Smoking , Stop , Works Leave a Comment more... 20 Apr/11 Stop Emotional Eating by Hypnosis Treatment by Darren under Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Sometimes it is seen that the children having the kid fight with their friends switch over to chocolates and ice creams to forget and to get over from that time of distress. It is basically the way absorbed by many to get a relief from the troubles and problems. But it results to the bad health and fitness. There are some ways to know how to stop emotional eating Call up any friend or family member when you find yourself getting bored or feeling lonely. If you are stressed out and having a urge to eat, just go with some physical exercises, yoga lessons or listen to some good music until you cross over the urge to eat. Sometimes sleepless nights give birth to emotional eating. So, redesign the sleeping schedule to avoid the day fatigue that is sure to occur with the continuation of emotional eating. Note down or take the record of the emotion that you come across while eating and also comment on the feeling you have after eating. It has to be taken into account whether the food is consumed due to hunger or just to be happy. We need to take few minutes before jumping into the foods, this will help us to stop emotional eating Thus if you go through the above mentioned ways, we will know how to stop emotional eating to some extent. There are also many of the counselors, who are able to provide you the one on one diet counseling lessons. The one on one diet counseling will provide you with the individual attention and care, you will get highly benefitted and this will help you to gain control over your food and your body weight. Hypnotherapy center are also developing. It mainly helps us to shade off the extra weight we have with the help of the regular exercises and diets. Hypnosis is actually a state of total unconsciousness, the Hypnotherapy center help us to go through this state. The patients are supposed to repeat some words and get the full access over the body. The concentration and the visualization of certain mental image are the key of this therapy. After the successful completion of the therapy, one can go through the self-hypnosis therapy in order to shade off the extras. A study shows that positive and relatively moderate results can be generated with the use of this hypnosis therapy. Eating , Emotional , Hypnosis , Stop , Treatment Leave a Comment more... « Older Entries Categories Get hypnotised Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Hypnosis confidence Hypnosis nail biting Hypnosis sport Hypnotise me Hypnotise your self Ibs hypnosis Public speaking hypnosis Blogroll Cure IBS with hypnosis Hypnosis downloads Hypnosis weight loss Presuader hypnosis Raw hypnosis Self Hypnosis Stop Panic Attacks Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Recommended Products Other Interest Recent Posts The Answers to Your Concerns About Conversational Hypnosis Day to Day Activities Where You Can Use Conversational Hypnosis How to Sell More by Using Conversational Hypnosis Covert or Conversational Hypnosis Explained Quit Smoking Hypnosis to Stop Smoking Archives November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 Tags Biting Confidence Conversational Cures Fear Hipnotise yourself Hypnosis Hypnotherapy Hypnotise Hypnotised Hypnotise me Loss Mind Nail Public Quit Self SelfHypnosis Smoking Solution Speaking Stop Weight Work Copyright © 1996-2010 Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy. All rights reserved. iDream theme by Templates Next | Powered by W