<http://www.hqbk.com/blog/?p=505>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Treatment for Spinal Disc Herniation | HQBK Blog Home | About HealthQuest | Professional Staff | Specials/Events | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Blogs Query Oct 11 Treatment for Spinal Disc Herniation This entry is filed under Disc Pain Treatment . Treatment for spinal disc herniation does not involve surgery all the time. Chiropractic care and physical therapy along with anti-inflammatory medication can offer effective pain treatment. Disc pain treatment also depends on the precise condition of the individual. Spinal disc herniation is one of the causes of sciatica pain and disc pain. Spinal disc herniation may be referred to as lumbar herniated disc, bulging disc, slipped disc or pinched nerve. Spinal Disc Herniation Spinal disc herniation is a case where the inner core — called nucleus pulposus – of a disc bulges or herniates out from its location into the spinal canal. This process is called herniation. The leaked liquid core compresses or irritates a nerve root in the spinal column causing pain and discomfort. Sciatica pain commonly occurs due to this condition. Even if there is no direct nerve root compression from the liquid, the leaked out fluidic core could cause inflammation of the surrounding tissue. This causes pain too, and the inflamed tissue could further compress the nerve root. What Causes Disc Herniation? Disc herniation can occur when the individual bends to a side or at an awkward angle. Wear and tear resulting from sedentary jobs or sudden injury caused by lifting objects while bending sideways at the waist could cause herniation. Sometimes, long term wear and tear contributes to sudden herniation while falling or bending. Wear and tear can be indicated by pain or chronic fatigue at the back. Bending awkwardly or a sedentary lifestyle causes the internal pressure to be irregularly applied on the discs, thus increasing chances of the liquid core bulging out from one of the discs. Non-surgical Methods for Disc Pain Treatment Disc pain treatment primarily consists of anti-inflammatory medication or NSAIDs (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs) along with chiropractic care, massages, physical therapy and anti-depressants. This is the basis of pain management as most cases of disc herniation heal without surgery within six weeks. Epidural steroid injections may also be prescribed. Chiropractic Care Chiropractic manipulation offered by specialized healthcare centers is quite a valuable tool for healing many musculoskeletal disorders including spinal disc herniation and sciatica treatment. Chiropractic care reduces inflammation and strengthens the body’s own resistance, making this a natural, safe and truly effective procedure. Both chiropractic disc pain treatment and spinal decompression require expert handling, which the healthcare professionals at multidisciplinary healthcare centers offer. Benefits of Spinal Decompression for Disc Pain Management Spinal decompression is an advanced and effective pain treatment method specifically developed for spinal disc herniation. This FDA-approved treatment uses a spinal decompression machine that creates a negative pressure between the spinal discs. The vacuum increases the height between the discs and attempts to treat the bulged out liquid into the disc. This ensures faster healing and improved blood supply. Tweet Posted by admin Tags: chiropractic care , disc pain treatment , pain management , pain treatment , physical therapy , sciatica pain , spinal decompression Comments are closed. Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 August 2008 Recent Posts Neck Pain Treatment Physical Therapy Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Does Physical Therapy Exercises Help Relieve Lower Back Pain? How Rehabilitation Services Can Reduce Disability When Do People Need Physical Therapy? Subscribe RSS Feed Atom Feed Add to Google My Yahoo Twitter Facebook Patient Forms | Medical Consultation | Physical Examination | Chiropractic Manipulation | Rehabilitation Services | Physical Therapy | Neurology | MRI and Diagnostics | Spinal Decompression | Smoking Cessation | Orthopedics | Pain Management | Weight Loss Program | Slip Fall Prevention | Professional Staff | Site Map Website design by Managed Outsource Solutions Medical Consultation Physical Examination Chiropractic Manipulation Rehabilitation Services Physical Therapy MRI & Diagnostics Spinal Decompression Smoking Cessation Orthopedics Pain Managemen