
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 17:30:31 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Does Acupuncture Work? Home Natural Health Spas Yoga Fitness Nutrition Practitioners Mental Health Meditation Self Improvement Spiritual Wellbeing Buddhism Retreats Advertisement Info NY Events Calendar New Coupons/Specials Classes & Courses Online Videos NY Wellness Blog User Forums Friends Network Natural Health News Add Listings Add Content NY Tees & Gifts Free Date NY Contact New York Wellness Calendar View NY Events Add Your Event Does Acupuncture Work? By Steve Dolan Chinese medicine is responsible for a number of  natural therapies, and acupuncture is probably the best known of them.  Acupuncture works on the theory that your body contains  energy centers at specific, strategic points. These energy centers are  then linked to a particular part of the body. If you have a sore knee,  for example, then the acupuncturist would locate the energy center  links to that knee. This could well be located in a completely  different part of the body. That's the point where very thin needles  are then inserted to stimulate the energy center. The result? The pain  in your knee is reduced or removed entirely, by accessing the central  nervous system through the acupuncture point. Acupuncture is used  to treat many conditions, but pain relief is the most common. It's an  odd concept - inserting needles into your body to reduce pain! But  plenty of people find acupuncture. It's believed that as well as  stimulating energy centers, acupuncture stimulates the production of  endorphins, known as "feel good" chemicals, which also helps reduce the  pain. Other research has shown that acupuncture can assist the  immune system by stimulating the production of white blood cells. It's  also been shown that Alpha, Beta and Gamma Globulins increase after  acupuncture therapy, and these assist in fighting infection and  producing immune antibodies. Recently, acupuncture has been used to  assist people recovering from alcohol and drug addiction. Acupuncture  focuses on reducing cravings and withdrawal symptoms, tension, and  inducing a feeling of relaxation. Sports people at the highest  level have turned to acupuncture therapy to help improve both their  training and performance. Muscle tension inhibits performance, and  acupuncture releases tension in both muscles and the surround tissue,  as well improving the efficiency of the nervous, circulatory and  lymphatic systems. Acupuncture can also be used to speed up recovery  rates from injury and manage pain. Allergies also respond well to  acupuncture therapy. Harmless substances can cause the immune system to  overreact, leading to an allergic reaction. Many allergies are  triggered by common environmental factors such as dust, pollen and  chemicals. Many people also suffer from food allergies, which can be  triggered by wheat, milk and shellfish, amongst other things. Allergies  are uncomfortable - stuffy nose, watery eyes and sneezing. In some  sufferers, allergy reaction can result in extreme symptoms such as  kidney problems, joint pain and depression. Detoxifying the body and  strengthening the immune system with acupuncture helps reduce or  eliminate allergic reactions. Many people turn to acupuncture  therapy for more serious issues, such as bronchitis, asthma,  hypertension and ulcers. Western medicine struggles to understand how  acupuncture manages to be so effective, but the results speak for  themselves. Some suggest that believing acupuncture will work is the  reason it does, but that hasn't been proven. Sometimes, for more  chronic conditions, massage and herbal remedies are used together with  acupuncture therapy. Other health issues that often respond well  to acupuncture include PMS, chronic fatigue syndrome, stress, menopause  and menstruation problems. If you're interested in trying acupuncture  therapy, find yourself a reputable local practitioner, then ring and  have a chat with them about your health problems. This will give them  the opportunity to say whether or not they think acupuncture can help  you. The only way to know for sure is to give it a go. Steve Dolan is an active athlete who uses acupuncture therapy to treat various conditions. Click Acupuncture Therapy to find out how it can help you too. >> Back to Main Page Receive Posts By Email Digg this Links | Add Link | Testimonials | Site Map | Contact Us | Archives | Disclaimer |   Cop