
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:17:38 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Last-Modified: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:17:38 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

2011 Pneumonia | Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration Skip to main content Search this site: Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration Vermont.gov Home Banking Insurance Securities Health Care Captives Home 2011 Pneumonia Pneumonia is a serious lung infection that causes difficulty breathing, fever, cough and fatigue. The recommended care rates at the link below show how often hospitals provided the recommended care for pneumonia patients. The links below provide information on the rates of patients receiving recommended pneumonia care, hospital readmission rates for pneumonia patients, and mortality rates for patients hospitalized for pneumonia. Note: For all of these rates, be careful when drawing conclusions; small numbers of patients may reduce the reliability of the results. Recommended Care Rates Readmission Rates Mortality Rates Understanding Recommended Care Rates: The Recommended Care Rates listed show how often hospitals provided the recommended care for pneumonia patients. What do the fractions mean? The denominator (the bottom number) represents all those patients who were medically eligible to receive the recommended care.  The numerator (the top number) represents those patients who actually received the care. For example: Antibiotics within 6 hours: 80%; 8/10. This means that 10 patients were medically eligible to receive antibiotics within 6 hours, and 8 patients actually received them. “0/0” means that no patients were medically eligible to receive that particular treatment. Acknowledgement: The table format, measure descriptions and definition of “Achievable Benchmark” for the Recommended Care Rates were developed by the New Hampshire-based Foundation for Healthy Communities.  The Northeast Healthcare Quality Foundation provided the data analysis.  The Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration expresses its gratitude to both organizations. To view prior year reports, please click here Hospitals & Health Care Practitioners HCA Quick Links File a Complaint Hospital Report Cards Health Plan Report Card Licensing & Registration Forms Health Insurers Regulations, Orders, Bulletins & Market Conduct Research, Data & Reports Hospitals & Practitioners Hospitals & Practitioners Home Certificate of Need Health Care Expenditure Analysis Reports Health Resource Allocation Plan Hospital Budget Review Process Hospital Finance Hospital Report Cards Uniform Provider Credentialing Site Map About Us Contact Us Policies Accessibility Privacy Vermont.gov A Vermo