
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 21:43:31 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.11 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.11 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Arthritis | Learn about arthritis and how it can affect you Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Arthritis Pain Relief Arthritis Symptoms Arthritis Treatment Arthritis Relief Osteoarthritis Arthritis Pain Arthritis Medication Arthritis Exercise Arthritis Help Arthritis Product Arthritis Advice Links Arthritis Advice Sitemap Site Info Recommended Sites: Self Improvement Personal Development Link Directory Subscribe to this site: 7 Vitamins Every Arthritis Sufferer Should Know About A deficiency of vitamins can lead to a variety of health problems, including some forms of arthritis.   These organic nutrients are normal sourced through our intake of fresh fruit and vegetables. Due to the following factors, it is not always possible to get our recommended daily allowance (RDA) of vitamins:  1) Poor soil quality 2) Modern processing methods 3) Popularity of Junk foods As an alternative... Continue Reading Arthritis Pain May Involve an Allergic Reaction to Food In at least some rheumatoid arthritis sufferers, the pain they feel may be an allergic reaction to a common group of food plants known as nightshades. Potatoes, tomatoes, peppers, zucchini, and eggplants are members of the same group of plants that has been implicated in arthritis pain.   Luckily, this problem is an easy one to identify; the sufferer simply needs to try an elimination diet for a few... Continue Reading Learn about arthritis and how it can affect you Dr Leong Y.H 'Rheumatism' is a traditional and non-specific term used in the
East and West to refer to a variety of conditions affecting the
bones, joints, skin, heart, kidneys, lungs. This term is rapidly
falling out of favour in the West today because modern medical
science has discovered that most of these conditions have
different aetiologies (causes) requiring very different
treatments. You can say that it's a word mainly used in Chinese (&
traditional) societies; it's also used by a minority of
Westerners into homeopathic and alternative medicine. The only
common characteristics among these conditions are: 1) they cause
long-term chronic pain, and 2) they are very difficult to treat. 'Arthritis' is a broad term refers to inflammation of the
joints, but doesn't say anything about the cause. Includes
conditions like osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic
arthritis, infective arthritis, gouty arthritis, etc. Generally, I'd divide arthritis into 2 big groups: 1) Osteoarthritis (OA) This is primarily a 'wear and tear'
condition affecting older people. Arises from overuse (e.g.
marathon runners), previous injuries (football players),
overweight, heredity. A lot of older Asian women get OA of the knees while the
Americans and Europeans get it in the hips. The pain is more
mechanical than inflammatory. So you get pain in the later part
of the day after a lot of walking and climbing stairs. Because it's mainly a mechanical problem, treatment with
painkillers is only a temporary solution. Long-term lifestyle
changes are more important - reduce weight, mobility and
muscle-strengthening exercises, reduce all kinds of
weight-bearing activities (walking, jumping, running, carrying
heavy objects). In severe cases, surgery may be warranted. 2) Inflammatory ('Rheumatic') Arthritis This group comprises
the various types of arthritis which are mainly inflammatory ,
not mechanical, in nature. They usually result from an
auto-immune condition, which causes the body's immune system to
go haywire and attack the joints and other parts of the body.
E.g. rheumatoid arthritis (RA), SLE (skin, kidneys, joints,
brain), psoriasis (skin, joints), ankylosing spondylitis (back,
heart), gout (joints, skin, kidneys), rheumatic heart
disease/fever (joints, heart, skin). All these conditions
require different forms of treatment. I'll talk a bit about RA, the commonest condition in this group.
Unlike OA, RA can occur at any age and is usually hereditary (we
now have a test for the RA factor in the blood). Pain is usually
in the early morning, worse when it's cold, and gets better with
activity and use. That means an RA sufferer suffers from morning
stiffness and pain, but gets better in the afternoon when it's
warmer and when he has moved around a bit. Treatment, unlike OA, is mainly through drugs - painkillers,
anti-inflammatory drugs like steroids, cytotoxic drugs like
sulfasalazine and MTX. In Asia, treatment is mainly through accupuncture, medicated
plasters and ointments. With the vast arsenals of drugs and
non-drugs alternative treatments available today, RA can be
controlled very well and the sufferer can actually lead a very
active life. Many OA sufferers on the other hand may eventually
require surgery since we don't have very effective drugs for OA. About the author: Dr Leong is a Western trained doctor with a keen interest in
Chinese medical treatment. He contributes articles to http://www.quick-pain-relief.com. This article may be
republished provided acknowledgement is made of the author and
the original website. Three tips for arthritis relief - osteoarthritis Massage – not the areas that hurt   Some experts think that arthritic conditions or pain conditions in general aggravate and flare up trigger points, and that one can get additional relief to arthritis symptoms trough self massage.   The idea is not to massage the area where it hurts, but to find pressure tender areas in your muscles near the actual pain area, and massage them instead.   For example, if your osteoarthritis pain is in your knee joint, then you would find and massage tender points from your quadriceps muscles.   Sound crazy, but it works…   Exercises - lose it or use it   Not moving... Continue Reading The Supplement You Really need for aching joints No illness on earth is more likely to cause disability than osteoarthritis (OA). This well-known degenerative disease affects 140 million people in the United States alone, and 80 percent of people over the age of 50. In fact, if you are even 30 years old, there's a 50-50 chance that osteoarthritis affects you.   Most people take care of their own arthritis treatment. The drug of choice is usually over-the-counter non-steroidal anti- inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin and ibuprofen.   The problem with NSAIDs is that they cause acid stomach, pept