
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 06:34:45 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Tract Infection Start Your Search Here Browsemedic - Online HealthCare Information Urinary Tract Infection Urinary Tract Infection The urinary tract is the body's filtering system for removal of liquid wastes. Women are especially susceptible to bacteria, which may invade the urinary tract and multiply resulting in infection. The female urethra is shorter and this makes it easier for bacteria to travel. Pregnant women and diabetic women are more likely to develop UTI. Stones or tumor in the urinary tract can cause urinary tract. Escherichia coli (E. coli) is the most common cause of UTI. When the infection is limited to the urethra, it is called urethritis . A bladder infection is called cystitis . If the UTI is not treated in time, the infection will travel up and infect the kidneys. Other causes of UTI are bladder outlet obstructions or suppressed immune system. Urination is usually accompanied by sharp pain or burning sensation during urination. Bladder infection can result in symptoms such as back pain and fever. Nausea and vomiting, foul smelling and cloudy urine, blood in the urine and urinary incontinence are signs of urinary tract infection. Painful sexual intercourse and pressure in the lower pelvis are often indicative of UTI. Urine culture test is done to determine the type of bacteria causing the urinary tract infection. UTI treatment involves a course of antibiotics (amoxicillin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or fluoroquinolones) that depends on the type of bacteria. Drinking plenty of water and fluids will aid in flushing away the bacteria from the urinary system. Some doctors recommend Vitamin C as it will make the urine acidic and thereby hostile to bacteria. The most important tip to prevent urinary tract infections, bladder infections, and kidney infections is to practice good personal hygiene. Wash the skin around and between the rectum and vagina daily. Always wipe from front to back after a bowel movement or urination. Do not routinely resist the urge to urinate. Disclaimer: Our pages are intended to provide information on various health conditions, diagnostic tests and health care specialists so as to aid readers who wish to gather comprehensive data from one source. This is provided through the use of  Natural Language Navigation Engine to supplant medical information and is NOT intended to replace professional advice. Consult your medical professional for further advice. BrowseMedic Website or its owners will not be liable for any, direct or indirect, consequential or incidental damages or loss arising out of the use of this information. This information is neither an offer to sell nor solicitation to buy any of the products mentioned herein. 