Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Harland Hypnotherapy, Pat Harland Clinical Hypnotherapist, Psychoanalyst treatments for all anxiety related problems. I am based in Hereford and serving the surrounding areas of Hay on Wye, Leominster, Ludlow, Malvern, Ross on Wye, Monmouth, Abergavenny, Brecon, Forest of Dean How does our unique therapy work? All about hypnosis What symptoms and conditions can we help? Common questions about hypnotherapy Videos and testimonials Hypnotherapy training Seminars and workshops IAPH Introduction Video News and history Memberships and ethics Council and fellows IAPH in the media Articles and video clips Research Project Members Area Students Area Pat Harland MIAPH - Hereford, Herefordshire Welcome from Pat I am a Hereford  based practitioner of Pure Hypnoanalysis and Suggestion Therapy  and I provide a fast, effective dynamic and  innovative treatment suitable for most of life’s problems and hurdles.  My clients come to me with a variety of  problems (panic attacks, weight loss, fears, phobias etc) they wish to overcome  or goals (stopping smoking, passing driving tests or examinations, pregnancy  relaxation and childbirth etc) which they wish to achieve. Many clients come to me because someone else  they know and trust has recommended them to me.   My therapy room provides the ideal setting for the building of trust and  rapport and has an air of relaxation and tranquillity about it so I find that  my clients are able to relax with me from the outset – not to mention my lovely  squashy leather reclining treatment chair.   In short the basis of my work is allowing my clients to change their  lives for the better. The  treatments I use which are Pure Hypnoanalysis (getting to the root cause of  anxiety related symptoms and behaviours) and Suggestion therapy (for short term  goal achievement) are both very effective and are tailor made to the individual  person. Once you  have been in to see me for an initial chat, which is free of charge, then I can  make a recommendation for the best way forward to suit you.  If you like what you hear and decide that you  wish to go ahead with the suggested treatment then we can organise the  necessary appointments for you. Stop  smoking in one hour! Seems too easy doesn’t it?   With my stopping smoking session it is just that – EASY!!  It is THE most effective method of stopping  smoking that you will ever come across.  Become  a non smoker my way and avoid the nasty cravings and putting on weight  afterwards.  All you have to do is book  an appointment with me and turn up on the day.   If you have been thinking about quitting smoking, giving up smoking,  becoming a non smoker then please do not hesitate to contact me.  After the session you will wonder why you  didn’t choose hypnotherapy as a method of quitting years ago. Contact Details Name: Pat Harland Telephone: 01981 550  907 Mobile: 07984 177 527 E-Mail: Click Here to Contact Pat Website: Click to Visit Website Specialities 'Pure' Hypnoanalysis Suggestion Therapy Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Hypnosis for Pain Control Hypnosis for Relaxed Childbirth Hypnosis for Sports Performance Symptoms Treated Stopping Smoking Depression Anxiety Addictions Compulsions Obsessions Insomnia Confidence       Issues Impotence Premature       Ejaculation Frigidity Sexual       Problems Anorexia       / Bulimia Food       related issues Stuttering /       Stammering Anger Shy Bladder Social Anxiety       (fear of being on the spot) Emetophobia (fear of vomiting) Irritable Bowel Syndrome  (IBS) Migraine       Headaches Bedwetting Inhibitions Asthma Panic       Attacks Fears Phobias       of any sort Grief Blushing Self       Harming Nightmares Fear       of Intimacy Teeth       Grinding (Bruxism) Public       Performance Anxiety Fear       of Failure Bed       Wetting in Children Children’s       anxiety related problems Chronic       Fatigue Stress Guilt Poor       Self Image Vaginismus Training Details IAPH Diploma in Pure Hypnoanalysis Advanced Diploma Held Accredited Membership IAPH Training Analyst Additional Training Courses Attended: Understanding  Sexual Offenders and Treating Survivors of Sexual Abuse - twice (Rob Kelly) Children’s  Blowaway Technique/Successfully treating children’s problems –twice (Heather  King) Stress  Management (David Reeves and Bob Caton) Pregnancy  Relaxation and Childbirthing (David Kato) Secrets of  Successful Pure Hypnoanalysis -  three  times (Rob Kelly) Advanced  Hypnoanalytical techniques and Free Association (Rob Kelly Hypnotherapy  Masterclass  - twice (Rob Kelly) Training  Analysis (Rob Kelly) Personal  and Professional support (supervision) (Juliette) Sales and  Marketing for Therapists (Sue Wilson and Gary Foster) Easy  Smoking Cessation - twice(Rob Kelly) Hypnosis  for Sports Performance (Peter Moule) How to  build a busy Hypnotherapy Practice (Richard Parsons) Practice Locations: 2 Bridge  Street Hereford HR4 9DF Click here for a map and directions to the practice Practices Convenient For: Hereford Malvern Ross on Wye Leominster Ludlow Monmouth Abergavenny Brecon Forest  of Dean Hay on Wye Practice Details Waiting Room Available - Disabled Access - Credit / Debit Cards Accepted - Toilet Facilities Travel Details Onsite Car Parking - Car Parking Nearby Nearest Train Station - Click here for a map and directions to the practice Find a hypnotherapist in the UK : Hypnotherapy 
                in the UK : Hypnotherapy 
                  training school Qualified 
                Hypnotherapists : Hypnotherapists 
                  abroad : Hypnoanalysis : History of 
                    Hypnosis Hypnotherapy organisations 
        in the UK : Hypnotherapy 
          Associations in the UK Hypnosis Training : Hypnotherpy Training : Hypnotherapy Courses Successful Hypnotherapy Website Maintenance by Paul Douglass MIAPH Copyright © 1984-2011 International Association 
                of Pure Hypnoanalysts (IAPH). All rights reserve