Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Cochrane Collaboration - The Skeptic's Dictionary - Skepdic.com © Copyright 1994-2012 Robert T. Carroll Home What's New? Newsletter Feedback FAQ & Interviews Site Map Topical Indexes Alternative Medicine Critical Thinking Cryptozoology ETs & UFOs Frauds, Hoaxes, Conspiracies Junk Science Logic & Perception New Age Paranormal Science & Philosophy Supernatural Who Am I? Other Writings Unnatural Acts blog Skeptimedia Mass Media Funk Mass Media Bunk What's the Harm? Newsletter Archives Internet Bunk Too good to be true Critical Thinking Skeptical Essays Book Reviews Suburban Myths In Memoriam Other Resources Skeptic's Dictionary for Kids Recommended Books For Teachers A Skeptic's Halloween Skeptical Links Get involved Future Topics? Permission to print Site Statistics Advertising Rates The Black Swan Remember Bertrand Russell's 
                chicken. Predictably Irrational Economics is not useless! Irrationality Are we doomed to act against 
                our own self-interest? The Power of Critical Thinking Who doesn't need a little more power? From Abracadabra to Zombies | View All a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z Cochrane Collaboration The Cochrane 
                Collaboration is a large group of academics who publish 
                systematic reviews of medical research papers regarding the effectiveness of various 
                health care interventions, conventional and unconventional. The Cochrane Collaboration was 
                founded in 1993 under the leadership of Iain Chalmers . 
                The reviews are published in the Cochrane Library . Experts from around the world examine 
                clinical trials and observational studies in an effort to 
                determine what treatments work and what treatments are 
                ineffective or work no better than placebos . 
                According to Wikipedia , in October 2010 the Cochrane 
                Collaboration had "over 27,000 volunteers in more than 90 
                countries." Ernst and Singh ( 2008) write that 
                the Cochrane Collaboration has twelve 
                centers around the world and over 10,000 "health expert 
                volunteers from over 90 countries." As Ernst and Singh 
                note: it would be "impractical and nonsensical" for doctors to 
                read the hundreds of studies that come out each year supporting 
                or undermining medical treatments. The task is daunting. Studies 
                often contradict one another. Some are very well designed and 
                meticulously conducted. Others are small and sloppy. Many are a 
                mixed bag of good and bad design and execution. The Cochrane 
                Collaboration is named after Archie Cochrane (1909-1988) who 
                lamented that the medical profession to which he belonged had 
                not "organized  a critical summary, by specialty or 
                subspecialty, adapted periodically, of all relevant randomized 
                controlled trials." Thus was born the idea of a systematic 
                review . Studies on a particular treatment would be given 
                different values depending on how they were designed, how many 
                subjects were in them, etc. A systematic review does not assume 
                all studies are of equal value. The goal is to determine in an 
                unbiased way what the best evidence is for any particular 
                treatment. Ernst and Singh 
                write: As well as providing 
                judgments on the effectiveness of pharmaceutical drugs, these 
                systematic reviews evaluate all sorts of other treatments, as 
                well as preventative measures, the value of screening, and the 
                impact of lifestyle and diet on health. Fortunately, many 
                Cochrane Collaboration reports are available online. So, if a medical 
                practitioner or a potential patient wants to know, for example, what is the 
                best evidence for using acupuncture to treat migraines, she can 
                consult the Cochrane Collaboration to find an unbiased, 
                independent, rigorous, and 
                relatively up-to-date report. Just google "Cochrane Collaboration 
                acupuncture migraine" and you will find what you're looking for. Unfortunately, the 
                practitioner or potential patient may still have to do some 
                thinking even after consulting the Cochrane Collaboration. If 
                you followed the link on acupuncture for migraine you found: Collectively, the studies suggest 
                that migraine patients benefit from acupuncture, although the 
                correct placement of needles seems to be less relevant than is 
                usually thought by acupuncturists. The traditional 
                practitioner should be disconcerted by the fact that it doesn't 
                seem to matter where the needles are placed to get the result. 
                This conflicts with traditional teaching that the needles must 
                be placed in specific points along alleged meridians that carry chi. This fact implies that there is 
                something wrong with the traditional basis for acupuncture. On 
                the other hand, the fact that migraine patients benefit from 
                both true and sham acupuncture indicates that sticking needles 
                into migraine patients is an effective treatment. However, if 
                one is unfamiliar with the fact that there have been recent 
                developments in the testing of acupuncture that involve a sham 
                procedure that does not involve sticking a needle into the 
                patient at all (a retractable needle is used), one might jump to the conclusion that 
                sticking patients with needles triggers some sort of mechanism 
                that blocks migraine pain. One might, for example, infer that 
                the effectiveness of acupuncture can be explained by the gateway 
                theory of pain . But there are problems with that 
                interpretation. The latest results contradict some 
                of the more positive conclusions from Cochrane reviews. If these 
                results are repeated in other trials, then it is probable that 
                the Cochrane Collaboration will revise its conclusions and make 
                them less positive. (Ernst and Singh 2008) One must also 
                consider that a number of studies have found no significant 
                difference in effectiveness  between true and sham 
                acupuncture. Many of these studies do not involve measuring 
                pain, so if there is a mechanism that explains the effectiveness 
                of acupuncture for, say, nausea, it must be something other than 
                the gateway theory mechanism. Many critics of alternative 
                therapies are betting that the effectiveness of acupuncture can 
                be explained by placebo effects; they refer to acupuncture (and 
                other alternative therapies such as homeopathy ) as placebo 
                medicine . What these critics mean is that the effectiveness 
                of acupuncture is not due to sticking needles into the skin, but 
                is due rather to a host of other factors, such as the 
                expectations of the patients, the conditioning of the medical 
                ritual, the relaxation effect that comes from being treated by a 
                professional in a professional setting, the Hawthorne effect , 
                etc. Also affecting the outcome of acupuncture trials are such 
                things as spontaneous improvement, fluctuation of symptoms, regression to the mean, and a desire to please the healer. Further 
                compounding the problem of establishing the effectiveness of 
                acupuncture above a placebo effect is the seeming impossibility 
                of devising a double-blind test. The retractable needle may 
                solve the problem of blinding the patient to the procedure, but 
                how does one blind the acupuncturist? This 
                might seem unimportant, but there is a risk that the 
                practitioner will unconsciously communicate to the patient that 
                a placebo is being administered, perhaps because of the 
                practitioner's body language or tone of voice. It could be that 
                the marginally positive results for acupuncture for pain relief 
                and nausea apparent in some trials are merely due to the slight 
                remaining biases that occur with a single blinding. (Ernst and Singh 2008) While the Cochrane 
                Collaboration is an excellent place to begin one's research on a 
                health-care treatment, it is not an infallible guide and should 
                be considered within the context of all the available evidence 
                regarding a treatment. See also control study and meta-analysis . further reading Ernst, Edzard and Simon Singh. 2008. Trick or Treatment: The 
                Undeniable Facts about Alternative Medicine . W. W. Norton. website The Cochrane 
                Collaboration - Top 50 Reviews (On 26 October 2010, the 
                number one abstract accessed was on drinking green tea to 
                prevent cancer. The bottom line: "There is insufficient and 
                conflicting evidence to give any firm recommendations regarding 
                green tea consumption for cancer prevention." The Cochrane Library - Wikipedia Last
      updated 12/09/10 Web Skepdic.com How to Think About Weird Things How is halfway to what. Don't Believe Everything You Think Why not? The 
                Skeptic's Shop No shirts, no mugs, no tinfoil 
                hats. Ordering 
                    information Other Languages Dutch French German Greek Hungarian Icelandic Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese Russian Slovak Spanish Swedish Print versions available in Dutch , Estonian , Russian , Japanese , Korean , and 
                  (soon) Spanish . The 
                Skeptic's Bookstore clustering illus