Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lower Back Pain Treatment - Acute Pain Lower Back Pain Treatment - Acute Pain What is the best lower back pain treatment for acute pain? With the right lower back pain treatment the  symptoms of back pain often settle quickly. When you first get acute lower back pain it can be very  frightening. Advertisement - Article Continues Below You may fear that you have seriously damaged your lower back and  worry that the pain will  never go away and you are going to be stuck like this forever.   Remember, this is rarely the case, so try not to worry. My e-book The Back Pain Action Guide contains lots of helpful information on first aid for back pain. Days 1-5 Do Check with your doctor if you have severe leg pain or pins  and needles and numbness or if you have any of the red flag symptoms listed  here Remember that 95% of low back pain sufferers have simple lower back pain and nothing seriously wrong with their backs. Take good pain relief to control your symptoms. Your doctor may  also prescribe a muscle relaxant for short term use if you have muscle spasm  (tightness in the lower back muscles). Try and keep as active as possible, avoid prolonged periods  of rest. I would suggest you alternate gentle activity with short periods of  rest in a comfortable position. Try and get back to all your usual activities as soon as  possible, including work. Try not to worry that you have seriously damaged yourself. Pain is not a reliable indicator of tissue damage and it is known that avoiding  activity through fear of further harm will prolong the problem and lead to  poorer outcomes. Don't Take bed rest! The research findings(1) are very clear about  this it will make you worse not better. Years ago bed rest was the lower back pain treatment of choice, it was  routine to be told to have a weeks bed rest and lie flat on your back if you  had back pain. Many people (and some  doctors sadly) still think this is the way to manage this problem. But modern  day management of back pain does not include bed rest. When you lie in bed your muscles become weak  and deconditioned, your joints stiffen up, your mood becomes low as you are not  having much social contact and your mind can go into overdrive worrying about  what you have done to yourself. Its best to avoid bed rest if you can. Advertisement - Article Continues Below Day 5 onwards Increase your activity levels, try and get back to normal  day to day life and work. Do a few back stretching exercises to get your spine moving  again and practice some back strengthening exercises to help strengthen the  muscles that support your back. Try and improve your physical fitness levels , go walking or swimming,  cycling may help too. Before starting any exercise programme or other lower back pain treatment  check with your doctor or physiotherapist to ensure it is suitable for your individual needs. Try not to worry if your back pain returns, its fairly  common for this to happen and it doesn't mean you have any permanent damage in  your back. The symptoms should resolve again with time and keeping active. What normally happens? So it's fairly likely that you will get back pain again - don't worry about this though - back pain does not necessarily need to cause you major problems Pain and disability usually decrease rapidly within 1 month,  and continue to decrease, although slowly, until about 12 months. About 75% of people who  are off work because of lower back pain are able to return to work within 4  weeks. The risk of  recurrence is about 25% within 3 months and about 75% within 12 months. If you have had back pain for more than 5 days read Treatment for chronic back pain Lower Back Pain Treatment -an  overview of the differences between chronic and acute pain Lower Back Pain Toolkit Home Page References (1) Prodigy guidelines 23-may-11 Home Free e-Course Manage Back Pain Book Back Pain Action Guide Anatomy The Human Spine Back Pain Causes Causes - Overview Non-Specific Back Pain Sciatica Piriformis Syndrome Pregnancy X-Ray and MRI  Scans Lumbar MRI and XRay Symptoms Where it hurts Numbness and Tingling How it Feels Active Treatments Sciatica Exercises Posture Exercise Hub Stretch Exercises Core Stability Fitness Hub Fitness Ideas Back Pain Products Back Support Cushions Best  Mattress Back Pain Treatment Types of Treatment All About Pain Understand Pain Chronic v Acute Pain News and Research Guidelines News/Research Back Pain Blog Essentials Disclaimer Your Questions Site Map Contact About Me Search Subscribe To This Site Custom Search Share | Don't Let Back Pain
      Stop 
    You Living a Normal Life The Back Pain Action Guide is a six step programme that shows you how   you can keep living a normal life and stop worrying about your back   pain. Click on the image   of the book to learn more about what's inside. Custom Search Share | Don't Let Back Pain
      Stop 
    You Living a Normal Life The Back Pain Action Guide is a six step programme that shows you how   you can keep living a normal life and stop worrying about your back   pain. Click on the image   of the book to learn more about what's inside. About Me | Privacy | Terms and Conditions | Disclaimer | *Finance | Contact Copyright © 2006-2012 Paula Fitzpatrick. All rights reserved. By reading this web site you agree to accept our terms and conditions . The general information on this web site  is designed to support,  not replace,  specific medical advice or the relationship between you and your health care provider.  Always seek  specific advice from a physician or oth