
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 08:11:59 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 08:12:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.ace-homestay.com/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Sun, 06 May 2012 08:12:00 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2011  August | The Science Behind Drug Abuse Search for: Home Archive for August, 2011 « Older Entries Facts On Alcohol Withdrawal August 28th, 2011 Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome is a collection of symptoms visible when an individual abruptly withdraws from alcohol consumption. It is due to alcohol’s ability to induce physiological dependence. This syndrome is characterized by neuropsychiatric excitability and autonomic disturbances that can get even severe when exposed to a variety of sedative hypnotics like alcohol. Withdrawals occurs when blood levels start to decrease and can be alleviated by reintroduction of a cross tolerant agent or alcohol itself. Symptoms of Withdrawal Age, genetics, degree of alcohol intake, length of time the individual is abusing alcohol and the number of previous detoxification are key variables in the severity of the withdrawal symptoms. Symptoms can vary from mild to to life threatening. An individual suffering from the withdrawal may experience seizures and delirium tremens that can eventually lead to excito-neurotoxicity. The symptoms of the withdrawal includes but are not limited to agitation, anorexia, diarrhea, gastrointestinal upset, hypertension, fever, nausea, restlessness, headache, depression, hallucinations, anxiety, panic attacks, euphoria, palpitations, vomiting and even death. Protracted withdrawal syndrome is referred to as the post acute withdrawal syndrome. It takes place beyond the acute withdrawal stage, gradually decreasing over time at low intensities. Some protracted withdrawal symptoms include craving for alcohol, a feeling of displeasure over things that were normally pleasurable, nausea, vomiting and headaches. Treatments and Remedies for Withdrawal Symptoms Recommended treatments for withdrawal syndrome are drugs that are categorized as benzodiazepines such as diazepam, lorazepam anti psychotic agents such as haloperidol, anti-convulsants such as topiramate carbamazepine, barbiturates, donidine and vitamins. Benzodiazepines are generally safe and effective for subduing the symptoms of withdrawal. It is also used in alcohol detoxification. Chlordiazepoxide and diazepam are the commonly used type in withdrawal treatments. Not only can benzodiazepines treat withdrawal, it can also be life saving if delirium tremens occur frequently during withdrawal. Furthermore, benzodiazepines has also the capacity to alleviate cravings for alcohol in individuals who had resolved to lessen their intake of alcohol. On the other hand, haloperidol, a kind of anti psychotic agent can also be effective in treating withdrawal especially in controlling agitation or psychosis, However, it may be possible that there can be worsening of the withdrawal effects since anti psychotics agents lowers the seizure threshold subjectively on some patients. Topiramate carbamazepine and other anti-convulsants are used for the treatment of alcohol withdrawal though it has not yet been fully proven with further research. Other effective treatments include baclofen which is just as effective as diazepam, barbiturates are commonly used in severe cases, clonidine, flumazenil, trazadone, magnesium and even alcohol itself are also used. Vitamins are also recommended for patients by experts. It is also advised to refrain from smoking since smoking can interfere with the recovery of brain pathways of the patients. Comments Off » Tags: Alcohol alcohol withdrawal syndrome alcohol withdrawals anxiety panic attacks delirium individual intake physiological dependence sedative hypnotics Symptoms Cannabinoids and It’s Related Drug Abuse August 17th, 2011 All drugs have side effects. A number of then have been deemed legal only for certain uses, because of the possibility of drug addiction. Cannabinoids are among these heavily regulated drugs. It is important that you understand more about the effects and learn about how devastating it can be if abused. There are several factors to consider to ensure safety. Overview: Cannabinoids are described as a class of terpenophenolic compounds that appear in Cannabis and generally occur in the immune and nervous systems of animals. The wider description of cannabinoids pertains to a group of substances that are related structurally to THC or tetrahydrocannabinol or those that link with cannabinoid receptors. The chemical description includes an array of unique chemical classes: the non-classical cannabinoids, the classical cannabinoids associated to THC structurally, the eicosanoids linked to the endocannabinoids, the aminoalkylindoles, quinolines, arylsulphonamides and 1,5-diarylpyrazoles. Other compounds bind to cannabinoid receptors, but are not included in these standard groups. The Term: The term cannabinoids comes from the unique group of secondary metabolites located in the cannabis plant. These trigger the unique pharmacological effects of the plant. There are 3 main types of cannibinoids today namely endogenous cannabinoids, phytocannabinoids and synthetic cannabinoids. Endogenous cannabinoids are created inside the body of animals and human beings. Phytocannabinoids are present inside the cannabis plant. Synthetic cannabinoids are similar compounds created inside laboratories. About the Receptors: Cannibinoids used to be thought of as capable of producing their own behavioral and physical effects through nonspecific activities with cell membranes, instead of just relating with specific receptors. The first cannabinoid receptors were discovered during the 1980′s. The receptors are present in animals like mammals, birds and reptiles. The two known types are called CB1 and CB2. Type 1 and 2: Cannabinoid receptor type 1 or CB1 are located mainly inside the brain, specifically in the hippocampus, basal ganglia and limbic system. These are located in the cerebellum and inside both the male and female reproductive systems. There are fewer risks involving cardiac or respiratory failure because of the receptors’ absence in the medulla oblongata. The anticonvulsive effects and euphoric actions of cannabis are thought to be triggered by CB1 receptors. CB2 receptors are almost only located in the immune system. Majority of the density is inside the spleen. These are generally located only in the peripheral nervous system. These seem to trigger the therapeutic and anti-inflammatory actions of cannabis. About Phytocannabinoids, Endocannabinoids and Synthetic Compounds: Phytocannabinoids are not completely soluble in water. These are soluble, however, in non-polar organic solvents, alcohols and lipids. Phenolate salts that are water-soluble can be formed when on potent alkaline conditions. Endocannabinoids are created inside the body and trigger the receptors. Scientists started to look for the receptor’s endogenous ligand after the first receptor was discovered. New compounds are not associated to natural cannabinoids. Synthetic cannabinoids can be very helpful in tests to find out more about the correspondence between the activity of the cannabinoid compounds and the structure. Molecules of cannabinoids are modified and systematized to learn more about the different relationships The Effects: Neurotransmission can be limited by cannabinoids. The effects of the drugs can change depending on the location. The functions of each affected brain region will change depending on the dosage and extent. Some of the changes that the taker may experience include loss of motor coordination and control, emotional changes, changes in memory and cognitive capabilities, analgesia, nausea and vomiting. Some of the clinical effects of the drugs include anti-emetic effects, relief of muscle spasms, pain relief, epilepsy, glaucoma, movement disorder and appetite enhancement. The FDA or Food and Drug Administration approves of Dronabinol, a synthetic cannabinoid. Comments Off » Tags: body cannabinoid receptors cannabis plant endogenous cannabinoids Phytocannabinoids plant regulated drugs secondary metabolites Synthetic type Marijuana Abuse Is More Common Than You Think August 5th, 2011 Marijuana has been used by mankind for many thousands of years and yet there is a paucity of information about the exact number of people who are addicted to it: Although hard evidence is lacking about 5-10% of smokers who smoked pot will turn into chronic abusers of pot. Chronic smokers usually smoke more than two reefers a day and some may smoke as much as 10 reefers per day. Addiction to marijuana is similar to addiction to other drugs in that the individual initially smoke with control and over a period of time they tend to smoke more quantities of weed to get high and this leads to addiction. However there is a major difference between weed and other drugs in that weed does not cause physical dependence. It the high of grass that the smoker is in search of! Most smokers start pot in high school or college. Initially these are kind of social sessions with a lot of friends and fun. But over a period of time people start to smoke all by themselves and then the joint fills every single space and void in their lives. The enslavement of the individual is now complete. Therefore to help people figure out their addiction, I have designed this simple questionnaire about marijuana addiction. By honestly answering these questions one can reliably learn about their addiction status. Marijuana Addiction Test Answer these questions in simple yes or no format. There is no time limit, but it is advisable not to spend too much time on these questions as your answers can get biased. 1. Why do you smoke pot? Is it only for pleasure? 2. Is pot affecting every single aspect of your life? Do you leave office or parties to smoke a joint? Do you choose friends based on their marijuana use? 3. Do you smoke alone? 4. If you are out of pot, does it make you anxious and jittery? 5. Do you think that weed is a panacea to all your problems and avoid dealing with in the first place? 6. Are your memory concentration, judgment and motivation getting affected by smoking pot? 7. Does marijuana use let you live in a make believe world? 8. Do you feel the need to cut back or quit smoking pot? 9. Have you tried to quit smoking pot before and failed? 10. Do you find yourself constantly facing concerns from your friends and family members about your pot usage? 11. If weed is not around, do you instead drink alcohol or do other drugs? If you answer yes to more than six of these questions then you probably have a problem with marijuana abuse and the earlier one recognises it, easier is the remedy. Comments Off » Tags: addiction test individual information marijuana abuse marijuana addiction paucity physical dependence pleasure 2 use weed 1 2 Next » Recent Posts Some Healthy Extras Of 12-Step Meetings Taking Your Life Back Reaching For Good Health After Drugs And Alcohol Drug Addiction Tests You Can Do Right Now Drug Detox Breaks The Chains Of Addiction That Enslave An Addicts Life Tips To Beat Insomnia After Quitting Marijuana Real Effect of Extra Stamina from Penis Enhancement How Cocaine Can Affect You Drug Rehabilitation – A Path to Recovery The Best Appetite Suppressant You are currently browsing the archives for August, 2011. Archives April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011