Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 12 Jan 2010 20:50:20 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "0ce60dac893ca1:2160"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 04:57:53 GMT
Connection: close

Section 15 Stiff Neck - Therapeutics,Self- Massage of Chinese,body massage,clinical treatment,natural therapy,TCM Old TCM Website A/H1N1 flu TCM TCM News TCM And Life Diseases Inquiry TCM Answers TCM Encyclopaedia Video Gallery Literature Service And Products TCM Theory TCM Diagnosis TCM Helps On-Line Prevention And Rehabilitation Science Of Chinese Materia Medica TCM Prescription Sino-Western Medicine Joint TCM & Diseases TCM Natural Therapy Magazine TCM Activities Cases TCM Group TCM Search Tool Contact Us About Us Site Map Taking Chinese Medicine Diabetes Acne(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Aging Allergic rhinitis Anaemia(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Arthritis Asthma Bronchitis Cancer Cataract Chronic hepatitis Cervical spondylopatyh Colitis(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Constipation Depression Duodenal ulcer Eczema Eye care Fatigue Gallstone Glaucoma Gout Hay fever Heart diseases Hemorrhoid High Blood Pressure High cholesterol Impotence Insomnia Irritability kidney stone(TCM) Lumbago(TCM) Menopause(TCM) Menstrual disorder(TCM) Migraine headache(TCM) Obesity Osteo-arthrosis(TCM) periarthritis(TCM) Prostate disease(TCM) Psoriasis Insomnia(TCM) Rheumatoid arthritis Sciatica(TCM) Skin care(TCM) Spur(TCM) Stomach-ache(TCM) Thyroid disease(TCM) Tinnitus(TCM) Vertigo Parkinson(TCM) TCM Reflexology Asthma(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cervical spine disease Children's poor appe Common cold Constipation Diabetes Diarrhoea Frigidity Hemorrhoid Heart diseases Hypertension Headache(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Impotence Insomnia Irregular Menstruation Lumber muscle strain neurodermatitis Menopause(TCM PREVENTION) Obesity Parkinson Disease periarthritis(TCM PREVENTION) Prostate disease Psoriasis Rheumatoid arthritis Sinusitis Tinnitus(TCM PREVENTION) TCM Acupuncture Acute mastadenitis Sprain of soft tissues of the limbs Acute lumbar sprain Lumbago Rheumatoid arthritis Gonitis Thecal cyst External humeral epicondylitis Scapulohumeral periarthritis Stiff neck Dysfunction of temporomandibular joint Cervical spondylopathy Schizophrenia Globus hystericus Sequela of apoplexy Angioneurotic headache Intercostal neuralgia Sciatica Peripheral facial paralysis Diabetes Hyperthyroidism Seminal emission Prostatitis Prostatitis Retention of urine Urinary tract stones Infection of urinary tract Primary thrombocytopenic purpura Leukocytopenia Biliary tract infection and cholelithiasis Gastroptosis Gastric and duodenal ulcer Chronic gastritis Acute gastritis Coronary heart disease Arrhythmia Vomiting Toothache Tennis Elbow Painful Hemorrhoids Painful Elevation of the Arm Intestinal Worms Hysteria Epistaxis--Nosebleed Cystitis and Urethritis Coldness of the Extremities Car and Air Sickness Amenorrhea Acute Optic Neuritis Acute Lumbar pain Abdominal Pain Allergies Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Backache Colitis Constipation Depression Emotional instabilityaffective disoroers Gastro-intestinal disorders Gynecological disorders Headache Hypertension (high blood pressure) Infertility Insomnia Lumbar disc syndrome Menopause Migraine Neck Problnms Numbness Obesity Paralysis and paresis Parkinsonism Psoriasis Sciatica Sexual impotence Sinusitis (cgronic) Smoking Stroke residuals Tinnitus Trigeminal neuralgia TCM Herbal Tea Hypertension Formula Anti-Cancer Formula Health Care Formula Arthritis Care Formula Skin Revitalizing Formula Slim Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cholesterol/Eyes Care Formula Diabetes Formula Migraine Formula Constipation Formula Detox/Purify Formula Prostate Care Formula Male Fertility Formula Female Fertility Formula Menopause Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Menstruation Formula Sciatica Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Skin Disease Formula Insomnia Formula Lumbago Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Sinusitis Formula Swelling Care Formula Tinnitus Formula Stone Relief Formula Thyroids Formula Stomach & ulcer Formula Colitis Care Formula Asthma Formula Romance Formula Haircome Formula Cardiovascular Formula Web Encyclopaedia Answers Disease Acupoints Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs Joining TCM Group Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs All Acupoints Here: Home -> Tuina & Massage -> Therapeutics >Information Section 15 Stiff Neck From: TCM_xiaozhong Time: 2008-11-29 11:35:00 Acupuncture: TCM to the world a breakthrough "national essence of acupuncture," the story in the United States the special use of acupuncture "national essence of acupuncture," the story in the United States the special use of acupuncture Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department [PDF]Section 15 Stiff Neck Section 15 Stiff Neck Introduction Stiff neck is a commonly encountered disease marked by spasms of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, trapezius muscle and levator muscle of the scapula as well as stiffness and restriction of the neck. Stiffneck is usually caused by improper posture in sleep (such as when the head slips off the pillow or the pillow is too high or too low) which leads to long-term fatigue in the cervical muscles and stagnation in blood circulation which can result in reflex spasms of the cervical muscles on one side as well as a deviation in the neck. In some cases stiff neck is caused by an attack of cold and wind or trauma during sleep which leads to obstruction of the local meridians, stagnancy of qi and blood, malnutrition of local muscles and spasms in tendons and blood vessels. The Symptoms of Stiff Neck Usually the patient feels aching pain and stiffness on one side of the neck as well as difficulty in moving and rotating the head when he or she gets up in the morning. If the patient tries to move the head to a normal position, the pain becomes aggravated and can even involve the shoulder and back. Examination: Spasms of the muscles on one side of the neck, obvious tenderness, a palpable rope-like mass of tissue or nodule in the neck, restricted movement of the neck and tenderness at the inner angle of the scapula. Self-Massage Along Meridians and Acupoint s 1. Pressing and kneading the Fengchi point (GB 20) Performance: Sitting position. The tips of the thumbs of both hands are used alternatively to press and knead Fengchi (located in the depression below the occipital tuberosity) for about one minute (see Fig. 1). The massage is light at first and then heavy. Then the kneading technique is used to knead clockwise until a local aching, distending and comfortable sensation is felt. During the course of kneading, the head is rotated slowly several times. 2. Pressing and kneading the Jianjing point (GB 21) Performance: Sitting position. The middle finger of one hand presses and kneads Jianjing (located on the middle point of the line connecting the seventh cervical vertebral process and the acromion and at the prominence of the shoulder) for about two minutes until a local aching and distending sensation is felt (see Fig. 2). Then the other side is pressed and kneaded in the same way. 3. Pressing and kneading Tianzong (SI 11) Performance: Sitting position with the relaxation of the cervical muscles. One hand is placed on the shoulder of the other side, and the middle finger is used to press Tianzong (located in the middle ofinfraspinous fossa of the scapula) for two minutes until an aching and distending sensation is felt in the shoulder and back and a limp or relaxed feeling is felt in the arm on the affected side (see Fig. 4). When being kneaded and pressed, the neck should be rotated slowly starting in a small circle to a wider range until the neck feels less stiff, pain is alleivated and the movement of the head is improved. Among the three acupoint s mentioned above, Fengchi and Jianjing are located on the gallbladder meridian, and Tianzong on the small intestine meridian. Frequent pressing and kneading of these acupoint s is effective in activating blood, dredging meridians, dispelling wind and relieving superficial pathogenic factors. 4. Rubbing and Massaging the Neck ① Performance: Sitting position. The hand on the healthy side is raised up with palm open and four fingers close together. The palm is put on the back and sides of the cervical vertebrae to rub and massage for two minutes with the palm in close contact with the skin. The manipulation should be harmonious and rhythmic. The strength used for rubbing and massaging should be even and deep until a comfortable and warm sensation is felt (see Fig. 5). Then the other hand is used to rub and massage the neck the same way. ② Effect: This method can warm and dredge qi and blood, and relieve spasms and pain. 5. Kneading the Neck and Shoulder ① Performance: Sitting position. The palm of one hand is placed on the opposite side of the neck with fingers slightly bent. The index, middle, ring and tittle fingers with the heel of the palm rhythmically knead from the neck to the acromion (outer end of the scapula to which the collarbone is attached) for about a minute. The kneading is light at first and then heavier, monitored to the tolerance of the patient until a comfortable sensation is felt (see Fig. 6). Then the other hand is used to knead the other side in the same way. ② Effect: This method dredge meridians and relieve spasm. 6. Patting the Neck (1) Performance: Sitting position with neck and head relaxed. ① Squeezing and lifting the nape: The fingers of both hands intertwine to hold the nape and the head leans slightly backward. Then the heels of the palm are used to squeeze and lift the nape for about a minute (see Fig. 7). ② Light patting of the neck: The hand on one side is raised over the chest with the slight bending of the five fingers to pat the other side of the neck from top to bottom for about one  to two minutes (see Fig. 8). Then the other hand is used to pat the other side of the neck in the same way. ③ Moving the neck: When the cervical muscles are relaxed, the head and neck are bent forward, backward and to both sides. But such movement should be done slowly and gently, avoiding any sudden movement (see Fig. 9). (2) Effect: This technique can help relax the tendon, activate blood, warm meridians and dredge collaterals. Notes: 1. Self-massage along meridians and acupoint s is done one or two times a day. Frequent massaging of the neck is effective in preventing and treating stiff neck. 2. Stiff neck is a kind of acute injury of the soft tissues. Proper and timely treatment will ensure quick recovery without subsequent problems. However, recurrent relapses may lead to disease of the cervical vertebrae. So a stiff neck m Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department [1] [2] Next Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Chapter 3 Methods Section 2 Headache Extensive Reading Foot massage--- self-care massage video Life-cultivation and rehabilitation: good place of providing health physique！ TCM knows: health life should be talked freely TCM and life: life-cultivation and nourishment of face Mild Reminder Ten days Qigong Study Tour Guilin Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Gongfu and Painting Tour Traditonal Chinese Medicine Study Tour Customized Tours Design your own decision with our help to meet your unique interests.You don't have to compromise,just do exactly what you want to do!we will arrange the satisfied plan according to your demand.It includes the following aspects: Study Tours Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Name: EMail: Theme: Questions: Special Recommendation Detox/Purify Capsules can help! Headache Pills! Gouteng-Hypertension Formula Juemingzi-Cholesterol/Eyes Care Formula New Feeling：Graceful Shape Begins from New Feeling! Guilin Sweet Yangshuo China Oriental Discovery TCM Service Questionnaire on Service Platform TCM Search Tool TCM expert group Service Platform for Patient Health Archive TCM literature User Control Panel TCM Helps On-Line Related Reading Acupuncture E-magzine show you the mystery of acupuncture manipulation and methods. Meridian and collateral illustration: effective meridian and collateral health care illustration of treating diseases Acupuncture and moxibustion illustration: the most authoritative and exceptional acupuncture and moxibustion illustration in the world Medical School Vasectomy, Male Infertility, Texas Vasectomy Reversal Clinic Dr Hamilton’s Chinese Medicine Clinic in Scotland The Rising Lotus Qigong Traditional Chinese Acupuncture by Guanhu Yang Chinese Medical Centre of Cyprus The Family of Light Healing Centre Acne treatment Sacramento dentistry Acai Berry Is Medical Tourism Safe? Acomplia Diet Pills Zimulti (Rimonabant) Personal Fitness Trainers Training Plan Bodymind Healing Center More Links More Links Copyright©2003,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department About Us | TCM | Reflexology | Acupuncture | Taiji | Qigong | Herbal Tea | Products | Advertise | Contact us | TCM Union | Site Map Tel: +86-773-5820588 Fax: +86-773-5845295 E-mail: tcmadv