
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 02:55:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Vary: Cookie
X-hacker: If you're reading this, you should visit automattic.com/jobs and apply to join the fun, mention this header.
X-Pingback: http://natureasmedicine.wordpress.com/xmlrpc.php

May « 2009 «  Nature As Medicine Nature As Medicine Everything About Natural Remedies & Health Care Home About Nature As Medicine Disclaimer Herbal Ashwagandha Effects And Medicinal Uses 19 05 2009 Winter Cherry (Withania Somnifera) , also known as Ashwagandha and Indian Ginseng , is one of the most valuable herbs in the ancient Ayurvedic medical system, dating back more than 4,000 years. Ashwagandha is competent to treat a wide range of conditions including arthritic inflammation, anxiety, insomnia, respiratory disorders, nervous disorders, gynecological disorders and male infertility. Ashwagandha is a great stress relieving Ayurvedic Herb Winter Cherry is a beautiful plant native to India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. It is defined by deep green leaves, branched limbs, and topped by seeded yellow flowers. . The roots are stout, fleshy and whitish brown. The fruits are yellow, orange and red when ripe. Withania Somnifera has a long history of use as a holistic herb to treat a variety of ailments. The active ingredients in Ashwagandha are the alkaloids and withanoloids . It is the withanoloids that give it most of its medicinal qualities. Withanoloids consist of steroidal molecules, which act to fight inflammation. This herb is often compared to Asian ginseng, which also contain molecules like withanoloids called ginsenosides. For this reason Ashwagandha is occasionally called Indian ginseng. Hence this remarkable herb stimulates the immune system, stops inflammation, increases memory, and helps to maintain general health and wellness. The Winter Cherry herb improves athletic ability and physical energy, enhances immunity to common cold and infections, and provides greater endurance, building vitality & vigour. Ashwagandha acts as a tonic that prevents energy loss due to its effect on the immune system. This herb has a mild sedative effect over the central nervous system thus functioning as a good muscle relaxant. A major traditional use of the herb is in “balancing life forces,” which may be regarded as an adaptogenic or anti-stress tonic effect. Thus, winter cherry is considered to be a general promoter of health, or a “rasayana” that promotes rejuvenation according to traditional Ayurvedic practice. Purported anti-inflammatory benefits have led to use in tuberculosis, liver disease, rheumatic disorders, and skin problems. The herb’s “panacea” reputation has expanded its repertoire to include therapy for weakness, stress, sexual debility, aging symptoms, and anemia, among many other conditions. It is claimed to he effective in infections, particularly those caused by fungi. Latest researches reveal that Ashwagandha, if given in proper dose, can restore the neurotransmitters and hence can be useful in various mental disorders. Both men and women can use this herb safely.  It acts effectively to calm the mind and promote sound, restful sleep. Ashwagandha works as an adaptogen, promoting the body’s ability to maintain homeostasis and resist stress. It prevents or minimizes imbalances that may lead to disease, whether from poor diet, lack of sleep, mental or physical strain, or chemical toxins in the environment. It is especially beneficial in stress related disorders such as arthritis, hypertension, diabetes, general debility, etc. This herb is quite unique as it assists the body to produce its own thyroid hormones. Ashwagandha improves male libido, it cures impotence and increases male fertility. This herb is also used in treatment for asthma and as a uterine sedative. The extracts of the roots and leaves, preferably of dried ones, can be used as anti-oxidant to take care of free radicals, which cause premature aging. Studies have also found the herb to be useful in treating depression, Alcohol dependency, and schizophrenia. Also, when Ashwagandha is taking regularly memory and learning skills increase dramatically. Like any medicine one needs to be careful, when taking winter cherry . Overuse and abuse of Ashwagandha herbal medication can be equally as dangerous and deadly as with any traditional or allopathic medicine. Comments : 5 Comments » Tags: ashwagandha , ashwagandha benefits , ashwagandha depression , ashwagandha dosage , ashwagandha effects , ashwagandha extract , ashwagandha health benefits , ashwagandha herb , ashwagandha leaves , ashwagandha oil , ashwagandha plant , ashwagandha side effects , ashwagandha supplement , ashwagandha thyroid , ashwagandha withania somnifera , aswagandha , benefit of ashwagandha , buy ashwagandha , herbal ashwagandha , herbs ashwagandha , indian ginseng , winter cherry , winter cherry plant , winter cherry tree , withania herb , withania side effects , withania somnifera , withania somnifera extract , withania somnifera plant Categories : Winter cherry or Ashwagandha Herb Keep Yourself Healthy Using Heavenly Hibiscus Plants 18 05 2009 Hibiscus (Hibiscus rosa sinensis) is commonly known by a wide range of names around the world like China rose, Chinese Hibiscus, Hawaiian Hibiscus, Shoeflower plant, Lipstick flower, Rosa Mallow, Japakusuma, Gumamela, etc., It belongs to a family of about 300 different species all over the world. It grows abundantly in many tropical and subtropical regions throughout the year.  Hibiscus is a flowering green shrub that blooms in brilliant colors of red, orange, pink, while, yellow, and sometimes peach. Hibiscus Plant Promotes Excellent Hair Growth Leaves and flowers of hibiscus are used in medicinal and cosmetic preparations. The flowers and leaves act as very good health nutrients especially for hair growth and skin rejuvenation. The dried flowers can be mixed with coconut oil or sesame oil and boiled nicely. This oil can then be cooled down, applied gently on the hair roots and massaged on the scalp to assist hair growth and also to prevent hair fall. Hibiscus leaves and petals are powdered & mixed along with amla (Indian gooseberry) powder and brahmi to get much improved results in having thicker hair growth and to prevent premature hair graying. Apart from the above, the gumamela flower , as a valuable herbal medicine, has the following medicinal characteristics: expectorant, diuretic, emollient, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, anodyne and refrigerant. Hibiscus is used to treat coughs by placing extracts from the plant in the patient’s bath or in water used for steam inhalations. Hibiscus is often combined with other herbs to make cough syrup. The hibiscus flower extracts are also used for preventing the pregnancy at the early stage. As hibiscus is a natural emollient , it can be used for softening or healing the skin. The leaves and flowers of the plant are used all around the world for their emollient qualities. When the leaves are heated, they can be placed on cracked feet or on boils and ulcers to promote healing. Since the herb has cooling properties, when applied externally it cools the surface of the skin by increasing blood flow to the epidermis and dilating the pores of the skin. A lotion made from of hibiscus leaves can be used to soothe hemorrhoids, sunburn and open sores. Gumamela can be utilized in two different ways as a herbal medicine. For using dried gumamela, collect the flower, leaves and/or roots. Wash, then cut into small pieces and dry them under the sun. To use as decoction, boil the dried gumamela parts (1/4 cup or 1/3cup dried gumamela in 1 glass of water). In ayurvedic medicine the roots of hibiscus are claimed to possess the property of curing the venereal disease. Intake of gumamela (alone or mixed with papaya or papaya seeds) especially in large quantities can be an abortifacient. Poultice is the use or fresh or dried herbs that is mashed or crushed, often heated (boiled in water to soften and heat the herb) and applied directly to the skin. A clean cloth or gauze can be used to help the poultice stay in place. Hibiscus poultice is applied externally on the afflicted area. This is used to treat headaches, boils, swellings, abscesses and mumps. Hibiscus plant is very beneficial indeed. You can plant it in your garden and within 6 months you already have a mature hibiscus plant that can provide you pretty flowers and medicinal & health benefits. Just try it out!!! Comments : 4 Comments » Tags: benefits of hibiscus , benefits of hibiscus tea , buy hibiscus , china rose , china roses , chinese hibiscus , gumamela flower , gumamela flowers , gumamela parts , hawaiian hibiscus , hawaiian hibiscus flower , health benefits of hibiscus , hibicus , hibiscus benefit , hibiscus benefits , hibiscus care , hibiscus extract , hibiscus flower , hibiscus flowers , hibiscus health , hibiscus health benefits , hibiscus leaf , hibiscus leaves , hibiscus plants , hibiscus rosa , hibiscus seeds , hibiscus sinensis , hibiscus tea , hibiscus tea benefits , hybiscus , lipstick flower , parts of gumamela , plant hibiscus , shoeflower Categories : Hibiscus Plants & Flowers Pamper Your Health With Pot Marigold Medicinal Powers 17 05 2009 Marigold or Calendula (Calendula officinalis) is an annual plant that blooms successfully in virtually any soil but can generally be found in Europe, Western Asia, and North America. Calendula is also known as garden marigold, holligold, gold bloom, pot marigold, etc., Marigold plant grows to 12 to 30 inches and produces edible yellow-orange marigold flowers from spring through fall. Marigold Plant & Flowers Are Powerful Natural Medicines The dried marigold flowers, petals, leaves and roots are all used for medicinal purposes. Calendula (in its extract form) is made from a species of marigold flower called Pot Marigold. This extract is highly beneficial as an Alternative Therapy. Marigold is rich in various medicinal properties and acts as all of the following: Anti-fungal, anti-infective, anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-septic, anti-viral, anti-spasmodic, astringent, detoxifier, diaphoretic, estrogenic and immunostimulant. Marigold is mainly used for treating conjunctivitis. It can heal external lacerations, abrasions and skin blemishes, rashes, wounds, chapped lips, diaper rash, gum and tooth infections, hemorrhoids, sore throats and tonsillitis. Marigold cures eye inflammations and redness due to eye infections. Since it has anti-spasmodic property it is beneficial to treat menstrual cramps. Due to its anti septic potential it assists the smooth refreshed flow of blood to the affected area in the body and thus heals the wounds and ulcers. The dried flowers or petals are boiled in water and the decoction is consumed with little honey, which improves the digestion. The infusion made out of the petals relieves symptoms of menopause. The liquid decoction is strained to gargle twice a day to clear all the bacterial infections. Marigold has antifungal property that is useful to treat athletes’ feet, ringworm and candida. The flowers can be squeezed and applied to wounds also to experience faster healing. Antiseptic property of marigold is also useful to treat the bad mouth and sore throat. Calendula is added to a cream or lotion and applied directly to affected areas to treat varicose veins. Creams made with Calendula can reduce the inflammation associated with varicose veins and can regenerate weak, damaged veins and spider veins. Calendula is also useful to treat haemorrhoids. An ointment made out of marigold has been proven to reduce the skin irritation due to radiation therapy when treating cancer. It has also been shown to reduce the direct pain experienced due to the radiation process. Calendula Officinalis is also recommended for use in treating chronic ulcers, capillary engorgement, and congestion. Marigold flowers are edible, and may be added to salads or cooked foods. They can also be dried for use in teas. Calendula may be purchased or prepared as creams, teas, tinctures, infusions, compresses, and washes. Calendula contains high amounts of flavonoids, plant-based antioxidants that protect the body against cell-damaging free radicals. As a result of it is a preferred ingredient in natural anti-aging skin care products and moisturisers formulated for dry, sensitive and damaged skin. Marigold is generally a very safe herb however some people might experience allergic reactions. If you experience any such reactions then it is better to cease the usage and consult a medical expert. Be sure the wounds are cleaned before applying calendula. Note: This post refers only to Pot Marigold or Calendula Officinalis , not to be mistaken with the non-herb marigolds, dwarf French Marigolds and African Marigolds. Comments : 7 Comments » Tags: buy calendula officinalis , buy marigold , calendula calendula officinalis , calendula cream , calendula extract , calendula flower , calendula flowers , calendula for skin , calendula gel , calendula lotion , calendula officinalis , calendula officinalis extract , calendula officinalis flower , calendula officinalis flower extract , calendula officinalis seeds , calendula oil , calendula ointment , calendula tea , flower marigold , flowers marigold , flowers marigolds , marigold , marigold care , marigold extract , marigold flower extract , marigold health , marigold health foods , marigold leaf , marigold leaves , marigold oil , marigold plant , marigold plants , marigolds , pot marigold Categories : Marigold plant benefits Invigorating Therapeutic Benefits Of Thyme Herb 16 05 2009 Thyme , Latin name Thymus vulgaris , is a very aromatic herb that has been well known and oft used since ancient times. Ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans all used this herb for both culinary and medicinal purposes in varying capacities. There exist written records of this thyme herb being used for room purification due to its distinct aroma and also for flavouring the food items, apart from its medicinal benefits. Thyme Herb Is An Excellent Antiseptic Medicinal Uses Of Thyme Thyme works well as a powerful antiseptic. It is used as an antiseptic against tooth decay, destroys fungal infections as in athlete’s foot and skin parasites such as crabs and lice. It is very effective for colic, flatulence, sore throats, and colds. Thyme also cures digestion related problems and also acts as a hangover remedy. Simply Organic Thyme Leaf – 6 Units / 1.31 oz Infusions of thyme are claimed to be good for headaches, and has been proven to be beneficial for coughs related to colds and flu as well as whooping cough. This effect is possible due to the active constituents in thyme, which loosen and expel mucous. Thyme infusion is also soothing and healing for skin irritations, muscle spasms, and fungal infections. Oil of thyme has also been used medicinally in topical applications on the skin, mouthwash, and as an antiseptic. Thymol is the substance primarily contained in the herb that makes it a good antiseptic. Thymol is the active ingredient in Listerine mouthwash. This plant also contains a constituent that is helpful for preventing blood clots. Thyme is an excellent antimicrobial herb. Studies have shown that thyme when used in preserving food actually helps prevent spoilage, especially in foods that are not cooked, such as salads. Using fresh thyme in a salad can make the salad safer and healthier to eat. Aura Cacia Essential Oil – Red Thyme, 0.5 oz The essential oil is used in aromatherapy to boost the mind, spirit, and body. The vapour from the essential oil is used to treat respiratory infections. Taken internally oil of thyme is known to be poisonous in amounts of a teaspoon, as it is very strong. It may be too strong for many people externally as well, so caution is advised. Thyme oil or infusion can be added to the bath to aid rheumatism and bronchial difficulties. Thyme stimulates the formation of white blood cells and aids the oxygenation of cellular tissue for removal of toxic wastes during illness. Thyme oil boosts your lymphatic system and builds self-esteem and confidence in your ability to heal. Nature’s Answer Thyme – Liquid, 1 oz Thyme Tea Thyme Tea is most often used to aid in treatment from the common cold, bronchitis, and coughs. It has the potential to dry mucous membranes and relax spasms of the bronchial passage to provide relief from coughing. It is also known to treat infections and has antiseptic abilities. It is used frequently as a vital ingredient in toothpastes and mouthwashes. If you are treating nausea, add a little ginger to the tea. Boil 1 cup of fresh water and add 1 tsp of the dried herbs and a slice of ginger root. The most common variety to use for tea is Thymus Vulgaris, however Thymus Serpyllum contains a sedative property and can make you sleepy. It is a great tea prior to bedtime, especially for those of you experiencing disturbed sleep. Get Ground Thyme – 5 Lb Ground Thyme: GR CAUTION: Thyme might behave as a skin irritant, avoid during pregnancy, or in cases with a diagnosed seizure disorder, high-blood pressure, or hyperthyroidism. Comments : 1 Comment » Tags: benefits of thyme , fresh thyme , health benefits of thyme , nature thyme , oil of thyme , tea and thyme , tea leaves thyme , thyme benefits , thyme buy , thyme essential oil , thyme health , thyme health benefits , thyme herb , thyme herbal , thyme herbs , thyme leaves , thyme medicinal , thyme oil , thyme plant , thyme plants , thyme products , thyme seeds , thyme tea , thymus vulgaris , thymus vulgaris oil Categories : Therapeutic Thyme Herb Solanum Xanthocarpum or Yellow Berried Nightshade – A Unique Herb With Extraordinary Powers 15 05 2009 Yellow berried nightshade , also known by the biological name Solanum xanthocarpum & by the ayurvedic ancient name Kantakari, is a very spiny diffuse herb growing up to 1.2 m tall. This unique herb is commonly found in the forest and dry lands of tropical and subtropical regions. Yellow berried nightshade is a very good herbal expectorant The yellow berried nightshade or Solanum xanthocarpum is one of the members of the dasamula or ten important medicinal roots of the Ayurveda. Different parts of this plant such as its fruits, roots are used in making specific medicines. Its roots are used in the preparation of expectorant to treat coughs. Roots of solanum xanthocarpum possess the ability to heal asthma, flatulence, sore throat, toothache, bronchial spasm and constipation. The juice of the yellow berries is used to relieve sore throat. Roots and seeds are administered as an expectorant in asthma, cough and pain in the chest. Stem flowers and fruits are bitter and carminative and are prescribed for relief in burning sensation in the feet. Leaves are applied locally to relieve pain. The drug is collected mainly from the wild plants, as there is very minimal systematic cultivation of this herb. Kanta Kari Herb Powder (Solanum xanthocarpum) 8 oz: B Nasal administration of this herb will reduce migraine and headache. The dried fruits are smoked and the smoke is held in the dental cavity to treat the infection or toothache. It is exceptionally beneficial in the treatment of cardiac diseases related with edema because this herb is a stimulant to the heart activities and also an effective blood purifier. The seeds of the fresh fruits or dried fruits are beneficial in irregular menstruation, dysmenorrheal, for women when taken in the form of a powder. For the men the fruits are useful as an aphrodisiac. There are a couple of other kinds of solanum xanthcarpum, which are usually violet and white flowered plants. The white flowered solanum xanthocarpum plant is helpful to promote conception in women. The Kantakari herb is well known for its diuretic property, which is beneficial to cure dropsy. The juice of the leaves mixed with black pepper is advised for rheumatism. The leaves juice is externally applied to relieve body or muscle pain. Pharmacological studies on this herb have shown that aqueous and alcoholic extracts of the plant possess hypotensive effect, which is partly inhibited by atropine Kanta Kari Herb Powder (Solanum xanthocarpum) 100 / 450 mg vegicaps: B The fruits are frequently eaten as anthelmintic and for treating indigestion. The decoction of the roots are mixed with long pepper and honey for reducing wet cough and if the same is mixed with a little salt and asafoetida and then taken, it will give relief to spasmodic cough. Given with honey, holy basil (Ocimum sanctum), datura (Datura metal), and black pepper it can be quite effective in cases of bronchial asthma. Comments : 3 Comments » Tags: asthma home remedies , cough expectorant , expectorants , flatulence cure , herb medicinal , herbal expectorant , kantakari , medicinal herbal plants , medicinal root , medicinal roots , natural asthma remedies , natural cure for asthma , natural expectorant , natural remedies for asthma , solanum xanthocarpum , yellow berried nightshade Categories : Solanum xanthocarpum or Yellow berried Nightshade Impressive Natural Cures Of Alfalfa Herb 14 05 2009 Alfalfa is a plant with roots going down up to twenty to thirty feet into the ground. By doing this it brings up the minerals that are not available on the surface. For this reason, the Arabic word Alfalfa means “father of plants”. Alfalfa Health Benefits Include Reducing Bad Cholesterol Alfalfa plant is rich in vitamins, minerals and other amazing nutrients that play a vital role in the strength and growth of our bones and in the maintenance of a healthy cellular system in your body. It contains proteins, vitamins A, B1, B6, C, E and K. It also contains calcium, potassium, carotene, iron, and zinc. It can be consumed in the form of seeds, leaves or tablets prepared from its extracts. Alfalfa Leaf Cut & Sifted Cert. Organic (Medicago sativa) 1 lb: K Alfalfa sprouts and alfalfa leaf can assist to reduce blood cholesterol levels. There is convincing clinical evidence that alfalfa lowers cholesterol. This is particularly true for individuals with a specific kind of high cholesterol known as type II hyperlipoproteinemia. The fibers and chemicals in alfalfa stick to cholesterol, so that it doesn’t stay in the blood and so it can’t be deposited on blood vessel walls. The most important factor of Alfalfa is that it seems to lower bad cholesterol (LDL) while leaving good cholesterol (HDL) alone. Since alfalfa contains saponins to prevent excessive cholesterol absorption, the tea prepared using alfalfa sprouts is helpful to the people suffering from blood pressure problems. Alfalfa has the potential to reduce atherosclerosis or plaque on the inside of artery walls. This herb also relieves the arthritis symptoms. Many of pregnancy’s discomforts are relieved by the use of alfalfa tablets. These include morning sickness, heartburn, constipation and anemia. Alfalfa tablets raise the vitamin K level of pregnant women, reducing postpartum bleeding in both quantity and duration, and they increase the vitamin K stores in newborns, reducing bleeding problems for them as well. Alfalfa Juice Extract Powder: 50% Protein (Medicago sativa) 1 lb: C Alfalfa herb supports success in lactation because they help increase and sustain milk supply. It frequently helps alleviate nausea, almost always relieves constipation, and also brings up red blood counts in a beneficial way. It also seems to help reduce swelling and improve erratic blood sugar levels. This herb has the power to strengthen the body’s immune system. While the iron content of the herb helps to treat anemia, its calcium content prevents dental decay. Fresh alfalfa leaves can be squeezed and the juice taken out of the same to be mixed with carrot juice and consumed for improving the hair growth significantly. Tea can be made out of alfalfa seeds also. The seeds are boiled in water for thirty minutes and then strained. Honey is added to this tea to get a herbal concoction, which is recommended for arthritis patients. Alfalfa seeds are also used as the folk remedy in treating asthma or other breathing problems. Alfalfa Leaf Vegicaps (Medicago sativa) 500 caps/360 mg: C Chemicals in alfalfa have mild diuretic properties, which may promote the loss of water from the body. Therefore, alfalfa may relieve swelling caused by excess water accumulation. The chlorophyll in alfalfa develops an effective barrier against bacterial invasion by its stimulation effect on the growth of connective tissue and granulation tissue. The ancient Greeks used alfalfa to treat a variety of diseases including bladder and kidney conditions. Traditional Chinese medicine uses alfalfa to treat kidney stones. Alfalfa Mint Herbal Tea Blend Cert. Organic 1 lb: C I hope this post encourages you to try out some natural remedies comprising of Alfalfa and its extracts for achieving great health outcomes. Comments : 1 Comment » Tags: alfalfa , alfalfa arthritis , alfalfa extract , alfalfa for sale , alfalfa health , alfalfa herb , alfalfa herbs , alfalfa juice , alfalfa leaf , alfalfa leaves , alfalfa pellet , alfalfa pellets , alfalfa plant , alfalfa products , alfalfa sale , alfalfa seed , alfalfa seeds , alfalfa sprouts , alfalfa supplement , alfalfa supplements , alfalfa tablet , alfalfa tablets , alfalfa tea , alfalfa uses , alfalfa vitamin , alfalfa vitamins , buy alfalfa , medicago sativa , medicago sativa alfalfa , where to buy alfalfa Categories : Impressive Alfalfa Herb Solanum Torvum or Turkey Berry, A Special Medicinal Herb 13 05 2009 Solanum torvum is a prickly shrub or small tree, up to 5 m tall. It is cultivated in the tropics for its sharp-tasting, immature fruits. This vegetable cum herb plant is a God given gift to heal many ailments. This plant will grow in almost all tropical weather conditions. Solanum torvum or turkey berry - A great medicinal plant The turkey berries as they are otherwise known, are green in colour and small, round in size & shape respectively. They hang on the tree in cluster forms and are useful to yield many health benefits either in fresh or dried form. The berries are soaked in buttermilk for around a week and dried under the sun for more than two weeks to get completely dried berries. These dried turkey berries are used in culinary preparations and also in home made remedies. Apart from berries, the roots of this plant are also proven to exhibit medicinal properties. As an Ayurvedic herb it is used in many Ayurvedic Treatments, it has sedative, diuretic and digestive properties. It used in the treatment for coughs. It is an excellent tonic for liver. The juice extracted from the leaf is used to reduce body heat and unripe fruits are used to strengthen the immunity of the body. Benefits of Solanum Torvum Berries: The dried berries of solanum torvum are heated with a little oil and crushed to powder. People suffering from mucus, cough or phlegm can take a teaspoonful of this powder to get considerable relief from this trouble. To heal the night blindness, the berries can be roasted and mixed with food grains such as millets and then consumed. The berries have the potential to remove the bacterial infestations in the intestine and take care of regular bowel activities. The dried berries are mixed in equal ratio with dried Indian gooseberry or amla, with little fenugreek seeds, ajwain, dry ginger, cumin seeds, dried curry leaves, shells of pomegranate & soft seeds of mango fruit and then fried with two to three teaspoonfuls of clarified butter. This is then ground to obtain a very useful and effective herbal powder. This powder has to be taken small quantities amounting to a few grams followed by warm milk every morning and evening to treat problems such as piles, asthma, chest phlegm, tuberculosis and severe cough. Roots of Solanum torvum: Roots of solanum torvum are soaked in tamarind water and then made into an extract, which will benefit to reduce the toxins. The roots of this plant are blended with the roots of sandalwood and amaranthacea roots and then made into a nice paste. This paste is formulated into small tablets, which can be taken as a good treatment for curing stomachache. I hope this post might induce some of you to try out solanum torvum for a better life without health problems. Comments : 3 Comments » Tags: cough and cold remedies , cough home remedies , cough home remedy , cough natural remedy , herbal cough remedy , home remedies for cough , natural cough remedies , phlegm medicine , phlegm remedies , phlegm remedy , solanum torvum , solanum torvum seeds , solanum torvum swartz , turkey berries , turkey berry , turkeyberry Categories : Solanum Torvum Uses Valuable Curative Features Of The Valerian Herb 12 05 2009 Valerian is a hardy perennial flowering plant, with pinnate leaves & heads of sweetly scented pink or white flowers. It contains a rootstock, which harbours many active compounds that herb researchers believe endow this plant with an incredible medicinal value. Valerian herb has a very good root system and a short rhizome. The roots and rhizomes are used for its medicinal properties. Valerian is a valuable cure for insomnia and stress Valerian is well known for its natural tranquilizing abilities, its sedative qualities and its effectiveness in calming the central nervous system. It helps to smoothen the muscle groups. Valerian has around 120 chemical components with complex combinations. Much research has been done on this herb and its affect on the body. Valerian has chemicals in it called valepotriates, which seem to depress some activity of the nervous system. The great benefit of this herb is that it works to calm your nerves without many of the side effects like prescriptions or OTC drugs have. Nature’s Answer Valerian Root – Extract, 1 oz Valerian plays a major role in the treatment of insomnia. Apart from this tranquilizing use, the extracts of valerian roots and the leaves are useful to heal headaches, muscle spasms, menstrual cramps, stress and stress-related digestive disorders. However, it is not advisable to take this herb on a daily basis. However, when any form of the above stated health discomforts are observed, this herb can certainly be used as a formidable medicine. Valerian is not an addictive substance, and doesn’t lead to the usually groggy “Sleep Hangover” that some people feel when they take sleep aids. For this reason, its use is widely accepted. You can prepare the valerian root into maceration. Take two tablespoons of the chopped, fresh valerian root and soak it in a cup of cool water for approximately eight hours. Other herbs can be combined as well into this concoction, including peppermint, which can make it taste slightly better. Herbs For Kids Valerian Super Calm – 2 oz A valerian root hot tea is also a great choice to help decrease your anxiety and insomnia symptoms as well. Infusion made out of valerian acts as a perfect medicine, as a pain reliever, which treats menstrual pain and irritable bowel syndrome. Dried leaves and roots of valerian herb are used to prepare herbal tea, which again has the potential to calm down the brain and gives relaxation to entire body system. Valerian roots are dried and boiled with water to get the extract after straining the liquid mixture. This tea bears the following health benefits. Nature’s Way Valerian Nighttime – 100 tab Valerian Tea helps to treat chronic insomnia, muscle spasms, sleeplessness & menstrual problems. It acts as a mild sedative it soothes the nervous system. It improves the digestive system while preventing cramps due to irritable bowel problems. Valerian Tea calms down hysteria and restless behaviours and it bears the potential to lower the blood pressure. A dose between 250 mg to 500mg per day is an adequate dose of this supplement. Possible side effects from taking overly high amounts of Valerian can include nausea, headaches, dizziness, grogginess, and palpitations of the heart. Very high dosages may also impair the liver and the central nervous system. Alvita Tea Bag Tea – Valerian Root, 24 bag So now you know more about Valerian herb and this will guide you to make a better informed decision about using valerian herb or valerian capsules . Comments : 3 Comments » Tags: benefits of valerian , buy valerian , herbs valerian , side effects of valerian , sleep valerian , valarian , valerian , valerian anxiety , valerian benefits , valerian capsules , valerian dosage , valerian dose , valerian extract , valerian health , valerian herb , valerian herbal , valerian insomnia , valerian plant , valerian pregnancy , valerian roots , valerian side effects , valerian tablets , valerian tea , valerian teas , valerian tincture , valerian uses Categories : Valuable Valerian Herb Great Medicinal Benefits Of Agrimony 11 05 2009 Agrimony is a useful herb that is merited with remarkable all-round healing and curative powers. As an invaluable panacea and tonic, agrimony is acclaimed throughout the history of herbal remedies right from ancient times. There is another name for agrimony called Egrimoyne and the rural population used it for healing wounds, bites and warts. Agrimony is a powerful medicinal herb Agrimony is used prevalently to soothe the eye irritations and other eye ailments. It is rich in flavonoids and in addition to this contains about five percent of tannin, which is useful in making the cottage medicines for treating slow healing ulcers and wounds. The tannin content also enables this herb to be used as a gargle, which, helps in the treatment of sore throats. Agrimony reduces the inflammation and contracts organic tissues. It is also diuretic and thereby increases urinating frequency and clears the toxins. This important action revitalizes the organs. This herb has the potential for conditioning the blood for persons suffering from anemia. Bach Flower Essences Flower Essence – Agrimony, 20 ml Agrimony herb acts as a good medicine to treat gastrointestinal conditions such as indigestion, mucous colitis, diarrhea, irritable bowel and sluggish stomach conditions. It also takes care of the assimilation of food. Pregnant women and nursing mothers should avoid using the herb as it may affect the menstrual cycle. Agrimony is also a very helpful treatment for the skin problem. It is thought to be of assistance in the curing of skin eruptions, spots etc. and also for athletes foot. Agrimony herb has also been used against asthma and coughs. Pure-Clenz Solution to Cleanse Wounds and Facilitate Healing Contains Agrimony,Marigold, Etc., Agrimony plant bears yellow flowers with egg-shaped petals, which shoot out from the hairy stem. These flowers along with fresh or dried agrimony leaves are used to prepare an herbal tea which proffers many medicinal advantages as listed below: Agrimony Tea is used to treat cough and sore throat. This also helps to treat conjunctivitis. Agrimony Tea assists digestion and helpful in treating diarrhea. This herbal tea supports proper liver functioning and fights against viral infections. Consumption of this herbal tea may be helpful in the treatment of vaginal discharges. This herbal tea has the diuretic property to remove the wastes from the body through enhanced urine expulsion. Agrimony tea also enhances the appetite. Preparation of Agrimony Tea: One teaspoonful of agrimony flowers and leaves, preferably dried leaves, are boiled with one cup of water for fifteen minutes and cooled and strained after to make the tea. Agrimony tea can be consumed two to three times in a day as a medicinal mixture. Agrimony carries a slightly bitter taste. Conjunct-a-Clear Wash for Irritated Eyes With Agrimony & Calendula Agrimony usage may cause a dip in the blood pressure, so people taking anticoagulant drugs or those who have low blood pressure problems should not use it without appropriate medical advise. If you are allergic to the agrimony, you should stop the usage of the herb. It’s very sensitive for skin problem. It may flare up into a rash when exposed to sun. So, be attentive when you use agrimony and cease the usage if it produces any unusual side effects. Worm Dr. to Eradicate Intestinal Worms – Contains Original Agrimony Extract & Other Herbs Comments : 2 Comments » Tags: agrimonia , agrimonia eupatoria , agrimony , agrimony bach , agrimony bach flower , agrimony extract , agrimony eye , agrimony flower , agrimony herb , agrimony medicinal , agrimony plant , agrimony tea , agrimony uses , body treats agrimony , buy agrimony , treats agrimony Categories : Agrimony herb benefits Astounding Medicinal Properties Of Ash Gourd 10 05 2009 Winter Melon also known as wax gourd or ash gourd is a hairy creeper herb. It closely resembles a pumpkin, being a grey coloured big fruit (or vegetable), which has many different medicinal usages. Ash gourd or Winter melon Various studies have revealed that ash gourd or white gourd has a good amount of moisture along with a moderate composition of proteins, fibre, and carbohydrates, while the seeds contain pale yellow oil in them. Winter melon’s mineral contents are calcium, phosphorus, thiamine, iron, riboflavin and niacin. Wax gourd especially contains a fairly decent level of vitamin C. Ash gourd is a very good diet food for reducing weight and excessive unnecessary fat. Since it is low in calories, it is useful for overweight people and diabetics. It increases libido and helps in treating hysteria and paroxysms. Winter Melon Seed (Benincasa hispida; Wax gourd; Dong Gua Zi) 5:1 Extract Powder 100 gm: V Wax gourd is shredded and the juice is taken from it.  To this juice, equal amount of water is added to prepare a liquid. This prepared liquid is generally consumed in the morning on an empty stomach to cure peptic ulcers. A measure of about 200 ml is the suggested level of intake for such a prepared ash gourd juice mixture. Any other food should not be taken for the next three hours after taking this juice to obtain a good result in curing peptic ulcers. Winter melon vegetable is a blood coagulant. Its fresh juice is mixed with a teaspoon of amla (Indian gooseberry) juice or lime juice to be used for arresting the bleeding from the nose, the lungs, due to piles and haematuria, a disease caused by the presence of blood cells in the urine. For a non-diabetic but underweight person, this herb is useful to increase the weight. While this may sound contradictory to my earlier claim of winter melon helping overweight people lose weight, I assure you that this wax gourd is capable of bringing about both these contrasting changes. Winter Melon Peel (Benincasa hispida; Wax gourd; Dong Gua Pi) Cut & Sifted: 1 lb: V The flesh of this vegetable, after removing the seeds, has to be boiled in water for 15 minutes and then cooled. Then the pieces are mixed with sugar and heated again till sugar dissolves to become a sticky content. This is then allowed this to cool down to get sweetened ash gourd pieces, which have the amazing potential to help regain the lost weight in the case of underweight people, especially those suffering from tuberculosis. The above prepared ash gourd pieces can also be consumed to bring down the body heat, sparseness of semen and when suffering from anaemia. When husked seeds of winter melon are mixed with coconut milk and consumed, it removes tapeworm and any other similar worms or infections from the intestines. The skin and seeds of ash gourd are boiled with coconut oil and this oil content is then applied on the head & scalp as it helps to promote the hair growth while averting the presence dandruff and dry scalp problems. Winter Melon Seed (Benincasa hispida; Wax gourd; Dong Gua Zi) 500 gm (1.17 lb): V Ash gourd is primarily utilized in culinary activities. It has powerful diuretic characteristics, which act to increase the urination frequency and thereby to remove all the wastes and toxins from the body. Comments : Leave a Comment » Tags: ash gourd , ash gourd juice , wax gourd , wax gourd drink , white gourd , white gourd drink , white gourd juice , winter mellon , winter melon , winter melon health , winter melon juice , winter melon nutrition , winter melon seed , winter melon seeds Categories : Ash gourd medicinal uses « Previous Entries Subscribe To My Feed RSS Feed For Posts Pages About Nature As Medicine Disclaimer Recent Comments capt. MRC on About Nature As Medicine free download BRRip … on Cool Coriander Herb With Infin… support on Great Medicinal Benefits Of… aruna on Valuable Curative Features Of … Debra on Gymnema Sylvestre – A Po… Top Posts Priceless Pennywort Plant - A Phenomenal Brain Food About Nature As Medicine Are Turmeric Capsules Any Good? Find Out Now!!! Solanum Torvum or Turkey Berry, A Special Medicinal Herb Keep Yourself Healthy Using Heavenly Hibiscus Plants Astounding Medicinal Properties Of Ash Gourd The Curious Case Of Holy Basil Herb Pomegranate Health Benefits - An Introduction Herbal Ashwagandha Effects And Medicinal Uses Enrich Your Health Using The Electrifying Eclipta Alba Plant Categories "Miracle Fruit" Healthy Pineapple Aegle marmelos plant Agrimony herb benefits Almond Nuts & Almond Nutrition Aloe Vera Care Amla Fruit Aromatic Curry Leaves Asafoetida Spice Benefits Ash gourd medicinal uses Betel Leaves Bitter melon plant & fruit Black Nightshade or Solanum Nigrum Plant Black Pepper Plant Benefits Blessed Banana Fruit Celery Plant Benefits Cool Coriander Herb Nourishment Cucumber Benefits Cumin Seeds Medicinal Values Eclipta alba plant Fenugreek Herb Health Care Garcinia Indica – Kokum Fruit Benefits Garlic Medication Ginger Herb Uses Gymnema Sylvestre – An Anti-Diabetic Herb Healing & Stinging Nettle herb Henna Plant & Henna Leaves Hibiscus Plants & Flowers Holy Basil Health Benefits Impressive Alfalfa Herb Juniper essential oil Lemons & Lemon Juice Liquorice root benefits Marigold plant benefits Medicinal Chamomile Flowers Mint Herb Benefits Moringa Oleifera Miracle Tree Natural Pesticide & Organic Gardening Neem Care Organic Coconut Oil Organic Tea Papaya Fruit pennywort herbal plant or gotu kola herb Plantain herb or Plantago Major Benefits Pomegranate Benefits Refreshing Vetiver root oil Sesame Oil Health Care Sesbania Grandiflora Plant Solanum Torvum Uses Solanum xanthocarpum or Yellow berried Nightshade Therapeutic Thyme Herb Turmeric Health Benefits Facts Uncategorized Valuable Valerian Herb Winter cherry or Ashwagandha Herb Tags almond oil aloe skin aloe skin care Aloe vera benefits Aloe Vera Care Anti Aging Antioxidants ayurvedic skin care benefits of coconut oil coconut oil benefits Dandruff digestion problems Digestive disorders Dry & Itchy scalp Ginger benefits Ginger Health Benefits Ginger products Ginger root Hair care holy basil benefits holy basil extract holy basil extracts holy basil herb holy basil leaves natural pesticide natural remedies Nature as Medicine Neem extract Neem leaf Neem Oil Neem Shampoo Organic Coconut Oil organic ginger tea organic living organic natural skin care Organic Tea Papain Papaya Nutrients papaya plant Pomegranate Benefits Pomegranate juice Pomegranate Seeds treat indigestion tulsi extracts vitamin-C Recent Posts Gymnema Sylvestre – A Potent Anti-Diabetic Herb The Importance of Liquorice Herb (Glycyrrhiza glabra) Herbal Ashwagandha Effects And Medicinal Uses Keep Yourself Healthy Using Heavenly Hibiscus Plants Pamper Your Health With Pot Marigold Medicinal Powers Blogroll WordPress.com WordPress.org Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.com Blogupp Blog Links Top Stories Best Directory -  Submit your Website blog directory FeedCat: RSS Feed and Atom Feed Boosting Engine May 2009 M T W T F S S « Apr Jun » 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Archives Select Month July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 Blog at WordPress.com . Theme: Freshy by Jide . Follow Follow “Nature As Medicine” Get ever