Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

aloe Aloe
Vera Part
4 What
we have looked at so far is Aloe Vera and its application as a gel rather than
the latex. In this issue, we will be looking at both forms with a closer look at
its internal use for problems of the intestines, diabetes, and immune system. As
you have read, Aloes in one form or another is the commonest domestic medicine
and is the basis of most proprietary or so-called 'patent' pills. Aloe
gel (mucilage) is used both externally and internally for its wound-healing
properties and as a general tonic or cure-all. This is the aloe product commonly
incorporated in a wide variety of non-laxative drug and cosmetic products. Aloe
latex or juice, usually in its dried form, is employed as a potent cathartic. We have mentioned before
the problem identified with the mechanical separation processes employed being
not completely effective on occasion. As
such, aloe gel is sometimes contaminated with aloe latex, thus inducing an
unwanted laxative effect following consumption of the so-called gel. There are
also different types that you will come across with Curacoa and Socotrine Aloe
being the more common used in Aloe Latex. There is little to choose medicinally between the Curacoa and
Socotrine varieties, but the former is somewhat more powerful, 2 grains of
Curacoa Aloes being equal to 3 grains of Socotrine Aloes in purgative action.
The latter is more expensive, but varies much in quality. That established, let’s look at the applications. Diabetes Evidence
from two human trials suggests that aloe gel can improve blood sugar control in
individuals with type 2 Diabetes (mature onset) ( http://healthinfo.healthgate.com ): a single-blind,
placebo-controlled trial evaluated the potential benefits of aloe in either 72
or 40 individuals with diabetes (the study report appears to contradict itself).
The results showed significantly greater improvements in blood sugar levels
among those given aloe over the 2-week treatment period. The other single-blind,
placebo-controlled trial evaluated the benefits of aloe in individuals who had
failed to respond to the oral diabetes drug Glibenclamide ™.Of the 36
individuals who completed the study, those taking Glibenclamide and aloe showed
definite improvements in blood sugar levels over 42 days as compared to those
taking Glibenclamide and placebo ( http://healthinfo.healthgate.com ). A further controlled
clinical study involved seventy-seven volunteers who were administered one
tablespoonful of aloe juice, or placebo, twice a day for up to forty-two days. A
significant reduction in blood sugar and triglyceride levels was observed in the
treatment group (http://www.herbs2000.com/herbs/herbs_aloe_vera.htm). Although
these are promising results, large studies that are double- rather than
single-blind will be needed to establish aloe as an effective and safe treatment
for hypoglycaemia. ( http://healthinfo.healthgate.com ). Never the less ,
it seems possible that the herb may prove to be a useful addition to the diet,
exercise, and medication program for type 2 diabetics. Constipation As we have established,
Aloe juice (also known as aloe latex or aloe sap) is a yellow, bitter liquid
derived from the outer layer of the aloe leaf. The bitter yellow latex beneath the Aloe's outer skin contains an
anthraquinone, barbaloin, which is used for chronic constipation with bowel
atony. It is the 1,8-dihydroxyanthracene derivatives such as barbaloin, which
have a laxative effect. As glycosides, they are not absorbed in the upper gut
but break down to the active aglycone in the colon and rectum having been
activated by the intestinal flora in the lower bowel. Laxatives containing
anthranoids induce active secretion of water and electrolytes into the lumen of
the gut and inhibit the absorption of electrolytes and water by the colon. The
increased volume of contents of the colon activates peristalsis. They
cause the colon to contract, generally producing a bowel movement 8 - 12 hours
after consumption. The whole plant or at least the area with the bitter yellow latex is used for
this condition. One study of 35 men
and women with constipation, those who received capsules containing aloe latex,
and other laxatives including psyllium (a natural substance high in fibre)
experienced softer and more frequent stools compared to those who received
placebo. Although aloe latex is a
powerful laxative, it is not used frequently because it can cause painful
cramping. Other gentler, herbal laxatives from the same plant family as aloe
(such as cascara and senna) are generally recommended first. It
is generally used in powder or pill form when taken for a purgative because of
its nauseating taste. It should be combined with carminative and antispasmodic
herbs for best results to help with the symptoms of cramp and griping known to
be a side effect in medicinal doses. Something like chamomile or peppermint
would be ideal. When using this herb for constipation, it should be cautioned
that over dosage could result in diarrhoea, gastritis and nephritis. At
low doses, the bitter properties of the herb stimulate the digestion. Laxative
preparations, if used for more than ten consecutive days, can aggravate
constipation and cause dependency. Constipation that does not resolve within a
few days of use of laxatives may require medical attention. It
is used for pain relief and healing of haemorrhoids, applied externally and
internally though some sources say that this is a contra-indication as laxatives
can bring about haemorrhoids. In
Germany, concentrated extracts of dried aloe leaves are used as laxatives Intestinal Disease The protective and healing effect of
aloe vera gel also works internally. As we have already discussed, aloe works on
epithelium and the intestines and mucous membrane are epithelium. The gel is
suggested for peptic ulcers and irritable bowel syndrome. Again, many sources
suggest that this is a contra-indication and should not be used for this purpose
though the caution is applied to latex rather than gel. Another reason is
probably because of the risk of misdiagnosis such as perforation, obstruction or
appendicitis or the risk of contaminated gel with aloe latex that could cause
deterioration (See contradictions below) However, here is how it has been used
and the research on it: Aloe Vera gel is reactive. It serves as a biochemical
"bandage" and is protectively helpful in restraining aggravating
irritants from reaching the sensitive ulcer. In the stomach, aloe vera gel acts as an alterative, inhibiting
pepsin production when the stomach is empty, and stimulating pepsin release in
the presence of food. Aloe gel also inhibits the release of hydrochloric acid
(increasing pH by an average of 1.88) by interfering with the binding of
histamine to the parietal cells, and could therefore be used in cases of
hyperacidity. Additionally, aloe gel is a good demulcent for protecting
sensitive mucous membranes and ulcers from irritants. This combined is why it is
useful in cases of peptic ulcers and irritable bowel conditions. Interestingly,
the gel has been shown to 'slow' gastric emptying, possibly leading to improved
digestion. Along a similar theme, aloe gel has demonstrated the enhancement of
protein digestion and assimilation and an associated reduced bacterial
putrefaction from malabsorption. ( http://www.doctorphyto.com/.. )The Aloe Vera gel also
acts as a mild laxative, and since most peptic ulcer patients are also
constipated, it helps this condition as well. Tests conducted on ulcer patients
in Florida in 1962, as reported in the Journal A.O.A., Vol. 62, April 1963,
showed that the clinical administration of Aloe Vera gel emulsion resulted in
permanent relief for 94% of ulcer patients who had had the condition for an
extended period of time. In one clinical study, suffers of peptic ulcers
demonstrated complete recovery by taking a daily dose of the gel. Aloe vera gel exhibits antifungal effects. In clinical studies,
subjects with Candida albicans had a reduction in the number of yeast colonies
in stool cultures ( http://www.doctorphyto.com/.. ). This is another reason
that it may well be an important choice as many people who suffer with IBS have
this condition and it is Candida that causes the problem. Rather than hitting
the drug route for treating this fungus, a natural alternative without the
restrictions and side effects is available. Combined with acidophilus it could
see a reduction in the symptoms of people who have these conditions. While most of these
conclusions are based on animal models, a recent human clinical study showed
that both vitamin C and E bioavailability is increased by as much as 300% when
taken with aloe instead of water. No other matrix is known to increase the
bioavailability of both water and fat-soluble vitamins. Contraindications Here
comes the bad news some of which you will already have seen in part 1. Many
sources including W.H.O. state that as with other stimulant laxatives, products
containing Aloe should not be used in patients with intestinal obstruction or
stenosis, atony, severe dehydration with electrolyte depletion, or chronic
constipation. Aloe should not be administered to patients with inflammatory
intestinal diseases, such as appendicitis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative
colitis, irritable bowel syndrome, or diverticulitis, or to children under 10
years of age. Aloe is also contraindicated in patients with cramps, colic,
hemorrhoids, nephritis, or any undiagnosed abdominal symptoms such as pain,
nausea, or vomiting. Although this is pertinent to Aloe juice as in the latex
rather than gel, it must be considered that of there is any possibility that the
aloe gel is contaminated with latex then caution should be used. All what you have read so
far certainly merits further exploration into this herb. But it doesn’t stop
there! Immune System and
Cancer Therapy Studies
in test tubes and animals suggest that active substances in aloe leaf extracts
(which contain both aloe gel and aloe latex) may have immunostimulant and
anti-cancer effects. Researchers
at Tokyo Women's Medical College in Japan have shown that certain lectins (a
type of protein) in aloe gel may stimulate the immune system to increase
production of killer cells, or naturally occurring lymphocytes that kill
bacteria and tumor cells. Other studies in Japan and the Netherlands suggest
that constituents in aloe gel can enhance the workings of the immune system by
containing the killer cells' lethal chemicals, preventing them from damaging
healthy, functional cells. A
research group at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio
is studying the effects of aloe extracts on normal and tumor cells in humans. ( Steven
Foster: http://www.healthy.net/.. ).
Further, Aloe Vera juice protective effect was confirmed in a study of 673
lung cancer patients in Okinawa, Japan, published in the Japanese Journal of
Cancer Research. This survey looked at the connection between smoking,
comparative amounts of 17 plant foods in the diet, and the occurrence of lung
cancer over a five-year period. Aloe Vera was the only one of the plant
foods that was protective against cancer. "The results of plant
epidemiology suggests that aloe Vera juice prevents human pulmonary
carcinogenesis [lung cancer]," stated the researchers. Further, aloe is
"widely preventive or suppressive against various human cancers." ( http://www.absoluteslimming.com/... ).
So what is it that appears to be the reason for these findings? Aloctin
A, a constituent of aloe, has immune stimulating properties and anti-tumor
activity. Aloe has also shown activity as an antiviral, antidiabetic and
immunomodulatory. One of aloe's constituents, emodin, has been shown to possess
anticancer, antibacterial, diuretic, immunosuppressive, and vasorelaxant
activities in research with animals. This
information has inspired the production of a substance for people with cancer
combining aloe leaf, honey, and gin. However, studies of the use of this
substance in people are lacking and, therefore, the safety and effectiveness of
this substance is not known. Aloe-emodin is reported
to have anti-cancer activity in vitro . However, as you will have seen in
the cautions in part 1, emodin is thought to possibly be mutagenic . While
chronic abuse of anthranoid-containing laxatives was hypothesized to play a role
in colorectal cancer, no causal relationship between anthranoid laxative abuse
and colorectal cancer has been demonstrated. In vitro (gene mutation and
chromosome aberration tests) and in vivo (micro-nucleus test in murine
bone marrow) genotoxicity studies, as well as human and animal pharmacokinetic
data, indicate no genotoxic risk from Cape Aloe (WHO). A polysaccharide present in aloe called
Acemannan has exciting antiviral and anti-retroviral and immunopotentiating
effects such as inhibiting glycosylation of viral glycoproteins, enhancement of
macrophage activity, immune system potentiators, T-cell function, and interferon
production. Acemannan is now approved for veterinary use in fibrosarcomas
and feline leukemia (a retro-virus), and in preliminary human and in vitro
studies, as a synergistic enhancement to the drug azidothymidine (AZT) or
Acyclovir to inhibit the replication of HIV and herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1).
It appears that acemannon neutralizes the [AIDS] virus by transforming its
protein envelope, thus preventing it from attaching itself to the T4 cells. ( http://www.holisticbirds.com/.. ; http://www.doctorphyto.com/.. .). Sarcoma  
research is also promising. Aloe
is in its infancy as far as cancer research goes although the medical profession
are taking an active interest in researching this herb for this purpose Although we
can not say whether it will become the new treatment for cancer, such
experiments provide more information on how aloe gel heals wounds and burns. As
seen in the last section, use of aloe may enhance the effectiveness of some
medications used to treat the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), but
well-designed research trials are needed to confirm these findings. Still it
offers hope for those fighting this battle for a treatment for these conditions. One
Arkansas physician applied it to relieve the symptoms of poison ivy
(http:www.herbs2000.com). Parents
have sometimes applied Aloe gel to the fingertips of children who bite their
nails in order to get them to break the habit. From
all that you have read, I think you will agree that Aloe Vera should have a
prominent place in the treatment of skin conditions. As with all medical
conditions, please treat only the minor cases yourself and refer to a qualified
practitioner or your doctor for more severe cases to discuss the treatment with
them. In
the next part, we will be discussing the treatment of more epithelial areas but
this time of the digestive tract, endocrine and immunology conditions. I hope
you find this research useful, if for no other reason that using it to support
your argument for considerin