Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Smoothie Sunburn home | faq | advertising | Internet Marketing Tactics | contact New: Cheating Spouses Acid Reflux Broadband Internet Cerebral Palsy Computer Forensics CRM Debt Consolidation Drug Rehabilitation Email Marketing Forex Trading Hair Removal Heartburn Treatment Identity Theft Liposuction Medical Alerts Network Storage Online Degrees Payday Advances Prostate Cancer Royal Caribbean Stock Trading Tooth Whitening Dentures Ankle Bands Protein Shakes Banks Cafe World City of Wonder Cityville Frontierville Mafia Wars Pet Society Treasure Isle Final Fantasy World of Warcraft Starcraft 2 Game Testing Cholesterol Fertility Coldsores Premenstrual Tension Burns Allergic Reactions internet marketing tactics Menu: What To Apply To Treat Burns Vitamins A And D To Help With Healing A Burn How To Treat A Bacon Grease Burn What To Do At Home If You Burn Yourself Use Of Potato In Burn Healing What 3 Things Do You Want To Accomplish When Treating A Burn Applying Colgate In Burn Skin Vitamins For Healing Burns Egg Whites Help Heal The Body Egg On Burns Is It True Egg Whites Help Heal Burns Does Egg White Work For Burns Egg White For Burn Treatment Eggwhite And Burns How Do Egg Whites Help Burns Treating Burns With Eggwhite True Can Honey Be Used On Grease Burn Skin Egg Whites Help Heal Burns Egg White May Be Good For Burn Treatment Egg Whites For Treating Burns 0h Vinger And Sunburns Use Egg White For Skin Burn Burn Treatment White Egg When We Heal Your Sunburn Egg White Treatment Burns Skin Burns And Egg White Egg White For Burns Is It True You Can Treat A Burn With Eggwhite Egg Whites Treatment Burns Privacy Policy Smoothie Sunburn Burns Click here for Satellite TV software for your PC *NEW* It doesn't matter what it is that we do to ourselves, there is always something in nature that is going to be able to help us to overcome the difficulty. A good example of this is if we happen to burn ourselves, either by touching something that is hot or even perhaps because we expose ourselves a little bit too much to the sun. Whenever we find ourselves in this situation, one thing that we may want to apply to the area is honey. Not just any honey will do, however, and it is important for you to make sure that you have some on hand just in case a burn should happen to take place. The type of honey that you are going to need is raw, unfiltered and perhaps even medical honey. Most of the time, you will be able to find local honey at a health food store or you can purchase it directly from the farmer where the bees are kept. You simply apply it to the area, making sure to overlap onto the skin is not affected by the burn. Apply a bandage to the area in order to cover it and allow it to do its work. For larger burn areas, such as a sunburn, it may not be convenient for you to put that much honey onto the area. If that is the case, you may want to try thinning out the honey with either some water or perhaps some lavender oil or apple cider vinegar. These also have healing properties that are able to take care of a burn and you may find that you heal much easier whenever these are used as well. Try to keep the honey on for as long as possible before rinsing it off with a cool shower or cold compress. Not only does honey help to soothe the area and to begin the pain reduction that is necessary to overcome the problem, it also has antimicrobial and antibacterial properties, which is important for more difficult burns. There may also be other things that you can put on the area which will assist in taking the burn out as well. Aloe Vera is one, and some people make a spray out of apple cider vinegar and water in order to apply the larger burn areas, such as a large sunburn. When used in conjunction with honey, these can help you to overcome the burn naturally. Please use the form below to comment on this page: Name: Email Address: (kept private) Comments: Let me know if my message is replied to: yes Please enter the digits 513 in the box. This keeps away spam robots: 72.249.143.219 0 requests per min