Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://www.msdh.ms.gov/msdhsite/_static/42,0,151,76.html
Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 19:40:58 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "a8f99c880cd1:20f7"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 05:50:05 GMT
Connection: close

Questions & Answers - Mississippi State Department of Health NEWS & EVENTS CALENDARS PUBLICATIONS HEALTH TOOLKITS INFORMATION DESK SEARCH HOME » Home Administrative Disease Control EMS EMSC Family and Adults News & Events Other Health Programs Preventive Health Publications Records & Statistics Regulation & Licensure Services & Programs Trauma System Women and Children Family and Adults Dental and Oral Health Dental Sealants Fluoride Programs Fluoride Topics Healthy Smile Contest Make a Child's Smile MOHCA Questions & Answers Reports ROHCs Teaching Tools Training Questions and Answers: Dental Services and Dental Care Prevention What is fluoride? Fluoride is a naturally-occurring element in water that deters bacterial growth and
      improves the structure of tooth enamel to make it more resistant to decay, especially
      in young children. Why should my water be fluoridated? The amount of natural fluoride in water varies widely from community
      to community.  Some water needs no additional fluoridation to be effective against tooth decay.
      In areas with low or no fluoride concentrations, extra fluoridation helps give the water
      the same benefit of cavity prevention that other areas enjoy. What if my water system does not have a water fluoridation program? Ask your child's physician or dentist about receiving supplements for children through 8 years of age. What is a dental sealant? A dental sealant is a plastic material that is applied to the chewing surface of the back teeth.
      The sealant offers a mechanical barrier between the tooth enamel and germs that cause tooth decay.
      Placing sealants is painless and simple, and requires no drilling. Medicaid How can I locate a dentist that accepts Medicaid? The Mississippi Division of Medicaid has a provider locator on their web site.  Select a provider type of "Dentist" and specify the county you live in to find providers near you. Visit the Medicaid provider page » Am I eligible for Medicaid? Find out by contacting the state's Medicaid Division at (601) 359-6050 , or View Medicaid Eligibility Guidelines » (PDF) . Dentists and Dental Care How can I find a dentist in my area? The Mississippi State Board of Dental Examiners' web site lets you look up licensed dentists by city, county, or specialty. Find a licensed dentist » How can I get low-cost dental care in Mississippi? Donated Dental Services The Mississippi Dental Association's Donated Dental Services (DDS) Program provides free,
         comprehensive dental care for elderly, disabled, and ill adults through volunteer dental providers.
         Contact the MS Program Coordinator at 601-368-9823 for information, or download an application: Donated Dental Service application » Mission First Mission First, Inc. is a non-profit ministry that supports the Medical and Dental Clinic at the
         West Park Community Ministry Center.  The clinic is at 275 Rose Neath St. in Jackson.
         Contact the Dental Program at 601-608-0050 for eligibility information, or read about them on-line. Visit the Mission First website » Community Health Centers Community Health Centers (CHCs) are not-for-profit clinics operated by the Mississippi Primary Health Care Association that offer
         dental services to all community residents, regardless of income or insurance.
         CHCs charge a reduced fee based on a person's income and family size. List of Community Health Centers in Mississippi » You can also contact the Mississippi Primary Health Care Association at 601-981-1817 . UMC School of Dentistry The School of Dentistry at University of Mississippi Medical Center provides low-cost dental treatment through several programs.
         Contact the School of Dentistry at 601-984-6080 . email this page print this page Resource Sheet: Find a Dentist in Your Community [1MB] To view/print pdf documentati