<http://wp.me/piR1W-e7K>; rel=shortlink
X-nananana: Batcache

Exercise a Defense Against Dementia: Study - Health News - Health.com Vote! Which DVD do you prefer? Enter Our Sweepstakes Health News From Health Magazine Eva Longoria's Happy-Life Secrets 8 Ways to Simplify Your Life The Top Fat-Burning Foods 5 New Classes to You Get Fit Home Health A-Z Alzheimer's Disease Asthma Bipolar Disorder Birth Control Breast Cancer Childhood Vaccines Cholesterol Chronic Pain Cold, Flu, and Sinus COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Diabetes (Type 2) Fibromyalgia GERD Gout Incontinence Menopause Menstruation Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sexual Health Sleep Disorders Ulcerative Colitis More Conditions Healthy Living News Beauty Celebrities Family Fitness Home and Travel Mind and Body Money Sex and Relationships Fitness Blog Weight Loss Diets Dieting Tips Weight Loss Blog Eating Cooking Nutrition Restaurants Healthy Eating Blog Recipes Cold + Flu Prevention Home >> Healthy Living >> Fitness >> Exercise a Defense Against Dementia: Study Fitness Home Cardio Strength Yoga News Features Blogs Community Health.com Guide to Fitness Get Fit With Cardio Workout Routines Stay in Shape With Muscle-Building Strength Routines Fitness Gear for Every Sport Stretches to Improve Posture and Flexibility Advertisements WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Health's Top Stories Get a weekly look at the most popular stories on Health.com. See All Newsletters Recipe Finder Exercise a Defense Against Dementia: Study February 13, 2012 Email Print Share MONDAY, Feb. 13 (HealthDay News) — Here’s another reason to get into shape: Physical activity may reduce the risk of dementia-related death, according to a new study. Researchers assessed the health of more than 45,000 men and nearly 15,000 women, ages 20 to 88 years, in the United States and grouped them into one of three fitness categories — low, middle or high. After an average follow-up of 17 years, about 4,050 participants died. Of those deaths, 164 were attributed to dementia (72 vascular dementia and 92 Alzheimer’s disease). Of those 164 deaths, 123 of the people were in the low-fitness group, 23 were in the middle-fitness group, and 18 were in the high-fitness group. People in the high- and medium-fitness groups had less than half the risk of dying as those in the low-fitness group, the researchers concluded. The study appears in the February issue of the journal Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise . “These findings support physical-activity promotion campaigns by organizations such as the Alzheimer’s Association and should encourage individuals to be physically active,” study author Riu Liu said in a journal news release. “Following the current physical-activity recommendations from the American College of Sports Medicine will keep most individuals out of the low-fit category and may reduce their risk of dying with dementia,” Liu added. Liu conducted the study as part of her dissertation at the University of South Carolina. She is now a postdoctoral fellow at the U.S. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. While deaths in the United States associated with heart disease, breast cancer and stroke have declined in recent years, deaths related to dementia and Alzheimer’s rose 46 percent between 2002 and 2006, according to the release. The study doesn’t prove that exercise will prevent dementia, however. Other factors may also come into play. More information The U.S. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has more about dementia . – Robert Preidt SOURCE: Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise , news release, Feb. 7, 2012 Last Updated:  Feb. 13, 2012 Copyright © 2012 HealthDay . All rights reserved. Twitter Facebook Most Popular Stories From Health.com: How to Sick-Proof Your Winter Get Headaches? Smart Ways to Deal The 50 Fattiest Foods in the States Text Size: WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Health's Top Stories Get a weekly look at the most popular stories on Health.com. See All Newsletters Advertisement Popular Stories in Fitness 30-Minute Workout, No Gym Required Best New Running Gear What's Your Diet and Fitness IQ? 5 Minutes to Better Sex View all Fitness Articles Get Fit, Feel Fab Workout Moves for a Gorgeous Body Back Fat Be Gone Stretch for a More Flexible You Fight Cellulite Fast Your Best Body: Get Gorgeous Arms Advertisement Close Social Web E-mail Facebook Digg StumbleUpon del.icio.us reddit BlinkList Newsvine Furl Tailrank Ma.gnolia E-mail It To Addresses (up to 5): Your Name: Your Address: Health A-Z Healthy Living Weight Loss Eating Recipes Health.com Health A-Z Healthy Living Weight Loss Eating Recipes Health News Inside Health Magazine Sweepstakes Site Map About Us Contact Us Free Newsletters Help Advertise with Health.com Advertise with Health Magazine Health Buzz Health Magazine Customer Service Subscribe Tablet Edition Give a Gift Renew Your Subscription Stay Connected to Health.com Sign Up for Newsletters Become a Fan of Health Get Health Twitter Updates Subscribe to RSS Join Healthy Voices Copyright © 2012 Health Media Ventures, Inc. All rights reserved. The material in this site is intended to be of general informational use and is not intended to constitute medical advice, probable diagnosis, or recommended treatments. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for mo