
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 06:13:14 GMT
Server: LiteSpeed
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://antiflumedicine.com/xmlrpc.php
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

All about flu All about flu Home | Allergies are not an obstacle to vaccination | Antioxidants | Antiviral drugs | Aspirin-killer: the dose is very important | Bronchitis | Chickenpox | Complications and consequences of flu | Contact | Cough | Defect of thyroid gland | Fervescence at children | Flu pregnant - Schizophrenia Child | Flu preventive maintenance: a diet | Flu symptoms | Flu-like symptoms | Infection of Tomorrow | Influenza virus helps defeat cancer | Migraines treatment | New human influenza viruses | Origin and features of influenza | Otitis media | Parainfluenza | Probiotic yoghurts still useful! | Scarlet fever | Sinusitis | Swine flu | Treatment of influenza | Vaccination against influenza the harm or benefit | Vaccination of influenza | Vaccination of pregnant women New human influenza viruses Pneumonia Pneumonia especially hard proceeds in young children who are not fully developed immune system. For these children, some types of pneumonia can be deadly. The main cause of pneumonia or pneumonia in children is infection. The causative agent of pneumonia may be streptococci, staphylococci, pneumococci and other bacteria. In recent years increasingly become a cause of pneumonia Chlamydia, parasites, fungi and viruses. Pneumonia caused by one or another agent, have their own characteristics. Lobar pneumonia affects children of all ages, but most often preschool and school age, occurs mainly in spring and early summer. Cause of different types of pneumococci, striking at the same time share a whole lung. The disease begins acutely, usually with a slightly pronounced inflammation of the throat, chills, fever, and headache. Initially, the cough is usually weak, dry, but gradually it becomes wet, difficult expectoration. Lobar pneumonia usually is beneficial, and ends in recovery. Acute staphylococcal pneumonia is one of the most common forms of pneumonia in infancy, especially during the first six months of life. Children are sick more often immunocompromised: premature, low weight, had undergone a variety of infections, suffering from various chronic diseases. The disease is characterized by severe, especially in children, the first three months of life. Duration of illness varies, but often it is delayed. In most cases the disease ends happily, however, staphylococcal pneumonia is still one of the causes of child mortality. Acute viral pneumonia is pneumonia pathogens which are different viruses. The child has a fever, a dry irritating cough, or with a scanty amount of sputum, sometimes bloody. Respiratory disorders may be expressed in varying degrees. Flows, such pneumonia is usually benign and rarely gives complications. Chronic pneumonia usually occurs after not cured acute pneumonia, occurs fairly often, especially at school age. In the early stages of chronic pneumonia is difficult to distinguish from chronic bronchitis or prolonged severe pneumonia. The disease is different in waves, the phase of exacerbation and attenuation processes alternate, but sometimes there is a continuous progressive course.                                                                                                                                        In the treatment of pneumonia antibiotics play a pivotal role to be assigned in accordance with sensitivity to them infective. Also prescribed drugs, strengthen immunity, enhance bronchial tubes, reducing the viscosity of mucus, expectorants. Cough Cough – one of the most common problems in children, and sometimes difficult to treat cough. Cough, as a rule, subject to minor children. Cough in children may be caused by various factors, including infections (such as viral and bacterial), irritation of the upper respiratory tract infection (due to exposure to cold air smoke inhalation of a foreign body), allergies, asthma and psychological factors (so-called “cough out of habit”). The nature of cough in children and any related symptoms vary depending on the cause of cough. Thus, cough caused by colds, usually wet, sometimes with mucus. Colds often cough is worse at night, because when a child falls, the mucus from the back of the nose and mouth enters the windpipe and interfere with normal breathing. Such a cough may persist for six weeks after the disappearance of all the other cold symptoms. Asthmatic cough is worse at night and the origin after exercise. Your child has wheezing and shortness of breath, shortness of breath. A sudden cough with wheezing that occurs after the onset of asthma may indicate that inhalation of the child of foreign objects. If the child had a bad cold, which appeared after long and debilitating bouts of whooping cough, he may be ill with pertussis (acute infection). Children less than twelve months of cough associated with shortness of breath may be caused by bronchiolitis (acute inflammation of the bronchioles, a severe form of acute bronchitis). Adolescents and older children cough can turn into a habit. Most often occurs after colds the cough does not need specific treatment. In this case, the majority of children do not need antibiotics, because the initial infection was caused by a virus, and antibiotics kill only bacteria. Most likely, this cough is caused by prolonged irritation of the respiratory tract, rather than current infection. If the cough is caused by a child with asthma, prescribed medication, depending on the nature and extent of symptoms and age of the child. Usually catarrhal cough goes away by itself over time, regardless of treatment or lack thereof. Categories Antibiotics Influenza Your Health Recent Posts Seasonal influenza Swine flu Flu and Pregnancy Tips and Tricks Flu and Pregnancy vaccination and prophylaxis Anti-epidemic measures Pages Allergies are not an obstacle to vaccination Antioxidants Antiviral drugs Aspirin-killer: the dose is very important Bronchitis Chickenpox Complications and consequences of flu Contact Cough Defect of thyroid gland Fervescence at children Flu pregnant – Schizophrenia Child Flu preventive maintenance: a diet Flu symptoms Flu-like symptoms Infection of Tomorrow Influenza virus helps defeat cancer Migraines treatment New human influenza viruses Origin and features of influenza Otitis media Parainfluenza Probiotic yoghurts still useful! Scarlet fever Sinusitis Swine flu Treatment of influenza Vaccination against influenza the harm or benefit Vaccination of influenza Vaccination of pregnant women Our Friends лучший анонимайзер вконтакте ... You will only need to complete a online payday loans form with basic personal data employment. ... 