
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 18:07:53 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.trucomfort.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

admin | TruComfort - Part 4 Author Archive 20 Amazing Facts about Your Back! Friday, April 16th, 2010 | Author: admin It’s one of the most important structures of your body, but there are many fascinating facts about your back and spinal column that most of us are unaware of. Read on to discover our top 20 facts about your back! 1.The spinal column is generally thought to consist of the series of vertebrae forming the skeleton along the back – it houses the spinal cord, spinal discs, muscles, ligaments and nerves. 2. The spinal column has several very important functions – it supports the body’s weight, provides flexibility for movement, protects nerve roots and fibers and forms a protective surrounding for the spinal cord – the main pathway of communication between the brain and the rest of the body. 3.Both giraffes and humans have seven vertebrae in their necks. 4.The first set of vertebrae (the cervical vertebrae found in the neck) are also called the Atlas. Atlas is a character from Greek mythology who, after losing a fight, was turned to stone and had to carry the weight of the Earth and the Heavens on his shoulders. The cervical vertebrae were also given this name as they carry the weight of the head. 5.As babies, we have 33 vertebrae but as adults we end up with 26. What happens to the nine remaining bones? Four of them will fuse to make our tailbone and five fuse to make the back of the pelvis. 6.The biggest cause of disability in the working population is attributed to spinal disorders. 7.Those suffering from back pain who do not undertake special exercises and training to strengthen and rehabilitate their deep back muscles are 22 times more likely to have a recurrence of back pain. 8.The spine contains over 120 muscles, 220 ligaments and over 100 joints. 9.One quarter of the spine’s length is made up from cartilage. 10.Since cartilage discs expand in the absence of gravity, astronauts returning from space may be 1.5 to 2 inches taller than when they left. Gravity’s effect on cartilage is also the cause of humans shrinking between a quarter of an inch and five inches every decade after the age of 40. It also means we are generally taller in the morning than at night because of the daily effect of gravity on the body. 11.Spinal discs are very strong tissues filled with a gel which helps support the spine. They allow the spine to move, too. 12.Spinal ligaments help connect the vertebrae and are important for keeping the spine stable. 13.Four out of five adults will experience some type of back pain during their lifetime. Back pain is considered the second most common location of pain experienced – headaches are considered the first. 14.The spine is so flexible it can bend far enough to form two thirds of a circle. 15.The most common cause of spinal cord injuries is vehicle accidents. 16.Lower back pain is the most common type of back pain experienced. This is because the lower back twists and bends more than any other part of the back and it also bears the weight of the upper body. 17.Sometimes back pain can be caused by other ailments in the body. Pain experienced in the middle of the back, which becomes worse after eating, may be a sign you have a stomach ulcer. And if you experience an intermittent back pain that reaches your groin, it could indicate you have kidney stones. 18.The spine is extremely strong – it can bear the pressure of hundreds of kilograms. 19.It is estimated that 80-90% of all back pain will resolve itself without treatment within 4-6 weeks. 20.Investing in a back support is one of the best ways to prevent back injuries and pain often brought about by poor posture when sitting in a chair, at a desk or while driving. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: Articles | Leave a Comment How Chiropractic Can Cure Your Back Pain! Monday, April 12th, 2010 | Author: admin What is Chiropractic? Chiropractic is an alternative form of therapy that treats many back complaints and other conditions of the body. It involves the hands-on manipulation of the spine and a combination of other alternative therapies to treat the patient’s problem. Chiropractic governs itself around three main beliefs: 1.The body has a powerful self-healing ability. 2.The body’s spine and its health are directly related to the way the body functions. 3.By manipulating the spine to restore it to its normal condition, it helps the body function correctly and also facilitates the self-healing process. Restricted movement in the spine – caused by an injury, repetitive stress or sitting for long periods without proper back support – leads to pain and reduced function in the back. The chiropractor’s goal then is to use their hands to apply a force that will relax muscles that have been shortened or are in spasm and help flex joints that have become stiff. By restoring normal spinal movement, back pain is reduced and mobility returned to the back. A chiropractor may also choose to use other alternative therapies in conjunction with their hands-on treatment. These include: -heat and ice -ultrasound -exercise -magnetic therapy -dietary supplements -counseling about diet, weight loss and other lifestyle factors -electrical stimulation -homeopathy -acupuncture What are the benefits of Chiropractic? This is considered a safe, effective treatment – especially for conditions such as acute lower back pain, sudden back injuries caused by strain, neck pain and headaches. Sufferers of osteoarthritis and fibromyalgia are also said to respond well to the moderate pressure used by chiropractors. Studies regarding chiropractic are inconclusive about its effectiveness but many patients give strong testimony to its ability to cure and provide relief from lower back pain and other back and body ailments. Are there any risks? In rare cases, treatment has made conditions to the back such as a slipped disc worse. Neck manipulation also carries with it a small chance of incurring spinal cord injury or causing a stroke. This is why it is extremely important for you to speak to your physician before you visit a chiropractor and to find a practitioner who has the correct certifications. It is also essential that a correct diagnosis of your back problem is made before seeing any alternative practitioner, and that the patient discloses a full medical history including any spinal surgeries that have been preformed. What else should I know? -In addition to chiropractors, osteopathic physicians and some physical therapists may use techniques of spinal manipulation. Speak to you physician about any specialists they might recommend. -It’s a wise idea to find a chiropractor who will agree to work with other members of your health care team to make your treatment a team effort. - All good chiropractors will offer you an initial consultation to inform you about their type of treatment, the amount of sessions you will need and to make sure you are comfortable with their techniques. It is also important that you are well informed about any risks involved so you can make an informed decision before choosing this type of therapy. Think about prevention Thankfully, most sudden back injuries resolve themselves after a few weeks. But in the meantime – before, during and after treatment for any back problems – it is essential you maintain good back health practices to promote good back health and prevent further injuries, pain and problems. Follow these 11 simple tips: 1. Try and maintain a healthy diet and weight. 2. Undertake a good exercise regime to help you stay active – consult your physician about the types of exercise you should avoid. 3. Avoid prolonged inactivity or long periods of bed rest. 4. Avoid activities that involve repetitive twisting or bending. 5. Warm up and stretch before exercising or undertaking other physical activities such as gardening. 6. Wear low-healed shoes that are comfortable. 7. Sleep on a firm mattress that will minimize your spine curving when sleeping. 8. Lift objects by bending your knees first and taking the weight on your legs, not your back. Do not twist when lifting. 9. If you smoke, give up your habit. It impairs blood flow and deprives your spinal tissue of oxygen and nutrients. 10. Always take breaks when having to sit or stand for long periods of time. 11. Make sure your work desk and home office desks are ergonomically correct. Invest in a good ergonomic seat to help you sit up straight, preventing future back problems. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: Articles , General | Leave a Comment Easy Ways to Improve Your Posture Forever! Thursday, April 08th, 2010 | Author: admin Your spine is one of the most important components of your body – injure it and you could see your whole lifestyle affected in a dramatic way. One major key to protecting your spine and back health is to pay attention to your posture and your posture habits. How you hold and move your body can either be the cause of your back problems – or the reason why you’ll avoid many common injuries. Follow these simple tips to great posture and you’ll reap from their benefits to your back health. Sitting: -  An ideal sitting position involves keeping your shoulders back and your back straight. Your neck, back and heels should be in alignment and your legs should be held at 90 degrees to your body. - Avoid the urge to slouch – this will throw your posture into an unhealthy balance. Push your bottom towards the back of your chair to help prevent you from falling into a slouch. - Invest in a good posture and back support. These will help support your back, regardless of your chair’s shape and size, and help you hold a healthy posture while sitting. - It’s never good to stay sitting for long periods of time. If you have to be at a desk or sitting down for more than an hour, try and take short breaks every 40 minutes or so. Perhaps stand up and move around your office or home or make yourself a drink, before returning to your seat. This prevents your back muscles from tiring, making you more prone to a slumped posture. - Why not try sitting on an exercise ball? These help you maintain a healthy posture while sitting – it’s hard to slouch when sitting on one! - Avoid unbalanced positions when sitting, e.g., leaning to one side, tilting the head, hunching the shoulders forward, crossing legs unevenly – these can all throw your posture off-center. - If using a computer or laptop, ensure the screen is positioned at your natural eye-line so you do not have to lift or bow your head unnaturally. Have keyboards placed so that arms rest and type in a straight line, too. Standing: - An ideal standing position involves holding your head up straight, with your chin tucked slightly in. Keep your chest forward, push your shoulder blades back and tuck your stomach in. Most of your weight should sit on the balls of your feet – not your heels or toes. Let your arms hang down naturally. - Avoid wearing high heels, especially for long periods of time, as this affects the alignment of the entire body. When Moving Around: - Use bags and backpacks that have been designed to reduce the strain placed on backs. If possible, avoid carrying large and heavy items on your back. - Many people sustain injuries to their back when lifting objects incorrectly. When picking up items from the ground, avoid using the back to lift the weight. Instead, bend your knees (instead of bending at the waist) to lower yourself and pick up the object, then allow your leg muscles to lift and carry most of the weight. In General: - Be aware of the positioning of your spine, neck and shoulders. Try to keep them aligned and avoid slouching. As a rule, you should try and hold your spine as straight as possible. - Involve yourself in a regular exercise routine which includes activities such as walking, swimming, bicycling, yoga or Pilates. These will help your body and its muscles stay active, strong and flexible, helping prevent future back injuries. Find good back exercises you can practice to help strengthen your back muscles if you wish to improve flexibility and strength (speak to your physician first if you have existing back problems). - When on the phone, avoid holding your phone using only your shoulder and neck. This might leave you hands-free but interferes with your posture and will cause neck and back pain in the future. - Learn to hold a natural and relaxed posture. Sometimes, worrying about our posture makes us tense and hold ourselves stiffly – this is also unhealthy for the back. Instead, your posture should feel naturally comfortable – not forced and uncomfortable. - If you need help correcting your poor posture habits, make use of a variety of ergonomic seats designed to help you. Don’t be afraid to place a posture and back support in the car or a footrest under your desk – they could make all the difference to your future back health. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: Articles | Leave a Comment Find Relief From Sciatica Fast! Tuesday, April 06th, 2010 | Author: admin What is Sciatica? It is commonly believed that sciatica is a single condition with a single cause. However, this is untrue. In fact, sciatica is a set of symptoms related to a variety of conditions. These conditions usually involve the compression or irritation of the sciatic nerve that runs down the lower part of the spinal chord and then continues through the lower limbs. When pain is experienced along this nerve route, it is termed a sciatic pain. Generally, the cause of the pain is related to problems with the lower spinal discs which extend beyond their normal position and aggravate the sciatic nerve, causing a radiation of pain along that same nerve. How do I find relief from my sciatic pain? Thankfully, most cases of sciatica are not serious and, with the correct management, symptoms will disappear within a few weeks. However, there is much you can do in the meantime to find relief from pain, aid healing and help prevent future back problems: 1.Exercise and physical manipulation First it is important to visit a physician to have a correct diagnosis made concerning your back problem. This is essential if you decide to undertake exercise to help your recovery as certain exercises are beneficial or detrimental according to the condition. Once it has been established, ask your physician to recommend a good physical therapist or chiropractor who will help to physically manipulate your spine and the related muscles in order to resolve your problem. Initially, your physician may ask you to undertake a couple of day’s bed rest. However, afterwards, it is important not to remain inactive as a lack of movement in the muscles will cause further weakening and lead to more injuries. In comparison, exercising promotes healthy lubrication between the spinal discs, strengthens core muscles that support the back, increases flexibility and mobility, increases circulation to back muscles and nerves, and helps speed up recuperation times of injuries. Ask your physical therapist or chiropractor to suggest good back stretching and strength exercises that can be carried out at home. Stretching will increase flexibility in the muscles, discs and ligaments related to your injury/condition, while good back strength is essential for preventing future back problems and helping to manage existing back pain. 2.Hot and cold compresses Heat compresses or packs help dilate blood vessels, which then increases the flow of oxygen and nutrients to the area, so helping it to heal. It relaxes muscles, providing some pain relief and allowing the patient to stretch the sciatic nerve which may have become compressed. It also stimulates sensory receptors, making the brain focus less on the sciatic pain. Heat treatments are best used 3 to 7 days after the start of the condition, when acute sharp pain has subsided. Cold compresses or packs can numb the area of pain or sore tissue in the back and reduce inflammation. This is a good treatment to use when the pain is at its sharpest. The cold compress can also be used to massage the area in a circular motion, gently stretching and relieving compression in the sciatic nerve. For many people, alternating between these two treatments at regular intervals provides much relief and comfort. 3.Painkillers Often the sciatic nerve becomes inflamed because of the aggravation it has received. Therefore, taking a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) can be very effective in relieving pain. These also have fewer gastrointestinal side-effects than aspirin. There are three types of NSAIDs that can be used: -Ibuprofen, e.g, Advil, Nuprin, Motrin -Naproxen, e.g, Naprosyn, Aleve -COX-2 inhibitors – these might require a prescription, e.g, Celebrex or Bextra. You may just consider taking acetaminophen tablets until your pain subsides and your condition improves. 4.Pay attention to your posture You’ll want your condition to improve as quickly as possible and the best way to ensure this is to take good care of your posture during the healing process and afterwards. Make sure you provide your back with good support when sitting and lying down to prevent unhealthy postures which place unnecessary strain on the back and the existing irritated sciatic nerve. Invest in a good mattress – a firm one – which will support the back as you sleep and consider buying a good posture and back support for your office/house chair or a car seat support . Learn good posture techniques and avoid heavy lifting or other activities which place unhealthy pressure on the lower back. In addition, avoid long periods of sitting and standing which make your lower back muscles work overtime. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: General | Leave a Comment A Quality Seat Support May Save You a Lot of Money Tuesday, March 30th, 2010 | Author: admin Although most truck drivers suffer from back pain at one time, very few of them use a seat support and almost no one takes the time to warm up the muscles of the lower back before getting in the vehicle.  If you are like the average car owner, you probably never even thought about these precautions. However, considering that most Americans can’t imagine a life without a car, learning about seat supports, how to warm up the muscles, and how to sit come first in the list of safeguards any driver should take to prevent back pain and injuries. Protect Ligaments with a Seat Support Ligaments (fibrous tissues) hold each vertebra on the spine in place. Because of their elasticity, ligaments stretch under tension, like when you reach out to shift gears. Despite their elasticity, they remain in the elongated state for hours even when the tension no longer exists. That is why you feel back pain several hours after having lifted a heavy object. Also, that’s why a small torsion— like when you get out of the car after keeping your ligaments under severe tension—may cause excruciating pain the morning after. To protect the ligaments in the back and to ensure a correct driving posture, use a car seat support. There is a variety of designs in the market and for a small investment you can have a simple device that protects your back and helps you avoid costly expenditures on pain relief drugs and treatments. Sharing Your Car Drivers who share their cars with other family members or co-workers should re-adjust the seat after each driving shift. The length of the arm determines the ideal distance between seat and wheel. Place your hands in the 9 and 3 o’clock positions—or a little lower if it feels better—and let your arms and forearms rest comfortable. You should never be so close to the steering wheel that your legs touch it; but don’t place the seat too far away from it because your back will resent the extra tension when you unconsciously move the shoulders forward to reach the wheel. Notwithstanding, if you have short legs, consider using a cushion behind your back. Likewise, if you have short arms, make sure you adjust the seat or the cushion so you can reach the gear shift without leaning forward. Objects in Mirror Are Closer Another precaution you should take when you get in a car someone else was using is the re-adjusting of mirror positions and angles to fit your eye level. Make sure you have a wide view of the road with just a slight rotation of your eyes while sitting with your shoulders in contact with the backrest. This includes all three mirrors of the car. Under no circumstances should you force your head and shoulders to use a mirror. Easy with the Gas The ergonomic seat and the back support of your vehicle are useless if you don’t take the time to adjust the position of the seat as explained above; but if you do, your right foot will rest comfortably onto de gas pedal. When sitting properly, a minimal move at the ankle will suffice to control the vehicle and you will be able to drive for several hours without too much muscle tension. However, if you begin to feel some discomfort, pull the vehicle to the side and take a rest. Usually, a short stretching session will do just fine if you followed these directions. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: Articles , General | Leave a Comment Back Support – Improve Posture Today or Pay Tomorrow Thursday, March 25th, 2010 | Author: admin Let’s discover some benefits that come naturally when you improve posture.  A simple mechanism such as a back support may help correct your bad habits. Achieve instant sexual appeal, confidence and a sensation of well-being just by learning how to stand, walk and sit up with a good posture. Go take a walk and look around you. Did you notice that most people look bored? A huge percentage of the people out there look defeated, as if condemned to carry an exaggerated weight on their shoulders day after day. And why do they look like that?  Concerns, personal problems, debt, frustration…? No. Most people look beaten and overwhelmed because of bad posture. The Benefits A confident look An upright posture sends unconscious messages about a person’s attitude in life. You look taller and trustworthy when you adopt a proper posture. For an unknown reason, people trust taller individuals. If you don’t believe this claim, watch your favorite news show and pay attention to the anchors.  Are most of them taller than the average Joe or Jane? Of course they are. Advertising agencies base their TV campaigns on rating. The rating of a newscast depends on the credibility of their news anchors. Whether it is fair or not, tall individuals enjoy more credibility just for no other merit than being tall. By the way, have you ever seen a professional news anchor slouching? Sexual attractiveness Sexual appeal is closely tied to the confident look and positive attitude that emanates from a proper posture. You tell the world you feel proud of your achievements. You irradiate a contagious energy. People respect you, because you are saying, without words, that you deserve respect. To achieve well-being and… Believe it or not, many a symptom disappears when patients make the effort to improve their postures. Sometimes, they need posture and back support untey train their neglected muscles. Headaches, neck and back pain, digestive disorders and swelling usually vanish magically when patients learn to sit or walk in a healthy way. In the beginning, they may feel a certain discomfort when they try a back support to correct a bad habit. They need to compensate years of muscle weakening. However, as they succeed in strengthening the musculoskeletal system, other organs benefit immediately. For example, when drivers use a car seat support and stop slouching and compressing their internal organs while driving, blood and lymph flows improve. Consequently, the circulatory system carries more oxygen and speeds up toxin and waste removal. …to avoid pain and prevent injury What would you expect from a person who tends to tilt his head forward while sitting in front of his desk? In the short run, you’d expect him to suffer a certain pain in the neck, right? The long term consequences of a bad posture habit are almost always a structural injury.  Vertebral misalignment, a typical consequence of improper posture, causes numbness, muscle spasms and disk degeneration. Continued degeneration ends up in disk damage. When this happens, the damaged disk leaks its material and you experience limited motion in the area.  Over the years, the mobility of an injured spine decreases. Irreversibly. In other words, improve posture today or pay tomorrow. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: Articles , General | Leave a Comment The Consequences of Bad Posture – Willing to Take Your Chances? Monday, March 22nd, 2010 | Author: admin Let’s talk about bad posture. Because we all know the great benefits of having good posture, but the most important and first thing we should know is the damage that bad posture means to our health. If you want to correct your bad posture, you have to have a greater awareness of your body, because we tend to get used to unhealthy things. These are little details that go unnoticed until they are added up: then, headaches appear, along with a bad mood, stress, digestive problems, etc. So, let’s go through the main symptoms and problems that bad pasture will bring you. Low Body Performance When we say low body performance, we aren’t only talking about sport, and how a bad posture will wear you out little by little, blocking your skills and sports performance. We’re also referring to everyday life: you’ll feel tired and apathetic; you’ll have heavy dreams, since your shoulders will hurt while you sleep; you’ll feel less like going to the gym, and when you do, you’ll have difficulty breathing as well, thus shortening your resistance. There’s also the risk of injury if you do weightlifting movements at the gym: your spinal column will be in an improper position and with weight loaded on top of it. That is most certainly looking for trouble. Bone and muscle problems Basically, what a straight posture does is neutralize the natural force that keeps you on the ground: gravity. It’s the same principle that keeps every object standing: balance of forces. If you’re not standing straight, you’re forcing some parts of your body to make this great effort, while making others useless. Thus, when you have bad posture, the structure of your body suffers certain changes that start to damage it. Excessive stress is placed on bones, a stress that comes from the obvious body weight placed over them. Ask someone who doesn’t stand up straight, and they’ll tell you they’re used to the aching caused by back pain. This happens due to the negative effects that gravity has on the spine when it’s not neutralized. But bones aren’t the only victims; muscles in the back can actually shorten so they are almost permanently locked in this position. There are even some reports from people who couldn’t actually move after sitting for hours in a bad position. Though there are some techniques to help remedy the situation, doing exercise will not make up for this. You need to correct your bad posture before doing exercise. Increasing body fat Losing weight isn’t only about healthy food and exercise. Straightening up your posture will definitely help you lose weight and, what’s more important, it will help you keep up a healthy weight. Everybody who has tried standing in a good posture has instantly felt thinner, because body mass was being re-distributed correctly. To sum up, a lack of good posture will bring your overall health down. Its long-term effects include digestion problems, breathing difficulties, muscles being weakened, joint and ligament pain, just to name a few. A great way to improve your posture is investing in a quality seat support. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: General | Leave a Comment The Importance of Good Posture Thursday, March 18th, 2010 | Author: admin Good posture, as surprising as it may seem, is as important as healthy eating, working out and sleeping well. Good posture is actually a source of energy, a way of projecting your body and mind fluently, releasing you from stress and fatigue. Good Posture = Good Health We call good posture any position of the body that aligns your bones properly and doesn’t stress any of your muscles, so joints and ligaments can work as they are designed to. It also means that each of your inner organs is in a safe position and thus can work efficiently. All of this helps your nervous system to be calm and you avoid a vicious cycle that starts with bad posture and ends in anxiety, only to go back to a worse position. Poor posture – The result of a bad habit Often, poor posture develops because of bad habits. This also brings hope, since it means that we can actually change our poor postures and achieve a healthy one. But where does it come from? What kinds of habits actually influence the way we sit and stand? Certainly, habits of modern and sedentary life. Watching television and using computers for hours and hours has led our bodies to adopt these bad postures. Driving: being in the car for long periods of time, using old-fashioned seats that weren’t designed to offer the occupants a healthy posture. Years and years of poor posture can trigger a series of symptoms in the average adult. They can start by: Fatigue – you wake up and don’t feel like doing anything. Your muscles are weak, without energy, and so is your mind. Things lose brightness and taste. You think to yourself: “the solution to this problem would be to do some exercise”,  but ironically the problem is that you don’t feel like going out or doing exercise. A vicious cycle starts, which can only be ended by adopting a good posture. Tight muscles in the neck, back, arms and legs. You’ll know that you’ve reached this stage because you’ll feel your muscles and ligaments stiff, tight and painful, specially neck and back muscles. That typical image of a person sitting in front of the computer and moving their head to relieve the pain says it all. Most of neck and back problems are the consequence of years of bad posture. Joint stiffness and pain – this is especially dangerous in later years, because of the risk of arthritis, or what is called degenerative osteoarthritis. Joints are then very sensitive, since they’ve been supporting the weight of the body for years. How can I tell if I have a bad posture? The Mirror Test is a good way of knowing whether you have poor posture or not. Stand facing a full length mirror and check to see if: -Your shoulders are level -Your head is straight -The spaces between your arms and sides seem equal -Your hips are level, your kneecaps face straight ahead -Your ankles are straight If any of these indicators fail, it’s telling you that you need to correct your posture as soon as possible, but in a way that’s sustainable in time. This is why adding back supports to your seats is a good idea to start feeling the difference little by little. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: General | Leave a Comment Top 10 Natural Remedies for Back Pain Monday, March 15th, 2010 | Author: admin If you suffer from back pain, you might be looking for a natural way to help you manage and improve your condition. Thankfully there are several great natural remedies that many patients attribute to their much-improved back health. Here are 10 of the most effective remedies for your back pain: 1.Acupuncture Acupuncture is a form of traditional Chinese medicine that believes the cause of some health ailments is the result of blocked energy along main energy pathways of the body. To unblock this energy, needles are inserted along these pathways. Scientifically, it appears that the insertion of needles releases natural pain-relieving chemicals, sends signals that calm the nervous system, and also releases other beneficial neurochemicals and hormones. Back pain sufferers who have used acupuncture have reported significant improvements in their back pain and also a reduction in emotional distress caused by their ailment. 2.Capsaicin cream Capsaicin is the active ingredient found in chili peppers. When applied to the skin, it has also been shown to have a pain-relieving effect. It is believed capsaicin penetrates the skin and depletes a neurochemical in the body that transmits pain – thus having an analgesic effect. Since Capsaicin is a natural ingredient, it is considered a healthier alternative to normal pain killers. Those suffering from mild back problems have found it to be effective in helping them control pain. Capsaicin cream can be bought from your local drug or health store. 3.Vitamins and Minerals Having a balanced diet and a good supply of essential vitamins and minerals are always beneficial to person’s health. Studies into back pain have also shown that certain nutrients can have an impact on back health. Here are three main nutrients that could help your specific condition: - Vitamin D – Chronic muscle pain has been linked to deficiencies in Vitamin D. It can be found in fish with small bones, fortified milk and cereal and with exposure to sunlight. - Vitamin B12 – This has been shown to help problems with lower back pain, reducing pain and disability. Deficiencies in Vitamin B12 are normally treated with injections of the vitamin into the muscles. - Magnesium – Tests have suggested this mineral has a dramatic effect on the pain experienced with chronic lower back pain. Magnesium is a mineral that helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function. Symptoms of deficiency in magnesium include muscle spasms. Consume more magnesium by taking supplements or by eating more green leafy vegetables, dairy products, fish, meat and nuts. 4.Yoga Yoga is a form of exercise that tries to create a sense of balance within the body by developing flexibility and strength. Followed with caution and with advice from your doctor, yoga can help improve back health, as well as help reduce pain and decrease disability in those suffering from conditions such as mild chronic back pain. Many of the back exercises are designed to release tension in the muscles and improve their flexibility and strength – helping to correct any imbalances that have been causing pain. 5.Bowen Therapy Bowen Therapy is a series of specialized movements carried out on the body using a therapist’s fingers and thumbs. Typically, these movements pull the skin slack away from the muscles, apply pressure, and then quickly release the tension. When performed on areas of muscle where special receptors are located, it is believed that nerve impulses are sent to the brain resulting in muscle relaxation and pain relief. Bowen Therapy also aims to stimulate the body’s natural healing devices. 6.Breathing techniques Many people underestimate the power of breathing to help improve health. In relation to back health, breathing techniques make use of the mind-body connection to help reduce pain, can have a significant improvement on stress-levels associated with dealing with pain and disability, and can also increase the patient’s awareness of movement in their body. Speak to your doctor about breathing exercises you can practice or to be directed to a therapist you can visit who will utilize the benefits of good breathing techniques. 7.Massage therapy Massage is a common remedy for the treatment of back pain and aches. Many doctors, after diagnosing a back condition, will recommend the patient visit a physical therapist who will carry out specific massage techniques which will help reduce tension, encourage pain relief and realign any imbalances within the spine or other parts of the back. In addition, massage can help reduce anxiety and depression associated with chronic conditions. 8.Chiropractic Chiropractic is a therapy that focuses on spinal manipulation. Chiropractors manually apply force to joints that have become restricted through injury, inflammation, pain or strain. These movements are believed to restore mobility, relieve pain and muscle tightness and encourage the body’s natural healing devices. Research has shown that active manipulation of the spine, such as that carried out in chiropractic, is effective in reducing acute pain and sciatica associated with disc protrusions. 9.Alexander Technique This technique was initially designed to improve posture and prevent pain, muscle tension and poor mobility that result from bad habits such as slouching. By observing the way your body holds itself and moves, and through gentle touch and repositioning, a therapist attempts to train the body to adopt a healthy posture that supports good back health and avoids developing common back complaints. This technique is also useful for patients with existing back problems as it can reduce unnecessary strains placed on the back and can help prevent future injuries. 10.Meditation This therapy is closely related to yoga and again works on the mind-body connection. By helping the patient to relax, eliminate stress and gain control of their emotions, it is believed a physical benefit is also gained. Many of those undertaking forms of meditation have claimed it has helped reduce their symptoms of pain and boosted recovery times, too. All alternative therapies and treatments for back pain, when undertaken with good back health care, can have a dramatic effect on the patient – on how they manage and recover from their condition. Don’t forget to implement good practices into your daily routine to help take care of your back. Exercise often to increase back strength and flexibility, avoid lifting heavy objects or learn the correct way to handle them, wear comfortable shoes that provide good support (e.g., avoid high heels), use a good mattress for sleeping and invest in a good back support for times when you are sitting so that your back is kept straight and is always well-supported. Observe these essential rules and you’ll ensure you enjoy the best back health possible. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: General | Leave a Comment Find Relief! Living With a Herniated Disc Thursday, March 11th, 2010 | Author: admin Coping with the pain and discomfort of a herniated disc can make everyday life difficult and hard to manage. If you’ve been diagnosed with a herniated disc, or you fear you’re displaying the symptoms of one, this guide offers you solutions and advice to help you manage your condition with ease. What is a herniated disc? A herniated disc refers to an abnormality with the spinal disc – the soft cushion that sits between each vertebrae of the spine. When a spinal disc becomes herniated, it loses it shape and bulges out – or pushes itself outside of its normal boundary. Sometimes it may bulge out so much that it touches the spinal cord or spinal nerves and compresses them, causing pain and discomfort. What are the symptoms? These are the most common symptoms of a herniated disc: a)    Sciatica – an aching, radiating pain that starts in the buttock and extends down the side or back of one leg. This can be accompanied by tingling or numbness. b)    Pain, numbness or weakness that occurs in the lower back and leg, or in the neck, shoulder, chest or arm. c)    Lower back or leg pain that gets worse when you sneeze, cough or even sit down. How can I manage my condition? If you experience any of the symptoms above, it is important that you see a doctor who is able to run the appropriate tests and make the correct diagnosis. Once you have established you have a herniated disc, here are some great ways to manage the pain and the discomfort. a)    Pain relief -    Herniated discs can get better over time. If you are experiencing pain, make sure you rest and avoid activities that could aggravate your symptoms and place extra pressure on your back. -    Your doctor should direct you to the services of a good physical therapist. The therapist will show you exercises and positions to help you minimize any pain and discomfort. They will also provide rehabilitation exercises that will build up your core strength and stability to improve your back health and help protect it from future injury. -    The alternation between cold and heat treatments for back pain has proved to be very effective. You can purchase both cold and heat packs from your local pharmacy and apply them to your back or the area of pain from the comfort of your home. -    There is a range of medication that your doctor may suggest to help you. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) are normally prescribed for herniated discs to reduce inflammation and alleviate pain. Oral steroids are useful when sudden and acute disc herniation occurs. Over-the counter or extra-strength pain relievers, or muscle relaxants, may also be prescribed. In some cases, injections of cortisone can be administered in the area where the nerves are being compressed. -    Around 10 percent of patients with herniated discs have surgery to help relieve their condition. This is only after all other conservative treatments have failed, if there are problems walking or standing, or sometimes when a disc fragment lodges in the spinal canal. Then a discectomy or microdiscectomy may be performed where the offending herniated disc fragment may be removed. b)    Restoration Once pain can be effectively managed, it is beneficial to improve the health of the back to help it regain strength and return it to good form. The following are all effective suggestions to help you achieve this. -    Acupuncture – This therapy derived from traditional Chinese healing involves the insertion of fine needles into areas of your skin that are believed to be related to vital organs and systems in your body. It may provide short term pain relief from lower back pain. -    Massage – Massage can also be effective for pain relief and to help relieve tension in other areas of the back. -    Spinal manipulation – This may be carried out by your physical therapist or by a chiropractor. This will help resolve pain but can also help correct any imbalances in the spine or back. -    Yoga – Breathing techniques, yoga postures and deep relaxation will help improve the back muscles and their overall function. -    Exercise – Generally, exercise slows age-related degeneration of discs. Also, carrying out specific back exercises will help improve the strength and flexibility of the back and its muscles. c)    Prevention If you suffer from a herniated disc, it is also important to prevent future injury or the risk of incurring another herniated disc. These are some sensible measures you can take: -    Quit smoking – Smoking has been shown to increase the risk of developing back problems. -    Maintain a healthy weight – Excess weight has been shown to put extra stress and pressure on the spine and its discs, increasing the risks of herniation. -    Continue exercising – To help back strength and health. -    Learn how to maintain good posture. Having good posture reduces the amount of unnecessary pressure that can be placed on the spine and its discs. When lifting heavy objects, it is important to use your legs, not your back, to help you. Also, when sitting for long periods of time, it is vital for good back health that the spine be kept straight and aligned. Consider investing in a good posture and back support that can be used at your work desk, at home or in the car. This simple aid can have huge benefits for your future back health. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Do you have a herniated or bulging disc? Read this ESSENTIAL guide to coping with your condition.Coping with the pain and discomfort of a herniated disc can make everyday life difficult and hard to manage. If you’ve been diagnosed with a herniated disc, or you fear you’re displaying the symptoms of one, this guide offers you solutions and advice to help you manage your condition with ease. What is a herniated disc? A herniated disc refers to an abnormality with the spinal disc – the soft cushion that sits between each vertebrae of the spine. When a spinal disc becomes herniated, it loses it shape and bulges out – or pushes itself outside of its normal boundary. Sometimes it may bulge out so much that it touches the spinal cord or spinal nerves and compresses them, causing pain and discomfort. What are the symptoms? These are the most common symptoms of a herniated disc: a)    Sciatica – an aching, radiating pain that starts in the buttock and extends down the side or back of one leg. This can be accompanied by tingling or numbness. b)    Pain, numbness or weakness that occurs in the lower back and leg, or in the neck, shoulder, chest or arm. c)    Lower back or leg pain that gets worse when you sneeze, cough or even sit down. How can I manage my condition? If you experience any of the symptoms above, it is important that you see a doctor who is able to run the appropriate tests and make the correct diagnosis. Once you have established you have a herniated disc, here are some great ways to manage the pain and the discomfort. a)    Pain relief -    Herniated discs can get better over time. If you are experiencing pain, make sure you rest and avoid activities that could aggravate your symptoms and place extra pressure on your back. -    Your doctor should direct you to the services of a good physical therapist. The therapist will show you exercises and positions to help you minimize any pain and discomfort. They will also provide rehabilitation exercises that will build up your core strength and stability to improve your back health and help protect it from future injury. -    The alternation between cold and heat treatments for back pain has proved to be very effective. You can purchase both cold and heat packs from your local pharmacy and apply them to your back or the area of pain from the comfort of your home. -    There is a range of medication that your doctor may suggest to help you. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) are normally prescribed for herniated discs to reduce inflammation and alleviate pain. Oral steroids are useful when sudden and acute disc herniation occurs. Over-the counter or extra-strength pain relievers, or muscle relaxants, may also be prescribed. In some cases, injections of cortisone can be administered in the area where the nerves are being compressed. -    Around 10 percent of patients with herniated discs have surgery to help relieve their condition. This is only after all other conservative treatments have failed, if there are problems walking or standing, or sometimes when a disc fragment lodges in the spinal canal. Then a discectomy or microdiscectomy may be performed where the offending herniated disc fragment may be removed. b)    Restoration Once pain can be effectively managed, it is beneficial to improve the health of the back to help it regain strength and return it to good form. The following are all effective suggestions to help you achieve this. -    Acupuncture – This therapy derived from traditional Chinese healing involves the insertion of fine needles into areas of your skin that are believed to be related to vital organs and systems in your body. It may provide short term pain relief from lower back pain. -    Massage – Massage can also be effective for pain relief and to help relieve tension in other areas of the back. -    Spinal manipulation – This may be carried out by your physical therapist or by a chiropractor. This will help resolve pain but can also help correct any imbalances in the spine or back. -    Yoga – Breathing techniques, yoga postures and deep relaxation will help improve the back muscles and their overall function. -    Exercise – Generally, exercise slows age-related degeneration of discs. Also, carrying out specific back exercises will help improve the strength and flexibility of the back and its muscles. c)    Prevention If you suffer from a herniated disc, it is also important to prevent future injury or the risk of incurring another herniated disc. These are some sensible measures you can take: -    Quit smoking – Smoking has been shown to increase the risk of developing back problems. -    Maintain a healthy weight – Excess weight has been shown to put extra stress and pressure on the spine and its discs, increasing the risks of herniation. -    Continue exercising – To help back strength and health. -    Learn how to maintain good posture. Having good posture reduces the amount of unnecessary pressure that can be placed on the spine and its discs. When lifting heavy objects, it is important to use your legs, not your back, to help you. Also, when sitting for long periods of time, it is vital for good back health that the spine be kept straight and aligned. Consider investing in a good posture and back support that can be used at your work desk, at home or in the car. This simple aid can have huge benefits for your future back health. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source).Coping with the pain and discomfort of a herniated disc can make everyday life difficult and hard to manage. If you’ve been diagnosed with a herniated disc, or you fear you’re displaying the symptoms of one, this guide offers you solutions and advice to help you manage your condition with ease. What is a herniated disc? A herniated disc refers to an abnormality with the spinal disc – the soft cushion that sits between each vertebrae of the spine. When a spinal disc becomes herniated, it loses it shape and bulges out – or pushes itself outside of its normal boundary. Sometimes it may bulge out so much that it touches the spinal cord or spinal nerves and compresses them, causing pain and discomfort. What are the symptoms? These are the most common symptoms of a herniated disc: a)    Sciatica – an aching, radiating pain that starts in the buttock and extends down the side or back of one leg. This can be accompanied by tingling or numbness. b)    Pain, numbness or weakness that occurs in the lower back and leg, or in the neck, shoulder, chest or arm. c)    Lower back or leg pain that gets worse when you sneeze, cough or even sit down. How can I manage my condition? If you experience any of the symptoms above, it is important that you see a doctor who is able to run the appropriate tests and make the correct diagnosis. Once you have established you have a herniated disc, here are some great ways to manage the pain and the discomfort. a)    Pain relief -    Herniated discs can get better over time. If you are experiencing pain, make sure you rest and avoid activities that could aggravate your symptoms and place extra pressure on your back. -    Your doctor should direct you to the services of a good physical therapist. The therapist will show you exercises and positions to help you minimize any pain and discomfort. They will also provide rehabilitation exercises that will build up your core strength and stability to improve your back health and help protect it from future injury. -    The alternation between cold and heat treatments for back pain has proved to be very effective. You can purchase both cold and heat packs from your local pharmacy and apply them to your back or the area of pain from the comfort of your home. -    There is a range of medication that your doctor may suggest to help you. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) are normally prescribed for herniated discs to reduce inflammation and alleviate pain. Oral steroids are useful when sudden and acute disc herniation occurs. Over-the counter or extra-strength pain relievers, or muscle relaxants, may also be prescribed. In some cases, injections of cortisone can be administered in the area where the nerves are being compressed. -    Around 10 percent of patients with herniated discs have surgery to help relieve their condition. This is only after all other conservative treatments have failed, if there are problems walking or standing, or sometimes when a disc fragment lodges in the spinal canal. Then a discectomy or microdiscectomy may be performed where the offending herniated disc fragment may be removed. b)    Restoration Once pain can be effectively managed, it is beneficial to improve the health of the back to help it regain strength and return it to good form. The following are all effective suggestions to help you achieve this. -    Acupuncture – This therapy derived from traditional Chinese healing involves the insertion of fine needles into areas of your skin that are believed to be related to vital organs and systems in your body. It may provide short term pain relief from lower back pain. -    Massage – Massage can also be effective for pain relief and to help relieve tension in other areas of the back. -    Spinal manipulation – This may be carried out by your physical therapist or by a chiropractor. This will help resolve pain but can also help correct any imbalances in the spine or back. -    Yoga – Breathing techniques, yoga postures and deep relaxation will help improve the back muscles and their overall function. -    Exercise – Generally, exercise slows age-related degeneration of discs. Also, carrying out specific back exercises will help improve the strength and flexibility of the back and its muscles. c)    Prevention If you suffer from a herniated disc, it is also important to prevent future injury or the risk of incurring another herniated disc. These are some sensible measures you can take: -    Quit smoking – Smoking has been shown to increase the risk of developing back problems. -    Maintain a healthy weight – Excess weight has been shown to put extra stress and pressure on the spine and its discs, increasing the risks of herniation. -    Continue exercising – To help back strength and health. -    Learn how to maintain good posture. Having good posture reduces the amount of unnecessary pressure that can be placed on the spine and its discs. When lifting heavy objects, it is important to use your legs, not your back, to help you. Also, when sitting for long periods of time, it is vital for good back health that the spine be kept straight and aligned. Consider investing in a good posture and back support that can be used at your work desk, at home or in the car. This simple aid can have huge benefits for your future back health. If you liked this article, tell all your friends about it. They’ll thank you for it. If you have a blog or website, you can link to it or even post it to your own site (don’t forget to mention www.trucomfort.com as the original source). Category: General | Leave a Comment « Previous Entries Next Entries » Categories Articles General Subscribe2 Your email: RSS Six Top Health Tips for the Frequent Flier Why Does My Neck Hurt? Discover the 5 Main Causes of Neck Pain On the Road Health: 6 Top Tips For Truck Driver’s Ten Great Ways To Soothe A Sore Neck Recovering from Back Injury?  7 Tips to Help You Heal New Fitness Program?  Don’t Let It Hurt Your Back Choosing the Best Mattress to Reduce Back Pain 5 Simple Stretches to Relax Your Back Muscles Follow the 4 Right Posture Techniques 5 Simple Tips to Always Maintain Good Posture Page 4 of 9 « First ... « 2 3 4 5 6 » ... Last » © 2012 - TruComfort - All 