
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 16:02:34 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Young teenagers kicking the habit, claims report - Stopsmoking News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Young Teenagers Kicking The Habit Claims Report 22/12/2011 Young teenagers kicking the habit, claims report by Ashley Curtis It appears smoking is falling out of favour with young people after figures showing smoking among young teens has fallen to its lowest point in 30 years were released, reports Evening Times . The 'Scottish Schools Adolescent Lifestyle and Substance Use Survey shows' smoking among 13 - 15-year-olds dropped to a new low in 2010. This represented an 11 per cent drop for boys and a 14 per cent drop for girls. Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon praised the figures, claiming the "trend is encouraging", but conceded there is a lot of work to do to properly stamp out smoking among young people. She told Press Association : "The fact remains that while there are still teenagers smoking, we must continue to take firm action." Parents worried about their children smoking may want to book a stop-smoking hypnosis appointment in order to stamp out their habit. The long-term effects of smoking are incredibly damaging, so the sooner the better when it comes to the health of a child. "If smoking is to become a thing of the past," continues Sturgeon, "we must prevent children and young people from taking up smoking. That is why we also passed legislation to ban the display of tobacco." Unfortunately, the report also showed an increase in alcohol consumption since 2008. To find out how the Therapy Lounge can help Stop Smoking click here Acknowledge obesity this  : Next → ← Previous : Anxiety suffers may "not By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2