
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-ServedBy: web120
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 05:19:14 GMT
Connection: close
Server: SSWS
Vary: Accept-Encoding

Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Crohn's / Ulcerative Colitis) - Diseases - Tillotson Institute of Natural Health Search Herbal Basics Welcome Principles and Traditions Growth, Manufacture, Quality How to Evaluate Information Safety and Regulation Actions and Interactions The Language of Herbs Understanding Herbs Consultations Herb Encyclopedia Important Herbs from Around the World Disease Treatments Treatment - The Big Picture Specific Diseases/Patterns/Syndromes Alan &  Naixin's Clinic Clinic Overview Staff Directions Order medicine Send email to Chrysalis References & Downloads References Downloads Links One Earth Herbal Sourcebook Login squarespace login « Improving Poor Circulation with Herbs | Main | Inner Ear Infection (Otitis Media) » Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Crohn's / Ulcerative Colitis) Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) include Crohn’s disease and
ulcerative colitis.  Crohn’s disease involves diarrhea, weakness,
occasional bleeding, and a diffuse granulomatous inflammation of the
entire bowel membrane. In cases of ulcerative colitis the inflammation
is limited mostly to the colon. These cases are very difficult to treat
with herbs alone.  The diseases often progress to the point where
patients require surgery to remove inflamed areas of the bowel, and
since this does not usually solve the problem, they often experience
recurrences. I usually begin treatment of these conditions with a careful history to
identify causative factors. My usual first step is a bland diet,
eliminating milk products and other potential food allergens. I then
add slippery elm/ DGL licorice powder to calm things down mechanically, about six grams per day in divided doses for up to a month.  I sometimes use liquid chlorophyll and acidophillus capsules as well or use a more direct dysbiosis treatment. Herbs that can be of great benefit in these conditions when used as simples (single herbs in capsules or tablets) include tien chi root , which helps heal the ulcers, and boswellia gum, coptis or DGL licorice root , which control inflammation. Sometimes plain green tea can also be helpful. Inflammatory prostaglandin levels are almost
always highly elevated in these diseases, and studies have shown great
benefit in using large amounts of flaxseed or fish oils (Stenson, 1992). Tinctures can often work at first when patients cannot
tolerate powders. For the same reason, I often employ liquid vitamin
and mineral combinations to ensure some absorption. Because IBD patients are invariably deficient in key nutrients, it is
necessary to supplement with a liquid multi-vitamin and liquid
multi-mineral.  Studies show that patients are especially prone to
elevated homocysteine levels, indicating the need for B-12 and folic
acid supplementation (Mahmud et al, 1999). Beet root would also be valuable here. Vilwa fruit is an important herb for treating colitis. A simple Ayurvedic formula combines vilwa fruit powder (60%) with anise, coriande r, a very small amount of ginger root , and an astringent herb such as black tea . I recommend using about two grams two to three times per day.  The Ayurvedic tonic anti-inflammatory formula called Kaishore Guggul can be used with benefit. It is always best to consult a skilled herbalist when writing formulas
for serious diseases like this. The thought processes behind the
formulas in this case include assessment of both the digestive power
and inflammation level, as both types of herbs usually are needed. In
cases of weak digestion, herbs like white atractylodes , poria mushroom and ginseng roo t should be emphasized. If the inflammation is more severe, you might emphasize other herbs in the formula, like scute root , coptis rhizome, boswellia gum and phellodendron root , the latter of which calms down excess immune activity. When bleeding is present, it is important to add tien chi root or another hemostatic.  Cases with fixed pain indicate blood congestion, which requires moving blood herbs like red peony root and salvia root . If the diarrhea is severe, use astringent herbs such as vilwa fruit or white oak bark . Posted on Sunday, April 3, 2005 at 11:22AM by posted by Dr. Tillotson in Disease encyclopedia | Comments Off View Printer Friendly Version Email Article to Friend Copyri