
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 03:36:37 GMT
Server: IBM_HTTP_Server
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

InteliHealth: Rheumatoid Arthritis What Is It? Symptoms Diagnosis Expected Duration Prevention Treatment When To Call a Professional Prognosis Additional Info What Is It? Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic (long-lasting) inflammatory disease that causes pain, stiffness, warmth, redness and swelling in joints. Over time, the affected joints may become misshapen, misaligned and damaged. Tissue lining the joint can become thick, and may wear away surrounding ligaments, cartilage and bone as it spreads. Rheumatoid arthritis usually occurs in a symmetrical pattern, meaning that if one knee or hand has it, the other usually does, too. The cause of rheumatoid arthritis is unknown, although it appears to be an autoimmune disease. When the body's immune system does not operate as it should, white blood cells that normally attack bacteria or viruses attack healthy tissue instead -- in this case, the synovium, or joint tissue. As the synovial membrane (the thin layer of cells lining the joint) becomes inflamed, enzymes are released. Over time, these enzymes and certain immune cells damage the cartilage, bone, tendons and ligaments near the joint. Some research suggests that a virus triggers this faulty immune response. However, there is not yet convincing evidence that a single virus is the cause in all patients. At the same time, it appears that some people are more likely to get the disease because of their genetics. Rheumatoid arthritis, the most disabling form of arthritis, generally affects more than one joint at a time. Commonly affected joints include those in the hands, wrists, feet, ankles, elbows, shoulders, hips, knees and neck. Rheumatoid arthritis can result in loose, deformed joints, loss of mobility and diminished strength. It also can cause painless lumps the size of a pea or acorn, called rheumatoid nodules. These develop under the skin, especially around the elbow or beneath the toes. Generally, the pain of rheumatoid arthritis is described as a dull ache, similar to that of a headache or toothache. Pain is typically worse in the morning. It is not rare to have 30 minutes to an hour or more of morning stiffness. On days when the disease is more active, you may experience fatigue, loss of appetite, low-grade fever, sweats and difficulty sleeping. Because rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic disease (meaning it can affect the entire body), you also may have inflammation in other areas, including the heart, lungs or eyes. Symptoms vary between people and even in one person over time. People with mild forms of the disease are bothered by pain and stiffness, but they may not experience any joint damage. For other people, damage occurs early, requiring aggressive medical and surgical treatment. People with rheumatoid arthritis may notice worsening and improvement for no apparent reason. Although this disease most often afflicts people between the ages of 20 and 50, it may affect children and the elderly. Of the 2 million people with rheumatoid arthritis in the United States, at least 75% are women. Symptoms Symptoms include: Pain, swelling, limited motion, warmth and tightness around affected joints, which most commonly include the hands and wrists, feet and ankles, elbows, shoulders, neck, knees and hips, usually in a symmetrical pattern. Over time, joints may develop deformities. Fatigue, soreness, stiffness and aching, particularly in the morning and afternoon (described as morning stiffness and afternoon fatigue) Lumps or rheumatoid nodules below the skin Weight loss Low-grade fever and sweats Trouble sleeping Weakness and loss of mobility Depression Diagnosis Your doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history, and will examine you. You also may be sent for a blood test. An abnormal antibody, called the rheumatoid factor (RF), is found in the blood of 60% to 70% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. However, having RF does not necessarily mean you have rheumatoid arthritis. Many people who do not have rheumatoid arthritis can have RF appear in their blood. A more recently recognized antibody, called the anti-cyclic citrullinated protein (anti-CCP), may be a more specific indicator of rheumatoid arthritis. Other blood tests may be done to look for other causes of joint pain, anemia and to check if the kidneys and liver are working normally. You may hear about a checklist of symptoms (called criteria) for diagnosing rheumatoid arthritis. Although many physicians use this checklist as a guide, it is important to know that some patients with rheumatoid arthritis do not have many of the symptoms on the list, especially if their disease is mild. The diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis relies mostly on the experience and judgment of the doctor, and is based on the "big picture" of symptoms, examination and test results. Expected Duration Most people with rheumatoid arthritis have chronic (long-lasting) symptoms. They experience periods when symptoms get worse, called flare-ups, and periods when symptoms improve. Rarely, symptoms and signs of the disease disappear, called a remission. Prevention There is no way to prevent rheumatoid arthritis. Treatment The treatment of rheumatoid arthritis has improved dramatically in the past 50 years. A comprehensive approach that combines medications, rest balanced with exercise, lifestyle modifications, and sometimes surgery, can help many people to lead normal lives. The most important goals in treating rheumatoid arthritis are maintaining your ability to move and function, reducing pain and preventing future joint damage. If these are achieved, quality of life and length of life may be normal. The treatments themselves may cause problems. You and your doctor will have to weigh the risks and benefits of any medication or other treatment that is available for this disease. Medication Certain medications relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (such as pain and swelling), while other medications slow the progress of the disease. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including prescription aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin and other brand names) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), can help relieve symptoms. Side effects occur in a minority of patients. These include upset stomach, ulcers, reduced kidney function or allergic reactions. Newer NSAIDs, such as celecoxib (Celebrex), may provide the same benefits for arthritis as older medications but with less risk of ulcers. However, the risk of ulcers is not zero. One study showed that for people at highest risk (those with recent bleeding ulcer), up to 10% of those treated with celecoxib developed a new ulcer. In addition, the risk was similar for these high-risk patients when taking an older agent (diclofenac) combined with a medication to protect the stomach (omeprazole). Other pain relievers, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or tramadol (Ultram), may provide additional pain relief when taken with an NSAID. Corticosteroids, such as prednisone (Deltasone and other brand names), reduce inflammation. However, they have little lasting benefit and come with a long list of troubling side effects, such as easy bruising, thinning of the bones, cataracts, weight gain, puffy face, diabetes and high blood pressure, among others. If you do use corticosteroids, follow your doctor's recommendations closely. Your doctor may prescribe a corticosteroid to relieve occasional flare-ups, and then gradually taper you off the medication. Stopping corticosteroid therapy suddenly can be dangerous. Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (called DMARDs, second-line drugs or remittive therapies) appear to slow or halt the progression of rheumatoid arthritis by altering the function of your body's immune system. Most experts recommend that all people with rheumatoid arthritis take a DMARD soon after being diagnosed to reduce the chances of joint damage. These drugs include methotrexate (Folex, Methotrexate LPF, Rheumatrex), hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil), leflunomide (Arava) or sulfasalazine (Azulfidine). Each of these comes with a small risk of serious side effects. Your doctors will review them with you. Newer medications include: abatacept (Orencia) adalimumab (Humira) certolizumab (Cimzia) etanercept (Enbrel) golimumab (Simponi) infliximab (Remicade rituximab (Rituxan) These medications are available by injection only. They can be highly effective, but many patients improve with oral medications that are much less expensive so most doctors recommend older treatments first. Another drug recently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for rheumatoid arthritis is anakinra (Kineret), an injectable drug that appears to be only modestly effective but may be a reasonable option if other treatments have failed. Other therapies include minocycline (Minocin), cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune), gold and penicillamine (Cuprimine, Depen), although these treatments are used much less often because most experts find that they are not as effective or safe. Because the newest medications have been studied only in selected, and often the healthiest, people, they may have side effects that are not yet well known. For example, new risks were discovered for infliximab a year or two after it was approved for use. Studies found that tuberculosis, although rare, was more common than expected among those receiving treatment. In addition, in a trial of infliximab treatment for congestive heart failure, a higher death rate was observed compared with those not receiving the drug. These findings have led to new recommendations about how patients should be screened before treatment begins. Because these medications take some time to start working, your doctor probably will advise you to take an NSAID, a corticosteroid or both during the early weeks or months of treatment with a DMARD. Diet, Exercise and Rehabilitation Services Finding a balance between rest and exercise is crucial to managing rheumatoid arthritis. When your symptoms flare up -- when your joints are sore, warm and swollen -- take it easy and rest. You can continue to do range-of-motion exercises to keep your joints mobile, but be careful not to tire yourself or aggravate your joints. Avoid unnecessary walking, housework or other activities. When your joints feel better and when other symptoms, including fatigue and morning stiffness, are less noticeable, increase your activity. Weight-bearing exercises such as walking and lifting weights can strengthen weakened muscles without risking additional joint damage. If exercise produces more pain or joint swelling, cut back a bit. Despite many claims, there are no dietary changes, supplements, herbs or other alternative therapies known to improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis over a long period. Having rheumatoid arthritis often means that you have to pay special attention to the way you move. An occupational therapist or physical therapist can offer suggestions and guidance as you manage ordinary tasks around your home and work. In addition, a therapist can provide special devices that can help you conserve energy and protect your joints during your daily activities. A splint, brace, sling or Ace bandage worn when your joints are especially tender can take the pressure off the joints and protect them from injury. A podiatrist may provide shoe inserts (orthotics) or even suggest surgery to improve pain and function in arthritic feet. Surgery In some cases, surgery is needed to remove inflamed tissue, or to reconstruct or replace the affected joint. When rheumatoid arthritis causes significant destruction and pain in the hip or knee, arthroplasty, a surgical procedure to replace the joint, may be an effective option. Because rheumatoid arthritis may cause tendon damage, especially in the hand and wrist, surgical tendon repair may be recommended. When To Call a Professional Tell your doctor if you experience any of the following: Pain, stiffness, warmth, redness or swelling at the joints (of the wrist, fingers, neck, shoulders, elbows, hips, knees, ankles and feet) Problems in symmetrical joints (both knees, for example) Fatigue Occasional fever Pain or stiffness in the morning (lasting more than 30 minutes) Prognosis Effective treatment can help you live well with rheumatoid arthritis, although the severity of the disease and its response to therapy are highly variable. Additional Info American College of Rheumatology 2200 Lake Blvd. NE Atlanta, GA 30319 Phone: 404-633-3777 Fax: 404-633-1870 http://www.rheumatology.org/ Arthritis Foundation P.O. Box 7669 Atlanta, GA 30357-0669 Toll-Free: 1-800-283-7800 http://www.arthritis.org/ National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases Information Clearinghouse National Insitutes of Health 1 AMS Circle Bethesda, MD 20892-3675 Phone: 301-495-4484 Toll-Free: 1-877-226-4267 TTY: 301-565-2966 http://www.niams.nih.gov/ American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons 6300 North River Rd. Rosemont, IL 60018 Phone: 847-823-7186 Toll-free: 1-800-346-2267 Fax: 847-823-8125 http://www.aaos.org/ Last updated June 08, 2010 Printer-friendly format This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. Help | About Us | Privacy Policy | Editorial Policy | Advertising Policy | Contact Us | Register Change Profile 1996-2012. Aetna Inc. All rights reserved. All information is intended for your general knowledge only and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment for specific medical conditions. You should seek prompt medical care for any specific health issues and consult your physician before starting a new fitness regimen. Use of this online service is subject to the disclaimer and the terms and conditions. External website links provided on this site are meant for convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement. These external links open in a different window. The Aetna InteliHealth website subscribes to the HONcode principles of the Health On the Net Foundation. "InteliHealth" and "The Trusted Source" are trademarks of Aetna Inc. • Complementary & Alternative Medicine • Fitness • Nutrition • Weight Management • Workplace Health • Children's Health • Men's Health • Seniors' Health • Women's Health • More • Medical Dictionary • Diseases and Conditions • Drug Resource Center • More • Addiction • Allergy • Alzheimer's Disease • Anemia • Arthritis • Asthma • Breast Cancer • Cancer • Cholesterol • Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease • Chronic Pain • Dementia • Depression • Diabetes • Digestive • Digestive-Tract Cancer • Ear, Nose And Throat Disorders • Epilepsy • Eyes • Feet • Glaucoma • HIV/AIDS • Hair Loss • Headache • Heart and Circulatory • High Blood Pressure • Impotence • Infertility • Kidney Disease • Low Back Pain • Lyme Disease • Memory Loss • Mental Health • Multiple Sclerosis • Osteoarthritis • Pregnancy • Prostate Cancer • Rheumatoid Arthritis • Sexual And Reproductive Health • Sexually Transmitted Diseases • S