
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 13:10:34 GMT
Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=8C2B2DBA0B9BB311080B62FEEBF1ED73; Path=/
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: Close

Avoiding Asthma Triggers - Better Medicine Better Medicine Logo Main Conditions Acne ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's Disease Anemia Arthritis Asthma Breast Cancer Cholesterol COPD Cold & Flu Colon Cancer Depression Diabetes Eczema Epilepsy Fibromyalgia Gout Hemorrhoids Hypertension Interstitial Cystitis Kidney Cancer Leukemia Lung Cancer Migraine & Headaches Multiple Sclerosis Osteoporosis Pregnancy Restless Legs Syndrome Rheumatoid Arthritis Rosacea Schizophrenia Shingles Triglycerides View All Conditions Symptoms Back Pain Bruising Cough Dehydration Earache Food Poisoning Hives Itching Skin Joint Pain Leg Numbness Leg Pain Lower Back Pain Middle Ear Infection Stomach Cramps Sweating Swollen Tongue Tingling Fingers Tingling Tongue Vomiting Weight Gain View All Symptoms Drugs & Treatments Abilify Actos Advair Avastin Lipitor Crestor Cymbalta Effexor XR Enbrel Epogen Lexapro Lovenox Nexium Neulasta OxyContin Plavix Remicade Seroquel Singulair Zyprexa View All Drugs Healthy Living Women's Health Children's Health Men's Health Senior Health Symptom Checker Forums Email Print View All Asthma Articles Main › Asthma › Living with Asthma › Avoiding Asthma Triggers Avoiding Asthma Triggers Asthma Quick Overview Symptoms & Causes Treatment Living with Asthma | View all Asthma Articles » Filed Under: Asthma , Allergies and the Immune System , Allergies View More “ Living with Asthma ” Articles (57) Featured Articles Living Well With Asthma How to Choose an Asthma Specialist ----- A Good Career Move: Manage Your Asthma A Kids' Asthma Journal All About Asthma in Children All About Work-Related Asthma Allergens: Animals Allergens: Dust and Dust Mites Allergens: Mold Allergens: Pollen Asthma Action Plan Worksheet Asthma Attack Triggers Asthma Attacks Asthma Triggers Asthma and Exercise Asthma and Pregnancy Asthma on Campus Asthma, Allergies, and Pneumonia Risk Asthma: Dealing With Your Child's School Avoiding Asthma Triggers Breathe Easy: Effective Asthma Management Can Asthma Affect Your Mental Health? Can a Cold Trigger Asthma? Controlling Allergens: Dust Mites in the Bedroom Does Asthma Go Away? Don't Rule Out Adult-Onset Asthma Even With Asthma, You Can Kick the Habit Exercising with Asthma Five Tips for Controlling Your Child's Asthma For Kids: Asthma and Exercise For Kids: Know Your Asthma Zones For Parents: Helping Your Child Avoid Asthma Triggers Help Your Child Breathe Easy Help Your Children Breathe Easier Help Your Teen Take Charge of Asthma Helping Your Child Live With Asthma How Exercise, Sports and Physical Activity Trigger Asthma How to Choose an Asthma Specialist How to React to an Asthma Attack Kids With Asthma May Get Too Much TV Learning to Live With Childhood Asthma Living Well With Asthma Mold Can Affect Your Health Pulmicort and Blood Sugar School and Childhood Asthma Score an A+ With Your Child’s Asthma Action Plan Skip the Burger and Feel Better Smoking and Asthma Smoking and Asthma Don't Mix Swimming for Children With Asthma Teaching Asthmatics to Be Their Own Doctor The Asthma-Sinus Connection Tips to Prevent an Asthma Attack Traveling With Asthma Understanding Asthma Triggers Understanding Exercise-Induced Asthma Understanding Status Asthmaticus What Are the Health Effects of Air Pollution? Women with Asthma Can Have Healthy Babies UP NEXT ›› Breathe Easy: Effective Asthma Management Many things can trigger an asthma episode, including the following: upper respiratory infections allergies to dust mites, pollens, animal dander, mold/mildew, or cockroaches exercise irritants such as cigarette and other forms of smoke, strong odors and perfumes, fumes from wood stoves or kerosene heaters, and air pollution weather changes The following is a list of things you can do to limit your child's exposure to common triggers of asthma. allergies dust mites The allergy is caused by tiny insect-like creatures called dust mites. Dust mites are found in mattresses, carpets, and upholstered furniture. They thrive in warm, humid conditions and feed on the shed scales of human skin. The best way to prevent allergy symptoms caused by dust mites is to limit your child's exposure. Be sure to pay special attention to the bedroom where your child spends the most amount of his/her time. beds Every bed in your house should have wooden or metal frames. Do not allow your child to sleep on a couch, sofa, or hide-a-bed. If your child has asthma and sleeps in a bunk bed, he/she should sleep in the top bunk. mattress/box spring Place all mattresses and box springs in a zippered, dust-proof cover and tape over the zippers with electrical or duct tape. pillows Encase pillows in zippered, dust-proof covers. Pillows should be made of Dacron or other synthetic fiber. Do not use foam, feather, or "Down" pillows. bedding Avoid wool or down blankets. Wash all bedding (sheets, pillowcases, blankets) in hot water. Cold water will not kill the dust mites. Dry all clothes and bedding in the dryer to avoid pollen sticking to them when on a clothesline. floor coverings If possible, remove wall-to-wall carpeting. If not, vacuum the carpet frequently (at least twice a week). If your child has asthma, only vacuum when your child is away and will not return to the room for several hours after you have finished. Substitute multi-layered vacuum bags for regular single layer bags. Small, washable cotton rugs may be used if washed often. Wood, tile, or vinyl flooring without a rug is best, and they should be mopped at least weekly. closets Remove all stored toys, boxes, and other articles from closets. The closet should contain only clothing and should be as dust-free as the room. Keep all clothes in closets, never lying around the room. furnace (heating) Electric or gas heat is recommended. Do not use wood stoves or kerosene heaters. Change the air filters on the furnace every month. Cover all furnace outlets in the room with special filters or cover the outlets with ten thicknesses of cheesecloth or muslin. This will catch dust in the furnace air. Change the cheesecloth when it gets dusty underneath (about every two weeks). air purifier A HEPA filter unit of the proper size can effectively remove airborne allergens. air conditioners Window unit or central air-conditioning is ideal. Change or clean all filters every month. Windows should be kept closed, especially in the summer. doors Keep bedroom closet doors and bedroom doors closed as much as possible. walls Paint walls or use washable wallpaper. Avoid pennants, pictures, wreaths, flower arrangements or other dust catchers on the walls. window coverings Avoid heavy curtains and Venetian/mini blinds. Use window shades instead. If curtains are used, they should be washed monthly in hot water. humidifier Avoid the use of humidifiers, dust mites grow best in high humidity. Use a dehumidifier to keep humidity in the home less than 50 percent. furniture Remove all upholstered (stuffed) furniture and replace upholstered furniture with wooden or plastic furniture. Avoid open bookshelves, as they are great dust catchers. sleeping and napping Your child should nap or sleep only in his/her own bed, which has been made dust free. When your child travels or visits, he/she should take a non-allergic pillow with him/her. playing If your child has asthma, do not allow him/her to jump on furniture or beds nor wrestle on carpeted floors. Avoid fabric toys or stuffed animals. If your child has stuffed animals they should be machine washable and washed in hot water or placed in the freezer overnight at least weekly. Store toys in a closed toy chest. ‹ Previous 1 2 Next › Filed Under: Asthma , Allergies and the Immune System , Allergies View More “ Living with Asthma ” Articles (57) Featured Articles Living Well With Asthma How to Choose an Asthma Specialist ----- A Good Career Move: Manage Your Asthma A Kids' Asthma Journal All About Asthma in Children All About Work-Related Asthma Allergens: Animals Allergens: Dust and Dust Mites Allergens: Mold Allergens: Pollen Asthma Action Plan Worksheet Asthma Attack Triggers Asthma Attacks Asthma Triggers Asthma and Exercise Asthma and Pregnancy Asthma on Campus Asthma, Allergies, and Pneumonia Risk Asthma: Dealing With Your Child's School Avoiding Asthma Triggers Breathe Easy: Effective Asthma Management Can Asthma Affect Your Mental Health? Can a Cold Trigger Asthma? Controlling Allergens: Dust Mites in the Bedroom Does Asthma Go Away? Don't Rule Out Adult-Onset Asthma Even With Asthma, You Can Kick the Habit Exercising with Asthma Five Tips for Controlling Your Child's Asthma For Kids: Asthma and Exercise For Kids: Know Your Asthma Zones For Parents: Helping Your Child Avoid Asthma Triggers Help Your Child Breathe Easy Help Your Children Breathe Easier Help Your Teen Take Charge of Asthma Helping Your Child Live With Asthma How Exercise, Sports and Physical Activity Trigger Asthma How to Choose an Asthma Specialist How to React to an Asthma Attack Kids With Asthma May Get Too Much TV Learning to Live With Childhood Asthma Living Well With Asthma Mold Can Affect Your Health Pulmicort and Blood Sugar School and Childhood Asthma Score an A+ With Your Child’s Asthma Action Plan Skip the Burger and Feel Better Smoking and Asthma Smoking and Asthma Don't Mix Swimming for Children With Asthma Teaching Asthmatics to Be Their Own Doctor The Asthma-Sinus Connection Tips to Prevent an Asthma Attack Traveling With Asthma Understanding Asthma Triggers Understanding Exercise-Induced Asthma Understanding Status Asthmaticus What Are the Health Effects of Air Pollution? Women with Asthma Can Have Healthy Babies UP NEXT ›› Breathe Easy: Effective Asthma Management You Might Also Like 5 Tips for Your Child’s Asthma Trends in Asthma Treatment Asthma Quiz: Test Your Knowledge Take the Asthma Health Test Avoiding Asthma Triggers Glossary of Asthma Terms View All Terms Allergen , Antihistamine , Bronchial Tube , Corticosteroid , Dander , Dust Mite , Exhalation , Histamine , Inhaler , Irritant , Mucus , Nebulizer , Peak Flow Meter , Pollen , Prednisone , Sputum , Steroid , Theophylline , Wheeze Your Guide to Asthma Asthma Quick Overview Symptoms & Causes Treatment Living with Asthma Harvard Logo Expert Advice from Harvard Medical School Asthma May Raise Risk of Anxiety & Depression › Personalized HealthCoach Action Plans Are you wondering how to better control your symptoms? Take a health test to get on track. Joint Pain of Knee Arthritis Intrusive Thoughts of Schizophrenia Itchy Skin Patches of Psoriasis Leg Sensations of RLS Mood Changes of Depression View All HealthCoaches Expert Advice from Harvard Medical School Understanding Asthma Symptoms Kids With Asthma May Get Too Much TV How to React to an Asthma Attack Personal Story Network A place where patients, healthcare providers, caregivers, and innovators share their personal stories about healing, and hope within the healthcare system and beyond. Stephen's Marathon Run Despite Asthma Bruce's Journey Through 3 Joint Replacements Alexandra’s Inspiration to Engage With Grace Dr. Sand's Hope for Patient Participation Robin's Triumph Beyond Childhood Cancer Sharry's Exhausting Role as Caregiver Read all Stories Asthma Features Spring Survival Guide for Asthma Skip the Burger and Feel Better A Good Career Move: Manage Your Asthma Asthma Quiz Health Test: Could Your Wheezing Be Asthma? Did You Know? View Source Close Medical Reviewer: Akin, Louise RN, BSN Medical Reviewer: Pierce-Smith, Daphne RN, MSN, CCRC, FNP Copyright: Copyright Health Ink & Vitality Communications Asthma is more common in boys than girls. A. True B. False Submit Correct! Incorrect Answer: True. But while asthma is more common in boys than girls, it's also more common in women than men. The role of sex and sex hormones in causing asthma is still unknown. Take the Asthma Quiz › Related Conditions Allergies Chronic Bronchitis Bronchiolitis COPD Sinusitis Health News Today Feed Health Tip: Caring for a Sunburn 04/27/2012 Health Tip: What Constitutes 'Healthy Eating?' 04/27/2012 Kids' Kidney Transplant Rules May Have Shrunk 'Race Gap' 04/26/2012 Scientists Identify Gene Behind Pygmies' Short Stature 04/26/2012 Healthy Behaviors Extend Life After Cancer, Experts Say 04/26/2012 View More Asthma News Asthma Community I may have asthma Tue Feb 28 04:57:01 EST 2012 drug induced asthma Sat Nov 27 13:19:16 EST 2010 Sore, painful lungs after taking inhaler Sun Sep 19 15:44:54 EDT 2010 Question about Asthma Tests Tue Oct 13 06:10:42 EDT 2009 asthma unmanaged doc's stumped Sun May 31 22:22:59 EDT 2009 EXPERT Q + A Stem Cell Transplants Help Multiple Myeloma IN THE NEWS The allergy triggers inside can be the hardest to avoid. More about controlling indoor allergens › CHRONIC MIGRAINE QUIZ Chronic Migraine Quiz: Is it chronic migraine? HEALTH TESTS Depression Stubborn Psoriasis Rosacea Skin Test Schizophrenia Treatment SLIDESHOW Stepping Up Depression Treatment Better Medicine Logo POPULAR HEALTH SECTIONS Allergies and the Immune System Bones, Joints and Muscles Brain and Nerves Cancer Diabetes and the Endocrine System Digestive System Ear, Nose and Throat Eyes and Vision Female Reproductive System Food, Nutrition and Diet Genetics and Birth Defects Heart, Blood and Circulation Infections and Contagious Diseases Injuries and Wounds Kidneys and the Urinary System Lungs, Breathing and Respiration Male Reproductive System Mental Health and Behavior Metabolic System Mouth, Teeth and Oral Health Poisoning and Environmental Health Sexual Health Skin, Hair and Nails © Copyright 2012 Better Medicine. All Rights Reserved. ABOUT Better Medicine Privacy Policy User Agreement Advertising Policy Advertise With Us Editorial Policy Site 