
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 15:11:41 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.mumsnothavingchemo.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Mum's Not Having Chemo Mum's Not Having Chemo Skip to content home about mum me old blogs press contact ← Older posts Tweet week 32 The Budwig Diet Posted on February 7, 2012 by Laura After just a few weeks of intravenous vitamin C injections , Ozone therapy and manic supplement buying, Mum’s credit card had taken a battering. While Mum has been lucky enough to be able to afford these things, for many people alternative cancer treatments can be financially crippling. Why? Unlike radiotherapy and chemotherapy they are seldom covered by health insurance. So I’m happy this week to talk about a therapy that’s cheap, simple and which has paved the recovery for thousands of cancer patients. No appointments or airfares required for this one, all you need to start the Budwig Diet is a tub of cottage cheese and a bottle of flaxseed oil. Bill Henderson , a cancer coach who has helped over 8000 cancer patients reverse the disease, calls the Budwig protocol, ‘the cheapest health insurance you can buy.’ Bill became interested in alternative cancer treatments following his late wife Marjorie’s four-year battle with ovarian cancer. Bill maintains that Marjorie’s death was not the result of the cancer itself, but rather the endless rounds of chemotherapy she endured. After witnessing the pain she suffered, Bill embarked on more than a decade of research into alternative therapies and eventually stumbled upon the Budwig Diet which is now the backbone of his anti-cancer programme. So how does it work? ‘Basically, the Budwig protocol blasts the cancer cells with oxygen,’ writes Bill in his best-selling book Cancer Free . ‘…[C]ancer cells react to oxygenation the way a vampire would react to broad daylight: they shrivel up and die.’ The Facts on Flax Flaxseed oil is packed with omega 3 fatty acids, a group of nutrients that most of us have heard of by now. While the brain-boosting and anti-inflammatory properties of omega 3 have received a great deal of coverage in recent years, the role this vital nutrient plays in oxygenating our system is perhaps less well known. ‘Omega 3 works like a magnet on the cell membrane, attracting oxygen to the cell and also causing the oxygen to enter the cell,’ explains Bill Henderson in Cancer Free . Since flaxseed oil can oxygenate the blood, you might then wonder why the cottage cheese is required? The answer is simple. When you blend cottage cheese with flaxseed oil, the mixture becomes water-soluble and thanks to this water solubility the omega-3 fatty acids are effectively delivered to the cells. But Aren’t Dairy Products Bad? Yes – according to many experts, including Professor Jane Plant – dairy products can drive hormonal cancers. But Bill maintains that when you mix cottage cheese with flaxseed oil it ‘loses its dairy properties.’ Where ‘ Budwig’ Began In the 1950s Dr Johanna Budwig , one of Germany’s leading biochemists – and seven time Nobel prize nominee – discovered the right combination of essential fatty acids (found in flaxseed oil) and sulphur-based proteins (present in cottage cheese) could kill off cancer cells. After collecting and analyzing thousands of blood samples Dr Budwig discovered that the samples of the seriously ill (including cancer patients) were always deficient in one vital fatty acid – linoleic acid. She also found that the patients were often lacking albumin (a combination of linoleic acid and sulphur-based protein). Dr Budwig hypothesized that those suffering from serious illnesses could be returned to health by eating a diet high in these essential nutrients. Budwig tested her theory by feeding cancer patients a combination of 40 grams of flaxseed oil mixed with 100 grams of skim-milk proteins (the latest Budwig formula recommends low-fat cottage cheese in its place). Over a period of weeks, she noticed the tumours gradually receded. Since that time, thousands of people struggling with cancer– including those dealing with brain cancer and bone cancer – have become healthy again using this simple diet. Dr. Budwig (who died in 2003 at the age of 95) claimed to have had over a 90% success rate with her diet and protocol with all kinds of cancer patients over a 50 -year period. Dorothy McCord , who had liver cancer, ovarian cancer (with metastasis) and a low-grade brain tumour saw a dramatic shift in her condition after starting the Budwig Protocol. I’ve included an excerpt from her testimonial on the Budwig Centre website below: ‘I went to have an ultrasound done on my ovaries the other day, to see if anything has changed with the cysts on my ovaries. When I went, they told me that there were no cysts left (mind you one of them was the size of a lemon). My ovaries were totally clean. Also I had a MRI on my liver again, and that was good news as well. The mass on my liver has shrank in 4 months from being 6 cm to 1.1 cm. I can’t tell you how ecstatic I am. I am almost in shock over the amount of good news I have received this week. For a while now, every time I went to the doctor, I only received bad news. I am so happy, and more determent (sic) to stay on the program as long as it takes.’ William L Fischer’s fantastic book How to Fight Cancer & Win is filled with stories from people who have benefitted from the Budwig protocol. One of the most remarkable reports is from Keith O*, a sixteen year old who faced amputation due to an osteosclerotic sarcoma (bone tumour). I have included an extract of his story below: ‘He [Keith] was immediately started on an intensive program of radiation treatments, but still no improvement was noted. This young high-school track star said he would rather face death than lose his leg. The situation appeared hopeless. Keith’s distraught parents consulted with the most eminent doctors they could locate in many areas, but all confirmed the frightening prognosis. Only a meeting with Dr Johanna Budwig and her words of hope stopped the planned amputation in time. After just two weeks on the Budwig formula, Keith was able to completely extend his right leg…A medical examination conducted two months later revealed that the swelling of Keith’s involved leg had receded considerably and his blood count had returned to normal. Within just three months of starting on the regimen, he was back at school. The family reports that the Budwig formula remains a part of its daily diet. The entire family, including Keith, is in excellent health.’ How to Fight Cancer and Win ( pages 156-157) the flax flower Recent research supports Dr Budwig’s theory that flaxseed oil is like kryptonite to cancer cells. According to one Polish study the active elements in flaxseed oil kill cancer cells while bypassing healthy white blood cells . Another recent French study found that low levels of alpha-linolenic acid (found abundantly in flaxseed oil) were a predictor of increased risk of breast cancer . The study was published in the February 2000 issue of the European Journal of Cancer. Need to Know Make sure the flaxseed oil you buy is cold-pressed, virgin, unrefined and raw . The valuable (anti-cancer) fats in flaxseed are removed during the refining process that most commercial oils undergo. This routine process can include heating, bleaching, deodorizing, ‘defoaming’ as well as the addition of chemical preservatives. It’s also vital to refrigerate flaxseed oil and keep it away from sunlight since the oil oxidizes very rapidly. Cottage Cheese It must be low fat (less than 2%) and preferably organic. The Mixture The basic Budwig Diet consists of a daily dose of one or two tablespoon of flaxseed oil blended with half to one cup of low-fat cottage cheese. Seriously ill patients, including cancer patients, may need to consume higher quantities than this however I would strongly recommend that anyone considering this diet first consult a qualified practitioner and read all of the supporting literature on the subject. The Blending Process To produce the chemical reaction required for it to be a potent cancer fighter, the cottage cheese and flaxseed oil MUST be machine blended. Mum uses a hand-held immersion blender (previously reserved for vodka spaghetti sauce) to ensure the oil permeates the cottage cheese completely. She then adds a mixture of frozen berries and occasionally a teaspoon of stevia to sweeten her Budwig breakfast. You can ‘bespoke’ your Budwig by adding fresh herbs, raw vegetables, fruits, cinnamon, raisins… the list is endless. Fisher suggests adding finely grated cucumbers and radishes with some chopped tomatoes and a crumbling of dill. It’s important to blend the cottage cheese and flaxseed oil first  – to ensure they’re properly homogenized – before adding the other ingredients. If you’re interested in a coaching session with Bill Henderson ( he charges $180 for the service) click here . To read more about the Budwig Protocol go to the Budwig Centre website or scroll through the detailed report about it on the Cancer Tutor . Finally, I just wanted to say a huge thank you to all the people who got in touch following the piece that appeared in The Sunday Times Style Magazine in London. The emails were so uplilfting and I’m sorry that I haven’t yet had a chance to respond to all of you – being a one man band can make it tricky. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | 1 Comment Tweet week 31 ‘I also said no to chemo’ Posted on February 1, 2012 by Laura While we often read stories from cancer survivors who have chosen the conventional route, those who have taken the natural path are so rarely given a voice. But hearing from others who have taken the road less traveled and come out the other side can be just as important as any dietary change or treatment plan. In the last few months I’ve received a steady stream of emails from people telling me about their own alternative cancer journeys. These stories have filled Mum and I with hope and joy and so we thought we’d share with you some of these uplifting tales. Jessica Richards, 5-year breast cancer survivor In May 2007, I was diagnosed with a 3.5cm Stage two invasive, ductal carcinoma (a large breast cancer), and was recommended a partial or full mastectomy and removal of lymph nodes, intensive chemo, radiotherapy and five years of drugs. Nearly five years on I’m extremely fit and well having had no medical treatment whatsoever. I held off deciding on any particular treatment until I’d had a full diagnosis and seen the results of my tumour biopsy and lymph node biopsy. I then investigated each treatment I had been prescribed and the first thing I decided against was chemotherapy. I gradually became aware that what I was being offered was not necessarily my best option when weighed up against the risks from ‘side’ effects and the negligible benefits. Ultimately my choice was a simple one: A. If I’m going to live, could I face life with the long-term side effects of chemo and radiation, which would have impaired my health and wellbeing in the long term? The answer to that was, No. B. If I’m going to die anyway, do I want to spend the last year or so of my life in and out of hospital wishing I were dead? The answer to that was again, No. The alternative route seemed to offer me the best chance of recovery with no damaging side effects. I would like to make it very clear that I did not base any of my choices on belief. I simply made rational decisions based on the facts and evidence presented to me, in that I did everything I could to support my immune system (rather than destroy it) and at the same time, wreck the cancer environment within my body. When family and friends eventually found out about my decision their reactions ranged from, ‘Wow you’re bold!’ to, ‘What!?!’ I would like to add here that I did everything under medical supervision. I have friends and colleagues in Harley Street where I’ve been based for 20 years and I found a very supportive consultant who agreed to monitor me. My book includes an interview with him and other members of my medical and health care team. One of the most difficult aspects of choosing the alternative route was paying for all my treatments privately. I also had difficulty finding genuine clinics and practitioners from amongst the cranks and charlatans and those seeking to financially exploit cancer patients. Many people assumed my situation wasn’t very serious because I didn’t lose my hair and wasn’t in and out of hospital. I found, as a result, that sometimes I wasn’t offered the same level of support as those taking the conventional route. It seems that many people think hair-loss, sickness and general illness are caused by cancer rather than the treatments they’ve endured. I have little doubt that intravenous Vitamin C (which I had with Dr. Andre Young-Snell i n Brighton) was the most vital treatment to my recovery. In fact, when I had ultra sound scans at the time, the radiologist said that the tumour was breaking down in exactly the same way that a tumour breaks down with chemo. There’s no question in my mind that mental attitude is everything in cancer recovery and I have dedicated a chapter of my book to a step-by-step guide on how to develop the attitude to enable you to recover. It’s not what life presents to us which defines who we are but who we choose to be in relationship to it. The one piece of advice I would offer anyone facing a receiving a cancer diagnosis is, unless you’ve been told it is a medical emergency, TAKE YOUR TIME . I believe this was the best decision I made at the beginning and, interestingly, this advice was echoed when I later interviewed my team members. When diagnosed with cancer, we are all in a serious situation but few are in an immediately urgent one. We need to get over the shock of the diagnosis before we can even begin to think about some of the very complex and critical decisions we have to make. Jessica Richards is a leadership development specialist and author of The Topic of Cancer which can be purchased from Amazon or from her website: www.jessicarichards.co.uk Jane Wallis, 6-year bladder cancer survivor When I started getting up to go to the bathroom about four times every night, I knew that something was up and I decided to go for a check-up. The doctors initially thought I had a prolapse of the bladder, but a young trainee Chinese doctor working in the hospital knew it was more serious. She did a manual feel inside me and said she thought I had a tumour. But her diagnosis was dismissed: another doctor said to me she was ‘only a trainee’ and ‘didn’t know what she was talking about.’ Only when I started to hemorrhage lots of blood did the doctors agree that something was wrong, and after I had a camera inspection they found the cancer. It was rated T4- the most virulent type according to the specialists. They told me the only answer was to have my bladder and most probably my kidney removed as this had also stopped working due to the tumour’s location. On the same day I received the news we called in to see our good friend Dave on the way home. Dave – who had been convinced that the chemo treatment killed his first wife and not the cancer – put some apricot kernels into my hand and said ‘here, these are what you need!’ How right he was. My husband Nigel is a dowser and so we ‘asked’ if the apricot kernels and other dietary changes I’d researched were going to be good for me and the answer was ‘yes.’ I know many people believe that dowsing is all nonsense, but over the years I’ve found it incredibly helpful in many different areas. I also began to take Essiac Tea , various vitamins and Chinese herbs and I started to follow The pH Miracle diet . Within what seemed like a few days my symptoms improved.  So when the hospital contacted me to schedule my operation I told the surgeon’s PA that I had decided against it and that I was going to treat the cancer myself. I will always remember the total silence that followed, before she put the phone down. A few minutes later she rang again to ask what I was doing before telling me she hoped I realised my cancer was really bad. I assured her that I understood but this was my decision and that I would write to the surgeon to explain. A few days later I got a call from my local doctor asking me to come in and see him. He tried very hard to persuade me to have the surgery. As he was talking I glimpsed a copy of the letter I sent to the surgeon on his computer and saw that he had scrawled all over it with rude comments. One remark that I remember vividly was; ‘who does this bloody women think she is’. When the doctor realised I could see it he switched the computer off very quickly. That was the last time I went in any doctor’s surgery – over six years ago. It only took eight months for my body to be 100% cured after starting to take the apricot kernels and I’ve been well since then. My background in alternative healing no doubt informed the path I chose. I previously trained as a spiritual healer, and my teacher always said ‘cancer is the body’s suicide note, and it will carry it out unless the person changes’. She had noticed over many years that those who got better were the people who changed what was dysfunctional in their lives. So this really helped to give me strength to change what I knew I must. I now see my cancer as a kind of ‘temporary changing room’; somewhere where I ‘changed’ by getting rid of all the people, situations and habits that I had to ‘take off’ and leave behind. Certain books really helped me through this transformational process. Gregg Braden’s The Divine Matrix taught me that the world is not as it seems; that it’s jam-packed with the kind of miracles that the ‘white coats’ might tell you are impossible. Other eye opening books I read included Dirty Medicine by Martin Walker and Quantum Healing by Deepak Chopra. It was inspiring authors like these who showed me that the real healing is possible but you need to know and trust, deep down, that you will get better. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged apricot kernels , bladder cancer , breast cancer , natural cures , no to chemo , survivor stories , vitamin c | 9 Comments Tweet week 30 Medical Intuitives Posted on January 25, 2012 by Laura ‘Dis-aster’ means ‘from the stars,’ indicating a long-held belief that bad things happen for reasons known by the heavens.’ Caroline Myss, Sacred Contracts Ten months on, Mum now sees her cancer diagnosis as a much-needed ‘wake-up’ call from a life she was, in some ways, sleep-walking through: ‘I was in a bit of a bad place,’ Mum says of her previous emotional state. ‘I’d wake up each morning thinking ‘ here we go again,’ finding little pleasure in my daily routine. Although I had been given a great life, in many ways I felt stuck and powerless to make any changes.’ Caroline Myss , America’s most revered medical intuitive, believes that our ‘biography becomes our biology’; that every thought affects our tissue and that toxic memories reside in our cellular structure. When Mum first read Myss’ seminal work, Anatomy of the Spirit something clicked. She felt that her emotional state had, at least in part, contributed to her cancer and that turning her mindset around would be vital to her recovery. She also knew the reverse was true; that getting her body moving again would boost feel-good endorphins and elevate her mood. So, about six weeks after her hysterectomy, Mum resumed her sessions with Bogna Forbes, her pilates teacher and trusted friend. Mum was still feeling emotionally fragile and physically weak when she arrived at Bogna’s studio, but she put on a brave face and said breezily: ‘Hi Bogna, how are you?!’ Bogna tilted her head to the side and said: ‘So how are things going?’ ‘Fine, all-good!’ Mum insisted. ‘I don’t think so!’ said Bogna in her no nonsense tone. ‘ Ok, you’re right,’ Mum said, before telling Bogna what was on her mind. Bogna Forbes In sensing Mum’s anxiety and fear  and encouraging her to release it, Bogna could then work much more effectively on her body. ‘When we verbalize what’s going on in our head, blockages in the body disappear,’ Bogna explained, when I spoke to her recently. These ‘blockages’ can often arise from unresolved emotions or experiences , according to Bogna. ‘For instance, if you’ve been hurt emotionally, the lining around the heart starts to tighten; you start to build an anatomical wall to stop you getting hurt again,’ said Bogna.   ‘ So people who have been hurt will often start to hunch forward as if they are literally holding everything in.’ That’s not to say that everyone with a dowager’s hump has a broken heart – years spent squinting at a laptop will also do the trick – but there’s certainly some truth in the idea that our bodies start to mirror our minds. And some people, like Bogna, can intuitively pick this up: A few years ago Bogna was at a dinner party when an acquaintance of her husband limped up to her in the kitchen. ‘What are you carrying on your right hip?’ she asked him. ‘Are you carrying your sister?’ The man looked dumbfounded. Bogna was right, he’d spent years worrying and feeling responsible for his sister’s predicament. ‘Although I didn’t know anything about his sister, I just sensed, very strongly that his sister was the reason his hip was sore and he was limping,’ Bogna said. ‘I certainly can’t always intuit what’s happening in people’s lives – and what’s impacting their bodies- but sometimes if someone asks me a particular question, that information will come.’ While this might all sound a bit ‘ woo-woo ’ for some of you, anyone who’s familiar with the work of Caroline Myss, Bruce Lipton and Gregg Braden or watched ‘ The Living Matrix ’ ‘ Medical Renaissance- The Secret Code ’ or ‘ What the Bleep Do We Know ’ (and I’m slightly banking on the fact that some of you have) will know that our bodies are influenced by more than the food we eat, the drugs we take or the number of downward dogs we do. But for those of you who are sceptical of the mind’s power over the body, here is a bit of scientific theory: ‘ The newest research actually proves that when we feel stressed, the fascia – the connective tissue surrounding our muscles – becomes more dense ,’ said Bogna. While many conventional doctors merely see the fascia as ‘filling’ between our muscles, research over the last five years suggests it’s so much more than that : ‘Pioneers in fascial science – like Robert Schleip from Germany – are discovering that the fascia is more like the heart, a smooth muscle that contracts by itself and responds to emotional stimuli.’ So how does this relate to health and healing? ‘ When I put my fingers on someone’s body – whether it’s their foot, head, or knee – I can feel how a person’s energy moves through the fascia, and I can analyze very quickly what’s going on.’ Bogna’s healing skills have been a godsend for Mum. Following her hysterectomy Mum was left with a debilitating pain in her groin. When she mentioned it at her post-op, the doctors and nurses had no idea where the pain was coming from – but Bogna did. ‘There was an imbalance in your Mum’s pelvic floor muscle,’ Bogna said. ‘ So we worked on gently strengthening that muscle.’ A few sessions later? The pain vanished. While Bogna would never call herself a medical intuitive (although she admits to helping people heal from the age of four) there are others who have trained in the art and whose skills have been put to the test. Edgar Cayce was the most documented medical intuitive to date, with over 9,000 health readings performed over a 40-year-period. He had no medical training but his gift of medical prophecy, while in a deep trance, helped thousands of people during his lifetime (1877-1945). Then there is Caroline Myss. Two decades ago, Dr Norm Shealy , a Harvard-trained neurosurgeon, and founder of the prestigious American Holistic Medical Association, conducted a scientific blind study, which revealed Myss had a 93% accuracy rate in medical intuition. But Myss doesn’t see her Oprah-acclaimed talent as a gift; she views it as an acquired skill and now devotes much of her time to teaching others how to develop their intuitive abilities. Last week I spoke to Kim Illig , an intuitive healer from Seattle, who trained ( for seven years) with Caroline Myss and Norm Shealy. Rather than diagnosing disease (she leaves that to doctors) Illig helps clients identify and work through emotional patterns that might be stopping them from healing. ‘ When we get a serious diagnosis it can spark despair, fear, shame or anger and these emotions assist in tissue breakdown in the long term,’ said Illig. Kim Illig ‘ Blame – whether that’s blaming others or blaming yourself – can also contribute to the healing process being a lot slower and it’s something that we need to clear.’ So can anyone become a medical intuitive? ‘To me, all one has to do to become a medical intuit, theoretically, is have a passion for doing it, just like someone who loves piano would spend years practising and taking lessons,’ said Illig. ‘So in the world of intuitive healing we have the Mozarts, the Beethovens and the Chopins; we have famous concert pianists and we have people who play just for their family at Christmas. Using that metaphor I would consider myself to be a concert pianist –– but I really feel that everybody has the capacity to really know themselves; to be able to take information from their five sensory experience and interpret it in another sense.’ Whether we’re in rude health, on the road to recovery or feeling overwhelmed by the affects of a chronic disease, we all have the power to learn something from our physical experiences and choose not to let them define us. For years Caroline Myss was plagued by chronic pain and occasional bouts of depression. In Sacred Contracts she writes: ‘ These ailments did not begin to abate until I recognized that I myself had fallen prey to becoming a woundologist- someone who defines herself by the bad things that have happened to her.’ All of us, at some point, fall prey to dwelling on our past hurts – whether it’s a crap relationship or a life changing disease – but we’d do well to notice when we’re trapped in rumination and question whether it’s holding us back or helping us heal. Caroline Myss If you would like to know more about Kim Illig or schedule an appointment (she can conduct sessions over the phone) go to: www.kimillig.com or contact: kim@kimillig.com If you would like to book a pilates session with Bogna Forbes, you can email her at: b_janik@tpg.com.au . Her studio address is: 4/12 Station Street, Cottesloe, Perth Western Australia. If you live in the UK you might be interested in the work of Marie Hart, an intuitive healer, reiki master and qigong instructor: bio-identical-london.co.uk/ NEXT WEEK: Stories from other natural cancer survivors. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | 1 Comment Tweet week 29 Professor Ian Brighthope Posted on January 18, 2012 by Laura Photo from www.foodmatters.tv ‘What’s the number one thing you’re doing?’ …is a question Mum has been asked a lot in these last few months. While dealing with unresolved emotions and stress has been essential for Mum, if she were to name one cancer treatment that’s been most critical to her recovery, it would probably be intravenous vitamin C . Many others would agree – if the demand at Mum’s local clinic is anything to go by. In the lead up to Christmas it was particularly frenetic, with cancer patients desperate to get their IV C fix before the festivities got underway. While some patients, like Mum, use vitamin C as a standalone therapy, many others use it in combination with conventional treatments like chemotherapy. A few weeks ago, a close friend of mine got the all-clear following a round of chemo and she’s now keen to supercharge her immune system with intravenous C. She recently asked me how it worked and I found myself getting tongue-tied. So I thought I’d enlist the help of Australia’s leading expert in IV C – Professor Ian Brighthope. Many of you will recognise Professor Brighthope – a medical doctor and surgeon – from the hit documentary Food Matters . He has been treating patients with intravenous vitamin C for over 35 years, and, as the previous president of the Australian College of Nutritional & Environmental Medicine (ACNEM), he’s well placed to talk about how it works. Here’s what he had to say: What are the benefits of having vitamin C therapy alongside conventional treatments? ‘Every benefit in the world,’ said Brighthope. ‘ It reduces the toxic effects of chemotherapy, it accelerates the healing after chemotherapy, it reduces the inflammation caused by radiotherapy, it boosts the immune system, it suppresses the bacteria and viruses that may be implicated in causing or aggravating the growth of cancer and it stimulates white blood cells to mop up dead cancerous tissue and fight infection.’ Phew, that’s an impressive list. So where did you learn about the benefits of high-dose Vitamin C ? ‘I had some clues from Linus Pauling in the US, but I basically taught myself,’ said Brighthope. ‘I used vitamin C experimentally in a cancer patient who was terminal – and the patient lived for another seven years.’ Where it all began More than thirty years ago, Dr Linus Pauling and Dr Ewan Cameron conducted a number of studies, looking at the effect of vitamin C therapy in cancer patients. In 1971, 100 terminal cancer patients were given 10g (10,000 mg) of vitamin C intravenously a day, compared to a control group of 1000 patients who were treated by conventional methods only. (Just to give you some idea of how much vitamin C we’re talking – the RDI in Australia is 45mg per day). Five years after the beginning of the study, 18 of the 100 vitamin C-treated patients were still living while all 1000 of the control patients had died (Tomorrow’s Cancer Cures TODAY, Dr Allan Spreen) More recent research supports these findings. One Japanese study found those suffering from cancer of the uterus lived 15 times longer on vitamin C therapy (International Journal for Vitamin and Nutrition Research, 1982) and last year, New Zealand scientists confirmed that vitamin C helped inhibit tumour growth . But it’s not just cancer patients who benefit from high-dose vitamin C – in 2009 a New Zealand dairy farmer miraculously recovered from a severe case of swine flu after intravenous C was administered at the eleventh hour . The doctors wanted to turn off this man’s life support, but his family insisted he have the treatment. You can watch the incredible story here (thank you Marie for sharing). … Back to Brighthope ‘ For acute problems, like an acute virus that’s going to kill somebody, it’s important to give vitamin C as an injection,’ said Brighthope. Why? ‘You cannot achieve the extremely high physiological level that severely ill patients require by taking it orally, because the more you take orally, the less of a percentage of a dose is absorbed,’ said Brighthope. The Mayo Clinic study (often cited by conventional doctors as evidence Vitamin C doesn’t work) is a case in point. Shortly after Pauling and Cameron released the results from their groundbreaking vitamin C study, researchers from the Mayo clinic ran a similar trial - with one key difference.  While Pauling and Cameron administered 10g vitamin C intravenously , the Mayo participants were given the same dose orally . And -surprise, surprise- the vitamin C made no difference to survival rates. So why don’t more people know about Vitamin C? ‘It’s very difficult …when you’ve got a very established profession that’s been dominated by the idea of diseases and drugs and surgery and radiotherapy; a profession that doesn’t know anything about health, yet is a health profession,’ explained Brighthope. Is it illegal, in Australia, for an oncologist to recommend a patient try vitamin C therapy? ‘No. In fact it’s morally the correct thing to do for an oncologist to support whatever a patient – and or the patient’s family – wants for them. Also, the patient does have legal rights to a therapy that may be unproven. From a legal point of view they have to practise along accepted guidelines, but the accepted guidelines for oncologists, may not be in the best interests of the patient,’ said Brighthope. ‘Put it this way, if the patient presents to the oncologist with a cancer, and the patient is malnourished and has a lack of protein; a lack of vitamins; a lack of minerals; a lack of essential fatty acids and other deficiencies of nutrients; the oncologist will take absolutely no notice … and will still go ahead with oncology – and oncological drugs – drugs that will compromise the patient’s health even further,’ said Brighthope. But change is afoot. ‘It has been interesting to see how something [high dose vitamin c] that was regarded as absolute quackery, has become mainstream,’ said Brighthope. ‘In many respects we are at the forefront here in Australia with regard to nutritional medicine. It’s actually now recognised as a part of the GP training from the Royal Australian College of Medicine.’ Other countries are following suit. In the UK there’s pioneers like Dr Patrick Kingsley ( as well as Dr Wendy Denning and Dr Nicola Hembry ) in America there’s legends like Dr Gary Gordon and in Mexico you have the likes of Dr Contreras – who have long prescribed IV C to help cancer patients achieve the all-clear. As I’ve mentioned before the natural cancer journey is anything but clear. Alternative practitioners can be hard to come by, dietary advice can be contradictory and it can be difficult to know where to find the purest and best supplements and products. It’s for that reason that I’ve mentioned specific brand names on this website – they are products we have both researched and Mum has tried – and we thought people might like to know about them. But I was given pause for thought last week when two subscribers questioned whether I was benefiting financially from product endorsements. I can tell you, with hand on heart, that Mum and I make nothing from this blog ( in fact, on a few occasions, I’ve turned down paid work so that I have enough time to ensure the blog goes up). It is a labour of love, but one I do gladly, as Mum and I find the feedback, suggestions and stories from other readers profoundly life-affirming. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged ACNEM , brighthope , Dr Brighthope , Food Matters , intravenous vitamin c , IV c , Linus Pauling , professor brighthope , vitamin c | 28 Comments Tweet week 28 LifeWave Patches Posted on January 11, 2012 by Laura They’ve helped fire victims in Victoria sleep at night. They’ve boosted the performance and stamina of the US Olympic swimming team. They’ve even aided thousands of earthquake victims in Italy. As a result they’ve now been introduced into the Italian health care system. A few months ago, when the Adelaide Advertiser ran a story about Mum’s alternative cancer journey, a man called Bob Harding contacted us (one of the many inspiring people we’ve connected with since starting this blog). Bob has been a distributor of LifeWave patches for the last three years, after witnessing first-hand, their amazing benefits: ‘I went along to the LifeWave meeting thinking ‘ this is probably going to be a load of crap’ but after seeing the product in action, I joined up as a member.’ A pair of LifeWave patches were placed on Bob’s neck and almost immediately, his debilitating neck pain – which had plagued him for twenty years – disappeared. Since then, Bob has seen the patches dramatically improve the condition of those suffering from arthritis, autism, ADHD, insomnia, lethargy as well as serious illnesses like cancer – although he is at pains to mention the patches are not responsible for the cure of any disease. Nonetheless, when you hear about the man who literally got up out of a wheelchair after being patched – or of the lady, riddled with cancer and sent home to die, who’s still alive two years after trying LifeWave – you appreciate the patches are more than a band-aid approach to healing. Bob will say the patches have been shown to help a variety of conditions common to cancer sufferers, like pain, lack of energy and depression. ‘We’ve helped hundreds of people and we have so many stories – it’s been quite an incredible journey,’ he told me. You can read some of the inspiring testimonials on the website. So What Are the Patches? The LifeWave patches are the brainchild of David Schmidt , who spent three years researching ways to increase energy and stamina through using the body’s electromagnetic field. According to David, the patches promote chemical reactions in the body by acting as a transmitter to boost your electron flow. Last year LifeWave made the Inc 5000 list of fastest growing companies in the US – for the third consecutive year – and the company has a league of medical professionals and celebrities behind them including Dr Norm Shealy and Suzanne Sommers . In her best-selling book Knockout (a must-read for anyone embarking on the alternative cancer journey) Sommers says: ‘ I love these patches. They are nondrug and do the job perfectly. I couldn’t be without them, and David Schmidt is a genius for creating them.’ What Can The Patches Do? Where to start? There are seven different patches and they can be used – together or alone – for a variety of different things, in sickness and in health. Athletes will want the Energy Enhancer patches, those with a spare-tyre might use the SP6 patches to stave off hunger. Then there are the IceWave patches for pain… and for insomniacs? Silent Nights are the knights in shining armour. One of the most heartwarming stories Bob told me was about how these patches had transformed the life of a Korean War veteran. This 90-year-old man has spent the best part of a century waking up screaming. Now, thanks to the Silent Knight patches, him (and his wife) sleep at night. The BIG Hitters If you’re fighting a life-threatening disease, like cancer, the Y-age Carnosine and the Y-age Glutathione patches are likely to help you the most. As some of you may recall, Mum and I are big believers in glutathione – this vital antioxidant can neutralize free radicals, boost natural killer cells and detoxify the liver. (You can read more about it here ). Sadly, most of us don’t produce enough glutathione. In a recent study these non-transdermal patches were shown to increase levels of glutathione in the body by a whopping 454% . In the same study, urine mercury levels spiked in some of the subjects, suggesting the increased levels of glutathione were also aiding detoxification. ‘ The patch has a massive detoxing effect, it literally draws the drugs, chemicals, mercury straight out of the body,’ said Bob. The glutathione patches can also improve organ function: ‘ If you put the glutathione patch or the carnosine patch on an acupuncture point – say the lung meridian, or the heart meridian – you will help repair those organs and that has been clinically measured.’ In one published study (and there are many more on this page if you’re interested) the carnosine patch, worn 12 hours daily on alternative days over a period of two weeks, resulted in a ‘very significant’ improvement in the functional status of the pancreas, liver, right kidney, left and right adrenals, hypothalamus, pituitary and thyroid glands . Not only is carnosine a powerful free radical scavenger, cell repairer and chelator – it’s also renowned for it’s anti-ageing properties. Thus the patch’s name ‘Y-Age-Carnosine’. Better than Crème de la Mer? ‘ All the wrinkles on my forehead have just about gone and the age spots have practically disappeared,’ said Bob. His varicose veins have vanished too. Mum has been using the patches for a few months now and, along with feeling more alert and energized (she can kayak all day) she’s had plenty of people tell her how well she looks. Of course looks are of little concern when you’re dealing with cancer – or so you think until you get a compliment. While Mum has been happy to forgo expensive face creams for organic, non-toxic alternatives since her diagnosis, she hasn’t entirely let go of her desire to hold back the years. Could these patches be the answer? Who knows, but there’s certainly truth in getting your beauty sleep. More Info: If you want to find out more about LifeWave visit lifewave.com or, if you live in Australia, feel free to contact Bob Harding directly: bob@lifewaveaus.com.au . A packet containing 30 patches retails from US$79.95 (plus postage and tax) and can be purchased directly from a member of LifeWave or from the website. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged Bob Harding , carnosine , energy patches , glutathione , LifeWave , pain , patches , sleep , Sommers , Suzanne Sommers | 5 Comments Tweet week 27 Frankincense & Mistletoe Posted on December 21, 2011 by Laura I was going to make this blog-post a light-hearted one…something about simple holiday pleasures (falling asleep while reading about Eleanor of Aquitaine) or maybe a little vignette about the deeper appreciation of Christmas, when someone you love has had cancer. I figured – ‘who has the time, or the inclination, to read about clinical trials and cancer treatments when there’s champagne to be popped and hangovers to be nursed?’ But then… Mum came home from Ozone therapy yesterday and mentioned that one of her friends had been advised – by an American practitioner- to rub frankincense into the area where her cancer was. So it seemed like the right time to share with you a little about how frankincense and mistletoe might help with cancer– and if you’re not in the mood, then feel free to save this for the New Year, when you’re not trying to stuff a turkey or wrap-up a skateboard. Three Wise Men No wonder frankincense was chosen by one of the Magi to give to baby Jesus. Thousands of years ago it was equal in value to gold; the Ancient Egyptians, who used frankincense in many of their rituals and purification ceremonies, thought it to be the ‘sweat of the Gods’, while the Greeks and Romans used it to treat a wide variety of diseases. Indeed, if the three wise men had arrived in Bethlehem a little earlier their gift of frankincense might have helped Mary through her childbirth: it is thought to reduce hyperventilation during labour . Today frankincense – which comes from the resin of the Boswellia Sacra tree – is used to treat depression, gout, eczema, scarring, insomnia AND cancer. According to medical research it’s been shown to halt the proliferation of numerous cancer cells, including leukemia cells , melanoma cells , bladder cancer cells , colon cancer cells, pancreatic cancer, and prostate cancer cells. Mahmoud Suhail, an immunologist, has been studying the beneficial effects of frankincense for years. He’s currently working alongside medical scientists from the University of Oklahoma to determine just how frankincense stops cancer from spreading. ‘Cancer starts when the DNA code within the cell’s nucleus becomes corrupted,’ he explained recently in a BBC interview . ‘It seems frankincense has a re-set function. It can tell the cell what the right DNA code should be.  Frankincense separates the ‘brain’ of the cancerous cell – the nucleus – from the ‘body’ – the cytoplasm, and closes down the nucleus to stop it reproducing corrupted DNA codes.’ The highest quality frankincense comes from Oman – but you needn’t cross-deserts to get hold of it – you can buy it online from Young Living Oils (be sure to order the essential frankincense oil rather than the sacred frankincense oil). As a little aside, you might also be interested in the therapeutic benefits of the other Wise Man gift – Myrrh. It’s meant to help with sore throats, gum disorders, inflammation, digestive problems and cellulite. You can read more about it here . Kissing Cancer Goodbye More than just an excuse for a Christmas party smooch, Mistletoe is the most commonly used oncological drug in Germany . Thousands of years ago, the druids of Europe also used it as a contraceptive (strange to think that an old-school prophylactic is now hung above doors to encourage wanton behaviour). But I digress… 8 MIILLION cancer patients have benefited from Mistletoe – in conjunction with conventional therapies – over the past few decades, according to one report, from the Mapapo Institute (German – Argentine Institute for Oncologic and Immunologic Investigations). Iscador, a specific extract of Mistletoe, has been used in controlled pilot studies in the Berlin University, Witten/Herdecke, Germany and the University of California, San Francisco, USA, for breast, colon, prostate, brain, intestine cancer, cervical dysplasia, ovary, stomach and lungs, and in metastasis processes. One study, published in the journal Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine in 2001, looked at the survival times of patients with cancer of the colon, rectum, stomach, breast and lung. 1668 patients were treated with Iscador while 8475 had conventional treatment only. Survival time in the Iscardor group was roughly 40% longer than in the control groups . So How Does it Work? Mistletoe can increase natural-killer cells and increase the cytotoxicity of macrophages (in other words, it puts the guns in the hands of the good guys). According to Dr Keith Scott-Mumby in Cancer Research Secrets there are different forms of Mistletoe based on the tree from which it is harvested. So you have M for Malus ( apple); P for Pinus (pine); Q for Quercus (oak); and U for Ulmus (elm) with each having specific benefits for different types of cancer. So it’s worth doing your research if you’re considering adding Mistletoe to your treatment arsenal. It’s also important to note that mistletoe can be toxic and you need to find a qualified homeopath or alternative doctor who can treat you safely. The cancer charity Yes to Life has an extensive list of practitioners – mostly in Europe – on their website. http://www.yestolife.org.uk/treatment_display.php/15 Mince Pie Therapy If only…. I would also like to end by saying a huge thank you for your support, stories and suggestions over the last few months. Having such lovely feedback from you has been as important to Mum as the advice from her practitioners. May the learning and sharing continue, and may health, happiness and hope follow you all through 2012. Merry Christmas Xx For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged frankincense , iscador , iscardor , Mahmoud Suhail , mistletoe , Myrrh , Young Living Oils | 24 Comments Tweet week 26 A Kernel of Truth Posted on December 14, 2011 by Laura Ever heard of Vitamin B17? It’s found in apricot kernels, bitter almonds and various other fruits and seeds – and there’s evidence, dating back 2700BC, of it’s incredible healing properties. In his book B17 Metabolic Therapy in the prevention and control of Cancer Phillip Day lists a few historic references: ‘The great Persian apothecary and medical practitioner Avicenna used bitter almond oil to treat tumours of the uterus, spleen, stomach and liver.’ ‘In the 13 th century…Myreposos, a Byzantine physician, used bitter almonds to treat cancer of the oral cavity. In the same century Ibn-Al-Baitar was also using bitter almonds to treat breast cancer. Later, in the 16 th century, we find a Swiss biologist called Gesner using the same almonds to treat cancer. … By the 19 th century, bitter almonds were an accepted treatment for cancer both on the Old Continent and in the New World.’ In the1970s cancer doctors around the world – Dr Manuel Navarro (Philippines), Dr  Ernesto Contreras (Mexico) and Dr Hans Nieper (Germany) Dr Philip Binzel (America) – were experimenting with B17  ( also known as Laetrile and amygdalin) and witnessing phenomenal results. During a visit to the US in 1972 Dr Nieper told reporters: ‘ After more than twenty years of such specialized work, I have found non-toxic nitrilosides – that is, Laetrile – far superior to any other known cancer treatment or preventative. In my opinion it is the only existing possibility for the ultimate control of cancer.’ So how can apricot kernels reverse cancer? Cancer cells contain an enzyme called beta-glucosidase – this makes up part of the cancer cell ‘wall.’ When this enzyme comes into contact with nitrilosides, an amazing transformation occurs – much like when Eric eats a banana . These nitrilosides turn into the tumourcidal trio of glucose, benzaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide. This trio attack cancer cells while leaving healthy cells alone. Want proof? Dr Binzel’s book Alive and Well is full of testimonies from cancer patients brought back from the brink with Laetrile and nutritional therapy. One 44-year-old woman with metastasized colon cancer was still cancer free, 13 years after being treated with Laetrile (no chemo, no radio). The odds of her reaching a 5 year survival had she undergone ‘conventional’ therapy? One in a thousand. Then there’s Polly Todd, a 59-year-old woman who was diagnosed with breast cancer (spread to her lymph nodes) in 1975. She was told her odds of survival were ‘slim’ and she was urged to have chemotherapy and radiation. Instead she chose to have Laetrile and nutritional therapies with Dr Binzel. When his book was published – 19 years later – she was 79 years old and had not had a recurrence of the disease. Dr Binzel decided to ditch chemo and radio in the 1970s and start treating his patients with nutritional therapies instead. In Alive and Well he acknowledges this choice wasn’t an easy one: ‘ My biggest problem at the time was understanding nutrition. In four years of medical school, one year of Family Practice residency, I had not had even one lecture on nutrition.’ Of the 180 patients Dr Binzel treated with primary cancer 87.3 % did not die of their cancer after 18 years. In the year that Dr Binzel published his results the American Cancer Society was officially reporting that with conventional treatment – involving early detection and primary cancer – 85% of cancer patients would die within five years. A Deadly Poison? The FDA would have you believe that, since Laetrile contains cyanide, it’s dangerously toxic. To borrow a cockney phrase that’s just plain ‘chicken oriental’ (mental). A tonne of toxicity studies have been done on B17 confirming that it’s harmless to healthy cells. (I won’t bore you with them now, but feel free to click here if you’re interested.) You only need look at the Hunza people in the Himalayas to know that a diet rich in apricot seeds will keep you in near perfect health. The Hunzas are renowned for their longevity – it is common for a Hunzakut to live to be over 100 years old. It is also extremely uncommon for the Hunzakuts to get cancer. But Laetrile is dangerous to some people – namely conventional oncologists, radiologists and anyone else who’s likely to lose out from the therapy becoming widely available. To understand just how much of a threat laetrile/B17/apricot kernels is to the cancer establishment, it’s worth reading Ralph Moss’ book The Cancer Industry . Ralph Moss was a Phd science writer when he was hired to work at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre in 1974. He later became an assistant of public affairs where he was told to distribute negative statements about Laetrile. The following is taken from his now famous interview with radio show host Laura Lee . RM. …Shortly after I went to work there I went to visit an elderly Japanese scientist, Kanematsu Sugiura , who astonished me when he told me he was working on Laetrile (B17), at the time it was the most controversial thing in cancer ..reputed to be a cure for cancer. We in public affairs were giving out statements that Laetrile was worthless, it was quackery, and people should not abandon proven therapies. I was astonished that our most distinguished scientist would be bothering with something like this, and I said why are you doing this if it does not work. He took down lab books and showed me that in fact Laetrile is dramatically effective in stopping the spread of cancer. The animals were genetically programmed to get breast cancer and about 80 – 90% of them normally get spread of the cancer from the breast to the lungs which is a common route in humans, also for how people die of breast cancer, and instead when they gave the animals Laetrile by injection only 10-20% of them got lung metasteses. And these facts were verified by many people, including the pathology department. LL So this is verified, that Laetrile can have this positive effect? RM We were finding this and yet we in public affairs were told to issue statements to the exact opposite of what we were finding scientifically, and as the years went by I got more rapped up in this thing and 3 years later I said all this in my own press conference, and was fired the next day, “for failing to carry out his most basic job responsibility”–ie to lie to the public what goes on in cancer research. ……… But even those who know the truth about Laetrile face an uphill battle getting hold of it. Phillip Day, photo from Food Matters A few years ago Phillip Day looked into what was required to sell Laetrile in England. They health authorities informed him that he simply needed to buy a licence… and come up with 150 million to buy the licence. ‘Here in England no doctor is going to advertise that he does Laetrile,’ Day said when I spoke to him recently. ‘It’s not that Laetrile is illegal, it’s that it’s unlicensed.’ You can order apricot kernels, grown without pesticides or other chemicals, from the Credence Website . ‘The great thing about apricot kernels is they come with their own enzymes. So they’re a belt and braces treatment in one,’ said Day. A Kernel of Confusion The vital difference between eating the apricot kernals and having Laetrile/B17 injections is that the latter must be done in conjunction with enzymes. Pancreatic enzymes are essential to break the shell of the cancer cell – so the Laetrile can get in and do its work. You can read more about enzymes here . Mum discovered this vital information when she was chatting to her friend Barbara while having Laetrile one day. Barbara recommended she take a particular enzyme supplement called Univase Forte. Barbara’s son is currently battling brain cancer and, as you can imagine, she’s doing everything in her power to ensure he has the best chance of survival. But sometimes the red-tape that surrounds so many of these alternative treatments, makes her feel like she’s banging her head against a brick wall. A few weeks ago there was a problem with Barbara’s order of Laetrile. Having Laetrile therapy in Australia requires you to jump through so many hoops it would test even a Cirque Du Soleil performer and, with all the calls to Mexico and complicated forms to fill out, it also demands the patience of a saint. And that’s just who Barbara decided she needed to call on a few weeks ago. When her son had gone two weeks without Laetrile Barbara started to panic – and pray. For three consecutive nights she called upon Archangel Raphael , who looks over healers and healing, to aid in the swift delivery of this much needed medicine. On the fourth day she called Australian Customs to find out whether it had arrived. A young man picked up the phone. ‘I’m so sorry but we’re just drowning in packages at the moment – it could be days until I can even let you know whether yours is here.’ Barbara explained how desperate she was for the package and the man promised to do his best. She left her number. About an hour later he called her back with good news. ‘ I can’t believe it! Your package was sticking out the top of the pile – I’ll have it to you by tomorrow.’ Barbara thanked the man profusely. ‘What is your name?’ she asked. ‘Raphael’ he replied. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged amygdalin , apricot kernels , apricots , b17 , bitter almonds , Dr Hans Nieper , Dr Navarro , Dr Philip Binzel , Dr. Contreras , Hunzas , laetrile , navarro , philip day | 6 Comments Tweet week 25 Modified Citrus Pectin Posted on December 6, 2011 by Laura ‘What was that anti-cancer thing Frieda mentioned?’ Mum wondered aloud, a few days after her diagnosis. She didn’t have to wonder long. Frieda, one of Mum’s oldest friends, telephoned as soon as she heard the news: ‘Don’t forget about Modified Citrus Pectin!’ she said. Years ago, Frieda had told Mum about a friend who cured himself of a ‘nasty’ case of prostate cancer, with the help of modified citrus pectin (MCP). When his wife got breast cancer, a few years later, she also conquered the disease using this powerful remedy. Mum took the MCP, in powder form, every morning for the first three months following her surgery. She mixed ten grams a day in a small glass of juice and apparently, it was fairly easy to take. (The same can’t be said for all anti-cancer concoctions – Mum’s Graviola mix is always taken with a grimace). What is Modified Citrus Pectin? Pectin is found in the peel of apples, citrus fruits and plums and is often used to make jellies. But while ordinary pectin might make your dessert wobble, it won’t shake your cancer. Why? Because it cannot be absorbed by the digestive system. Modified citrus pectin on the other hand, comes from the pulp and rinds of citrus fruits – like oranges and grapefruits – which have been altered to produce shorter sugar chains. Thanks to these shorter sugar chains, the pectin is more easily absorbed through the intestinal tract and into the bloodstream. MCP halts Metastasis For cancer cells to metastasize, or spread, they must clump together. Substances on the surface of cancer cells called ‘galectins’ are thought to be responsible for this. One specific ‘lectin’ called galectin-3 has been linked to cancer development. Elevated levels have been found in tissue samples of thyroid cancer , breast cancer and pituitary cancer . Galectin-3 has also been shown to play a role in metastasis . Galectin Assassin Research now shows that a substance in MCP called ‘galactose’, can block cancer cells from clumping-together and taking over. Over the last ten years researchers have found that MCP can block metastasis in a myriad of different cancers including skin cancers, prostate cancer and breast cancer. In one study involving melanoma cells, MCP decreased tumour metastasis to the lung by more than 90% . Another study, published in the journal Oncology , found that 20.7% of patients with advanced solid tumours taking MCP, showed a clinical benefit. Mopping up the Underlying Cause MCP is also known as a powerful chelating agent, meaning it can draw toxins out of the body. What does this have to do with cancer? A lot. ‘Until toxicity is effectively addressed, no significant advance in cancer survival will ever happen,’ writes Dr Rashid Buttar says in The 9 Steps to Keep the Doctor Away . Dr Patrick Holford goes further: ‘ Possibly one of the most underestimated contributors to the epidemic of cancer is the combined effect of humanity’s exposure to man made chemicals.’ Say No to Cancer . Chemical exposure is frequently cited as a risk factor for childhood cancers. One US study found children with brain cancer were more likely to have been exposed to insecticides in the home. It’s also been suggested that agricultural chemicals are responsible for the increase in certain cancers among farmers. (page 88 Say No to Cancer ). But you don’t need to live next to Big-Agri to dose up on chemicals. A quick trip to the dentist, a glass of tap water, a gasp of air will insure you imbibe your fair share of lead, cadmium, mercury and more. And if you don’t believe these chemicals cause cancer just take a cursory look at some of the studies on Toxline. You’ll find 643 studies linking mercury with cancer alone . So detoxing is essential for anyone interested in optimal heath, not just for cancer patients. But it needs to be done safely, and that’s where MCP comes in. When you go on a detox-programme, you release toxins stored in your fat-cells. When the toxins are released into the blood stream they can travel to your heart, your brain, your kidneys – wreaking havoc. But when you take MCP, it circulates in the bloodstream, latching onto toxins before they reach your vital organs. MCP’s awesome ability to eliminate toxins from the body was demonstrated in a recent USDA study . Scientists gave MCP to people for six days and then tested the amount of toxins excreted in their urine. After just twenty-four hours the amount of arsenic in patients urine increased by 130%, the amount of mercury increased by 150%, the amount of cadmium increased by 230% and the amount of toxic lead increased why a whopping 560%. MCP is so safe it’s been tested on five year olds suffering from lead poisoning. Back to Galectins Galectin-3 has recently been implicated in heart disease . Elevations of galectin-3 were found in nearly two thirds of patients hospitalized for heart failure, according to a recent report from the Health Sciences Institute . Thankfully all you need to do to lower your levels is to dose up on modified grapefruit pulp! So let’s just re-cap. Modified Citrus Pectin might stop your cancer in its tracks, save you from a heart attack AND rid your body of deadly poisons. That’s an impressive list of health benefits. But if you’re going to entrust a supplement with such vital tasks you want to make sure you’re getting the real deal. While a few different health brands produce MCP, there’s one that comes up time and time again and it’s called PectaSol C by Econugenics Inc: www.econugenics.com . It can sometimes be tricky to order supplements from America, but I’ve just spoken to Buffy at Eco Nugenics who assures me they ship to Australia. For international orders you need to call this number (0011) 707-521-3370. After discussing this week’s post with Mum she has now ordered another batch – it can be easy to forget certain anti-cancer gems when there’s so many to consider. But when you peel back the layers, you find a few things worth sticking too. For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged Dr rashid buttar , Eco Nugenics , Galectin-3 , galectins , Graviola , lectin , MCP , metastasis , modified citrus pectin , PectaSol C , pectin | 6 Comments Tweet week 24 Documentaries, the new drugs? Posted on November 30, 2011 by Laura There’s no way of getting around it. When you’re told you have cancer, there’s going to be some nightmare moments, whatever path you take. The overwhelming desire to go back to an old, pre-cancer, reality is torturous, to say the least. And I’m only getting this second-hand. For Mum, the first few weeks were pretty grim. After a particularly trying weekend I remember her saying, ‘Is this it? Is this what my life is going to be like now?’ Before she’d started to heal, and before we’d discovered just how many cancer miracles were out there, it all seemed a bit hopeless. But then we started to watch, to read to listen – and if you were very quiet, you could hear the hope trickle in. If someone you love gets cancer, don’t send them comfort food (too much of a minefield). Send them one of these life-affirming DVDs instead: Medical Renaissance – The Secret Code Watch it because… it’s like being wrapped-up in a toasty warm towel. In the opening scene you see the quirky Dr Norm Shealy feeding his horse ‘Spotlight’ while the sun rises in Missouri. Your heart rate slows. The Gist… Three desperate patients, all with chronic conditions and/or depression, are given a chance to transform their lives. In 90 minutes you’re given a glimpse into what the future of healing will look like – a future where Aspirin and Xanax make way for ‘natural narcotics’, past life therapy and copper pyramids and Tesla cords. Shealy pulls no punches about conventional medicine and the ‘PharmacoMafia’ but his infectious laugh and laid-back manner seems to say ‘change comes slowly’ – and with a smile. Best Lines… ‘As my father said, common sense, is the most uncommon commodity.’ ‘It’s a lot easier to say, ‘My back hurts,’ than ‘My life hurts.’ www.medicalrenaissance.net Cancer is Curable Now Watch it because… You’re probably the only one who hasn’t. The Gist… Marcus Freudenmann and his wife Sabrina, a naturopathic doctor, traveled the world with their four children interviewing world-renowned cancer experts – the likes of Dr. Connealy, Dr Douwes , Dr Gary Gordon – rockstars of the alternative cancer world. The movie is shocking (‘people aren’t dying of cancer, they’re dying of the treatment’) illuminating (‘BPA is one of the main causes of prostate and breast cancer’) and uplifting – just listen to the stories of patients with bone, lung and liver cancer cured by Hyperthermia . Best Lines… ‘ We need to change people from victims to ‘victors’ of cancer.’ ‘ Many years from now people will look back at this time and wonder what kind of Neanderthals we were.’ www.canceriscurablenow.com Burzynski: The Movie Watch it Because… If someone you love has been given a death sentence – Dr Burzynksi could be their life-line. The Gist… The Texas Medical Board (and the FDA) has waged a ten-year war on Dr Burzynski. Why? Because he’s dared to create a cancer treatment that actually works – Antineoplastons – and Cancer Inc is missing out on the windfall. The remarkable stories from patients will have you both bawling your eyes out and boiling with anger. Read more about his story – and how you can help him in his latest legal battle – here . Best Lines… ‘Dr. Burzynski had MRIs of brain tumors, known to be almost universally fatal, that had simply disappeared. It was obvious to me that Dr. Burzynski had made the most important discovery in cancer treatment — ever.’ Dr Julian Whitaker ‘not withstanding that… it’s possible to indict a ham sandwich – probably there’s not much there.’ Comment from a committee member, during the 1995 grand Jury – the 5 th against Burzynski. www.burzynskimovie.com Rooted Watch it Because… your teeth matter more than you think. The Gist… When you have a root canal filling (a procedure to ‘save’ a dead tooth) you run the risk of developing cancer, sinusitis, Multiple Sclerosis, arthritis and more . This documentary will have your stomach churning at the toxic substances routinely deployed by dentists (some products don’t meet the safety standards for the sewage system) and thinking twice about where you want to book your next check-up. Best Lines… ‘ Dentistry is the only medical profession that thinks it’s a good idea to keep dead, gangrenous tissue in the body.’ ‘A tooth that is dead is dead is dead. There’s no such thing as a little bit dead.’ www.rooted.tv Food Matters Watch it because …it will send shivers up your spine (just re-watching the trailer gave me goosebumps). The Gist … Featuring some of today’s most recognisable health heroes this revolutionary documentary demonstrates how vitamin C can cure cancer , why B3 is better than prozac and why 106,000 people die every year in America from pharmaceutical drugs. ‘I love that film, not just because I’m in it, but because people watch it and their attitude immediately changes,’ said Phillip Day when I spoke to him recently. ‘All of a sudden they’re not resentful when you start explaining the changes they need to make to their lifestyle – they really understand why they need to do these things.’ Best Lines… ‘ Good health makes a lot of sense, but it doesn’t make a lot of dollars.’ Andrew Saul ‘ You can be sincere, and you can be sincerely wrong.’ Phillip Day www.foodmatters.tv/ The Living Matrix Watch in Because… the sooner you understand that your thoughts affect your biology , the sooner you can change them. The Gist… The body has an awesome capacity to heal itself. Don’t believe me? Just listen to Arielle whose brain tumour disappeared after Emotional Release Therapy or Edgar who worked with a ‘dream healer’ to cure his kidney cancer. The film features the likes of Bruce Lipton , a renowned cell biologist, who has spent the last three decades studying quantam physics and looking at how our emotions affect us on a molecular level. Best Lines… ‘At least one third of all healings – including drugs, surgery and other allopathic interventions – have …to do with the placebo affect.’ Bruce Lipton ‘One of the fundamental things that has to change in the future of medicine, is this focus on the gene, as being the solution to every illness,’ Lynne McTaggart www.thelivingmatrixmovie.com One Answer to Cancer Watch it Because… you’ll find out about a treatment that boasts a 100% success rate for treating primary breast cancer. The Gist… Aldara is the devil; black salve is the saviour. The Australian government has known, since 1986, that the active ingredient in Aldara (a skin cancer cream) causes cancer. This first part of the film follows the battle waged by Elaine Hollingsworth on Big Pharma following her near death experience using Aldara (which has now been taken off the market). The second part of the film is dedicated to the miraculous black salve . You’ll hear from a courageous woman who rushed to the bathroom following a biopsy to insert black salve into her breast cancer (now cured) and countless other tales from people who owe their life to this (illegal) salve. Best Lines… ‘ Everything revolved around me saving my own hide with my own hands rather than relying on the butchers.’ Skin cancer patient cured himself using black salve. ‘When the freedom for people to decide what they want is lost, when doctors no longer have the right to seek the truth or search for alternatives. When central control of everything we do is absolute, then that is the time when we have totally lost our freedom and the ability to progress.’ Dr Michael Tait www.oneanswertocancermovie.com/info.htm Many people have also recommended Healing Cancer From the Inside Out with Mike Anderson. I haven’t had a chance to watch it yet, but I’d love to hear from you if you have – or if you’ve seen any other film that changed the way you thought about health and healing. For comments or recommendations click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged aldara , black salve , Burzynski , cancer is curable now , Dr Norm Shealy , elaine hollingsworth , Food Matters , medical renaissance , norm shealy , one answer to cancer , root canal filling , rooted , shealy , the living matrix , the matrix , the secret code | 8 Comments Tweet week 23 Q&A with Phillip Day Posted on November 23, 2011 by Laura Photo from www.foodmatters.tv Re: truth about cancer ‘ Finally someone has gone public with this. my dad recently passed away with advanced brain cancer, he wanted to live so badly and the last 18 months were torture, so sick after the chemo, even worse after avastin, the little time he had was taken from him with all these fake promises. you look fantastic & so healthy, & i wish you all the best & surround yourself with happy positive people please read this book ( I borrowed a copy from my local library) Cancer; Why We`re Still Dying To Know The Truth by Phillip Day.’ I recently received this lovely (but sad) email from a reader – she isn’t the first to recommend Phillip Day. In the last few months I’ve been inundated with emails and tweets from people telling me about Phillip Day’s life-changing workshops and books . If you’ve seen Food Matters you’ll recognize Phillip as the fast-talking English journalist who sums up (in just a few sound-bites) all that is wrong with the modern medical establishment. When he’s not being a film star, Phillip Day is writing eye-opening reports, advising cancer doctors around the world, speaking at conferences and writing books (he’s even written a technical manual about B17 therapy for doctors – and, believe it or not, many have read it too). I had the privilege (and pleasure) of speaking with him on Monday. Here’s what he had to say… If you’re diagnosed with cancer today, how much better is your life expectancy than if you were diagnosed 30 years ago? ‘It isn’t. The five-year or better survival rates for almost all forms of cancer officially remain almost unchanged. There isn’t one study you can show me that demonstrates that chemotherapy, or radiation or surgery extend life in the major epithelial cancers. The cancer industry has failed, to such an extent that they’ve had to redefine the word ‘cure’ to only mean five years after initial treatment. Take my aunt as an example. My aunt got breast cancer, she had all the chemo you can imagine – despite my best efforts to persuade her otherwise – and she survived five years, so she’s forever immortalized in the Cancer Research UK database as a cancer survivor. Of course she hit the five-year mark and died six months after that. So she’s ‘cured’ and dead.’ Why do millions still believe in the power of chemotherapy? ‘Because that’s the only thing they’ve been told they can do. When you get a cancer diagnosis you’re frightened and you’re looking around to see who’s going to offer you the best promise of further life. Of course everyone wants to trust their doctors so they go to the doctor and say ‘Hey, I’ve got cancer, what’s my best choice?’ The information they’re given is coloured by the fact these people are trained in institutions funded by the drug industry. And so they only get that particular side of it. The cure for cancer is the immune system: the very thing that traditional treatments devastate. Which might explain why we (in England) have the worst cancer survival rates of any western, industrialized nation. You’re better going off to Latvia because at least they can’t afford the chemo out there.’ What’s the biggest myth about chemotherapy? ‘The biggest myth is that you can pour ‘X’ chemical warfare agents into a human being and believe that you’re going to cure them. And when you get to radiation, how many people know that radiation causes cancer ?’ What is Cancer? ‘ Cancer is basically a fungus (more on that later) and the degree that it can spread in the body, is the degree to which the immune system will let it. If your immune system is weak, the fungus is going to come out, feed on trapped sugars, and start to create mischief. Along comes a doctor and says ‘ Right, the best cure for this is chemo,’ and what they’re after is tumour shrinkage, but tumour shrinkage is not the same thing as curing cancer.’ Why? ‘Cancer is not a localized lesion; cancer is a systemic issue. You can cut tumours out of the human breast all day long and they keep growing back, the reason they grow back is that you never rescued the immune system.’ Every year people give billions to cancer charities. Where’s all that money going? ‘It’s going back into the drug industry. It’s a very lucrative scam. Every October we have four thousand women in Maidstone, who are persuaded to strip down to their brassieres and run around Mote Park to raise money to give back to the drug companies that killed their mum and dads.’ How can you prove that? ‘Cancer charities are making no secret of the fact they’re raising money for cancer research. Who’s doing the cancer research? The drug companies. So the money is going to the drug companies and yet we have thousands of studies that show nutrition can cure cancer, we have all kinds of doctors… are you aware of Stanislaw Burzynksi ? He’s curing cancer using Antineoplastons. They (the pharmaceutical companies via the FDA) are going after him right now, they’re desperate to get this guy down and put him in jail ( You can read more about that here ). They’re desperate to persecute all of these doctors using B17 (found in apricot kernals) or doctors administering intravenous C . Anywhere you go you’ll see the iron first comes down on people who are daring to say that food can cure anything. In fact you’ve just seen the European Union issue this asinine ruling that water doesn’t cure dehydration . And if you claim that water can cure dehydration you go to prison for two years!’ And didn’t Congress just announce that pizza was a vegetable ? ‘It was the same week Laura, the same week.’ So what’s the answer to cancer? ‘There’s a huge amount more we can do – vitamin D, for instance, is a very big player in cancer because it underpins the proper working of the immune system. Then there’s exercise, stress-management… there is a total package now that is extremely effective. I highly recommend you watch Healing Cancer from Inside Out with Mike Anderson. On there you’ll see doctors – like Charlotte Gerson – who are taking cancer patients and putting them on a 100% plant based, 100% raw food diet which boosts the immune system and the immune system kills the cancer. What Stanislaw is doing, what these other doctors – the B17 doctors, the vitamin C infusion doctors, the Essiac brigade and everything else – all these different modalities that seem to work with cancer, in fact don’t cure cancer, they enable the body to cure it.’ But chemotherapy does seem to work for some people… ‘The chemotherapy might have shrunk the tumour to the point where the patient is sent home, but what’s never recorded is maybe then the patient thought: ‘I better start looking after myself.’ That’s going to have a major, major affect on someone. I love doctors who at the end of their careers make certain statements, because you know those statements come with all the gravitas and all of the intelligence that they’ve accumulated over their long and distinguished career. Anyway, one of the greatest doctors who ever lived, Albert Schweitzer said: ‘ It’s supposed to be a secret, but I’ll tell you anyway. We doctors do nothing, we only help and encourage the doctor within.’ If you go over that statement, there are quite a few illuminating things. Firstly ‘It’s supposed to be a secret.’ Why? Because doctors would lose their sovereignty, they would lose this whole mystic that they weave around people. It’s like a religion  – I often call it the religion of medicine. It’s like the priests of the medieval ages who held their power over the common folk by keeping the scriptures in Latin, so people couldn’t read them. But then, along comes Martin Luther… (Martin Luther famously translated the Bible -previously in Latin- into the language of the people) . Today, it’s not Martin Luther, it’s the internet. When people get cancer, the first thing they’ll say to me is ‘I’ve got cancer, how many apricot kernels should I take?’ And I tell them: ‘What you should be saying is, I’ve got cancer, what education should I have?’ Until next week… For comments click here Disclaimer Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged Albert Schweitzer , cancer industry , Cancer Research UK , cancer survivor , chemotherapy , Credence , day , Dying to Know , Food Matters , philip day , radiation , Why We're Still Dying to Know The Truth | 9 Comments ← Older posts Sign up for our Newsletter Email Address * First Name * = required field powered by MailChimp ! search this blog Search for: Recent Posts week 32 - The Budwig Diet week 31 - ‘I also said no to chemo’ week 30 - Medical Intuitives week 29 - Professo