
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 07:02:38 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Arthritis Pain | Arthritis Pain Medication - Anti-Rheumatic Drugs Arthritis Pain Medication- Understanding Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs When you're learning about something new, it's easy to feel overwhelmed by the sheer amount of relevant information available. This informative article should help you focus on the central points. It's really a good idea to probe a little deeper into the subject of arthritis pain medication. What you learn may give you the confidence you need to venture into new areas. While the true nature of the mechanisms involved in this category of drugs is not yet known, it is still evident that it works well in relieving some of the main symptoms of the condition. Despite the fact that it was first dismissed to be of no real value against the cure of arthritis, many researchers and experts now agree that the initial discredits were due primarily to the reason that it is slow acting. In fact, on the average it takes around 6 to 8 months before it shows any sign of effectiveness. Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) are considered as remissive. This means that they work by slowing down the process of the diseases. As we have first mentioned, the nature of the drugs is not understood yet. They seem to help ease the inflammation while not being anti-inflammatory actually since they do not act by decreasing the release of prostaglandin. Apparently, this group of disease works by altering the immune system in some ways through slowing down the process of the development of the disease. As expected there were lots of misconceptions on the drugs and many failed to see the real benefits it provide the patient. The effects, duration of use and side effects were all questioned in the early years yet studies were able to surface the commonly unobserved effects and overly emphasized bad results through using DMARDs. Due to the drugs effectiveness and slow acting nature, it is now commonly seen as the second line of treatment against arthritis yet one that gives the long term solution. Normally, a patient would be prescribed with Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs if the symptoms of arthritis last for more than six weeks in conjunction to the use of NSAIDs. This combination normally works well for most cases since while the NSAIDs help in the reduction of daily pain, the DMARDs take control of the biological process that drive the inflammation. The problem though with DMARDs is that it is often hard to calculate the actual dosage that each patient should be prescribed with. This is primarily due to the individual types of arthritis that could be found affecting the bones. Often, it is more like a balancing game where the rheumatologist adjusts the dosage of drugs depending on the observed and actual needs. Take note that DMARDs are a wide class of medications. However, with each type come individual effects that are proven.  The most commonly prescribed DMARDs are gold salts or often termed to as gold therapy, azathioprine, methotrexate, sulfasalazine and chloroquine /hydroxychloroquine. The history of gold therapy is fairly a product of coincidence. It was first used to treat tuberculosis but results show that in return, it cured arthritis. Anyway, after 50 years it is still yielding much effectiveness on arthritis patients.  Like the general perception on DMARDs, the mechanisms that works around the gold therapy is quite not clear yet it seems to interfere with the white blood cells that are in active with the joint damage and joint inflammation. Hydroxychloroquine , on the other hand, it works by interfering with the functions of the immune system cells. Methotrexate functions by interfering with the use of the folic acid and with the reduction of the speed of cell growth in the lining of the joints. Sulfasalazine's real mechanism is not yet known but this drug is often observed with two functions: one is the inhibition of the bacterial growth and the other is through blocking the inflammation process. Don't limit yourself by refusing to learn the details about arthritis pain medication. The more you know, the easier it will be to focus on what's important. Comments * Name: * Email: Website URL: Title / Subject: Hide my email * Comments: * Menu Friends Contact Us My Articles Arthritis Pain Home Several Measures Regarding Arthritis Pain Treatment Arthritis Pain Medication- Understanding Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs Arthritis Back Pain: Dealing With Spinal Arthritis Types Of Arthritis In The Knee And Concerns On Pain Knowing What Neck Pain Arthritis Is All About Facts About Hand Pain Arthritis A List Of Arthritis Pain Home Remedies Alternative Arthritis Pain Relief – Complementary And Alternative Medicine Arthritis Pain Control: How You Can Effectively Manage It! Nature Of Rheumatoid Arthritis And Its Accompanying Pain Reality Of Rheumatoid Arthritis Pain Relief Chronic Pain Arthritis: Possible Remedies The Vital Truth About Leg Pain Arthritis Arthritis Pain Medication For Dog: A Relief For Your Pet What Is Arthritis Pain Shoulder? Arthritis, Joint And Pain- What Connects All Three? Arthritis Pain: Understanding And Managing Pains Your Choices For Arthritis Muscle Pain Treatment The Role Of Analgesics As Prescription Arthritis Pain Relief The Other Side Of Arthritis Pain Killers Long Term Arthritis Pain Relief Medicine For Arthritis Pain Relief - Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Or NSAIDs What You Should Know About Arthritis Foot Pain Relief From Arthritis Pain- Ten Tips To Help You Cope My Articles A List Of Arthritis Pain Home Remedies Tired of the arthritis pains? Then, follow these simple guidelines.. What You Should Know About Arthritis Foot Pain Arthritis, a disease that connotes the inflammation of the.. The Vital Truth About Leg Pain Arthritis How is leg pain arthritis defined?

Leg pain arthritis is commonly.. Knowing What Neck Pain Arthritis Is All About The daily hustles and bustles that people attend to as they go on.. Related Videos: Related News: How to ease arthritis pain - Times of India How to ease arthritis pain Times of India So, in a bid to make arthritis a little easier for you, today Dr. Shekhar Agarwal, Executive Director and Chief Surgeon at Delhi Institute of Trauma and Orthopaedics gives us the 5 ways to ease arthritis pain . Dietary modification. The 'happy pill' that eases the agony of arthritis - Daily Mail Daily Mail The 'happy pill' that eases the agony of arthritis Daily Mail However, emerging evidence suggests the drug can also dampen down pain , possibly by blocking signals from reaching the brain. An estimated eight million people in Britain have some degree of osteo- arthritis , which causes the destruction of cartilage ... and more » Subscribe © Cop