
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 29 Feb 2012 09:40:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Lower Back Pain Treatment  NJ| Treatment For Back Pain | Chronic Back Pain Treatment | Upper Back Pain Treatment – AIMS Clinic Home | Contact Us | Testimonials News & Events | Sitemap STAY CONNECTED: about us M. Speesler, MD F. Abbasi, MD M. Davis, DO M. Radic, NMD T. Picone, DC J. Reisert, DC G. Florentino, PT A. Ward, DPT S. Morris, DC T. Bielecki, DC A. Schwartz, DC J. Monica, DC, CNS, DCBCN Testimonials Insurance alternative medicine services Acupuncture Chiropractic Holistic Medicine Infusion Therapy Intravenous Chelation medical products Nutritional Counseling Pain Management Physical Therapy Spinal Decompression Weight Loss medical conditions Arthritis Back Pain Candidiasis (Yeast) Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Fibromyalgia Headaches Heart Disease Heel Pain Herniated Discs Hip Pain Hyper/Hypothyroidism Knee Pain Lyme Disease Muscle Spasms Neck Pain Pinched Nerve Plantar Fasciitis Sciatica Scoliosis Shoulder Pain Sports Injuries Trigger Point Therapy Weight Loss Whiplash diagnostic testing Blood Testing Genova Stool Analysis Toxic Element Test Food & Chemical Sensitivity Elemental Hair Analysis Digestive Analysis Nutritional Evaluation Male Hormone Health Menopause Screening DTX4000 for Osteoporosis Hydrogen Breath Test EMG & NCV Testing Radiographic Evaluation Body Composition Analysis Health 101 Articles News and Events Videos BACK PAIN IN NJ OVERVIEW SYMPTOMS / CAUSES TREATMENTS COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS BACK PAIN TESTIMONIALS BACK PAIN ARTICLES Conditions Arthritis Back Pain Candidiasis (Yeast) Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Fibromyalgia Headaches Heart Disease Heel Pain Herniated Discs Hip Pain Hyper/Hypothyroidism Knee Pain Lyme Disease Muscle Spasms Neck Pain Pinched Nerve Plantar Fascitis Sciatica Scoliosis Shoulder Pain Sports Injuries Trigger Point Therapy Weight Loss Whiplash Commonly Asked Questions Back Pain What does back pain feel like? Back pain can range  from a sharp or dull pain to tingling, numbness or a  burning sensation. It may be tender to the touch or result in limited  range-of-motion. How common is back pain? Unfortunately,  90% of Americans will have back pain at some point in their lives. This year,  millions of Americans will experience a potentially debilitating back injury.  For some, they’ll suffer pain or discomfort for the rest of their lives, due to  an incorrect diagnosis, improper or inadequate care. According to a 1998 study  in the British Medical Journal, 75% of back pain sufferers who do nothing about  their back pain will either have pain or disability 12 months later. What are common causes of back pain? At the AIMS Clinic,  we believe identifying the cause makes all the difference when seeking back  pain relief! Back pain is caused by many factors such as: Poor Posture  (improper position when sitting, reading, sleeping or working at a computer),  Injury (auto, sports or slip and fall), Improper Bending and Lifting  Techniques, Inadequate Muscle Strength, Shortened Muscles, Strained Muscles or  Ligaments, Scoliosis, Arthritis, Being Overweight, Facet Joint Syndrome,  Pinched Nerve, Sciatica, Spinal Stenosis, Bulging or Herniated Disc or Segmental  Instability (excess movement between two vertebrae, causing pinching or  irritation of the nerve roots). How do you find the cause of back pain? Finding this cause, begins with a thorough  health history, understanding of the patient’s symptoms, along with a  structural and muscular examination. Our Physical Therapy and Chiropractic  Teams may perform a manual exam, palpate the spine and conduct specialized  testing to analyze posture, range-of-motion, muscle strength and nerve  function. Other diagnostic tests may include laboratory blood studies to  determine if there is an underlying disorder, x-rays, CAT scan, MRI,  electromyography and nerve conduction studies. How do I stop my back pain? After  our Team detects the cause or causes of back pain, the proper treatment can be  instituted to achieve back pain relief. Treatment may include medications,  as well as injections of ligaments, muscles, bursae, joints and specialized  injections such as epidural injections or facet joint block injections.  Physical Therapy, Chiropractic or Acupuncture may be an integral part of the  back pain treatment program. Can spinal decompression help? Spinal  decompression - traction that may help relieve back pain, may be considered.  Spinal decompression works by gently stretching the spine - taking pressure off  spinal discs (gel-like cushions between the bones in your spine). Additionally,  spinal decompression is successful in treating neck pain, bulging or  herniated discs, degenerative disc disease, posterior facet syndrome (worn spinal  joints) and radiculopathy (injured or diseased spinal nerve roots). This  revolutionary treatment method, which may be covered by health insurance - has  resulted in canceling surgeries and allowing people to live life to the  fullest. Many patients experience substantial, immediate relief of their  symptoms after their first treatment. Will physical therapy help back pain? There are several forms of physical therapy  utilized for back pain relief.  For acute pain, the physical therapist may  focus on decreasing pain with passive physical therapy (modalities). They are  considered passive therapies because they are done to the patient, rather than  the patient rehabilitating with exercise. Examples of modalities include: Ice (makes blood  vessels constrict which decreases the blood flow - helping to control  inflammation, muscle spasm and pain), Heat (makes blood vessels dilate, which increases the blood flow - helping flush  away chemicals that cause pain, as well as bringing in healing nutrients and  oxygen.), Ultrasound (uses high-frequency sound waves to reach sore muscles and other tissues that  are over two inches below the surface of your skin, which help flush the sore  area and bring in a new supply of blood that is rich in nutrients and oxygen.) Electrical Stimulation (can ease pain by sending impulses to the brain that are felt instead of  pain.), Soft Tissue  Massage (reduces pain and spasm by helping muscles relax - by  bringing in a fresh supply of oxygen and nutrient-rich blood and by flushing  the area of chemical irritants that come from inflammation.), Joint Mobilization (changing pressure and movements to the joints to help lubricate joint surfaces  to ease stiffness and reduce pain.) and Traction (sore joints and muscles often feel better when traction (pull) is used.). In addition  to passive therapies, active physical therapy (exercise) is also necessary to  rehabilitate the spine. Generally, a patient’s back exercise program will  encompass a combination of stretching exercises, strengthening exercises and low  impact aerobics. Strength and flexibility must be built up gradually - on a  gradient level. Doing too much too soon often causes muscle strain. Our  physical therapists use functional training to help patients with daily  activities. This will include a healthy posture program to keep the spine in  safe alignment, reducing strain on the joints and soft tissues around the  spine. Can  vitamins or water play a role in alleviating back pain? Other back pain relief recommendations  include staying hydrated. Drink plenty of water to help flush away acidic waste  products from the muscles. High levels of acidic waste products in the muscles  can cause muscle irritation and pain. Poor dietary choices can lead to chronic  inflammation - increasing pain sensitivity. Daily supplementation of Vitamin D  can help alleviate a deficiency and low back pain, according to recent studies. If my  back pain is not going away, what should I do? Many back pain patients treated at the AIMS  Clinic have previously treated with various doctors, specialists and  therapists, tried bed rest, a multitude of strong drugs and over-the-counter  medication and sadly, many have had failed surgery. They come to us because  they're still in pain ...and they’ve heard about the success of our program  offered here in East Brunswick, NJ. Many are close to losing hope because even  after all the consultations, tests and treatments they've been through, they  still don't... move like they used to! Call  New Jersey’s own Alternative Integrated Medical Services today at 732-254-5553  and receive a FREE Initial Consultation. Our goal is to provide  the most advanced and compassionate pain relief. Our Team of Experts and friendly  staff at your local East Brunswick, NJ AIMS Clinic, will help you reduce or  eliminate pain and improve function. As our patient, we will teach you how to  regain your health with our revolutionary new treatment program. 150-A Tices Lane East Brunswick, NJ 08816 Tel: (732) 254-5553 Toll Free: (866) 254-5553 Email: Patient of the Month Click here to read about our Patient of the Month: Elizabeth McKay Click for  events! To schedule an event for your organization, please call (732) 238-2944. Copyright 2012. All Rights Reserved. Alternative Integrated Medical Services | 150-A Tices Lane | East Brunswick, NJ 08816 Ph: (732) 254-5553 | Toll Free: (866) 254-5553 | Email: info@aimsclinic.com | www.aimsclinic.com HOME | ABOUT US | ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE SERVICES | MEDICAL CONDITIONS | DIAGNOSTIC TESTING | MEDICAL PRODUCTS NEWS & EVENTS | TESTIMONIALS | CONTACT US | SITEMAP NJ W