
Exercise & Back Pain | GolfLink.com GolfLink Track. Learn. Improve. Follow Us: Home Golf Courses Course Finder Yardage Maps Course Flyovers GolfLink Top 100 Driving Ranges Mini Golf Tournaments Tee Times Golf Travel Top Golf Destinations Resorts Travel Tips Golf Vacations International Golf Golf Real Estate Tips & Lessons Instruction & Techniques Beginners Golf Tips Instructors Golf Fitness Golf Terms Golf Rules Great Shots My Game My Profile Mobile My Yardage Maps My Handicap My Rounds My Stats My Videos My Courses Blog Photos Messages Friends Golf Gear & Reviews Golfers Sign In Register Golf Link Golf Tips & Lessons Golf Exercises Exercise & Back Pain Exercise & Back Pain By Teresa Justine  Kelly Back problems are the most common types of golf-related injuries. The torque or rotation of the golf swing puts enormous pressure on your lower back. At some point in your golfing career, you might experience some form of back problem usually caused by muscular strains or sprains. Remaining fit and supple will help to ensure that back problems do not occur. If they do, however, there are exercises you can perform to minimize your back problems, and physical therapy to help ease the pain, allowing you to golf comfortably throughout your lifetime. Golf Tee Times Golf Travel Packages Golf Resorts Car Rentals Golf Vacations Golf Retail Stores Flight Deals Discount Golf Clubs Golf Swing Improvement Sponsored Links Time Frame The repetitive motion of the golf swing contributes to lower back problems. Over time, this repetition of rotating the upper body can cause stress to the lower back, resulting in muscular pain and pressure on sensitive spinal nerves. As we age, muscle mass and strength decrease, as well as bone loss and disk degeneration that can possibly lead to arthritis. The body loses flexibility and elasticity that compound back problems. Loss of flexibility results in poor swing mechanics that can contribute to lower back problems. Prevention/Solution In order to mitigate possible back injury, it is wise to stay in shape by exercising on a regular basis and maintaining a healthy weight.  Always perform some stretching exercises before you begin your game of golf. An easy stretching exercise, like sitting on the edge of a chair or bench in the locker room and bending forward, stretching your arms towards the floor and holding this position for a few minutes, will aid in flexibility. Before you get to the first tee, gently rotate your body from side to side, loosening up stiff muscles and preparing your body for your round of golf. Take several easy practice swings with your club. To help stretch the hips, grasp one knee with your hands and bring it close to the chest and hold this position for a few seconds. Repeat with the other knee. A good exercise to do on a regular basis before you even get to the golf club is the seated twist exercise. Sit upright on a chair maintaining a straight back. Bring your left arm back as far as is comfortable, keeping your right hand on the outside of your left knee. Hold this position for a few seconds, then reverse the position using your right arm and right knee. This exercise naturally rotates your upper body, aiding in flexibility and range of motion. Correct Swing The very nature of the golf swing can place stress and strain on the back. Correcting your swing can aid in eliminating potential back problems. At address, make sure your knees are bent at about 25 to 30 degrees. Straight knees force your body to bend too far forward, putting more strain on your back. Flatten your swing plane if your plane is too steep. Over time, a steep swing plane can cause injury to your hips and your back. Always try to finish your swing in an upright position to reduce pressure on the lower back. An overarched finish (the reverse "C" shape) places strain on the lower back. Treatment for existing back injury If you have already sustained a back injury, the best treatment is rest and abstinence from golf and exertion for several days or weeks, allowing the body to heal itself. As you recover, incorporate a low-aerobic activity to help repair the strained muscles. A 30- to 40-minute walk every second day is an ideal exercise to gently repair injured muscles. Once you have recovered, return to your golf game, but practice some stretching and warm-up activities before your game to prevent a recurrence of your back problems. Warning While playing your game of golf, keep the swing as smooth and effortless as possible. Trying to power the ball by swinging hard will put stress and strain on the back. If you are a golfer who prefers to carry your clubs, select a lightweight bag with a double shoulder harness to evenly distribute the weight. Lighten your load by carrying just the equipment you will need for your round of golf. Carrying your clubs can cause the spine to shrink slightly during your round of golf. About The Author Teresa Kelly graduated from the University of Waterloo with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history. She was an editor for seven years for several magazines and publishing houses. Kelly is an avid golfer, a well-known children's book and golf author, and is currently the president of Highview Press/Golfing Lady that produces all occasion golf greeting cards. Not a Member? Join Now - It's FREE! Member Sign In Email Address Password Keep me logged in Forgot your password? Nearby Tee Time HOT Deals ! Thursday, Mar 01 to Tuesday, Mar 06 Related Articles Exercise for Hip & Lower Back Pain Lower back and hip pain can plague any golfer. A day on the course offe... Common Golf Injuries A Harvard Medical School study conducted in 2004 revealed that the most... Sciatic Back Pain Exercises A common golf ailment is pain in the lower back. One typical cause of t... Effective Exercises for Lower Back Pain Lower back pain is an unfortunately common experience for golfers. The ... Exercises for Back Pain Relief A common lament of many golfers is the occurrence of back pain. The twi... View All Related Articles Video of the Day A Rotary Swing Plane By Sandy LaBauve The club should work around your body to form a circular swing plane Watch the Video Now Article of the Day Rotator Cuff Exercises for a Torn Rotator Cup Exercise is always the first option when the muscles around the rotator cuff are injured or torn... Read full article Top Blog Post Bay Hill Proves Tough Test Arnold Palmer is known to prefer a thorough test of golf.
As host of the invitational that bears his name, Palmer, like Jack Nicklaus at the Memorial, is the guiding influence over the course set up at Bay Hill and he wasn’t disappointed in giving players a fair dose of what the average hack sees ... More Advertise † About Us † FAQ † Privacy Policy † Terms of Use † Contact GolfLink † Ad Choices Site Map Copyright © 1996-2012, Demand Media. All rights reserved. † Requires Javascript GolfLink™ is a trademark or registered trademark of Dem