<em> <strong> <cite> <ul> <ol> <li> <dl> <dt> <dd> More information about formatting options Facebook Stream Publish Publish to Facebook CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What code is in the image?: * Enter the characters shown in the image. Comments DrGreene Julie, thanks for the great Julie, thanks for the great comment. You are so right. Just because you are giving a brand you are familiar with (such as Tylenol), don't assume you know the right dose unless you are sure which kind you are giving. Helpful? 1 -1 reply Julie P Not only is the accuracy of Not only is the accuracy of the dose important, but also the formulation or concentration of the medication. Tylenol is the perfect example.  I've seen young children who have received a given dose of the infant Tylenol drops (100mg/mL) instead of the children's Tylenol liquid (32mg/mL).  This can easily result in an overdose with a three-fold difference in the amount of Tylenol given.  Make sure and ask which formulation to use! Helpful? 1 -1 reply Beth Ziesenis Our silverware drawer held Our silverware drawer held our well-worn test-tube-y scoopy-ended vial thingy (I have no idea what it's called! I was just a kid!) that delivered "the pink stuff," the antibiotic of choice when I was a kid. It was plastic and pretty beat up, as I recall, and I remember the feel of the lip on my teeth.

Over Christmas, I watched my poor little nephew with his big bad case of strep throat take his pink stuff with the exact same type of  measurer. It's wonderful to know that my mom and my sister were doing the right thing by using a device that could accurately measure the dosage. Helpful? 1 -1 reply DrGreene Dawn, that's the way I grew Dawn, that's the way I grew up too. And you're so right about multiple kids and medicines!

I think the optical triggers of container shape and size are fascinating. In a small spoon we pretty reliably pour too little and in a large spoon too much -- even when we know the size and are trying to be accurate. The optical illusions and psychological triggers are so strong.

My parents gave us a beautiful set of small plates for Christmas -- and we love them. I've found that the same serving size feels much more filling to me when it fills more of the plate. I'm no longer hungry sooner.

This is consistent with a lot of research. For instance, when you ask adults to eat popcorn until satisfied, the amount they eat depends on the size of the container offered.

Feeling satisfied eating less is pretty cool.

(And LOL, Cheryl -- you're already a perfect height!) Helpful? 1 -1 reply Dawn I remember my mom and dad I remember my mom and dad always using kitchen teaspoons to give medicine. Sometimes we gave ourselves medicine using those spoons too! But since I have had kids I've always used the provided measuring dropper/ spoon or syringe. When you are tired it is easy to make a mistake, especially if you have multiple kids and medicines. Helpful? 1 -1 reply Cheryl Greene If tall slim cups will help If tall slim cups will help make me slimmer, I'm switching! Can they make me taller, too? Helpful? 1 -1 reply Recipe of the Day Looking for healthy, family-friendly recipes? Check out our featured "Recipe of the Day" and our extensive Recipe Library . Most Recent Blog Posts Whole Grains for the Whole Family Submitted By: Kathy Hester 2.29.2012 Whole grains is a buzz word but it’s around for good reason, because whole grains really are better for you. 

Most... » Add a Nutritional Boost to Your Pasta Dishes Submitted By: Kathy Hester 2.28.2012 There are so many types of pasta available it’s easy to get confused. For me, it’s most important that I get a 100%... » Easy and Interesting Whole Grain Breakfasts Submitted By: Kathy Hester 2.27.2012 Start the day off with a hearty breakfast and get some whole grains in your family from the moment they are up and... » More » Advertisement Baby Name finder Browse our real-time reports of today's hottest baby names. Related Video F-Throat (Part 2) watch now » Feeling congested? Tired? Feverish? Is it a just a cold or is it flu? watch now » Dr. Greene’s Top Parenting Do's and Don’ts Each day I see parents trying their best to do what’s right for their families, but no one has the perfect guidebook that tells parents what to do. Click here for the top ten solvable problems that I advise parents to remedy today. DrGreene Quick Quotes Even our fruits and vegetables are often grown using agricultural techniques that minimize the vitamin and mineral contents. --Alan Greene, MD, FAAP Podcasts Videos Facebook Twitter Books Home Health & Parenting Center Ages & Stages Browse Alphabetically Health Topics ADHD Allergies Asthma Bedwetting Breastfeeding Cancer Childhood Obesity Diabetes Diseases and Conditions Ear Infections Environmental Health ADHD Information Flu Genetics Household Products Children's Safety The Great Outdoors All About Sleep Family Nutrition Feeding Infants and Babies Infectious Diseases Cold and Flu Epidemics Fevers Gastrointestional System Autoimmune System Medications and Breastfeeding Medical Treatments Rashes and Parasites Respiratory System Prevention Immunizations Medical Treatment Mental Health Organics Potty Training Pregnancy and Nutrition Skin Infection and Rashes Vitamin Supplements Illustrated Encyclopedia Wikipediatrics Blogs Community Books & Stuff About Browse-Alphabetically Ask, Answer, Learn Baby Names Expecting Recipes Archives Press Room Events Awards Partners & Supporters Contact Us Copyright 2011 Greene Ink, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer , Limitations , Revisions and Errata . Photos of 