Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 17:58:37 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "e358c6f09969cc1:c35af"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 11:51:19 GMT
Connection: close

All Things Jill Newsletter - August 2007 All 
						Things Jill August 2007 EO/Herb of the 
						Month: Soothe burned Skin with Aloe Vera (Aloe barbadensis) We've all been there - you've spent a glorious summer 
						day outside with (or without!) your sun protection, and 
						suddenly someone says "Hey, you're looking a little 
						red". YIKES! Without a thought,  most of us will head 
						straight for the aloe vera; it's a fantastic skin 
						soother & healer and you shouldn't leave home without 
						it! Aloe vera (Aloe barbadensis) originates from 
						North Africa and there are now more than 500 species of 
						it growing in warm climates of the world.  Aloe 
						plants range in height from a few inches to 30 feet or 
						more. The leaves of many species can become quite large 
						and are lance shaped with jagged edges. The first written reference of aloe vera is an ancient 
						Egyptian papyrus, which dates back to 3500 BC. Legend 
						suggests that Aristotle convinced Alexander the Great to 
						capture the island of Socotra in the Indian Ocean for 
						its supply of aloe vera to heal wounded soldiers. Aloe's healing power comes  from its ability to increase 
						the availability of oxygen to the skin, and by 
						increasing the synthesis and strength of tissue. Just a few of the 
						phenomenal benef its of Aloe Vera: reduce inflammation  ~  decrease 
						swelling/redness  ~  accelerates wound healing  
						~  acne/eczema control  ~  itch relief  
						~  sunburn healer  ~  antimicrobial  
						~  vitamin-packed Feature Product: After Sunny Spray When your body has seen too much sun, just reach for our 
						After Sunny Spray. Formulated with pure Aloe Vera Juice, 
						calendula oil and organic essential oils of Lavender, 
						Peppermint and Carrot Seed, this spray starts cooling 
						and soothing the minute it hits your skin. The bonus? The sooner you apply it, the less likely you 
						are to peel, and that's always a great thing. Check out www.allthingsjill.ca/g_o/s_spray.htm for more! Notes from the Soaperie Tim and I were able to spend last Saturday at the 
						Calgary Folk Festival, the last non-work weekend of the 
						summer for us. We were also proud to donate products to all 
						of the performers. Artists like Great Big Sea, Edie Brickell & the New Bohemians, Chumbawamba and Rufus 
						Wainwright all received ATJ gift bags, and we were 
						thrilled to have the opportunity to see many of them 
						live. While many of you are surely out relaxing and enjoying 
						your summer vacation, we're moving into high gear back 
						at the shop. With August comes the start of the show 
						circuit for us - heading to Wholesale and Retail shows 
						monthly, from now until March. We've got a couple of exciting things happening: first, 
						our just for jack line is making it's debut at 
						all of these shows, and we expect great things from 
						Jack!  Second, we're currently going through a labeling 
						metamorphosis - our new look will be unveiled at the 
						Alberta Gift Show in a little over two weeks. Be 
						prepared for our new chic, sleek, clean look! Happy Summer! Jill's Picks: Whenever we're looking for a li ttle 
						something sweet to add to tea, coffee, dinner or 
						desserts, Tim & I always open up the cupboard to reveal 
						the best honey around. The Chinook Honey Company is located in Okotoks, Alberta and is run by Cherie & 
						Art Andrews. All of their honey is non-pasteurized, meaning, it comes 
						straight from the bees to you, the consumer. No extra 
						processing, no extra handling. The result? A superior 
						quality honey, both in taste and in medicinal benefits. Stop into their little operation to pick up some sweet 
						treats (and they've even got honey ice cream - my 
						FAVOURITE!) and have a look at their observation hive. 
						You won't be disappointed! www.chinookhoney.com Retailer of the Month: The Clean Calgary Association focuses on two 
									areas: environmental education, and the 
									tools to incorporate positive environmental 
									changes into one's lifestyle. Whether it's buying and using a composter 
									regularly, changing your light bulbs out for 
									compact fluorescents, or even if you're 
									looking for an environmentally-friendly 
									gift, Clean Calgary Association is your 
									one-stop shop for all things good for the 
									earth! You can find a great selection of All Things Jill's 
						products in the Clean Calgary Association Eco-Store. F or more information 
						on this fantastic organizaion, click here . In 
						This Issue: \ EO/Herb of the Month: Aloe Vera \ Feature Product: Sunny Spray \ Notes from the Soaperie: Back to Work at ATJ! \ What's Happening? Flavours of the Foothills Harvest Festival \ Jill's Picks: Chinook Honey \ Retailer of the Month: Clean Calgary Association What's 
						Happening? 2007 Harvest Festival If you're looking for something great to do on August 
						25, why not take a tour in the Foothills of Alberta? The 
						Flavours of the Foothills 2007 Harvest Festival opens the doors of 3 local farms; there's tours, tastings and treats! Click the logo above for more information Upcoming Events Some things we're looking forward to in the near future: August 19 - 22 Alberta Gift Show, Booth #5402 September 6 Women Fore Wishes Golf Tournament All Things Jill is happy to be a sponsor! September 9-11 Vancouver Gift Show October 9-16 All Things Jill is closed: Jill & Tim's Honeymoon! We're excited to finally be taking our Mexican honeymoon. October 26 - 28 Our Best to You (Red Deer) November 22 - Dec. 2 One of a Kind Craft Show (Toronto) November 29 - Dec. 2 Festival of Crafts (Calgary) New
						Retailers For our complete list of retailers that carry our 
						products,, click here All Things Jill Handcrafted Bath & Body Products Calgary, Alberta p: 403-283-5456  /  877-283-5455 f: 403-283-5474 e: sales@allthingsjill.ca w: www.allthingsjill.ca Of course you can forward this newsletter to others. When you do, please send it in its entirety, including 
						the contact information. Thanks and enjoy! Privacy Policy: We are committed to 
						protecting your privacy and will never sha