
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 23:50:35 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.11

Metro Community Provider Network Search: To Make an Appointment or Learn More About our Services, Please Call: (303) 360-MCPN (6276) MCPN's 8th Annual Green Tie Gala was a HUGE SUCCESS! Please click here to view pictures from the event. -- Stay Tuned for Information on our 8th Annual Celebrity Golf Classic "Healthcare the Fairway". Join Our e-Mail List! Go Back a Page Home About Us Become an MCPN Patient Charitable Giving Clinic Locations Community Partnerships Community Services e-Health Info Center for Kids Employment Opportunities Events Calendar Healthcare Providers Online Health Resources Our Advocacy Program Press & Newsletters Contact Us MCPN e-Health Information Center for Kids e-Health Information Center Main Page Pertussis (Whooping Cough) We are currently seeing an increase in cases of Pertussis in our community. Pertussis, or whooping cough, is a respiratory illness that begins with mild cold symptoms and progresses to a severe cough. The cough comes in spasms and is sometimes characterized by a high-pitched whooping sound followed by vomiting. Classic pertussis lasts several weeks with some cases lasting 10 weeks or longer. Pertussis is most severe when it occurs in the first 6 months of life, particularly in those who are unimmunized or who are born prematurely. Older siblings and adults with mild symptoms are an important reservoir of infection for young children and infants. Pertussis is diagnosed clinically and confirmed with laboratory tests. Treatment While antibiotics have minimal effect on the course of the illness once the classic whooping cough has begun, they are recommended to limit the spread of the illness. Confirmation of the illness by a medical provider helps guard against the overuse of antibiotics in the setting of a viral illness and subsequent development of organisms that are resistant to antibiotics. Control measures: All household contacts of young infants should receive a pertussis vaccine booster. Others who are unimmunized or under-immunized should complete the recommended schedule of immunizations (see our website for the recommended vaccination schedule). Household contacts and other close contacts of those who have been diagnosed with pertussis should receive prophylactic antibiotic treatment to prevent transmission of the disease. Students and school staff with a confirmed diagnosis of pertussis should be excused from school until they have completed a five day course of antibiotic therapy. See also: Cough disclaimer Copyright 2005-2012, Metro Community Provider Network. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site is subject to our Terms and Conditions of Use . MCPN is a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) Top of Page Employee Remote Login - Click Here MCPN is