Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Diabetes Online - What Is The Best Diabetes Diet While Pregnant? What Is The Best Diabetes Diet While Pregnant? Diabetes sometimes develops during pregnancy. This type of diabetes is called gestational diabetes. Since this type of diabetes does not have any external symptoms, it is usually discovered during a screening specifically carried between the 24th and 30th weeks of pregnancy. This is normally the only way to find out whether you are suffering from diabetes while pregnant. What Happens If You Find Out You Have Gestational Diabetes? It is quite scary to find out that you are a diabetic patient while you are pregnant since you are already coping with sufficient changes in your body and mind. However, what is done is done and you most learn to deal with it most effectively. In addition, when you find out about it, you should immediately take adequate measures to control it well enough not to create any difficulties for you or the unborn baby. It has been found that diabetes does not usually affect the baby adversely. However, the babies of a diabetic mother tend to be rather large and hence the would-be mother may have birth related complications due the size of the baby. How Do You Treat Gestational Pregnancy? The best tool to fight diabetes is still the diet. With the right diabetes diet while pregnant, the disease will not create too much disturbance. However, the diabetes diet while pregnant should be very carefully worked out so that both the would-be-mother and her baby are no deprived of any major nutrients. A dietician's help may be enlisted to work out the best diabetes diet while pregnant to include not only the required nutrients but also avoid largely the sugar build up in the blood. Your doctor will tell you what symptoms to watch for. You should also learn to watch the levels of sugar carefully to use insulin whenever necessary. The insulin will need to be injected from time and hence you will know how to inject yourself. There are homemade kits that can be used safely to measure the glucose in the blood. You should know how and where to puncture for taking the drop of blood for the kit. You should be careful that you do not cause any infection by taking this test. This along with the right diabetes diet while pregnant will ensure that you keep the diabetes in check throughout the time of pregnancy. You should have your doctor within your reach all the time to avoid any type of complications. Join Our Newsletter! Diabetes Home Causes of Diabetes Children With Diabetes Diabetes Complications Diabetes Diet and Nutrition Diabetes and Insulin Diabetes Management and Treatment Diabetes and Pregnancy Diabetes Support Diabetes Symptoms Español Italiano Medical Disclaimer Privacy Statement Contact Us Links Site Map ©2006 Elizabeth Radisson,  All Rights Reserved Diabetes Home 