
Essay on Biology : :  Free Essay, College Essay, School Essay, Essay Writing, Persuassive Essay, History Essay,  Online Essay, English Essay! Contact Us Form Subject Search for: Biology We carry over 20,000 term papers and research papers on so many topics we have categorized them by subject.  Every term paper listed below is available for instant download after you purchase it.  If you can't find a topic that suits your needs then order a customized term paper with all your requirements. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1. 1583 Economy of Biomaterials. This paper provides a full discussion of the  biomaterials market (supply, demand), how the market grew (growth rate, technology), legal barriers on the market (import quotas, etc), future expectations of the market and implications of international trade.  This paper is well documented, full of statistics, and complete with charts.  The reader is easily guided from the beginning of the paper with the definition of a biomaterial right to the heart of issues such as the utilization of human tissue prompting intense ethical concerns regarding the ownership of human biomaterials, eugenics, discrimination, and medical confidentiality.  13.5 pgs.  20 f/c. 19b. Pages: 13.5 Bibliography: 19 source(s) listed Filename: 1583 Economy of Biomaterials Price: US$116.35 2. 2102 Toxoplasma Gondii. Toxoplasma gondii is a sporozoan parasite, and its definitive host is the cat. The organism was first identified in 1908 in the mononuclear cells of a North African rodent.  Toxoplasmosis is a disease transmitted to humans and animals by toxoplama gondii, often in cat excrement, or in undercooked meat. It causes flulike symptoms and damages the central nervous system, eyes, and visceral organs. Congenital toxoplasmosis, transmitted from an infected mother to her unborn child, can lead to blindness and retardation. Although toxoplasmosis is a rare disease, its incidence has increased since the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemic.  Toxoplasma gondii belongs to Apicomplex parasite family. Research has recently shown that this family of parasites contains an intracellular structure more commonly associated with plants. This may allow for the formulation of new strategies for finding a cure for toxoplasmosis.  9.5 pgs.  22 f/c.  13b. Pages: 9.5 Bibliography: 13 source(s) listed Filename: 2102 Toxoplasma Gondii.doc Price: US$80.55 3. 3677 Sickle Cell Disease: A Genetic Perspective. This paper deals with sickle-cell disease (SCD, also known as sickle cell anemia) from a genetic point of view.  The disease and its genetic trait do not conform well to the traditional model of genetic inheritance, which required that the medical establishment rethink its ideas about genetic concepts like "dominant" and "recessive".  It often occurs in areas rife with malaria, and may be linked to an increased protection from severe malaria.  Also discussed: symptoms of SCD, treatments and gene therapies, and demographics.  6 pgs.  Bibliography lists 8 sources. Pages: 6 Bibliography: 8 source(s) listed Filename: 3677 Sickle Cell Disease.doc Price: US$53.70 4. 3745 Genetics: Human Gene Therapy. Advances in molecular biology and genetic engineering have permitted numerous technological advances. Human gene therapy involves the introduction of human gene material with a genetically altered virus as a vector to be implanted in a human being, fundamentally altering their genetic structure. This new technique will become increasingly common as it is used to both cure and prevent disease.  5 pgs.  Bibliography lists 3 sources. Pages: 5 Bibliography: 3 source(s) listed Filename: 3745 Human Gene Therapy.doc Price: US$44.75 5. 4031 Nanomedicine. This is a 5 page 4 resource paper detailing the nanostructure industry and its possible uses, in particular in reference to medicine. Particular attention is given to Dr. Robert Freitas Jr. who is a major nanomedicine researcher.  5 pgs.  Bibliography lists 4 sources. Pages: 5 Bibliography: 4 source(s) listed Filename: 4031 Nanomedicine.doc Price: US$44.75 6. 4347 Weightlessness and Blood Circulation. This is a 6 pages paper on the effect of weightlessness on the circulatory system in MLA format with 6 references that states and proves that the zero gravity reduces blood flow in the body causing dizziness and fainting of people on space flights but has no lasting effects once returned to earth.  6 pgs.  Bibliography lists 6 sources. Pages: 6 Bibliography: 6 source(s) listed Filename: 4347 Weightlessness Blood Circulation.doc Price: US$53.70 7. 8769 Are We Inheritors Of Our Parents Genes. This four-page paper looks at whether genes are an inherent design or the human make up or whether humans are a collaboration between inherited genetics and environmental issues.  4 pgs.  Bibliography lists 3 sources. Pages: 4 Bibliography: 3 source(s) listed Filename: 8769 Inheritors Parents Genes.doc Price: US$35.80 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 FREE Thesis Evaluation Contact Us Form Instant Essay Answers Don't see your topic listed? Purchase a Customized Paper - BUY NOW!