
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 11:01:50 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 10:01:50 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal - Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal Description - Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal Symptoms - Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal Prevention - Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal Treatment About.com Health Symptom Checker Symptom Checker Search Symptom Checker Lab Test Interpreter Share Send to a Friend Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal • What Is It? • Symptoms • Diagnosis • Expected Duration • Prevention • Treatment • When To Call A Professional • Prognosis • Additional Info What Is It? In the outer part of the ear canal, cells produce a wax called cerumen that traps particles of dust and dirt. The wax also repels water, protecting the delicate eardrum from damage. The wax is moved outward gradually by the lining of the ear canal, carrying any dirt it has trapped. Eventually, the wax dries and falls out of the ear in small, unnoticeable flakes. Normal production of earwax is healthy and good for your ears. If too much wax is being produced, it can block the ear, but more commonly, the ear becomes blocked because of improper ear care and ear cleaning. If you push cotton swabs, pencils, your finger or other objects into your ear canal to try to remove wax, the force can push the wax further into the ear and compress it against the eardrum. Earwax blockage, also called cerumen impaction, is a common cause of temporary hearing loss. Symptoms Your ear may feel stuffed or full, similar to the feeling some people get when they travel by airplane. You may have hearing loss that gradually worsens. Some people also experience earache or ringing in the ear (tinnitus). Diagnosis If the symptoms are familiar to you, you may be able to diagnose your earwax blockage yourself. If you visit a doctor, he or she will shine a light in your ear to see if wax is causing your problem. Expected Duration If the blockage is removed, the problem goes away. Prevention Never put any objects into your ear canals. Cotton-tipped swabs should be used to clean the outer ear only. Do not place them in the canal. Treatment If you have had earwax blockage previously and recognize the symptoms, you can try treating the blockage at home before seeing a doctor. If you think you may have a hole or tear in your eardrum, or if you have ever had surgery on your ear, do not try removing the blockage yourself because you could cause an infection. To treat earwax blockage yourself, you can use one of the following: An over-the-counter earwax remover Hydrogen peroxide Warmed (not hot) baby oil or mineral oil Liquid docusate sodium Tip your head so the ear points toward the ceiling. Using a dropper, fill the ear canal with liquid. Keep your head tipped for at least five minutes, then cover your ear with a towel and straighten your head so the liquid drips out. Repeat this process one to two times a day for the next few days. If this does not remove the wax, visit your doctor. Hydrogen peroxide will bubble in your ear and leave water behind. The moisture can increase your risk of infection. So if you use hydrogen peroxide, follow it with a rinse of rubbing alcohol to dry up the water. If the alcohol causes pain, you may have a perforated eardrum and should visit your doctor. If you go to your doctor to have the wax removed, your doctor may flush, scrape or vacuum your ear, or he or she may prescribe an earwax softener that you can use at home. In rare cases, you may need to visit a specialist to have the wax removed. When To Call A Professional If you have never had earwax blockage and are unsure what is causing the problem, visit your doctor. Other common causes of hearing loss include: Exposure to repetitive loud noises, such as gunshots or trucks Aging A tumor on the hearing nerve called an acoustic neuroma A doctor or nurse can help when home treatments fail to relieve a wax blockage. A doctor should treat your blockage if you have had a ruptured eardrum in the past. Prognosis Earwax blockages usually can be removed, and don't cause any lasting problems. Some people may have torn or perforated eardrums that require different treatment. Additional Info American Academy of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery One Prince St. Alexandria, VA 22314-3357 Phone: (703) 836-4444 E-Mail: info@entnet.org http://www.entnet.org/ American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) 11400 Tomahawk Creek Parkway Leawood, KS 66211-2672 Phone: (913) 906-6000 Toll-Free: (800) 274-2237 E-Mail: email@familydoctor.org http://www.familydoctor.org/ Online Source: American Academy of Family Physicians http://familydoctor.org/507.xml Online Source: American Academy of Otolaryngology http://www.entnet.org/healthinfo/ears/earwax.cfm Online Medical Reviewer: Pickett, Mary E. MD Date Last Reviewed: 3/31/2005 Date Last Modified: 4/20/2005 Source: from Harvard Health Decision Guides, Harvard Health Publications, Copyright © 2007 by President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Symptom Checker content copyright © 2006 by President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Use of content is subject to Terms & Conditions and Medical Disclaimer . More information on Harvard Medical School's publications and services is available at http://www.health.harvard.edu . Related Articles Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal - Wax Blockage of the Ear Canal Descript... Ear Wax Blockage - All About Ear Wax Blockage Ear Wax - Ear Wax Treatment and Removal Ear Wax - Should I Clean My Ear Wax Foreign Objects in the Ear - Foreign Objects in the Ear Description - ... Symptom Checker About.com Health Symptom Checker Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.