
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
Set-Cookie: BOLISMOBILEBROWSER=false;domain=centuraseniors;expires=Fri, 25-Apr-2042 04:07:41 GMT;path=/
Set-Cookie: STRMOBILETYPE=unknown;domain=centuraseniors;expires=Fri, 25-Apr-2042 04:07:41 GMT;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTBL_NAVBAR_BOLINHERITLEVEL=false;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTBL_NAVBAR_VERSION=1;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTABLE_NAVBAR1=;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTABLE_NAVBAR1=;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTBL_NAVBAR_VERSION=;path=/
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 02 May 2012 04:07:40 GMT
Connection: close

Dental Cavities Symptoms & Treatment Text Version | Change Text Size: Contact Us Find a Doctor Jobs & Careers For the Media Centura Facilities & Services Home Senior Living Options Independent Senior Living Assisted Living Nursing Homes Alzheimer's Care Continuing Care Retirement Communities Respite Care Adult Daycare Senior Living Resource Guide Senior Communities The Gardens at St. Elizabeth Medalion Retirement Community Namaste Alzheimer Center Porter Place Retirement Residence Progressive Care Center The Villas at Sunny Acres St. Anthony Senior Health Centers Villa Pueblo Senior Living Community Memory Disorders Evaluation Program (MDEP) Veteran's Aid & Attendance Pension Program Move In Specials How to Choose a Retirement Community Make a Donation About Us Make a Donation Volunteer Centura Connected Mission & Values Fact Sheet Mission & Ministry Centura Health 2020 Payment Options Insurance Counseling for Seniors Medicare Information Uninsured Resources Helpful Articles Advance Directives Classes, Programs & Support Resident Rights Create a web page Request Info Find a Location: Find a Location List of Facilities & Services... Centura Health Avista Adventist Hospital Castle Rock Adventist Health Campus Centura Health at Home Centura Regional Float Pool Centura Senior Living & Long Term Care Flight For Life® Colorado Littleton Adventist Hospital Mercy Regional Medical Center OrthoColorado Hospital Parker Adventist Hospital Penrose-St. Francis Health Services Porter Adventist Hospital St. Anthony Hospital St. Anthony Mountain Clinics St. Anthony North St. Anthony Summit Medical Center St. Mary-Corwin Medical Center St. Thomas More Hospital or Map of Locations Find a Doctor: Find a Doctor Physician's Specialty Administrative Medicine Allergy and Immunology Anesthesiology Anesthesiology Assistant Anesthesiology, Critical Care Anesthesiology, Pediatric Blood Banking Breast Care/Surgical Oncologist Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiothoracic Surgery Cardiovascular Disease Certified Nurse Midwife Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Nurse Specialist Clinical Research Nurse Colon and Rectal Surgery Critical Care Dentistry, General Dentistry, Pediatric Dermatology Dermatopathology Drugs & Alcohol Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Endocrinology / Metabolism Epilepsy Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Family Medicine Gastroenterology General Surgery Genetics Geriatric Medicine Gynecology / Oncology Hand & Upper Extremeties Hand Surgery Hematology/Oncology Hospitalist Infectious Diseases Infertility Internal Medicine Intraop/Neurodiagnostic Monitoring IOM Monitoring Oversight Maternal & Fetal Medicine Medical Oncology Medical Research Assistant Medical Toxicology Neonatal - Perinatal Medicine Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Nephrology Neurological Surgery Neurology Nuclear Medicine Nurse Practitioner Obstetrics & Gynecology (OB / GYN) Occupational Medicine Oculoplastic Surgery Oncology Ophthalmology Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Orthopedic Surgery Osteopathic Otolaryngology (ENT) Otolaryngology/Neurology Outpatient Pain Management Palliative Medicine Pathology Pathology, Anatomical Pathology, Clinical Pathology, Cytopathology Pediatrics Pediatrics, Allergy and Immunology Pediatrics, Cardiology Pediatrics, Emergency Medicine Pediatrics, Endocrinology Pediatrics, Gastroenterology Pediatrics, Hematology-Oncology Pediatrics, Neurology Pediatrics, Oncology Pediatrics, Ophthalmology Pediatrics, Orthopedics Pediatrics, Otolaryngology Pediatrics, Pathology Pediatrics, Pulmonary Pediatrics, Surgery Pediatrics, Urology Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician Assistant Plastic Surgery Podiatry Podiatry, Foot and Ankle Surgery Psychiatric Case Manager Psychiatry Psychiatry / Neurology Psychiatry, Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Forensic Psychology Pulmonary Disease Pulmonary/Critical Care Radiation Oncology Radiology Radiology, Diagnostic Radiology, Interventional Radiology, Neuroradiology Registered Nurse Reproductive Endocrinology Rheumatology RN Clinician RN Practitioner Sleep Medicine Spine Surgery Sports Medicine Surgical Critical Care Teleradiology Thoracic Surgery Trauma Urgent Care Urogynecology Urology Vascular Surgery and/or Advanced Search Home > Article Manager Article Manager Health Information Encyclopedia - Disease & Conditions Search Health Information Tooth anatomy Dental cavities Definition: Cavities are holes, or structural damage, in the teeth. See also: Early childhood caries Alternative Names: Caries; Tooth decay; Cavities - tooth Causes, incidence, and risk factors: Tooth decay is one of the most common of all disorders, second only to the common cold . It usually occurs in children and young adults but can affect any person. It is a common cause of tooth loss in younger people. Bacteria are normally present in the mouth. The bacteria convert all foods -- especially sugar and starch -- into acids. Bacteria, acid, food debris, and saliva combine in the mouth to form a sticky substance called plaque that adheres to the teeth. It is most prominent on the back molars, just above the gum line on all teeth, and at the edges of fillings. Plaque that is not removed from the teeth mineralizes into tartar. Plaque and tartar irritate the gums, resulting in gingivitis and ultimately periodontitis . Plaque begins to build up on teeth within 20 minutes after eating (the time when most bacterial activity occurs). If this plaque is not removed thoroughly and routinely, tooth decay will not only begin, but flourish. The acids in plaque dissolve the enamel surface of the tooth and create holes in the tooth (cavities). Cavities are usually painless until they grow very large and affect nerves or cause a tooth fracture. If left untreated, a tooth abscess can develop. Untreated tooth decay also destroys the internal structures of the tooth (pulp) and ultimately causes the loss of the tooth. Carbohydrates (sugars and starches) increase the risk of tooth decay. Sticky foods are more harmful than nonsticky foods because they remain on the surface of the teeth. Frequent snacking increases the time that acids are in contact with the surface of the tooth. Symptoms: There may be no symptoms. If symptoms occur, they may include: Tooth pain or achy feeling, particularly after sweet, hot, or cold foods and drinks Visible pits or holes in the teeth Signs and tests: Most cavities are discovered in the early stages during routine checkups. The surface of the tooth may be soft when probed with a sharp instrument. Pain may not be present until the advanced stages of tooth decay. Dental x-rays may show some cavities before they are visible to the eye. Treatment: Treatment can help prevent tooth damage from leading to cavities. Treatment may involve: Fillings Crowns Root canals Dentists fill teeth by removing the decayed tooth material with a drill and replacing it with a material such as silver alloy, gold, porcelain, or composite resin. Porcelain and composite resin more closely match the natural tooth appearance, and may be preferred for front teeth. Many dentists consider silver amalgam (alloy) and gold to be stronger, and these materials are often used on back teeth. There is a trend to use high strength composite resin in the back teeth as well. Crowns or "caps" are used if tooth decay is extensive and there is limited tooth structure, which may cause weakened teeth. Large fillings and weak teeth increase the risk of the tooth breaking. The decayed or weakened area is removed and repaired. A crown is fitted over the remainder of the tooth. Crowns are often made of gold, porcelain, or porcelain attached to metal. A root canal is recommended if the nerve in a tooth dies from decay or injury. The center of the tooth, including the nerve and blood vessel tissue (pulp), is removed along with decayed portions of the tooth. The roots are filled with a sealing material. The tooth is filled, and a crown may be placed over the tooth if needed. Support Groups: Expectations (prognosis): Treatment often saves the tooth. Early treatment is less painful and less expensive than treatment of extensive decay. You may need numbing medicine (lidocaine), nitrous oxide (laughing gas), or other prescription medications to relieve pain during or after drilling or dental work. Nitrous oxide with Novocaine may be preferred if you are afraid of dental treatments. Complications: Discomfort or pain Fractured tooth Inability to bite down on tooth Tooth abscess Tooth sensitivity Calling your health care provider: Call your dentist if you have a toothache . Make an appointment with your dentist for a routine cleaning and examination if you have not had one in the last 6 months to 1 year. Prevention: Oral hygiene is necessary to prevent cavities. This consists of regular professional cleaning (every 6 months), brushing at least twice a day, and flossing at least daily. X-rays may be taken yearly to detect possible cavity development in high risk areas of the mouth. Chewy, sticky foods (such as dried fruit or candy) are best if eaten as part of a meal rather than as a snack. If possible, brush the teeth or rinse the mouth with water after eating these foods. Minimize snacking, which creates a constant supply of acid in the mouth. Avoid constant sipping of sugary drinks or frequent sucking on candy and mints. Dental sealants can prevent some cavities. Sealants are thin plastic-like coating applied to the chewing surfaces of the molars. This coating prevents the accumulation of plaque in the deep grooves on these vulnerable surfaces. Sealants are usually applied on the teeth of children, shortly after the molars erupt. Older people may also benefit from the use of tooth sealants. Fluoride is often recommended to protect against dental caries. It has been demonstrated that people who ingest fluoride in their drinking water or by fluoride supplements have fewer dental caries. Fluoride ingested when the teeth are developing is incorporated into the structure of the enamel and protects it against the action of acids. Topical fluoride is also recommended to protect the surface of the teeth. This may include a fluoride toothpaste or mouthwash. Many dentists include application of topical fluoride solutions (applied to a localized area of the teeth) as part of routine visits. Review Date: 2/22/2010 Reviewed By: Jack D Rosenberg, DDS, Advanced Dental Care, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, M.D., MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., Inc.  Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Get Information on Health Conditions List of Health Conditions? Advanced Search Centura Health In The News CENTURA HEALTH ESTABLISHES SEVENTH AFFILIATION WITH LINCOLN COMMUNITY HOSPITAL AND NURSING HOME TO EXPAND CLINICAL SERVICES Apr 30, 2012 CENTURA HEALTH PHYSICIAN GROUP NAMES PRESIDENT & CEO Apr 4, 2012 CENTURA HEALTH NAMED EXCLUSIVE MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDER FOR USA PRO CHALLENGE FOR SECOND CONSECUTIVE YEAR Mar 16, 2012 Share | Request Information | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Help | ADA Compliance | FMLA Notice © 2012 Centura Health Text Only Options Change the current font size: larger | default | smaller Current color mode is Black on White, other available modes: Yellow on Black | Black on Cream Current color mode is Yellow on Black, other available modes: Black on White | Black on Cream Current color mode is Black on Cream, other available modes: Black on Whi