<http://www.paunchiness.com/?p=1282>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cinnamon Improves Glucose and Lipids — Paunchiness - Lose Weight, Get Fit Cinnamon Improves Glucose and Lipids by James on December 26, 2010 in Training Thoughts I’ve been taking cinnamon for a little while. Here’s some research from the American Diabetes Association . OBJECTIVE—The objective of this study was to determine whether cinnamon improves blood glucose, triglyceride, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol levels in people with type 2 diabetes. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS—A total of 60 people with type 2 diabetes, 30 men and 30 women aged 52.2 ± 6.32 years, were divided randomly into six groups. Groups 1, 2, and 3 consumed 1, 3, or 6 g of cinnamon daily, respectively, and groups 4, 5, and 6 were given placebo capsules corresponding to the number of capsules consumed for the three levels of cinnamon. The cinnamon was consumed for 40 days followed by a 20-day washout period. RESULTS—After 40 days, all three levels of cinnamon reduced the mean fasting serum glucose (18–29%), triglyceride (23–30%), LDL cholesterol (7–27%), and total cholesterol (12–26%) levels; no significant changes were noted in the placebo groups. Changes in HDL cholesterol were not significant. CONCLUSIONS—The results of this study demonstrate that intake of 1, 3, or 6 g of cinnamon per day reduces serum glucose, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol, and total cholesterol in people with type 2 diabetes and suggest that the inclusion of cinnamon in the diet of people with type 2 diabetes will reduce risk factors associated with diabetes and cardiovascular diseases… The improvement in cholesterol is impressive. For our purposes a 30% reduction in serum glucose is incredible. Lower glucose = lower insulin = lower fat storage Eat some cinnamon . Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: Diet and Heart Disease – Good Calories Bad Calories Next post: Can I have My Gym Back Categories Books Cycling Equipment Heart Rate Monitor Music & iPod Men's Health Nutrition Food & Recipes Low Carb Vitamins and Supplements Running Training Thoughts Weight Loss 30 by 30 Various Links I like Advertising & Marketing – St. Louis Down River Canoeing Marketing Strategy Blog Adventure Canoe Forum December Paddle on The Meramec River Stuff White People Like – #128 Camping LOST Final Season Videos On down the river Gransfors Bruks and Wetterlings Axe Photos Amazon.com Widge