Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

AuricularAcupuncture/Ontario Infertility Fertility Acupuncture Chinese Herbal Medicine Clinics Auricular Acupuncture Auricualu acupuncture was first recognized in the early 1970s as treatment for patients addicted to cocaine and opium in Hong Kong. Since they, auricular acupuncture has been used in addiction detoxification protocols worldwide. Dr. Paul Nogier, a French neurologist and acupuncturist, first developed auricular acupuncture as a formal somatotopic system. With his initial recognition that the "sciatic point", in fact, correlated with the 4th-5th lumbar vertebrae rather than sciatic as an ailment, Nogier discovered the primary correspondence of the body on the auricle in an "inverted fetus" presentation. This observation led to the eventual identification of the body's anatomic or structural correspondence with zones in the auricle. In China, Chinese acupuncture doctors and scientific researchers have discovered hundreds more correspondence points according to traditional Chinese acupuncture theory and clinical observations. Auricular acupuncture has become a very important branch of traditional acupuncture practice. And it has been used to treat a wide range of health conditions successfully. Currently, acupuncturists use the auricular reflexing points not only to treat a variety of illnesses and addictions, but also use them to diagnose certain disorders. According to our clinical experience, auricular therapy is more effective for treatment of Obesity, Insomnia, Anxiety, Stress, Neurological Pain, Depression as well as addictions to drugs, cigarettes and alcohol. In our practice we often use auricular therapy in conjunction with regular acupuncture techniques and herbal remedies. We fund that more enduring clinical effects may be obtained with treatment of properly identified points. Proper identification and treatment of auricular points is essential for a practitioner to treat the patients' auricle in a true medical model rather than in a cursory technical approach. And all patients must be assessed individually  on each visit as active auricular points will often vary from one treatment session to the next. Recipe treatments should be discouraged as they represent "one answer for all" and are rarely successful. Home Contact Us Site Map A Acupuncture & Chinese Herbal Medicine Clinics 665 Main St. E. Hamilton ON L8M 1K1 107--2201 Brant St. Burlington ON L7P 3N8 508--2000 credit Valley Rd. Mississauga ON L5M 4N4 Phone: (905) 317-8650 Copy Right @ 2003 A A cupuncture & Chinese Herbal Medicine Clinics, All Rig