
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 02:47:48 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.9 (Debian) PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny13 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.9 OpenSSL/0.9.8g mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.10.0
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

POZ - POZ Exclusives : Getting Snippy:  Where Circumcision Meets HIV Prevention—And Where it Doesn’t  - by James Wortman A Smart + Strong Site Subscribe to: • POZ magazine • E-newsletters Join POZ: POZ Personals Sign In / Join Username: Password: THE CURE | NEWLY DIAGNOSED | HIV TESTING | BLOGS | VIDEO | PERSONALS | FORUMS | DIRECTORY | TWITTER | FACEBOOK HOME | ABOUT HIV/AIDS What is HIV/AIDS? Symptoms Opportunistic Infections (OIs) Newly Diagnosed Disclosing Your HIV Status Living With HIV The Big Treatment Questions Side Effects and Other Health Problems POZ Focus / Fact Sheets Finding a Doctor Finding Support Health Services Directory | PREVENTION How is HIV Transmitted? Health Services Directory Getting Tested Condoms Safer Sex Safer Injecting | TREATMENT Drugs Check Your Meds Graph Your Labs Lessons POZ Focus / Fact Sheets Drug Assistance Programs Treatment News Conference Coverage Health Services Directory | NEWS Newsfeed Treatment News RSS Feeds POZ Exclusives Conference Coverage Events Coverage POZ TV World AIDS Day Events Calendar | COMMUNITY Blogs Forums Personals Polls Surveys Calendar Bookstore Mentors Job Listings African-American Women Latino Providers Widgets & RSS Feeds | ABOUT US Who We Are Our Staff Advisory Board Advertise Awards Press Subscribe Get Our E-Newsletter Contact Us | EN ESPAÑOL ¿Recién te enteraste? Recien Diagnosticados Directorio De Servicios POZ Focus Español Amigos POZ Lecciones Medicamentos Blog Foros | POZ MAGAZINE Subscribe Current Issue Archives Digital Editions Bookstore Back to home » POZ Exclusives » March 2007 Most Popular Links What You're Talking About Disclosure and Dating (blog) (20 comments) You're Fired (blog) (18 comments) Those Little Signposts (blog) (14 comments) Why Am I Public as a Criminalized HIV-Positive? blog (11 comments) The Sh*t People Say About AIDS... (blog) (8 comments) Maryland Considers Increasing HIV Law to 25-Year Felony (6 comments) Most Popular Lessons The HIV Life Cycle Shingles Herpes Simplex Virus Syphilis & Neurosyphilis Treatments for Opportunistic Infections (OIs) What is AIDS & HIV? Hepatitis & HIV 15 Years Ago In POZ ACT UP's First Days Larry Kramer Gets Angry Radiant Radical Adventures in Brain Chemistry Cackles, Cauldrons, and Carrots » Full Issue More Web Exclusives Click here for more news Have news about HIV? Send press releases, news tips and other announcements to news@poz.com . March 7, 2007 Getting Snippy:  Where Circumcision Meets HIV Prevention—And Where it Doesn’t by James Wortman One afternoon last month at a safe sex workshop in San Antonio, John Barbo tore into a box of condoms and slipped one over a dildo. There are two different ways to do this, he told a dozen or so men who have sex with men (MSMs), depending on whether the penis is circumcised or not… Huh? Circumcised or not? A 32-year-old African-American man in the room was confused: Can’t circumcised men skip condoms altogether and still prevent HIV transmission? Isn’t that what he heard the other day on the news? Not exactly. Foreskin or no foreskin, tossing your Trojans is not an option. New studies in Sub-Saharan Africa do show that circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection in men having vaginal sex with positive women by up to 60 percent—a major finding that is being hailed around the world as the biggest prevention breakthrough since microbicides. But some people are getting the wrong idea. “Statistically [circumcision] does reduce the risk, but calling it a prevention method sends a mixed message,” says Barbo, who used his group member’s confusion that afternoon at San Antonio’s BEAT AIDS as an excuse to put the science in context for the whole crowd: Circumcision isn’t HIV prevention but a form of harm reduction—one tool among many recommended for lowering overall risk for certain people. Clearing up the mixed message about circumcision is a top concern now for prevention experts not just in U.S. cities and towns where TV and newspapers delivered the dramatic foreskin news last month with great fanfare—but all around the world. “People should be thinking that this is an important development, but it’s not the magic bullet,” says Paul Zeitz, MD, of Global AIDS Alliance . Adds Carolyn Williams, PhD, at the National Institutes of Health , “Circumcision is a good option [to further reduce the risk of HIV transmission], but it’s not a substitution for anything that’s been in the prevention package before.” This week, health experts are holding a special United Nations meeting in Montreux, Switzerland, to clear up some of the confusion before it snowballs. The main challenges: How to ensure that people don’t see circumcision as a free pass for having unsafe sex; and how to promote circumcision even though conducting the procedure in sub-standard health care settings can sometimes encourage HIV infection, a concern that was at the heart of a cautionary study released just last week. Prevention experts point to the limitations of the African data: No one has looked yet at circumcision’s effects on anything but female-to-male transmission. “We’re encouraging further research because we need to know how effective circumcision may be for [preventing HIV transmission to straight women], gay men and anyone who engages in anal sex,” says Judith Auerbach, PhD, of the San Francisco AIDS Foundation . And what do the African findings mean for Americans per se? In the U.S., approximately 80% of men are already circumcised, mostly at birth, and only 15% of new HIV infections are from heterosexual sex. Circumcision is a painful procedure for adults to endure; is anyone really sure it’s worth going through? Among the goals of this week’s U.N. meeting are setting hygienic standards such as sterilizing equipment before performing circumcisions and drafting strategies to make sure that men don’t have sex until their penises have time to heal . “We need to make sure that [circumcision is] done in an optimal way so that there is no risk of transmission,” says Zeitz, who is particularly concerned that, with all the fuss in Africa now about circumcision being advantageous, traditional practices may escalate before the U.N. gets a chance to establish these standards. Not to mention the trickiness of implementing them in areas of the world, such as tribal Africa, where circumcision may be a rite of passage and outside advice is simply not welcome. John Barbo’s concerns about delivering the circumcision news in San Antonio are closer to Africa’s prevention predicaments than you might think. Even in the most equipped U.S. health care setting, it’s not a simple message. “We have a bad enough problem with HIV spreading,” he says. “Telling people to get circumcised just creates more.” [ Go to top ] Quick Links Current Issue HIV 101 HIV Testing Safer Sex Find a Date Newly Diagnosed Disclosing Your Status POZ TV Read the Blogs Visit the Forums Women African American Latino Providers Advocacy Job Listings Events Calendar Starting Treatment Road to Washington Personals Forums Blogs POZ TV dambitious Baltimore Co. Maryland tomben56 folsom California Rachel21 New Albany Indiana gilfromaustintx bastrop Texas Click here to join POZ Personals! Talk to Us Poll Will you be participating in the National Week of Prayer for Healing AIDS 2012 ? Yes No Survey Sex Talk more surveys Contact Us We welcome your comments! [ about Smart + Strong | about POZ | POZ advisory board | partner links | advertising policy | advertise/contact us | site map ] ©  2012 Smart + Strong . All Rights Reserved. Terms of use and Your privacy . Smart 