
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 18 Mar 2012 03:59:28 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.360menopause.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Menopause Support | Home Menopause About Us Meet Our Experts Articles Blog FAQs Partners Products Severe Headaches and Menopause Posted by 360admin |  Posted on 10-03-2012 Category : Hormonal Changes Tags: headache remedies , menopause education , menopause migraines , menopause relief , menopause support , severe headaches Interviewer: Gail Edgell Gail Edgell: What exactly are headaches? Dr. Painovich: There are several types of headaches. They can go from tension headaches to migraines, cluster headaches and headaches that we think are hormonally induced. The interesting thing about headaches is that from a Western medicine side, there are no real known causes of headaches. It’s an enigma. We know people have them. But we have not been able to figure out what is going on when people experience different types of headaches. The good news is that there are a lot of alternatives, such as acupuncture and traditional Chinese medicine that can be quite good for not only eliminating headaches but also eliminating them completely. Gail Edgell: Are there different treatment options available based on what doctors think cause a headache — if it’s coming from a food-based issue verses a hormone-based issue, for example? Dr. Painovich: From a Western-medicine standpoint, I don’t know if it looks at that specific of a cause. I do know that certain types of foods can trigger headaches. Let’s talk about the different types of headaches, what causes them, and go from there. It’s such a broad topic. Tension headaches, which are the headaches that you feel in the neck, shoulders and back, are the most common. Those are usually due to tight muscles in your shoulders, neck, scalp and jaw. Those are usually tolerable for most people and can be relieved with painkillers. But if somebody happens to have these on a daily basis, it can certainly interfere with his or her quality of life. We do not know the causal factor. But we think that it’s just those tight muscles, that inflammation that just presses on the nerves enough to cause some pain in those particular areas. Western-medicine practitioners will tell you to take a pain-reliever and do some relaxation exercises, just to try and reduce that tension in the body. When you start to talk about migraine headaches and cluster headaches, migraines are the most common — three times more common in women. Cluster headaches, which are much less frequent, are found in the male population. Doctors think that migraines definitely have to do with the constricting and dilating of blood vessels in the head. But it is believed that people who suffer from migraine headaches tend to have more sensitive nervous systems, meaning that they are more easily triggered by foods or environmental stressors. When those things are triggered, it causes this whole kind of neurochemical reaction in the brain. Currently, what the research shows — this is the most common theory, and just a theory — is that when the nervous system gets triggered, it causes the arteries in the brain to constrict. When they constrict, they cause a large amount of serotonin to be released. Whether people know it or not, serotonin can be associated with a lot of other things such as depression, anxiety and some pain syndromes outside of headaches. The body gets this big surge of serotonin. But the body has a system of checks and balances. This large amount of serotonin causes all these other neurotransmitters to get released, to go up there and say, “Oh, these arteries can’t be constricted. We need to let these arteries relax.” These neurochemicals cause a very fast and acute dilation of arteries in the brain. That dilation causes the swelling of these arteries, which then press on the nerves. That is what causes the migraine pain to occur. Researchers have done studies that look at levels of serotonin right before a migraine hits that show those levels can be very high. Those same levels during or after a migraine are very low. They think it’s that whole reaction that happens, these big surges and high levels to low levels, that cause the over-dilation in the brain and the arteries that cause the pain in the head. Some premenopausal and menopausal women say, “I definitely have migraines that are associated with the start of the period or the end of the period.” That is probably due to the fluctuation of high levels of estrogen, higher levels going to lower levels. This is the same with progesterone. They think that if that is really what is causing the migraines, the migraines should actually ease as they go into menopause or are through menopause. Whether that happens or not is a whole other issue. Gail Edgell: Getting back to migraines and cluster headaches, what is the typical form of testing? Do doctors typically prescribe synthetic medications? And if we move into a more naturopathic approach, are we actually looking at things like food allergies or environmental toxins? Dr. Painovich: Again, from a Western-medicine standpoint, they try to put people on preventive medication, things that will decrease that sympathetic tone or that vulnerability of the nervous system. It may prevent fewer occurrences. But they also give them medication for acute occurrences because, typically, that doesn’t stop the headache from coming on. Unfortunately, these medications tend to have some unwanted side-effects. From a Chinese-medicine standpoint, we don’t look at levels of serotonin and those sorts of things. We break it down very specifically to where the headache is. Is it in the back of the head, the top of the head, or the side of the head? When does it happen? We are looking for patterns of disharmony. We are looking for that root cause of what is causing these headaches to occur. We rarely treat symptomatically; we look at what is going on from the root standpoint. If we figure this out, the headaches should go away, not only temporarily but for a lifetime. We always take a holistic approach. We will certainly look at the foods and environmental toxins that you are taking in. But we also talk about exercise and life stressors. We look at everything. When we meet and consult with patients, we certainly touch on all of those things. Then we specifically get into the way that we treat. I use acupuncture and herbs to treat these headaches. There have been several studies that have shown that acupuncture is one of the best treatment modalities. We’ve found that it is not only effective in stopping the discomfort but in reducing time away from work, family and such. When you look at the cost-effectiveness and quality of life, you find that acupuncture is one of the most cost-effective treatments that you can do for headaches. It doesn’t surprise me. When we look at a deeper level of studies that have been done on acupuncture, we know two things for sure. One is that it reduces stress and that sympathetic tone of the body. If that is calmer, people are not as susceptible to triggers. The other thing we know is that it definitely reduces or stabilizes serotoninlevels. The two big things that practitioners of Western medicine think cause these migraine headaches are two things that are directly affected in a positive way through acupuncture. Acupuncture also releases opiates — endorphins and things like that that help reduce pain — into the system. When you take that all together, it’s really quite easy to see why acupuncture works so well in helping get rid of these chronic headache problems that people suffer. Gail Edgell: Just to sum it up, there are three types of headaches: tension headaches, migraines, cluster headaches and hormonal headaches (PMS or menopausal related). Some things people can do to lessen their frequency and severity include relaxation — perhaps yoga or meditation — exercise and examining stress levels, food allergies and environmental toxins that may trigger them. People should start looking at all of these. And if they cannot resolve the headaches on their own, they should start looking at acupuncture, which is one of the best means of treating this ailment. Did I miss anything? Dr. Painovich: I don’t think so. It comes down to maintaining a healthy lifestyle. If that doesn’t do it, seek out a professional such as an acupuncturist to get you to that next level of increased quality of life. Note: This article is an edited transcript of an audio interview. Changes have been made. Skin Aging – What You Can Do Posted by 360admin |  Posted on 05-03-2012 Category : Skin Care Tags: aging skin , anti aging skin , anti aging skin care , menopause , menopause education , menopause support , skin aging Natural Anti-Aging Expert’s Name:  Carrie Pierce The skin is a very complex -and incredible- organ. Living, breathing and renewing, it serves as the body’s second bowel, third kidney and third lung. Consisting of –basically-3 layers and millions of cells, it comprises approx. 5% of a person’s body weight and absorbs molecularly -from one degree to another- what is applied to it. The outermost layer of the skin-the epidermis- renews itself approximately every 28 days. The act of Aging slows this renewal process-causing dead skin cells to cling to the surface of the skin, creating an unhealthy appearance, and enhancing the wrinkling, bagging, sagging and dullness so often associated with age. And as a reminder to you, much of having healthy, radiant skin is an inside job. There are things that can be done daily-both internally and externally- to care for the skin and keep it radiant, healthy, firm and beautiful. Today, let’s take a closer look at the role Omega fatty acids play in beauty-especially during Menopause. In today’s world, FAT seems to be a word to be avoided at all costs- but nothing could be further from the truth! In actuality, the right fat- in the right amount can be a powerful, potent beauty and health elixir. It’s crucial to understand not only the importance of the essential fatty acids- but the role each plays- especially in the area of Menopausal skin, hair and nail care. Essential Fatty Acids (EFA’s) are further classified as the Omegas: Omega 3/6/and 9. New research conducted in the past three years has also indicated the existence of a substance now known as Omega 7, which is proving to provide powerful anti-inflammatory benefits. For now though, let’s focus on the more recognized Omegas. There are 2 types of Omega 3 fats: DHA (ethyl-docosahexaenoic acid) and EPA ( ethyl eicosapentaenoic acid). The Omega 6 EFA is thought to stem primarily from linoleic acid.  Linoleic acid is then converted to gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) in the body. GLA is an important inflammation fighter and also has a role to play in the balancing of hormones and the maintenance of healthy skin-again, especially during Menopause. These essential fatty acids are required by the body to function optimally. The body does not manufacture EFA’s on its own, consequently these all-important fats must be supplied by our diet. The Omegas are actually present in the cellular membranes of every single cell of the human body- so it’s easy to see how important they are! Much of the changes seen in a woman’s skin as she ages are actually due to oxidative processes – the internal ‘rusting’ that takes place as the body becomes long on toxic overload and short on antioxidants and essential nutrients. In Part Two of this article series, we’ll take a closer look at this internal ‘rusting’ process and discuss the powerful solutions that have been proven to correct and lessen this damage. Don’t miss it! Go Green – Vegan Foods Posted by 360admin |  Posted on 01-03-2012 Category : Healthy Eating and Cooking Tags: menopause diet , menopause support , menopause weight gain , vegan diet , vegan foods , vegan weight loss , weight loss Vegan Diet and Weight Loss Expert’s Name:  Lisa Enslow Everyone is talking about going green these days. Whether it’s an effort to recycle, re-using grocery bags, using natural cleaners in the home, or walking instead of driving, there is an increasing awareness about the impact our lifestyle has on the planet. There are many opportunities to “go green” when it comes to food, and coincidentally they are all health promoting! Here are some ways to “go green” when shopping for your food. Green Made Easy Buy Organic : Organic produce is healthy for your body as it is free of the pesticides/ chemicals that conventional produce is treated with. It’s also better for the land, water, air and workers on the farms. For a list of the foods that are treated with the most pesticides (The Dirty Dozen), check out the Environmental Working Group’s website for their wallet guide ( http://www.foodnews.org/walletguide.php .). Go Local : Seek out local, seasonal food to eat healthfully and help the environment. At the supermarket, tune in to the origin of the produce you see. Many items have traveled halfway around the world to end up in your local market. In the process, they lose nutrients and freshness and also use up natural resources in transportation.   Find great local produce at farmers markets in the summer and fall. Supporting local farmers also helps your local economy! In addition, you can talk to the manager at your local supermarkets and tell him/her that you’d like to see produce from local farmers stocked at their market. Eat with the Seasons : There was once a time when you couldn’t find grapes, strawberries and blueberries for sale in the dead of winter. While it is a sign of our global marketplace (and often really wonderful to be able to eat a pineapple in January), it is worth the effort to eat with the seasons and try to eat the produce that is grown locally. Here is a sampling of seasonally available vegetables: * Spring : artichokes, asparagus, beets and beet greens, Brussels sprouts, chard, garlic, green onions, leeks, spinach, and wild greens. * Summer : beets and beet greens, corn, eggplant, new potatoes, peppers, zucchini and yellow squash, sugar snap peas. * Fall : bell peppers, broccoli, cauliflower, celery, corn, acorn squash, butternut squash, okra, potatoes, spinach, zucchini. * Winter : bok choy, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, chard, kale, hard squashes, onions, potatoes, sweet potatoes or yams. Your Greenbacks Have Power Remember, every time you choose to buy organic produce or request and buy local and/or seasonal produce, you are influencing the marketplace by “voting with your fork”. If the managers of your supermarkets notice people buying more of the “green” items, they will stock more of them. This will support the local farmers and encourage their growth and success.   Buying organic will also encourage the growth of organic farms, which will be good for both the health of our citizens and for the environment. And if enough people shop this way, and the market grows, the costs for these healthy foods will come down and more people will be able to afford them! Previous Twitter Updates... My Videos High Intensity Training Gluten and Menopause Categories Cancer (7) Charity/Volunteering (2) Diet and Nutrition (24) Emotions (11) Environment (2) Exercise (6) Facts (8) Healthy Eating and Cooking (8) Hormonal Changes (13) Hormone Replacement (8) Menopause Facts (1) Natural Healing (4) Nutritional Support (3) Other Menopausal Topics (5) Radio Shows (2) Sex Drive/Libido (4) Skin Care (5) Strength Training (2) Treatment Options (1) Uncategorized (3) Vitamins (1) Vitamins, Minerals, Supplements (6) Weight (10) Your Hormones (3) Recommended Blog Talk Radio Listen to internet radio with MagnificentMenopause on Blog Talk Radio Check out our other sit