
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 21:51:43 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: frontend=n6n1qej3oqjlfut5l8498i24q6; expires=Fri, 02-Mar-2012 22:51:43 GMT; path=/; domain=www.healthdesigns.com; httponly
P3p: CP="CAO PSA OUR"
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz  | healthdesigns.com - Your Health Is Here JavaScript seem to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Cellucor C4 $29.99 + Free Shipping | Free Samples | NEW! Refer Friends, Earn $ Welcome to HealthDesigns.com! Log In or register . Buy Vitamins, Supplements, Herbs, Minerals and many more Nutritional Products Online My Cart ( 0 ) | Checkout Close Recently added item(s) You have no items in your shopping cart. My Account My Wishlist Search site: Go Advanced Search Brands Supplements Bath & Beauty Health Conditions Sports Food & Grocery Household Pets New Home / Brands / Metagenics / Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz Home / Supplements / Probiotics / Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz Home / Brands / Metagenics / Metagenics Q-Z / Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz Home / Brands / Metagenics / Metagenics, Gastrointestinal Health / Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz Home / Professional Brands / Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz SKU: ME-001259 Availability : In stock Quantity Available :9 Price : $35.50 Qty: Add to Cart Add to Wishlist | Add to Compare Be the first to ask about this product 2 Review(s) | Add Your Review Customers Who Bought This Also Bought Check items to add to the cart or select all Integrative Therapeutics, Tyler Similase 90 Vegetable Capsules Price: $24.00 Our Price: Add to cart to see the price! Add to Wishlist Metagenics, UltraMeal Bar RICE Natural Chocolate Fudge 12 Bars Price : $29.75 Add to Wishlist Metagenics, UltraMeal Bar RICE Almond & Vanilla 12 Bars Price : $29.75 Add to Wishlist Product Description Products Questions Product Reviews UPC 755571031228 Serving Size 1/4 Teaspoon Description Ultra Flora Plus DF is a patented† probiotic formula blended with a non-dairy powder that provides highly viable, pure strains of Lactobacillus acidophilus (NCFM strain) and Bifidobacterium lactis along with supportive factors. Helps maintain a healthy balance of intestinal flora and is designed to provide intestinal support on multiple levels. Provides the valuable Probio-Saccharide factor, fructooligosaccharides (FOS), an excellent food source for beneficial bacteria that helps to promote their growth in the intestine. Produced in a freeze-dried form and refrigerated during storage and shipping for maximum stability, and shipped with the most current viability assay to provide you with assurance of potency. Guaranteed to provide no fewer than 15 billion combined live organisms per serving through date of expiration. The ID Guarantee: The purity, clinical reliability, and predicted safety of Metagenics probiotic formulas are guaranteed through the scientific certification of strains with established health benefits. Assuring potency and high viability, each strain is also tested for acid tolerance and cell adherence in vitro. This product is refrigerated Suggested Use 1/4 teaspoon mixed with four to six ounces unchilled water one to two times daily between meals or as directed by your health care practitioner. Supplement Facts 1/4 TEASPOON (0.75 G) SUPPLIES: A 50:50 blend of: 15 billion live organisms†† Lactobacillus acidophilus NCFM Strain Bifidobacterium lactis Bi-07 (formerly known as B. infantis †††) This product is refrigerated † U.S. Patent Nos. 5,744,134;   6,241,983 †† At date of expiration. Based on proper handling (e.g.,   refrigeration). ††† This B. infantis strain has recently been   reclassified as B. lactis . NCFM is a registered trademark of the   North Carolina Dairy Foundation. *Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli probiotic   strains consume soy and milkderived nutrients as a food source during one step   of the fermentation process. No additional soy or milk-derived nutrients were   added outside of this fermentation step. Other Ingredients Fructooligosaccharides (FOS), Lactobacillus acidophilus (milk, soy)*, Bifidobacterium lactis (milk, soy)*, and rice maltodextrin. Contains: milk, soy. Warnings Keep out of reach of children. Product Special Message This product is perishable and stored accordingly in a refrigeration zone to ensure potency. Healthdesigns has been instructed by suppliers to ship this product in cold packaging to maintain the integrity during transportation. This additional packaging is included at no cost to your order as an added service. We will not hold your order for this item based on transportation time or location as we strive to ship orders out as fast as possible. To ensure potency is maintained, you are encouraged to order early in the week to avoid transit over the weekend and may consider upgrading the shipping method when purchasing this product. Weight 0.8050 Stored and Shipped Cold Yes Package Description 1.76 oz Shipping Group FREE Questions on Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz No questions asked yet Ask Your Own Question Name (will be displayed on site) * Email (will NOT be displayed on site) * Visibility Public Private Question * Submit question Cured my daughter's eczema! : Review by MarylandMom Rating : My first child had eczema almost from birth. It got very bad on the backs of her hands and over her kidneys around a year of age. We found out she was allergic to a number of foods (including dairy) so kept her away from those. Got her muscle tested and kept her away from more foods. Pediatrician helpless. Still plagued by eczema. I read that some pediatricians were treating eczema with probiotics and upon starting this dairy free one, her eczema completely cleared up and stayed away. We tried two other brands when this one ran out, but this one is superior and we are back on it. It's nice that it's a powder because I just mix it with her juice/water in the morning. By : MarylandMom (Posted on 1/30/12) great fast shipping : Review by Jeannine Rating : fast shipping - exactly as described By : Jeannine (Posted on 12/16/10) Write Your Own Review You're reviewing: Metagenics, Ultra Flora Plus DF 1.76 oz * How do you rate this product? 1 star 2 stars 3 stars 4 stars 5 stars Rating * Nickname * Summary of Your Review * Review Submit Review * Required Fields Sign Up for Our Newsletter: Subscribe Contact Us Shipping International Item Availability When will my order ship? Why Shop FAQ Mobile Version Site Map Vendor Information Refer Friends, Earn $ Free Samples Google Affiliates Search Terms What's wrong with this page? Blog @healthdesigns Orders 1-888-311-1146 M-F 9-5 EST Live Chat by Comm100 Comm100 Products: Live Support Software Email Marketing Email Marketing Software Help Desk Software Email Marketing Tips Support Ticket Software Home | Ratings | Security | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy The products and the claims made about specific products on or through this site have not been evaluated by HealthDesigns International, LLC or the United States Food and Drug Administration and are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease. The information provided on this site is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional or any information contained on or in any product label or packaging. You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you might have a health problem. ©Copyright 1997