
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 20:47:45 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: Mono
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Donate | Contact Us | Events | Home By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV By Topic Policy Research Process Ethics Community Engagement Current Research Global Map Timeline Trials Clinical Site Capacity Database Px Wire Anticipating Results Hormonal Contraceptives and HIV Risk Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications Educational Materials Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Advocates' Corner Take Action Advocates' Network P-Values Weekly NewsDigest Calendar of Events The Omololu Falobi Award Links For Media Press Releases AVAC in the News Media Inquiries About AVAC Our Story Programs Staff Donors Board AVAC Fund Support AVAC Financial Information Jobs Quick Links Translate this page Afrikaans Arabic Chinese Simplified Chinese Traditional French German Hindi Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese Russian Spanish Swahili Thai Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications Educational Materials Vaccines Microbicides PrEP Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision Treatment as Prevention Backgrounders: Primers and Fact Sheets Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Share Print An
Advocates' Update on WHO's review of devices
for adult male circumcision in public health
HIV prevention program - March
2012 There is progress towards the
introduction of non-surgical devices for VMMC.
WHO recently issued a limited technical note
which paves the way for Rwanda to introduce one
such device. Click here to find the WHO
document —and an AVAC issue analysis VMMC:
Separating Fact from Fiction - March
2012 This mythbusting document sets
the record straight on voluntary medical male
circumcision. African
Scientists Respond to Attempted Refutation of
VMMC - March 2012 Research on and
implementation of voluntary medical male
circumcision for HIV prevention has been led
and championed by African scientists and
clinicians for more than a decade. Some of
their key contributions to a rebuttal of VMMC
skepticism appears here. Getting
That All Important Cut - March
2012 AVAC Program Advisor, Angelo
Kaggwa recently underwent voluntary medical
male circumcision. Here he discusses his
decision and the experience. Voluntary
Medical Male Circumcision Talking Points -
November 2011 This one page tool
features key statistics and graphics designed
to help advocates in action. Voluntary
Medical Male Circumcision in AVAC Report
2011 - November 2011 AVAC Report 2011:
The End? synthesizes the actions
needed across the spectrum of existing,
emerging and long-term biomedical HIV
prevention tools that could change the AIDS
response forever. This excerpt from our report
highlights VMMC. Making
Medical Male Circumcision Work for
Women - December 2010 This report
from AVAC and ATHENA Network’s Women’s HIV
Prevention Tracking Project is an unprecedented
collection of voices
from Kenya, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland
and Uganda, documents
women’s perspectives on male circumcision for
HIV prevention. Materials: Full
Report Two-Page
Summary MP3
of Global Teleconference with Report's
Authors Individual
Country Report: Kenya Individual
Country Report: Namibia Individual
Country Report: South Africa Individual
Country Report: Swaziland Individual
Country Report: Uganda Funding for Male
Circumcision R&D in 2010 - July
2011 This link from the HIV Vaccines
and Microbicides Resource Tracking Working
Group provides an overview of male circumcision
investment and expenditure over the last few
years. Male
Circumcision Fact Sheet - January
2010 This fact sheet provides basic
information on male circumcision, one of the
options being tested now as part of the effort
to identify additional tools to reduce the risk
of HIV transmission. A
Cautious Nod to the Cut (page 63-68) - ALQ, July
2010 Country
experiences in the scale up of male
circumcision in the Eastern and Southern Africa
Region: Two years and counting - June 2009 Two years since the initial United
Nations recommendations that male circumcision
(MC) be promoted as part of a comprehensive HIV
prevention package, a sub-regional consultation
was held in Windhoek, Namibia June 9-10, 2009
with the overall objective of reporting
progress, sharing experiences, exchanging
ideas, and forging collaborations in the male
circumcision efforts. This is a report of the
progress to date in Eastern and Southern
Africa. Progress
in Male Circumcision Scale-up Country
Implementation Update - WHO & UNAIDS,
July 2009 This is actually an
extract from the above report. The table shows
progress in MC implementation in 13 southern
and eastern African countries with high HIV
prevalence, low levels of male circumcision,
and heterosexual epidemics. The information
about each country was provided by countries,
partners, and UN agencies, mostly from
discussions at one of the discussions following
the 2007 Montreux meeting. Integrating
Male Circumcision with Broader HIV
Prevention - Historically, it's been
difficult to bring men into the health services
for HIV education and frank conversations
around sex and sexuality. Male circumcision for
HIV prevention brings an opportunity to engage
men around HIV prevention, to expand couples
counseling, and to build and/or strengthen
programmes that seek to transform sexual and
gender norms. This document, and the other
documents linked to it, explore these
possibilities. Male circumcision:
Global trends and determinants of prevalence,
safety and acceptability - London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, WHO &
UNAIDS, 2007 This report reviews the
determinants, prevalence, safety, and
acceptability of male circumcision, focusing on
sub-Saharan Africa. United Nations
information package on Male Circumcision - UNAIDS,
UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, and the World
Bank This is a series of four
leaflets that summarize information in key
areas of male circumcision in relation to HIV
prevention: what male circumcision is; global
MC prevalence, including a global map of MC
prevalence at country level; health benefits
and risks associated with MC; the use of MC as
an HIV prevention method; and its implications
for women. A New Way to Protect
Against HIV? Understanding the Results of Male
Circumcision Studies for HIV Prevention - AVAC,
September 2007 This document is
designed to help prevention advocates
understand the ramifications of findings from
studies of male circumcision for HIV prevention
and to explore the opportunities and challenges
associated with implementation. Site Map | Links | Jobs | Disclaimer | Webmaster | © 2012 AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Lima | New York | Rio | London | Johannesburg | Nairobi | Delhi | Bangkok | Sydney AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention 101 West 23rd Street · New York, NY +1 212.796.6423 (main) · avac@avac.org Copyright 2012,  All rights reserved. Design by Lo