
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2012 17:29:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
X-Pingback: http://www.subrecord.org/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural | Women Health Center - Part 4 Women Health Center Search for: Home Posts Tagged ‘Natural’ « Older Entries Newer Entries » Natural Remedy for Bacterial Vaginosis – Do It Yourself Remedies For BV September 1st, 2011 Are you looking for easy, natural remedy for bacterial vaginosis ? Women experience bacterial vaginosis once in their lives that can be caused by hormonal imbalance, poor hygiene, or sexually transmitted. Symptoms accompanying bacterial vaginosis are foul-odor, greyish discharge and itching. When the ob-gyne confirms your bacterial vaginosis, it is likely that you will receive prescriptions for antibacterial medications. You should take these medications for one week. Nonetheless, these medications can cause side-effects like harming the good bacteria found in your vagina. Women often search for the natural remedy for bacterial vaginosis in order to permanently cure this illness. Antibacterial medications often provide temporary relief, as these destroy even the good bacteria that maintains the natural pH. Imbalanced pH levels result to bacterial vaginosis. There are available alternative treatments for bacterial vaginosis. One good example of natural remedy for bacterial vaginosis is eating raw garlic. This would help fight the bad bacteria. You can also try apple cider vinegar or tea tree oil on your bath water. If you prefer an instant relief, try using a hydrogen peroxide solution for douche. If you really want to have the best natural remedy for bacterial vaginosis, you can also try to take acidophilus supplements. Don’t waste time in treating bacterial vaginosis. It is best to look for cures the soonest you find out that you have bacterial vaginosis. Remember the natural remedy for bacterial vaginosis is good hygiene besides the herbal medications and supplements. This will prevent occurrence or recurrence of bacterial vaginosis. Click here: bacterial vaginosis freedom , to read more on how to cure your BV Comments Off » Posted in Uncategorized Tags: Bacterial Natural Remedies Remedy Vaginosis Yourself What Are Some Natural Remedies For Bacterial Vaginosis? – I Have Been To The Gyno 3 Times And Nothing Has Helped! August 31st, 2011 I have had bacterial vaginosis for over 4 months now and I have gone to my gyno three times. Two of the cream treatments he gave me to use, gave me severe allergic reactions and one of the pills didn’t work at all. I apparently have a very small amount of bad bacteria but it just won’t go away and I can’t have sex and it is putting a huge strain on my relationship. I also apparently don’t have enough healthy bacteria either which is why I didn’t want to take my gyno’s 4th suggested treatment because apparently it is harsh (a seven day pill treatment-can’t remember the name). I have been taking probiotics for a month and half now. Is there anything else I can do? I am desperate. This is only one of the thousands of sad recurrent BV stories you will read on the internet when you browse around the web, finding a cure for this condition. I have had this condition too, and treated it! In this short article, I will try to give you some few recommendations that you can use to try treating your recurrent bacterial vaginosis and I will also provide links to some great internet sites where you can find even advanced help for your recurrent BV condition. Treating recurrent bacterial vaginosis is really difficult and if you have been having it for some time and trying to search on the internet to find some kind of help, then you might have come across questions like the one asked above. A bacterial vaginosis natural remedy can be used to treat this infection, instead of antibiotics. When bad bacteria attack a woman’s vagina, many uncomfortable symptoms can be experienced. These include burning, swelling, smelly and unpleasant discharge, soreness, inflammation, urinary discomfort, and pain during sex. Typically, what conventional doctors would recommend would be prescription drugs and creams to deal with these symptoms. However, there are also natural remedies that can help you deal with them. Naturopathic doctors say that the vagina has its own ecosystem. Both good and bad bacteria can be found in this ecosystem. The good bacteria strains help your body from bad bacteria and other harmful organisms. A bacterial vaginosis natural remedy helps create an environment where bad organisms find difficult to thrive. It also restores the vagina’s normal pH, decrease irritation and inflammation, and do away with the infecting organisms. Still, the success of treating this condition is largely dependent on correctly diagnosing the root cause of the problem. Vaginitis can happen because of 2 main reasons. It can be either from a bacterial infection, or from the fungal yeast Candida albicans. For a successful recovery, it is important that you use the appropriate treatment to target the type of bacteria, yeast or parasite that is invading your body. In the meantime, you should also avoid consuming processed sugar, refined carbohydrates or alcohol. Ask your herbalist about the following options for a bacterial vaginosis natural remedy that is most suitable for your case: 1. Garlic can help fight against infections as it contains many antibacterial and antifungal properties. This is why it is one of the best herbal remedies for treating bacterial infections such as vaginal infections. If you wish to consume garlic in the form of a supplement, it should contain 5,000 micrograms of alliums (the compound in garlic that contains the highest infection-fighting properties ). Take 1 or 2 garlic capsules per day until the symptoms subside. 2. Goldenseal contains many immunity-boosting properties. It has a chemical that has been shown to fight off bacteria and Candida fungus that reside in the vagina’ mucous membranes. Generally, what is recommended is a dosage of about two 500-milligram goldenseal capsules once or twice a day until the symptoms of bacterial vaginosis recede. 3. Tracheal is a traditional herb that you can use to remove toxins such as bacteria or parasites from your body. You can also use this herb to restore a normal flow of bodily fluids. For a home remedy, simply soak one teaspoon of dried tracheal in 1 cup of hot water. Drink this as a tea before bedtime. If you dislike the taste of this tea, you can always consume two 500-milligram capsules of this bacterial vaginosis natural remedy before bedtime daily instead. 4. There is also this very great bacterial vaginosis cure guide which helped me a lot when I was struggling with my recurrent BV. The guide I am talking about is called: Bacterial Vaginosis Freedom written by Elena Peterson. I have recommended this guide to so many friends, family members and loved ones who had problems with recurrent BV, and most of them totally cured their condition just by following the recommendations in this guide. I will advise any woman who is struggling with persistent, chronic and recurrent BV to get a copy of the Bacterial Vaginosis Freedom guide and follow the recommendations in it. Click here: Bacterial Vaginosis Freedom, to read more about this guide and see how it has been helping thousands of women all over the world in curing their recurrent bacterial vaginosis. Comments Off » Posted in Uncategorized Tags: Bacterial Been Gyno Helped Natural Nothing Remedies Some Times Vaginosis 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Recent Posts Depression in Seniors and What Caregiver Can do to Help For any individual considering the rest medicine ambien negative effects are necessary to know. Simplifying Tai Cheng? High Curler On the internet Casino Person Rewards Sacramento Dentist Offering Emgergency Dental Encouraging the growth of your penis Good Choices for Your Health Medical Billing  in news reports, in search of good ways to find healthcare billing Kinds of Nike Dunks translate individuals brain via basketball shoes or boots to skatboarding Levitra Vardenafil – Helpful Medication For Impotence Erection Problems Due to Radiotherapy Is Usually Improved upon! Fast Ejaculation Medication Priligy Now on Sale – But Manages to do it Produce on Its Promise? How Does Propecia (Finasteride) Aid In The Treating Hair Loss? Nervousness, Insomnia and Tremors – Require Assistance Busting These Criminals? How to discuss Your Constant Discomfort With Your Physician Quicker Related Links Topics About Amenorrhea Bacterial Better Breast Breasts Cancer Care Causes Cure Cures Discharge Disorders during Dysfunction Female from Health Herbs Home Know Libido Mark Marks Menstruation Natural Naturally Pain pregnancy Prenatal Prevent Problems Remedies Sexual Stretch Symptoms tips Treat Treatment Treatments 