Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Kent Family Dentistry K ent Family Dentistry Evening & Saturday Appts Home Page :: New Patients :: About Us :: Services :: FAQs :: Hours/Map :: Contact Us :: Account Access :: Frequently Asked Questions Our teeth are constantly being covered with a sticky film of bacteria 
			called plaque. When we eat or drink anything that contains sugar or 
			starch such as milk, bread, biscuits, lollies, soft drinks, juice, 
			fruit, and many other foods and beverages - bacteria turn the sugar 
			and starch into acids that can attack tooth enamel. 1. The Reason for Dental Sealants One of the most common places that tooth decay develops is on the 
			chewing surfaces of the back teeth called premolars and molars. When 
			you run your tongue along the chewing surfaces of the back teeth, 
			you can feel depressions and grooves. These indentations called pits 
			and fissures help to grind food. Regular brushing and cleaning between teeth with floss or another 
			interdental cleaner helps remove food particles and bacteria from 
			the smooth surfaces of tooth enamel. However, pits and fissures are 
			difficult to keep clean. That's because toothbrush bristles can not 
			reach into the microscopic grooves to remove plaque bacteria and 
			tiny particles of food. 2. The Benefits of Dental Sealants Because pits and fissures are difficult to keep clean, our 
			participating dentists may recommend dental sealants. A dental 
			sealant is a plastic material that is applied to a chewing surface 
			of a back tooth. The sealant acts as a barrier protecting enamel 
			from plaque and acid. Dental sealants have been used safely and effectively for more 
			than two decades. They can benefit children and adults. The 
			likelihood of developing tooth decay on the chewing surfaces begins 
			early in life, so children and teenagers are obvious candidates for 
			sealants. Adults can benefit from sealants too because one never 
			outgrows cavities. Sealants protect vulnerable areas such as pits 
			and fissures by sealing out plaque and food 3. Applying Sealants The procedure is simple and fast and there is little if any 
			discomfort. First, the teeth to be sealed are thoroughly cleaned and 
			conditioned. Our participating dentists then apply the sealant to 
			the tooth's chewing surface where it bonds with enamel. A special 
			curing light may be used to help the sealant harden. As long as the sealant remains intact, the tooth's chewing 
			surface will be protected from decay. Sealants which hold up well 
			under the incredible force of everyday chewing usually last for 
			several years before a reapplication is needed. Our participating 
			dentists check their condition during regular examinations. 4. Dental Sealants and Your Smile When it comes to your health, prevention is always better than 
			treatment. Properly applied and maintained sealants are extremely 
			helpful in preventing pit-and-fissure decay and they are cost 
			effective. To maintain a healthy smile, look for oral hygiene products that 
			have the Australian Dental Association seal of acceptance which is 
			your assurance that they have met the ADA's criteria for safety and 
			effectiveness for their intended use. Brush twice a day with fluoride toothpaste and clean between 
			teeth once a day with floss or another interdental cleaner. Schedule 
			regular dental visits and avoid frequent between meal snacks. Previous Next Kent Dentist, Dentists Hugh Leung DMD DDS Family Dentistry 431 East Ward Street, Kent, Washington, WA 98030 Family 
	Dentist, Dentists serving Kent WA Washington and the surrounding areas. Implants, Cosmetics, Veneers. Auburn, Renton, Covington, Des Moines, Tukwi