
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 04:15:12 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.causesandremedies.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Aloe Vera Home Causes and Remedies Aloe Vera Aloe Vera, a Natural Heartburn Remedy by Causes and Remedies If you suffer from heartburn, you might want to look into using aloe vera as a natural remedy. Aloe is perfect for reducing your acid reflux because it can help neutralize the stomach acid in your gut. Less stomach acid means less of a chance of suffering from acid reflux. If you have just suffered from a bout of acid reflux, you can take a small dose of aloe vera juice to help soothe the burning feeling in your esophagus. Another benefit of aloe is that it may improve your circulation by dilating your blood vessels. Improved circulation means that fresh blood flows to those tissues that may be damaged by heartburn, specifically in the lining of the esophagus which may result in faster healing. Aloe vera is also packed with other useful ingredients for your body including magnesium, calcium, amino acids, and protein, along with a host of vitamins such as A, B12, C, and E. Now that you have read the benefits of aloe vera, you might be wondering how you can incorporate it into your daily routine to combat your nasty acid reflux symptoms. Well, you have a couple of options. You might want to look into buying aloe vera juice. Aloe vera juice is perfect when you need to soothe away the pain caused by acid reflux. However, it is best to start off small by taking a quarter cup of aloe vera juice ten to twenty minutes before you eat your largest meal of the day. If things go well for you, then you can try and take a quarter cup of aloe juice ten to twenty minutes before every meal. Another option, if you have a green thumb, would be to grow your own aloe vera plant. Cut one of the bottom most leaves from the aloe plant. Squeeze the juice from the fresh cut leaf into a glass. Add water to the glass and mix until a consistent liquid is formed. Again, drink ten to twenty minutes before you eat a meal. If you don’t manage to squeeze all the juice out of the fresh cut aloe leaf that’s okay. You can always place it in the refrigerator for use later. One of the quickest and easiest methods of getting your dose of aloe is to visit your local health food store and purchase aloe vera capsules. The typical dosage is one capsule with an eight ounce glass of water before every meal. There are a couple of warnings that need to be mentioned before you go off and start using aloe. Aloe can be a powerful laxative. Start by taking a small dose one time a day after your heaviest meal. If you don’t have any adverse affects, then you can increase your dose to two times a day and so forth. You might also consider taking your dose of aloe with lemon or mint to help reduce the potential risk of diarrhea. If you are diabetic, consult with your doctor first before you take aloe because aloe has been known to reduce blood sugar levels. One final precaution for any of our readers that might be pregnant or are currently breastfeeding, we don’t recommend that you use aloe to treat your heartburn. Causes and Remedies Quick Tip Summary Aloe vera can be used as a natural acid reflux remedy. Aloe can help soothe the lining of your esophagus after you suffer from a bout of acid reflux. Try aloe vera juice, fresh squeezed aloe vera leaves, or aloe vera capsules to get the heartburn benefits of aloe. Aloe can be a powerful laxative so start with a small dose and work your way up. Don’t take aloe if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. You Might Also Like the Following Related Posts: Suffering From Heartburn After Drinking Alcohol? Low Stomach Acid a Cause for Heartburn? Eating Papaya During Pregnancy for Heartburn Relief { 0 comments } Search Our Site Causes & Remedies Anti-Wrinkles (7) Diet (2) Fiber (1) Green Tea (1) Iron (1) Lycopene (1) Omega 3 (1) Silica (1) Heartburn (21) Alcohol (1) Aloe Vera (1) Bitter Herbs (1) Caffeine (1) Chamomile (1) Coffee (1) Definition of (1) Elevate your Head (1) Exercise (2) Fatty Foods (1) GERD (1) Ginger (1) Heart Attack or Heartburn (1) Improper Chewing (1) Low Stomach Acid (1) Nighttime Heartburn (2) Obesity (1) Papaya (1) Rooibos Tea (1) Smaller & Fewer Meals (1) Smoking (1) Soda (1) Stress (1) Motion Sickness (3) Anatomy of Motion Sickness (1) Causes of Motion Sickness (1) Ginger (1) Uncategorized (2) Connect With Us Hey There! We are Causes and Remedies - The Creators of this site.  We made this site with one goal in mind - To help you find your individual remedy so that you can treat or even cure a specific ailment.  We have helped people all over the world through the remedies offered on this site, and it's a VERY rewarding experience. Check Out Our Latest Posts Eating Papaya During Pregnancy for Heartburn Relief Not Ginger as a Motion Sickness Remedy, Again? Motion Sickness Causes Anatomy of Motion Sickness Fiber for Healthy Sk