
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
Set-Cookie: BOLISMOBILEBROWSER=false;domain=avistahospital;expires=Wed, 23-Apr-2042 09:19:34 GMT;path=/
Set-Cookie: STRMOBILETYPE=unknown;domain=avistahospital;expires=Wed, 23-Apr-2042 09:19:34 GMT;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTBL_NAVBAR_BOLINHERITLEVEL=false;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTBL_NAVBAR_VERSION=1;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTABLE_NAVBAR1=;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTABLE_NAVBAR1=;path=/
Set-Cookie: SLIDINGTBL_NAVBAR_VERSION=;path=/
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 09:19:33 GMT
Connection: close

Arthritis Symptoms & Treatment Text Version | Change Text Size: Contact Us Find a Doctor Careers For the Media Centura Facilities & Services Home About Us Centura Connected Centura Health 2020 Our Mission & Values Our Community Our Sponsor Our History Our Hospital Leadership Centura Health Our Green Hospital Facts About Avista Mission & Ministry Avista Foundation For Patients Online Pre-Registration Quality & Patient Safety Family Life Education Classes Find Our Facility Visiting Hours Preparing for a Procedure Hospitalist Program Patient Grievance Process Patient Representatives Hospital Amenities Pre-Admission & Testing Privacy Practices iTriage Patient Bill of Rights Advance Directives Senior Services ASK-A-NURSE® Checking on a Patient Customer Service Patient Web Pages Health Library Specialties Critical Care Unit Emergency Services New Life Birth Center Cardiac Care Joint Care Center Diagnostic Imaging Laboratory Services Medical Surgery Telemetry Pediatric Services Physical, Occupational & Speech Therapy Surgery Services Spine Care Program Payment & Insurance Online Bill Pay Medicare Information Insurances Accepted at Avista Tips on Navigating Medical Bills Billing Questions Uninsured Insurance Counseling for Seniors News & Community Volunteer Avista Foundation Vim & Vigor Online Avista in the News H1N1 Flu Information Careers Search Our Jobs What Makes Us Unique? Benefits Colorado Life How We Hire Education and Professional Development Find a Location: Find a Location List of Facilities & Services... Centura Health Avista Adventist Hospital Castle Rock Adventist Health Campus Centura Health at Home Centura Regional Float Pool Centura Senior Living & Long Term Care Flight For Life® Colorado Littleton Adventist Hospital Mercy Regional Medical Center OrthoColorado Hospital Parker Adventist Hospital Penrose-St. Francis Health Services Porter Adventist Hospital St. Anthony Hospital St. Anthony Mountain Clinics St. Anthony North St. Anthony Summit Medical Center St. Mary-Corwin Medical Center St. Thomas More Hospital or Map of Locations Find a Doctor: Find a Doctor Physician's Specialty Administrative Medicine Allergy and Immunology Anesthesiology Anesthesiology Assistant Anesthesiology, Critical Care Anesthesiology, Pediatric Blood Banking Breast Care/Surgical Oncologist Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiothoracic Surgery Cardiovascular Disease Certified Nurse Midwife Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Nurse Specialist Clinical Research Nurse Colon and Rectal Surgery Critical Care Dentistry, General Dentistry, Pediatric Dermatology Dermatopathology Drugs & Alcohol Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Endocrinology / Metabolism Epilepsy Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Family Medicine Gastroenterology General Surgery Genetics Geriatric Medicine Gynecology / Oncology Hand & Upper Extremeties Hand Surgery Hematology/Oncology Hospitalist Infectious Diseases Infertility Internal Medicine Intraop/Neurodiagnostic Monitoring IOM Monitoring Oversight Maternal & Fetal Medicine Medical Oncology Medical Research Assistant Medical Toxicology Neonatal - Perinatal Medicine Neonatal Nurse Practitioner Nephrology Neurological Surgery Neurology Nuclear Medicine Nurse Practitioner Obstetrics & Gynecology (OB / GYN) Occupational Medicine Oculoplastic Surgery Oncology Ophthalmology Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Orthopedic Surgery Osteopathic Otolaryngology (ENT) Otolaryngology/Neurology Outpatient Pain Management Palliative Medicine Pathology Pathology, Anatomical Pathology, Clinical Pathology, Cytopathology Pediatrics Pediatrics, Allergy and Immunology Pediatrics, Cardiology Pediatrics, Emergency Medicine Pediatrics, Endocrinology Pediatrics, Gastroenterology Pediatrics, Hematology-Oncology Pediatrics, Neurology Pediatrics, Oncology Pediatrics, Ophthalmology Pediatrics, Orthopedics Pediatrics, Otolaryngology Pediatrics, Pathology Pediatrics, Pulmonary Pediatrics, Surgery Pediatrics, Urology Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician Assistant Plastic Surgery Podiatry Podiatry, Foot and Ankle Surgery Psychiatric Case Manager Psychiatry Psychiatry / Neurology Psychiatry, Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Forensic Psychology Pulmonary Disease Pulmonary/Critical Care Radiation Oncology Radiology Radiology, Diagnostic Radiology, Interventional Radiology, Neuroradiology Registered Nurse Reproductive Endocrinology Rheumatology RN Clinician RN Practitioner Sleep Medicine Spine Surgery Sports Medicine Surgical Critical Care Teleradiology Thoracic Surgery Trauma Urgent Care Urogynecology Urology Vascular Surgery and/or Advanced Search Home > Article Manager Article Manager Health Information Encyclopedia - Disease & Conditions Search Health Information Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Osteoarthritis vs. rheumatoid arthritis Arthritis in hip Synovial fluid Rheumatoid arthritis Knee joint replacement - series Arthritis Definition: Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints, which results in pain, swelling, stiffness, and limited movement. There are over 100 different types of arthritis. See also: Joint pain Alternative Names: Joint inflammation Causes, incidence, and risk factors: Arthritis involves the breakdown of cartilage. Cartilage normally protects the joint, allowing for smooth movement. Cartilage also absorbs shock when pressure is placed on the joint, like when you walk. Without the usual amount of cartilage, the bones rub together, causing pain, swelling (inflammation), and stiffness. You may have joint inflammation for a variety of reasons, including: An autoimmune disease (the body attacks itself because the immune system believes a body part is foreign) Broken bone General "wear and tear" on joints Infection (usually caused by bacteria or viruses) Often, the inflammation goes away after the injury has healed, the disease is treated, or the infection has been cleared. With some injuries and diseases, the inflammation does not go away or destruction results in long-term pain and deformity. When this happens, you have chronic arthritis. Osteoarthritis is the most common type and is more likely to occur as you age. You may feel it in any of your joints, but most commonly in your hips, knees or fingers. Risk factors for osteoarthritis include: Being overweight Previously injuring the affected joint Using the affected joint in a repetitive action that puts stress on the joint (baseball players, ballet dancers, and construction workers are all at risk) Arthritis can occur in men and women of all ages. About 37 million people in America have arthritis of some kind, which is almost 1 out of every 7 people. Other types or cause of arthritis include: Adult Still's disease Ankylosing spondylitis Fungal infections such as blastomycosis Gonococcal arthritis Gout Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (in children) Other bacterial infections ( nongonococcal bacterial arthritis ) Psoriatic arthritis Reactive arthritis ( Reiter syndrome ) Rheumatoid arthritis (in adults) Scleroderma Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) Tertiary Lyme disease Tuberculous arthritis Viral arthritis Symptoms: If you have arthritis, you may experience: Joint pain Joint swelling Reduced ability to move the joint Redness of the skin around a joint Stiffness, especially in the morning Warmth around a joint Signs and tests: First, your doctor will take a detailed medical history to see if arthritis or another musculoskeletal problem is the likely cause of your symptoms. Next, a thorough physical examination may show that fluid is collecting in the joint. (This is called an "effusion.") The joint may be tender when it is gently pressed, and may be warm and red (especially in infectious arthritis and autoimmune arthritis). It may be painful or difficult to rotate the joints in some directions. This is known as "limited range-of-motion." In some autoimmune forms of arthritis, the joints may become deformed if the disease is not treated. Such joint deformities are the hallmarks of severe, untreated rheumatoid arthritis. Tests vary depending on the suspected cause. They often include blood tests and joint x-rays . To check for infection and other causes of arthritis (like gout caused by crystals), joint fluid is removed from the joint with a needle and examined under a microscope. See the specific types of arthritis for further information. Treatment: Treatment of arthritis depends on the cause, which joints are affected, the severity, and how the condition affects your daily activities. Your age and occupation will also be taken into consideration when your doctor works with you to create a treatment plan. If possible, treatment will focus on eliminating the cause of the arthritis. However, the cause is NOT necessarily curable, as with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Treatment, therefore, aims at reducing your pain and discomfort and preventing further disability. It is possible to greatly improve your symptoms from osteoarthritis and other long-term types of arthritis without medications. In fact, making lifestyle changes without medications is preferable for osteoarthritis and other forms of joint inflammation. If needed, medications should be used in addition to lifestyle changes. Exercise for arthritis is necessary to maintain healthy joints, relieve stiffness, reduce pain and fatigue, and improve muscle and bone strength. Your exercise program should be tailored to you as an individual. Work with a physical therapist to design an individualized program, which should include: Low-impact aerobic activity (also called endurance exercise) Range of motion exercises for flexibility Strength training for muscle tone A physical therapist can apply heat and cold treatments as needed and fit you for splints or orthotic (straightening) devices to support and align joints. This may be particularly necessary for rheumatoid arthritis. Your physical therapist may also consider water therapy, ice massage, or transcutaneous nerve stimulation (TENS). Rest is just as important as exercise. Sleeping 8 to 10 hours per night and taking naps during the day can help you recover from a flare-up more quickly and may even help prevent exacerbations. You should also: Avoid holding one position for too long. Avoid positions or movements that place extra stress on your affected joints. Modify your home to make activities easier. For example, have grab bars in the shower, the tub, and near the toilet. Reduce stress, which can aggravate your symptoms. Try meditation or guided imagery. And talk to your physical therapist about yoga or tai chi. Other measures to try include: Apply capsaicin cream (derived from hot chili peppers) to the skin over your painful joints. You may feel improvement after applying the cream for 3-7 days. Eat a diet rich in vitamins and minerals, especially antioxidants like vitamin E. These are found in fruits and vegetables. Get selenium from Brewer's yeast, wheat germ, garlic, whole grains, sunflower seeds, and Brazil nuts. Get omega-3 fatty acids from cold water fish (like salmon, mackerel, and herring), flaxseed, rapeseed (canola) oil, soybeans, soybean oil, pumpkin seeds, and walnuts. Taking glucosamine and chondroitin -- these form the building blocks of cartilage, the substance that lines joints. These supplements are available at health food stores or supermarkets. While some studies show such supplements may reduce osteoarthritis symptoms, others show no benefit. However, since these products are regarded as safe, they are reasonable to try and many patients find their symptoms improve. Lose weight, if you are overweight. Weight loss can greatly improve joint pain in the legs and feet. MEDICATIONS Your doctor will choose from a variety of medications as needed. Generally, the first drugs to try are available without a prescription. These include: Acetaminophen (Tylenol) -- recommended by the American College of Rheumatology and the American Geriatrics Society as first-line treatment for osteoarthritis. Take up to 4 grams a day (two arthritis-strength Tylenol every 8 hours). This can provide significant relief of arthritis pain without many of the side effects of prescription drugs. DO NOT exceed the recommended doses of acetaminophen or take the drug in combination with large amounts of alcohol. These actions may damage your liver. Aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen -- these nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are often effective in combating arthritis pain. However, they have many potential risks, especially if used for a long time. They should not be taken in any amount without consulting your doctor. Potential side effects include heart attack, stroke, stomach ulcers, bleeding from the digestive tract, and kidney damage. In 2005, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asked makers of NSAIDs to include a warning label on their product that alerts users of an increased risk for heart attack, stroke, and gastrointestinal bleeding. If you have kidney or liver disease, or a history of gastrointestinal bleeding, you should not take these medicines unless your doctor specifically recommends them. Prescription medicines include: Biologics -- these are the most recent breakthrough for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Such medications, including etanercept (Enbrel), infliximab (Remicade) and adalimumab (Humira), are administered by injection and can dramatically improve your quality of life. Newer biologics include abatacept (Orencia), rituximab (Rituxan), golimumab (Simponi), certolizumab (Cimzia), and tocilizumab (Actemra). Corticosteroids ("steroids") -- these are medications that suppress the immune system and symptoms of inflammation. They are often injected into painful osteoarthritic joints. Steroids are used to treat autoimmune forms of arthritis but should be avoided in infectious arthritis. Steroids have multiple side effects, including upset stomach and gastrointestinal bleeding, high blood pressure, thinning of bones, cataracts, and increased infections. The risks are most pronounced when steroids are taken for long periods of time or at high doses. Close supervision by a physician is essential. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors -- These drugs block an inflammation-promoting enzyme called COX-2. This class of drugs was initially believed to work as well as traditional NSAIDs, but with fewer stomach problems. However, numerous reports of heart attacks and stroke have prompted the FDA to re-evaluate the risks and benefits of the COX-2s. Celecoxib (Celebrex) is still available, but labeled with strong warnings and a recommendation that it be prescribed at the lowest possible dose for the shortest duration possible. Talk to your doctor about whether COX-2s are right for you. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs -- these have been used traditionally to treat rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune causes of arthritis. These drugs include gold salts, penicillamine, sulfasalazine, and hydroxychloroquine. More recently, methotrexate has been shown to slow the progression of rheumatoid arthritis and improve your quality of life. Methotrexate itself can be highly toxic and requires frequent blood tests for patients on the medication. Immunosuppressants -- these drugs, like azathioprine or cyclophosphamide, are used for serious cases of rheumatoid arthritis when other medications have failed. It is very important to take your medications as directed by your doctor. If you are having difficulty doing so (for example, due to intolerable side effects), you should talk to your doctor. SURGERY AND OTHER APPROACHES In some cases, surgery to rebuild the joint (arthroplasty) or to replace the joint (such as a total knee joint replacement ) may help maintain a more normal lifestyle. The decision to perform joint replacement surgery is normally made when other alternatives, such as lifestyle changes and medications, are no longer effective. Normal joints contain a lubricant called synovial fluid. In joints with arthritis, this fluid is not produced in adequate amounts. In some cases, a doctor may inject the arthritic joint with a manmade version of joint fluid. The synthetic fluid may postpone the need for surgery at least temporarily and improve the quality of life for persons with arthritis. Support Groups: Expectations (prognosis): A few arthritis-related disorders can be completely cured with treatment. Most are chronic (long-term) conditions, however, and the goal of treatment is to control the pain and minimize joint damage. Chronic arthritis frequently goes in and out of remission. Complications: Chronic pain Lifestyle restrictions or disability Calling your health care provider: Call your doctor if: Your joint pain persists beyond 3 days. You have severe unexplained joint pain. The affected joint is significantly swollen. You have a hard time moving the joint. Your skin around the joint is red or hot to the touch. You have a fever or have lost weight unintentionally. Prevention: If arthritis is diagnosed and treated early, you can prevent joint damage. Find out if you have a family history of arthritis and share this information with your doctor, even if you have no joint symptoms. Osteoarthritis may be more likely to develop if you abuse your joints (injure them many times or over-use them while injured). Take care not to overwork a damaged or sore joint. Similarly, avoid excessive repetitive motions. Excess weight also increases the risk for developing osteoarthritis in the knees and possibly in the hips. See the article on body mass index to learn whether your weight is healthy. References: D'Cruz DP, Khamashta MA, Hughes GR. Systemic lupus erythematosus. Lancet . 2007;369(9561):587-96. Glass GG. Osteoarthritis. Dis Mon . 2006;52:343-362. Gregory PJ, Sperry M, Wilson AF. Dietary supplements for osteoarthritis. Am Fam Physician . 2008;77:177-184. Smolen JS, Aletaha D, Koeller M, Weisman MH, Emery P. New therapies for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Lancet . 2007;270(9602):1861-74. Review Date: 2/5/2010 Reviewed By: Mark James Borigini, MD, Rheumatologist in the Washington, DC Metro area. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., Inc.  Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Get Information on Health Conditions List of Health Conditions? Advanced Search Centura Health In The News CENTURA HEALTH PHYSICIAN GROUP NAMES PRESIDENT & CEO Apr 4, 2012 CENTURA HEALTH NAMED EXCLUSIVE MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDER FOR USA PRO CHALLENGE FOR SECOND CONSECUTIVE YEAR Mar 16, 2012 Avista Doctor To Speak About Shoulder Or Elbow Pain Mar 15, 2012 About Us Green Hospital Newsworthy Mission and Ministry Maps and Directions Health Information I-Triage Ask-A-Nurse Create a Patient Web Page Assess Your Health Advance Directives Clinical Specialties Emergency Services New Life Center Spine Care Program Flight For Life Cardiac Care Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Feed Comments and Suggestions RSS Feed Flickr Galleries YouTube Channel Donate Share | Site Map | Disclaimer | Help | ADA Compliance | FMLA Notice | Privacy Practices 100 Health Park Drive, Louisville, CO 80027 - 303-673-1000 - © 2012 Centura Health Text Only Options Change the current font size: larger | default | smaller Current color mode is Black on White, other available modes: Yellow on Black | Black on Cream Current color mode is Yellow on Black, other available modes: Black on White | Black on Cream Current color mode is Black on Cream, other available modes: Black on Whi