Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo
            Biloba-4 Glutathione
            Molecule Return to: Science Index - Nutrients - Toxins & Conditions Return to: Main Index - Health Information - Editorial - Products Place an Order: Secure Server CFS Nutrition Products: Nutrition
            Programs Organ
            Cleansers Immune
            Stimulants Bottled
            Nutrients Probiotic
            Formulas Nutrition
            Books Water
            Filters Videos Food Supplements: Nutrition Books: click
            here Water Filters: Science
            Index Ginkgo
            Biloba Back Next Title A Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) prevents mitochondrial aging
            by protecting against oxidative stress. Author Sastre J; Millán A; García de la Asunción
            J; Plá R; Juan G; Pallardó; OConnor E; Martin JA; Droy Lefaix MT; Viña J Source Free Radic Biol Med, 1998 Jan, 24:2, 298-304 Abstract The effect of aging on indices of oxidative damage in rat mitochondria
            and the protective effect of the Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 was investigated.
            Mitochondrial DNA from brain and liver of old rats exhibited oxidative damage that is
            significantly higher than that from young rats. Mitochondrial glutathione is also more oxidized
            in old than in young rats. Peroxide formation in mitochondria from old animals was higher
            than in those from young ones. According to morphological parameters (size and complexity),
            there are two populations of mitochondria. One is composed of large, highly
            complex mitochondria, and the other population is smaller and less complex. Brain and liver
            from old animals had a higher proportion of the large, highly complex mitochondria than
            seen in organs from young animals. Treatment with the Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761
            partially prevented these morphological changes as well as the indices of oxidative damage
            observed in brain and liver mitochondria from old animals. Title Effects of flavonoids of Ginkgo biloba on proliferation of human
            skin fibroblast. Author Kim SJ; Lim MH; Chun IK; Won YH Source Skin Pharmacol, 1997, 10:4, 200-5 Abstract Ginkgo biloba studies have focused on the anti-inflammatory effects
            of the major components, ginkgolide and bilobalide, whereas little is known
            about their effect on fibroblasts. This study demonstrated the enhancing effects of
            Ginkgo L. extracts, especially the flavonoid fractions: quercetin, kaempferol, sciadopitysin,
            ginkgetin, isoginkgetin, on the proliferation of normal human skin fibroblast in vitro measured
            by MTT (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazole-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide)
            assay and direct hemocytometer cell count. Furthermore, increased production of
            collagen and extracellular fibronectin were documented by radioisotope (2,3-3H-proline)
            incorporated collagen assay, procollagen type I C-peptide assay and by immunoturbidimetric
            assay. These proliferative effects suggest another useful pharmacologic application of Ginkgo
            L. extracts in addition to their well-known anti-inflammatory effect. Title Chemistry and biology of alkylphenols from Ginkgo biloba L. Author Jaggy H; Koch E Source Pharmazie, 1997 Oct, 52:10, 735-8 Abstract Ginkgolic acid and related alkylphenols constitute major components
            of the lipid fraction of the fruit pods of Ginkgo biloba L. In addition, this class of
            substances is present in Ginkgo leaves which are widely used to prepare extracts for the treatment
            of peripheral or cerebral circulatory disorders, as well as vascular and Alzheimer type
            dementia. The present paper reviews the literature on chemical and biological aspects of
            alkylphenols from Ginkgo with special reference to their allergic and other undesired properties.
            As these compounds are present in crude leaf extracts, their completest possible removal
            has therefore to be guaranteed for therapeutically used extracts by the production
            process. Technically this does not imply any problem and most preparations available on the
            market fulfil the requirements of the Monograph of the Commission E of the former Federal German
            Health Author ity (Bundesgesundheitsamt, BGA) requesting a maximal concentration
            of 5 ppm ginkgolic acids. Title Ginkgo biloba attenuates oxidative stress in macrophages and
            endothelial cells. Author Rong Y; Geng Z; Lau BH Source Free Radic Biol Med, 1996, 20:1, 121-7 Abstract The action of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) as an antioxidant was
            studied using various models of oxidative stress in macrophages and vascular endothelial
            cells. GBE was incubated with murine macrophages (J774) at 37 degrees C and
            5% CO2 for 1 h; oxidative burst was triggered by zymosan. The intensity of fluorescence
            was measured directly in 96-well plates using a computerized microplate fluorometer at
            485 nm excitation and 530 nm emission. GBE exhibited both time- and concentration-dependent
            suppression of oxidative burst. Confluent monolayers of bovine pulmonary artery
            endothelial cells (PAEC) were preincubated with different concentrations of GBE for 16
            h, washed, and then exposed to an organic oxidant tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBHP) for 2 h.
            Lipid peroxidation products of PAEC were determined by measuring thiobarbituric acid-reactive
            substances (TBARS). Cell injury was assessed by measuring the release of intracellular
            lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and cell viability was determined by the methylthiazol
            tetrazolium (MTT) assay. tBHP increased production of TBARS in PAEC. Preincubation with
            GBE inhibited the increase of TBARS induced by tBHP. GBE protected biomembranes
            from oxidative injury by decreasing intracellular LDH leakage from PAEC. MTT assay
            showed that GBE minimized loss of cell viability induced by oxidative injury.
            The extensive antioxidant effect of GBE may be valuable to the prevention and treatment of various
            disorders related to free radical-induced pathology. Title Ginkgo biloba extract for the treatment of tinnitus. Author Holgers KM; Axelsson A; Pringle I Source Audiology, 1994 Mar, 33:2, 85-92 Abstract Previous studies have shown contradictory results of Ginkgo biloba
            extract (GBE) treatment of tinnitus. The present study was divided into two
            parts: first an open part, without placebo control (n = 80), followed by a double-blind
            placebo-controlled study (n = 20). The patients included in the open study were patients who
            had been referred to the Department of Audiology, Sahlgren's Hospital, Göteborg,
            Sweden, due to persistent severe tinnitus. Patients reporting a positive effect on tinnitus in
            the open study were included in the double-blind placebo-controlled study (20 out of 21 patients
            participated). 7 patients preferred GBE to placebo, 7 placebo to GBE and 6 patients had
            no preference. Statistical group analysis gives no support to the hypothesis that GBE has
            any effect on tinnitus, although it is possible that GBE has an effect on some patients
            due to several reasons, e.g. the diverse etiology of tinnitus. Since there is no objective
            method to measure the symptom, the search for an effective drug can only be made on an individual
            basis. Title Effects of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) on learning and possible
            actions on aging. Author Cohen Salmon C; Venault P; Martin B; Raffalli Sébille
            MJ; Barkats M; Clostre F; Pardon MC; Christen Y; Chapouthier G Source J Physiol Paris, 1997 Dec, 91:6, 291-300 Abstract A study of the effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) has
            shown enhancing effects on training in adult and aged Swiss mice. An analysis of inbred
            mice has confirmed this sensitivity to EGb 761, but depending on the strains, with different
            effects at different ages. The most interesting results are related to improvements in performances
            observed with aged mice of the DBA/2J strain. The results obtained with inbred
            strains in the study of the mossy fibers of the hippocampus make it possible to suggest a
            link between the improvements in training and the histological structure of the
            hippocampus. This possibility, which can be confirmed by further studies, is presented here. Title Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761): inhibitory effect on nitric
            oxide production in the macrophage cell line RAW 264.7. Author Kobuchi H; Droy Lefaix MT; Christen Y; Packer L Source Biochem Pharmacol, 1997 Mar, 53:6, 897-903 Abstract The present study was conducted to evaluate the effect of Ginkgo
            biloba extract (EGb 761) on the synthesis of nitric oxide (NO) induced by lipopolysaccharide
            (LPS) plus interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in the mouse macrophage cell line
            RAW 264.7. EGb 761 inhibited nitrite and nitrate production, taken as an index for
            NO, in a concentration-dependent fashion. The IC50 for inhibition of nitrite
            production by activated macrophages was about 100 micrograms/mL EGb 761. The inducible
            NO synthase (iNOS) enzyme activity of cytosolic preparations from activated RAW
            264.7 cells was inhibited by treatment with EGb 761. In addition, reverse transcription-polymerase
            chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that the expression of iNOS mRNA in
            activated macrophages was suppressed by high concentrations of EGb 761. However, NF-kappa
            B DNA binding activity induced by activation with LPS/IFN-gamma was not inhibited
            by EGb 761. These findings indicate that not only does EGb 761 directly act as
            an NO scavenger but also that it inhibits NO production in LPS/IFN-gamma-activated macrophages
            by concomitant inhibition of induction of iNOS mRNA and the enzyme activity
            of iNOS. Thus, EGb 761 may act as a potent inhibitor of NO production under tissue-damaging
            inflammatory conditions. Title The bioavailability of ginkgolides in Ginkgo biloba extracts. Author Li CL; Wong YY Source Planta Med, 1997 Dec, 63:6, 563-5 Abstract A new Ginkgo biloba leaf extract, BioGinkgo 27/7, was prepared
            using a method that enriches ginkgolide B. The bioavailability of ginkgolides in
            these extracts was assessed in rabbits in comparison with a commercially available standardized
            24/6 extract. It was found that, after a single dose, a higher concentration of ginkgolides
            was maintained for a longer period of time with these extracts than was found with commercial
            extract prepared by existing methods. Title Inhibition of human sperm motility by specific herbs used in
            alternative medicine. Author Ondrizek RR; Chan PJ; Patton WC; King A Source J Assist Reprod Genet, 1999 Feb, 16:2, 87-91 Abstract PURPOSE: Our purpose was to analyze sperm motility parameters
            in the presence of herbs. METHODS: Washed sperm were incubated in either saw-palmetto
            (Serenoa repens, Permixon Sabal serrulatum), echinacea purpura, ginkgo biloba,
            St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum), or control medium. Parameters were measured on a
            Hamilton-Thorn analyzer after 1, 4, 24, and 48 hr at 37 degrees C. RESULTS: Sperm motility
            was inhibited at the high concentration (0.6 mg/mL) of St. John's wort. Curvilinear
            velocities and beat cross frequencies also decreased, but not hyperactivation. High-concentration
            saw-palmetto, echinacea, or gikgo inhibited motility at 24 and 48 hr. CONCLUSIONS:
            A potent inhibition of sperm motility was seen in St. John's wort unrelated to changes
            in pH. Furthermore, sperm viability was compromised in St. John's wort, suggesting
            a spermicidal effect. Metabolic changes were observed in saw-palmetto-treated sperm.
            High-concentration echinacea purpura interfered with sperm enzymes. Ginkgo did not
            have 