
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 20:59:02 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Rheumatoid Arthritis: Herbs For Pain Rheumatoid Arthritis Herbs For Pain Using Herbs For: Arthritis Herbal Remedies for Arthritis Apple * Ashwagandha root * Balm of Gilead buds * Barberry root * Bay Laurel * Benzoin Resin * Black Cohosh root * Black Pepper * Black Seed oil * Bladderwrack * Blue Cohosh Root * Bogbean * Borage Seed Oil * Boswellia (Frankincense) * Bupleurum * Cajeput Oil * Calamus root * Camphor oil * Castor Oil * Cat's Claw * Cayenne Pepper * Celery * Centaury * Chaparral * Devil's Claw * Eucalyptus * Evening Primrose Oil * Fennel * Feverfew * Flaxseed * Ginger Root * Hops * Horseradish root * Juniper Berries * Lavender * Lovage * Meadowsweet * Mustard * Oregano * Palmarosa oil * Parsley * Pine * Pineapple * Poke Root * Rehmannia root * Rosemary * Rue * Sarsaparilla * Soapwort * Solomon's Seal * Spikenard * St. John's Wort * Stinging Nettle * Tamanu Oil * Thuja oil * Turmeric * Vervain * White Willow * Wild Yam Root * Wintergreen Oil * Wormwood * Yarrow * Yerba Mate * Yucca Root * Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory illness that affects about one percent of the world's population, and in my family it has been passed down from mother to daughter for at least 5 generations. It seems I have always lived with the pain of arthritis. I used to just accept the fact that I was helpless to do anything about it. Not anymore. Since I have begun to explore the possibilities of herbal medicine my quality of life has improved and my daily arthritic pain level has decreased markedly. I want to share them with you here, in the hopes that they can benefit someone else who may be fighting the same battle. Salicylate, Natures Aspirin: Salicin, a precursor chemical to salicylate,
   the compound found in aspirin, deters the body's production of certain prostaglandins
   that are linked to inflammation, pain, and fever as well as pain associated with osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, gout , and generalized muscle pain. Salicylate deters the body's production of certain prostaglandins that are linked to inflammation, pain, and fever among other things. 53 Birch can be taken in teas, and  infused in oil for pain relief rubs and oils. The leaves have a peculiar, aromatic, agreeable odor and a bitter taste, and birch teas are employed to relieve excess water and swelling in gout, rheumatism and dropsy(edema). 10 Herbs that have this important
   pain relieving compound are Birch , white willow, , Balsam Poplar, meadowsweet, ,
  and black haw. All these herbs have a long history
of use as pain relievers in traditional herbal medicine. 1 Gugguls: Francincense and Myrrh Boswellia, Commiphora wightii gum resin extract has anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. Francincense and Myrrh are two of the Ayurvedic gum resins which are referred to collectively as guggals. 36 Formulas containing boswellic acid combined with glucosamine are often used to relieve the joint pain of arthritis. Herbs for arthritis pain Cayenne capsules, and/or cayenne oil are powerful arthritis pain relievers There is much written in the popular literature, on the net and in books that suggests that plants of the nightshade family, potatoes, tomatoes, peppers and eggplant can cause arthritis flareups. The culprit seems to be a phytochemical solamine that acts as a defense mechanism in plants, and is toxic in very high doses. Solamine is what is responsible for turning potatoes green when exposed to sunlight. Which is why it is unwise to eat green-tinted potatoes.

While study evidence is scant for the avoiding nightshade plants, personal testimonies and folklore are compelling enough to make me want to consume these plants in smaller quantities, especially potatoes. White potatoes are really just big lumps of starch waiting to turn into sugar, and my body does not need that kind of starch calories anyway. However I will not give up the occasional peppers in stirfrys, or tomatoes when in season for my salads. The capsicum contained in peppers in such a powerful anti-inflammatory that is is counter intuitive to me to eliminate them from my diet. There is more scientific links between the consumption of red meat and arthritis, (along with heart disease etc.). I have been eating a semi-vegatarian diet for a week now,(still eat cheese, eggs and a little milk) and feel better for it. I am also cutting way, way down on table sugar, and do not consume "junk", processed foods that have a lot of trans fats , chemicals, preservatives and such in them. This approach covers more bases for me - weight loss, general health, and less arthritis pain. The link between diet and arthritis is a complex one. Rheumatoid arthritis is an immune system disorder, and what makes my immune system go haywire may not be the same thing as what triggers yours. The key here is awareness, awareness of what you are putting in your body and what your body is telling you about how it affects you. Using Aromatherapy Aromatherapy for Arthritis Oil of benzoin is warming and soporific - very good as a fixative element in blends for cold conditions of the joints such as gout and rheumatoid arthritis. 23 Herbs Used for Arthritis Ashwagandha For: Arthritis Animal studies have found that naturally occurring steroids in ashwaganda are more potent than treatment with the synthetic steroid hydrocortisone for controlling inflammation. 52 Astragalus For: Immune system in Lupus Astragalus stimulates beneficial components of the immune system in patients with lupus—the natural killer (NK) cells—without stimulating the detrimental components involved in rheumatoid arthritis—the B cells. 52 Balm of Gilead For: Arthritis pain oil The dried, unopened buds of the poplar tree are used in ointments and skin treatments to reduce pain and inflammation, and to ease rheumatic pain. Salicin, a major constituent of this plant, is a painkiller, while bisabolol in the oil reduces inflammation and is antimicrobial. 48 Black Cumin Seed Oil For: Rheumatoid Arthritis, High Blood Pressure Much of the biological activity of the seeds has been shown to be due to thymoquinone, the major component of the essential oil, but which is also present in the fixed oil. In animal studies the oil has shown significant activity against liver disease, high blood pressure, and rheumatoid arthritits. The seeds/oil have antiinflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic, antimicrobial and antineoplastic activity. Ali BH, Blunden G.. Pharmacological and toxicological properties of Nigella sativa. (2003-04-17), www.umm.edu Black Pepper For: Rheumatoid arthritis Black pepper oil is hot, warming, very yang. Externally it is rubefacient and gently analgesic, and stimulant, successful in cases of rheumatoid arthritis 23 Bladderwrack For: Rheumatism Sea-pod liniment, is the expressed juice and decoction of fresh seaweed (bladderwrack) as dispensed by sea-side chemists for rheumatism. The main herbal use of bladderwrack is to remineralize the body. External compresses and plasters are used to reduce the inflammation and pain of arthritis 10 Blue Cohosh For: Arthritis anti-inflammatory The Iroquois used it to treat arthritis-  research also suggests the plant possesses some anti-inflammatory, and anti-rheumatic properties. 27 Blue cohosh For: Rheumatism Blue cohosh eases the cramping pain of dysmenorrhoea. It has also been used to treat arthritis and ease stomach cramps. 48 Bogbean For: Arthritis, skin disease An extract is made from the leaves, which possesses strong tonic properties, and which renders great service in rheumatism, scurvy, and skin diseases. Tonic, cathartic, deobstruent and febrifuge. An extract is made from the leaves, which possesses strong tonic properties, and which renders great service in rheumatism, scurvy, and skin diseases. An infusion of 1 OZ. of the dried leaves to 1 pint of boiling water is taken in wineglassful doses, frequently repeated. It has also been recommended as an external application for dissolving glandular swellings. Finely powdered Buckbean leaves have been employed as a remedy for ague, being said to effect a cure when other means fail. In large doses, the powder is also purgative. It is used also as a herb tobacco. 10 Borage For: Arthritis,anti-inflammatory Borage seed oil is used as an anti-inflammatory for chronic conditions, notably arthritis. Borage seeds are a good source of (GLA), the omega-6 fatty acid that the body uses to make an inflammation fighting, auto-immune-prostaglandins. 27 Boswellia serrata For: Rheumatoid arthritis Boswellia extracts have the distinct advantage over NSAIDS in that they are are potent anti-inflammatory pain relievers without any appreciable side effects.  Boswellic acids, active components in boswellia, deactivate the hormonal triggers for inflammation and pain. 52 Bupleurum For: Arthritis, allergies, eye care This herb seems to exert a tonic effect on the heart and the lungs, making it useful for improving respiration and circulation. Bupleurum stops the effects of allergies by blocking serotonin (also known as 5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT). It has also been reported to prevent bleeding from tiny capillaries within the eyes that can lead to macular degeneration. Bupleurum deactivates herpes simplex and measles viruses, and relieves pain of peptic ulcers. Bupleurum also increases the effectiveness of glucocorticoid drugs such as prednisone (Deltasone), used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 52 Burdock For: Gout and Rheumatism Burdock roots and leaves can also be used to treat rheumatism and gout because they encourage the elimination of uric acid via the kidneys. 48 Cats Claw For: Arthritis, anti-inflammatory The traditional application of cat's claw has been to treat rheumatoid arthritis.Cat's claw contains quinovic acid glycodides that  cool inflammation throughout the body. . 27 Cayenne For: Rheumatoid arthritis Clinical studies have demonstrated its value in alleviating pain and discomfort from rheumatoid arthritis. Salicylates (like those in aspirin) add to its pain-preventing power. 27 Centaury For: Rheumatism Research confirms the plant's potential for treating rheumatism and gout, for the alkaloid gentianine has exhibited strongly anti-inflammatory properties. 48 Chickory For: Gout and Rheumatism Chicory acts very much like dandelion as a diuretic that helps to eliminate harmful buildups of uric acid which makes it valuable  treating rheumatism and gout. Whole plant extracts are anti-inflammatory as well. 48 Chinese goldthread, barbe For: Arthritis The berberine contained in barberry is a selective COX-2 inhibitor, reducing the inflammation of arthritis. 30 Devils claw For: Joint pain, osteoarthritis,  rheumatoid arthritis Devil's claw offers slow but sure relief of joint pain caused by both osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, the tubers contain a group of chemicals called iridoids that  have anti-inflammatory activity. 36 Elder flowers For: Arthritis Elderflowers have a mild laxative action and in Europe have a reputation for treating rheumatism and gout. 48 Eucalyptus oil For: Aching joints and rheumatism Eucalyptus oil is an excellent topical remedy for aching joints and rheumatism. Dilute with a carrier oil and use in massage blends. 33 Evening Primrose Oil For: Rheumatoid arthritis, GLA The seed oil of evening primrose may significantly help arthritis pain, and reduce inflammation especially in cases of rheumatoid arthritis, due to it's GLA content 36 Evening Primrose oil For: Eczema, pms, GLA Research shows that GLA content of Evening Primrose is helpful against arthritis, eczema and premenstrual tension, among other conditions. 27 Fennel oil For: Muscle pain Oil of fennel relieves muscular or rheumatic pains and is especially effective in massage blends. Feverfew For: Arthritis Inflammation Feverfew calms inflammation by inhibiting the COX-2 enzyme process. 30 Feverfew For: Migraine Sesquiterpene lactones in feverfew may inhibit prostaglandins and histamine released during the inflammatory process, so preventing spasms of blood vessels in the head that trigger migraine attacks..also important in the inflammation and pain of arthritis, promoting restful sleep, improving digestion, and relieving asthma attacks. Feverfew users involved in clinical studies reported that feverfew helped their depression. 48 Feverfew For: Lupus Lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. Laboratory studies have shown that feverfew stops white blood cells from absorbing the amino acid thymidine. This in turn reduces the rate at which they can produce inflammatory chemicals known as leukotrienes. This alteration of the cellular chemistry also reduces the production of fatty acid products known as eicosanoids, which are essential to the production of inflammatory chemicals. While clinical studies report mixed results, many people find that taking feverfew for two to three months reduces the severity and frequency of arthritic pain. The advantage of feverfew over many other forms of treatment is that it does not cause stomach upset, but acts in a manner like that of a class of pain relievers known as cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors such as celecoxib (Celebrex) 52 Flaxseed oil For: Arthritis inflammation The linoleic acid found in flaxseed oil may be beneficial for arthritis because it alters how the body breaks down prostaglandins, chemicals involved in inflammation. 36 Ginger For: Arthritis Ginger combines well with turmeric, which is also anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving, and inhibits the COX-2 enzyme 36 Holy Basil For: Anti-inflammatory- Arthritis and Cancer preventive Ocimum sanctum, holy basil, contains the phytonutrient ursolic acid which is specifically recognized for its COX-2 inhibitory effects. A Dartmouth Medical School study confirmed that derivatives of oleanolic acid and ursolic acid possessed potential anti-inflammatory and cancer-preventing activity related to their inhibition of COX-2. We believe this herb must be included in everyone's program of preventive medicine. 30 Hops For: Arthritic joints, low bone density A hops bitter, humulone demonstrates significant COX-2 inhibiting effects and also slows the body's re-absorption of bone, significant for people with low bone density and damaged arthritic joints. 30 Horse Chestnut For: Vein Health, Fevers, rheumatism and neuralgia The bark has tonic, narcotic and febrifuge properties and is used in intermittent fevers, given in an infusion of 1 OZ. to the pint, in tablespoonful doses, three or four times daily. As an external application to ulcers, this infusion has also been used with success.

The fruits have been employed in the treatment of rheumatism and neuralgia, and also in rectal complaints and for haemorrhoids. 11 Juniper Berry For: Arthritis and gout The diuretic and depurative actions of juniper make it an excellent remedy for arthritis and gout. It may be used externally, suitably diluted in a fatty oil, as a mild analgesic rubefacient to relieve rheumatic pain. 23 Lavender For: Arthritis, circulation A fomentation of lavender as external application  relieves stiffness of the joints. For arthritic aches and pains, apply compresses, or massage with a lavender oil blend. Oil of lavender is sometimes effective in bringing back circulation to feet that have lost feeling. 15 Mustard seeds For: Coughs Black mustard seeds make an excellent stimulating poultice (mixed with a soothing substance such as slippery elm powder) for stubborn coughs and arthritis joints. Mustard foot baths are good for poor circulation, chilblains, and upper respiratory mucus. 48 Oregano For: COX-2 Oregano has  31 know anti-inflammatories, 28 antioxidants and 4 known potent COX-2 inhibitors,  including rosemarinic acid. 30 Parsley For: Arthritis, Bone Health Parsley has a longstanding folklore reputation for the treatment of  rheumatism, arthritis and sciatica. It's high concentration of boron and fluoride might help against bone thinning and osteoporosis. 27 Pine For: Bladder, Kidney A valuable remedy in bladder, kidney, and rheumatic affections and diseases of the mucous membrane and respiratory complaints; externally in the form of liniment plasters and inhalants. 11 Pine essential oil For: Arthritis, rheumatism and gout Compounds in pine are similar to cortisone. Therapeutically, pine essential oil is very effective in relieving the pain caused by conditions such as arthritis, rheumatism and gout and promotes circulation. Pinnapple (bromelain) For: Anti-inflammatory Research demonstrates bromelain helps the body eliminate substances related to arthritis and triggers the release of a prostaglandin that tamps down inflammation. 27 Rehmannia For: Arthritis Pain Root extract used against arthritis pain and asthma. Encourages fluid excretion, relaxes blood vessels and stimulates the adrenal glands. 27 Sassafras root For:  chronic rheumatism, syphilis, and skin diseases Aromatic, stimulant, diaphoretic, alterative. It is rarely given alone, but is often combined with guaiacum or sarsaparilla in chronic rheumatism, syphilis, and skin diseases. 10 Soapwort For: Gout and Rheumatism Soapworts use for gout and rheumatism is probably effective because of the anti-inflammatory property of its saponins 48 St. John's wort oil For: Rheumatism and gout The original uses of this versatile plant, before it became popular as a natural anti-depressant however, were treating rheumatism and gout. Herbal oils infused with fresh St. John's wort are anti-inflammatory and analgesic. Stinging nettle For:  osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, tendinitis and bursitis The anti-inflammatory substances join with the rich concentration of the minerals boron and silicon to help ease the pain of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, tendinitis and bursitis. The leaves can be used raw and applied directly to the rheumatic pain area, they increase circulation and draw out pain. In a scientific study of patients with acute arthritis, stewed stinging nettle leaves enhanced the anti-inflammatory effect of diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication (NSAID) Tamanu oil For: Gout, arthritis Fiji natives use Tamanu oil for joint pains, and arthritis. It’s also effective on gout. Tamanu oil For: Sciatica, shingles, neuralgia, rheumatism Traditionally oil of tamanu has enjoyed topical use in Fiji for relieving the pain of sciatica, shingles, neuralgia, rheumatism and leprous neuritis, for which it is effective. Thuja For: Rheumatism, coughs Aromatic, astringent, diuretic.. The decoction has been used in intermittent fevers, rheumatism, dropsy, coughs, scurvy, and as an emmenagogue. The leaves, made into an ointment with fat, are a helpful local application in rheumatism.. 11 Turmeric For: Arthritis, COX-2 inhibitor The curcumin and curcuminoids in turmeric are first-rate arthritis-alleviating anti-inflammatories and fight inflammation much like COX-2 inhibitors. 27 Turmeric For: Arthritis pain It's active ingredient, curmumin, inhibits the production of prostaglandins. Turmeric can be taken in food, or applied topically to the joint as a poultice to relieve pain 36 Vervain For: Joint pain, antirheumatic Traditional antirheumatic used to relive joint pain. Protective of the liver, calming and lifts depression that can occur with chronic illness like arthritis. White willow bark For: Chronic joint pain Willow bark is the original source of aspirin and many other medications for arthritis and rheumatism.Unlike aspirin, the salicylates in willow bark do not increase the risk of bleeding making willow bark useful for people who have chronic joint pain but cannot take NSAIDs or COX-2 inhibitors. Wild lettuce For: Induce sleep Wild lettuce teas and tinctures are used to induce sleep and  is included in some herbal mixtures used to treat arthritic pain. . Learn wild lettuce. (), Moutain Rose Herbs Wild yam For: Rheumatoid arthritis Wild yam is anti-inflammatory ( because of its steroidal saponins) and herbalists prescribe it for the inflammatory stage of rheumatoid arthritis. 48 Wormwood, Rue For: Arthritis Combined with rue, wormwood is a powerful antirheumatic treatment. 15 Yarrow For: Rheumatism Yarrow also has anti-inflammatory properties, it's constituents cyanidin and azulene are anti-inflammatory, as is salicylic acid. This may account for the folk use of yarrow in treating rheumatism. 48 Yerba mate For: Arthitis, gout Mate has a folklore reputation for treating arthritis, gout and other inflammatory conditions and contains many healthy antioxidants. Yucca For: Rheumatoid and osteoarthritis Used to treat both rheumatoid and osteoarthritis The steroidal saponins in yucca work with the natural immune functions of the body, and assist the body in using and producing its steroid related hormones. Herbs for libido Diabetes Herbs Sexual  Health Coconut Oil Acai berry smoothie Herbal Remedies For Arthritis Weight Loss Horny Goat Weed tea Bitter Melon Herbal Teas Aloe for Wrinkles Alopecia Alcoholism Lobelia for smoking Turmeric for blood sugar Remedies For: Comfrey Emotions Depression Hair Care Cholesterol Milk Thistle Passionflower Dr. Duke's
Phytochemical and Ethnobotanical Databases Medicinal Herb Chart Herbs Alphabetical by Common Name A_ B_ C_ D_ E_ F_ G_ H_ I_ J_ K_ L_ M_ N_ O_ P_ Q_ R_ S_ T_ U_ V_ W_ X_ Y_ Z_ See List Herbs by Botanical Name Annies Remedy Home | Privacy:About: Contact | Medicinal Herbs Uses Chart | Herbal Remedies | Folklore | Books | Herbs by Region | Herbal Preparation | Related Sites: Mountain Rose Herbs | Annies Aromatherapy | Driscolls Natural - Herbs for Men ** Information on the traditional uses and properties of herbs are provided on this site is for educational use only , and is not intended as medical advice. Every attempt has been made for accuracy, but none is guaranteed. Many traditional uses and properties of herbs have not been validated by the FDA.  If you have any serious health concerns, you should always check with your health care practitioner before self-administering herbs. ** Copyright © 2005 - 2008 Annie's Remedy * All rights reserved Common Misspellings:Home Remedys, rhematoid,rhuematoid ,rheumatisim, arthritus, rheumatiod Buy organic bulk herbs, spices, oils and teas Herbal Remedy Finder Select by Condition Select Acne Addiction Air Fresheners Alcoholism Allergies Alopecia Amenorrhea Anxiety Aphrodisiac Aromatherapy Arthritis Asthma Athletes Foot Ayurvedic Bach_Flower Bad Breath Baldness Beauty Bladder Infection (UTI) Bleeding Bronchitis Bruises Burns Cancer Prevention Candida Cellulite Childbirth Children Cholesterol Circulation Colds Colitis Congestion Conjunctivitis Constipation Cough Cramps Culinary Cuts & Wounds Deodorant Depression Detoxification Diabetes Diarrhea Digestion Diuretic Ear Eczema Eyes Facial Care Fatigue Fever Fibromyalgia First_aid Flu Foot Care Fungus/Athletes Foot Garden Gout Green Home Hair Hair Loss Halitosis Headache Cardiovascular Hemorrhoids Herpes Holiday_stress Female Hormones Hypertension IBS Immune Incontinence Infection Insect Bites Insect Repellent Kidney Libido Lice Liver Lupus Massage Oils Memory Men Menopause Menorrhagia Menstruation Nausea Neuralgia Nutrition Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Outdated Pain Relief Parasites Pests Pet Dogs/Cats PMS Pregnancy Prostate Psoriasis Rashes Rheumatoid_arthritis Scabies Sexual Shampoo Shingles Sinus Skin Sleep/Insomnia Stop Smoking Sore Throat Sprains Stress Summer Sunburns Teeth Tonic Ulcer Varicose Veins Warts Weight_loss Diet Women Wrinkles Hot Herbal Remedies Acne Addiction Alopecia Amenorrhea Anxiety Aromatherapy Arthritis Beauty Bladder Infection(UTI) Bronchitis Cancer Prevention Cellulite Cholesterol Colds Congestion Culinary Depression Detoxification Diabetes Digestion Fatigue Fibromyalgia First_aid Gout Green Home Hair Loss Hypertension Immune Libido Liver Memory Menopause Nutrition Pain Relief Psoriasis Rheumatoid_arthritis Stress Weight_loss Pure Organic Aromatherapy Essential Oils Oil Blends Carrier Oils Diffusers Ginger root Cayenne Pepper Fatigue Arthritis Remedy Rheumatism Boswellia Cats Claw Cayenne Juniper Birch Bark Tea Joint Pain Remedy White Willow Turmeric Fi