
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 02:40:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
X-Pingback: http://www.purdetox.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Testimonials & News Alcohol Detox Rehab - Drug Rehabs - Alcoholism Addiction Recovery Call Now For A Free Consultation with a Knowledgeable and Experienced Counselor. Most Insurances Accepted. 1-877-907-3422 PurDetox The most complete, most comfortable treatment program in the world. Medical Detox  Program Alcohol Detox  Program Antidepressant Detox  Program Benzodiazepines (anti-anxiety drugs) Drug Detox  Centers Heroin Detox Medication Detox  For Oxycodone Addiction Meth Detox  Program Methadone Detox Opiate Detox Prescription Detox  Program Quick Detox Street Drug Detox  Program Sauna Detox  Program Help Detox  With Residential Program Marijuana Detox 9/11 Rescue Workers Detox ification Program Meet Our Doctor Videos Our Location Dana Point Photo Tour Testimonials & News Blog FAQ warranty program Terms & Conditions detox warranty program Contact Us Testimonials & News Alcohol & Antidepressants Treatment Testimony – Feb 2012 “I completed the full program at Pur: the Medical Detox , the Sauna Detox and the Recovery Program . When I arrived at Pur, I was an alcoholic and was taking antidepressants. While sitting in the sauna one day, I had an incredible realization; I realized that I drank alcohol, took antidepressants, sleep medications, allergy medications, cold medications & NSAIDS, so that I wouldn’t “FEEL” pain, anger, depression, unhappiness, sadness, loneliness, restlessness, and crankiness. My new realization was: that those same substances did not allow me to “FEEL” happiness, pleasure, joy, fun, exhilaration, spontaneity, love and so much more. “During my Recovery Phase of my program, I have learned many new truths. My favorite of these are the Two Rules For Happy Living: “Rule #1 – Be able to experience ANYTHING! “RULE #2 – Do only to others those things that can be experienced easily! “Incredible Program! Incredible Staff! Incredible Results! Thank You!” – JQ Feb 2012 —————————————————————- Alcohol Detox Testimony – Feb 2012 I found the process to be life altering. Not only was I aware of the toxins being released, the time spent in the sauna allowed me the opportunity to look at what brought me to this place in my life. Wow – very powerful stuff: the realizations that occurred!!” – JC Feb 2012 —————————————————————- Benzo Detox Testimony – June 2011 I came to Pür because I couldn’t find anywhere else that I had any confidence could help me detox off Xanax. I had tried and failed at home, and no help from the “medical community” to get off the medication they so readily supplied. I knew it would be a battle, but I am so pleased with my entire experience here. Even on the worst of days, I felt safe, comfortable and taken care of; which is exactly what I needed. Having reached the other side, I feel I finally have my body, mind & spirit back. I had time to reflect on decisions made, someone always to talk to when I needed an ear and no judgements past. I very much feel I am leaving not only clean mentally & physically from the substance, but with a feeling of freedom and well being. Thank you to all that guided and travelled down this path next to me. - A.O. June 2011 —————————————————————- Benzo Treatment Success – April 2011 I came to Pür Detox from a different treatment facility sick and filled with fear. The previous facility had not known how to properly detox me off of Benzodiazepines and so I was in worse shape from having been at the previous facility. Pür Detox ‘s program, staff, and doctor knew how to properly care for me and get me back on track on my progress off of the Benzodiazepines I had been on for 12 years. They truly showed me care and I felt safe and secure and will miss them and appreciate the life changing help that I received thru the program. – L.H. —————————————————————- The Sauna Detox Program – Jan 2011 The Sauna Program has allowed my body to regain much of its lost strength and weight. On top of that I became much more mentally alert and transformed back into my usual self again. Which feels great! – J.T. —————————————————————- Opiates  Causing Persistent Pain – June 2010 “First, to know how the journey ended, you have to start at the “trailhead”! One can’t summit a mountain without taking that first step onto its foothills. I started using pain meds (Soma, Oxycodone and Vicodin) due to a severe back injury and pain. At the time I arrived I was told I was “taking enough medication to kill 5 men each day. If I [surgeon talking] were to take just one pill of this I would be in a coma right now.” The expression on my face didn’t react to this proclamation so he quickly followed up with, “Doesn’t that concern you? Don’t you want to live!? You have your wife sitting right next to you. Don’t you want to be around for her and your kids?!” His suggestion was that I didn’t need surgery but instead needed to get off of the pain meds and my back pain would go away. THIS caused a change of expression in me. I even laughed. I asked, “How am I supposed to cure this back pain by going off the medication?!?” I’m scheduled for a triple fusion on my spine and you’re telling me all I have to do is get off the pain meds!!! You must be joking!” He proceeded to tell me that a lot of times when your body gets “used to” (addicted to) pain meds, your brain and body can trick you into thinking you have pain when you really don’t. It took me several days after walking out of his office to wrap my mind around this, but after talking to Christopher here at Pür Detox I learned of other instances where this came to be true. I made my reservation and steeled myself for what someone dear to me metaphorically compared this “detox” journey to that of climbing a mountain; which meant to “suck it up and get through it”. And when I was finished, I could look through one of God’s windows, like all those mountain peaks I have stood on and know that free feeling once again. When I got here I was told that due to the immense dosages I was consuming I would have to stay two weeks! I unpacked my “gear” and steeled myself once again for the “climb”! The second day was the worst – like climbing a 1,000 foot ice wall with no ropes or ice axes. But I didn’t complain. One staff member even dubbed me “the silent sufferer”. I was determined to climb this mountain at all costs! After the first 3-4 days, most of my withdrawal symptoms were gone and metaphorically speaking, I was now on the ridge leading to the summit!!! I could see it and feel it! The staff was amazed as I was speeding through this recovery so much faster than expected! I sucked it up, put my head down and drove, one step after another, until I was standing on the summit. The best part was my back pain was pretty much gone!! As I sat there looking through “God’s window” I realized that in addition to being pain free, I could think more clearly, I could reason once again and most importantly, I felt anything was possible! As I passed my last “trail marker,” I was 27 pounds lighter, I felt hardly any pain, I felt like my old self again and I “walked off that mountain” 7 days earlier than expected! In the end, I owe it all to God and the excellent staff at Pür Detox . Between the constant check-ups, the non-judgmental conversations and the top notch facilities and staff I’ve never before possessed better “climbing” tools to reach a summit. What started out as Mount Everest turned into Half Dome due to this fine facility. I know there are other places you can go to “reach your summit” but I don’t know why you would want to! I haven’t ever been a part of a finer “summit team”. If I can do it, I know you can.  Anything is possible if you want it bad enough – you just have to keep putting one foot in front of the other. And it wasn’t just the staff or the “tools” that made it easier, your fellow “climbers” help you up when you fall, carry your “pack” when it gets too heavy and even detail the easiest route to the “summit” from their own personal experiences. I couldn’t have done it without them! As I stand at the foot of the mountain I have just conquered, I will summarize the pyramid of tools I used for success: God, an excellent and caring staff, and your fellow climbers. Without that balance, I wouldn’t have been successful! ‘I feel it’s important to not only be strong, but to feel strong…to test yourself in those most ancient of ways, just once and truly feel alive.’ – Alexander Supertramp. I know if you begin your journey here, you too can look through God’s window and smile as he smiles down on you because this would have been the most important “summit” of your life. It was for me!” – R.A. —————————————————————- Saved From Alcohol – Nov 2009 “I was lying in a hotel room on an 8-day binge of worshipping my vodka and cursing it at the same time feeling the physical, emotional and spiritual pain of every swallow. After the 8th day, desperate to stop and not to die, I had a “moment of clarity”. I started a new journey that began at 6:00am that morning leading me by car from St. Louis, MO to Jackson, TN to my parent’s home begging them to help me get to a place where I could be SAVED. Withdrawals already in full force and wanting to drink more for relief, we got on the phone to Pür Detox . Chris assured me they could help and had a place waiting just for me. My journey that day continued to Memphis, TN Airport escorted by my parents who watched me get onto an airplane heading for John Wayne Airport. There I was met by Chris himself as I got off the airplane feeling and seeing death. I was safely at Pur Detox ready for whatever was to come. By 11:30pm that same day my journey to get there began. With the caring, committed and understanding and professional staff at work, within 3 days I FELT life again and regained some dignity, self-worth and HOPE. I am proof that their philosophy of cleansing and flushing a body of its toxins with vitamins, minerals, supplements, anti-oxidants works! I do believe in miracles and I believe I am one of them because I am alive and well on my way to a life of recovery.” – J.S. —————————————————————- Fighting Benzo’s – Sept 2009 I am a 44 year old woman who has a history of mild anxiety.  Last spring I began taking a benzo to alleviate the symptoms, which it did.  When I tried to “go off” the benzos, my body was is such withdrawal that I was prescribed antidepressants .  After taking these for a month, I began a new symptom: depression.  The roller coaster of anxiety/depression/sleeplessness was incapacitating, and what eventually led me to despair and hopelessness.  After months of trying to reduce the meds myself, I ended up coming to California to Pür Detox to engage in the sauna program to remove the residual chemicals from my tissues. I was terrified to be here, but the love and support from the staff was what I needed to get through the detox process.  I never felt more understood than I have here. They have seen it all! Nothing surprised or shocks them, which is why they are so trained to help you through each crisis as it arises. Sometimes it is just a walk to the beach with a companion that is needed to bring hope and perspective. Sometimes, it is a talk or meal on the patio.  Sometimes, it is watching a funny video at 2 in the morning.  The staff here seems to sense what you need and then deliver it. The sauna program has helped me to rid my body of old toxins. Somewhere in the second week, I began to sense the depression lift.  I could smile and laugh once again.  The despair was not taking hold.  I began to be able to commune with God again, to sense His presence, to know He was walking this road with me and had plans for my future. Upon completing the program, I am now ready to return home with hope. I have learned tools to help with the residual anxiety that I have always had. The funny thing is, I leave here with life-long friends who I will miss much and can call anytime for encouragement and understanding.  We are all getting better and none of us are alone. There is so much life to be lived. Pür Detox is a great place to get those are being controlled by drugs to get free of their grasp and to start to really live again, the way God intended. - L.B. —————————————————————- September 2009 I am so grateful to everyone at the Pür Detox Program.  I don’t believe anyone else would have been able to give us what we needed to help my son with his drug addictions and Paxil withdrawal .  I’ve gained an enormous understanding about nutrition, addiction, pain management and alternatives to prescription drugs. This program provided us with so much more than I expected and provided my son with immediate relief from pain, anxiety and depression, things I could not help him with. I don’t think you can put a price on a person’s life or well being. The program was worth every penny.  The staff is very friendly and supportive.  The food is amazing. The knowledge of the staff is very high and I found the night staff particularly helpful in alleviating my son’s pain in a caring and supportive manner.  There is somewhat of a family atmosphere to Pür Detox and I felt comfortable there, in spite of having so much to adapt to. I would love to see this program expanded all across North America, since I think it is unique amongst all detox/rehab programs.  I would certainly recommend it as a first choice when seeking something beyond the typical 12 step program. It may be possible to find similar treatment in other cities, but in reality, I think I would have had to argue with a doctor for months before they agreed to give my son an IV drip in Canada.  Further, I might have been completely unsuccessful at even getting one for him.  The IV drip was a true turning point for his pain and anxiety. If I had to do it all over again (I don’t mean by way of relapse), I would absolutely change nothing, since I got what I was looking for, and I am purely grateful this program exists. - K.B. —————————————————————- January 2009 When I first walked in to Pür Detox , I was on the verge of death, at least it felt that way, if I was feeling anything at all.  I was strung out on 3 different pain killers, 2 benzos, 2 psychiatric drugs, muscle relaxants and more.  I was a walking zombie.  As I got off the drugs, ALL of them, over the next couple weeks, the fog over my body and mind slowly began to lift, yet I felt lifeless, zero energy, like a bystander watching others live life.  I began the sauna program and saw and felt the results of the toxins pouring out of my body and it was no less than inspiring.  This program for me, and anyone in my position is no less than miraculous.  By far, and with more words than I can possibly express, this is the optimal manner to detoxify your body of the poisons from drugs, in the shortest time possible.  The way I feel now, mentally clear and responsive, so vibrant and alert, really makes it hard for me and others to believe.  Everyone I talk to for the first time comments on my level of alertness and clarity in speech and thinking.  I now know I can handle any and all of the obstacles in my future life, obstacles that were complete roadblocks of doubt and fear previously. I had been to rehab before for some pretty nasty prescription and street drugs, without the sauna program.   The difference in the way I feel now compared to the way I felt coming out of the last place is light years ahead this time.  Before, it probably took 6 months to a year to get back to a relative normal mentality and I know I didn’t feel this good with this much clarity in mind and body.  I am truly amazed and humbled by the blessing in my life of having gone to Pür Detox and having participated in the sauna program.  I have to say how incredibly caring, supportive and helpful the staff of Pür Detox was to me.  When I think of the whole experience of my time at Pür, it brings a tear to my eye to think of the level of pure charity and love that was shown to me. Theirs is more than a service or business, it truly is a labor of love.  I’m sure, I never would have made it without the encouragement and constant level of care they continuously gave to me.  To me, it is a miracle. - M.A. —————————————————————- September 2009 To the staff of Pür Detox : Just about 10 days ago I had a plan in action to take my life. I had been hoarding pills and the option to take them became a very viable answer to the total hopelessness I was feeling. I have an incredible husband of 36 years and 4 children. The youngest is 4 and oldest 34. Today, the thought that I could actually choose to leave my family sends pure terror down my body. Looking back, I did have the tools to know I had to have help; I could not do alone what I considered to be a lack in strength and intelligence. I knew that what I was doing was not working; every visit to the psychiatrist was just an addition of medication. It was as if I became completely lacking in feelings (up or down) then he had done his job. I turned my computer on and by my belief, the Grace of God opened the web page of Pür Detox . Alternative—Naturopathic—off medications not medically needed (or working) and using vitamin, mineral, all natural supplements? Was this my answer? It took only a second to ask for a call back. The call came in seconds and my questions were answered and something outside of my power loudly let me know this was what I was looking for. Being a state away from this facility, I was met by a staff member within 5 hours of that call. I knew instinctively that this was exactly where I was supposed to be. I could hardly move, speak, eat, drink; however, I could believe that something might actually help me; I could sit in the possibility of a return to life. Although my first day was a holiday, the Medical Director came to the facility to assist in the beginning of a process to help me feel comfortable in my skin. There was something in this action that gave me the feeling that these people cared about me—someone in this world (other than my family) wanted me to know that I was worth feeling good; I was worth the time of these incredible people, even on a holiday! Me, who was just ready to leave this world being worthless, poor in spirit, lost, and terrified. I have now experienced a group of men and women who are willing to walk to the beach at 1:00 AM if it might help in how I feel. I believe that is a very hard thing to dismiss. These wonderful people seemed to know intuitively what I needed (not necessarily what I wanted) and I believed in their way. By day 4 here, I had a voice back, I had a smile back, again I say, I believed so strongly this was the right place for me. My body began to stop hurting, I began sleeping, eating, laughing, looking at a beautiful future. It has not always been easy and uphill—but there was always someone to help me see good, to help me see I was not alone. I was not condemned to live in a world of shadows; a world where I could not play with my 4 year old or my grandsons; a world that I could not be there for my husband and grown children. I realized I had hope again and my smile, (inside and out) began to grow. I know hope. I no longer take (or crave) a medication (this includes benzodiazepines, antidepressants, hormone replacement therapy, just to name a few). These have been replaced and balanced in my system in a natural way. I am writing only a few hours from leaving for home—a very short time to change my entire life. I do live in reality and know that it is not always going to be easy and someone will be there with an answer. I do know that change can occur and I know I can pick up the phone at anytime and talk with someone who knows and cares. My husband and youngest daughter visited me just a few days ago and out of the mouth of babes, my 4 year old said “Momma, you have light in your eyes”. Is there a better testimony? Not for me—I want to be there as a Mom with that light—one that is real and not dimmed by medication/drugs. If I wanted the research base, I could find it—it would only affirm what I am experiencing. I don’t need to look at the research—I want to live my life that has been returned to me. I have never had to prove myself to anyone here. When I first walked through the doors, I had a feeling that I was trusted and I was believed. When I was unable to sleep at night—I was encouraged to sleep whenever I could. Rest is good for the body and soul. I have been in other facilities and there is no comparison for me. I truly believe I will live a longer and happier life continuing to do what I have been taught here. When I need help, I know where to call; I know where my call will be welcomed as coming home. I was told last night by a dear friend who is also a patient here that I was the funniest person she had ever known. She is talking about someone who was unable to smile only a week ago. I laugh, I cry, I feel. I would name the staff, but there are too many. Words can’t express what I feel about each and every one of you. You each have a very special place in my heart. My gratitude goes beyond what time provides me. From my heart and soul, thank you for believing in me and helping me cleanse body and soul. I have hope; I need say no more. Thank You, N.B. —————————————————————- August 2009 I have been on the Sauna Detox Program for 10 days now and have felt and experienced some pretty great things. My ability to concentrate, read and problem solve has dramatically increased. It is no longer a struggle to open up a book and read a few chapters, whereas before, simply reading a page would cause anxiety because of my inability to focus and retain information. My mood has also begun to stabilize. The proportion of good vs. bad emotions during the day has changed for the better. I no longer find it as challenging just to make it through a simple day. I feel proud of myself for making it this far and I’m excited to feel, and witness any further changes. - S.S. —————————————————————- May 2009 Prior to doing my Sauna Detox ification Program, I’d been smoking marijuana and drinking alcohol everyday.  I also had a 13 year history of heavy drug use, including LSD, ecstasy, crystal meth, cocaine… I became depressed and couldn’t understand what happened to the happy person I once thought I was.  I was using the drugs to “have a good time” but it wasn’t working anymore.  I’d fallen away from my family and lost friends.  I was unable to create my own happiness anymore. I started the S auna Detox ification Program and immediately I felt life again.  I couldn’t believe what a dark cloud the drugs had put over me until I started to flush my body clean of them.  Day by day, I was able to see more clearly and vividly, food and water tasted better, my hearing improved, my thoughts turned from confused and introverted to extroverted and optimistic…it was like thin veils were being pulled off my senses and I was being given their full potential back.  I actually began to feel the happiness of having myself back. Now, I am interested. Reading is easier, I’m reading whole books now where before I couldn’t concentrate long enough to get through a few chapters, and I would just give up.  My IQ increased 17 points.  I can talk to people and listen without my mind wandering.  Overall, I just feel like I’ve been given a new beginning in my life and I have the freedom again to live it! This has been an amazing experience and I am forever grateful for it. Thank you! C.D. —————————————————————- Testimonials & News Call For A Free Consultation 1-877-907-3422 Medical Detox Program | Sauna Detox Program | Meet Our Doctors | Our Locations | Testimonials and News | Blog | FAQs | Contact Us © Copyright 2009 Pur De