
Feverfew for Migraine Headaches, Buy Bulk About Us Co-Packing Shop Contact Us Account Login Product Catalog Bulk Herbs & Spices Organic Herbs & Spices Spice Blends Bulk Teas Essential Oils Fragrance Oils Carrier Oils Glassware Herbal Supplies Spice Racks Best Sellers FAQ's Newsletter toll free.800.500.6148 phone.831.722-3400 fax.831.722-3405 support@herbco.com Feverfew Return to Catalog Feverfew herb, c/s Organic (1282) Size Price Quantity Per Pound $11.50 Per 1/4 Pound $4.60 Feverfew Brings Migraine Relief Feverfew is an herb that was used by the Greeks in ancient times. Originally, it was mostly used to treat women for menstrual irregularities and to help expel the placenta after childbirth. It was also used for headaches, toothaches, and just about anything you’d take an aspirin for now. While feverfew is a plant native to Europe, colonists brought it to the America’s in the 1600s. There it was used as a cure for headaches and in South America it was used to treat problems with the kidneys. It was also used in Central America for headaches and colic. But after many years of use, feverfew fell out of favor with herbalists. It was almost forgotten. But in the 1970s, feverfew felt a resurgence. That’s because the wife of a Welsh doctor discovered that by eating fresh feverfew leaves she gained relief from her migraine headaches. News spread fast, and feverfew became an important herb for the modern herbalist. Feverfew has since been studied and scientists believe that it helps to relax the smooth muscle walls of blood vessels. Since migraines are caused from the constriction of blood vessels in the brain, that may be how feverfew actually prevents problems with migraines. In many cases, feverfew has been found to actually treat and prevent migraines. It’s also been used to treat the stomach upset that often goes hand in hand with a migraine. For example, many people experience nausea and even vomiting during a migraine. In addition to being used to combat migraines, feverfew also makes a great remedy for menstrual problems such as cramping and irregularity. It can also be taken for problems such as joint pain and rheumatism. When you’re using feverfew, it’s important to use a high quality dried leaf. Fresh leaves have actually been found to cause some mouth irritation and even ulcers. However, when you use dried leaves you avoid this effect and you still get the benefit of reduction in migraines and other types of pain. If you’re suffering from migraines either sporadically or regularly, feverfew will make a good addition to your routine. Instead of taking very expensive pharmaceuticals that also have dramatic side effects, you can depend on nature to give you relief. Keep a stock of dried leaves in your supplies so that you’ll be ready when a migraine hits. Migraines are so very painful and can really stop your life. But when you have the tools you need to knock them out, you’ll be able to keep going with your day. Popular Herbs and Spices buchu - cotton drawstring bags - bulk herbal teas - bulk flaxseed - osha root - wormwood herb - herbal tea blends - raspberry leaf - buy cinnamon - buy lily of the valley - tea tree essential - herbs of provence - stainless steel spice racks - bulk buckwheat hulls - eleuthero root - bulk herbs spices - blackhaw - cosmetic clay - poppy bulbs - black walnut leaf - young hyson tea - herbal eyebright - sheep sorrel - bulk medicinal herbs - buy bulk spices - gunpowder green tea - bulk glassware - elecampane root - white oak bark - wood betony - elder berry - empty tea bag - turkey rhubarb - bulk saffron - soapwort root - milk thistle powder - catnip leaf - spice herb - cubeb berry - prickly ash bark - blueberry leaf - magnetic spice - dong quai pregnancy - sassafras root bark - saint johns wart - yerba santa leaf - kelp iodine - chamomile bulk - cap m quick - herb suppliers - mugwort herb - buy black cohosh - wild indigo root - cayenne pepper bulk - monterey bay catalog - co packing - damiana leaves - alfalfa leaf powder - lemon verbena tea - queen of the meadow - acerola vitamin c - buy hyssop - schizandra berry powder Shopping Basket is Empty Monterey Bay Spice Company 241 Walker Street Watsonville, CA 95076 800-500-6148 support@herbco.com Bulk Herbs & Spices Herbal Information Organic Herbs Bulk Teas Essential Oils Fragrance Oils Glassware Herbal Supplies Spice Racks Sitemap MBSC offers Herb and Tea tips o