
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 07:09:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.homeopathyhaven.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Aloe Vera Plants | Homeopathy Haven Homeopathy Haven Pages Home Allergy Homeopathy Arthritis Homeopathy Boiron Homeopathy Homeopathy Books Homeopathy Kits Homeopathy Magnets Homeopathy Medicine Phosphorus Homeopathy Psoriasis Homeopathy Pulsatilla Homeopathy Sepia Homeopathy Sulphur Homeopathy Thuja Homeopathy Categories Homeopathy Articles Homeopathy FAQs Homeopathy News Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 Blogroll Meta Log in WordPress XHTML RSS Comments RSS November 24, 2008 (0) Comments Aloe Vera Plant admin aloe vera gel , aloe vera plant , aloe vera plants , aloe vera products , medicinal aloe vera , natural aloe vera products Medicinal Aloe Vera plants can be found in households all over the world, because they are known to be a medicinal herb. Unlike some species of plants, the aloe vera plant rarely is found to be growing in the wild. It is currently known to mainly live in captivity or cultivated by farmers for commercial use. That is what makes it rather unique in relation to the majority of other household plants that still grow naturally outdoors. Another unique quality is that this plant has many health benefits reported to boost your immune system and case studies have shown that vera juice extract has a positive effect on diabetes and heart disease. As the stalks include several medical compounds, including acetylated mannans, polymannans, anthraquinone C-glycosides, anthrones and anthraquinones and lectins; aloe tends to be added to a wide range of natural Aloe Vera products to entice users to purchase them. The aloe vera plant is a succulent plant, thriving in gardening zones 8-10. It is suitable as an ornamental plant for low-water gardens, as well as indoors. Cool, harsh weather can greatly harm it’s chances for survival and it will die in snow or frost. However, you can keep in alive in colder climates by putting it in a greenhouse or transplanting it indoors for the winter months. Being a succulent, the aloe vera plant resembles cacti and other common desert plants. As it is suited for dry climates, over watering is the most common cause of death of this plant. The best way to determine when it needs to be watered is by the soil, which should be very dry before watering, this will help to prevent harming or killing it, therefore, the soil is a good indicator on the best time to water the plant. The soil used for potted aloe vera should be compatible with good drainage, as too much sitting water will cause root rot. When grown at home, the aloe vera plant is typically used as a topical treatment for burns and cuts. The healing rate process has not been calculated or agreed upon however, it is still something this marvelous plant does provide. Studies have been conducted to observe the healing rate with various factors, such as the type of wound inflicted, it’s severity and how it was bandage after applying aloe vera to it. Several of these studies have shown that the aloe vera plant does indeed speed-up the healing process overall. Aloe vera may be digested. Despite the lack of specific scientific proof on the increased healing and other properties of aloe vera, it has gained a high regard by the average individual, granting the aloe vera plant a place in shampoos, lotions, soaps and a wide range of cosmetics. The benefit to consumers from these products with aloe vera is something highly desired, despite the lack of scientific confirmation of it’s benefits. The aloe vera gel found in the plant, is believed to have originated in Africa, with cousins of the aloe vera plant still surviving to date. There are references to aloe in the bible, which makes it one of the oldest documented species of plants known. Subscribe/Search Subscribe via RSS Feed Subscribe via Email Great Deals Recent Entries Tips On How To Remove Skin Tags Best Resveratrol Viral Bronchitis The Most Wonderful Thing That Give The Genuine Thing Seeking Out Acupuncture For Fertility Things You May Need To Understand About Medical Cannabis In Sacramento Homeopathy Remedies Amazon.com Widgets Tag Cloud acid reflux Acupuncture acupuncture for fertility acupuncture for infertility alternative alternative health alternative medicine alternative_medication anxiety anxiety attacks aromatherapy body cleansing chinese medicine cleansing colon cleanse colon cleansing cosmetics depression detoxification disease electronic cigarettes essential oils fitness health heartburn hemorrhoids herbs home homeopathy homeopathy remedies hypnosis medicine natural natural health natural remedies natural remedy panic attacks psychology Sacramento Medical Marijuana skin treating children with homeopathy treatment Vitamins Weight Loss yeast infection More Great Deals © Copyright 2008. Maggo The