
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
ntCoent-Length: 94973
Cache-Control: private, max-age=352
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 20:03:56 GMT
Connection: close

Types of dementia Home Home Free newsletters Health A-Z Acne ADHD Alcohol abuse Allergies Alzheimer's disease Anxiety & panic disorders Arthritis Asthma Back pain Bowel cancer Breast cancer Cancer Living well with cancer Caring Cervical cancer Cholesterol management Cold & flu Contraception Depression Diabetes Diet Digestive health Eczema Erectile dysfunction Eye health Fertility Fitness London Olympics Foot care Hair loss Healthy ageing Healthy eating Healthy skin Heart disease Heartburn/GORD HIV Hypertension/high blood pressure IBS Lung cancer Melanoma/skin cancer Menopause Mental health Migraines & headaches Navigating the NHS Newborn & baby Oral health Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Ovarian cancer Pain management Pancreatic cancer Pregnancy Prostate cancer Sex & relationships Sexual conditions Shingles Skin problems Sleep disorders Smoking cessation Stress management Stroke Travel Urinary incontinence Vitamins & minerals Slideshows A-Z See all topics WebMD Symptom Checker WebMD Symptom Checker Medicines & treatments Medicines & treatments Vitamins & minerals Women Breast cancer Caring Diet Fitness Healthy skin Menopause Osteoporosis Ovarian cancer Pregnancy Sex & relationships Sexual conditions Men Diet Erectile dysfunction Fitness Healthy skin Prostate cancer Sex & relationships Children ADHD Allergies Asthma Cold & flu Newborn & baby Skin conditions News News Free newsletters Enter Search Keywords: Symptoms | Medicines | Conditions Feedback BootsWebMD Home Alzheimer's disease health centre Email a friend Print article Alzheimer's disease health centre Types of dementia What is dementia? Dementia is the loss of mental functions, such as thinking, memory, and
reasoning, that is severe enough to interfere with a person's daily life.
Dementia is not a disease itself, but rather a group of symptoms that may
accompany certain diseases or conditions. Symptoms may involve changes in
personality, mood and behaviour. Dementia develops when the parts of the brain that are involved with
learning, memory, decision-making and language are affected by injury or
disease. The most common cause of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, which is
considered responsible for at least half of all cases of dementia. However,
there are as many as 50 other known causes of dementia, but most of these
causes are very rare. Recommended Related to Alzheimer's Ten tips for long-distance Alzheimer’s disease care If your mother lives in Scotland and you're in London, how do you help take
care of her? Here are 10 strategies to help you cope, adapted from the book,
Long-Distance Caregiving: A Survival Guide for Far Away Caregivers, by Angela
Heath.

  1. Get organised
  
Keep track of important information in a care diary.

  2. Establish an informal network
  
Ask for help from people who live in the same neighbourhood as the person with
Alzheimer’s, such as relatives, neighbours, long-time family... Read the Ten tips for long-distance Alzheimer’s disease care article > > Although many diseases that cause dementia are not curable, some forms of
dementia may improve greatly when the underlying cause is treated. For
instance, if dementia is caused by vitamin or hormone deficiencies, the
symptoms may resolve once the problem has been corrected. Therefore, dementia
symptoms require comprehensive evaluation, so as not to miss potentially
reversible conditions. The frequency of "treatable" causes of dementia is
believed to be about 20%. What causes dementia? The most common causes of dementia include: degenerative neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease (a rare inherited disorder) and some
types of multiple sclerosis vascular disorders, such as multi-infarct dementia, which is caused by
multiple strokes in the brain traumatic brain injury caused by motor vehicle accidents, falls, etc. infections of the central nervous system such as meningitis , HIV and
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a quickly progressing and fatal disease that is
characterised by dementia and muscle twitching and spasm chronic alcohol or drug use depression certain types of hydrocephalus, an excess accumulation of fluid in the
brain that can result from developmental abnormalities, infections, injury, or
brain tumours Dementia can be split into two broad categories, the cortical dementias and
the subcortical dementias, based on which part of the brain is affected. Cortical dementias arise from a disorder affecting the cerebral
cortex, the outer layers of the brain that play a critical role in thinking
abilities like memory and language. Alzheimer's and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
are two forms of cortical dementia. People with cortical dementia typically
show severe memory loss and aphasia, the inability to recall words and
understand language. Subcortical dementias result from dysfunction in the parts of the
brain that are beneath the cortex. Usually, the forgetfulness and language
difficulties that are characteristic of cortical dementias are not present.
Rather, people with subcortical dementias, such as Parkinson's disease,
Huntington's disease, and AIDS dementia complex, tend to show changes in their
speed of thinking and ability to initiate activities. There are cases of dementia where both parts of the brain tend to be
affected, such as multi-infarct dementia. 1 | 2 Next Page > WebMD Medical Reference Top Picks Try these stress-fighting foods Early dementia? Can singing help dementia patients? Foods for a healthy brain Serotonin Q & A Further Reading: Smoking and high blood pressure may age the brain and affect thinking Dementia - Treatment of dementia Dementia - What will happen? Dementia - What will happen? Dementia - What are the symptoms of dementia? Poor dementia care costs millions Tummy fat increases dementia risk See All Dementia Topics Dementia home Medical reference Features Health tools News archive Alzheimer's disease guide 1 Overview & facts 2 Symptoms & types 3 Diagnosis & tests 4 Treatment & care 5 Living & managing 6 Finding help Related to Alzheimer's disease Alzheimer's news & features Alzheimer's reference Caring Dementia Depression Down's syndrome Healthy Ageing Hot topics in the UK Alzheimer's: Controversial risk factors Carers: When a loved one has Alzheimer's Is it ageing, dementia, or Alzheimer's? Alzheimer's & exercise Alzheimer's: What you should know The truth about HRT & dementia Eat smart for a healthier brain WebMD Video: Now Playing Food wars Elderly people need good nutrition, so cooking for and feeding an ageing adult is important. Popular Slideshows & Tools on Boots WebMD Previous Next First foods Baby food dos and don'ts Lose weight without dieting See 24 tips The worst and best shoes For your feet Weight gain shockers Why you’re getting fat Addicted to sugar? Get the facts Immune-boosting foods The role of diet Adult skin problems Recognise these? 7 most effective exercises Smart moves What your nails say about your health The nail file Flat abs Top tips to tone your tummy Toddler milestones What to expect in year 2 Fitness crazes Workouts for men and women » Sign up for our newsletters In-depth coverage: Baby food dos and don'ts | Weight loss goals | Toddler milestones | Caring for dry skin Who we are: About us | Terms and conditions | Security and privacy | Sponsor policy | Help | Sitemap | Contact us | Advertise with us WebMD | MedicineNet | eMedicineHealth | Medscape | RxList | Medscape Reference Services from Boots: Store Locator | NHS & Private Prescriptions | Free Repeat Prescription Service | Midnight Pharmacy | Medicines Check-Up | Weight Loss Programme | Hair Retention Programme | Flu Vaccination Service | Erectile Dysfunction Programme | Cervical Cancer Vaccination Service | Health Club | Parenting Club | Opticians | Hearing Care | Insurance Services ©2009-2012 WebMD UK Limited and Boots UK Limited. All rights reserved. BootsWebMD does not provide medical