
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 09:57:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Pregnancy; How to Manage Those Ugly Stretch Marks Helpful Information Portal Navigation Home page Submit an article Disclaimer Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Pregnancy; How to Manage Those Ugly Stretch Marks Richard Research There are a number of personal issues that every pregnant woman will worry and stress about while waiting for the new arrival. The two most common ones are certainly the weight gain that comes from being pregnant, and the unsightly stretch marks that are caused from your tummy expanding with the new baby. If you are a fan of the bikini brigade that loves the great outdoors and swimming, then you are going to be horrified at the blue purplish lines that are forming on your thighs, buttocks and abdomen.  Unfortunately there is not a lot you can really do about them happening, but there are ways to prevent them becoming permanent and noticeable after you have given birth to your baby. There are a number of products on the market that promise magical solutions to make stretch marks disappear but these claims are certainly not true. There are creams and skin nourishing formulas that can work to make stretch marks almost un- noticeable but it is sensible having knowledge of what ingredients they contain that will help manage those ugly stretch marks. Vitamin E Alpha Tocopherol benefits for Stretch Marks Vitamin E is extracted from a variety of different plants with some examples being nuts like almonds, kiwi fruits, and mangos.  Numerous clinical studies have proved that vitamin E can help in the reduction of scarring and stretch marks because of its assistance in skin regeneration. It penetrates deep below the epidermis and stimulates new skin cell growth which replaces the scar tissue found beneath stretch marks. With Regular treatments of Vitamin E your stretch marks will become thinner and almost fade altogether. Using Vitamin E during your term of pregnancy will aid the skins elasticity which will also speed up the healing process. The benefits of Aloe Vera Extract in Skin Healing It is already well known in medical circles the benefits Aloe Vera has in healing properties for wounds and for the skin. Using Aloe Vera for small wounds results in healing wounds without any scar being apparent afterwards. As your abdomen expands during pregnancy your stretch marks start out as fine tears in the skin layers due to overstretching of the dermis. By using Aloe Vera you can help heal these fine tears and at the same time avoid scarring from stretch marks afterwards. Using skin care products with aloe Vera is a sensible choice considering that it has already been used by the Egyptians and Romans for thousands of years already. This extract is derived from the aloe leaf and is great for skin protection and healing. Heal Damaged Skin with DL-Penthenol DL-Penthenol is the scientific name given to pro-vitamin B5. It has been proven to have exceptional properties in healing damaged skin as it works to improve the structure of both the lower and upper skin layers.  This excellent extract known as DL-Panthenol soothes your skin while at the sane time stimulating cell growth and differentiation.  This ingredient also helps in the in the regeneration of your skin, and will aid reducing the appearance of existing stretch marks by replacing the scar tissue with newly generated skin cells. In addition to this it is good to use while you are pregnant because it also acts to prevent stretch marks by promoting collagen and elastin production, which allows your skin to stretch without rupturing and causing stretch marks. Vitamin D3 Excellent for Skin Cell Production Vitamin D3 is vital for new skin cell production and works hand in hand with vitamins A and E in the regeneration process of your skin. In normal circumstances vitamin D3 is produced in the upper skin layers upon exposure to sunlight. Unfortunately many people lack enough of vitamin D3 with our modern fast paced live styles where we are working in closed buildings so getting skin care products with extra vitamin D3 is useful.  When applied onto your skin in high concentrations vitamin D3 also shows beneficial effects on cellular processes. This Vitamin increases the cellular activity around stretch marks and as a result will rejuvenate your skin. When it comes to stretch marks like anything else prevention is better than cure and using the top quality skin care products on the market is a sensible choice. Making sure that they contain as many as the above mentioned ingredients will ensure you get the results you desire and avoid ugly stretch marks after pregnancy. Stretch Mark Skin Care Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16