Connection: close

Ear Drops (carbamide peroxide) Otic Uses and How to Use Your Prescription Drug Destination See all our sites for your special health needs at www.HealthCentral.com Ear Drops (carbamide peroxide) Otic Search: Choose a suggestion... ...or just finish typing Site Web Drugs A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z BY CONDITION Font size A A A Email This Bookmark Ear Drops (carbamide peroxide) Otic In Depth Uses and How to Use Precautions and Side Effects Drug Interactions Dosage and Storage Generic Name: CARBAMIDE PEROXIDE - OTIC Pronounced: (KAR-buh-mide purr-OX-ide) Ear Drops (carbamide peroxide) Otic Uses This medication is used to treat earwax buildup. It helps
		  to soften, loosen, and remove the earwax. Too much earwax can block the ear
		  canal and reduce hearing. This medication releases oxygen and starts to foam
		  when it comes in contact with the skin. The foaming helps break up and remove
		  the earwax. advertisement Consult your doctor before using this product in children
		  younger than 12 years. How To Use Ear Drops (carbamide peroxide) Otic This medication is for use only in the ear. Apply this
		  medication into the ear, usually twice daily or as directed by your doctor. Do
		  not use this medication for more than 4 days at a time unless your doctor
		  instructs you to. Follow all directions on the product package. If you are
		  uncertain about any of the information, consult your doctor or
		  pharmacist. To make sure that the right amount of medication is given,
		  and to avoid touching the ear with the dropper, have another person give the
		  drops if possible. To lower the risk of dizziness, hold the container in your
		  hand for a few minutes to warm it. To apply ear drops, wash your hands first. To avoid
		  contamination, do not touch the dropper tip or let it touch your ear or any
		  other surface. Lie on your side or tilt the affected ear upward. Hold the
		  dropper directly over the ear and place 5 to 10 drops into the ear canal. To
		  help the drops roll into the ear of an adult, hold the earlobe up and back. In
		  children, hold the earlobe down and back. Keep the head tilted for several
		  minutes or insert a soft cotton plug in the ear. If there is any wax remaining after treatment, it may be
		  removed by gently rinsing the ear with warm water or using an ear syringe with
		  a soft rubber bulb. Consult your doctor or pharmacist about using an ear
		  syringe safely. Do not rinse the dropper. Replace the dropper cap after
		  use. Avoid getting this medication in your eyes. If this
		  occurs, rinse the eyes thoroughly with water. If your condition persists after 4 days of use or if it
		  worsens, or if you think you may have a serious medical problem, seek immediate
		  medical attention. Next Section Precautions and Side Effects Font size A A A Email This Bookmark People who read this also read... What's HOT Home Body Fat Test Calculate your Ideal Body Weight Body Mass Index (BMI) Calculator SPF Quiz: How Well Do You Know Your Sunscreen? Are you at risk for type 2 diabetes? Other  Drugs Abilify Crestor Nexium Lipitor Viagra Zyrtec Most Viewed Kidney Infection Cipro Celexa Drugs and Medicines Swollen Lymph Nodes Wellbutrin Zoloft Gallbladder Removal Featuring Content From: About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Security Policy By using this service, you accept our Terms of Use. Please read them .
			The consumer health information on HealthSquare.com is for informational purposes only and is not
			a substitute for medical advice or treatment for any medical conditions. You should promptly seek
			professional medical care if you have any concern about your health, and you should always consult
			your physician before starting a fitness regimen. Copy