
Sealants - Health - Government of Saskatchewan Choose a Ministry Advanced Education, Employment and Immigration Agriculture Corrections, Public Safety and Policing Education Energy and Resources Environment Executive Council Finance First Nations and Métis Relations Government Services Health Highways and Infrastructure Information Technology Office Justice and Attorney General Labour Relations and Workplace Safety Municipal Affairs Office of the Provincial Capital Commission Office of the Provincial Secretary Public Service Commission (PSC) Social Services Tourism, Parks, Culture and Sport Health Quick Search: This Site All Government Sites Advanced Search | Help? Wednesday, February 15, 2012 Directory | Contact Us Services For: Adults Youth Health Providers Home / Sections / Healthy Living / Dental Health / Sealants Resources About Saskatchewan About Government About Health Career Planning & Jobs Common Questions Forms Health System Healthy Living Health Providers Innovations Legislation Ministry Overview News Releases Programs & Services Publications Service Finder Did you know? If you or a family member will be out of the province for more than three months, you need to make sure your health coverage remains in place. Call Health Registration at 1-800-667-7551. Read more about health benefits. Dental Health Sealants Dental Sealants - Seal Out Tooth Decay What is a sealant? A sealant is a clear or shaded plastic material that is applied to the chewing surfaces of back teeth. This is where decay most often occurs. (See more information below.) What does a sealant do? A sealant prevents tooth decay. It covers the pits and grooves of chewing surfaces and seals out decay-causing food and germs. Side view of narrow groove on top surface of tooth compared to single toothbrush bristle. When should sealants be placed? Sealants are most beneficial if they are placed on permanent molars as soon as the teeth come in. The first permanent molars grow in between the ages of 5 and 7. The second permanent molars grow in between the ages of 11 and 14. How is a sealant placed? A sealant is placed by a dental professional. The procedure is simple and painless. It takes only a few minutes. The tooth is cleaned and treated with a solution that allows the sealant to stick to the tooth. Sealants are painted on as a liquid and quickly harden to form a shield over the tooth. How long will a sealant last? Sealants can last for up to 10 years. They can be checked at dental visits to see if they need to be replaced. What about fluoride? Fluoride makes teeth more resistant to decay and can repair tiny areas of decay before they become big cavities. The most common sources of fluoride are toothpaste or fluoridated water. Both sealants and fluoride are recommended for best protection against tooth decay. Sealants + Flouride = Maximum Protection Against Cavities Chewing surface of teeth before sealant is applied Chewing surface of teeth when sealant is applied A Message from Your Dental Health Coordinator Children need to have their teeth and gums cleaned daily to prevent tooth decay and gum disease. Parents need to help children learn oral hygiene skills. Brushing Basics A parent should supervise brushing for children under age 8. Brush twice a day - in the morning and at bedtime. A thorough brushing takes 2-3 minutes. Use a soft bristled toothbrush. If you are not sure if your child is at risk for tooth decay, ask a health professional. Use a toothbrush moistened with water for children under age 3 when not at risk for tooth decay. Use fluoride toothpaste the size of a grain of rice for children under age 3 when at risk for tooth decay. Use a pea-size portion of fluoride toothpaste for children over age 3.  The toothpaste should be approved by the Canadian Dental Association. Children should spit out toothpaste. Swallowing toothpaste should be discouraged. Replace toothbrushes every three months. If your child has just recovered from an illness, use a new toothbrush. Flossing Facts Flossing helps to prevent gum disease. Flossing cleans between teeth and under the gums where the toothbrush cannot reach. A parent will need to floss their child's teeth until around age 9. Usually by this time the child should be able to floss on his/her own. Beat Sweets Encourage healthy snacks. Reduce how often snacks are offered, especially sticky foods that cling to teeth. Eat sweets at the end of a meal. Increased saliva flow during meals helps reduce the effects of harmful acids. Choose milk or water more often than sugary drinks. Dental Visits Visit the dentist regularly - at least once a year. Related Documents Seal Out Tooth Decay seal-out-tooth-decay.pdf ( 444.5 KB ) Health | Disclaimer | Privacy | Help | Feedback | Site Map | © Copyright 2007 Home / Sections / Healthy Living / Dental Health / Seala