
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:14:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 12:13:29 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Azulfidine eMedTV Sitemap Colitis Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Colitis Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Colitis Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Colitis Articles Video eMedTV Video Colitis Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Crohn's Disease Crohn's Disease Diet Crohn's Disease Medications Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative Colitis Diet Crohn's Disease Treatment Collagenous Colitis Lialda Humira Asacol Pentasa Sulfasalazine Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Azulfidine Azulfidine has been approved for the treatment of ulcerative colitis. It works by decreasing the production of certain chemicals in the lining of the colon that lead to inflammation. The medication, which is available by prescription and comes in tablet form, is generally taken three to six times a day. Possible side effects of Azulfidine include nausea or vomiting, headache, and loss of appetite. Azulfidine Medication Information What Is Azulfidine? Azulfidine ® ( sulfasalazine ) is a prescription medication that is used to treat ulcerative colitis . It is also available in a delayed-release tablet form (see Azulfidine EN-Tabs ) , which is approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis . (Click Azulfidine Uses for more information, including possible off-label uses.) Who Makes Azulfidine? It is manufactured by Pfizer, Inc. How Does It Work? Azulfidine belongs to a group of medications called aminosalicylates. It is thought that Azulfidine works by inhibiting the production of inflammatory chemicals in the lining of the colon . The medication decreases the production of prostaglandins and leukotrienes, chemicals that lead to the inflammation caused by ulcerative colitis. When and How to Take Azulfidine General considerations include the following: The medication comes in tablet form. It is generally taken by mouth, usually three to six times per day. Azulfidine can be taken with or without food. If the drug bothers your stomach, try taking it with food. It should be taken at the same times each day to maintain an even level in your blood. For the medication to work properly, it must be taken as prescribed. It will not work if you stop taking it. Azulfidine Article Continues on Next Page > Advertisement List of references (click here) Azulfidine [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer, Inc.;2006 August. Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Electronic orange book: Approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations. FDA Web site. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/cder/ob/. Accessed April 19, 2007. Briggs GG, Freeman RK, Yaffe SJ. Drugs in Pregnancy and Lactation. 7th ed. Philadelphia (PA): Lippincott Williams & Wilkins;2005. National Library of Medicine (US). Drugs and Lactation Database (LactMED). NLM Web site. Available at: http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/sis/htmlgen?LACT. Accessed April 19, 2007. Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD Advertisement Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation Azulfidine Side Effects Azulfidine Uses Azulfidine Dosage Azulfidine Drug Interactions Azulfidine Warnings and Precautions Azulfidine Overdose Azulfidine and Pregnancy Azulfidine and Breastfeeding Generic Azulfidine Referring Pages Articles Health Topics Drugs & Supplements Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t