
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 19:46:26 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Underneath the RADAR - Australian Prescriber Home About us Who we are What we do Editorial executive committe Advisory editorial panel AP Video Contact us Subscription Email alert Write to Australian Prescriber Index Subject index Author index For consumers Comments Articles Patient perspectives Support organisations News Archive Back Issues Media releases Past covers Search The National Prescribing Service (NPS) produces RADAR (Rational
		Assessment of Drugs and Research) to inform people about changes to
		the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS). This is an abridged version
		of a RADAR comment. For the full comment on this drug, go to www.npsradar.org.au . Underneath the RADAR The National Prescribing Service (NPS) produces RADAR (Rational Assessment of Drugs And Research) to inform people about changes to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. Australian Prescriber will be publishing some of the information underlying important changes, but a wider range of topics will appear in RADAR. The RADAR location is www.npsradar.org.au (Aust Prescr 2003;26:131) On the RADAR: moxifloxacin The quinolone antibiotic moxifloxacin has been listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), for the oral treatment of community-acquired pneumonia in adults and children over 12 years old who have immediate hypersensitivity to penicillin. An authority prescription will be required. Underneath the RADAR This new listing extends the number of patients who can be treated with moxifloxacin. The PBS already subsidises intravenous and oral moxifloxacin, but only for patients with severe community-acquired pneumonia who require admission to a high dependency unit or intensive care. The new listing means moxifloxacin can be prescribed in the community for patients who are hypersensitive to penicillin. Comment While moxifloxacin can now be used for less severe cases of pneumonia, it is not the drug of choice for most patients. The Therapeutic Guidelines: Antibiotic recommend that patients treated outside hospital should receive oral amoxycillin with either roxithromycin or doxycycline. In patients who are allergic to penicillin, but do not have immediate hypersensitivity, cefuroxime can be substituted for amoxycillin. Moxifloxacin is therefore reserved for patients with immediate hypersensitivity to penicillin. 1 These patients will have a history of anaphylaxis, urticaria, bronchospasm or angioedema developing within 60 minutes of taking penicillin. While quinolone antibiotics are currently effective in community-acquired pneumonia, bacterial resistance can develop quickly. It is therefore essential that moxifloxacin is only prescribed in the community when other antibiotics are unsuitable. In addition to a clear history of immediate hypersensitivity to penicillin, radiological confirmation of the pneumonia will be required before the drug can be supplied by the PBS. Reference 1. Antibiotic Writing Group. Therapeutic Guidelines: Antibiotic. 12th ed. Melbourne: Therapeutic Guidelines Limited; 2003. RADAR - Rational Assessment of Drugs and Research RADAR is a new service from the National Prescribing Service (NPS). It will provide general practitioners, pharmacists and other health professionals involved in primary care with information about new medicines and changes to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS). RADAR will also provide commentaries on important research that may influence patient management. It will interpret clinical evidence and suggest where a new medicine might fit within the therapeutic armamentarium. As RADAR will have access to information that has previously been unavailable, it will be able to provide the reasoning behind why a medicine has a particular PBS listing. If a medicine requires an authority prescription, RADAR will describe the reasons why this restriction is required. The publication of RADAR will coincide with the quarterly publication of the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits - the 'yellow book' - so it will be available at the same time as new drugs. The NPS is also investigating incorporating RADAR into prescribing and dispensing software so that, in the future, access will be even easier. Register for the service at www.npsradar.org.au and the NPS will deliver each edition of RADAR directly to your computer. Look out for RADAR in the upcoming months. NPS RADAR - keep track of what's out there. Content created: December - 2003 Print article PDF version Leave feedback Email article Home Contact us Free subscription 