
Exercises to Ease Lower Back Pain | GolfLink.com GolfLink Track. Learn. Improve. Follow Us: Home Golf Courses Course Finder Yardage Maps Course Flyovers GolfLink Top 100 Driving Ranges Mini Golf Tournaments Tee Times Golf Travel Top Golf Destinations Resorts Travel Tips Golf Vacations International Golf Golf Real Estate Tips & Lessons Instruction & Techniques Beginners Golf Tips Instructors Golf Fitness Golf Terms Golf Rules Great Shots My Game My Profile Mobile My Yardage Maps My Handicap My Rounds My Stats My Videos My Courses Blog Photos Messages Friends Golf Gear & Reviews Golfers Sign In Register Golf Link Golf Tips & Lessons Golf Exercises Exercises to Ease Lower Back Pain Exercises to Ease Lower Back Pain By Chris Joseph Golfers frequently experience pain in their lower back, often as the result of the twisting motion of swinging a golf club, or from standing and walking for long periods of time. If you are suffering from lower back pain, the good news is that simple stretching exercises may help you feel better. These can be performed in your home or office with no additional equipment. If pain persists or becomes severe, you should seek treatment from a physician. Golf Tee Times Golf Travel Packages Golf Resorts Car Rentals Golf Vacations Golf Retail Stores Flight Deals Discount Golf Clubs Golf Swing Improvement Sponsored Links Knee-to-Chest Stretch Lie flat on your back with your legs extended. Lift both legs and pull them in toward your chest by bending your knees. Wrap your hands around your knees, and hold the position for up to 60 seconds. Return to the starting position, then repeat the exercise nine more times for a total of one to five sets. Curl-Up This exercise is performed in a similar manner to a sit up. Lie on your back with your feet flat on the floor and your knees bent. Fold your arms across your chest and tilt your head toward your chest. Raise your upper body off the floor slightly while squeezing your abdominal muscles together. Maintain the position for up to 10 seconds, then return to the starting position. Try to work up to a total of 15 repetitions. Alternate Leg Extensions Lie face-down on the floor with your legs fully extended and your arms resting on your chin to support your head. Raise your left leg off the floor, being sure to keep your knee from bending. Lower your leg back to the floor, then repeat with your right leg. Continue alternating legs until you have completed 15 repetitions with each leg. Straight Leg Raises Lie on your back with your left leg extended and your right knee bent so that your right foot is resting flat on the floor. Squeeze your abdominal muscles together and raise your left leg off the floor about 12 inches. Hold this position for five seconds, then return to the starting position. Reverse your leg position and perform the exercise again. Continue to alternate legs until you have completed up to 10 repetitions with each leg. Cat and Camel Get down on your hands and knees with your eyes looking at the floor. Raise your back up to a position where you resemble a cat that is arching its back while squeezing your abdominal muscles and buttocks together. Hold this position for five seconds, then return to the starting position. Perform this for up to 10 repetitions. About The Author Chris Joseph is a freelance writer residing in Pennsylvania. He has written hundreds of articles for newspapers and the Internet on a variety of topics, including several on golf for GolfLink.com. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in marketing from York College of Pennsylvania. Not a Member? Join Now - It's FREE! Member Sign In Email Address Password Keep me logged in Forgot your password? Nearby Tee Time HOT Deals ! Thursday, Mar 01 to Tuesday, Mar 06 Related Articles Exercise to Relieve Lower Back Pain Many golfers suffer from lower back pain, in large part due the twistin... What Are Some Exercises for Arthritis in the Knees? Arthritis in the knees occurs because wear and tear reduces cartilage t... Lower Back Exercises & Stretches Keeping the lower back limber and free of pain is a challenge for any g... Exercises to Avoid Back Pain Few activities depend on the back more than golf. The rotation of the b... Lower Back Muscle Exercises A number of golfers report playing with lower back pain at some point. ... View All Related Articles Video of the Day Pine Needle Lies By John Elliott Play a shot on pine needles two ways depending on where the flag is, if you have room to roll it play it like a chip but if the ... Watch the Video Now Article of the Day Rotator Cuff Exercises for a Torn Rotator Cup Exercise is always the first option when the muscles around the rotator cuff are injured or torn... Read full article Top Blog Post Bay Hill Proves Tough Test Arnold Palmer is known to prefer a thorough test of golf.
As host of the invitational that bears his name, Palmer, like Jack Nicklaus at the Memorial, is the guiding influence over the course set up at Bay Hill and he wasn’t disappointed in giving players a fair dose of what the average hack sees ... More Advertise † About Us † FAQ † Privacy Policy † Terms of Use † Contact GolfLink † Ad Choices Site Map Copyright © 1996-2012, Demand Media. All rights reserved. † Requires Javascript GolfLink™ is a trademark or registered trademark of Dem