Content-Type: text/html
Set-Cookie: Crumb=; expires=Sat, 31-Mar-2012 04:00:00 GMT; path=/
Cache-control: no-cache

Female Urology Login Login error message Username: Password: Forgot your password? Register To create an account to access your personal My Account OR Dashboard, click REGISTER below. New Provider Enrollment To access on-line enrollment / new provider package, click ENROLL below. Login  |  Register Close Panel About Us | Contact Us | Employment HOME PATIENTS Find a Provider I want to... Additional Info Doctor Primary Care Midwife Meet our New Doctors Request An Appointment Pay My Bill Renew A Prescription Discuss Lab/Test Result Email My Doctor Print Forms Rate This Website Health Information Library Maps & Directions Insurance Plans Accepted Find a Practice Location Billing Information Events Clinical Trials FAQS Top Doctors Ask the Experts MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS For Referring Providers I want to... Additional Info Physician Directory Referral Guides SBUMC Transfer Center Continuing Medical Education Rate This Website Clinical Trials Health Information Library CLINICAL SERVICES Departments Specialty Centers Anesthesiology Dermatology Emergency Medicine Family Medicine Internal Medicine Neurological Surgery Neurology Obstetrics & Gynecology Ophthalmology Orthopedics Pathology Pediatrics Preventive Medicine Psychiatry Radiation Oncology Radiology Surgery Urology Breast Care Center Heart Center Imaging Center Lung Cancer Evaluation Center Men's Health Center Orthopedics Center Pain Management Center Pediatric MS Center Pregnancy Center Senior Health Center Vein Center Women's Health Center HEALTH INFORMATION Videos Ask the Experts Health Information Library Symptom Navigator In Depth Reports Complementary & Alternative Medicine Men's Health Center Women's Health Center Senior Health Center Orthopedics Center Pregnancy Center OUR INSURERS Aetna Cigna Empire Blue Cross Oxford United Empire United Healthcare More Plans.... NEWS News/Press Releases Newsletters Top Doctors Events Ask the Experts UNIVERSITY LINKS SBUMC School of Medicine Stony Brook University Employment Giving Home > Female Urology Female Urology Female Urology The subspecialty of female urology is concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of urinary tract disorders most prevalent in females. These include urinary incontinence and pelvic floor prolapse, voiding dysfunction, recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI), urethral syndrome and interstitial cystitis (IC). Expert evaluation of these conditions includes a complete history and physical exam, as well as additional bladder studies such as Aerodynamics (i.e. bladder function test), imaging studies (i.e. CT Scan and/or MRI), and cystoscopy. The Department of Urology at Stony Brook offers comprehensive evaluation and treatment for all female urologic disorders. An explanation of each disorders is provided in the following paragraphs. What is incontinence? Incontinence is the involuntary loss of urine. It is further defined as either stress (e.g. leakage with straining, coughing, or sneezing), urge, mixed, overflow, functional or reflex incontinence. It can be embarrassing, uncomfortable, and can limit activities required in daily life.  There are various options available for treatment of urinary incontinence. Current therapies include dietary changes, scheduled voiding, bladder retraining, pelvic muscle exercises, biofeedback, electrical stimulation therapy, medication, periurethral bulking agents (e.g. collagen implants) and minimally invasive surgery (e.g. open abdominal anterior urethropexy, or sling can be done completely vaginally). What is voiding dysfunction? Voiding dysfunction can affect individuals in different ways. The main symptoms are urinary frequency, urgency, painful urination and/or incomplete bladder emptying. Treatment is aimed at decreasing or eliminating symptoms, and may involve medication or pelvic floor relaxation exercises. 
What is a recurrent urinary tract infection?
Recurrent urinary tract infections (UTI) may be generally defined as three or more infections within one year. This may be idiopathic (i.e. no obvious cause) or related to a urologic disorder such as stones, tumor, ineffective bladder emptying or reflux (when urine flows back to the kidney).  It is important to identify the cause of recurrent infections to ensure proper antibiotic therapy in order to break the cycle of infection. What is interstitial cystitis? Interstitial cystitis (IC) is a urologic syndrome characterized by excessive urinary urgency, frequency, nocturia (i.e. nighttime urination) and pain in the lower abdomen and/or perineum. It can occur at any age. However, the median age at diagnosis is between 42 and 46 years. The cause of IC is unclear. It is believed to be related to irregularities in the bladder lining and/or an allergic/immune response. IC can severely affect an individual's quality of life. Promising developments in the treatment of IC include medications, such as Elmiron, which work to restore the normal function of the bladder lining. Other drugs, with calming effects on the bladder, may also be helpful. Bladder instillations with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) have achieved variable success. Hydrodistention of the bladder under anesthesia is a common therapeutic and diagnostic procedure. In the most severe cases, surgery including denervation, urinary diversion, and augmentation cytoplasty may be performed. Our specialists at Stony Brook Urology offer all evaluation and treatment options currently available. What is urethral syndrome? Urethral syndrome is a condition that often exists as a component of interstitial cystitis. It is a condition that causes pain in the urethra during urination or independent of urination. Treatment may include oral medication, or local estrogen replacement therapy. Department of Urology Physicians treating these conditions: Ruth Ann Miles, MD Home | Find a Doctor | Physician Directory | Departments | Specialty Centers | Insurers | News | FAQ | Employment | Disclaimer | Sitemap © Stony Brook University Physicians             
		 Phone: 631-444-3627 - PO Box 1554 Stony Brook, NY 11790-0988             
		Serving Suffolk & Nassau County, Long Island, NY Important Note: The Stony Brook University Physicians website is primarily an informational and educational resource.  
		It should not be used in place of medical advice and recommendations you receive from your health care provider.  
		If you have, or suspect that you have a medical problem or condition, please seek the advice of your 
		health care provider. Stony Brook University Physicians provides marketing advice and consultation to the Stony Brook University Faculty.  It does not provide medical care directly or indirectly nor does it oversee, direct, manage or supervise the medical care provided by any of the individual Practices.  The individual Practices are responsible for the medical care each Practice provides to its patients.  Please note that the Practices listed below are separate University Faculty Practice Corporations (UFPCs). Neurology Associates of Stony Brook New York Spine and Brain Surgery Stony Brook Anaesthesiology Stony Brook Children's Service Stony Brook Dermatology Associates Stony Brook Emergency Physicians Stony Brook Family Medical Group Stony Brook Internists Stony Brook Ophthalmology Stony Brook Orthopaedic Associates Stony Brook Pathologists Stony Brook Preventive Medicine Services Stony Brook Psychiatric Associates Stony Brook Radiation Oncology Stony Brook Radiology Stony Brook Surgical Associates Stony Br