
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 00:52:28 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gestational Diabetes - All About Diabetes Registerd User? » Author Login » Staff Login Why Submit? Terms of Service Marketing Article Library Travel Article Library Religion Article Library Money Article Library.com Article Marketing Network DIY Article Library Relationship Article Library Sports Article Library.com Parenting Article Library Liver Cleanse for Weight Loss CLICK FOR SPECIAL REMEDY REPORTS... Acid Reflux & Heartburn | ADHD/ADD | Diabetes Reversal | Ed / Impotence | Gallstone | Gout | Graves' Disease | Herpes Relief | High Bood Pressure | Kidney Stones | Lyme Disease | Scabies | Urinary Tract Infection Gestational Diabetes - All About Diabetes By: alien Gestational diabetes is a serious health issue for women who are pregnant. Even though gestational diabetes only affects an estimated 4%-7% of pregnant women, it is something to be concerned about. Doctors really are not sure what causes gestational diabetes, and the closest pediatricians can determine involves the placenta. The hormones in the placenta are responsible for the baby’s development. However, should these hormones become blocked, the mothers body is deprived of the injected insulin it needs. This is scientifically called "insulin resistance." This hormonal blockage makes it difficult for the mothers body to use the insulin that is being injected in her. Why would insulin need to be injected? As a result of gestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes occurs when the mothers body is no longer able to make the insulin that is required for her pregnancy. This shortage of insulin prevents glucose from leaving the blood. Glucose must leave the blood in order to convert to the necessary amount of energy required by the mother and her baby. Should the glucose build up in the blood to a high level, hyperglycemia will occur. What are the side effects for the baby when hypoglycemia occurs? It depends on when the mother has the ailment. If she is in her late trimester, when the baby’s body has already been formed, she can consider herself and her baby very lucky. At this late stage, it is unlikely that the baby will suffer any kind of birth defect whatsoever. However, should she have gestational diabetes when the pregnancy is less than six months old, the baby may very well have problems when it comes to body formation. This is because the mothers pancreas must function twice as hard in order to produce the needed insulin for her and the baby. When glucose gets stuck in the blood, then other nutrients are also stuck. Extra blood glucose now seeps into the placenta. The effects of gestational diabetes will now cause the baby to have high blood glucose levels, which will slowly become fat. The results of this added fat are referred to as "Macrosomia," or what is known to be an overly fat baby. As a result of the additional insulin being created by the baby’s pancreas, a newborn will tend to have a really low blood glucose level at birth. This condition puts the baby at a higher risk when it comes to potential breathing problems. These babies are prone to obesity, and their mothers will most likely be affected by type 2 diabetes. Treatment for this condition must begin immediately after the problem is discovered. Successful treatment for gestational diabetes will result in a lowering of blood glucose down to normal levels. Treatment consists of a special diet containing just the right amount of sugar, along with a regular exercise program whenever possible. Daily testing of blood glucose, and regular insulin injections are also necessary. Your doctor should test you for gestational diabetes at around 26 weeks of pregnancy. For most women, this will never be an issue, but for others who do get it, by following your doctor's advice and following a special diet, you shouldn't have any further difficulty. Alien writes for Diabetes Mellitus . He also writes for Diabetes diet and Diabetes causes Article Source: http://www.wellnessarticlelibrary.com Please Rate this Article 5 out of 5 4 out of 5 3 out of 5 2 out of 5 1 out of 5 Not yet Rated Click the XML Icon Above to Receive - diabetes Articles Via RSS! Additional Articles From - Home | Diseases-conditions | - Diabetes Helpful Tips on Recognizing Warning Signs for Type 2 Diabetes - By : brent011 Warning Signs for Type 2 Diabetes - By : brent01 How to Deal with Diabetes to Enjoy Healthy Aging - By : salemhood Diabetes, Blood Glucose Monitoring & You - By : Duchess Glucose meter or Glucometer - By : Ava Dylan The Type 2 Diabetes Epidemic and Our Own Personal Responsibilities - By : Warren Tibbotts What is Pre-Diabetes or Insulin Resistance? - By : Bob Held Are You Becoming a Diabetic? - By : fin2000 Glucose Level Control and Diabetes Treatment - By : dr. sarkozy mikal Herbal Remedies for Diabetic Heart Patient and Better Control of Blood Glucose Levels - By : dr. sarkozy mikal Related Articles: Pregnancy Tips For Diabetes Fat Loss Nutrition - The Big Fat Lies How Health Savings Accounts Reduce Medical Expenses And Help You Avoid Metabolic Syndrome Diabetes And Your Child's School The Jelly Bean Study When Is The Best Time To Exercise…For People With Diabetes? Diabetes And Your Child's School Breastfeeding And Diabetes Is There A Cure For Diabetes During Pregnancy? Cinnamon and diabetes: a controversial link Print This Article Post Comment Add To Favorites Email to Friends Ezine Ready Submit Articles Top Authors Most Popular Articles Submission Guidelines Ezine Notifications Article RSS Feeds Home Site Map Tell Your Friends! About Us Link to Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Advertising Media-Kit OMG-Direct Classifieds BOOKMARK & SHARE... Wellness Article Library™ Blog the latest information on how to maximize your health & wellness
with Wellness Article Library(tm)! Foundation the Immune Booster The Jet-Lag Drag Liver Cleanse for Weight Loss Life's a Beach 125 CLICK HERE NOW FOR FREE DETAILS ON THE NEWEST AND MOST PROFITABLE WELLNESS AFFILIATE PROGRAM FEATURING LIFETIME COMMISSIONS AND THE HIGHEST RE-ORDER RATE IN THE INDUSTRY . DISCLOSURE--NOTICE OF AFFILIATE/ADVERTISER STATUS : The owner of this website is an affiliate/advertiser for providers of products and/or services listed on this website and may receive compensation if you purchase those products and/or services.  All referrals are made in good faith for sources believed to be credible and that offer good value. In all cases the decision to purchase, or not to purchase, should be made after performing your own due-diligence on the efficacy and suitability of the product or service being offered. By clicking on product/service links on this website you agree to hold this website's owners harmless in the event the product/service is found to be unsuitable for any reason. All claims for refunds must be made to the supplier/vendor of any product/service you purchase from any link on this site.. © 2006-2011 Wellness Article Library™ All rights protected. Use of our free service is protected by our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service An operating unit of Online Marketing Group Public Disclaimer For All Users : Your use of this resource is your agreement not to hold WellnessArticleLibrary.com™ liable for the accuracy of any article on the site or on any partner sites and you agree to Hold Harmless WellnessArticleLibrary.com™, its owners, webmasters, internet hosts, etc. from any action arising from the publication of any article, or the content therein. WellnessArticleLibrary.com™ is simply a hub for authors and publishers to meet and for end-users to benefit from the content included here. WellnessArticleLibrary.com™ does not endorse any author, website, service, cause, or product mentioned in any articles. Articles published by WellnessArticleLibrary.com™ are not meant to be used for legal, medical, or any other type of advice. All articles are for informational and entertainment purposes only and are fully protected under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution and all applicable copyright laws. Content and opinions in the articles on this site are the sole responsibility of the author. No article on this site purports to offer medical advise or makes any claims to any cure, treatment, or remediation of any disease or health condition. The articles on this site have not been reviewed or approved by the FDA. Due diligence should always be practiced by the reader and, in all cases, the reader is advised to seek assistance from a licensed professional when dealing with any diseases, ailments, 