
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1
X-Powered-By: Servlet/2.4 JSP/2.0
Vary: Accept-Encoding

PureLyte for Adults - Lemon-Lime ARE YOU A HEALTH-CARE PROFESSIONAL? Sign In: Password: Remember Me Create Account MY CART (0) HELP MY ACCOUNT LOGIN GO SEARCH Aging Antioxidants / Flavonoids Bariatric Support Circulatory Support Cognitive Support Detoxification Support Endocrine Support Essential Fatty Acids Gastrointestinal Support Immune Support Men's Health Minerals Mood / Sleep Support Multiples Musculoskeletal Support Neurological Support Amino Acids / Proteins Vitamins Women's Health Thorne Organics Thorne Vet Commitment to Purity Why Capsules? Quality Ingredients Supplement Facts TGA Certification GMPs & SOPs In-House Laboratory Testing Sharing Your Commitment Education and Support Benefits and Advantages Alternative Medicine Review Breaking News My Account Our Mission Career Opportunities Earning Experts' Trust Press Releases Contact Us Previous Page PureLyte is back...and it's better! We've reformulated PureLyte for adults: Each scoop makes 16 ounces of our premium electrolyte supplement. Now with 40 mg magnesium per serving No sucralose. Sweetened with natural stevia extract Now contains 90 - 16 oz. servings per bottle (increased from 60 - 8 oz. servings) Replace Electrolytes Typically Lost in Sweat* Adults needing electrolyte replacement often don't have much of a choice. They end up using products designed for children or resort to so-called sports drinks, which usually contain high-fructose corn syrup, artificial flavors, and artificial colors. PureLyte for Adults is an advanced electrolyte replacement formula without sugars, calories, or caffeine.* The PureLyte powder formula contains vitamins and minerals that, when mixed with pure water or sparkling water, makes a tasty electrolyte supplement.* Replenish Electrolytes with PureLyte for Adults* Electrolyte loss can occur in adults from exercise, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and sun exposure. Electrolyte replacement is important during illness, and can help you feel better quicker.* Pure water can help, but doesn't replace lost nutrients. Electrolytes Help Muscle Recovery After Exercise* Electrolytes are lost in sweat, which can result in muscle cramping and fatigue.* Most active adults rehydrate with plain water or end up drinking trendy, high-carbohydrate sports drinks that commonly contain artificial colors and flavors. Carbohydrates in sports drinks can also slow the rate of stomach emptying. PureLyte for Adults contains no carbohydrates, which decreases this potential and leads to rapid absorption that delivers needed electrolytes to muscle cells.* PureLyte for Adults PureLyte for Adults contains the electrolytes typically lost with sweat (sodium, potassium, chloride) along with other vitamins and minerals, including vitamin C, the active forms of B-vitamins (B2, B6, B12, and folate) chromium (easily-absorbed chromium chelidamate), magnesium (as magnesium citrate), and calcium (as calcium citrate). PureLyte for Adults is lightly sweetened with a natural stevia extract, so there are no calories. Plus, PureLyte for Adults comes in a tasty lemon-lime flavor and is not too sweet or salty. It is easy to use, easy to store, and has a two-year shelf life. Click here to order PureLyte for Adults – Lemon-Lime Also see PureLyte Pediatric - Lemon-Lime and PureLyte Pediatric - Orange – a new choice in electrolyte replacement for children. CRUCERA-SGS IS HERE! An advanced antioxidant, containing sulforaphane glucosinolate from broccoli seed extract. Discovered by researchers at Johns Hopkins Medical School, SGS supports numerous biochemical pathways. Click above for more information. MERIVA-500 IS HERE! Thorne is proud to introduce Meriva-500, with 500 mg per capsule of the highly bioavailable Meriva curcumin phytosome in immediate release form. Click above to learn more. 5-MTHF - Now Available in 5 mg! Support neurotransmitter and cardiovascular function with 5-MTHF, the active, tissue-ready form of folate.* Now in 5 mg capsules for easier supplementation. Click above for more information. Community Join our e-newsletter! To receive information on new products, news, and events. Customer Service Contact Us Practitioners My Account Breaking News Education & Support Helpful Links Alternative Medicine Review Press Releases FAQs Supplement Facts Home | Privacy | Terms & Conditions | My Account | Contact Us | Careers ©2011 Thorne Research Inc. All Rights Reserved. *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.  This product is no