
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 19:43:05 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Content-Language: en-US
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

Legionellosis - Mississippi State Department of Health NEWS & EVENTS CALENDARS PUBLICATIONS HEALTH TOOLKITS INFORMATION DESK SEARCH HOME » Home Administrative Disease Control EMS EMSC Family and Adults News & Events Other Health Programs Preventive Health Publications Records & Statistics Regulation & Licensure Services & Programs Trauma System Women and Children Disease Control Reportable Diseases Blastomycosis Campylobacteriosis Chancroid Chlamydia Cholera Cryptosporidiosis Dengue Diphtheria Gonorrhea Hepatitis Herpes Histoplasmosis HIV/AIDS Legionellosis Leprosy Listeriosis Malaria Measles Meningococcal Disease Mumps Pertussis (Whooping Cough) Polio Rabies Shigellosis Syphilis Trichinosis TSE Tuberculosis Typhoid Fever Yellow Fever Legionellosis Facts At a Glance Links to More Information Contact LEGIONELLOSIS (Legionnaire's Disease) About the Disease Legionellosis is a severe disease characterized by pneumonia, dry cough and muscle pain. Caused by bacteria found in water sources in the environment, there are two forms of the disease: Pontiac fever, a mild respiratory infection; and Legionnaires' disease, a very serious form of pneumonia. Legionnaires' disease acquired its name in 1976, after an outbreak of severe pneumonia spread among individuals attending an American Legion convention in Philadelphia. AT A GLANCE What it is : Legionellosis is a lung infection caused by the bacterium Legionella pneumophilia . In its mild form, it is called Pontiac fever. The more serious form of legionellosis is called Legionnaires' disease. Transmission : The bacteria live best in warm, stagnant water, and so the disease is spread through water. People get legionellosis by inhaling water mist containing the bacteria. Infections have been traced to mist-producing devices, such as certain air-conditioning systems and water heaters. Legionellosis outbreaks have been traced the whirlpools, showers, humidifiers, decorative spraying fountains and more. Symptoms : For Pontiac fever, the symptoms include fever and muscle aches, but not pneumonia. People with this form of legionellosis usually recover in 2 to 5 days. Symptoms of Legionnaires' disease include fever, chills and a cough, which may be dry or productive. Sometimes, patients will have muscle aches, headache, general tiredness, loss of appetite and diarrhea. Chest X-rays will show pneumonia. Prevention : Cleaning and properly maintaining pools, air-conditioning units, and other sources of water helps eliminate areas where the bacteria can grow. Treatment : Pontiac fever requires no specific treatment. People with Legionnaires' disease are treated with antibiotics, usually erythromycin. ^ Top LINKS Other web sites Centers for Disease Control and Prevention MEDLINEplus , a service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine and the National Institutes of Health Occupational Safety and Health Administration ^ Top CONTACT Find out more You can also contact your local health office , or call our Health Info Hotline at 1-866-HLTHY4U (1-866-458-4948). 