Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 26 Jan 2012 08:43:14 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "40c8e38a6dccc1:2edc"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 07:58:02 GMT
Connection: close

Aloe Vera juice and supplement health benefit and side effects Aloe Vera 
Gel and Juice medical uses and review of published studies by Ray 
Sahelian, M.D. information and health benefit Aloe vera is actually a common plant in many 
homes. A succulent perennial plant belonging to the lily family, the plant 
grows wild on the African continent. There are hundreds of species. The 
plant is often separated into two basic parts which are the gel and the 
latex. The gel is a clear jelly-like substance obtained from the inner 
portion of the leaves. Aloe latex, commonly referred to as the juice, is a 
bitter yellow exudate that happens to be just beneath the outer skin of 
the leaves and has laxative properties. buy Aloe Verite
Source Naturals Aloe Verite organic, whole leaf aloe vera tablets offer the benefits of 
premium juice in powerfully concentrated, easy to swallow 
tablets. Each Aloe Verite tablet contains a potent 200:1 concentrate of 
organic, whole-leaf, cold processed powder. Source Naturals Aloe 
Verite tablets are made from freshly extracted juice, which is vacuum 
processed at low temperatures to remove excess water. This method is 
superior to the heat-processing method used by most companies, because 
heat can destroy the active constituents. Click here to buy Aloe Vera product Supplement Facts: Aloe Vera Concentrate (200:1) - 600 mg Suggested Use: 1 to 3 aloe vera tablets. Each tablet contains the 
approximate equivalent of 1.33 fluid ounces of fresh juice. Little research is available in humans 
regarding long term use. Therefore, just to be on the safe side, you 
may consider using an internal aloe vera product at most 4 days a week and 
it may be a good idea to take at least a week off each month. We prefer 
being cautious until more research is done in humans. Benefit For centuries, the gel of the aloe 
vera plant has been of benefit as a soothing topical remedy for minor burns and 
wounds. There have been many claims regarding its health benefit, but the one 
that most people agree is that, 
when ingested internally, it can promote bowel function and this could help certain 
people if they have difficulty with passing their stools and hence it could be beneficial in 
certain cases of constipation. The leaf extract is used as a laxative while the 
gel has mucopolysacharides. Anti-inflammatory Antilipoxygenase activity and the trace elements 
content of Aloe vera in relation to the therapeutic effect Ceska Slov Farm. 2005. The results of contemporary research on animal models indicate that the 
extracts have an antiinflammatory property. Thank you for your website. It is refreshing to find 
one that offers unbiased medical information about the supplements that are 
available. I have seen in several places that it has anti-inflammatory properties when 
ingested, but I haven't been able to find out exactly where in the body these 
properties provide relief. Is it only in the stomach and/or intestines, or is 
the effect all around the body? The reason I'm asking is because I have IBS and 
have found that over-the-counter anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen 
exacerbate my tendency toward constipation, and if aloe vera provides 
anti-inflammation, it could really be the perfect solution for the two problems. Most of the studies with have focused on the 
gastrointestinal system and skin. It appears that components in aloe vera have 
anti-inflammatory properties, and most likely these are systemic meaning that 
they would have an influence on various parts of the body. Antioxidant Aloe improves the absorption of both vitamins C and E. Antioxidant effect of Aloe vera gel extract in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats. Pharmacol Rep. 2005. Oral administration of aloe vera gel extract at a concentration of 300 
mg/kg to diabetic rats significantly decreased the levels of blood 
glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin and increased hemoglobin. The increased 
levels of lipid peroxidation and hydroperoxides in tissues of diabetic 
rats were reverted back to near normal levels after the treatment with gel 
extract. The extract treatment also resulted in a significant increase in 
reduced glutathione, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione 
peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase in the liver and kidney of 
diabetic rats. Blood 
sugar and diabetes Oral administration of aloe vera gel extract to diabetic rats for a period of 
three weeks resulted in a significant reduction in fasting blood glucose, 
hepatic transaminases (aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase), 
plasma and tissue (liver and kidney) cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty 
acids and phospholipids and a significant improvement in plasma insulin. In 
addition, the decreased plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol 
and increased plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein-and very low-density 
lipoprotein-cholesterol in diabetic rats were restored to near normal levels 
following treatment with the extract. Effect of a Polyphenol-Rich Extract from Aloe vera Gel 
on Experimentally Induced Insulin Resistance in Mice. Am J Chin Med. 2007. We investigated the effect of an extract from aloe vera gel containing a high 
concentration of polyphenols on experimentally induced insulin resistance in 
mice. A polyphenol-rich extract (350 mg/kg) with known concentrations of aloin and aloe-emodin was administered orally for a period of 4 
weeks to insulin resistant ICR mice. Pioglitazone and bi-distilled 
water were used as positive and negative controls respectively. Results showed 
that the polyphenol-rich extract was able to decrease both body 
weight and blood glucose levels and to protect animals. Burns Aloe vera is popular as a gel or salve for those with burns. Studies regarding 
the benefit of aloe vera’ as a burn treatment have produced conflicting 
findings. Cancer treatment Biotherapy with the pineal immunomodulating 
hormone melatonin versus melatonin plus aloe vera in untreatable advanced 
solid neoplasms. Nat Immun. 1998. We 
have carried out a clinical study to evaluate whether the concomitant 
administration of aloe may enhance the therapeutic results of melatonin in 
patients with advanced solid tumors for whom no effective standard 
anticancer therapies are available. The study included 50 patients 
suffering from lung cancer, gastrointestinal tract tumors, breast cancer 
or brain glioblastoma, who were treated with melatonin alone (20 mg/day orally 
in the dark period) or MLT plus Aloe vera tincture (1 ml twice/day). A 
partial response (PR) was achieved in 2/24 patients treated with MLT plus 
aloe vera and in none of the patients treated with melatonin alone. Stable disease 
(SD) was achieved in 12/24 and in 7/26 patients treated with melatonin plus aloe 
or melatonin alone, respectively. The percentage of nonprogressing 
patients was significantly higher in the group treated with 
melatonin 
plus aloe vera than in the melatonin group. The percent 
1-year survival was significantly higher in patients treated with 
the combination. Both treatments were well tolerated. Gastrointestinal 
system Aloe vera juice has been tested in a number of conditions including inflammatory 
bowel disease . Some people find aloe vera helps them with their GERD symptoms. Aloe vera could be of benefit in certain instances of 
gastric mucosal healing. In a mouse study, administration of 20% acetic acid 
induced gastric inflammation, increased leukocyte adherence in postcapillary 
venules and TNF-alpha levels and reduced IL-10 level. Treatment 
reduced leukocyte adherence and TNF-alpha levels, elevated IL-10 level and 
promoted gastric ulcer healing. GERD I was happy to discover 
aloe juice for gastroesophageal reflux. It is effective for me, almost as much as Prilosec. Oral lichen planus The efficacy of aloe vera gel in the treatment of oral lichen planus: a 
randomized controlled trial. Br J Dermatol. 2007. Division of Dermatology, Srinagarind Hospital Medical School, Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen University, 
Khon Kaen, Thailand. Fifty-four patients were randomized into two groups to 
receive aloe vera gel or placebo for 8 weeks. Fifty-four consecutive patients 
(34 women and 20 men) participated in the study. We found erosive and ulcerative 
lesions in 83% and 17%, respectively. The most common site of oral lichen planus 
was the lower lip. Twenty-two of 27 patients treated with aloe vera (81%) had a 
good response after 8 weeks of treatment, while one of 27 placebo-treated 
patients (4%) had a similar response. Aloe vera gel is statistically 
significantly more effective than placebo in inducing clinical and 
symptomatological improvement. Therefore, the gel 
can be considered a safe alternative treatment for patients with oral lichen 
planus. Psoriasis We are not aware of research done with aloe vera juice and psoriasis, however 
there is one research study we found with gel and 
psoriasis and the benefits appeared to be modest. Radiation treatment A Phase III study on the efficacy of topical aloe 
vera gel on irradiated breast tissue. Cancer Nurs. 2002. The aim of the study was to see if topical aloe vera gel would be 
beneficial in reducing the identified skin side-effects of radiation 
therapy, including erythema, pain, itching, dry desquamation, and moist 
desquamation, when compared with aqueous cream. A Phase III study 
was conducted involving 225 patients with breast cancer after lumpectomy 
or partial mastectomy, who required a course of radiation therapy using 
tangential fields. Patients were randomized to either topical aloe vera 
gel or topical aqueous cream to be applied 3 times per day throughout and for 2 
weeks after completion of radiation treatment. In this study, aloe vera gel did not significantly reduce 
radiation-induced skin side effects. Aqueous cream was useful in reducing 
dry desquamation and pain related to radiation therapy. Phase II double-blind randomized study comparing 
oral aloe vera versus placebo to prevent radiation-related mucositis in 
patients with head-and-neck neoplasms. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2004. In a single-institution, double-blind, prospective, randomized trial, 
we determined whether oral aloe vera gel can reduce radiation-induced 
mucositis in head-and-neck cancer patients. We randomized 58 head-and-neck 
cancer patients between oral aloe vera and placebo. Oral aloe vera did not improve tolerance to head-and-neck 
radiotherapy, decrease mucositis, reduce soreness, or otherwise improve 
patient well-being. Shingles Does aloe vera cream applied on the skin 
reduce the pain from shingles ? We have seen this mentioned on some websites, but we have not seen 
any studies regarding the use of cream applied on 
the skin for shingles pain relief. Spinal stenosis My son suffers from Crohn's Disease and I have already 
undergone surgery for spinal stenosis. We both succumbed to the Mannatech fairy 
tale and it was costly ( 6 months of glyconutrients ) Now there is a Dr. Webber 
in Oregon who is pedaling aloe vera as a way to regenerate the nerves in my 
spinal column. Does it take care of these problems? We are not aware of extensive human studies with aloe vera in regards to 
Crohn's disease or spinal stenosis. It may have some benefit in 
inflammatory bowel disease. Sunburn Aloe vera cream appears to offer no sunburn or 
suntan protection and no efficacy in sunburn treatment. Ulcerative colitis Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trial of oral aloe vera gel for active ulcerative colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004. Aloe vera has been claimed to have anti-inflammatory effects and, 
despite a lack of evidence of its therapeutic efficacy, is widely used by 
patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Forty-four evaluable hospital out-patients were randomly given oral aloe vera gel or 
placebo, 100 mL twice daily for 4 weeks, in a 2 : 1 ratio. Oral aloe vera taken for 4 weeks produced 
a clinical response more often than placebo; it also reduced the 
histological disease activity and appeared to be safe. Vision I've 
heard there is some correlation between aloe vera and vision, as well as emphysema. Would you know if this is fact or fiction? I have personally not taken an aloe vera supplement yet so I 
don't know if vision if improved by using it and we are not aware of research 
regarding aloe vera use and emphysema or COPD . There are many 
supplements that are known to improve eyesight . Weight loss Aloe vera is sometimes found in herbal weight loss products, but its 
effectiveness for this purpose in humans is not clear.
If you have an interest in losing weight, consider an appetite suppression product 
that I have formulated called
Diet Rx. See weight loss pill for supplements that could help. Availability over the counter Aloe vera products are sold for internal use in the form of aloe vera juice, gel, 
and aloe vera drink. You can also find aloe vera in tablet and capsule form. Aloe 
vera is sold also for topical use to apply on skin in the form of cream, spray, 
and lotion. Sometimes the terms "gel" and "juice" are not clearly 
defined by makers of aloe vera and often are confused by consumers. Then there 
is the term aloe vera drink which is also confusing. It is quite possible that 
the aloe vera gel and the aloe vera juice can be mixed in many aloe vera 
products. Aloe Vera product use suggestions Until more research is done on the internal use of aloe vera products, it 
would be best to take breaks from the use of aloe vera gel or juice. Sometimes a 
plant can provide health benefits if ingested occasionally but could prove to be 
toxic if overused. I don't know if this is the case with aloe vera, but to be on 
the safe side take at least 2 days off a week and one week off each month. It 
would be helpful to have human research with aloe vera tablets or juice to 
determine whether this plant has any long term beneficial effects on blood 
sugar, blood lipids, and whether aloe vera has antiinflammatory properties. Skin Aloe vera is a natural product that is frequently used in soothing skin care 
products such as lotions for use after excessive sun exposure. It appears that 
aloe vera could be helpful for this purpose. Investigation of the Anti-Inflammatory Potential of 
Aloe vera Gel (97%) in the Ultraviolet Erythema Test. Skin Pharmacol Physiol. 2008. We tested the anti-inflammatory potential of a highly concentrated Aloe vera gel 
in the UV erythema test in vivo. Forty volunteers with skin types II and III 
were included. Test areas on the back were irradiated with the 1.5-fold minimal 
erythema dose of UVB. Subsequently, the test areas were treated occlusively on 2 
subsequent days with Aloe vera gel (97.5%), the positive controls (0.25% 
prednicarbate, 1% hydrocortisone in placebo gel and 1% hydrocortisone cream) and 
a placebo gel. Aloe vera gel significantly reduced UV-induced erythema after 48 
h, being superior to 1% hydrocortisone in placebo gel. In contrast, 1% 
hydrocortisone in cream was more efficient than Aloe vera gel. In this study 
after 48 h the Aloe vera gel displayed some anti-inflammatory effects superior 
to those of 1% hydrocortisone in placebo gel. The Aloe vera gel tested here 
might be useful in the topical treatment of inflammatory skin conditions such as 
UV-induced erythema. What are some of the substances 
in it? There are many compounds in aloe vera including glucomannans or pectic 
acid, plus various other organic and inorganic compounds. Glucans have been 
isolated. Veracylglucan B demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory and anti-proliferative 
effects, while Veracylglucan C exhibited significant cell proliferative and 
anti-inflammatory activities. From another research source: The dried flowers from Aloe vera Burm (Aloe barbadensis) have chlorogenic, caffeic, 
5-P-coumaroylquinic, caffeoylshikimic, 5-feruloylquinic, 
5-P-CIS-coumaroylquinic, P-coumaric and ferulic acid as well as luteolin, 
apigenin, quercetin, kaempferol, isoorientin, isovitexin and their 
7-O-glucosides, saponarin and lutonarin. Anthranoids in the flower extract 
include aloe-emodin as well as the glycosylchromone aloeresin B. Aloin is the 
precursor to aloe-emodin. From another source: aloe vera leaf gel has various phenolic acids 
/ polyphenols, phytosterols, fatty acids, indoles, alkanes, pyrimidines, 
alkaloids, organic acids, aldehydes, dicarboxylic acids, ketones, and alcohols. 
Due to the presence of the antioxidant polyphenols, indoles, and alkaloids, the 
Aloe ferox leaf gel shows antioxidant capacity. Does the aloe vera supplement product contain Aloin and Emodin or whether these physically 
irritating substances / laxatives are removed in the process of production. Thisproduct is made Source Naturals and they would 
know more about the exact content of aloin and emodin. Aloe vera, side effect, 
safety, risks, danger and 
caution The primary class of compounds responsible for aloe-induced 
toxicity are anthraquinones. One of these, aloe-emodin, has been 
extensively investigated for apoptosis inducing effects. Aloin is the 
precursor to aloe-emodin. There have been rare cases of serious aloe vera side effects 
including hepatitis. Henoch-Schonlein purpura associated with 
aloe vera administration. Eur J Intern Med. 2005. Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a systemic vasculitis that occurs 
most often in children and rarely follows exposure to drugs or other 
environmental factors. Aloe is one of the most widely used traditional 
remedies and has been associated with gastrointestinal and renal 
complications. We report a case of  Henoch-Schonlein purpura in an adult patient who had 
previously received the herb Aloe vera. Oral aloe vera induced hepatitis. Ann Pharmacother. 2007. Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Des Moines, IA, USA. To report a case of possible oral aloe vera induced hepatitis. A 
73-year-old female was admitted to the hospital for acute hepatitis. 
Extensive laboratory testing did not reveal the cause of the patient's 
disease. She was asked multiple times whether she was taking any home 
medications, which she initially denied. It was only after an extensive 
medication history done by a clinical pharmacist that the patient admitted 
to using oral aloe vera capsules for constipation. Upon discontinuation of 
the oral aloe vera, liver markers of liver toxicity returned to normal 
levels. Acute hepatitis induced by an 
aloe vera 
preparation: a case report. World J Gastroenterol. 2005. Aloe vera, plant extracts of Aloe barbadensis miller, is widely 
used in phytomedicine. The first case of acute hepatitis due to this 
compound was described.  
Hepatitis in a 57-year old female could be linked to the ingestion of Aloe barbadensis miller compounds. The patient's hepatitis resolved completely 
after discontinuing this medication. The case emphasizes the 
importance of considering phytopharmaceutical over-the-counter drugs as 
causative agents of hepatitis. One-year chronic toxicity study of Aloe 
arborescens Miller var. natalensis Berger in Wistar Hannover rats. A pilot 
study. Food Chem Toxicol. 2008. Onco-Pathology, Department of Pathology and 
Host-Defense, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa University, 
Miki-cho, Kita-gun, Kagawa, Japan. This study was conducted to evaluate the chronic toxicity of Aloe 
arborescens Miller var. natalensis Berger (ALOE) in the diet at doses of 
4%, 0.8% or 0.16% to groups of male and female Wistar Hannover rats. No 
deaths occurred at any dose level throughout the treatment period. Both 
sexes receiving 4% showed diarrhea, with a reduced body weight gain. 
Increase of WBCs in the male 4% group, decrease of Hb in the female 4% 
and 0.8% groups, decrease of IP in the male 4% and 0.8% groups and 
female 4.0% group. Relative kidney weight showed increase in the female 
4% group and relative heart and brain weights were decreased in the 
female 4% and 0.8% groups. Histopathologically, both sexes receiving 
4% showed severe sinus dilatation of ileocecal lymph nodes, and 
yellowish pigmentation of ileocecal lymph nodes and renal tubules. In 
conclusion, the no observed adverse effect level for ALOE was the 0.16% in 
diet, which is equivalent to 87 and 109 mg/kg/day in males and females, 
respectively. My 
mom cuts aloe vera and keeps it refrigerated for weeks. Is that not a good 
thing? She consumes it. I guess what I want to know is what are some side 
effects of intoxication from aloe vera? Are vomiting, upset stomach, no appetite, 
headaches, sleepiness, tired, nightmares, and dizziness side effects? It is possible that excessive use could result in 
gastrointestinal side effects and other symptoms. However, the symptoms you 
mention above can be caused by quite a large number of supplements, medications, 
and medical conditions. Combining with other dietary 
supplements Is it okay to take a small amount of aloe vera juice with other 
supplements such as curcumin or saw palmetto ? Probably. We don't suspect there would be a problem. Are there any suspected interactions between 
taking an aloe vera supplement in the morning and 5-HTP at night? I don't see any problems with this combination. Aloe Vera Plant research 
update A double-blind, placebo-controlled study of a commercial Aloe vera 
gel in the treatment of slight to moderate psoriasis vulgaris. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2005. The Aloe vera plant has been used for an array of ailments, 
including skin diseases. Recent experimental research have substantiated 
the presence of biologically active compounds in the gel, but there are 
few controlled, clinical trials to assess the efficacy. We aimed to test 
the effect of a commercial, preserved, but otherwise untreated Aloe vera 
gel in psoriasis. Forty-one patients with stable plaque 
psoriasis were included in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
right/left comparison. The study comprised a 2-week wash-out period 
followed by a 4-week treatment period with two daily applications and 
follow-up visits after 1 and 2 months. Data on 40 patients were analysed. The score sum of erythema, infiltration and desquamation 
decreased in 72% of the Aloe vera-treated sites compared with 82% of 
the placebo-treated areas from week 0 to week 4, which was statistically 
significant in favour of the placebo treatment. Fifty-five 
per cent of the patients reported local side-effects, mainly drying up of 
the skin on test areas. The effect of this commercial Aloe vera gel on stable plaque psoriasis was modest and not better than 
placebo. However, the high response rate of placebo indicated a possible 
effect of this in its own right, which would make the Aloe vera gel 
treatment appear less effective. Protective value of Aloe vera against some toxic 
effects of arsenic in rats. Phytother Res. 2005. Concomitant oral supplementation of Aloe vera, (1, 2 or 5% w[sol ]v in 
drinking water) during arsenic exposure (intraperitoneally, 
once daily for 3 weeks) was investigated in rats for its protective value. 
Animals exposed to arsenic (III) showed a significant inhibition of delta-aminolevulinic 
acid dehydratase (ALAD) activity, a marginal decrease in glutathione (GSH) 
and an increase in zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP) level in blood. White blood 
corpuscles (WBC) level decreased while most of the other clinical blood 
parameters like red blood cells count, haemoglobin, MCV, MCH, MCHC ratio 
and platelet number, etc. remained unaltered on arsenic exposure. Hepatic 
reduced GSH, oxidized glutathione (GSSG) level remained unaltered, 
thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) level increased 
significantly while the activity of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and catalase 
decreased on arsenic exposure. Renal GSH contents decreased while 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity decreased significantly on arsenic 
exposure. Concomitant administration of Aloe vera had remarkable 
protective action on inhibited blood ALAD activity and restored blood GSH 
level while most of the other blood biochemical parameters remained 
unchanged on Aloe vera supplementation. Interestingly, most of hepatic 
biochemical variables indicative of oxidative stress showed protection; no 
effect of Aloe vera on blood and liver arsenic concentration was noted. 
Also, no effect of Aloe vera on most of the altered renal biochemical 
parameters were noticed. The results thus lead us to conclude that 
simultaneous supplementation of Aloe vera protects against arsenic induced 
oxidative stress but does not influence the arsenic concentration in these 
organs. Different forms Here's one email that we received mentioning 
the range of gels and extracts that they carry. Gel Diced pulp Juice Whole Leaf Dried Powder 1:1 Aloe Vera Whole Leaf Juice Whole leaf Concentrate Gel Concentrate Refined Powder Rind powder 100:1 Aloe Vera Whole Leaf freeze Dried Powder As you can see, there are quite a number of 
compounds, gels, extracts, juices, etc and it is difficult to know which 
form is best. The gel and juice have active ingredients and the whole leaf 
may have additional beneficial ingredients. For practical purposes, one 
can consume either aloe vera juice or 
take the whole leaf tablets. Testimonial Dear Dr. Sahelian, recently I have discovered something that has 
effectively eliminated heart palpitations from my life and in doing so, 
has greatly improved my quality of life and I wish to pass along the 
information to someone who might care enough to use it to help others. 
Here is the story: In the late 1980s I developed hypertension and have 
been under treatment since that time. I now take both lisinopril and 
metoprolol tartrate for the hypertension. In the late 1990s I began to 
develop heart palpitations (atrial). These really bothered me 
psycologically even though my doctor assured me that they were not life 
threatening and informed me that he considered the known treatments to be 
far more dangerous than the palpitations themselves. As a result, I have 
simply
lived with them over the past few years and over that time they 
progressively became more severe. By March of this year I would experience 
20 to 40 minutes of steady heart palpitations every time I would lie down 
as well as random palpitations the rest of the time. They were beginning 
to actually make me feel physically sick. During the early part of the 
year I had also been having a problem with a urinary tract infection as a 
result of long standing urinary track problems. I was given the choice of 
treatment with antibiotics or uroquid (a sodium phosphate based drug). I 
had chosen the uroquid and
by March had a very bad reaction to it. One of the results was that it 
really messed up my stomach. For the stomach problem I began taking aloe 
vera soft gels of the common variety that are available at health food 
stores and drug stores. I was taking two a day and by the second day I was 
astounded to realize that the heart palpitations were totally gone. After 
taking the aloe vera for one month, I stopped it to see what would happen. 
The heart palpitations returned within 24 hours. I started taking the 
aloe vera again and the heart palpitations again stopped. After taking the 
aloe vera for six months, I again stopped it to see what would happen. 
This time it took a full week for the heart palpitations to return. 
Recently, I had a slight problem with some minor palpitations, but found 
that taking a couple of Citrical tabs (one time only) caused them to go 
away again completely. At this point I am extremely grateful to have the 
palpitations gone from my life. So far I have found one other person with palpitations. 
In her case the palpitations were a result of a severe physical trauma to 
the chest. Her doctor was medicating her for her palpitations with 
something that was making her feel lousy and controlling but not 
eliminating the palpitations. I suggested she talk to her doctor about the 
aloe vera. She did and he told her to go for it. I have since been 
informed that the aloe vera has eliminated her palpitations, the doctor 
has taken her
off of the prescription medication, and that she is feeling better than 
she has in years. I have also discussed this aloe vera experience with 
someone at the NIH. This study indicated the aloe vera also may improve 
lipid and glucose levels in the blood among other things and there is no 
record that there was any significant follow up to it. My recent blood 
work done by my physician seems to confirm this since all results from my 
blood work showed the same patterns of improvement as those in the study. 
I have since sought out other substances that might help me with my 
hypertension as well and am now taking fish oil and COQ10 in addition to 
the aloe vera. I am also trying to follow the dash diet. The overall 
effect is that my hypertension has been retreating steadily and I am 
really happy that by accident (or providence) I had this experience. Recipe I started making my own aloe vera juice, from the 
actual leaf, and it sure helped my internal cleansing.  Now I am regular, 
and not bloated all the time. I mix it with key lime juice, and apple and grape juice.  Yes it 
appears, slimy, but it has no taste, so it goes down easily. I also cut 
chunks of the flesh, and add it to my salads.  I also fry it with other 
greens, and it is quite tasty. Is there a certain type of aloe you recommend for the 
issue I'm having below? I'm currently taking Prilosec and it's only helping a 
little. I need better help. My main problem is when I eat something (anything) 
my throat tightens, and my esophogus gets very dry, and it can feel difficult to 
breathe. Before when this happened I went 5 months on a liquid diet, before the 
{rilosec finally helped. I had an upper GI done, they tested for hiatel hernia / 
allergies, pylori and nothing shown (other than reflux) which blew me away. I 
thought for sure there was something far worse happening. Anyhow, the reflux 
(and all the symptoms as before) are back now. I have to keep clearing my 
throat. Especially after I swallow food. So I'm hoping I can find something to 
SOOTHE my eosphogus and increase more moisture in my throat and mouth. Since 
this has happened I can only eat very soft foods, and liquids. I cannot swallow 
pills. I dont drink or smoke, or take any caffiene or spicy food either. I cannot predict whether aloe would help you or not, but the 
liquid form may be more effective for soothing an esophagus than the tablet 
form. Suppliers and manufacturers Lorand Laboratories, LLC has developed an Aloe vera powder with an 
acemannan content greater than 15%. This new product called BiAloe, short for 
Bio-Active Aloe, is manufactured using unique aloe vera processing technology 
that allows for a bio-active profile nearly identical to that of natural Aloe 
vera inner leaf gel, according to Lorand Laboratories. “The quality of Aloe is 
contingent upon a series of factors”, said Dr. Santiago Rodriguez, Lorand's 
founder and CEO, including extremely fertile soil, ideal climate, hand farming, 
and proprietary processing using GMPs. “And through these factors, we guarantee 
BiAloe has a high concentration of acemannan, a key health ingredient in Aloe 
vera,” he says. The company claims they have maintained the proper molecular 
size and the natural solubility of the Aloe inner leaf gel, keeping BiAloe as 
close to what nature intended as possible while optimizing the health benefits.” 
BiAloe, Aloe vera inner leaf gel freeze dried powder, is a free flowing powder 
that is water soluble, and appropriate for many product applications including: 
capsules, tablets, powders, bars, foods, cosmetics, and skin care, to name but a 
few. Kudos to you for being a M.D. with a mind open to nature 
and natural remedies. There are far to few of people like you! I saw your page 
about Aloe v. You have posted some excellent information there, including the 
availability of BiAloe from Lorand Labs. FYI, I am working with Lorand and a 
partner, and we are packaging the BiAloe Pure Powder in 30 g. increments for 
consumer purchase