
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 21:33:16 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Preventive Care | Edmonton AB | West Central Dental West Central Dental 12110 107th Ave NW | Edmonton, AB T5M 1Y8 | (780) 482-1010 Preventive Care Preventive dental care is important throughout your life, no matter what your age. By practicing good oral hygiene at home and scheduling regular checkups with your dentist, you can help keep your smile bright and healthy for many years to come. Here are a few simple ways  you can prevent the build-up of plaque and cavities: Brush your teeth at least twice a day with a soft-bristled toothbrush. Use fluoride toothpaste to remove food particles and plaque from the tooth surfaces. Also be sure to brush the top surface of your tongue; this will remove any extra plaque-causing food particles, and help keep your breath fresh! Brushing Instructions Clean between your teeth by flossing at least once a day. You can also use a mouthwash to help kill bacteria and freshen your breath. Decay-causing bacteria can linger between teeth where toothbrush bristles can't reach. Floss and mouthwash will help remove plaque and food particles from between the teeth and under the gum line. Flossing Instructions Eat a balanced diet, and try to avoid extra-sugary treats. Nutritious foods such as raw vegetables, plain yogurt, cheese or fruit can help keep your smile healthy. Remember to schedule regular checkups with your dentist every six months for a professional teeth cleaning. Ask your dentist about dental sealants, a protective plastic coating that can be applied to the chewing surfaces of the back teeth where decay often starts. If you play sports, be sure to ask your dentist about special mouthguards designed to protect your smile. If it’s been six months since your last dental checkup, then it’s time to contact our practice and schedule your next appointment! Download printable instructions for brushing and flossing. Brushing instructions Brushing: Step 1 Place your toothbrush at a 45 degree angle to your gum. Brushing: Step 2 Brush gently in a circular motion. Brushing: Step 3 Brush the outer, inner, and chewing surfaces of each tooth. Brushing: Step 4 Use the tip of your brush for the inner surface of your front teeth. Flossing instructions Flossing: Step 1 Wind about 18 inches of floss around your fingers as shown. Most of it should be wrapped around one finger, and as the floss is used, the other finger takes it up. Flossing: Step 2 Use your thumbs and forefingers to guide about one inch of floss between your teeth. Flossing: Step 3 Holding the floss tightly, gently saw the floss between your teeth. Then curve the floss into a C-shape against one tooth and gently slide it beneath your gums. Flossing: Step 4 Slide the floss up and down, repeating for each tooth. Preventive Care / Cosmetic Dentistry / Common Procedures / Pediatric Dentistry Gum Disease / TMJ/TMD / Emergency Dental Care / FAQs ↑ Back to top Home Our Team Meet Dr. Albert Meet Dr. Gill Meet Dr. Ushko Meet Our Dental Team For New Patients Office Visits Financial Info Testimonials New Patient Forms General Dentistry Preventive Care Cosmetic Dentistry Common Procedures Pediatric Dentistry Gum Disease TMJ/TMD Emergency Dental Care FAQs Services Sedation Dentistry Sleep Apnea Snoring Prevention Teeth Whitening Waterlase MD Invisalign Invisalign Info Invisalign Teen Info Invisalign Costs Invisalign FAQ Invisalign Testimonials Invisalign Videos Invisalign Before & After Contact Us Home | Our Team For New Patients | General Dentistry | Services Invisalig