
Austin County Obesity and Surgery Home Doctors Dr. Richard D. Alford Dr. Michael W. Steines Dr. Kimiye R. Cabrera Bariatrics What is Obesity Am I Obese What is Morbid Obesity Causes of Morbid Obesity Health Conditions Threats of Obesity Will Surgery Work Body Mass Index (BMI) Where do I Begin Options for Treatment Diets Have Not Worked How Does Surgery Work? How my GI Tract Works Is Surgery Right for Me? Surgery Is For Me Risks and Complications Preparation for Surgery Life After Surgery Bariatric Resources Paying for Surgery Everyone Needs Support Surgery Options Gastric Bypass Lap Band Gastric Sleeve Staff Contact Us Patient Forms FAQs FREE Seminars Before & After Pay Online St. Joseph Professional Building 2700 E. 29th Street Suite #105 Bryan , TX 77802 ph. 979-776-5631 fx. 979-776-6184 BBB Accredited Business Bariatrics » Surgery Is For Me » Life After Surgery » Bariatric Resources call 979-776-5631 Bariatric Resources You have found a resource for Obesity and Surgery in Austin County with the General & Bariatric Surgical Associates. General & Bariatric Surgical Associates has been serving the Brazos Valley and Austin County for over 19 years;  all with very low complication rates and no fatalities.   Our goal is to provide weight loss surgery, gastric bypass, gastric sleeve, lap band and Obesity and Surgery services to patients in and around Austin County with clinical outcomes that far exceed recognized standards. In the past 7 years, General & Bariatric Surgical Associates has taken a special interest in tackling the disease of obesity by offering Obesity and Surgery among other Surgery Options . If you are interested in finding out more information about Obesity and Surgery or weight loss surgery options in Austin County, please contact us.  We look forward to hearing from you!! Obesity and Surgery news: The Stigmatization of Obesity and Weight-Loss Surgery - My Bariatric Life - HealthCentral.com I was embarrassed by who I was. Or more accurately, the way I used to think of myself was that I was embarrassed by what I was. I am certainly a human being; there is no doubt. I am as human now as I was then -- although I often felt at times that I was ... Studies: Surgery trumps pills in treating obesity - Bend Bulletin Treating the ills of obesity with surgery rather than pills may become the new standard as the result of accumulating research. In a recent study and another cited by doctors, obese patients with diabetes saw dramatically improved health ... MTC Launches Discount Gastric Sleeve Packages in Tijuana, Mexico - WebWire To aid in overcoming the world’s ever-growing problem of obesity, Texas-based Company Medical Tourism Corporation (MTC), has launched discount gastric sleeve packages in Tijuana, Mexico – a definite answer to the problem of the weight loss surgery seeker. O.C. firm patents device to treat obesity - msnbc.com "According to the American Board of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, obesity can't be treated in one shot," Nihalani said. "Obesity is a chronic disease that is treated in stages." Other business stories... O.C. firm patents device to treat obesity, diabetes - Orange County Register “According to the American Board of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, obesity can’t be treated in one shot,” Nihalani said. “Obesity is a chronic disease that is treated in stages.” Austin County news: Planned Parenthood Texas Funding Ban Set Aside Again - Bloomberg The district court case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin). The appeals court case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-50377 ... Austin’s revised incentive deal imposes hiring guidelines on Apple (Update: Travis County approves incentive) - 9TO5Mac Update: A report from KVUE is claiming Travis County Commissioners approved the revised incentive deal at this afternoon’s meeting: The last piece in the puzzle to one company’s effort to expand in Austin fell into place Tuesday afternoon ... Austin Nichols, Jarnell Stokes, Johnathan Williams vie for Team USA spots - Memphis Commercial Appeal Briarcrest junior standout Austin Nichols -- who has recently picked up scholarship offers from Duke, North Carolina, Kansas and Ohio State to add to an already impressive list -- has been invited to Colorado Springs to try out for the USA under ... Austin mayor, city employee charged with vote fraud - msnbc.com Two men, including the mayor of Austin, surrendered to Indiana State Police investigators ... According to complaints filed with the Scott County Election Board last year, Campbell and Danner stopped by multiple residences, asked voters if ... Camas standout catcher Austin Barr could go high in the major league draft - Oregonian Camas senior Austin Barr was 5 at the time ... Most years, Barr would dominate Clark County's catcher conversation, but this is an unusual senior class. Just to the west of Camas is another catcher who could be selected high in the major ... Contact Us To contact GBSA, fill out the form below. Name Phone Number E-Mail Address Interested In: General Weight Loss Surgery Gastric Bypass LAP BAND Gastric Sleeve Other Comments Submit Copyright 2009-2012 General and Bariatric Surgical Associates. All rights reserved. | Terms Of Use | P