Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

‘Fighting Children’s Cold And Flu Symptoms- Back to the Basics’ ‘Fighting
Children’s Cold And Flu Symptoms- Back to the Basics’ The
latest news is enough to make any parent’s head spin: “Cold Meds Send
7,000 Children a Year to the ER,” “FDA Warns Cold Drugs Are Too Risky for
Babies,” and “Flu Shot Might Not Help,” Parents are left worried and
wondering how best to protect their children and yet safely treat their
bothersome symptoms that leave parent and child lying awake due to cough, fever
and stuffy nose. So
what patient-care options are left for concerned moms and dads? While most cold
and flu cases last about a week, parents should call a doctor if the child has
serious cough or fever or exhibits any of the following: 1. Continued fever greater than 102 for more than two days
which can lead to dehydration 2. Fast or difficult breathing 3. A cough that produces discolored mucus, or a persistent
tight barky cough 4. Any unusual or strange symptom that is being displayed that
is out of the ordinary. 5. Duration of symptoms lasting longer than 5 days. Other
symptoms that warrant immediate medical attention include a stiff and painful
neck with severe, persistent headache, fever, confusion, vomiting, or severe
earache. In addition, sick children who also have chronic medical conditions
will need to see the doctor sooner. Tried-and-True Remedies Help To treat or prevent cold
or flu just as with adults use zinc. Zinc lozenges formulated for children
prevent virus and bacteria replication. Water OZ liquid zinc can be used to
swab the inside of the nose for prevention of as well as the symptoms of a cold.
Chewable vitamin C is a must. There are wonderful herbal formulas that will
boost immunity and shorten the cold. Try a homeopathic to relieve the symptoms
of stuffy nose, cough and congestion. A mixture of honey and lemon in hot water
helps coat the throat and break up mucus. Spikes in temperature should be
treated and never ignored. Other ways to help kids get through the
misery associated with colds and the flu: 1
Use a humidifier to loosen mucus and clear clogged nasal passages. 2.
Elevating the head with an extra pillow will decrease congestion and aid with
sinus drainage. 3.
Extra naps, more quiet activities, plenty of liquids and lighter foods are an
important part of healing. 4.
Dab mentholated ointment around the nose to unclog nasal passages and soothe
raw red nostrils. Giving
up the use of over-the-counter medications does not mean leaving the child to
suffer, far from it. With no surprise to my readers I welcome the idea that
even mainstream medicine is embracing the idea that we must return to a more
common sense approach to the treatment of c