
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 10:30:52 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://advanced-vitamin-formulas.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Ginkgo Biloba Benefits » How Can Anti Aging Vitamins and Supplements Benefit Your Health? Antioxidant Vitamins Amazing Ginkgo Biloba Benefits supplements 1 Response » Sep 25 2011 If you have an interest in protecting and improving your health, then you may have heard of ginkgo biloba benefits. The herb Ginkgo biloba has been in use for thousands of years in Eastern countries like China, India and Japan. Recently, it has begun to be used in the West more and more as research continues to reveal its powerful benefits for many different health issues. Ginkgo biloba is a powerful herbal anti inflammatory agent. It supports increased blood flow to the brain which can be helpful for a whole range of issues such as; Memory concentration fatigue depression anxiety confusion Ginkgo biloba often benefits people with tinnitus and vertigo. It can potentially benefit any illness in which blood circulation is involved such as Reynaud’s disease. Since it is an anti-inflammatory compound as well as being a powerful antioxidant, Ginkgo biloba can have positive benefits for overall health and is regularly found as an ingredient in some high quality antiaging supplements. In nutritional supplements, the Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) set by the FDA is a guideline of the minimum amounts needed of a nutrient to stay healthy, but in numerous cases consuming more may be right for you. You may want to consult your health care provider before taking larger quantities but in many cases, additional quantities may be needed to meet your personal requirements. Some medications and medical conditions can impact the body’s ability to absorb and utilize vitamins and minerals and your doctor, nutritionist or other health care provider can advise you what amounts are best for you. Ginkgo biloba is not considered to be an essential nutrient, so a Recommended Daily Allowance has not been set by the FDA. The ideal situation would be to consult a naturopathic physician or an herbalist to determine the best daily amount of Ginkgo biloba for your situation. Alternatively, some high quality supplements will contain a safe and effective amount of the herb for most people. For even more details, read the full article on Ginkgo Biloba benefits . Posted by admin at 4:49 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Ginkgo Biloba Benefits , herbal Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Add comments Ginkgo biloba benefits are well known to a large number of people in the world. It is used by the people of China, Japan, India, and Korea both as a food item as well as a natural remedy. In this article, we take a look at the diseases and disorders that can benefit from this wonder plant and the different ways in which it may benefit your health. 1. Ginkgo biloba is a powerful herbal anti inflammatory agent . It can help reduce the pain and inflammation associated with inflammatory disorders. A regular dose of the herb can also inhibit chronic inflammation and lower the risk of various inflammation related health problems. 2. It supports increased blood flow to the brain and treats and helps to prevent absentmindedness, poor concentration, fatigue, depression, anxiety, confusion, and other such problems caused by cerebral insufficiency. It contains terpenoids, a group of vasodilators that dilate the blood vessels, reduce platelet friction, and increase blood flow to the brain and various other organs. 3. It may improve the condition of people suffering from dementia, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, and various other brain related problems that involve the loss of memory and senility. 4. Ginkgo biloba often benefits people with tinnitus , cochlear deafness, and other hearing disorders by increasing blood flow to the ears. 5. It is used for symptoms of vertigo (dizziness), which is caused by poor blood flow to the ears. 6. It is also used for symptoms of altitude sickness, also known as acute mountain sickness. 7. Ginkgo biloba may be helpful for Reynaud’s disease , which is caused by poor blood flow to the fingers and toes. Its beneficial effect may be increasing microcirculation. 8. It is a powerful herbal anti inflammatory agent. It is a rich source of plant based antioxidants known as flavonoids. These flavonoids can help to reduce inflammation, protect your body from free radical damage, and prevent premature aging. 9. It provides support for male impotency by increasing blood flow to the male genital organ, which results in stronger, longer lasting erections. 10. It may help with peripheral vascular insufficiency, arrhythmias, depression, anxiety, PMS, intermittent claudication, vitiligo, and a number of other ailments. A regular dose of ginkgo biloba may help to lower the risk of all the ailments mentioned above and has a positive effect on your overall health . You can find a number of herbal anti inflammatory and anti aging supplements that contain ginkgo extract. You can get one of these supplements and start taking them regularly. It’s important to make sure the product you choose contains at least 50 mg of ginkgo per serving. We are strong advocates of putting in your “due diligence” when choosing nutritional supplements . It’s important to find a company you feel you can trust and one which discloses important information about the ingredients and manufacturing of their supplements. Research is showing that high quality supplements with the right ingredients may have a significant beneficial effect on your health. A company that produces high quality supplements which meet all of the requirements above is Xtend-Life Natural Products . Their multivitamin supplement, Total Balance , is the most complete nutritional supplement we’ve found so far. For example, not only does it contain ginkgo biloba, it also contains other important nutrients for brain health, healthy metabolism and heart health (and overall health) like lutein, alpha lipoic acid, L-carnosine, N-acetyl cysteine and coenzyme Q10. Plus much more - * Enzymes – amylase, lipase and more * Herbs like green tea and ginkgo biloba * Vitamin D * Minerals like magnesium, selenium, calcium, zinc and potassium * Trace elements * Carotenoids * Amino acids * over 75 different nutrients Rather than spending hundreds of dollars a month on various supplements and taking handfuls of pills every day, another option is to take a high quality multi vitamin like Xtend-Life’s Total Balance . One of the amazing properties of ginkgo is that its medicinal properties enhance considerably when combined with certain herbs. So, the most effective way to enjoy ginkgo biloba benefits is to take a supplement that contains the extracts of ginkgo, milk thistle, bilberry, alfalfa, green tea, black cumin, turmeric, and other such powerful natural substances. Posted by admin at 6:15 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Ginkgo Biloba Benefits , Herbal Anti Inflammatory Menu Home – Anti Aging Supplements Antioxidant Supplements Vitamins for Memory Coenzyme Q10 Benefits and Side Effects Brain Vitamins Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Health Benefits of Alfalfa Bilberry Extract Benefits Benefits of Anti Aging Herbs vitamins supplements Terms of Use Contact Blog Recent Blog Posts What is Ginkgo Biloba Used For? Support Your Health with Anti Aging Herbs Multi-Vitamin Supplements Offer Advantages For All Ages A Few of The Health Benefits of Alfalfa Amazing Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Finding Health Solutions With The Right Combination Of Supplements Beyond Macronutrients and the Importance of Vitamin Supplements Find Out More About Immune System Vitamins and Supplements Nutrients to Look for in Brain Supplements and Vitamins Finding the Most Effective Eye Vitamins Have You Considered Taking Memory Supplements? Learn About the Health Protecting Advantages of Green Tea Supplements What are the Possible Benefits of a COQ10 Supplement? Discover the Powerful Benefits of Lutein for Eyes Alpha Lipoic Acid Benefits Tags Alpha Lipoic Acid Benefits Anti Aging Herbs Anti Aging Supplements Anti Aging vitamins antioxidants antioxidants in tea antioxidant supplements Bilberry Extract Benefits brain nutrition Brain Supplements brain vitamins Coenzyme q10 Benefits coenzyme q10 dosage Coenzyme q10 side effects coq10 and statins COQ10 Supplement Eye Vitamins Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Ginkgo biloba memory Green Tea Supplements Health Benefits of Alfalfa herbal Herbal Anti Inflammatory immune system supplements Lutein for Eyes Lycopene Benefits Memory Supplements multi vitamins natural heart health Profect Protica Research Resveratrol Benefits SAMe benefits supplement Vitamin and Mineral Deficiency Vitamins for Memory What is Ginkgo Biloba Used For? zeaxanthin with lutein © 2012 How Can Anti Aging Vitamins and Supplements Bene