
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 24 Mar 2012 08:02:00 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
X-Pingback: http://www.wellnessdenver.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Acupuncture | The Wellness Center Inside Whole Foods... Call Today (303) 357-9355 massage therapeutic / deep tissue massage sports massage swedish massage hot stone massage ashiatsu massage prenatal massage craniosacral therapy lymphatic massage chair massage reiki energy work chiropractic acupuncture naturopathy cleansing isagenix about us overview honors & awards q & a testimonials 10 year anniversary practitioners esthetician chiropractor massage therapists Bill Woodall, CMT Dana Marlow, CMT Kevyn Nguyen, CMT Allegra Hoopingarner, CMT Amy Gage, CMT Danielle Arico, CMT Layhoon Kasa, CMT Linda Moiseyev, CMT Sabine Grossmann, CMT Molly Ronan, CMT naturopathic doctor acupuncturist Shwu-Yar Tsai, Ph.D., L.Ac. Michelle/Leno, LAc, MSTOM, Dipl. OM membership & rates blog member login gift certificates press in the news media room contact us community Posts Tagged ‘Acupuncture’ Needling a Cold Thursday, September 16th, 2010 The immune system protects the body from potentially harmful substances by recognizing and responding to antigens (molecules on the surface of) cells, viruses, fungi, or bacteria, as well as nonliving substances such as toxins, chemicals, drugs, and foreign particles. This complex system involves specialized cells (such as T-cells, B cells, macrophages and others) that recognize and destroy these foreign entities or antigens. Unfortunately the lifestyle of most American’s today does not support proper immune function because of lack of sleep, poor nutrition/diet, too much stress, not enough rest/relaxation, AND exposure to germs and viruses in crowded places like schools and offices. There are a number of alternative ways to increase immunity, especially in cold/flu season. Naturopathy offers great solutions, and acupuncture is also an effective way to enhance immune function. How does it work? Acupuncture uses needles to stimulate the flow and movement of qi (energy) through the body’s energy pathways or meridians. When there is a blockage of any kind, the body is not in balance and can’t function properly (i.e. digestion issues, pain or impaired immunity). The needling of specific acupuncture points and their subsequent effect on the nervous system relax the body, help a person sleep and promote healthy digestion all of which support a healthy immune system. According to a paper presented at the 5th World Congress of Acupuncture in 2002, acupuncture affects immunity in the following ways: - Acupuncture elevates levels of white blood cells, specific hormones, prostaglandins, gamma-globulins, antibodies and opsonins – all of which support the immune process. - Acupuncture constricts and dilates blood vessels, promoting the body’s release of vasodilators (known as histamines) that increase the inflammatory response that protects the body - Acupuncture elevates the levels of neurotransmitters, specifically serotonin and noradrenaline that support sleep, mood, and cell regeneration – all of which balances our bodies communication systems. - Acupuncture activates the secretions of endorphins, specifically enkaphalins that ask as pain killers In addition, a group of scientists recently did a study on acupuncture’s effectiveness to attenuate stress and stimulate lymphocyte proliferation (white blood cells, specifically T-cells that are responsible for cell-mediated immunity) in the elderly (Neuroscience Letters, 2010). The result showed that acupuncture was able to significantly reduce depression, anxiety and stress. The intervention also increased T-cell proliferation, directly increasing the amount and action of white blood cells. Moxibustion is also a powerful tool in the acupuncture repertoire that aids in immunity support. Moxibustion is a heat therapy that involves the use of mugwort, an herb that is applied topically on acupuncture points. Moxibustion has been shown in studies to increase white blood cell count in chemotherapy patients and other cases of immune weakness. For patients with recurring infections and colds, moxibustion is an excellent technique for naturally bolstering immunity. In conclusion, acupuncture and its accompanying techniques are powerful forces for supporting the immune system as well as fighting illness and disease. Tags: Acupuncture , cold and flu , cold season , immune system , immunity , wellness Posted in Acupuncture | No Comments » Balance – Yin & Yang in Chinese Medicine Wednesday, July 28th, 2010 As we explore balance in our lives this month by examining the way we  eat and tuning into what is important in all aspects of our lives – it  is great to look at philosophies that are based on balance and the  interconnected nature of things. Chinese medicine is a wonderful example  that embodies the concept of finding an ever-changing equilibrium. In Chinese culture, as in their medical philosophies, they take a step back and look at the entirety of things, the way they interrelate and connect – seeing life as one harmonious and balanced whole. The concept of yin and yang is an example of this, for these two forces represent the bipolar manifestation of all things in nature. Simply put, there are two sides to everything – happy and sad, tired and energetic, cold and hot. Yin and yang are the opposites that make the whole. They cannot exist without each other and nothing is ever completely one or the other. There are varying degrees of each within everything and everybody. Generally, anything that is moving, ascending, bright, progressing, hyperactive, including functional disease of the body, pertains to yang. The characteristics of stillness, descending, darkness, degeneration, hypoactivity, including organic disease, pertain to yin. It is important to note that the balance of yin and yang is not always exact, even when the body is healthy. Like other aspects of balance, there is always change based on what we experience internally and externally. If we get in a fight with our spouse, we might explode with anger and thus a burst of yang. When the dust settles and you reconcile with your partner, the yang subsides and yin might even be present. This is a normal reaction and a normal return to balance. BUT if the body, mind and emotions are constantly dominated by either yin and yang, it brings about an imbalance that can result in ill health. A clinical diagnosis in Traditional Chinese Medicine is mainly based on the yin-yang, as well as the five element, theory that apply the phenomena and laws of nature to the study of the physiological activities and pathological changes of the human body and its interrelationships. When the practitioner determines the exact nature of the imbalance, they then correct it through the use of acupuncture, herbal remedies, exercise, diet and lifestyle. As balance is restored in the body, so is health. The yin-yang theory also has a visual symbol that is a representation of the philosophy. The symbol is a circle divided by a curved line into a black (Yin) side and white (Yang) side. The curve represents the constantly changing balance between yin and yang. Each side contains a small circle of the opposite color which symbolizes that there is some of yin in yang and some of yang in yin. Tags: Acupuncture , balance , TCM , Traditional Chines Medicine , yin and yang , yin yang balance Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments » Cupping: Alternative Therapy for Back Pain Wednesday, June 30th, 2010 It is high time to get your garden prepped and planted, put in some new bedding flowers, or dig up that unsightly tree that didn’t make it through the Winter. All of these chores are fun, but are also hard work and can leave you sore (and sun burnt) the next day. Back pain and gardening go hand and hand unfortunately, BUT there are many remedies for spending a day bent over digging in the dirt. One that may not be on your radar screen is called Cupping Therapy. What is Cupping Therapy? Cupping is an ancient therapy that can be traced back to Egypt over 3000 years ago. In modern times it is known as a Traditional Chinese Medicine technique for treating a variety of health conditions – predominately pain. Basically a partial vacuum is created in cups placed on the skin either by means of heat or suction. This draws up the underlying tissues, creating a rush of blood to the area – increasing circulation and localized healing takes place. Most commonly cupping is incorporated into a massage, bodywork or acupuncture session. Cupping therapy has been further developed as a means to open the ‘meridians’ or channels of the body that flow energy to each and every organ and tissue in our bodies. For example, there are five meridians on the back that, when opened, allow invigorating energy to travel the whole length of the body. Cupping is the best way to open these meridians, and you guessed it…relieve pain!! For a live demonstration on CBS News click here . Cupping has also been found to affect the body up to four inches into the tissues, causing tissues to release toxins and activate the lymphatic system. This is great for common aches and pains but is also proven to clear colon blockages, help activate and clear the veins, arteries and capillaries, activate the skin, clear stretch marks and improve varicose veins. Cupping is very useful, extremely safe and can be easily learned and incorporated into your family health practices. Cupping is an excellent and effective alternative to surgical or invasive treatment or treatment with pharmaceuticals for: •    Body pain including but not limited to knee pain, elbow pain, back and neck pain, pain in the legs, low back pain, hand pain •    Acute pain such as sprains and strains •    Edema and swellings •    Asthma and bronchitis •    Dull aches and pains, arthritis •    Abdominal pain, stomachache and indigestion •    Painful menstruation and associated pain in the low back. •    Coughs from excessive mucus Movie stars like Cupping too. Gwyneth Paltrow showed cupping marks at a film premier that caused quite a media stir. Check out the story!! Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture treatment , back pain , cupping , cupping therapy , pain , pain relief Posted in Acupuncture | No Comments » INSOMNIA, the connection between sleep, stress and health. Wednesday, May 26th, 2010 Do you lay in bed for hours, feeling tired but unable to fall asleep? Do you toss and turn when you sleep at night? Do you have a hard time falling asleep and staying asleep? Do you feel lethargic and groggy after you wake up? Insomnia affects all age groups. Among adults, insomnia affects women more often than men. The incidence tends to increase with age.  Stress is the most common trigger to short-term or acute insomnia. However, if you don’t address short term insomnia it may develop into chronic insomnia Most adults have experienced insomnia or sleeplessness at one time or another in their lives. An estimated 30%-50% of the general population are affected by insomnia, and 10% have chronic insomnia. By definition, insomnia is “difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep or both” and it may be due to inadequate quality or quantity of sleep. Insomnia is not defined by a specific number of hours of sleep in that one gets, since individuals vary widely in their sleep needs and practices.  Sleep, often in our society is pushed to the side when we are trying to push through a project or we have too many things to do, so we decide to give up sleep in order to work and catch up.  When we do try to fall asleep and have problems, many of us reach for over the counter or prescription sleep aids which only put a band-aid on the problem, rather than address the root of the cause. Insomnia is generally classified into 3 categories: transient, short-term and chronic insomnia. Not every medical society agrees on one definition, here is a general guideline: Transient Insomnia: if you have symptoms lasting less than one week Short-Term Insomnia: if you symptoms between one to three weeks Chronic Insomnia: those that have symptoms longer than three weeks Insomnia Causes: Many of the causes of transient and short-term insomnia are similar and they include: Changes in work schedule Jet lag Excessive or unpleasant noise Uncomfortable room temperature (too hot or too cold) Stressful situations in life (exam preparation, loss of a loved one, unemployment, divorce, or separation) Presence of an acute medical or surgical illness or hospitalization Withdrawal from drug, alcohol, sedative, or stimulant medications Insomnia related to high altitude (mountains) How Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine can help to improve insomnia? Acupuncture is effective in treating stress induced, primary insomnia by balancing the endocrine/hormone regulated activities. Chronic stress causes our stress hormones to become hyperactive, this in turn suppresses our feedback hormone. When using acupuncture, the acu-point selected for the insomnia respond to needling and our bodies adjust the feedback system. In this way the endocrine regulating center can be balance and normal sleeping patterns are restored. Secondary insomnia due to medication and some other physiological causes span from circadian rhythm disorders, sleep-wake imbalance, to a variety of medical conditions are more complex to treat. This will take a longer period of time to treat the underlying conditions and causes of the insomnia. Acupuncture combines with Chinese medicine are essential to improve sleeping patterns. The mechanisms are similar as above mentioned balancing the endocrine system. The medication induced insomnia can be complicated as the medications may work on central nerve systems or at neuron transmitter levels. Acupuncture can help in the way to release the side effects from medications other than fix the root condition. The WHO has published that acupuncture has the therapeutic effect to improve insomnia yet it needs more clinical trials. You do not have to put up with sleepless nights. Simple changes in your daily habits can resolve insomnia and restore your needed rest. Tags: Acupuncture , Acupuncture and Insomnia , Insomina Cures , Insomnia Posted in Acupuncture | No Comments » Acupuncture and Sports Injury Thursday, May 13th, 2010 Spring has officially sprung! Tis the season to start playing your favorite sports, hit the hiking trails, dust of your bike, and enjoy the beauty of Colorado’s outdoor fun. Unfortunately this time of year is also plagued with sports injuries. Although we try to avoid injury , the reality is if you play hard the risk is extremely high. When injury occurs you probably think ice, elevation, compression ….but what about needles. Needles?? Yes, the ancient practice of Acupuncture has been proven by the World Health Organization (WHO) to be effective to alleviate pain, inflammation and help heal injuries. How does acupuncture work? Acupuncture is part of Chinese and/or Oriental Medicine which views the body as an energetic system that is continually striving for a state balance – know as the Yin and Yang balance. This delicate equilibrium stems from a good flow of energy (Chi or Qi) throughout the body. When sports injury or trauma occurs, the Chi becomes stuck or blocked. Think of a traffic jam – If you drive I-25 from the Denver Tech Center to Downtown in the middle of the day it is a pleasant experience and you cruise at 65 mph with a nice flow of cars. Occasionally this flow is disrupted and there is a sudden slow down, signaling that something has happened on the highway. If we look at our energy system as we would the I-25 corridor, the flow is easily influenced by the slightest blockage. So, if the highway is “injured” (i.e. a small to serious accident), the traffic either slows down or totally stops (in Chinese terms the Chi and Blood are not circulating efficiently, causing the area of our body to swell up and become painful, hot to touch, inflamed, stiff, and the muscle may cramp or even spasm). This “injury” or blockage is local, but has a broad effect on the “system”, causing long waits at the onramps and dramatic slowing on adjacent roads and highways. In reference to the body it basically knocks us completely out of balance. Acupuncture treatments use needling to trigger the release of neuro-chemicals in the brain such as endorphins and the repairing troops to heal the damage. It also speeds up the healing process by increasing the flow of Chi and blood into the affected area. Specific points are used based on the diagnosis and injury location, with the overall goal of bringing the body back into its original state of balance. In addition, Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine can be used to prevent sports and other injuries by strengthening the body. This is achieved through needling as well as herbal formulas used to balance the organs. Balanced and healthy organ and organ function (especially kidney, liver and spleen) mean strong bones, tendons and muscles. Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture treatment , injury , injury prevention , injury treatment , muscle injury , sports injury , traumatic injury Posted in Acupuncture | No Comments » categories 10 Year Anniversary Acupuncture blog Chiropractic Care General Happenings Massage Naturopathy Nutritional Cleansing Uncategorized archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 December 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 Search for: find your way around visit our denver center Home Chiropractic Acupunture Cleansing Isagenix Massage Sports Massage Swedish Massage Hot Stone Massage Pre-Natal Massage Therapeutic/Deep Tissue Massage Craniosacral Theraphy Lymphatic Massage | Ashiatsu Massage Chair Massage | Reiki Energy Work About Us Honors & Awards Testimonials Q & A Practitioners Massage Therapists Chiropractor Acupuncturist Naturopathic Doctor Membership & Rates Blog Member Login Gift Certificates Contact Us The Wellness Center 870 S. Colorado Blvd. Suite 200 Denver, Colorado 80246 (303) 357-9355 Open 7 Days A Week. The Wellness Center, Denver, CO | Copyright 2010 - Al