<http://science.blogs.nytimes.com/?p=45>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

A New You: Dr. Alan Greene on Parenting and Children's Health - NYTimes.com Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Questions/Answers World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Research Fitness & Nutrition Money & Policy Views Health Guide Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos January 17, 2008, 1:34 pm A New You: Dr. Alan Greene on Parenting and Children’s Health Dr. Alan Greene. (Tami DeSellier) Just how bad are cold medicines for children? What are the early signs of autism? How do you quiet a colicky infant? Dr. Alan Greene is a clinical professor of pediatrics at Stanford University and the founder of parenting Web site drgreene.com . His most recent book, “Raising Baby Green,” explores environmentally aware approaches to children’s health. You may post your questions below. Please remember that Dr. Greene cannot answer all of them, and he cannot respond to solicitations for personal medical advice. [ Eds. note: We are no longer accepting questions. ] Take Dr. Greene’s pregnancy and parenting quiz . E-mail Print Recommend Share Close Tumblr Digg Linkedin Reddit Permalink Previous Post A New You: Dr. Richard A. Friedman on Mental Health Next Post A New You: Jane E. Brody on Nutrition From 1 to 25 of 62 Comments 1 2 3 Next » 1. January 21, 2008 1:03 pm Link Now that FDA has warned parents not to give OTC cold medicines to young children, what can parents do to help ease a child’s cold or cough? — Terry Graedon 2. January 21, 2008 1:28 pm Link Terry, as you’ve heard, on January 17 the F.D.A. issued a public health advisory warning parents not to give OTC cough and cold meds to children under age 2. The agency’s expert panel has also recommended banning these medicines for children under age 6. The F.D.A.’s action doesn’t mean that they plan to rob kids (and exhausted parents) of remedies in the name of safety. Instead, the agency is taking a step toward protecting kids and parents from spending money on medicines that don’t work and may be dangerous. As parents, it’s easy to be fooled into thinking that these remedies are effective, in part because we’ve felt better when we’ve taken them. This is the same thing that happened when many of these remedies were approved for kids in the 1970s.  Regulators assumed that if the medicines are safe and effective for adults, they must be safe and effective for kids. It turns out neither is true. There is no convincing evidence that they help most kids — at least, not better than placebo syrup, which does really help — and there is evidence of rare, severe side effects, including seizures and death. I tell parents to opt for remedies that have demonstrated effectiveness in children, or are at least unlikely to do any harm. After age 1, honey may be one good solution, according to a study of kids from ages 2 to 18 that was published in the December 2007 Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine. The kids in the study had come into an acute-care clinic with coughs that had kept them awake (along with their parents) the night before. About one-third were randomly selected to receive over-the-counter DM cough syrups artificially flavored with honey, another third were given real honey, and the final third got no treatment at all. In a three-way comparison, the plain honey scored best in every category (yes, better than cough syrup!), reducing the number and severity of coughs and increasing sleep for both kids and parents. In two-way comparisons, only honey was significantly better than no treatment at all. The dose was a half-teaspoon 30 minutes before bed for kids ages 2 to 5, a full teaspoon for kids ages 5 to 11, and two teaspoons for kids ages 12 to 18. Infants who have not reached their first birthday should not be given honey. The study recommends darker honeys, as they contain more bioactive compounds. Dark chocolate may also be a good remedy for coughs — better than cough syrup, according to a January 2005 report in the Journal of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. For kids over age 3, I’m a big fan of “cough” or “sore throat” drops. They can be soothing and also stimulate more saliva production. Saliva contains the best cold medicines: viral antibodies. Gravity is a good decongestant for all of us and especially for babies. Keeping the head above the heart decreases congestion (which is caused not primarily by mucus, by the way, but by swollen blood vessels in the lining of the nose). I like carrying drops during the day and head elevation at night. Nasal saline is a wonderful natural decongestant, especially followed by a bulb syringe to pull out mucus and viral load. The salt may also have an anti-viral effect. Eating chicken soup has been found helpful in several studies, and perhaps saltiness is one of the reasons. Warm moist air — in a steamy shower or with a vaporizer — can be quite helpful, especially if the child has thick mucus. The mucus pulls in the extra moisture, thins out, and is easier to get rid of. — Dr. Alan Greene 3. January 22, 2008 8:01 am Link Are there any early signs that a child will develop rosacea later on? And are there any tell-tale signs as they become teenagers? Finally, is there anything that can be done with children to minimize the future full-blown form of the disorder? — Gilles Frydman 4. January 22, 2008 10:45 am Link My 13-month-old is having light yellowish and stinky bowel movements. Normally he has dark colored bowel movements. Yesterday he threw up twice. At night, he fights eating and drinking his bottle. I recently switched from formula to whole milk (two weeks now). Could that be the cause of this sudden bowel change, or is it a stomach bug or a bile problem? — Marcy 5. January 21, 2008 4:48 pm Link When people develop mental disorders, more often than not the problem starts in childhood or adolescence, according to a study published in the Archives of General Psychiatry in June 2005. Researchers from Harvard Medical School conducted face-to-face surveys of almost 10,000 adults to learn about how common psychological problems are in the general population, and at what ages they begin. Across the board, half of all disorders in adults had started by age 14. This surprises many people. The average age for the start of anxiety disorders and impulse-control disorders was even younger, at age 11. The starting ages were concentrated in a surprisingly narrow range for most of the disorders studied. For instance, half of all impulse-control disorders started between ages 7 and 15. Most of the illnesses were minor at the outset and not diagnosed at the time. This calls for a change in our priorities and awareness. Mental disorders in children are real. Mental disorders in children are important. While conditions such as ADHD may be overdiagnosed, most children with mental disorders don’t get the help they need. Insurance coverage for mental health is spotty at best. Children deserve better access to care, and better mental health screening training by their doctors, teachers, social workers, and juvenile justice workers. Recognizing these conditions can be a powerful contribution to children’s lives. In children as young as ages 2 or 3, diagnosis of mental disorders can be especially tricky. Overdiagnosing and underdiagnosing are probably both common. When children are inattentive and very active, for instance, they may mistakenly be diagnosed with the more popular diagnosis, ADHD, when the real problem is bipolar disorder. I’m a fan of young children seeing a child mental health professional that specializes in ADHD and bipolar disorder before a diagnosis is made. As for using medications in young children, I prefer starting with other solutions where practical. As is the case with OTC medications for the common cold, some mental health medications may have more side effects and less benefit for children. For this reason, I like options such as the nutrition solution for ADHD studied in a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial first reported in the June 2004 Archives of Diseases in Childhood. That study found that removing the chemical preservative sodium benzoate and chemical dyes from the diet was as effective as prescription ADHD drugs at reducing hyperactivity scores. Many mental health medications have not been well studied in very young children. About 69 percent of depressed children, ages 6 to 17, improved significantly while taking Zoloft for their depression, according to a study published in JAMA on August 27, 2003. But data suggest to me that another option may be an even better choice for some children. To me, what was most striking about the study was that fully 59 percent of depressed children taking a placebo pill had significant improvement in their depression and followed a very similar pattern of benefit to those taking the drug. At the beginning of the study, the children had an average CDSR-R depression score of about 64 points. Over the entire 10 weeks, those taking Zoloft had significant improvement, an average of 22.84 points. Those taking the placebo also improved significantly, but clearly not quite as much — an average of 20.19 points. Depressed children deserve all the help they can get. It seems to me that identifying and addressing depression may be an even more important intervention than the modest extra benefit afforded by the prescription. Far too many depressed children suffer without this important help. Thanks, John, for raising this complex and important question. I ‘m eager to hear what others think on all sides of this issue. — Dr. Alan Greene 6. January 21, 2008 4:16 pm Link What’s your opinion about diagnosing children as young as 2 or 3 years old with a mental disorder, like bipolar or ADHD? What about treatment of such disorders in young children with medications? — John Grohol 7. January 22, 2008 9:00 am Link Dear Dr. Greene, Thank you for bringing to the public’s awareness the issues related to OTC medicines and diagnosis and treatment of mental health disorders in children. Thank you also for displaying to the public the importance of evidence based decision making in pediatrics. To that end, I would challenge you to find a study that displays that humidification has any (positive) effect on respiratory illnesses. (I believe that too many parents spend unnecessary money and time with the humidifier and there are reported scald burns from humidifiers.) — Efraim Rosenbaum MD 8. January 22, 2008 8:56 am Link As a pediatrician, it is not often that I am asked about rosacea , which is typically an adult condition with redness, bumps, and/or little spidery blood vessels on the cheeks, forehead, and nose. But as you seem to suspect, Gilles, many adult conditions have their roots in childhood. Even conditions commonly associated with the other end of life, such as osteoporosis or macular degeneration in the elderly, can be set in motion by childhood events. Generally, frequent or prolonged flushing — the blush of dilated blood vessels in the face — is the first sign that someone may be prone to rosacea later. Even though rosacea doesn’t usually begin until after age 30, this flushing is often noticeable in teenagers and even in younger children. It can be detected by Doppler even before it is visible to the naked eye. Still, most children who flush will not develop rosacea. Recently, researchers looking for earlier signs that a child may one day develop roseacea found a link to childhood styes, especially after the of age 10. This link may be real but would be of more use to researchers working on the cause of rosacea than it would be to parents. More than 94 percent of those with childhood styes in this study did not go on to develop rosacea. The causes of rosacea are still controversial, but the bacterium Helicobacter pylori (the same bacterium associated with stomach ulcers) is a suspect, as are Demodex skin mites. The Textbook of Integrative Medicine suggests avoiding triggers of flushing as a way to help delay, prevent, or minimize adult rosacea: “These may include stress, extreme temperature exposures, hot beverages, spicy foods, skin irritants and cosmetics containing astringents, menthols, camphor, and sodium lauryl sulfate. Niacin-containing products that cause flushing may also be a trigger or exacerbating factor.”  A gentle skin cleaning routine makes sense to me, and protecting the skin from too much sun or other irritating exposures. — Dr. Alan Greene 9. January 25, 2008 8:37 am Link My son gets migraine headaches regularly. He seems to get them when he is over-tired. Is there anything I can do to help him other than give him headache medicine or to get rid of them altogether. Thank you, Flavia Souza — Flavia Souza 10. January 25, 2008 8:01 am Link Omega-3 fatty acids such as DHA and EPA are being touted by several studies in the U.K. and Australia as being an effective treatment for ADHD, bipolar disorder and other mental disorders in children. Have you seen any credible studies or evidence that Omega-3 is an effective treatment against mental disorders in children? If so, then what are the recommended doses. Thanks in advance — John Paul 11. January 25, 2008 12:05 pm Link What is your opinion on pediatric vitamins if children eat a balanced diet with fruits and vegetables every day?  Also, what is the required amount of calcium a child (aged 4-6) should have and what are the best alternate sources if the child does not drink milk?  For example, is one yoghurt and a cheese triangle enough?  We live in a country that does not have calcium enriched orange juice or other enriched foods (Slovakia). — Valeria Laitinen 12. January 25, 2008 7:05 am Link Hi, Alan– I like your website, and I use it a lot to check on my kids’ ailments. I appreciated your weighing in on a recent internet bust-up with the irate Scott Haig deploring his “patients who Google” and Rahul Parikh writing on Salon that patients who Google are doing something good. Everything Scott Haig said underlines a problem I sometimes have with doctors: what’s up with their arrogance? I’ve had many great doctors that I loved. But I’ve probably had even more who irked me with their egos–the whole, “I’m Dr. Such-and-Such,” while they use my first name. Does med school teach this? Is it our society’s bizarre elevation of the medical profession? (Is it just me?) I truly feel this gets in the way of a good relationship with my doctors. Don’t they think I’m as bright as they are? Thanks for any insights. — M.A. Wilson 13. January 24, 2008 4:07 pm Link My 16-MO daughter is constantly getting sick (exposure to lots of other kids). What’s your opinion on Purell and other instant hand sanitizers — are the chemicals dangerous, or is the germ-free benefit worth the risk? — Julianna Gustafson 14. January 25, 2008 7:45 am Link I am curious about your thoughts on the environmental impact of disposable diapers versus cloth — with our sons, we’ve used cloth diapers through a diaper service, but I’ve heard some people say that the energy/resources used to wash these diapers cancel out any eco-benefits. Is that really true? Washing them ourselves, which I imagine is the most eco-friendly choice, is not really a viable option for us. I’m also curious about the newer flushable diapers, but haven’t tried them. Would appreciate your expert thoughts :) — Emily 15. January 23, 2008 8:02 am Link Hi- my son is 21 months old- we are bilingual and want him to learn both English and Spanish.  We mostly speak Spanish to him but would like him to understand both- do you have any tips on how to juggle both languages and make sure not to impede or confuse his development?  Should one be taught before the other or is it better to do it simultaneously? thanks- your website has been very helpful! — Claudia 16. January 24, 2008 1:12 pm Link I am breastfeeding a toddler (almost 2 years old.) Most of my friends and coworkers think this is bizarre. I know it is none of their business, but I do — in my own defense — cite the recommendation by the WHO that babies be given breast milk for the first 24 months. My child eats all the table food that her father and I eat and is a good eater in general (including cow’s milk, cheese and yogurt). My friends say the WHO recommendation is for impoverished “third-world” children who do not have access to the myriad foods we have in the U.S. and that my child gets no nutritional benefit from breast milk. Are they right? — Claudia 17. January 24, 2008 3:13 pm Link The pediatric dentist found my 2.5 y/o daughter has more than 7 cavities. I brush her teeth twice a day and avoid candies, so I am in shock. The doctor is recommending general anesthesia to fix her whole mouth at once. Sounds too risky to me. She suggests keeping the cavities is even more risky than anesthesia. What do you think? — Ana Aslan 18. January 24, 2008 12:45 pm Link There is a lot of Web information on transient tics, but not much guidance for natural ways to deal with them in a non-ADHD or non-OCD child. Has there been any research on natural remedies or vitamin therapies that have shown promise, or anything that should be avoided in diet or exposure to control tics? — Kim Austin 19. January 24, 2008 8:00 am Link What about the use of probiotics to combat colic in a newborn baby (1 to 3 months old)? Do you recommend giving probiotics to a baby, even if the case of colic is borderline? — Harry Ledderson 20. January 24, 2008 12:02 pm Link My 4-year-old son was diagnosed with an ear infection last week. The only symptom was a low fever and hearing loss. There was no pain and very minimal mucus. Is there anything we can do about the hearing loss? We have chosen not to use antibiotics at this time. Is there any danger in it becoming permanent? I am concerned because I had frequent ear infections as a child, had tubes put in twice and have significant hearing loss as a result myself. — Robert Lee 21. January 23, 2008 1:37 pm Link I am aware of the recommendation that babies under 2 should not WATCH television. But is it harmful for babies to merely SEE television? If, for example, a baby is in the room where adults are watching television (something as seemingly harmless as a baseball game) and looks at the screen for a few minutes, will that hurt the baby in some way? If so, at what age is this danger diminished? — E. Murphy 22. January 23, 2008 12:50 pm Link My husband and I are about to have our first child. (We’re really excited.) Is there anything we absolutely should or should not do during the first few months after we have our child? Thanks! — Anne Guzman 23. January 23, 2008 11:20 am Link Hello, doctor… My three year old has been diagnosed with asthma and prescribed albulterol in a nebulizer. We have worked with homeopathy for her entire life and have never needed to use this type of treatment. I am very concerned about the long (and short) term effects of these steroids on her overall health… do you have any suggestions to help me not use this type of medicine? She does have a rattling cough and a stuffy nose. — audra alexxi jones 24. January 23, 2008 12:05 pm Link Childcare facilities enroll children usually at 6 to 8 weeks of age, but sometimes as young as 4 weeks. In terms of exposure and the immune system, is there any harm in enrolling an infant who is 7 to 8 weeks of age into a program? If you had your druthers, what age would you suggest? — Josh Baugh 25. January 22, 2008 9:05 am Link Thanks so much for your comments. When it comes to evaluating the evidence of remedies for children, my rubric (my Greene Ratio) is to consider the targeted benefit over the time-tested risk, aiming for the highest ratio available. I say “time-tested” because some risks, like strokes in teenage girls from the decongestant phenylpropanolamine, don’t become evident for years or even decades after a medication is approved. If the time tested-risk is minimal, I’m willing to accept less proof of benefit; if the benefit in the target population is substantial, I’m willing to accept more risk. With over-the-counter cough and cold medicines in young children, there is no convincing evidence of benefit, and there is evidence of rare but serious risk — a very low ratio. Heated, humidified air for the common cold has been evaluated by the Cochrane Database of Systematic Review s, on the theory that water vapor may help mucus drain better and may help destroy cold viruses. They evaluated six randomized controlled trials. Three found significant symptom relief; three were not able to detect a difference. None of the randomized controlled trials showed worsening of the symptoms. The Cochrane author suggests waiting for double-blinded trials before making a recommendation. To me, this already has a better Greene ratio, with more evidence of benefit and less evidence of harm than the billions of dose of over-the-counter cold medications given to children (and often recommended by physicians). Plus, when I have a cold, I feel better in a steamy bathroom. So do my kids. So did my grandmother. I am very glad you raised the point about scald burns with humidifiers. The latest review of this subject, pre-released in October 2007, found, like the Cochrane review, no evidence of airway scalds from hot vapor. However, they did find some serious scald burns in kids who had put their hands into the vapor-producing device, or when hot liquid had spilled. Keep out of reach of children! When children are old enough to be mobile, I far prefer sitting with them for a few minutes in a closed bathroom while the shower is running to a device that might cause injury. I don’t own a humidifier; I did when my children were young babies. Colds are most common, and other remedies least available, when kids are 6 to 12 months old. — Dr. Alan Greene 1 2 3 Next » Comments are no longer being accepted. Search This Blog Search Previous Post A New You: Dr. Richard A. Friedman on Mental Health Next Post A New You: Jane E. Brody on Nutrition Follow This Blog RSS Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2012 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms o