
The Magnesium Miracle by Carolyn Dean, M.D., N.D. | Jigsaw Health The Magnesium Miracle In The Magnesium Miracle, Dr. Carolyn Dean — an authority on this mineral who has used it with dramatic success in her own practice — explains the vital role that magnesium plays in the control of many serious ailments from painful muscle spasms and bladder problems to traumatic brain injury and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Dr. Carolyn Dean Dr. Carolyn Dean is a medical doctor, naturopath, and nutritionist. She is a recognized authority in conventional and alternative medicine. The Magnesium Miracle More than seventy-five years ago, medical scientists declared magnesium to be an essential nutrient, indispensable to life. When this mineral is part of your diet, you are guarding against and helping to alleviate health threats such as heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, diabetes, depression, arthritis, and asthma. But while research continues to reaffirm magnesium's irreplaceable contribution to good health, many Americans remain dangerously deficient. In The Magnesium Miracle , Dr. Carolyn Dean — an authority on this mineral who has used it with dramatic success in her own practice — explains the vital role that magnesium plays in the control of many serious ailments from painful muscle spasms and bladder problems to traumatic brain injury and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Whether you need help with a serious health problem or merely want to protect the good health you already enjoy, The Magnesium Miracle will provide valuable insight. It may even save your life. Magnesium (Mg) deficiency triggers or causes the following conditions and taking magnesium can either eliminate or help alleviate these conditions: Anxiety and Panic attacks - Mg normally keeps adrenal stress hormones under control. Asthma - Both histamine production and bronchial spasms increase with Mg deficiency. Blood clots - Mg has an important role to play in preventing blood clots and keeping the blood thin - much like aspirin but without the side effects. Bowel Disease - Mg deficiency slows down the bowel causing constipation, which could lead to toxicity and malabsorption of nutrients, as well as colitis. Cystitis - Bladder spasms are worsened by Mg deficiency. Depression - Serotonin, which elevates moods, is dependent on Mg. A Mg-deficient brain is also more susceptible to allergens, foreign substances that can cause symptoms similar to mental illness. Detoxification - Mg is crucial for the removal of toxic substances and heavy metals such as aluminum and lead. Diabetes - Mg enhances insulin secretion, facilitating sugar metabolism. Without Mg insulin is not able to transfer glucose into cells. Glucose and insulin build up in the blood causing various types of tissue damage. Fatigue - Mg-deficient patients commonly experience fatigue because dozens of enzyme systems are under-functioning. An early symptom of Mg deficiency is frequently fatigue. Heart disease - Mg deficiency is common in people with heart disease. Mg is administered in hospitals for acute myocardial infarction and cardiac arrhythmia. Like any other muscle, the heart muscle requires Mg. Mg is also used to treat angina, or chest pain. Hypertension - With insufficient Mg, spasm of blood vessels and high cholesterol occur, both of which lead to blood pressure problems. Hypoglycemia - Mg keeps insulin under control; without Mg episodes of low blood sugar can result. Insomnia - Sleep-regulating melatonin production is disturbed without sufficient Mg. Kidney Disease - Mg deficiency contributes to atherosclerotic kidney failure. Mg deficiency creates abnormal lipid levels and worsening blood sugar control in kidney transplant patients. Liver Disease leading to liver failure - Mg deficiency commonly occurs during liver transplantation. Migraine - Serotonin balance is Mg-dependent. Deficiency of serotonin can result in migraine headaches and depression. Musculoskeletal conditions - Fibrositis, fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, eye twitches, cramps and chronic neck and back pain may be caused by Mg deficiency and can be relieved with Mg supplements. Nerve problems - Mg alleviates peripheral nerve disturbances throughout the whole body, such as migraines, muscle contractions, gastrointestinal spasms, and calf, foot and toe cramps. It is also used in treating central nervous symptoms of vertigo and confusion. Obstetrics and Gynecology - Mg prevents Premenstrual Syndrome; prevents dysmenorrhea (cramping pain during menses); is important in the treatment of infertility; and alleviates premature contractions, preeclampsia, and eclampsia in pregnancy. Intravenous Mg is given in obstetrical wards for pregnancy-induced hypertension and to lessen the risk of cerebral palsy and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Mg should be a required supplement for pregnant mothers. Osteoporosis - Use of calcium with Vitamin D to enhance calcium absorption without a balancing amount of Mg causes further Mg deficiency, which triggers a cascade of events leading to bone loss. Raynaud’s Syndrome - Mg helps relax the spastic blood vessels that cause pain and numbness of the fingers. Tooth decay - Mg deficiency causes an unhealthy balance of phosphorus and calcium in saliva, which damages teeth. Learn more by reading this brief synopsis of The Magnesium Miracle now! The Magnesium Miracle Reviews “Every doctor and patient should read this comprehensive book on the many roles of magnesium. . . . I loved this book. Clearly written and packed with information, it offers a compendium on natural medicine and is an invaluable resource for both practitioner and public alike. It is the most comprehensive and well referenced guide to the myriad benefits of magnesium published to date.” – Dr. Carolyn DeMarco Author of Take Charge of Your Body: Women’s Health Advisor “Throughout this volume and with utmost clarity, Carolyn Dean presents invaluable recommendations–based on the latest magnesium research. Virtually every American can benefit.” – Paul Pitchford Author of Healing With Whole Foods: Asian Traditions and Modern Nutrition (3rd Edition) “Physicians and therapists have paid scant attention to this very important element, which is also involved in maintaining our good health. The massive evidence is here in this important book on magnesium. I am pleased to have been taking magnesium for so many years.” – Abram Hoffer, M.D. Author of Putting It All Together: The New Orthomolecular Nutrition Material excerpted from Dean, Carolyn. The Magnesium Miracle (Ballantine Books: NY, NY. 2007.) Amazon Review (from www.carolyndean.com): "Magnesium is extremely important for good health. Yet for far too many years this vital mineral has been largely overlooked by most doctors. Shockingly, most laboratory blood tests do not even measure magnesium status although magnesium is involved as an essential factor in more aspects of health than any other mineral. Since magnesium status is rarely measured, most doctors don’t know when their patients are deficient in magnesium, even though about 80% of Americans are deficient in this essential mineral. And magnesium deficiency is a significant factor — often the primary factor — in many severe illnesses including heart attacks and other forms of heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, anxiety and panic attacks, depression, fatigue, migraines and other headaches, osteoporosis, insomnia, and most cases of muscular problems. Because magnesium deficiency is largely overlooked, millions of Americans suffer needlessly from the foregoing ailments or are having their symptoms treated with expensive drugs (which often have unpleasant or dangerous side effects) when they could be cured with magnesium supplementation. This excellent and easily-readable new book by Dr. Dean (an up-to-date revision and expansion of her ground-breaking book, The Miracle of Magnesium ) discusses these and other important aspects of this vital mineral in detail. Everyone who is concerned about his or her health should acquire and read this very important book, even if you already own its earlier version. So should their doctors. And the vast majority of Americans should increase their magnesium intake by suitable diet and appropriate supplementation as Dr. Dean recommends. Those who do will very likely find themselves free of many ailments they may now have." You can buy this book right now at Amazon . * These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
        This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. - Print
                    This - Back to Top Need Help? Call us Toll Free 1-866-601-5800 between 9am - 5pm Mountain Standard Time Email Us - Text Your Order click to Chat Online Your Account Check your order status Quick Re-Order Checkout / View Your Cart Log Out About Jigsaw Health Why'd we start this company? Meet the team Sign up for our newsletter Follow us on Twitter Top-Rated, Best-Selling Products Jigsaw Magnesium w/ SRT® Relaxes muscles, back pain, leg cramps Jigsaw Complete™ - Daily Packets Premium daily vitamin supplement Magnesium-Calcium Packets Dynamic duo of minerals Essential Blend Probiotics Eases gastrointestinal problems 5-HTP w/SRT® Reduce stress and anxiety Jigsaw Vitamin C w/SRT® Improve immunity All Jigsaw Health Products Totally Random Customer Testimonial Generator Thingy We are very pleased with the probiotic.  We have tried other brands, but like yours the best.  This is our second ( or third? ) order of them.  We tried a bundle of products the first order, but the other products didn't agree with us very well. We called your company and received our money back on the products we didn't like.  We were VERY impressed with your companys stand behind their products and the customer service.  I know we will keep ordering probiotics from you.  I am also impressed that you are taking the time to check in with customers. Thank you! - Stormy M. More Customer Quotes... Privacy Policy Wholesale Program Affiliate Program ©2012 Jigsaw Health , LLC. All Rights Reserved. Legal 15863 N. Greenway-Hayden Loop, Ste 120 Scottsdale , AZ 85260 Phone: 1-866-601-5800 1-866-601-5800 Live Chat My Account Cart Produ