Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Yoga DVD for Eye Problems, Yoga DVD for Child Eye, Eyes Care DVD by Swami Ramdev Ji Home A to Z Herbal Supplements / Ayurvedic Stores Yoga DVD / VCD / Books Customer support / Shipping Contact Us Yoga DVD Pranayama & Yoga Exercises DVD Yoga DVD for Beginners of All Age Yoga DVD for Diabetes Yoga DVD for Asthma Yoga DVD for Spinal Cord Yoga DVD for Eye Problems Yoga DVD for Cancer Yoga DVD for Children Yoga DVD for Childless Couple Yoga DVD for Various Ailments Yoga DVD for Life Style Yoga DVD for Muscular Dystrophy Yoga DVD for Weight Loss Yoga DVD for Women Yoga DVD for High BP DVD for Parkinson & Paralysis Yoga DVD for Skin Diseases Yoga DVD for Youth VCD Divya Yoga Sadhna VCD in English / Hindi Yog Science (Pranayama & Yog Assan) Yoga VCD for Childless Couples Yoga VCD for reducing Obecity VCD for Reducing Diabetes Yoga VCD for Heart diseases Yoga VCD for Asthma Yoga VCD for Back Bone Yoga VCD for Stomach Ailments Yoga VCD for Cancer VCD for Pregnant Ladies Yoga VCD for Women Yoga VCD for Youth Yoga VCD for Kids Yoga VCD on Yoga & Lifestyle Yoga VCD for Weekly Yoga Teacher Yoga VCD for Parkinson Yoga VCD for Paralysis Yoga VCD for Piles Yoga VCD for Skin Diseases Yoga VCD for High Blood Pressure Yoga VCD for Eye Diseases Yoga VCD for Epilepsy Yoga VCD for Migraine Yoga VCD for Muscular Dystrophy Yoga VCD for Various Diseases Yoga VCD for Musculoskeletal Disorders Yoga VCD for Constipation & Piles Yoga VCD for Kidney Yoga VCD for Leucoderma Yoga VCD for Heapatitis & Jaundice VCD for Misconceptions, Risks & Precautions of Yoga Dahn (Dhyan) Yoga VCD Yoga Somnia (Conscious Sleep) VCD VCD for Eight Yogic Practices Yoga Books Pranayama (Its philosophy & Practice) Pranayama Rahasya in Hindi Yog Its Philosophy & Practice Yog Sadhna and Yog Chikitsa Rahasya (Hindi) Yog Sadhna Yoga Healing Secrets Yog in Synergy with Medical Sciences Ayurvedic Siddhant Rahasya. Divya Aushadhi, Sugandhit Avam Saundaryakaran Paudh Jeevani Shakti Vardhak Ashtavarg Paadap Vitality Strengthening Astavarga Plants Aushadh Darshan in Hindi Aushadh Darshan in English Jadi Bhooti Rahasya Yoga DVD for Eye Problems DVD for Eye Problems by Swami Ramdev Ji in English & Hindi both in one DVD Your Price 1 Qty : $16.99 Free Shipping Worldwide Yoga can help greatly in the  improvement of eyesight of an individual. Yoga exercises, which involve  movement of the eyes and their rotation in different directions helps to  improve the sight of the individuals. Lifting the eyes up and down and blinking  them while not at work serves as a great exercise for improving the eyesight of  the individual. Keeping eyes focused at one point helps in increasing the  concentration of the individual. It also aids to increase memory power of  people so that they can take up the daily chores with great responsibility with  better devotion and dedication. The eye movements should be steady and one  should feel relaxed and comfortable while practicing them. These eye exercises  as a part of yoga, help in providing you freedom from various diseases of the  eyes. It also helps to improve the vision of an individual. Gazing exercise  (Trataka) activity of yoga also improves the vision. It helps in bringing  positivism in the mind and the body and helps to purify one internally so as to  have a better vision of the surroundings. This posture of yoga should be  practiced in silence and one should carry out them without blinking the eyes in  any case. One can gaze on any object which helps one focus, either a deity one  believes in or any other imagination which helps in getting rid from the  negativity and usher in all positive thoughts in the mind. This posture should  be practiced without straining any body parts. Other exercises like Pranayam  and meditation also help the individual to treat the eyes of any ailments and  it also increases the concentration and devotion in the work. According to yoga  there is one third eye of the humans which exists between the eyebrows. One should  always try to concentrate on this particular third eye. It boosts one's  concentration and meditation and imparts capability with simple breathing  exercises. Meditation exercises should also  be carried along with Pranayam (breathing exercises). Breath should be held for  quite some time so that the effect of the treatment stays longer. Pranayama  helps in increasing concentration and taking up Pranayama exercises on regular  basis helps one to provide sure treatment to a wide variety of eye diseases. It  provides freedom from various eye diseases and also increases one's memory  power and at the same time increases concentration in work thereby increasing  productivity. Since the ancient times yoga has  helped to improve the physical as well as the mental condition of an  individual. Also in yoga are various measures which when followed result in  great benefit in various disorders. Various yogic practices that can be  followed for eye care are Yoga sun gazing, Eye accommodation, Eye squeezing,  nasal massage, head lift techniques and various other measures. Yoga Sun Gazing: In yoga sun gazing was used as a means to  completely fill the body, mind and soul with the healing power of solar light  and meditate. The most appropriate way to do so was to go outside at sunrise or  sunset when the solar light is orange or reddish orange in color and rays  coming out are a bit weaker in strength one must open his eyes wide taking in  nine deep breaths (inhaling and exhaling gently) while looking towards the sun.  Y You can easily feel the energy of sun traveling  through your body into various systems and Chakras. After this now gently cover your eyes with your  palms for a few minutes. Relaxing your eyes and releasing out the stress and  tension in your mind, and eyes. But while performing this gaze one must take  care to not to gaze too long and also the strength of sun rays should be  appropriate to gaze on (sunset or sunrise). Accommodation Exercises for Eye (Improving  distant vision): Various yogic exercises benefit the eyes by  means of giving strength to the eye muscles as well as improving the eye sight.  Thus these exercises help the human eye to improve its ability to change its  focus and see distant objects clearly. As with progressive age we know that the  accommodative eye muscles get weakened. But if an individual continues to use  and exercise these muscles regularly eye sight will remain strong throughout  the life. Hold a card or place it at a distance now look  and read out the letters on it after a while start looking at an object at  least 20 feet away e.g. a car, building or tree. Repeat this three to four times a day. Then look  at an object about 20 to 30 feet away than the first object. Repeat the eye  movements back and forth at least three times. Continue to do looking at  objects to a further distance. Accommodation Exercise for Eye (Improving  near vision): Pick up a distant object at the distance of 20  feet or more and hold in your hands letters in black clear enough to be seen. Hold a card at the eye level at arms length. Now  look at the distant object for few moments now move your eyes back to the  letter on the card. Now look towards outside as far as you can for a  while now look back at your card for a while repeat this in same way by first  looking at the card and the at a distance further then the previous. And then at a point when you stop seeing or  vision is blurred now close your eyes for a few moments relaxing them. Now begin rubbing your hands and palms together  with each other so they get warm enough now place these palms on each of your  eyes. Relax and enchant “OM”. Ayurvedic Products Choorna ( Powders ) Bhasmas ( herbs/metal ) Guggulu Kvath (Herbs Mixture) Ras (herbal essence) Vati / Tablets Home Remedies & Diseases and Package Acidity and Hyperacidity Adenitis / Tumor growth AMA (Toxic By product) Amenorrhea Asthma Cataract Cervical Spondylitis Chronic Headache Chronic Renal Failure Chronic Rhinitis Cirrhosis of Liver Constipation Coronary Artery Disease Coryza Deafness Depression Diabetes Mellitus Diarrhoea Eczema Epilepsy Erectile Dysfunction Fibroid Uterus Flatulence Gastric Trouble Genital Diseases Glaucoma Gout Hepatitis-A B C Hernia High Blood Pressure Impotency in Males Infertility Joint Pain Leucoderma Menorrhagia Mental Retardation Migraine Mongoloid Children Multiple Sclerosis Obesity Oligospermia Osteoporosis Otorrahagia Parkinsonism Pimples or Acne Vulgaris Premature Ejaculation Psoriasis Sciatica Sinusitis Sprue Syndrome Thalassemia Tympanitis Ulcerative Colitis Health Products Shortcuts Divya Amla Churna for Eyes, Digestion and General Health Divya Arshakalp Vati for Piles Divya Ashmarihar Ras for Kidney Stones Divya Ashwagandha Churna for Stress, Fatigue and General Health Divya Chandraprabha Vati for Urinary Disease Divya Churna for Constipation Divya Dant Manjan Tooth Powder Divya Gashar Churna for Removal of Gas Divya Hridayamrita Vati for Heart Disease Divya Kanti Lep for Increasing Skin Splendour Divya Kayakalp Tail Oil for Skin Problems, Cracks and Burns Divya Kayakalp Vati for Skin Disease, Acne and Pimples Divya Kesh Tail Hair Oil for Hair Loss, Dandruff and Headache Divya Madhu Nashini Vati for Diabeties Divya Madhukalp Vati for Diabetes Divya Medha Kwath for Headache and Memory Enhancement Divya Medha Vati for Memory Loss and Improving Intelligence Divya Medohar Vati for Weight Loss Divya Mukta Vati for High Blood Pressure Divya Peya Herbal Tea Divya Pidantak Ras for Joint Pain and Arthritis Divya Pidantak Tail Massage Oil for Joint Pain and Arthritis Divya Punarnavadi Mandur for Kidney Problems and Anemia Divya Sanjivani Vati for Cold, Fever and Flu Divya Shilajeet Rasayan Vati for Impotency Divya Shilajeet Sat for Gout and Weak Immune System Divya Singhnaad Guggulu for Rheumatism Divya Stri Rasayan Vati for Menstruation Divya Swasari Ras for Lung Problems, Bronchitis and Asthma Divya Triphala Churna for Rejuvination Divya Triphala Guggulu for Joint Pain, Piles and Weight Loss Divya Udaramrita Vati for Digestion and Stomache Problems Divya Udarkalp Churna for Indigestion and Constipation Divya Vatari Churna for Arthritis Divya Yauvanamrita Vati for Weak Bodies and Impotency Divya Yograj Guggulu for Joint Pain © All Rights Reserved 2009.www.swamiramdevmedicines.com  | About Us | Customer Service | Testimonials | Contact Us | Sitemap 1 | Sitemap 2 Disclaimer : The information offered on the displayed page is not proposed to reinstate the guidance of a doctor approved in the diagnosing or healing of disease or ailments. Any submission of the material in above content is at the reader's prudence and own accountability. If you have a constant health state or your symptoms are rigorous, seek advice from a well qualified medical doctor. Content on the above page about physical and mental conditions and remedies have not been checked by the U.S. FDA. www.swamiramdevmedicines.com claims no responsibility for any content and remedies mention any where on this website. IMPORTANT/DISCLAIMER : swamiramdevmedicines.com is not official website of Swami Ramdev Ji. swamiramdevmedicines.com is a FREE INFORMATION website & to share experience about Swami Ramdev's Yoga and Products. We have no intention to hurt anyone, please use this information at your own understanding. swamiramdevmedicines.com DOES NOT gurantee of completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the swamiramdevmedicines.com or the information. if you are looking for Swam