Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

OurHealthNetwork.com - Orthaheel Relief 3/4 Length Orthotic Insoles 0 items | $0.00 | View Cart Home > Medical Products Store > Medical Products Store Find Products: Select a Body Part Foot Knee Arm/Hand Cosmetic Dermatology Back/Spine Shoulder Physical Therapy General Medical Choose How to Search By Conditions By Product Type By Manufacturer Pick Your Condition SELECT * FROM STORE_DEPARTMENTS WHERE PARENT_ID = 43 AND IS_INACTIVE IS NULL ORDER BY LFT Achilles Tendonitis Ankle Pain/ Sprain Arch Pain Arthritis Athlete's Foot Blisters & Shoe Irritations Bunions Calluses & Ball of Foot Pain Corns and Hammertoes Diabetes Drop Foot Dry and Cracked Skin Flat Feet (or Flat Arches) Foot Odor Fractures, broken bones Heel Pain Heel Spur Nail Fungus Neuropathy Physical Therapy Plantar Fasciitis Pronation Scars (Thick and/or Painful) Shin Splints Toenail Problems Warts Wounds & Infections Search by Keyword: Medical Products Store Orthaheel Relief 3/4 Length Orthotic Insoles Orthaheel's Relief 3/4-length orthotic p rovides outstanding shock absorption and comfort for those who stand or walk for long periods of time. Similar to the Releif Full Length Orthotic Insole. Fits in a wider variety of shoes due to its slimmer, cut-away profile; a perfect choice for both men's and women's flat or low-heeled footwear. Orthaheel orthotic insoles are podiatrist-designed to provide outstanding shock absorption, while comfortably realigning the foot to reduce excess pronation, so you can walk pain free. The built-in Tri-Planar Motion control technology features a uniquely contoured arch and a deep heel cup design that helps improve stability and provides effective relief from plantar fasciitis, flat feet, heel pain, pronation, arch pain, tired-achy feet, knee pain, back pain and aching legs. So you can stand taller, walk longer! Features and Benefits: Podiatrist-designed as a cost-effective alternative to custom-made orthotics. Doctor recommended to support and cushion the foot. Designed for everyday use: fits all types of men’s and women's fashion and casual footwear. Ideal for flat- or low-heeled shoes without removable insoles. 4 degree rearfoot wedge helps align the foot and reduces mild pronation (foot rolling inward) without overcorrecting. Orthaheel's Tri-Planar Motion Control system provides biomechanically designed support and stability to help regain dynamic foot function. Features heel pad for increased shock absorption. Soft 100% polyester microfiber topcloth has EcoFresh® earth friendly microbe shield technology to help safeguard against odor-causing bacteria. Each insole is contoured around the heel and arch areas to achieve 100% foot contact. The comfortably cushioned, built-in rear foot wedge helps provide support and control, which helps prevent excess pronation. May trim front of insoles with a scissors for a customized fit. Doctor Recommended For: Plantar fasciitis. Heel spurs. Pronation. Arch pain. Tired-achy feet. Knee pain and aching legs. Lower back pain. Save by ordering Orthaheel orthotic insoles here. Shipping within the continental United States: available within the continental United States only we do not ship to P.O. Box addresses standard shipping only (2nd day and next day not available) Click here for shipping information outside the continental United States Sizing Recommendation: Order by women's and men's shoe sizes. . Order Women's Shoe Size Men's Shoe Size X-small 4 1/2 - 6 Small 6 1/2 - 8 5 - 7 Medium 8 1/2 - 10 7.5 - 9 Large 10 1/2 - 12 9.5 - 11 X-Large 11 1/2 - 13 Attributes Sizes: : x-small small medium (OUT OF STOCK) large x-large (OUT OF STOCK) Product Number: 10308 Price: $34.95 / Pair Quantity: Recommend to a Friend | Newsletter Sign Up | Ask Our Doctor | Medical Conditions | Medical Products Store | Medical Definitions | About Us | Contact Us | Testimonials | Policies © 2006 OurH