<http://wp.me/p10bzV-1wI>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 05:09:27 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: c777e29a772fd7480a82c112f4c30a25
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 04:09:27 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

Sources of Calcium - Magnesium Sources - Phosphorus Vitamins  | GreenHerbalRemedies.com Beauty Tips Health Care Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Men's Health Sexual Vitamins Women's Health Home » Vitamins » Great Trio: Calcium Magnesium and Phosphorus Great Trio: Calcium Magnesium and Phosphorus 12 March, 2010 Written by writer Tweet These three vitamins have more benefits than just one. Dietitians suggest that the best way to consume these minerals is by taking them in the proportion of 2 equal parts of calcium and phosphorus to one part of magnesium. Responsibilities Calcium has mild tranquilizing affect hence a glass of milk at night can help one relax and sleep better. It is the most abundant mineral in the body and is the basic constitute of the skeleton structure. Calcium ions, along with potassium ions are able to make the Calcium-potassium pump functional. It operates in heart and also in many muscles for energy production. The mineral is found to be helpful in providing protection against bowel cancer and pre-mature ageing. Magnesium is necessarily needed to help release energy for production of new cells. They help in relaxation of arteries and aid in lowering high blood pressure . Phosphorus improves functioning of vitamin B-complex and boosts production of energy in the body. Natural Sources Calcium is found in all milk products, nuts, molasses and beans. It works best in combination with vitamin D. Nuts and whole grains are all good source of magnesium. Poultry, meats eggs and seeds are natural source of phosphorus. Who Needs to Take Extra? If daily diet comprises mainly of processed foods, caffeine, excess protein or sugary/salty products then supplementation is necessary. Calcium and magnesium are prescribed to women suffering from heavy and painful periods. Pregnant women and lactating mothers are highly recommended to consume foods that are rich in these two minerals. Extra phosphorus is required for those who consume large amounts of alcohol. People suffering from osteoporoses should take supplementation of phosphorus. Deficiency Muscle weakness, low immunity, loss of appetite, cramps, cataract and insomnia are some of the conditions and signs that suggest deficiency of these minerals. Mineral Toxicity Calcium, magnesium and phosphorus are easily eliminated by the body. When these mineral are balanced with respect to each other then there is no toxicity but in case of an imbalance serious health disorders may develop. If magnesium is low and calcium is relatively high then calcium may get deposited in soft tissues and cause kidney stones, abdominal pain, chronic constipation and loss of appetite. Likewise, if magnesium is in excess as compared with calcium then muscles weakness and early fatigue is experienced. If you enjoyed this post, please consider leaving a comment or subscribing to the RSS feed. Tweet Tags: magnesium sources, phosphorus vitamins, sources of calcium, Subscribe to Magazine Follow @ayushveda Popular No More Sun Tan - 2,256 views Home Exercises For Gas Removal - 1,887 views What Is A Test Tube Baby? - 1,580 views Arouse Your Women Easily - 1,550 views Eyelashes: Thick, Long and Shiny - 1,549 views Natural Blood Thinners - 1,446 views Pink Lips for Every Women - 1,312 views Breast Beautification Naturally - 1,304 views Foods That Make You Fertile - 1,171 views Make Your Skin Blemish Free - 1,136 views Benefits of Buttermilk - 964 views How To Remove Hangover - 869 views Why do Men Urinate Frequently at Night? - 799 views Tuberculosis of Spine - 675 views Sutton`s Disease: Cause and Prevention - 643 views Recent Posts How To Diagnosis Gastric Cancer 7 Home Remedies For An Abscessed Tooth The Difference Between HIV And AIDS Home Remedies For Baby Yeast Infection Complete Information On Pancreatic Cancer Diagnosis Diagnosis & Treatments Of Cancer Home Remedy For Water Weight Gain How To Diagnose Blood Cancer All About Fever And Acute HIV Syndrome 7 Harmful Effects Of Chemotherapy 8 Foods To Improve Libido 12 Foods That Improve Cholesterol 3 Dangerous Herbs That Cause Memory Loss How To Cure Yeast Infections In Women With Home Remedies Natural Cures For Strep Throat Recent Posts How To Diagnosis Gastric Cancer 7 Home Remedies For An Abscessed Tooth The Difference Between HIV And AIDS Home Remedies For Baby Yeast Infection Complete Information On Pancreatic Cancer Diagnosis Proud Theme of... Follow Us Subscribe Rss Feed Follow us on Twitter Join Facebook Copyright © 2012 GreenHe