<http://www.facts-about-insomnia.com/?p=72>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
X-Pad: avoid browser bug

The Use Of Traditional Chinese Medicine To Cure Insomnia Naturally Facts About Insomnia Your guide to insomnia – its causes, symptoms and treatments. The Use Of Traditional Chinese Medicine To Cure Insomnia Naturally Today’s use of traditional Chinese medicine combines thousands of years of Chinese medical practice which includes the use of Chinese medicine to cure insomnia naturally. ‘Traditional Chinese medicine’ is a reasonably new term that was first used by the People’s Republic of China during the 1950s when that country was attempting to create a significant export trade for its time honored medical practices and medicines. Today, traditional Chinese medicine does not merely cover medicinal products, but also includes things like herbal preparations and several practices including acupuncture and massage. The basis of Chinese medicine is that the body works as the result of various interconnected processes that are continuosly interaction with our environment. While these processes stay in balance you are healthy but, if these processes are not running alongside one another smoothly, your health suffers. There are several philosophies which govern Chinese medicine including such things as the theory of Yin-Yang which looks at the role of the five elements (fire, earth, water, wood and metal), energy flow along the meridians of the body and the relationships between the body’s organs as described in the theory of Zang-Fu. For many years there has been considerable conflict between people who believe in traditional Chinese medical practices and those who believe in the science-based practice of Western medicine. Today however Chinese medicine, along with other types of Oriental and Asian medicine, is being increasingly accepted in the West and we often refer to such practices as alternative medicine. For the many millions of sufferers herbal remedies have long proved to be effective in curing insomnia, or in relieving the symptoms of insomnia, and things like lavender, chamomile, passion flower and lemon balm have long been known for their medicinal properties. There can be very few insomniacs who have not had a hot drink of lemon balm with honey before retiring for the night. A growing number of people are also turning to acupuncture or, for people who do not like the though of needles, acupressure. Both arts have been practiced for many hundreds of years and the principles were born out of the traditional Chinese practice of adjusting the energy in the body by controlling its flow along the body’s meridian lines. Despite its growing acceptance there are still many people who are distrustful of Chinese medicine. However anybody who has first-hand experience of it in action, particularly those of us who have been fortunate enough as I have to live in the Far East, will certainly vouch for its effectiveness. If you suffer from insomnia then Chinese medicine is one route which you should consider seriously and a good place to start is with a simple herbal remedy for insomnia . Content Facts about Insomnia Top Ten Insomnia Tips Causes General Information Symptoms Treatments Sponsored Links Latest News [CaRP] XML error: syntax error at line 1 - Search this Site XML/RSS Feed Posts © Copyright 2012 - http://www.facts-about-insomnia.com 3Column SEO WordPress Theme by EasyWebTutorials.com ::: powered by WordPress IMPORTANT NOTICE/DISCLAIMER: We have put every effort into providing you with accurate information about insomnia and related subjects, but we do not accept liability for any losses or damages which may occur from the use of any information or products from this website. We are not doctors and the information provided on this website should not be taken as medical advice. Please contact your physician with any medical questions or