
Kitsap Physical Therapy...Back & Neck We have a culture of compassionate professionalism where our 
			employees can make a difference and we are looking for like minded, 
			dynamic individuals to come and join our rapidly expanding team. Click Here All of our therapists have extensive knowledge and skills in the 
			treatment of spinal pain. Treatments are based upon the findings of a thorough 
			evaluation of the joints, muscles, ligaments and other structures 
			that can be sources of pain and dysfunction. Treatments are directed 
			towards alleviating pain, regaining range of motion and improving 
			strength. Treatments may include pain relieving modalities such as 
			ultrasound and electrical stimulation, plus the use of deep 
			myofascial release or massage to address any chronic soft tissue 
			restrictions and injuries. Regimes also include joint mobilization 
			and other manual techniques to restore pain-free mobility. As pain 
			subsides we will direct you through a individual program of 
			stretching and strengthening for involved and core muscles returning 
			you to your recreation activities and activities of daily living 
			with improved body mechanics and protection from re-injury. Physical Therapy can help acute and 
			chronic neck and back pain resulting from a variety of diagnoses. 
			Types of conditions include, but are not limited to: Neck and lumbar sprains and 
				strains Degenerative disk and joint 
				disease of the spine Bulging or slipped disks Stenosis Myofascial pain of the back or 
				neck Chronic headaches TMJ dysfunction Ideal 
			Candidates for Physical Therapy: In order for Physical Therapy to be truly effective, the patient 
			must be willing to take the responsibility for getting better. This 
			includes regularly attending scheduled appointments to learn 
			postures, techniques, and exercises to be employed as part of a 
			"home program" to address the neck or back pain. While "passive 
			modalities," including massage or various electrical or thermal 
			agents, may be used initially in conjunction with therapeutic 
			exercise and postural training, it is "active" things like postural 
			and body mechanics awareness and commitment to the exercise program 
			that are responsible for the most significant and lasting decreases 
			in pain. An ideal candidate for Physical Therapy is someone who 
			says, "I want to learn what I can do to get rid of this pain once 
			and for all, or at least to know how to control or prevent it." This 
			is in contrast to a less ideal candidate who comes to Physical 
			Therapy looking for something external to be applied that will "fix" 
			the problem. HOME SERVICES RESOURCES Testimonials EVENTS LOCATIONS EMPLOYMENT GLOSSARY FAQ's 2007 © Kitsap Physical Therapy.