Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Maternity Support Stockings - Avoiding Varicose Veins During Pregnancy Avoiding Varicose Veins 
During Pregnancy Keep Legs Healthy with a Little TLC Taking care of yourself during pregnancy is an important job for the mom-to-be.  A
balanced diet, the proper exercise and plenty of rest are all healthy choices that keep
you feeling great during pregnancy.  But sometimes even TLC doesn't keep your legs
from becoming tired and achy. Understanding the Connection Between Blood 
Flow and Tired, Aching Legs Your body's circulatory system has two kinds of 
blood vessels: arteries and veins.   Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood 
from the heart to the rest of your body.  The thick artery walls actually 
help the heart to pump the blood by gently contracting with each heartbeat. Veins return blood back to the heart.  The thin-walled veins have valves that open
when the blood flows past them, then close after each heartbeat to stop the blood from
flowing backwards in the vein.  When weak or damaged valves allow blood to flow
backward, it collects at the bottom of the leg.  This excess blood increases pressure
in the vein and causes that tired aching feeling in your legs. Eventually, the increased pressure enlarges the veins. These stretched and twisted
veins are called varicose veins.  The smaller veins close to the skin's surface may
be bluish, with a spidery or knotted appearance. Pregnancy Increases the Possibility That You'll Develop Varicose Veins Men and women of all ages can develop varicose veins.  But the special changes in
your body during pregnancy make you especially susceptible to this condition.  In
fact, it's estimated that up to 40% of all pregnant women develop varicose veins. When your pregnant, hormone changes may cause vein walls to relax slightly and stretch
out.  Also greater blood flow to and from the womb, along with the size and weight of
your expanding tummy, puts additional pressure on the veins of your legs. You're more likely to develop varicose veins if your job requires prolonged periods of
standing or sitting.  Other contributing factors are thin-walled veins, injury or
inflammation of the veins and excess weight.  The combined effect of all of these
factors contributes to varicose veins in the legs. If you already have varicose veins, pregnancy can aggravate and worsen the condition.
  Also, if your mother had varicose vein problems during her pregnancy, you may
experience similar problems since weaknesses in vein walls and valves are inherited. Early Treatment Can Prevent Temporary Problems from Becoming Permanent Usually the varicose veins that develop during pregnancy return to normal after your
baby is born.  However, if valves are improperly developed, there will be a tendency
for varicose veins that develop during pregnancy to become permanent problems. Maternity Support Pantyhose - Just What The Doctor Ordered Jobst offers a variety of support pantyhose for use during pregnancy.  Their sheer
maternity pantyhose provides gradient compression, where the pressure of the garment is
greatest at the ankle and decreases as you move up the leg.  This unique design
gently compresses your leg muscles, squeezing the veins, helping to push the blood back
toward your heart. More TLC for the Mom-To-Be In addition to wearing Jobst maternity support pantyhose, here are a few tips for
making your legs feel better. When resting, keep your legs elevated higher than your heart.  This helps the blood
        return to your heart. Avoid standing for prolonged periods of time. Follow the exercise plan your doctor recommends, to improve blood flow in your legs. Don't cross your legs when sitting, It reduces the circulation. Avoid wearing tight girdles or panty leg girdles. When you ride in the car, stop and walk frequently. The information collected here 
has been developed over searches on the internet.  We are not in any way 
responsible for, or endorse, information on other web sites, it is here for 
public information.   Your doctor is the best source of leg health information 
and treatment.  We hope you find this information helpful.  This article has 
been provided courtesy of  Ames Walker Hosiery (ameswalker.com) and may be 
reproduced for personal use provided no part of this article (including the text 
contents) has been changed. Copyright © 2003  Ames Walker International Inc. Bac