
Clinical topic - Varicose veins Skip to content Loading… Loading… Clinical Knowledge Summaries Print Home Clinical topics Important information about the CKS service Help I'm looking for: in… All sections Clinical topics Help Browse clinical topics By clinical specialty By alphabet Full list Topic sections In the right clinical topic? How up-to-date is this topic? Goals and outcome measures Background information Management Evidence Drugs in this topic Section outline Scenario: Varicose veins Assessment Basis for recommendation Referral Basis for recommendation Management Basis for recommendation Advice in pregnancy Basis for recommendation Complications Basis for recommendation View full scenario View full scenario no prescriptions Varicose veins - Management How do I assess a person with varicose veins? Identify why the person is concerned about their varicose veins. For many people, it is because of the cosmetic appearance, or worries that they will get worse or cause complications. Ask about symptoms that might be caused by the varicose veins. Itching, discomfort, and swelling of the affected leg are commonly reported, but may be due to other causes. Discomfort after prolonged standing, relief with leg elevation or wearing compression stockings, and discomfort over the varicose veins suggest that the symptoms are due to varicose veins. Document the location and the severity of the varicose veins. Check for any complications : Skin changes — areas of pigmentation, eczema, or lipodermatosclerosis (hardened, tight, red or brown skin, which if circumferentially affecting the ankle area may eventually result in an 'inverted champagne bottle' leg). Venous leg ulcers — most commonly seen in the ankle (gaiter) area. Thrombophlebitis — a tender, inflamed varicose vein with overlying redness and heat and which feels firm owing to the presence of thrombus within the vein. People with thrombophlebitis usually present acutely. If use of compression stockings is being considered, measure the ankle-brachial pressure index using a Doppler machine (some experts suggest that this is unnecessary if foot pulses are easily palpable, the person has no symptoms of arterial disease, and strong compression is not being applied). For further information see the CKS topic on Compression stockings . © NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement About us Accreditation A-Z of Topics Journals and Databases NHS Evidence content NHS Evidence search NICE Pathways QIPP Mobile Downloads Email Register for My Evidence Discover My Evidence or Register Now Contact us Sitemap Accessibility Legal statement Take a tour FAQs Help Follow us: Copyright © 2011 National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. All
   