Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lower Back Pain and Strong Ab Muscles Lower Back Pain and Strong Ab Muscles "How Strong Abdominal Muscles Can Help Prevent Lower Back Pain" Lower back pain and strong ab muscles are closely related. Many gym goers and fitness minded people know that having strong abdominal muscles helps to support the lower back, but not that many people truly understand how and why. Before we get into it, let me say that lower back pain is complex, and you should always consult with licensed health professional before beginning any exercise program. Here is a brief overview about how lower back pain and strong ab muscles help to prevent pain. One of the structures that gets irritated in lower back pain is the cartilage that lines the facet joints in between the vertebrae. The cartilage that lines the vertebrae is different from the discs that help to cushion the spine. The cartilage that lines the vertebrae helps to lubricate the joints so that movement is smooth and painless. When the cartilage wears away, these joints become arthritic just like other joints in the body. Irritation of the joints is a common lower back injury, and there are two ways strong abdominal muscles help to protect the lower back. First, strong abdominal muscles help to stabilize the pelvis and lower back. When the pelvis and lower back are unstable because of weak muscles the joints have to absorb more force. When the joints absorb more force, they wear away faster. Secondly, strong abdominal muscles help to support good posture and prevent hyper-extension of the spine. When the spine extends excessively (when the lower back arches too much, sometimes referred to as hyper-lordosis), additional pressure is placed on the joints of the spine. So the abdominal muscles help to decrease or prevent lower back pain, by helping to maintain good posture in the spine and also helping to stabilize the pelvis and lower back (lumbar spine). Strengthening the Abdominal Muscles Okay, let's talk about strengthening the abdominal muscles. If you ask 10 physical therapists, chances are that they will all have a slightly different approach. One of the most important exercises to focus on in the beginning of an exercise program is the drawing-in maneuver. The drawing-in maneuver is used to engage the deep core muscles like the tranverse abdominus, pelvis floor, and lumbar multifidus. To perform the drawing-in maneuver simply suck in your belly button so that it moves towards your back. Hold for 10 seconds, relax and repeat 10 times. This is a coordination exercise for the deep core muscles. With sedentary lifestyles our core muscles lose their coordination and have a harder time stabilizing the lower back. In addition to the drawing-in maneuver, crunches, the plank exercise, and a series of exercises while lying on your back can all strengthen the abdominal muscles and develop core stability. If you want to support your lower back, ab exercises are very important, but by themselves they are not enough. In order to have the healthiest lower back, you must take a comprehensive approach and include flexibility exercises, lower back exercises, postural exercises, and proper sitting and lifting techniques. So treat your back well and start exercising today! About the Author of Lower Back Pain and Strong Ab Muscles Dr. Charles Inniss is a Physical Therapist, Personal Trainer, and fitness author with over 10 years of experience in the health and fitness industry. He has mentored thousands (YES, thousands!!!) of aspiring Personal Trainers and has helped countless Personal Training clients and patients achieve their fitness dreams. For more on lower back pain and strong ab muscles and for your home workout routine see How to Lose Belly Fat and Get a Flat Stomach. Check it out today! Additional Resources You will also want to take a look at the series designed by our healthy back friends. This is the most complete and trusted resource available for helping you to rid yourself of pain safely. Get your free relief kit here and start living with a healthier spine . Help from Fitness Professionals Whether you suffer from back pain or not, a fitness program can benefit you. Learn more about our Boston personal trainer team and how we can help you! Committed to your fitness success, David Bohmiller, BS, NSCA-CSCS Return from Lower Back Pain and Strong Ab Muscles to Lower Back Pain Directory Return from Lower Back Pain and Strong Ab Muscles to My Personal Trainer School Home Follow Us On Twitter | Connect On LinkedIn | Friend Us On Facebook Show and Go Training... - Eric Cressey's newest program is now available!  EC is a fitness industry leader and one of a handful of fitness professionals whose products, newsletter, website, and information I follow religiously. If you're afraid of lifting heavy things, then this program isn't for you.  If you want osteoporosis in 20 years, then this program isn't for you. If you want to look better, feel better, move better, and perform better, Show and Go is a must have! Click here to Learn more... Get the "6 Pack Abs Training Guide" as seen in Men's Health... And, Our Complimentary Newsletter! Just Enter Your Best Email: First Name: Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you My Personal Trainer School Fitness Reporter. My-Personal-Trainer-School.com | Lower Back Pain Directory | Boston Personal Trainer Copyright 2007-2009. My Personal Trainer School LLC. All Rights Reserved. | My Website Building and Hosting Provider Return to top Infolinks Information Template Design Get 21st Century 6 Pack Ab Training as featured in Men's Health Magazine as a FREE Gift -- just enter your info below. Enter Your Best Email: First Name: Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you My Personal Trainer School Fitness Reporter. CALL US TODAY FOR RATES: 617.600.8308 Learn More at TrainWithBoh.com Contact Us: Underground Studios 222 Arsenal Street Watertown, MA 02472 c/o David Bohmiller Train with Boston Personal Trainer David Bohmiller Refer a Friend Home Page "What's New?" Free Stuff For Clients Boston Area Fitness Ski Training Find a Trainer Home Fitness Ab Training Back Pain Free Online Fitness Magazine Products & Services Meet Our Trainers Boot Camps Personal Training iPod Personal Trainer Weight Loss Programs Exercise Ball Healthy Eating For Personal Trainers Trainer Directory Certification Headquarters Fitness Training School A Day in the Life Personal Trainer Certification Health Clubs Business Planning Studios Ownership Business Development Certifications NASM Store Personal Trainer Sales Course Resources Articles Fitness Tips Workouts Build Your Own Profitable Website! Resume Writing Special Causes Equipment Ellipticals Support & Administration Meet David "Boh" Bohmiller What Our Clients Are Saying Tell A Friend Ask Us Anything Beco