Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Back Pain Home Back Pain Home Back Pain Treatment, Remedies and Cures In the United States there is only one ailment that is more of a neurological problem then back pain, and that is the headache.
      Learn how to find back pain relief on this site. There are many different types of back pains and we will be discussing a lot of them at this site. It can become very possible that when you
have a minor fall or maybe you have some other type of injury, it is possible for you to develop some type of ligament strain or muscle pull.
When this happens there is a good chance of you having some cause of lower back pain . An amazing statistic One amazing statistic that some studies have shown is that is back pain is not only a problem for adults. It has been shown that from 10% to 40% of middle school and high school kids
   will or have experienced a problem in their back such as lower back pain. When you are suffering from a form of backpain you can find relief when you use a form of anti-inflammatory drug like ibuprofen. Another type
of relief that you can try at the same time is to rest and ice the area that is affected. This should help you to relieve the pain over the
following week. A very complex part of the body The back can be a very complex part of the body to diagnose. It is made up of bone (spine), ligaments, tendons, muscle and a complex network
of neurological parts. If you have ever suffered from low back pain and even muscle fatigue, you know that this can be very difficult to handle. One of the real
problems is when this pain occurs and there is no reason for it. You can suffer from some gradual onset or that sudden occurrence can be
extremely debilitating. Today, we have so much knowledge in the form of medical information and even with all of our medical advances, one thing is for sure is that
we are still not sure what the real cause of lower and upper back pain is. Another thing that we still must remember is that lower back pain and muscle fatigue is not a diagnosis.
   What is really happening is you are seeing a symptom of a big underlying problem. Other reason's for your back pain There are many different things that can cause you to feel pain in your back. There can be back pain when there is a problem with some other
internal organs. Believe it or not, this can be one of the major causes and disability for anyone that is under the age of 45. Another
interesting fact is that around 80% of all Americans can and will possibly suffer from a form of back pain at some time in there lives. The thing that starts to become very obvious is that back pain is very common. Depending upon the duration of the pain, it can be classified
into 3 categories, and they are: Chronic - this is going to last over 12 weeks Subacute - from 6 to 12 weeks Acute - from current to 6 weeks or less What are some causes of back pain: sciatica osteoarthritis herniated disc, ruptured disc, slipped disc nerve impingement , pinched nerve muscular problems spinal degeneration MRI Scans are best for diagnosing back problems An MRI scan is totally painless and is not going to have you get any needles or even dye. One of the most common tests behind an x-ray looking
for any type of lumbar problems is the MRI scan. When looking at the low back, the MRI scan is one of the preferred ways to do it. As you can see the MRI scan works extremely well for certain conditions. It provides specific and detailed images of the soft tissue of the
spine. This is great if you are looking for a disc problem, like a degenerative disc disease or even isthmic spondylolisthesis. These scans can
also be used when you want to eliminate tumors or maybe a spinal infection. MRI scans are also good for any type of nerve root problem that can
be caused by a herniated disc or even spinal stenosis. Be careful when using muscle relaxant drugs Sometimes when you are suffering from back pain, you may start to have muscle spasms. There are some different drugs that can help to relieve
the pain and stop the spasms. One drug that is often prescribed is a muscle relaxant. You have to be careful when taking muscle relaxants. Don't
take them for a long time because they have a propensity to cloud the mind. There has been discussion on the benefits of these drugs because of
some of the side effects. Some of these are a dependency on the drug and the sedation effect. Other ways to find relief from back spasms
and backache Here are some other ways that you may find relief from back spasms: Tens unit Back pain relief products Therapy Sciatic back pain relief Yoga for Lower Back Pain Relief Chronic back pain relief Heat Gentle stretching Natural back pain relief Back pain relief device Yoga for Upper Back Pain Relief Exercises Massage Acupuncture Back Pain Relief Yoga Back Pain Relief as seen on tv back pain relief There are times when muscle strains or pulled muscles can be the cause of some form of chronic back pain . Another form can be muscle imbalances. When you are suffering from this type of injury, the pain can remain
   with the person as long as the person continue to have the muscle imbalance. Back Pain WIKI has so much information on all of the various problems associated with back pain.  Use the navigation to the left to find
the topic of interest you like, then click the like to be taken to that information.  This site has most of the information you need to
learn how to find out if you have back pain and also the treatment necessary to help you relieve the pain the comes with this ailment.  So,
take your time and visit all the different pages that we have for you. Back to the Top: Back Pain Home | Herniated Disc | Back Pain Relief Back Pain Home Predicting Back Pain Cause of Lower Back Pain Causes of Upper Back Pain Back Pain Treatment Options Diseases with Back and Neck Pain Back Pain Medication Exercises for Lower back pain Back Pain Relief Ideas Site Map Copyright © 2008 BackPainWiki.com Medical Disclaimer Contact Us Privacy Stat