
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 13:35:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
X-Pingback: http://www.diethealthclub.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Home Remedies For Anxiety | Anxiety Treatments For Anxiety Cure | Diet, Nutrition, Exercise for a Healthy Life. Diet, Nutrition, Exercise for a Healthy Life. Diet, Healthy Nutrition and Exercise Guide for better health Skip to content « Home Remedies For Anemia - Anemia Treatment And Cures Home Remedies For Appendicitis | Treating Appendicitis Signs And Symptoms » (No Ratings Yet) Loading ... Home Remedies For Anxiety | Anxiety Treatments For Anxiety Cure By Pat | November 4, 2009 Natural Home Remedies for Anxiety Attacks An anxiety attack can be very scary for the person having an anxiety attack. They may think that they are having a heart attack. This, in turn, can increase the severity of the attack. When a person is exposed to a new or stressful situation, it is only normal for this person to experience anxiety. When the anxiety becomes severe, it can lead to other issues. Difficulties in dealing with relationships, depression, or drug and alcohol abuse can stem from anxiety. Gaining control over excessive anxiety is paramount to good health. Symptoms Of Anxiety And Anxiety Cures A person suffering from an anxiety attack may have some of the following symptoms: Irregular or quickened heartbeat Fatigue Upset stomach Sweating Feeling cold and clammy Body aches and cramps Headaches, lightheadedness, or dizziness Disturbed sleep Irritability A sense of impending doom Some things that can be tried to relieve the symptoms of an attack are as follows: Valerian can work rapidly and can be used up to three or four times a day. L-theanine is an amino acid that is derived from Green tea and should be consumed to help calm down and avert or treat an anxiety attack. Passion flower, especially when combined with Valerian, is an effective anti-anxiety remedy. Rhodiola can help stimulate hormones in the brain to reduce anxiety and mental fatigue and elevate mood. SAM-e works on enhancing mood and helps lessen the effect of anxiety. Bacopa helps one stay calm. This is especially good for calming nerves and reducing stress. Kava Kava is a natural relaxant. Ginseng helps promote mental functions, which help a person deal with stressful situations better. Catnip as a tea has a soothing effect. Chamomile tea also has a soothing effect and promotes sleep. Fennel tea will help with ‘nerves’ and the feeling of butterflies in the stomach. Melatonin can help promote sleep. Hops helps relax nerves. A skullcap helps relax nerves and helps with sleep. Motherwort has a calming effect on emotions. St. John’s Wort calms emotions and helps relieve the symptoms of depression. Aromatherapy can soothe without the need for ingestion of a tonic. You can take a hot bath with scented essential oils or you can burn scented candles. Great scents to use can be bergamot, lavender, lemon, geranium, sandalwood, and sweet marjoram. There are many more that can be tried until you find the ones that work best for you « Home Remedies For Anemia - Anemia Treatment And Cures Home Remedies For Appendicitis | Treating Appendicitis Signs And Symptoms » Follow Us on Search Recent Posts Calories In Garbanzo Beans Calories In Bell Peppers Calories In Apricots Calories In Barley Calories In Prunes Calories In Halibut Calories In Cod Calories In Soy Sauce Calories In Pinto Beans Calories In Figs Categories Cholesterol Diet Common Illnesses Diet for Illness Diet for Kids Diet Profile Diet Tips Diseases and Treatment Hair and Skin Health Fitness Tips Heart Health Diet Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Liquid Diet Recipes Weight