<http://wp.me/pCt2W-2A2>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 18:19:36 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: 093a28bd9c6090ff181278066d45a2bc
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 17:19:36 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

What is Pharyngitis - Home Remedies for Laryngitis - Treatment for Laryngitis | Home Remedies, Natural Remedy Recent Posts 5 Common Symptoms Of Epstein Barr Virus 5 Common Symptoms Of Vaginitis Effective Treatment For Psoriatic Arthritis 10 Common Symptoms Of Tapeworm Top Natural Substitutes For Antihistamine 5 Common Symptoms Of Dementia How To Treat Anaphylaxis How To Prevent A Heart Attack How To Treat Diabetic Foot Ulcers Atrial Fibrillation Treatment In Three Steps Health Ailments 5 Common Symptoms Of Epstein Barr Virus 5 Common Symptoms Of Vaginitis Effective Treatment For Psoriatic Arthritis 10 Common Symptoms Of Tapeworm Top Natural Substitutes For Antihistamine Home Remedies Home Remedies For Arthritis How to Treat Infertility Through Acupressure Alternative Liver Failure Treatments 5 Home Remedies For Tonsillitis Different Graves Disease Treatment Options Diet Diet For Six Packs Abs The Best Vitamins For Toddlers How To Reduce Cellulite Through Diet Thanksgiving Appetizers For Kids Appetizer Ideas For Easter Natural Cures Treatment Options For Angular Cheilitis 7 Easy Jet Lag Cure 6 Effective Natural Cure For Herpes Natural Dandruff Treatment Without Side Effects Natural Remedies For Candida Nutrients Uses For Ginger Beer How To Choose Good Pomegranates What Are The Health Benefits Of Vitamin C ? 3 Commonly Available Natural Anabolic Steroids For A Muscular Body Vitamin D Deficiency Symptoms Beauty Tips Makeup Tips For Oily Skin Five Secrets To Look Younger Home Remedies That Delay Aging For A Longer Time Beauty Tips For Glowing Skin How To Get Glowing Skin Skin Care Different Treatments For Dry Skin How To Reduce Acne Redness 3 Best Methods Of Treating Ingrown Hair On Legs Treatment For Edema In The Legs How To Use Witch Hazel For Treating Acne Beauty Tips Diet Health Ailments Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Natural Cures Nutrients Skin Care Home » Home Remedies »
Pharyngitis Treatment Pharyngitis Treatment 21 August, 2010 Tweet Enter your email address: Inflammation of the pharynx is known as pharyngitis. Viral and bacterial infections and allergies are largely associated with this health disorder. The symptoms of pharyngitis include sore throat , cough, sneezing, mild headache and fever, usually less than 102 degrees Fahrenheit. Sometimes pharyngitis is accompanied with swollen lymph nodes, body aches, chills, fatigue, loss of appetite, high fever and spleen and liver inflammations.The symptoms of pharyngitis could be treated with simple home remedies. Pharyngitis treatment Pharyngitis patients should take enough rest. They should drink plenty of water and fluids. Warm soups and broths might help to reduce their discomfort. Gargling with warm saline water, several times daily, helps to reduce the inflammation. Salt is a natural antiseptic. It can kill the microorganisms responsible for the infection of the pharynx. Honey Honey is a natural expectorant. It could suppress cough and reduce the soreness of the throat. Pharyngitis patients should take a teaspoon of honey twice a day. However, honey should not be given to children less than 12 months of age. Basil leaf Basil leaf could provide relief from the symptoms of pharyngitis. You can take a tablespoon of basil juice twice a day. For better results, basil juice should be blended with honey. Ginger Juice of a fresh ginger could reduce the throat discomfort. Ginger is a strong decongestant. It loosens the mucus and heals cough and cold associated with pharyngitis. Garlic This natural antibiotic could kill the bacteria associated with pharyngitis. Pharyngitis patients should eat three to four cloves of garlic per day. Garlic capsules can help to improve the condition of pharyngitis sufferers. However, garlic supplements might be unsuitable for people on blood thinning medications. Vitamin C Large amounts of vitamin C rich fruits and vegetables should be included in the diet of pharyngitis patients. Vitamin C boosts immunity and speeds up the healing process. Vitamin C supplements are beneficial for people suffering from pharyngitis. Zinc supplements Zinc supplements could help to cure sore throat. Zinc strengthens the immune system. Zinc lozenges are often recommended for reducing cough, cold and sore throat. However, your zinc intake through supplements should not be over 50 mg per day. Related Posts Boost Immunity With Immune System Supplements The Power of Basil The Gingerbread Fantasy Glorious Garlic Add your Buzz here.. Enter your email address: Subscribe to feed Ask and Discuss Home Remedies Natural Home Remedies Buzz Ask a Question Natural Home Remedies and Treatment | © Copyright 2011 Disclaimer: All information available here is for educational purposes only. We do not claim to cure, prevent or treat any disease. If you have, or suspect to have a h