Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dr. John Brandeisky, DPM - ORTHOTICS ORTHOTICS Presented by: Dr. John Brandeisky Home Page Credentials Patient Registration 
                  Form Privacy Statement Contact Info Orthotics 
            are custom molded shoe inserts that are typically called prescription 
            arch supports.  They can be made of leather or a type of plastic. 
              There are other materials as well for special purposes to achieve 
            specific desired goals. Procedure:  Your feet are casted with plaster 
            of paris splints that are typically used in below knee casts when 
            legs or ankles are broken.   The feet are held in a specific 
            position known as "neutral position."   The cast is 
            then taken off.  After discussing the foot problem, when it occurs 
            during the day, and taking measurements, the cast is sent to an orthotics 
            manufacturing lab that makes the device to the cast and our specifications 
            to help your foot function better. It takes the lab 2 to 3 weeks to manufacture the devices.  They 
            are then fitted again to the patient to ensure there has been no mix 
            up.  The patient is asked to walk back and forth in the office 
            to determine if fit and function are good enough to begin the process 
            of getting used to them.  Minor adjustments can be made in the 
            office.   Major repairs or adjustments need to be done at the 
            lab. Orthotics fit in most men's shoes and sneakers.  There are different 
            kinds of orthotics to fit different shoes, but, changing the orthotic 
            too much removes its ability to correct the problem they are intended 
            for.  Sometimes a change in shoe gear is needed until the pain 
            is eliminated.  It can be more difficult to fit some women's 
            shoes.  It is best to take your orthotics to the shoe store whenever 
            contemplating the purchase of new shoes.  Be sure your shoes 
            together with your orthotics are comfortable for you. Orthotics are used to prevent bunion pain, heel pain, arch pain, shin 
            splints, at times hip and back pain and a lot of other conditions.  
            They are a necessary and important step to prevent surgical intervention 
            of bunions, heel spurs, tendon transfers, and other conditions.  
            They are also a necessary adjunct after surgery as they prevent reoccurrence 
            of what has been corrected by maintaining the foot in proper alignment 
            when walking or running. If orthotics have been recommended to you, it is important to consider 
            cost.  Unfortunately, they are not covered by most insurance 
            plans and you will want to discuss the fee with our office manager.  
            Most devices last for 7 to 10 years if properly cared for, and when 
            you consider pain relief, the device becomes a worthwhile investment 
            in your future comfort. Heel Pain Corns Orthotics Calluses Diabetes Foot Care Ingrown Toenails Metatarsal Stress Fracture Bunions Athlete's Foot How to Buy Sports Shoes Click Here for Some Good 
                    Advice Warts Flat 
                    Feet in Children & Adul