
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 12:02:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
X-Pingback: http://www.docblog.org/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: abrakadabra=1

Discovery of better treatment for bacterial pneumonia | Doc Blog Doc Blog Menu Home Contact us Pharmacy UK Sitemap New Posts Do You Believe In God Best drug to relief headache Levitra Vardenafil Make big savings when you buy your accutane online Cialis Samples Antibiotic Augmentin Prilosec is one of the best anti acid drug The drug known as woman’s Viagra Neurontin for treating epilepsy Diflucan functions by preventing the development of fungus so as to arrest the infection Discovery of better treatment for bacterial pneumonia Women reminded yearly examinations best way to prevent cervical cancer As a part of National Cervical Health Awareness Month, Acting Secretary of Health Everette James has reminded women of the importance of cervical cancer prevention and the need for pap tests. “Every January as we begin a new year, we want to remind all Pennsylvanians to do what they can to improve their overall health,” Full Post: Women reminded yearly examinations best way to prevent cervical cancer Scientists at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital have demonstrated a more effective treatment for bacterial pneumonia following influenza. They found that the antibiotics clindamycin and azithromycin, which kill bacteria by inhibiting their protein synthesis, are more effective than a standard first-line treatment with the “beta-lactam” antibiotic ampicillin, which causes the bacteria to lyse, or burst. The finding is important because pneumonia, rather than the influenza itself, is a principal cause of death from influenza in children and the elderly. During pandemics-such as the one that may arise from avian influenza-up to 95 percent of influenza deaths are due to pneumonia. A bioterrorism attack using the influenza virus would likely result in the same high percentage of pneumonia deaths, according to the researchers. The group, led by Jonathan McCullers, M.D., associate member of the St. Jude Infectious Diseases department, expect the new findings, currently demonstrated in mice, to be incorporated into standard clinical practice guidelines during the next few years. McCullers and his colleagues published their findings in the advanced, online issue of the Journal of Infectious Diseases . The researchers based the new treatment on growing evidence that beta-lactams are relatively ineffective against secondary pneumonia because the drugs exacerbate inflammation caused by influenza. “With severe secondary pneumonia, it has seemed that physicians do almost everything they can, and it doesn’t work,” McCullers said. “People still die despite treatment with antibiotics that can kill the bacteria. Our research is showing that the intense inflammatory response that is already there from the virus is amplified by the bacterial infection. And, treatment with beta-lactams releases bacterial components into the bloodstream that the immune system recognizes, triggering an inflammatory burst that can be deadly. “Traditional first-line therapy has been based on the belief that the bacteria are bad, so we have to get rid of them as quickly as possible,” McCullers said. “But what we are finding is that maybe it is the inflammation we need to worry about first, and the bacteria second. Protein synthesis inhibitors shut down the bacterial protein-making factory, and they can avoid the inflammatory burst by killing them over days instead of quickly lysing them.” In their experiments, the St. Jude researchers infected mice with a mild form of influenza that restricted itself to the lungs. After a week, the scientists infected the mice with pneumonia bacteria. This sequence mimics how humans with influenza would contract secondary pneumonia. The researchers treated groups of the doubly infected mice with ampicillin, clindamycin, combined clindamycin and ampicillin, or azithromycin. They found that 56 percent of the mice survived with ampicillin treatment, 82 percent survived with clindamycin, 80 percent with clindamycin and ampicillin, and 92 percent with azithromycin. Significantly, while clindamycin and azithromycin both inhibit protein synthesis, azithromycin also has anti-inflammatory properties. Ampicillin aggravated inflammation compared to clindamycin, the researchers confirmed in test tube studies. The investigators also found evidence of increased inflammation in lung cells of ampicillin-treated animals. According to McCullers, lung tissue studies of ampicillin-treated animals also revealed the antibiotic’s deleterious effects. “We saw in those animals that, even though we were clearing their lungs of bacteria, the lungs looked just like those of animals in which the bacteria were continuing to multiply,” McCullers said. “The damage process was continuing.” McCullers said he would like the new findings to influence treatment guidelines immediately for pneumonia secondary to influenza. “The current guidelines still adhere to the theory that beta-lactams are the only drugs of choice, because it is necessary to kill the bacteria as fast as possible,” he said. “However, our findings represent the first data showing that inflammation is important, and that alternative therapies such as protein synthesis inhibitors should be considered and incorporated into revised guidelines.” More broadly, McCullers said, the new findings support a growing body of evidence that treating severe pneumonia in general should take into account the inflammatory response and not just the rapid demise of bacteria. http://www.stjude.org/ Link -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Related Posts: Antibiotic Augmentin When bacterial infections cause us to get really sick, the only way to get better is to go to the doctor. With the help of antibiotics, we can start to recover quickly. One such antibiotic is Augmentin which belongs to the penicillin family of drugs.
A bacterial infection is different to a viral infection, therefore the Full Post: Antibiotic Augmentin Inflammation contributes to colon cancer Researchers led by Drs. Lillian Maggio-Price and Brian Iritani at The University of Washington found that mice that lack the immune inhibitory molecule Smad3 are acutely sensitive to both bacterially-induced inflammation and cancer. They report these findings in the January 2009 issue of The American Journal of Pathology. Bacteria contribute to the development of certain Full Post: Inflammation contributes to colon cancer Clear seasonal variation in bacterial infections In the same way that winter is commonly known to be the “flu season,” a new study suggests that the dog days of summer may well be the “bacterial infection” season. Researchers have discovered that serious infections caused by gram-negative bacteria can go up as much as 17 percent with every 10 degree increase in Full Post: Clear seasonal variation in bacterial infections High levels of social support may protect brain during stroke New research in mice suggests that high levels of social support may provide some protection against strokes by reducing the amount of damaging inflammation in the brain. Researchers at Ohio State University found that male mice that lived with a female partner before and after a stroke had a much higher survival rate compared to Full Post: High levels of social support may protect brain during stroke Study sheds light on inflammatory bowel disease Scientists have uncovered vital clues about how to treat serious bowel disorders by studying the behaviour of cells in the colon. Researchers at the University of Edinburgh believe a chemical messenger that is essential for developing a baby’s gut in the womb could hold the key to new treatments for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), a Full Post: Study sheds light on inflammatory bowel disease -------------------------------------------------