
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:42:15 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:42:15 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Migraine - What IS It? from About Headaches and Migraine About.com Health Headaches & Migraines Headaches & Migraines Search Headaches / Migraine Symptoms/Diagnosis Treatment Coping Share Discuss in my forum Migraine - What IS It? Hint: It's NOT a bad headache From Teri Robert , former About.com Guide Created: December 5, 2004 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the Medical Review Board Filed In: Migraine 101 > Migraine Disease One of the myths associated with Migraine is that it is simply a very
      bad headache. Migraine is actually a genetically-based neurological disease. A headache
      is only a symptom of that disease. Migraine has many symptoms including visual disturbances, sensitivity
      to sound and light, severe headache, nausea, vomiting, hypersensitivity to
      feel and touch, and vertigo. During an attack, Migraineurs, people who
      suffer from Migraine, may also have problems speaking and remembering the
      correct words for what they're trying to say. One Migraine episode can
      last hours, days, or weeks, leaving the Migraineur virtually disabled for
      that period of time. The exact cause of Migraine is still uncertain, but it is known to be
      an inherited disease. People who have a parent with Migraine have a 50%
      chance of also suffering Migraine. The most prevalent theory of the cause
      of Migraine is that chemical changes in the blood vessels supplying the
      brain and its coverings cause constriction (narrowing) and dilation
      (widening) of the blood vessels. Contrary to Migraine myth, the cause of
      Migraine is not psychological. A Migraine attack is induced by various triggers , some controllable and
      some not. Controllable triggers include bright light, various foods, and
      alcohol. Uncontrollable triggers include weather patterns and menstrual
      cycles. The triggers that cause Migraine are many and vary from person to
      person. Some Migraine episodes come on very quickly, with little or no warning.
      In 30 to 40% of patients, a period called the prodrome occurs hours or
      days before the attack. During the prodrome, mood changes, increased
      frequency of urination, food cravings, stiff neck, and other symptoms may
      be experienced. Sometimes, medications taken during this period can help
      avert the attack. Unfortunately, patients sometimes either don't notice or
      misunderstand the symptoms of the prodrome. The prodrome may be followed
      by an aura, symptoms that can last for up to an hour just prior to the
      headache stage of an attack. Symptoms that can occur during the aura
      include visual disturbances; hypersensitivity to light sound, odors, touch
      and feel; vertigo; and speech disruptions.  Again, if the aura occurs
      and is noticed, sometimes medications taken at this time can head off or
      lessen the severity of the ensuing headache. The headache itself varies in
      characteristics, and usually lasts from 4 to 72 hours. The period after
      the headache is called the postdrome, and can last up to 24 hours after
      the headache ends. Symptoms that persist through the postdrome include,
      moodiness, lack of concentration, and weakness. In addition to medications to treat the symptoms of Migraine, there are
      several classes of drugs being used to help prevent Migraine episodes. Alternative and complementary methods such as acupuncture,
      massage therapy, and relaxation techniques are also being employed both as
      preventatives and as treatments during episodes. Migraine is a genetically-based, disabling, under-diagnosed,
      under-treated, and often misunderstood neurological disease. As research into cause,
      treatment, and prevention continue, Migraineurs have more choices and hope
      now than they ever before. Suggested Reading Anatomy of a Migraine Is Migraine a Progressive Brain Disease? Headaches and Migraine 101 Related Articles Types of Migraine - Migraines Anatomy of a Migraine - Migraines Migraine - Migraine Headaches in Children Migraine Myths and Misconceptions - Migraines Sensory Triggers - Migraines Related Searches cause of migraine cause constriction headache migraine migraine attack prevalent theory weather patterns Explore Headaches & Migraines Must Reads Understanding Headaches Is it a Migraine? Are Migraines Preventable? Treating Your Headache or Migraine Coping With Headaches and Migraines Most Popular Ice Pick Headaches Head pain and orgasm dehydration_and_headaches_does Migraine, Tension, What? Migraine Aura By Category Headache Basics Types of Headaches Diagnosis of Headaches Headache Treatment Coping With Headaches Migraines Resources Glossary Headaches & Migraines About.com Health Headaches & Migraines Migraine 101 Migraine Disease Migraine - What IS It? from About Headaches and Migraine Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod