
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 10:45:19 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 10:45:19 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Web-Head: vps115.advomatic.com
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Circumcision is Medically Unnecessary, Painful, Risky, and Unethical: Intact America: Vienna AIDS Conference Intact America: SAY NO TO CIRCUMCISION Support us today! DONATE Take Action Spread The Word Learn More Circumcision Decision News Resources About Us INTACT AMERICA AT AIDS 2010 Intact America takes its message abroad to the International AIDS 2010 Conference in Vienna, Austria from July 18-23. Intactivist volunteers are staffing our booth at the conference, with banners, brochures, and other educational materials from Intact America. Right now, the issue of AIDS – and the fact that circumcision does NOT prevent it – is central to both the CDC's and the AAP's upcoming recommendations for America's baby boys. Read the press release. UPDATE: We need your help to make our message heard. Will you make a donation to help support our presence at the AIDS 2010 conference in Vienna? (Pictured at right: Brian O'Donnell and Aubrey Taylor. Photo by Michael Smith.) Circumcision and Sexually Transmitted Infections (including HIV) Intact America opposes the promotion of circumcision as a method for the prevention of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. Physicians and others who would promote circumcision have a long history of claiming medical beneﬁts to justify genital cutting of both males and females that were subsequently disproved. HIV/AIDS is the latest in a long list of diseases that have held out as a justiﬁcation for circumcision. It is socially irresponsible and dangerous to promote a message that circumcision offers protection from sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, when such protection – if it exists at all – is only partial, and comes at a great expense and risk to others. Circumcised men can both contract and transmit sexually transmitted infections. The only way to prevent such infections is through abstinence or “safe sex” practices, including the use of condoms. (Pictured at right: Brian O'Donnell with Michel Sidibé, the new Executive Director of UN-AIDS. Photo by Michael Smith.) Male Circumcision: A Dangerous Mistake in the HIV Battle Mass male circumcision has been identified and promoted as a method of curbing the HIV/AIDS pandemic in sub-Saharan Africa, following the results of three randomized clinical field trials (RCTs) conducted there. Analysis of  these studies reveals many factors that call in to question the results claimed and limit their applicability to the  circumcision debate in the United States. Our full analysis is available here . SIGN UP TODAY! Stay up-to-date on the latest issues and news from Intact America as we continue working to stop infant circumcision in the United States. You will receive news and updates from Intact America and can unsubscribe at any time. IntactAmerica.org About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Do