
Bypass Revision San Diego, Gastric Bypass Surgery Revision San Diego Explore other UCSD Health Sciences sites UC San Diego Health System UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center UC San Diego Sulpizio Cardiovascular Center UCSD School of Medicine Book an Appointment Free Seminar Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames. Bariatric and Metabolic Institute About Obesity BMI Calculator Weight Loss Treatments Gastric Banding/Lap Band Eligibility Your Motivation Who is a Candidate? Who is Not a Candidate FAQs Post-Operative Care Ongoing Motivation Exercise Guidelines Dietary Guidelines Adjustments Results Risks Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Bypass Revision Endoscopic Options Compare Weight Loss Surgery Options Adolescent Weight-Loss Program Health Risks of Childhood Obesity Measuring Adolescent Obesity Options Who is a Candidate? Non-Surgical Weight Management Program FAQ Our Program Online Seminar Meet Our Surgeons About the BMI Team Weight Loss Support Group Frequently Asked Questions Patient Stories Meet Lisa Skaggs Meet Pat Jordan Meet Seanna Hunter Meet Laura Gordan Meet Willie DePascale Meet Anneke Terpstra-Feller Meet Curtis Jones Meet David Berg Meet DeNeice Kenehan Meet Felix Zavala Meet Jamey Baker Meet Janice Rankin Meet Jason Benjamin Meet Larry Tupper Meet Pat Woods News & Research Contact Us Insurance Coverage Locations & Directions Bariatric and Metabolic Institute / Weight Loss Treatments / Bypass Revision Share | Weight Loss Treatments Gastric Banding/Lap Band Eligibility Your Motivation Who is a Candidate? Who is Not a Candidate FAQs Post-Operative Care Ongoing Motivation Exercise Guidelines Dietary Guidelines Adjustments Results Risks Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Bypass Revision Endoscopic Options Compare Weight Loss Surgery Options Adolescent Weight-Loss Program Health Risks of Childhood Obesity Measuring Adolescent Obesity Options Who is a Candidate? Non-Surgical Weight Management Program FAQ Bypass Revision Regaining Weight After Your Bypass? Every year, more than 100,000 U.S. patients undergo gastric bypass surgery for the treatment of obesity. Most gastric bypass patients obtain excellent weight loss after surgery. Some patients, however, experience weight regain years after their original bypass surgery.  This weight regain may be caused by an enlarged pouch or stoma (the connection between the stomach pouch and small intestine). If this has happened to you, UCSD's Center for the Treatment of Obesity now offers an exciting "incisionless" procedure to reduce the size of your stomach down to what it was when your gastric bypass was first performed. Minimally Invasive Procedure Can Stop Your Weight Gain A new incision-free procedure can reverse weight gain after gastric bypass surgery. The procedure, called “ROSE” (Restorative Obesity Surgery, Endolumenal), uses instruments inserted through the mouth to reduce the size of your stomach pouch and the opening to the small intestine, recreating the restriction you once had to help you once again achieve weight loss. How It's Done To perform the incisionless procedure, a small, flexible endoscope and surgical tools are inserted through the mouth and into the stomach pouch. Sutures are placed in the stomach pouch and stoma to reduce their size. No cuts are made into the patient’s skin during the procedure.The procedure is designed to provide important advantages, including minimal post-operative pain, fast recovery time, and no scarring. Are You a Candidate? If you were originally successful with your bypass surgery but now find yourself regaining some of your lost weight, you may be an ideal candidate for the new incisionless procedure. You may also be a candidate if you underwent bypass surgery but have failed to lose weight After an initial screening, patients undergo a series of evaluations including nutritional and dietary counseling, a full medical exam, and endoscopy. Part of UC San Diego Health System Department of Surgery UC San Diego Bariatric and Metabolic Institute View Office Locations 858-657-7000 Home About Obesity Attend a Seminar Weight Loss Surgery Our Program News & Research Patient Stories Contact Us Official Web Site of the University of California, San Diego. Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.