
Respiratory Problems, Age 11 and Younger Respiratory Problems, Age 11 and Younger Home Treatment Most children have 7 to 10 mild upper
		respiratory infections each year. Your child may feel uncomfortable and have a
		stuffy nose. The infection is usually better within a week and is usually gone
		within 14 days. Home treatment is appropriate for mild symptoms
		and can help your child feel better. Keep the room temperature comfortable for you and your child. A
		  hot, dry environment will increase nasal congestion. Raise the head of your baby's bed about
		  1 in. (2.5 cm) to
		  2 in. (5 cm) by placing blocks
		  under the crib. Do not raise just the mattress because it may leave a gap for
		  your baby to roll into. Do not raise the head of the bed
		  if your baby is younger than 6 months. Prevent dehydration . Let your baby breast-feed more often or give your baby extra
				bottles. Liquids may help thin the mucus and also reduce fever (if present). Do not awaken your child during naps or at night to take
				fluids. Do not force your child to take fluids, which may cause your
				child to vomit. Give your child extra cuddling and distraction. Let your child get extra rest to fight the infection. Do not give your child leftover antibiotics or antibiotics or other
		  medicines prescribed for someone else. Put a vaporizer or humidifier in your child's room if he or
		  she is breathing through the mouth. Lukewarm mist may help your child feel more comfortable by
				soothing the swollen air passages. It may also help with your child's
				hoarseness. But do not let your child's room get uncomfortably cold or very
				damp. Use a shallow pan of water to provide moisture in the air
				through evaporation if you do not have a humidifier. Place the pan where no one
				will trip on it or fall into it. If your child has a stuffy nose: Use saline nose drops to help with nasal
				congestion. Use a rubber bulb to suction the nose sparingly. It will help reduce nasal
				drainage if your baby is having difficulty breast-feeding or bottle-feeding or
				seems to be short of breath. Babies often do not like having their noses
				suctioned with a rubber bulb. Do not give your child oral antihistamines or decongestants unless directed to do so by your child's
				doctor. Antihistamines and decongestants can cause your child to behave
				differently, making it harder to tell how sick he or she really is. Studies
				show that over-the-counter cough medicines do not work very well. And some of
				these medicines can cause problems if you use too much of them. It is important
				to use medicines correctly and to keep them out of the reach of children to
				prevent accidental use. If your child's doctor prescribes decongestant nose drops for
				your child's stuffy nose, put 1 or 2 drops in one side of the nose only. Use only when needed, such as before feeding or
					 sleep. Alternate the side of the nose that you put the drops
					 in. Don't use nose drops for longer than 3 days. Don't share the nose drops with other members of the
					 family. If your child has a cough: Honey or lemon juice in hot water or tea may
				help a dry cough. Do not give honey to a child younger than 1 year old. It may
				have bacteria that are harmful to babies. Don't give cough and cold
				medicines to your young child unless you've checked with the doctor first. They
				can be harmful to children. Experts say not to give them to children younger
				than 2. If your child has a barking cough during the night, you can
				help him or her breathe better by following the home treatment for a barking cough . Medicine you can buy without a prescription Try a nonprescription
			 medicine to help treat your child's fever or pain: Acetaminophen , such as Tylenol Ibuprofen , such as Motrin or Advil Talk to your child’s doctor before switching back and
				forth between doses of acetaminophen and ibuprofen. When you switch between two
				medicines, there is a chance your child will get too much medicine. Safety tips Be sure to follow these
				safety tips when you use a nonprescription medicine: Carefully read and follow all labels on the medicine bottle
					 and box. Give, but do not exceed, the maximum recommended
					 doses. Do not give your child a medicine if he or she has had an allergic reaction to it in the past. Do not give aspirin to anyone younger than age 20 unless directed to do so by your child's doctor. Do not give naproxen (such as Aleve) to children
					 younger than age 12 unless your child's doctor tells you to. Symptoms to Watch For During Home Treatment Use the Check Your Symptoms section to
		  evaluate your child's symptoms if any of the following occur during home
		  treatment: Difficulty breathing develops, such as: Shallow, rapid breathing . Flaring nostrils. Using the neck, chest, and abdominal muscles to breathe,
				  causing a "sucking in" between or under the ribs ( retractions ). Sitting up or leaning forward to breathe. Pale, gray, bluish, or mottled skin or bluish lips (cyanosis). Increased drooling develops. Cough gets worse or a persistent cough develops. Symptoms become more severe or frequent. Go to previous section Go to top of page Go to next section Author: Jan Nissl, RN, BS Last Updated: February 25, 2010 Medical Review: David Messenger, MD Kathleen Romito, MD - Family Medicine © 1995-2010 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated. This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. Topic Contents Topic Overview Check Your Symptoms Home Treatment Preventio