Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Migraines Women 
										Physicians GYN Medical Group Care of 
										Women by Women Newsletter
Index -- 4/1/2008 Barbara
Dehn Awarded Nurse Practioner of Distinction Women's
Health from A to Z Community
Breast Health Project Changes Its Name Migraines Introduction Migraine Triggers Risk Factors Prevention and Self-Care Medical Treatments Complementary and Alternative
Treatments WPMG
forms team for Mt. View Relay For Life WPMG
Health Care Services Barbara
Dehn Awarded Nurse
Practitioner of Distinction The California
Association for Nurse Practitioners (CANP) recently honored WPMG’s nurse
practitioner Barbara Dehn with its annual "Nurse Practitioner of
Distinction" award. Barb was given
the award for her efforts in providing quality health care to patients and for
demonstrating the value nurse practitioners provide in California's health care
industry. "The NP of
Distinction Award is given annually to a single nurse practitioner who goes
above and beyond the call of duty consistently to deliver high quality health
care and represent the industry," says CANP President Theresa Brown.
"Barbara Dehn is a true health care hero who balances a full patient load
with ongoing efforts to promote the industry in local and national media. CANP
is proud to recognize and highlight her dedication to patients and her
colleagues." Barb has been a part of WPMG for 17 years. In addition to her patient care, she is a national speaker on a variety
of women's health topics, and is a regular on-air women's health expert for
NBC's daytime show, "iVillageLive" and "In the Loop with iVillage." Women’s
Health from A to Z Dr. Sutherland will be giving a talk on Women’s
Health at the Elephant Pharmacy on May 15, 2008 from 7:00 pm to 8:00 pm. She will allow time for audience questions so the information will be
particularly geared to those present. Bring your questions and your friends. Community
Breast Health Project (CHBP ) Changes
Its Name Now in its 15th year of providing personalized
information and support to anyone touched by breast cancer, the Community Breast
Health Project in Palo Alto has changed its name to Breast Cancer Connections . The new website is http://www.bcconnections.org Migraines Introduction A migraine can be disabling — with symptoms so severe,
all you can think about is finding a dark, quiet place to lie down. Up to 17
percent of women and 6 percent of men have experienced a migraine. We now know that many milder headaches, often mistaken for stress or
sinus headaches, may actually be migraines and could benefit by migraine
treatments. In some cases, these painful headaches are preceded or
accompanied by a sensory warning sign (aura), such as flashes of light, blind
spots or tingling in your arm or leg. A migraine is also often accompanied by
other signs and symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to
light and sound. Migraine pain can be excruciating and may incapacitate you for
hours or even days. Or at other
times it can feel much milder and be mistaken for a stress or sinus headache. If you experience aura, be sure to let your doctor know as you should
then avoid oral contraceptives or estrogen therapies. Fortunately,
management of migraine pain has improved dramatically in the last decade. If
you've seen a doctor in the past and had no success, it's time to make an
appointment at Women Physicians Ob-Gyn. Although there's still no cure,
medications can help reduce the frequency of migraine and stop the pain once it
has started. The right medicines combined with self-help remedies and changes in
lifestyle may make a tremendous difference for you. Migraine
triggers Though the exact cause of migraines is poorly understood, a number of things may
trigger them. Common migraine triggers include: · Hormonal
changes. Although
the exact relationship between hormones and headaches isn't clear, fluctuations
in estrogen seem to trigger headaches in many women with known migraines. Women
with a history of migraines often report headaches immediately before or during
their periods, and this corresponds to a major drop in estrogen. Others have an
increased tendency to develop migraines during pregnancy or menopause. Hormonal
medications, such as contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy, also may
worsen migraines. · Foods. Certain foods appear to
trigger headaches in some people. Common offenders include alcohol, especially
beer and red wine; aged cheeses; chocolate; fermented, pickled or marinated
foods; aspartame; overuse of caffeine; monosodium glutamate (MSG) — a key
ingredient in some Asian foods; certain seasonings; and many canned and
processed foods. Skipping meals or fasting also can trigger migraines. · Stress. A hard week at work
followed by relaxation may lead to a weekend migraine. Stress at work or home
also can instigate migraines. · Sensory
stimuli. Bright
lights and sun glare can produce head pain. So can unusual smells — including
pleasant scents, such as perfume and flowers, and unpleasant odors, such as
paint thinner and secondhand smoke. · Changes
in wake-sleep pattern. Either missing sleep
or getting too much sleep may serve as a trigger for migraine attacks in some
individuals. · Physical
factors. Intense
physical exertion, including sexual activity, may provoke migraines. · Changes
in the environment. A change of weather,
season, altitude level, barometric pressure or time zone can prompt a migraine. · Medications. Certain medications can
aggravate migraines · . Risk
Factors Many people with migraines have a family history of
migraine. If both your parents have migraines, there's a good chance you will
too. Even if only one of your parents has migraines, you're still at increased
risk of developing migraines. You also have a relatively higher risk of migraines if
you're young and female. In fact, women are three times as likely to have
migraines as men are. Headaches tend to affect boys and girls equally during
childhood but increase in girls after puberty. If you're a woman with migraines, you may find that your
headaches begin just before or shortly after onset of menstruation. They may
also change during pregnancy or menopause. If
pregnancy or menstruation affects your migraines, your headaches may get worse
if you take birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy (HRT) or have a
change in dose. Prevention
and Self-Care Life
style changes can help manage your migraines · Keep
a diary — Note the
severity and length of the migraines and what helps for relief. Also note any possible triggers of stressors. · Avoid
triggers · Exercise
regularly · Learn
relaxation exercises —
Meditation, yoga, muscle relaxation exercises, or even a hot bath may cut down
on the number and severity of migraines Medical
Treatments Medicines
can be taken to stop a migraine once it starts (pain-relieving) or can be used
daily or regularly to prevent migraines. · Pain-relieving
meds — · Nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Naprosyn, and others) or aspirin or
combinations like Excedrin Migraine can be helpful for mild to moderate
migraines, especially if taken early. Excess
use can lead to stomach ulcers or bleeding or to rebound headaches. · Triptans are more effective, especially for severe headaches. Examples of such medicines include Imitrex, Maxalt, Zomig, Relpax, Frova,
and Amerge. These require a
prescription and your doctor can help decide which might be best for you. They can sometimes cause side effects of nausea, dizziness, or muscle
weakness. · Ergots,
butalbital combinations, and opiates have been used in the past but are rarely used now due to side effects, risk
of rebound, and potential for dependence and withdrawal. · Preventative
Medicines — These are
generally reserved for patients who have more than 9-12 migraines per month. They don’t eliminate migraines completely but may cut the frequency and
severity in half. There are many
different types of medicines that have been used for prevention, all with
different side effects and sometimes health benefits. Check with your doctor to see if you would be a candidate for such an
approach. Complementary
and Alternative Medicine · Biofeedback,
Acupuncture, Massage, Cervical Manipulation — Studies vary as to the effectiveness of these
techniques with the most convincing data for biofeedback and the least for
cervical manipulation. Herbs, Vitamins, and Minerals —
The herbs feverfew and butterbur have had some success, as well as high-dose
riboflavin (vitamin B-2), coenzyme Q10, and oral magnesium sulfate (especially
if there is a magnesium deficiency). Don’t
use feverfew or butterbur if you are pregnant. Mountain
View Relay for Life Once
again, Women Physicians Ob-Gyn has formed a team to participate in the American
Cancer Society’s signature event, Relay for Life. This will take place at beautiful Cuesta Park on May 31, 2008 at 10 am
until June 1, 2008 at 10 am. A team
commits to have a walker on the track for a full 24 hours, reflecting the fact
that cancer never sleeps. And this
year our team goal for fund-raising is $9,000. Last year, we had a lot of fun, got some good exercise, and raised over
$8,000. This event Celebrates survivors, Remembers loved ones, and gives us all a chance to Fight
Back . To get a taste of Relay, watch the 4 minute video at www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fn6y--FO2EU . There are many different ways you can participate in Relay for Life. · Join
our Team! We invite you and your family to participate
on our team . As a team member, you would agree to walk for one or more hours at your
own pace along the path at Cuesta Park. Other
than your shift, you are free to come and go throughout the day and night,
enjoying the entertainment, music, games, midnight movies, and beautiful
luminaria that line the track after dusk. You
can set up a tent and camp over-night if you please. We also encourage team members to try to raise at least $100 each. You can join our team on-line at www.events.cancer.org/rflmountainviewca
or call Lisa at 650-988-7557. Lisa
has the schedule of times available for walkers. · Donate
to our Team! If you are unable to join the team, but would like to
donate to this great cause, you can do so online at www.events.cancer.org/rflmountainviewca
or by contacting Lisa at 650-988-7557. · Walk
the Survivor Lap! Everyone who has ever been diagnosed with cancer of any
type is invited to join other survivors in the inspirational survivor lap that
will take place right after opening ceremonies at about 10:15 am on May 31. You do not need to be on a team, but in order to get a survivor t-shirt,
you should register. This can be
done on-line at www.events.cancer.org/rflmountainviewca or a form can be printed
out at our website, www.elacaminoobgyn.com, and mailed in. · Purchase
a luminaria! Luminaria are white bags, each decorated to honor a survivor or remember a loved
one who has died of cancer. At dusk,
the bags are placed along the path and lighted by a candle from within, glowing
with hope and remembrance. The
suggested luminaria donation is $10 each. They
can be purchased through our team on-line at www.events.cancer.org/rflmountainviewca
or if you prefer to decorate the bag yourself, you can purchase it through our
office. Women
Physicians Ob-Gyn Services Everyone knows that we
deliver babies and do annual exams. Did you know that you can
also have the following conditions treated at our office? · Excessive
sweating of the underarms, hands or feet · Wrinkles
including frown lines, crow’s feet, or forehead lines · Urinary
leakage with cough or sneeze using a sling procedure · Unsightly
spider veins · Excessive
menstrual bleeding using endometrial ablation · Sterilization
with a hysteroscopy procedure · Contraception
with the 3-year Implanon insert If any of
these conditions are bothering you or someone you know, please call our
scheduling desk at 650-988-7550 or visit our web site at www.elcaminoobgyn.com
for more information . Information on this website is 
for educational and reference purposes only and should not be interpreted as 
specific medical advice. Copyrig