
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 10:01:08 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.after50health.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Health Over 50 Search Results Some Good Natural Remedies For Bronchitis In Children Understanding bronchitis in children and its remedies Children that are very prone to common colds stand the risk of bronchitis or inflammation of the medium sized airways in the lungs. There could be a build up of bacteria and mucus in the throat. Bronchitis could start off from acute common colds that spread to the lungs, causing inflammation and accompanied by difficulty in breathing. Bronchitis showing the symptoms of common cold could by accompanied with a strange squeaky sound accompanied by labored breathing. Accompanied with a lot of phlegm and wheezing, bronchitis if neglected could prove to be very dangerous in young children. Chronic bronchitis accompanied with enormous secretions from the bronchial mucus glands could in extreme situations turn the whole body of children blue. It is often better in case of children to resort to natural remedies for bronchitis rather than treat it with strong medications that could weaken them. It is interesting to note that advocates of Ayurveda feel that bronchitis is caused due to disorders in the digestive system with most remedies aiming at bringing the digestive system to normal. A look at some good natural remedies for bronchitis It is a well noted fact that when fresh air fails to reach the lungs, children may have to exert themselves more to expel out the mucus as spasms prevent the bringing up of the mucus. One of the natural remedies for bronchitis in children would be to make them consume a lot of fluids. Fluids help to not only make the mucus blocking the windpipe thin to be expelled, but also assists breathing. It is found that the daily intake of fluids should make up about 6 to 8 glasses that could be in the form of water, herbal teas or juice. Drinking a lot of fluids in the form of warm water and soups helps greatly to clear the discomfort in the chest and throat. Chicken, tomato and vegetable soup made at home taken periodically with a tang of pepper and lemon has helped greatly in healing bronchitis. Drinking soups can help clear congestion and be very comforting to a sick child and have always cleared congestion much better than other fluids. It is very necessary to be very careful with children that have bronchitis because children are very sensitive. Warm clothing to cover the chest and breasts is very important for protection against the cold and when the child is taken out for a walk to get fresh air. In addition it is very necessary to avoid exposure to cold and damp weather and not take cold drinks that could aggravate the situation. Another natural remedy for children suffering from bronchitis would be to avoid smoke in the form of cigarette and firewood smoke in his/her environment. One more of the natural remedies for bronchitis in children would be to clear mucus and phlegm and assist breathing with herbs like ginger, cayenne, fenugreek, lobelia, marshmallow, mullein, pokeroot, and yarrow. Ginger is the herb that can be used as one of the natural remedies to be used in bathtubs, and they can also be taken orally along with cayenne to promote perspiration, relieve congestion and reduce fever. Herbs like fenugreek, poke root and mullein can be given with honey for flavor, with these herbs helping the bronchial tube to effectively to expel mucus and phlegm and reduce swelling on glands, while lobelia helps relieve spasms and promote a soothing, calm and relaxing effect. It is found that if children are given marshmallow and poke root, these herbs help    soothes and coats the inflammation, and prove to be a natural antibiotic to cleanse  swollen and infected glands and help in expelling wastes and toxins and breaking down the mucus respectively. Yarrow is the wonder herb that helps in flu and fevers and you could find great benefit in their power to heal and soothe mucous membranes, glandular system and problems in the respiratory system. These good natural remedies for bronchitis in children are sure to work. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Natural Cures For Chronic Bronchitis Maybe Within Your Reach Knowing about chronic bronchitis and its natural cures Bronchitis or swelling in the air tubes that get irritated and swollen with mucus blocking the airways could start off with irritants like tobacco, dust and chemical fumes and cause severe coughing. It is to be understood that mucus in the air tubes or bronchi could facilitate trapping of bacteria and other pathogens and cause infections that could extend to the lungs and other parts of the respiratory system. Acute bronchitis could come as attacks that last for a short time, however chronic bronchitis is more of a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that could last for months or even a few years. Chronic bronchitis is more often caused with exposure to airborne irritants like cigarette smoke and environmental pollution. So natural cures for chronic bronchitis rests on elimination of the irritants or allergies with chances of turning into more problematic and worse conditions like asthma and pneumonia. It is best understood that acute bronchitis is contagious, but chronic bronchitis does not contain any risk of being passed on. Natural cures for chronic bronchitis maybe easy You may think that doing exercises is harmful, but far to the contrary mild exercise like walking, simple yoga and pranayama exercises and deep breathing exercises help to facilitate easy breathing with strengthening the muscles involved in breathing. Exercises outdoors in the fresh morning air helps to get fresh unpolluted air. Exercises could help, but your doctors advice is very necessary before starting the exercise regimen. Deep breathing exercises or breathing in and out of the mouth slowly with lips partially closed helps to slow down the fast breathing accompanied in chronic bronchitis. It is also found that natural cures for chronic bronchitis rest on taking hot and warm water baths and showers. The breathing in of steam helps to stop chronic coughs and facilitate the elimination of mucus from the airways. In addition it is best to do steam inhalations with herbs like eucalyptus, thyme, peppermint, and rosemary. These set of home cures for chronic bronchitis can be done at home with a commercial steamer or a pressure cooker in which the water is boiled with herbs and opening the weight a bit at a time. Keeping the boiling water in a heat resistant bowl on a table and covering ones head with a towel helps experience an antiseptic, expectorant, and airway-relaxing feeling. Moisture and humidity have always played a role in the natural cures of chronic bronchitis. Drinking a lot of fluids helps not only get something nutritious when one cannot take solids, but it also helps dilute the mucous in the lungs to be expelled out easily. In addition humidifiers and vaporizers could greatly help if you suffer from chronic bronchitis. They help to prevent the thickening of mucous and its building on the walls of the bronchi and relieve persistent coughing. Dietary Changes- some natural cures for chronic bronchitis Natural cures for chronic bronchitis rests on healthy diets that involve abstaining from dairy and high sugar foods. Eliminating dairy products helps do away with the increase and thickening of mucous that could turn difficult to eliminate. Use of spicy foods like cayenne pepper, picante sauce, and jalapenos helps in easy and quick elimination of mucous. Consumption of more fresh fruits and will give ample vitamins and antioxidants, with Vitamin A being very beneficial for respiratory health. Arent these natural cures for chronic bronchitis within your reach? Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Learn All About What Causes Wheezing In Asthma All about wheezing and its underlying causes Wheezing or a whistling sound that is heard while breathing in asthmatics is quite common, with cough accompanied with wheezing being an indicator of serious health conditions or disorders. The breathing disorder, wheezing is caused with the narrowing of the airways or its being obstructed with excess mucus. This whistling or musical sound or one caused indicating great difficulty in breathing takes place when the air crosses the obstruction or narrowing. It is possible wheezing could be caused due to some simple medical problems or may lie in more deeper causes and serious medical complications that may involve the consultation of a medical professional immediately. It is but natural for one that is prone to asthmatic attacks to cough and wheeze at the same time, this taking place when the airways reacts to triggers causing their narrowing or producing excessive mucus. Wheezing could be observed both when the person inhales and exhales air. The other causes for wheezing could be pneumonia and bronchitis and other common causes like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), bronchiectasis (destruction and widening of the airways), cystic fibrosis, and tuberculosis and lung cancer that causes wheezing along with cough that may bring up bloody sputum. It is worth noting that besides asthma that is also known as a form of reactive airway disease, bronchitis could also cause wheezing accompanied with cough when a person affected tries to expel out mucus.  The symptoms of wheezing could be worse in a patient already suffering from asthma. In addition those suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that permanently damage the airways could experience worst symptoms of wheezing when exerting themselves even slightly. In addition gastro-esophageal reflux disease or GERT there could be pronounced wheezing when acid has refluxed high enough in your esophagus and then enters your throat causing you to wake up with a start if sleeping. In such cases coughing and wheezing could be pronounced and easily mistaken for asthma. But what causes wheezing in asthma exactly Asthma has been rightly termed as a reactive airway disease because it causes wheezing. Wheezing or the coarse whistling or musical sound produced with breathing is produced in the respiratory tract. The reason for its occurrence can be placed to the cause that a part of the bronchial tubes and branches are obstructed. This is aggravated by the fact that these tubes also narrow down and cause further difficulty in breathing more freely. So those that suffer lung or respiratory infection produce the auditory effect of wheezing. These infections and obstructions take place primarily due to reaction to allergens and triggers. The triggers or allergens could be anything like animal dander, pollen during change of seasons, mold, dust mites and various other physical, emotional strain and stresses like menstrual cycle, work stress, family stress or anything. The intake of fried food, pickles and caffeinated drinks could also sometimes cause obstruction and infection in airways and asthma along with wheezing. So it is right in saying that the whistling or musical sound produced in asthma is caused primarily by 2 lung conditions namely, reduced airflow to the lungs followed by narrowing of airways and congestion in the lungs due to allergic substances in the air, and food. However it is wrong to diagnose wheezing and its underlying cause all by oneself, as only a specialist would be able to point out if it is something more serious requiring urgent professional help. It is right to say that knowing what causes wheezing in asthma would make you disease smart to know when you should seek professional medical help. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Know These Great Natural Remedies For Breathing Problems Knowing the origin of the breathing problem for effective natural remedies: Breathing is synonymous to inducing life, with some having persistent difficulty in breathing or labored breathing known as dyspnea. Difficulty in breathing could be due to causes like asthma, bronchitis, heart ailments, cold, chest congestion, asthma or even pneumonia. Breathing problems could also be indicative of serious ailments, so it is advisable that you consult a physician that would do a thorough diagnosis and sometimes suggest natural remedies for breathing problems. Some natural remedies for breathing problems Natural remedies for breathing problems would depend on the cause of the problem. One such remedy can be prepared at home with mixing equal quantities of rice flour and mustard powder. Then the mixture id boiled in water till it acquires a paste like consistency. This paste can be used for fermentation of the neck and chest by spreading them on a handkerchief. This remedy has been found to give good relief from breathing problem. Breathing exercises have greatly helped when breathing problem is caused by anxiety. Breathing exercises is best done with either the nose or mouth with the lips shut tight. Breathing out faster taking double the time taken to breathe in helps not only to relax the body and feel calm, but also to conserve the energy in the body. A proper positioned body with leaning against the wall would help as an effective natural remedy for breathing problems. It is difficult to overlook the natural remedy for the breathing problem caused with congestion in the chest. Consuming a paste made of 1/4th-teaspoon mustard seeds and honey would help. Another great natural remedy for breathing problem lies in boiling 2 tablespoons of fennel seeds in a cup of water till it is reduced to half. About a tablespoon of this liquid obtained after filtering can be consumes first in the morning. Breathing problems also find remedies in nutmeg, 3 tablespoons of powdered nutmeg boiled in 1 cup of sesame oil can be cooled and applied to the chest, nose and affected parts. Some great natural remedies for breathing problems involve the use the honey. Extract a teaspoon of oil from garlic and mix it with 3 teaspoon honey and consume this mixture 2 to 3 times a day. Another remedy with honey that helps in breathing problems due to chest congestion is boiling  a liter of water with 1 teaspoon of carom seed powder and 1 teaspoon turmeric powder. Honey is added to the cool mixture before consuming. Consuming a mixture of 1/4th teaspoon finely ground mustard seeds and honey helps in breathing problems due to chest congestion. Herbs find their place in the great natural remedies for breathing problems. Several herbs work wonders as tonics for the pulmonary system and help keep the lungs clear of congestion. Plantain, chickweed and violet act as excellent tonics while Colts foot and mullein act as relaxing expectorants. Other herbs like marshmallow, licorice and common mallow helps in aiding difficult breathing caused by breathing spasms and lung inflammation. Beside useful herbs like echinacea, lavender and rosemary help to boost the immune system by acting as anti-microbial. Herbal tea made of ginseng proves very useful to enhance the moods and eliminate or at least decrease breathing problems caused by stress and anxiety. In addition to natural remedies for breathing problems keeping away from allergic triggers, smoke of all kind, and pollution could prove effective in the prevention. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Know All About How To Cure Asthma Permanently Know about asthma to cure it permanently A large number of Americans suffer from asthma, with most asthmatics suffering from the ill affects of increased environment pollution and environmental toxic chemicals. It is significant to note that asthma proves life threatening, and it is best to recognize the early warning signs like swelling in the airways in the lungs, difficulty of breathing, congestion, pain, wheezing, dryness in the mouth, coughing, with a feverish feeling with expelling thick mucus and spasm. The common triggers for asthma could include allergies, infection in the upper respiratory tract, over exertion, or an improper diet. It is quite possible that symptoms for asthma could vary from person to person and it is necessary that one know the symptoms. Coughing could be a predominant sign and could be worse in early morning or night and you could also have wheezing and experience a tight feeling in the chest accompanied with panting and shortness of breath. Knowing how to cure asthma permanently rests on using medications, vitamins and natural ways. Knowing how to cure asthma permanently Pets like dogs, cats and birds could trigger off asthma, with the underlying problem being allergy to the dander, the dead skin that flakes off and not the hair. So avoid too close contact with your pet and do not allow him/her into your bedroom, as its dander would be present in the room for hours. Avoiding close contact with your pet and leaving him home when going on outings helps. Also whenever you handle your pet make sure to wash your hands with a disinfectant. Keeping your face away and bathing your pet every other week in warm water. Bathing your pet helps eliminate/reduce allergies contracted from the pets fur. The triggers for asthma could also lie in foods, with knowing and avoiding the triggers helping greatly in preventing asthmatic attacks. Peanuts, corn, chocolate and dairy products could trigger asthmatic attacks, while some could be allergic to certain type of antibiotics, tranquilizers, or hormones and some others to exposure to smoke, pollen, gas odors, and even automotive exhaust. Finding the trigger and eliminating it would provide the solution of how to cure asthma permanently, but surely. In addition consuming as a high protein diet with plenty of fruits and vegetables and eating small and more frequent meals would help. It is necessary to note that finding a permanent cure for asthma rests on elimination of dust mites, feces and dead bodies of mites that are very often found in bedrooms, as their favorite food is the dead cells that we excrete from time to time. It would help greatly to enclose mattresses on beds in an airtight cover and cover it further in a washable mattress pad. A weekly wash of these mattress pads and sheets used on bed and synthetic blankets every 15 days would help. Avoiding use of pillows made of kapok or feathers and using polyester or dacron pillows that are enclosed in airtight dust covers would help in the permanent cure of asthma. Try to avoid carpet and draperies and use washable area rugs and washable curtains. It is found that certain homeopathy medications help in the permanent cure of asthma. Arsenicum Album 30x, Blatta Orientalis 30C and Blatta Orientalis 30x help treat asthma, and bronchitis, while Lobelia Inflata 30x helps in treating asthma, cough, and hay-asthma. Arsenicum Album 12x helps in asthma, bronchitis, cough, and lung affectations and Arsenicum Iodatum 200C and Bryonia Alba 6X help in treatment of consumption, lung infection, cough and asthma. These remedies provide some of the how to cure asthma permanently. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Know About Great Homemade Asthma Remedies Lets talk all about it The number of people affected with asthmatic attacks if increasing and it is distressing to see many experience great difficulty in breathing and gasping with spasms and sudden involuntary contraction of the muscles of the minor air passages in the lungs. It is interesting to observe that this gasping is caused due to difficulty in exhaling rather than inhaling, with managing these attacks or asthmatic incidents being done with effective homemade asthma remedies that aid breathing easy and clear. It is also true that these attacks can also be controlled considerably with these remedies from home. Great homemade asthma remedies Asthma that results due to the bodys reaction to one or more allergic substances that causes recurrent attacks of breathlessness between periods of normal breathing can be helped with homemade asthma remedies. However it is best to entrust yourself to professional care if the asthmatic attack is too severe and your lips turn blue and you are in a severe state of lethargy and confusion. Great homemade asthma remedies from your kitche You would benefit in knowing that honey, forms the basis of many homemade remedies and you would definitely benefit from this product that forms an integral part of most kitchens. Just holding a jug of honey under the nose of your friend that is asthmatic helps in making him breathe easy and deep in just a few minutes. Indian gooseberry that is rich in Vitamin C and helps fight infection is the next home remedy that can be combined with honey to give relief from asthma. You or your friend that may be an asthmatic could benefit from taking a mixture of 5 grams of gooseberry combined with a tablespoon of honey first thing in the morning. This would really help, with taking Indian gooseberry regularly in some form or the other helping to fight infection and promote good health. You could benefit from using ginger that forms the basis of most kitchens. If you are an asthmatic just take a teaspoon of fresh ginger juice and mix it to water in which fenugreek seeds have been boiled and filtered. Add honey to taste and consume this great remedy once in the morning and in the evening. You would be rid of the phlegm in a jiffy and would feel real good and relieved. Figs and lemon rank among some of the great homemade asthma remedies from ones kitchen. A few figs can be soaked overnight in warm water and taken in the morning. Figs have been known to provide you great comfort as an asthmatic patient when you have to eliminate the phlegm. You could enjoy a glass of lemon juice diluted in water along with your meals and experience the most liked remedy for asthma from your kitchen. Homemade asthma remedies with elimination of environmental triggers Asthma that is caused with allergies from the environment and dust could be eliminated starting from the home. Some may be allergic to pet dander, dust mites and other indoor pollutants. If you are asthmatic and the cause lies in pet dander or hair, it is best to minimize or eliminate pets at home. In addition, having a good quality cooling or heating system at home with air filters could help bring about good quality of indoor air. Vacuuming the house regularly and making sure to use bedcovers and pillows that have hypo-allergic covers have helped many find relief in asthma. Did you experience the great homemade asthma remedies work? Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Home Remedies For Asthma in Kids That Really Work Asthma in kids – a cause of great concern It is astonishing to note that asthma accounts for the largest number of chronically ill kids, affecting more than 5.5 million. These attacks could range from mild to more severe forms and could also be a threat to life. This respiratory disorder caused with tremor of bronchis smooth muscle, swelling of the lining of the lungs and accretion of thick mucus is most commonly found in children below the age of 10 years. It is quite common to find kids experiencing symptoms like severe occurrences of wheezing, coughing, shortness in breathing that could develop gradually or all of a sudden and be followed with a calm period or moderately incessant pattern of symptoms that are persistent. However there is still hope as research is on to contain the symptoms and develop more efficient ways of treatment. The number of home remedies for asthma in kids cannot be overlooked considering their safety and desirability. Some home remedies for asthma in kids that have really worked Understanding the causes for asthma attacks among kids could suggest suitable home remedies. These allergens could be dust mites, pollen, mold, and pet dander, dust mites and pollen are both airborne allergens. So home remedies for asthma in kids lies in installing an air-purifier at home and removing carpets, pets and upholstered furniture. Identifying food allergens that could be chocolates, eggs, nuts, fish, wheat, citrus, milk, food preservative, artificial colors and flavorings could help. Asthma could also be non-allergic with triggers like dry air, cold weather, exercise, smoke, strong perfume, stressful situations, intense emotions, and even laughing. Avoiding asthma attacks with emotional triggers would require training kids to be calm and at ease, with ensuring that they are trained in relaxation techniques with yoga, meditation and deep breathing exercises. Setting aside some time in the kids daily schedule for relaxation exercises would help. In addition developing a positive attitude coupled with learning methods to cope with asthma attacks would help cope better and prevent breathing from becoming more difficult. Though some feel that exercise could trigger an asthma attack, research indicate that home remedies for asthma in kids rest on getting a regular dose of aerobic exercise. These exercises could lead to breathing exercises if not done without a warm-up, so doing light exercises to warm up before the vigorous workouts helps. It would also make sense to start off on a gradual note and increase the extent of exercising in steps. Make sure that the kids keep their bronchodilator handy to use in case of need. Also insisting on your kid wearing a scarf over the nose and chest in cold or dry air would help. Cooling off with some light exercises is also advisable. Building a strong resistant power form an important part of home remedies for asthma in kids. So a healthy diet containing great amount of Vitamin E, C, beta-carotene, selenium, copper and zinc helps provide antioxidants that protect the lungs from free radicals that trigger bronchial constriction. In addition, Omega-3 foods like halibut, mackerel, herring and salmon help. Home food is preferable to restaurants,  as you could never be sure what would trigger an asthma attack. Make sure you inquire about the ingredients before ordering or eating anything outside. Also instill the habit in the kid to neither overeat nor eat too fast or talk while eating. You could be sure that these home remedies for asthma in kids would surely work. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Great Natural Remedies For Acute Bronchitis Bronchitis caused by inflammation of the mucous membrane could lead to obstruction in the airways with continual coughing. The mucous membrane in the bronchi tube becomes instrumental in trapping bacteria and other pathogens that causes risk of infecting the lungs and the respiratory system. Bronchitis could be either acute or chronic. It is best realizing that that acute bronchitis could show up as a cough, accompanied or not with phlegm or sputum. Acute bronchitis could develop even from a prolonged viral infection and its medical treatment depends on treating the cause. Acute bronchitis could last for a period of 4 to 6 weeks, with the elderly, very young and smokers being more susceptible to these attacks. However there are many natural remedies for acute bronchitis that help contain the attack and feel good. Some great natural remedies for acute bronchitis Natural remedies for acute bronchitis rest on the consumption of a paste prepared from half a teaspoon honey, fresh ginger paste, black pepper powder and powder of cloves. Honey is recognized as the main ingredient that helps to open up blocked tubes existing between the lungs and throat, with this mixture helping in clearing breathing and soothing blocked and sore throats. Turmeric, also known for its healing and anti-inflammatory properties proves to be one of the natural remedies for acute bronchitis. Turmeric helps not just in relieving lung congestion with its anti-inflammatory property but also helps to soothe the throat when taken in a cup of hot milk. Combined with black pepper it could give better healing effects. Take this remedy twice a day during the acute stages. Treat, liquefy and soften the dry phlegm with ginger and experience its expectorant quality. Ginger tea can be prepared with adding a teaspoon of grated ginger to 2 cups of boiling water and allowing standing for some time. Drinking this tea with a teaspoon of honey has greatly helped in clearing the congestion in the bronchial tract or acute bronchitis. You could definitely try tea made of colts foot, dried mullein and anise seed in a cup of boiling water. This tea is to be steeped for about 5 minutes before being stained and consumed. This natural remedy for acute bronchitis acts as an antispasmodic, expectorant and demulcent and proves very effective. Another effective natural remedy lies in drinking a potion made by boiling bay leaf in water. Drinking it after allowing it to stand for 5 minutes has the effect of an antibiotic and antispasmodic. It helps fight infection and soothe the respiratory tract walls. Healthy diet as natural remedies for acute bronchitis Natural remedies for acute bronchitis rest on overcoming the inertia to eat with overcoming the infected lung condition. Drinking a lot of fluids like herbal teas, both hot and cold, juices of orange, grapefruit and squeezed apple is highly recommended to avoid becoming weak after an attack of acute bronchitis. Taking pure filtered water, hot or cold with some lime helps fight constipation and keep one free of build up of toxins. With time you could switch to foods like chicken and vegetable broth, whole wheat baked goods like crackers and bread for toast, and whole grains like brown rice and lentils. Eating all fruits and vegetables would also help. These great natural remedies for acute bronchitis sure work. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Turning Blue – The Main Symptom of Cyanotic Congenital Heart Turning Blue – The Main Symptom of Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease When the blood that has pure oxygen blends with venous blood, cyanotic congenital heart disease takes place. When infants are affected by cyanotic congenital heart disease, the usual symptoms are that the nail beds and the lips will start becoming blue. This is because there is very less amount of oxygen in the blood. The other problems faced because of cyanotic congenital heart disease is that a force begins bypassing the lungs and then the blood is delivered in a venous nature that is deoxygenated blood. This is done from the right side of the heart and to the arteries, and from there the circulation of blood to the rest of the body is done. Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease  An Upsetting disease Cyanotic congenital heart disease comes in different forms and it is more complex and troublesome than the acyanotic ailments. The general examples of cyanotic congenital heart disease are tetralogy of fallot, transposition of the great vessels, total anomalous pulmonary venous return, and hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Cyanotic congenital heart disease is an illness that exists from birth and causes damages to the heart that eventually results in deoxygenated blood. When the heart is defected, the blood flow around the heart and lungs become very abnormal and this causes deoxygenated blood. The common symptom of cyanotic congenital heart disease in children is that their skin becomes blue as well as their lips, fingers, toes, and even when the child performs some exercise. Immediately after birth cyanotic congenital heart disease can prove to be a complex issue, though at other times it is not something to bother about. There is no necessity that cyanotic congenital heart disease must only affect the heart. This disease also affects the other organs. However, most of the time congenital heart disease is acyanotic. Most of the time congenital heart disease treatment is surgery, however, in some other cases treatment itself is not required. On the brighter side, the patients suffering from congenital heart disease can live a very normal life irrespective of whether they have undergone treatment. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | How to Prevent Children Rheumatic Heart Disease? There are several ways of preventing heart disease with regards to adults like maintain a healthy diet that includes low consumption of fat and intake of food low in cholesterol. However, for children there are several other ways of preventing heart disease to protect their heart from further damage. When a child experiences rheumatic fever, he/she is more likely to experience childrens rheumatic heart disease. This occurs between the age of five and fifteen. Rheumatic fever is the reason behind inflammation of the connective tissues of the body like the heart, joints, brain, as well as the skin. When a child is hit by rheumatic fever, it can cause childrens rheumatic heart disease that blocks the valves of the heart making the mechanism of it to open and close difficult. In certain severe cases, it causes the enlargement of the heart thus making it difficult for the heart to pump blood to the rest of the body causing a heart failure. Aid For Childrens Rheumatic Heart Disease If the parents feel their child is experiencing a strep throat, the immediate step must be to get it checked by a doctor and treat the possible infection. This is because a strep throat can lead to rheumatic fever if it is not treated with antibiotics at the earliest. Rheumatic fever once experienced by a child keeps recurring, which is why the lifelong usage of antibiotics comes into existence to avoid this recurrence. There is no necessity that a rheumatic fever always leads to childrens rheumatic heart disease, or if the damage is done to the heart after the fever is over. Tests must be done to see if there is any damage done to the heart. A chest x-ray is one way of findings out. They look out for any kind of fluid in the heart or lungs that is a symptom of damage to the heart valves. An echocardiogram done that pictures the heart through sound waves helps in testing childrens rheumatic heart disease. If there is a major damage done to the heart valves then surgery is the only option for the valves to be fixed and replaced appropriately. The best possible way to avoid this illness would be to get a treatment immediately after the child experiences a strep throat, and if symptoms persist like joint pain or inflammation after the strep then the child need to be taken back to perform some tests. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Why Adult Congenital Heart Disease Become Important Now? Before the year 1987, not many researches and studies were done to understand adult congenital heart disease. This is because this disease was more often associated with children than with adults that made the medical professionals overlook adult congenital heart disease. The fact is that since there were not many people affected by adult congenital heart disease, it was not given so much importance. Adult Congenital Heart disease  Not a Medical Sub-Specialty In the early eighties adult congenital heart disease was not even seen as a medical sub-specialty although the children affected by congenital heart disease had become adults in the early eighties that made people to give more attention to this disorder. The studies and researches conducted now on adult congenital heart disease are now specifying the ways in which this disorder can be treated. The person suffering from adult congenital heart disease has certain specific requirements that only experts in this field can deal with. The very important factor that the medical professionals must look into is to treat even adult congenital heart disease instead of just looking into the baby congenital heart disease cases. On the brighter side, there are several medical professionals who are capable of handling adult congenital heart disease and understand the difference between adult and children congenital heart disease. Moreover, these professionals are capable of handling severe cases like arrhythmias as well as chronic heart failure. Adult congenital heart disease patients experience several issues; therefore, the treatment often suggested handles childhood repair as well as look into the new instances of adult congenital heart disease defects with pregnant women and instances of arrhythmias. The treatment for a complicated adult congenital heart disease is also complicated. Thus this illness requires congenital heart disease surgeons, interventional cardiologists, as well as electrophysiologists. The reduction in oxygen levels in the blood causes cyanotic congenital heart disease, and this can take place in different forms rather than in separation. This affects the normal functioning of the blood vessels as well as the heart. The outcome of this type of congenital heart disease is that the blood flow near the lungs and heart gets modified causing the reduction in oxygen in the blood as it moves the various parts of the body. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Quit Smoking – What happens when you quit smoking? It is universally accepted that smoking is not only bad but dangerous to life. People find it to quit smoking but it is essential that they should know what reactions and fluctuations take place when smoking. Though knowledge of the dangers does not compel smokers to quit the dreaded habit immediately, it may help them in the long run. Even when one is determined to quit smoking it will take time because of the terrible attraction and pull for smoking. To quit smoking is not as easy as it looks but information about its effect is always useful. One of the most significant effects when you stop smoking is that your lungs heal slowly from the horrible state due to constant smoking. Cigarettes are full of tar which causes lot of damage. While the smoke is exhaled, the tar remains intact inside your lungs. When you stop smoking the tar slowly clears out and the lungs become normal with in a few years of quitting. The damage done to the lungs is surely reversible. When you stop smoking your lungs become clear though a lot coughing may persist. Your vulnerability for heart attack and stroke are drastically reduced even though you may have a family history of these conditions. All systems of the body are under a heavy strain because of smoking and the smokers do not realize it. Once you quit the habit your body becomes normal and you feel better and healthier. You are pleasantly surprised to feel that your taste has improved soon after you quit smoking. Smoking destroys the taste buds preventing you from enjoying the original taste of the foods you take. Taste buds revive and function normally as soon as you stop smoking and you can relish what ever food you take. This may be reason for the weight loss gain in people who quit smoking. You feel much better about yourself and start wondering how people looked at you before quitting. Now you can easily spot other smokers even when they don’t smoke as they have a smell of smoke around them which they themselves cannot feel. It is only the non smoker who can feel that smoky smell. You can feel the world around you in a much better manner. You suddenly feel, look, and smell better after you quit smoking. Arent you happy about these bonuses on top of your new found health? Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | What Causes Aging? Most of the advertising you get to see, indoor or outdoor, is targeted at the aging group where a model promotes the product to be the most effective remedy for aging and claims that it can turn you to a young, slim, fair and what not personality. However these anti-aging products are in supply because they are in great demand. This demand has grown keeping in mind those conscious people who prefer to hide their age behind cosmetics. Studies say that after you cross twenties you start to grow old and there stops the hope of becoming beautiful. But the secret to look healthy, young and beautiful is here. Keeping your inner self clean and happy is the best way to keep looking young and radiant. The Beauty Lie Within Us There are many factors that cause aging but the most definite factor is bad nutrition. Many professions demand traveling and getting nutritious food becomes a trouble. There people give up on their health for convenience. But a little effort can get you a healthy and nutritious meal that ensures a good healthy and skin. Extremes in food habits can also cause aging faster and there is no alternative for a balanced diet. Pollution, tobacco smoke, radiation and some chemicals emit extreme toxin substances contaminating the nature. But there is a natural way to get rid of these health hazardous substances from our body. Foods that contain antioxidants in abundance are the best source to cut down these free radicals. Any brightly colored fruit or green leafy vegetable when consumed directly are rich source of antioxidants. Lack of sleep is another major reason for early aging. To keep physically fit and mentally healthy eight hours of sleep is required by a normal person. While sleeping body falls into a calm condition and all systems are repaired. The dark circles under the eyes can also be avoided. Our immune system and health are at their best when we take rest and we are less likely to fall ill and age early Alcoholism and smoking also cause aging. Alcohol consumption is nothing but drinking unnecessary and empty calories. Wine is considered a health drink but remember that it is only adding unwanted calories to your health. Drinking only increases the chances of gaining extra pounds and damages personal and professional life. Another bad factor is the habit of smoking. Smoking not only has an ill effect on our skin but also does extensive damage to our lungs making us fall ill.  Preventing such illness is in our hands. That is in short aging is to a great extent in our hands. However, genes and many genetic factors play a vital role in the process of aging, control on other environmental factors are completely in our hands. Curtailing and slowly putting a stop to the bad habits and eventually cultivating good ones can bring your life, health and skin back to normal, young and radiant. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Some Basic Tips On Healthy Aging Most of us are not health conscious in this world of pollution and adulteration. Youth makes us forget the fact that all of us have to age one day and that life is not permanent. However all the unhealthy and bad habits nurtured when young takes on our health when we reach the later years of life. We can expect a healthy aging only if we have taken complete care of our physical and mental body when young. Healthy aging is not a challenge and is as mysterious as posed. If you have just crossed your middle age you are one amongst the lucky lot. You still are at the benefit of reversing your habits for a healthy living. Remember that healthy aging is a big milestone in our lives and to accomplish this stage we should not take things for granted. Eating Good Is The Right Decision An early investment in your health is a smart way to age with good and stress free health. If you have not been taking proper care of your health till now, this is the right time to get back to good and healthy habits. The first thing on the list should be to quit smoking. There should be no compromise on your health when it comes to smoking. Stop the habit before it over you and your aging health. Most of us know that active and chain smokers often suffer from lung cancer. It does not only stop from affecting the smoker. Every year a lot of non-smokers die due to lung cancer, for no reason of theirs. Passive smoking or secondary smokers have weak lungs due to the exposure of cigarette smokes around them, leading to lung cancer. Diet plays a vital role in determining the process of aging. A healthy aging can be achieved only with a nutritious and a balanced diet. Prioritize healthy and wholesome food, keeping aside the desire to have fast food, because this can influential a healthy aging to a great extent. Fast foods can save time and cost but it does not contain the right amount of nutrients required by our body to keep healthy and strong. Do you know that fast foods are rich in unwanted calories, fats and carbohydrates? Excess of fat and carbohydrates can only pave way to diseases like diabetes, obesity, hypertension and many others in old age. The ideal way to restore health and age is to avoid fast food completely. Remember fast foods means no health only aging. Replace fast food patterns with healthy foods like whole grains, fruits and vegetables. Drinking 8 -10 glasses water everyday can also help you stay fit and healthy as it flushes out all the toxins from the body. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | How to Jack up your Poor Health with Natural Herbs The idea of smoking natural herbs is mistaken for drug abuse and is considered a   euphemism for it.  This is an incorrect statement as history provides innumerable instances and evidences of using natural herbs to smoke to counteract a number of, illness. The Negative Aspects of Smoking Over the last 25 years tobacco smoking has come under attack.  By 1964according to estimates, half of the population of the US was addicted to cigarettes and tobacco.  As a result there was a sudden spurt in cardio vascular diseases and other cancers.  There after smoking has been reduced and restricted on account of these, smoking any herb was condemned and castigated though it was a natural herb. Types of Natural Herbs to Smoke Quite a good number of natural herbs offer themselves to smoke like Mugwart that helps to relax, calm down and reduce stress.  St. John s Wort is used for mild psychiatric conditions like depression and anxiety.  Lobelia leaf is used for muscle relaxation.  There are a number of benefits one can derive by smoking natural herbs.  The misuse or abuse of the drugs will undermine all the benefits inherent in them. No Chronic Smoking of Natural Herbs Problems will arise by the abuse of natural herbs though they are capable of giving a number of benefits.  In, other words ingesting a lot of smoke in to the lungs is detrimental and causes many side effects if it continues for a number of years.  So smoking natural herbs should be, off and on, and not continuously to be described as abusive.  The very purpose of promoting proper health through smoking natural herbs is defeated if there is chain smoking. It is only for toning up the person s physical and mental condition that natural herbs should be smoked.  They are not for recreation and using them for this purpose should be a tattoo.  This clear provision should never be forgotten. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Who are all Vulnerable to Rheumatic Heart Disease? A person who is suffering from rheumatic fever is bound to get the valves of heart affected and this condition is known as rheumatic heart disease. Reasons for Rheumatic Fever Majority of the children in the age group of 5 to 15 years will get strep throat and if this situation in left untreated, then the condition will result in Rheumatic fever. Rheumatic fever will manifest as painful inflammation of the connective tissues in joints, skin, heart, etc. Almost 50 percent of people who have had rheumatic fever will get their heart’s valves damaged. However, after the advent of broad-spectrum antibiotics such as penicillin, rheumatic fever made its hasty retreat and the related rheumatic heart disease also seen a decline. What Exactly is Rheumatic Heart Disease? Damage caused to the heart’s valves is medically known as Rheumatic heart disease. In your heart there are four valves that control inflow and outflow of blood in heart chambers and these valves also control blood flow in correct direction. In case of damage to one of these valves, the blood may ooze out or might get reversed in its flow from the intended direction. Depending upon the extent of damage to the valves, the rheumatic heart disease is classified as mild to extremely serious. In the event of severe damage to the heart’s valves, the heart might find it difficult to pump blood and in the process the heart will lose its efficiency due to poor heart muscle strength and the condition will lead to congestive heart failure. Congestive heart failure is a condition where one’s heart muscles loses its blood pumping efficiency and the heart will also get enlarged and making it to protrude and exert pressure in adjacent chambers of viscera. In case of severity, even blood can ooze back into lungs causing lung congestion. Rheumatic heart disease in its mild form may not necessitate any medical intervention at all, but in an extreme case surgery either for replacing or repairing the heart valves will be necessary. When it comes to symptoms of rheumatic heart disease, it will vary depending upon the level of damage to the valves and the symptoms will be like irregular heartbeats, dizziness, fatigue, and shortness of breath. Persons affected with rheumatic hear disease will also be very susceptible to other inflammatory infections like myocarditis, which is nothing but heart tissue inflammation . In order to prevent the risks of secondary infection or inflammation, persons affected with rheumatic heart disease should take antibiotics on a daily basis. There may be even chances for your doctor or your dentist prescribing additional antibiotics before any general surgery or dental related treatment. A Prudent Tip If you have had rheumatic fever when you were a child, then make it a point to tell the fact to your doctor every time. In case of any appointment with your dentist, then make it doubly ensured that you tell your dentist about your rheumatic fever incidence during your childhood. The above precaution will help you in avoiding any unanticipated complications of secondary infection and the treating doctor or dentist can take preventive measures to save you from such infections. [tags]Antibiotics, Rheumatic Heart Disease, Heart Enlargement[/tags] Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Little Known Curative Effects of Herbs for Asthma Breathing is a spontaneous activity of the body and no body thinks of it as life begins with breathing.  Asthma makes breathing difficult as the passage conducting air to lungs becomes restricted or inflamed.  Because of diseased breathing and attempt to take in oxygen your energy is sapped and you become very weak. A severe asthma attack may also prove fatal. Asthma can be triggered by many causes.  Allergies to food and certain substances can restrict the airways.  Illness and even certain medicines may lead to an asthma attack.   Asthma attacks are sudden and surprising and treatment by the doctor is only possible after the attack. Medicines or Herbs for asthma Asthma has no medicinal cure and herbs for asthma play a large part in building up the immunity of the person to asthma attack.  Doctor s treatment for asthma is only symptomatic and does not address the root cause of the disease.  During an asthma attack the patient uses an inhaler filled with steroids to clear and open the way to lungs.  There will be a relief for the time being but inhalation does not cure the disease as such will it not be better to treat the root cause of asthma instead of treating its symptoms only?   The patient should carry the inhaler with him always fearing an attack of asthma at any time. Herbs for asthma strengthen the lungs.  By following herbs for asthma regimen you can strengthen your system and build up immunity to factors that trigger asthma attacks and make breathing easier. Think of taking herbs for asthma if you are interested in holistic medicine and natural care of your body.  Herbs like coltsfoot, mullein and bar berry have been used for centuries to treat lung conditions including asthma.  Other herbs for asthma are garlic, hyssop, fennel, blessed thistle, nettles, elecampane, elder, chickweed, ginseng and goldenseal. Taking herbs for asthma is the best and great way to treat the problem instead of treating the symptoms.  Herbal effects can be seen over a long time but if you take herbs faithfully, you will strengthen your lungs and asthma attacks will surely decline. Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Taking a Temporary Refuge in a Natural Snoring Spray On any count snoring will certainly be a pain especially on the ears of other persons. Unfortunately, snoring can never be considered as normal because snoring is an indication for some other underlying medical issues such as sleep apnea. If you are a victim to sleep apnea, then the condition will see that you do not sleep peacefully during nights and due to the result of which you will feel tired in the morning. When it comes to remedies for snoring there are many remedies available ranging from temporary to permanent cure for your snoring. Today, in market, there is one snoring spray that is claimed to be very effective in stopping your snoring with a single spray before going to bed. Though there is no claim about giving a permanent cure against your snoring, these snoring sprays are widely distributed by distributors and are used by people for containing their snoring temporarily. Snoring is normally caused during sleep and when the relaxed soft palate tissues present on the upper throat area of a person vibrate due to breathing the vibration is heard as snoring. Whenever a person is more relaxed during sleep, the soft palate tissues will also get relaxed more than the normal and in the event it will vibrate more to produce a louder snoring. Under such condition, if a snoring spray is used, it will firm up the relaxed palate tissues and prevent them from vibrating. Surgery is the Best but should be the Last Option Though a snorer is sure to drive the sleeping partner out of the room and probably out of home itself, the person should first learn to understand that snoring is an indication of some other underlying medical condition such as obstructive sleep apnea. Once you retire to bed and begin to sleep all your body muscles will start to relax. In the process, the relaxed soft palate tissues present on the upper area of your throat will tend to fall back in your throat area there by blocking your free airway. Under this condition, the breathed in air on its way to your lungs will cause vibration in these soft tissues and the vibration is nothing but the snoring. Further there will be momentary stoppage of breathing and this will make you to wake up and take few deep breathing and you will fall back to sleep again without even aware of your acts. This cycle may get repeated many times in the night and this besides resulting in snoring in you, it will also result in a very poor sleep quality thus making you tired in the morning. If your doctor diagnose your case and decides it to be very acute then your doctor may take a drastic decision of subjecting you to surgical correction for curing your snoring and throat airway block. However, in the event of milder snoring or your snoring not indicative of any other health issues, a snoring spray can usually help. Majority of these snoring sprays are made out of natural ingredients and hence they do not pose any health threat even if used for prolonged periods. Snoring is an indication of disrupted breathing and though a snoring spray can initially stop your snoring, it is possible that in the process you may also likely to mask some of the possible symptoms of underlying health related issues in you. Hence, you must consult your doctor and get to know the exact reason for your snoring before you get settled with the snoring spray use. In one of the recent studies, it was found that frequent and consistent snorers are more prone to contracting diseases such as diabetes because obese and overweight person tend to snore more and these two factors are also responsible for onset of diabetes in a person. Hence make it a point to consult your doctor the moment you come to know of your snoring habit for any further clarifications and treatments. [tags]Snoring Spray, Disrupted Breathing, Air Block[/tags] Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Learn to Understand your Snoring in Relation to Sleep Apnea Possibility Of various sleep related disorders, Sleep apnea is one and a person should never ignore this particular sleep disorder, as sleep apnea is a very serious health-related issue. Many people fail to take their snoring habit lightly without understanding the underlying seriousness, as snoring may be an indication of sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea in a person. Sleep Apnea and Sleeping Disorder A person who suffers from a sleeping disorder of Sleep apnea tend to experience momentary stoppage of breath during sleep and this will make the person wake up with a bated breath and the person will fall asleep again without being aware of the condition. This particular cycle is known as apnea, and the person will undergo momentary breathing stoppage and wake up stage many times in one single night and the person can seldom recall the incidences. Sleep apnea disorder is of two types and they are central sleep apnea and obstructive sleep apnea.  In the central sleep apnea instance, the breathing will get interrupted due to absence of any effort, and in obstructive sleep apnea the breathing will get interrupted due to blockage of airway passage despite the person s effort to breathe normally. When you go into the matter and analyze the sleep apnea syndrome more deeply, you can come to understand that the affected person s brain area that controls breathing will skip the breathing action momentarily, and exactly under this situation only the person will wake up from sleep with a bated breath. You can also notice the person breathing fast under such situations, which is nothing but the rescue and corrective mechanism triggered by the brain function to compensate the skipped breath. Sleep apnea though a commonly observed disorder in many people, it is a serious health issue that has to be attended to immediately. A person with sleep apnea will become more sleepy all through the day due to the absence of sufficient relaxation caused out of interrupted sleep cycle.  Further, a person can also undergo serious behavioural changes that may affect his/her overall life and leave the person a distressed one. When you suffer from sleep apnea, you will not have a peaceful sleep during night and your body will not get sufficiently relaxed so as to get prepared to meet the next day s demanding schedules. Due to your frequent bated breath and wake up states, you will also be deprived of enough oxygen in your lungs and blood resulting in a very poor sleep quality and a very poor relaxation. Suffering from sleep apnea will not stop with you only, as the trouble experienced by you is also capable of shaking your other family members and the situation can rob the peace from the entire family. Hence, it is always suggested to consult a doctor the moment you identify any of your sleeping disorders with that of sleep apnea and there are many methods with which you can easily get cured of your sleep apnea disorder. [tags]Apnea, Sleep Disorder, Medical Condition[/tags] Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Learning to Read the Signs Of Heart Disease Nature has provided your body a mechanism to display warning messages in the form of pain or other forms of symptoms and such symptoms are always an outcome of some underlying dangers or diseases in your body. Similarly, in the event of impending heart ailment you are bound to see a sign of heart disease and in the best interests of your health you should learn to read it and can never afford to ignore the symptoms. The very first sign of heart disease is obviously the chest pain. Though this particular symptom will be more prominent or pronounced, you may also get other signs of heart disease such as swellings in leg, pain in feet during walking, shortness of breath, hypertension and high cholesterol. All these exhibited signs are in fact indications of the underlying heart disease in you. Acute chest pain is also known as angina , and what you experience will be a pain with pressure over your chest. Such angina will appear during any physical activity and in case you get angina during your total rest condition, then such pain is known as unstable angina, which is a sure sign of heart disease and you can come to a conclusion that a severe heart attack is looming over your head. A yet another very common sign of heart disease is shortness in breathing and this happens when your heart could not pump enough blood into your body system including your heart. Shortness of breath can cause fluid collection in your lungs that in turn makes the situation worse. Hence this particular shortness of breath sign is certainly a sure sign of heart disease and it is better you consult your doctor without any loss of time. Swelling in Legs due to Blocked Arteries Sometimes, you may notice swelling in your leg and feet and this may be due to fluid accumulation in these areas. Fluid collection in legs and feet could be a possible sign of heart disease, hence you should consult your doctor early and if the symptoms are combined with shortness of breath then you should immediately contact your doctor. Sometimes you may experience pain in your calf muscles area during exercise, and if the pain subsides after the exercise is over then there is no need to worry. However, if the pain is persisting or if you experience pain in your legs even without and exercise activity, then it may be due to blocked arteries and is a sign of heart disease. High cholesterol levels, especially LDL levels and high blood pressure are also considered as classic signs of heart disease. Get your blood pressure level and cholesterol level checked regularly, preferably twice in a year if you fall under high-risk group. A higher level of cholesterol in your blood will make your blood thick and this will make your heart to pump harder. Due to your heart s hard pumping action, your blood pressure will also increase and cause many other related complications. [tags]Artery Block, Early Symptoms, Shortness of Breath, Exercise[/tags] Comments (0) | Posted in Health Over 50 | Next Posts »» «« Previous Posts Blog Categories Health Over 50 Reviews Resources Subscribe RSS 2.0 Comments RSS 2.0 RSS 0.92 Atom 0.3 Monthly Archives By Month April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008 January 2008 December 2007 November 2007 October 2007 September 2007 August 2007 July 2007 June 2007 May 2007 April 2007 March 2007 February 2007 January 2007 December 2006 November 2006 October 2006 September 2006 August 2006 July 2006 June 2006 May 2006 April 2006 March 2006 February 2006 January 2006 December 2005 November 2005 October 2005 September 2005 Copyright - © 2005 - 2012 Health Over 50 All Rights Reserved. - Privacy Policy - Disclosure Disclaimer : All the information related to various health problems provided on this blog is for your information purpose only. Kindly do not use any of the information contained on this blog for diagonising or treating any kind of health problem or dis