
NDEP | Diabetes Information, Education, and Treatment Skip navigation | Go to main navigation U.S. department of health and human services Search NDEP site NDEP is a partnership of the National Institutes of Health , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , and more than 200 public and private organizations. Home Publications Resources Diabetes Facts Press I Have Diabetes Am I at Risk? Health 
					Care Professionals, Businesses & Schools Partners 
					& Community Organizations About NDEP | Contact Us | Site Map Tengo diabetes ¿Corro riesgo? You are here: NDEP Home > Am I at Risk? > It’s Never Too Early…To Prevent Diabetes > Diagnosing and Managing Gestational Diabetes Diagnosing and Managing Gestational Diabetes What is gestational diabetes? Gestational diabetes is diabetes that is found for the first time when a woman is pregnant. Diabetes means that your blood glucose (also called blood sugar) is too high. Your body uses glucose for energy. But too much glucose in your blood can be harmful. When you are pregnant, too much glucose is not good for your baby. Often, women with gestational diabetes have no symptoms. However, gestational diabetes may increase your risk of high blood pressure during pregnancy increase your risk of a large baby and the need for cesarean section at delivery Untreated or uncontrolled gestational diabetes can mean problems for your baby as well, such as being born very large and with extra fat; this can make delivery difficult and more dangerous for your baby low blood glucose right after birth breathing problems Gestational diabetes is serious, even if you have no symptoms. Taking care of yourself helps keep your baby healthy. Treating gestational diabetes means taking steps to keep your blood glucose levels in a target range. You can control your blood glucose using a meal plan physical activity insulin (if needed) Working closely with your health care team will help you give birth to a healthy baby. To learn more about gestational diabetes during pregnancy, including how gestational diabetes will affect you and your baby and important tips for managing gestational diabetes, visit diabetes.niddk.nih.gov/dm/pubs/gestational/ What Happens After Baby is Born? If you had gestational diabetes, you should be tested for diabetes 6 to 12 weeks after your baby is born. In many cases your blood glucose levels will show that you are no longer considered to have diabetes. But what many people don’t realize is that new moms who had gestational diabetes will continue to have a greater risk for getting diabetes in the future. So even if the test for diabetes is normal right after the baby is born, these women should continue to get tested for diabetes at least every three years. Additionally, the children of women who have a history of gestational diabetes are also at increased risk for obesity and diabetes. Be sure to tell your child’s pediatrician that you had gestational diabetes so the child’s growth and other factors can be monitored accordingly. Learn more about how to manage these increased risks and keep yourself and your baby healthy . ^ top Connect with NDEP: Office of Research on Women’s Health Know Your Score Widget. Flash Player 9 is required. In This Section Diagnosing and Managing Gestational Diabetes Take Action Now to Prevent Diabetes Later Partners and Community Organizations Additional Resources Diabetes Topics: Select Topic Am I at Risk Blood Glucose (Blood Sugar) Blood Pressure Cholesterol Controlling Diabetes Foot Care Gestational Diabetes Healthy Eating Heart Disease I Have Diabetes Physical Activity Preventing Diabetes Recipes Schools Social Support Teens and Diabetes Find Publications for Me How to use this hide info To find publications specific to your search, select from the options provided below. To view more publications, select fewer options.  At least one option must be selected. Age Age Teens and Children Adults Older Adults [60+] Not Applicable Diabetes Status Diabetes Status Have Diabetes Have Prediabetes Am at Risk Don't Know Not Applicable Ethnicity/Race Ethnicity/Race White (Non-Hispanic) African American American Indians/Alaska Native Asian American/Pacific Islander Hispanic/Latino American Not Applicable Language Language Bengali Cambodian Chamorro Chinese Chuukese English Gujarati Haitian Creole Hindi Hmong Indonesian Japanese Korean Laotian multi-language Samoan Spanish Tagalog Thai Tongan Urdu Vietnamese Not Applicable Privacy Statement Diabetes: Know Your Risk Diabetes Risk Test I Have Diabetes | Am I at Risk? | Health Care Professionals, Businesses & Schools | Partners & Communities Organizations Home | Publications | Resources | Diabetes Facts | Press | About NDEP | Contact Us | Site Map Contact NIDDK | Emergency | Privacy Statement | Disclaimers | Freedom of Information Act | For Sta