
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 07:56:03 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.64 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.64 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.3.8
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 07:56:03 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Medical Miracles of the Holy Quran | Amazing Quran Medical Miracles of the Holy Quran Medical Miracles of Quran The Quran cannot be produced by any creature.   It is the word of the Almighty God, the Originator of everything and the One Who encompasses everything with His knowledge.  As how could any creature reveal such scientific facts and signs, as indicated above in some Quranic verses, that were impossible to be known with the level of knowledge at the time of revelation? Introduction and significant points Fourteen centuries ago, Allah (SWT) sent down the Quran to mankind as a book of guidance. He called upon people to be guided to the truth by adhering to this book. From the day of its revelation to the day of judgement, this last divine book , the Holy Quran, will remain the sole guide, faith and a methodology of life for humanity. Fourteen centuries ago, Allah (SWT) sent down the Quran to mankind as a book of guidance. He called upon people to be guided to the truth by adhering to this book. From the day of its revelation to the day of judgement, this last divine book , the Holy Quran, will remain the sole guide, faith and a methodology of life for humanity. Allah (SWT) says in Quran : "Surely this Quran guides to the way that is straightest and gives good tidings to the believers who do deeds of righteousness, that theirs shall be a great wage." (18:9) (إن هذا القرآن يهدي للتي هي أقوم ويبشر المؤمنين الذين يعملون الصالحات أن لهم أجرا كبيرا)  الإسراء ( 9 ). The matchless style of the Quran and its superior wisdom are definite evidence that it is the word of God. In addition, the Quran has many miraculous attributes proving that it is a revelation from God. One of these attributes is the fact that a number of scientific truths that we have only been able to uncover by the technology of the 20th century were stated in the Quran 1,400 years ago. Of course the Quran is not a book of science. However, many scientific facts that are expressed in an extremely concise and profound manner in its verses have only been discovered with the technology of the 20th century. These facts could not have been known at the time of the Quran's revelation, and this is still more proof that the Quran is the word of God. In order to understand the scientific miracle of the Quran, we must first take a look at the level of science at the time when this holy book was revealed. In the 7th century, when the Quran was revealed, Arab society had many superstitious and groundless beliefs where scientific issues were concerned. Lacking the technology to examine the universe and nature, these early Arabs believed in legends inherited from past generations. They supposed, for example, that mountains supported the sky above. They believed that the earth was flat and that there were high mountains at its both ends. It was thought that these mountains were pillars that kept the vault of heaven high above. However all these superstitious beliefs of Arab society were eliminated with the Quran. In Surat Al Ra'ed (Chapter 13) , verse 2, it was said: "Allah is He who raised up the heavens without any pillars, that you can see " (The Quran, 13:2). (اللّهُ الَّذِي رَفَعَ السَّمَاوَاتِ بِغَيْرِ عَمَدٍ تَرَوْنَهَا) سورة الرعد : 13 This verse invalidated the belief that the sky remains above because of the mountains. In many other subjects, important facts were revealed at a time when no one could have known them. Few points need to be highlighted : Quran's principal objective is to form a righteous man and establish a virtuous community … Quran is not a book of astrology, or medicine. Quran's words need not reflect the norms of the present time, or have connotation to recent theories and knowledge... Quran's words are very well-contrived and accurate, as they are composed by Allah, Who has perfected everything. Quran's purposes of medical and scientific references, and miracles are numerous, of which the most significant are: Reinforcing and strengthening the faith in Moslems through motivation of admonition, deliberation and meditation. Giving non-Moslems conclusive evidences of the genuineness of Islam, as Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) was not to get acquainted with such scientific issues, which were not revealed except in the recent decades, unless told of by Allah the Almighty. "Soon will We show them our signs in the furthest horizons, and in their own souls, until it becomes manifest to them that this is the Truth…" (41: 53) (‏سنريهم آياتنا في الآفاق وفي أنفسهم حتى يتبين لهم أنه الحق أوَ لم يكف بربك أنه على كل شيء شهيد ) ‏ سورة فصلت (53) Let's take for example this verse "O mankind!  If ye have a doubt about Recreation ," (22:5) (يا أيها الناس إن كنتم في ريب من البعث) الحج : 5 here is the evidence: "surely We created you out of dust, then of a sperm-drop, then of a leech-like clot, then out of a lump of flesh,  formed and unformed, that We may make clearer (Our signs) to you; and We establish in the wombs what We will, till a stated term, then We deliver you as infants, then that you may come of age; and some of you die, and some of you are kept back unto the vilest state of life, that after knowing, they may know nothing…"  (22: 5) (فإنَّا خلقناكم من تراب ثم من نطفة ثم من علقة ثم من مضغة مخلقة وغير مخلقة لنبين لكم، ونقر في الأرحام ما نشاء إلى أجل مسمى، ثم نخرجكم طفلاً، ثم لتبلغوا أشدكم، ومنكم من يُتوفى ومنكم من يرد إلى أرذل العمر لكي لا يعلم من بعد علم شيئاً)  الحج (5) . The verse goes on; "and you see the earth barren, but when We send down water upon it, it quivers, and swells, and puts forth of every delightful pairs." (22: 5), (وترى الأرض هامدة فإذا أنزلنا عليها الماء اهتزت وربت وانتبت من كل زوج بهيج) الحج (5) Quran encourages all that helps reveal the secret of the universe and existence, and strengthens faith to Allah . "Say; 'Journey in the land, and see how Allah did originate creation; so will Allah produce a later creation: for Allah has power over all things.'" (29: 20) ( قُلْ سِيرُوا فِي الْأَرْضِ فَانظُرُوا كَيْفَ بَدَأَ الْخَلْقَ ثُمَّ اللَّهُ يُنشِئُ النَّشْأَةَ الْآخِرَةَ إِنَّ اللَّهَ عَلَى كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيرٌ) العنكبوت (20) Now, let us look together at some of these medical miracles revealed in the Quran : The sensation of skin pain It was commonly believed, for several centuries, that the body is all sensitive to pain.  It was not clear then that there were specialized nerves in the body responsible for transporting  all kinds of pain and other sensations, until recently when anatomy has discovered the role of specialized nerve endings in transporting all different kinds of pain. The most significant nerve sensations in the human body are: The sensation of touch: the corpuscles responsible for such sensation are called Meissners and Merkels corpuscles. The sensation of pain: this is transported by the nerve endings in the skin. The sensation of heat: this is the responsibility of Ruffini cylinders corpuscles. The nerve endings will be exposed if the dermis and epidermis layers are injured Taking skin burns as a distinct cause for the skin sensation of pain, burns can be divided into 3 types: Burns of first degree (sun burns): these affect the epidermis causing swelling and moderate pain.  The phenomena of redness, swelling and pain usually disappear within two to three days. (Figure 1). Burns of second degree: epidermis and dermis are injured.  In such a case, a detachment  occurs between epidermis and dermis, causing the collection of secretions between these two layers (Figure 2). The injured person suffers from severe pain, and excessive increase of pain sensation, due to irritation of exposed nerve ending particularly after the outburst of blisters.  The skin starts to heal within 14 days as a result of the process of renovation and inversion under the skin. Burns of third degree: the whole skin thickness is burned and perhaps the injury may reach the muscles or the bone.   The skin loses elasticity and becomes rough and dry.  In this case, the injured person do not feel much pain, as nerve endings have been damaged almost completely due to burning (Figure 3). Burns of first degree (sun burn of the face) Burns of second degree (blister on the leg , very painful if outburst) Burns of third degree (full thickness burn - not painful) The Quran states ;  "Those who reject our signs, We shall cast into the fire; as often as their skins are roasted through.  We shall change them for fresh skins, that they may taste the punishment; for Allah is Exalted in power; Wise." ( 4:56) (إنَّ الذٌينّ كّفّرٍوا بٌآيّاتٌنّا سّوًفّ نصليهم نّارْا كٍلَّمّا نّضٌجّتً جلودهم بدلناهم جلوداَ غيرها ليذوقوا العّذّابّ إنَّ اللَّهّ كّانّ عّزٌيزْا حّكٌيمْا)  (النساء56). Allah did not say "as often as their skins are burned", as burning could be partial, but He rather said: "as often as their skins are roasted through", i.e., totally burned with all nerves of sensation and pain.  So, He the Almighty associated between the sensation of pain and the skin when roasted and burned totally, thus losing its structure and function.  When sensation of pain is lost, a new fully composed and functional skin is replaced, where the nerve ending responsible for the painful sensation of heat and burn perform and function to make the unbeliever taste the punishment of being burned with fire over and over again. What about intestines ..? Anatomy has discovered that small intestines are the longest part in the digestive system, of about 5 meters long. The walls of intestines consist of 3 layers: The external stratum (serum stratum): its membrane is soft and wet due to the secretion of a serum liquid. The medium stratum (muscular stratum). The internal stratum (mucosa stratum): it consists of a mucosa plate and circular or ring folds full of villi, and contains intestinal glands and lymphatic vesicular. It has been found out that the abdominal cavity is lined with the peritoneum which is fed through the wall nerves feeding the skin, and the muscles of chest and abdomen. These nerves are affected by touch and heat.  The viscera have no nerves for pain or sensation.  Therefore, when the abdominal wall is anaesthetized locally, and the abdomen is open, no sensation of pain or disturbance is felt in the intestines if held, cut or even burned.  But when the intestines are cut or perforated for any reason, its contents come out into the cavity surrounding the viscera, and which is rich in sensitive nerves, the pain is then very severe and the abdomen of the patient is in a state called Board Like Rigidity.  It is an emergency surgical state that requires an immediate operation. Perforated intestine causes severe abdominal pain In Quran, Allah the Almighty says about the torment of hell fire; "such are given to drink boiling water, that tears their bowels asunder." (47: 15) (وسقوا ماءَ حميماَ فقطع أمعاءهم ( محمد : 15 The Holy Quran threatens the unbelievers of  hot water that tears their bowels. The reasoning underlying this threat has recently become evident.  It has been discovered that intestines are not affected with heat. But if they are cut, hot water therein comes out into the peritoneum which is fed through the wall nerves feeding the skin, and the muscles of chest and abdomen.  These nerves are affected with touch or heat, so the hot water, after intestines are cut, causes the highest degrees of pain. So the outer torment felt in the skin, is different from that felt in the inner intestines, due to the difference in the nature of skin structure.  The feeling of former torment cannot be maintained unless the roasted skin is exchanged with a new layer, while in the case of intestines, torment is felt only by cutting the intestines with hot water.  Torment is yet continuous: "As for the unbelievers, theirs shall be the fire of Gehannam (hellfire); they shall neither be done with and die, nor shall its chastisement be lightened for them,  even so We recompense every ungrateful one." (35:36) ( والذين كفروا لهم نار جهنم لا يُقضى عليهم فيموتوا ولا يُخففُ عنهم من عذابها كذلك نجزي  كل كفور) سورة فاطر- 36 Thus the Quranic scientific miracles are crystallized.  Feeling of pain as perceived in medical facts are very much compatible with the statements of the Holy Quran. Allah the Almighty says; "And pursue not that you have no knowledge of; surely the hearing, the sight, the heart- all of those shall be questioned of." (17:36), (ولا تقف ما ليس لك به علم إن السمع والبصر والفؤاد كل أولئك كان عنه مسؤولا) الإسراء 36 . and; "Not so did you cover yourselves, lest your hearing, your eyes and your skins should bear witness against you; but you thought that Allah would never know much of the things that you were working." (41: 22), ( وَمَا كُنتُمْ تَسْتَتِرُونَ أَنْ يَشْهَدَ عَلَيْكُمْ سَمْعُكُمْ وَلَا أَبْصَارُكُمْ وَلَا جُلُودُكُمْ وَلَكِن ظَنَنتُمْ أَنَّ اللَّهَ لَا يَعْلَمُ كَثِيراً مِّمَّا تَعْمَلُونَ ). (22- فصلت) and: "Say; 'Think you, if Allah took away your hearing and your sight, and sealed up you hearts, who – a god other than Allah – could restore them to you?'"  (6:46) (قل أرأيتم إن أخذ الله سمعكم وأبصاركم وختم على قلوبكم من إله غير الله يأتيكم به) الأنعام 46 Hearing comes before sight in the vas majority of verses in Quran ! in plural in Quran ? Why was sight mentioned What are the possible reasons behind advancing "hearing" over "sight" in Quran ? Hearing develops before sight in the embryo stage , and it is the first sense that functions in life.  The function of hearing starts immediately with the baby after deliver, in contrary to the eye which does not function the time the baby is brought to life.  In other words, Allah the Almighty conveys to us that it is hearing that functions at first.  If a disturbing sound is produced near the newly born baby, he/ she feels terrified and cries.  But if a hand is approached near the same baby, he/ she does not move or sense any sort of danger. Ear is preferred over and more superior than the eye, as it does not stop function by sleep.  Since the very beginning of life, the ear functions at the first instance after delivery, while some other organs may wait days, or years to function.  The eye needs light to see.  Rays of light are reflected on things, then enter the eye to see things.  If it is dark, the eye cannot function, but the ear can function day and night. Ear is the link between man and the world.  When Allah the Almighty decreed that the Men of the Cave sleep hundred of years, He said; "Then We smote their ears many years in the Cave." (18 : 11) فَضَرَبْنَا عَلَى آذَانِهِمْ فِي الْكَهْفِ سِنِينَ عَدَدا  [الكهف: 11] Hence when ear was out of function, men of the Cave were able to sleep hundred of years without any disturbance.  Noisy daylight movements, contrary to night quietness, prevent man to sleep deeply.  Yet the ears never sleep or lose attention. It is noticed that the word hearing advances the word sight in the whole of Quran, except in one verse, which tackles doomsday: "If only you could see when the guilty ones will bend low their heads before their Lord! 'Our Lord, we have seen and we have heard; now return us, that we may do righteousness, for we do have sure faith.'" (32: 12) ( ولو ترى إذ المجرمون ناكسوا رءوسهم عند ربهم ربنا أبصرنا وسمعنا فارجعنا نعمل صالحا إنا موقنون ) سورة السجدة  12 In this only verse, Allah forwards the word "see" over that of  "hear", as the horrible scenes of Doomsday (the day of judgment) when overwhelming people, will be seen first before heard of.  Allah knows best. Another interesting point : It is also noticed that the word ear is always referred to in the singular form while the word eyes in the plural form. Allah says: "Not so did you cover yourselves, lest your hearing, your eyes and your skins should bear witness against you; but you thought that Allah would never know much of the things that you were working." (41: 22), ( وَمَا كُنتُمْ تَسْتَتِرُونَ أَنْ يَشْهَدَ عَلَيْكُمْ سَمْعُكُمْ وَلَا أَبْصَارُكُمْ وَلَا جُلُودُكُمْ وَلَكِن ظَنَنتُمْ أَنَّ اللَّهَ لَا يَعْلَمُ كَثِيراً مِّمَّا تَعْمَلُونَ ) (22- فصلت) and: "Say; 'Think you, if Allah took away your hearing and your eyes, and sealed up your hearts, who – a god other than Allah – could restore them to you?'"  (6:46) (قل أرأيتم إن أخذ الله سمعكم وأبصاركم وختم على قلوبكم من إله غير الله يأتيكم به) الأنعام 46 . Why is it, in the Holy Quran, that the word "ear" is always singular, while the word "eyes" is plural? Why could it not be "ears and eyes", or "ear and eye"?   Allah the Almighty, in such an accurate expression, seeks to reveal to us  the precision of the Holy Quran.  The sense of sight can be willingly controlled by man, as he is opt whether to see or not.  Man can close his eyes for the things he does not like to see, but he cannot do the same with his sense of hearing, as he has no control over ear whether to hear or not.   In other words, when someone is in a room where ten people are talking, their voices will reach his ear whether he is willing or not.   The sense of sight vary among people; someone sees something while another sees something else due to a different variation of sight, while someone else closes his eyes and sees nothing. For hearing, we all share the same sound,  if we are assembled in one place.  Hence eyes vary but ears stand single. What is the reason behind advancing hearing over sight in the Holy Quran ? Are there really things around us that we cannot see? A quick look to the nature of light, being the tool of vision and sight, can help bring home the idea. There is a difference between visible light and light in general. Light scale in general starts with less than 0.1 of the nanometer, as in the case of rays of short wave and high power (Gamma rays), up to more than 1 km, as in the case of long waves and low power (Radio waves). Visible light is the light waves that man's eyes can receive and through which he can see things. This has no significant rate in the wave length scale of light or in electromagnetic waves, where normal light waves with its seven known colours reach a rate of 400 and 800 nanometers (nanometer is  one thousand-millionth of a meter) on the scale grade. Man with the help of visible light can see all around, as he can see microorganisms through microscopes and far celestial bodies through telescopes. Man was not able before the discovery of these two instruments to see more than his open eye could see.  Man can presumably see all that which can be seen by visible light, regardless of being minute or huge. This gives the room for the question: what about other unseen worlds? What is the volume of these visible things in the direct light waves in comparison with the things that cannot be seen or perceived by the human eye? Visible and invisible light waves (please note that visible light wave is between 400 and 800 nanometers ) Here are the different types of famous rays and their existence on the wave length scale, arranged in an ascending order as per the length of waves and in an descending order as per the power range: Gamma Ray.  Its length is less than 0.1 of the nanometer, and is considered of the highest power. X-ray.  Its wave length reaches up to 1 nanometer and is high in power and can penetrate lots of substances. It is commonly used in the medical field. Ultraviolet ray. Its wave length reaches up to 100 nanometers and is originated from stars explosion, and the sun as well bursts huge amounts of such a ray. Visible light.  The length of different waves ranges between 400 – 800 nanometers. Infra-red ray.  It length is 0.1 of the nanometer and is usually originated from hot substances and every living being.  This ray is used by armies to locate targets of machineries and soldiers that emit heat.  Lots of snakes use it to determine their quarries precisely. Short waves or microwaves.  These are used in telecommunications (specially in mobile phones), and commonly used heaters. They are used as well in guiding planes, and in determining the speed of traffic on roads. Radio waves. They range between one meter to 1 km in length and are originated from stars as other rays, as well as the lightening processes in clouds, and can be received by radio sets.  They are used in wireless telecommunications in general. Different invisible light waves (Gamma ray , X-Ray, Ultraviolet ray, Infra red ray, microwaves & Radio waves) The Quranic miracle is thus crystallized, as Allah verily says; "I swear by that you see and by that you do not see." (69:38-39) ( فلا أقسم بما تبصرون ومالاتبصرون ) الحاقة (38-39). The origin of creation : clay & water ! In the Quran, Allah reveals that the creation of man is a miracle. The first human being was created by Allah shaping clay into a human form and then breathing a soul into it, Allah (SWT) says in Quran :   ( Your Lord said to the angels, "I am going to create a human being out of clay. When I have formed him and breathed My Spirit into him, fall down in prostration to him!")  (Quran  38:71-72) ( إذ قال ربك للملائكة إني خالق بشرا من طينٍ ، فإذا سويته ونفخت فيه من روحي فقعوا له ساجدين ) سورة (ص) 71-72 and also says :  " Then inquire of them: Is it they who are stronger in structure or other things We have created? We created them from sticky clay " (Quran 37:11) ( فاستفتهم أهم أشد خلقاً أم من خلقنا إنا خلقناهم من طين لازب) الصافات 11 When the human body is examined today, many elements present on the earth are also discovered to be found in the human body. Living tissues contain 95% carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur, with a total of 26 different elements.91 In another verse of the Quran we are told: "We created man from an extract of clay"  (Quran 23:12) (ولقد خلقنا الإنسان من سلالة من طين ) المؤمنون 12 The Arabic word "sulala," translated as "extract" in the verse, means "representative example, essence." As we have seen, the information revealed in the Quran 1,400 years ago confirms what modern science tells us-the fact that the same elements as those found in the soil  are employed in the human creation . Below is a diagram showing the distribution of the elements in a 70-kilo human being. Element Symbol % Weight Macro-minerals Gram Oxygen Carbon Hydrogen Nitrogen Calcium Phosphorus Potassium Sulfur Chlorine Sodium Magnesium Silicon O C H N Ca P K S Cl Na Mg Si 65.0 18.5 9.5 3.3 1.5 1.0 0.35 0.25 0.15 0.15 0.05 0.05 43,000 12,000 6,300 2,000 1,100 750 225 150 100 90 35 30 Macro-minerals % Miligram Iron Zinc Copper Boron Cobalt Vanadium Iodine Selenium Manganese Molybdenum Chromium Fe Zn Cu B Co V I Se Mn Mo Cr 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 4,200 2,400 90 68 20 20 15 15 13 8 6 As we notice above water forms the main component of the human being and any other being . Allah (SWT) says  : " Allah created every [living] creature from water. Some of them go on their bellies, some of them on two legs, and some on four. Allah creates whatever He wills. Allah has power over all things"  (Quran, 24:45) ( والله خلق كل دابة من ماء فمنهم من يمشي على بطنه ومنهم من يمشي على رجلين ومنهم من يمشي على أربع  يخلق الله ما يشاء إن الله على كل شيء قدير) النور 45 " and  We made from water every living thing? So will they not believe?"  (Quran, 21:30) (وجعلنا من الماء كل شيء حي أفلا يؤمنون َ) الأنبياء 30 "And it is He Who created human beings from water and then gave them relations by blood and marriage. Your Lord is All-Powerful"  (25:54) (وهو الذي خلق من الماء بشراً فجعله نسباً  وصهراً وكان ربك قديراً ) الفرقان 54 When we look at the verses concerned with the creation of human beings and living things, we clearly see evidence of a miracle. One such miracle is of the creation of living things from water. It was only possible for people to come across that information, clearly expressed in those verses, hundreds of years afterwards with the invention of the microscope. All life forms need water in order to survive. Animals in dry regions, therefore, have been created with mechanisms to protect their metabolisms from water loss and to ensure maximum benefit from water use. If water loss takes place in the body for any reason, and if that loss is not replaced, death will result in a few days. The famous 17th century scientist Jan Baptista van Helmont discovered in 1640s that water in the soil was the most important element of plant development. Embryology and Human Creation between Quran & Science We discussed the embryology and human creation in details in a separate article . Please press here to read more about the miracle of human development  in Quran . Human development is one of the main medical miracles of Quran Finger Prints Scientific facts: Finger prints are formed in the embryo at the fourth month, and remain fixed and distinct all along man's life. Finger prints are a record of curvatures that arise due to the fusion between the epidermis with the dermis. These curvatures differ from one person to another, and they never match or correspond among all humans. Finger prints have become the best method to identify persons.  In 1858, the English Scientist, William Herschel, pointed out that finger  prints differ with the difference of their holders, thus rendering them as distinctive feature evidence for each person. Finger prints are considered as as distinctive feature evidence for each person llah says in the Holy Quran :  "I do swear by the Day of Resurrection.  I do swear by the reproachful soul.  Does man reckon We shall not gather his bones?  Yes indeed; We are able to shape again the tips of his fingers." (75: 1-4) {لا أُقْسِمُ بِيَوْمِ الْقِيَامَةِ * وَلا أُقْسِمُ بِالنَّفْسِ اللَّوَّامَةِ * أَيَحْسَبُ الإِنسَانُ أَلَّنْ نَجْمَعَ عِظَامَهُ * بَلَى قَادِرِينَ عَلَى أَنْ نُسَوِّيَ بَنَانَهُ}  القيامة 1-4 Physicians conducted wide anatomical studies on a large number of people of different nationalities and ages, and they were confronted with the scientific fact to which they bowed their heads, and in submission they testified that no one is ever able to make similar all finger prints scattering all over the universe not even among two persons. Here it is noticed that the verse speaks also of the recreation of all finger tips, and not only one.  The word fingertips refer to all hand fingers. So shaping them again after being scattered all over the universe on Resurrection Day is a sign of Allah's almighty power.  This is but one side of Allah's ability to resurrect people on Doomsday with their identifiable parts after annihilation. Therefore, it is not surprising that fingertips are one of Allah's signs that contain the secret of His creation, and certify to the entity of the person without any confusion, thus becoming the most genuine testimony in this world and the Hereafter.  The finger print is also a demonstration of Allah's greatness of shaping such lines on a very small space no more than few square centimeters. Is it not a wonderful scientific miracle in which the power of Allah the Almighty is evident ?  Praise be to Allah the Almighty Who says;   "Soon will We show them our signs in the furthest horizons, and in their own souls, until it becomes manifest to them that this is the Truth" (41: 53) { سَنُرِيهِمْ آيَاتِنَا فِي الآفَاقِ وَفِي أَنْفُسِهِمْ حَتَّى يَتَبَيَّنَ لَهُمْ أَنَّهُ الْحَقُّ أَوَلَمْ يَكْفِ بِرَبِّكَ أَنَّهُ عَلَى كُلِّ شَيْءٍ شَهِيدٌ } [فصلت: 53]. Forelock    ! Allah the Almighty speaks of Abu Jahl (an inveterate enemy of Islam, who used to insult prophet Mohammad (PBUH) and his followers) : "No Indeed; surely, if he gives not over, We shall seize him by the forelock, a lying, sinful forelock!" (96 : 15-16) ( كلا لئن لم ينته لنسفعًا بالناصية * ناصية كاذبة خاطئة) ( العلق :16 - 15) Linguistic explanation: Forelock means lock of hair at forehead.  in explanation of Allah's verse: 'We shall seize him by the forelock', Al Faraa said; 'it is the forehead that He (Allah) shall seize Abu Jahl  to drag him i.e., a sign of humiliation and disgrace.' Commentators' explanation: Al Alousi said; "The forelock as described in the verse, indicates in the first place that this person is lying and sinful, and due to Abu Jahl's obstinate lying and sins, every part of him is lying and sinning ."  Al Alousi also said; "The forelock is specifically mentioned here because the cursed Abu Jahl used to take good care of it by combing and perfuming, and because seizing the forelock is the utmost humiliation for any Arab…" Some Quran commentators say: "The aim is not a lying forelock.  But it is used metaphorically, not in the strict sense of the term, i.e., it is the forelock of a liar and sinful.  Since the forelock is the forehead, the description of lying refers to the possessor, as it could not be a place or source of lying. In his "Musnad", Ahmed referred to the Prophet's Hadith which points out to the forelock.  It was narrated that the Prophet (PBUH) said; "O, my Lord I am Your slave and the son of Your slave and the son of Your bondmaid, my forelock is at Your Hands, … "  . This Hadith reveals that man's fate is at Allah's Hands, as well as man's forelock, thus indicating, as the Verse above, that the forelock plays an important role in guiding and controlling man's behaviour. So, what is the reason underlying the use of forelock? What is the hidden organ behind the forehead – that part which is responsible for the person's character and which controls man's behaviour and actions of truthfulness and lying, right and wrong, and which if subjugated, man's behaviour can be controlled, as indicated in the book of  "Gray's anatomy  " edited by Warwick & Williams. Scientific facts: Man's brain contains the following main lobes: Frontal lobe. Occipital lobe. Temporal lobe. Parietal lobe. The brain with its different lobes For each lobe, there is a functional role, which is at he same time complementary to the other body functions.   Having dissected the forehead, the frontal lobe was found to be the part lying behind.  The frontal lobe is characterized, apart from the animal counterpart, with the regions responsible for behaviour and speech being developed and distinct as per the anatomic and functional levels. The Frontal lobe is a big lobe situated in front of the central groove, and contains five neurological centres that vary in location and position. These centres are: Primary Motor Area that helps move the voluntary muscles of the left side of the body. Secondary Motor Area that helps move the voluntary muscles of the right side of the body. Frontal Eye Field that helps move eyes to the opposite sides compatibly. Motor Speech Area of Broca that coordinates movements among organs of speech, such as larynx, tongue and face. Pre-Frontal Cortex, which lies directly behind the forehead, represents the bigger part of the frontal lobe, and its function is responsible for forming the person's character and also has an effect in determining the ability of taking initiative and judgment. Since the Prefrontal cortex lies directly behind the forehead and deep under the forelock, it directs some of man's behaviour such as characteristics of truthfulness and lying, right and wrong, and distinguishes among each of these characteristics. Electronic Studies of brain and electric studies of organ functions revealed that patients and animals subjected to damage of frontal lobes, often suffer a diminution of mental abilities. Any deficiency affecting the frontal lobe can change the natural behaviour of man that may reach to the extent of doing evil actions, and deterioration of the moral principles, the memory, and the ability to solve mental issues. Frontal lobes of brain are considered the centre of the initiative of lying. All mental activities of lying are conducted therein and then transferred to messengers organs through the action of lying. The evil actions are also planned for in this lobe before being transferred to action organs.  The lobe is also responsible for wrong actions being a centre of direction and control, as indicated in Encyclopaedia Britannica. The miracle side: The miracle side in the above Quranic verse and the Honourable Hadith of the Prophet is that they refer very accurately to the frontal lobe, lying deep at man's forelock, as being the centre of decision to control man's actions of truthfulness, lying, right, wrong, balance or perversion.   This has been revealed by modern scientific studies in the second half of the 20th century. Another fact: The brain is surrounded with three membranes, among which is the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), which has the function of protection, feeding and cooling. The brain swims in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and it is surrounded with 3 membranes We prostrate on the frontal lobe which has the centre of decision making. When prostrating and worshipping Allah, the Moslem's forelock is certified as truthful and right. It has been found that the brain inside the skull weighs 50 gm, although the real weight is 1700 gm. The physical principle states that the volume of the object immersed in fluid is equal to the volume of displaced fluid. Therefore, it is of the Almighty Creator's decree that we do not feel the brain weight, as it floats in the CSF, which originates from a special area in the brain called "the corogy plexus", and rotates inside and comes out of another area such as the domestic water net. This cycle occurs five times a day. As Moslems do before prayer times, the brain get ablution 5 times a day ... ! Man in high altitudes Almost 100 years ago, medical researches started address the functions of the human body when rising up in high altitudes, and the effect of being at high atmosphere.  Aero- and space medicine gives so much details of this issue, in which the dyspnea is explained in two main causes: Less oxygen rates in high altitudes. Decrease of air pressure. The more we rise up from the surface of the earth, the more the air pressure decreases, thus leading to decrease of the rate of air passage through alveoli pulmonis to blood.  Decrease of air pressure also leads to distention of gases in stomach and intestines that push the diaphragm upwards, thus pressing over and obstructing the extension of lungs. Stages of the symptoms of oxygen shortage phenomena: These are divided into four stages that relate to air pressure and the level of altitude and the rate of oxygen concentration in blood. The stage of non alteration, i.e., from the level of sea to an altitude of 3 km.  In this stage, the symptoms of oxygen shortage are not present and sight is not affected at day time. The stage of physiological adjustment, i.e., from an altitude of 3 km to 5 km. Body systems function in this stage in such a way that will not let the symptoms of oxygen shortage appear, unless the period of exposing to such a shortage is elongated, or the person exerts physical effort in such conditions. In that case, rates of respiration, pulse, blood pressure and circulation increase in number and depth. The stage of physiological disturbance, i.e., from an altitude of 5 km to 8 km.  In this stage, body systems, particularly the lungs, cannot afford to function properly or supply the quantity of oxygen needed by tissue sufficiently.  Hence the symptoms of oxygen shortage appear. In this stage, a clear explanation is established for man's feeling of exhaustion, headache, feeling like to sleep, dyspnea and chest tightness when rising up in high altitudes. As a result of air pressure decrease, all air comes out of lungs and alveoli pulmonis, reducing the size of lungs and chest (i.e., the chest becomes really tight). The stage of chest tightness, i.e., from an altitude of 8 km upwards. In this stage, man loses consciousness totally due to the failure of the nervous system, and condition becomes critical. The higher the man climbs up in sky the less is the oxygen The Quran which was revealed fourteen centuries ago to Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) states: "Whomsoever Allah desires to guide, He expands his chest to Islam; whomsoever He desires to lead astray, He makes his chest narrow, tight, as if he were climbing up to the sky." (6:125) {فّمّن يٍرٌدٌ اللَّهٍ أّن يّهًدٌيّهٍ يّشًرّحً صّدًرّهٍ لٌلإسًلامٌ ومّن يٍرٌدً أّن يٍضٌلَّهٍ يّجًعّلً صّدًرّهٍ ضّيٌَقْا حّرّجْا كّأّّنَّمّا يّصَّعَّدٍ فٌي السَّمّاءٌ} (الأنعام:125) Thus, this verse displays a miraculous similitude when presenting a scientific fact in a very eloquent and accurate style. Points of the miracles of this verse are: When people first heard of the verse of man's climbing to sky (space) , they considered it as a sort of imagination, and that Quran regards the ascension to space  in a metaphorical manner.  Actually the verse is a prophecy that came true centuries after it was first revealed. The similitude is very accurate, as climbing to high distances in the air causes chest tightness and the feeling of suffocation.  The more the ascension increases, the more tightness reaches so critical and difficult stage that respiration is not possible any more. That's why oxygen cylinders are taken when ascending up the sky, as in space ships ! Medical References at the shadows of Surat Al Kahf The Quranic chapter 18 : "The Cave"  (Al Kahf) was revealed to answer few questions which the mushriks (unbelievers) of Makkah, had put to the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) in order to test him.. One of the questions was : Who were "the Sleepers of  the Cave" ?  The disbelievers of Makkah were told that the story of the Sleepers of the Cave was a clear proof of the creed of the Hereafter, as it shows that Allah has the power to resurrect anyone He wills even after a long sleep of death as He did with the Sleepers of the Cave (they slept over 300 years) . Allah the Almighty says in this chapter  : "Then We smote their ears in the Cave many years." (18 : 11) (فَضَرَبْنَا عَلَى آذَانِهِمْ فِي الْكَهْفِ سِنِينَ عَدَدًا) – الآية 11 من سورة الكهف The sense of hearing is a physiological one that does not stop functioning at the time of sleep (the sleeper can wake up at a nearby sound). As the 8th cranial nerve (which passes in the inner part of the ear) has two divisions: one for hearing and the other for equilibrium (position and movement of the head). In the case of Cave Sleepers the physiological  function of both hearing and equilibrium did stop, therefore, the Quranic verse uses the expression "Smote their ears.." rather than their hearing. The other bodily functions were veiled, and the eye did not see though open  : "You would have thought them awake, as they lay sleeping" (18: 18). (وتحسبهم أيقاظا وهم رقود ) آية 18 And their muscles did not move, although they were alive: "While We turned them now to the right, now to the left" (18:18) (ونقلبهم ذات اليمين وذات الشمال) آية 18 Their shape did not change although many years elapsed as they did not notice real changes on their faces when they woke up:  "They said: 'We have tarried a day, or part of a day " (18:19) (قَالُوا  لَبِثْنَا يَوْماً أَوْ بَعْضَ يَوْمٍ ) آية 19 Their conditions as such are like that of preserving organs through cooling to cause metabolic inhibition, which is used extensively in the medical field to preserve donated organs (heart, kidneys, cornea, etc) before transplantation into another body. Therefore, the sun inclines towards the right when rising up and towards the left when setting down, so that it will not strike them, while they are in a gap in the cave: "And you would have seen the sun, when it rose, inclining from their Cave towards the right, and when it set, passing them by on the left, While they are in a gap therein, Such are among the Signs of Allah" (18:17), (وَتَرَى الشَّمْسَ إِذَا طَلَعَتْ تَزَاوَرُ عَنْ كَهْفِهِمْ ذَاتَ الْيَمِينِ وَإِذَا غَرَبَتْ تَقْرِضُهُمْ ذَاتَ الشِّمَال وَهُمْ فِي فَجْوَةٍ مِنْهُ ذلك من آ يات الله) 17 So, coolness in this gap in the Cave away from the heat of the sun that did not touch them, was sufficient to inhibit bodily metabolism for the preservation of their bodies all this long period.  Had they been only asleep, they would have needed water and food to survive, and would have been awaken by the need to urinate after some hours.  But Allah inhibited all their biological functions and preserved their bodies in a living shape. So, He said; "You would have thought them awake, as they lay sleeping".(18: 18), (وَتَحْسَبُهُمْ أَيْقَاظاً وَهُمْ رُقُودٌ) آية 18 and did not say; "You would have thought them dead, as they lay sleeping", as the sign of awakening is 'eye wink'.  Allah preserved their eyes from blindness through blinking, as the eye if kept closed for a long period of time will be blind, because the optic nerve will shrink and die, and if it is kept open, the cornea will be affected with corneo-xerosis, and blindness. Therefore, this rare status of theirs would have aroused terror, if seen, as they were not alive or dead.  They were asleep, yet their eyes were blinking: "Had you observed them surely you would have turned your back on them in flight, and been filled with terror of them." (18:18) (لَوِ اطَّلَعْتَ عَلَيْهِمْ لَوَلَّيْتَ مِنْهُمْ فِرَاراً وَلَمُلِئْتَ مِنْهُمْ رُعْباً) آية 18 As Allah preserved their eyes through blinking, He also preserved their bodies from ulcers through constant turning: "While We turned them now to the right, now to the left" (18:18), (وَنُقَلِّبُهُمْ ذَاتَ الْيَمِينِ وَذَاتَ الشِّمَالِ) آية 18 so that they would not be affected with pressure sores. Pressure or bed sore in the lower back due to lack of movements in a paralyzed patient An international patent for Quranic eye drop! Inspired by the shirt of Yousof  (Joseph), an Egyptian Moslem scientist, unprecedently, managed to manufacture an eye drop to treat the cataract. How? Allah the Almighty describes Jacob: "And he turned away from them, and said, 'Ah, how great is my grief for Joseph.'  And his eyes turned white because of the sorrow that he chocked within him." (12: 84) ( وتولى عنهم وقال يا أسفي على يوسف وابيضت عيناه من الحزن فهو كظيم ( يوسف (84) Whiteness, which is termed as cataract, affecting the eye is the opacity of the eye lens that prevents, partially or totally, the entry of light into the eye according to the degree of opacity. Causes of Cataract: A direct trauma to the eye lens. High temperature. Different types of radiation or flaring light, causing what is termed "radiation cataract". Opacity due to senile cataract, and diabetes mellitus that increases the concentration of fluids around the lens and absorbs its fluid, causing the presence of cataract rapidly. Severe grief causes the increase of adrenalin hormone which in turn causes increase of blood sugar, which is one of the opacity causes in addition to coincidence of grieving with weeping. What Prophet Yousof (PBUH) did, through a revelation from Allah, was that he asked his brothers to take the shirt of healing to their father: "Go, take this shirt, and do you cast it on my father's face , and he shall recover his sight; then bring me your family altogether." (12: 93) (إذهبوا بقميصي هذا قألقوه على وجه أبي يأت بصيرا وأتوني بأهلكم أجمعين) يوسف 93 "So, when the caravan set forth, their father ( Jacob ) said, 'surely I perceive Yousof's scent, unless you think me doting'. They said; 'By Allah, you are certainly in your ancient error.' But when the bearer of good tidings came  to him, and laid it (Yousof's shirt) on his face, forthwith he saw once again.  He said; 'Did I not tell you I know from Allah that you know not?' (12: 94-96) (ولما فصلت العير قال أبوهم إني لأجد ريح يوسف لولا أن تفندون * قالوا تالله إنك لفي ضلالك القديم * فلما أن جاء البشير ألقاه على وجهه فارتد بصيرا قال ألم أقل لكم إني أعلم من الله ما لا تعلمون) يوسف 96:94 Hence is the beginning and the guidance! What healing could be there in the shirt of the Prophet, Yousof ? After meditation, the Egyptian Moslem scientist, Dr. Abdul Basit Sayed Mohammed, did not find except sweat. He began to search the components of sweat. He immersed lenses extracted from traditional surgeries of cataract in the sweat.  He found out that a state of gradual transparency is established in these opaque lenses. The second question was: are all sweat components effective in such a case or is it only one of its components?  He later realized that one of its main components was the urea (Goandin), and which could be chemically prepared. Results of investigations on 250 volunteers revealed removal of cataract and restoration of sight for more than 90%. So, inspired by the Surat of Yousof, the Moslem scientist  Dr. Abdul Basit Sayed Mohammed of the National Centre of Researches in Egypt was able to manufacture an eye drop to treat the cataract, and obtained two international patents: The European International Patent in 1991, and the American Patent in 1993. Allah the Almighty said; "And We send down, of the Quran, that which is a healing and a mercy to the believers." (Israa/82) ( وننزل من القرآن ما هو شفاء ورحمة للمؤمنين)  الإسراء 8 Breast feed your baby even if with your eye-drops … ! There are many benefits of breastfeeding , some of them will be discussed here : For the mother: Protects against post-partum uteritis. Helps stop bleeding resulting from delivery, thus preventing loss of extra blood. Helps uterine restore normal size and place quickly after delivery. Prevents the recurrence of pregnancy with a rate of more than 98%, without contraceptives. Protects the lactating mother against breast and uterine cancer. For the baby: Breast feeding protects the baby from viral infections, as it contains immunity agents. It protects against food allergy, as it is free of protein that causes such kind of allergy, and which is usually found in extracted and manufactured cows milk. It prevents shortage of calcium in the baby's blood, thus helping to construct strong bones. It returns with spiritual and psychological benefits to the baby, as it helps build a well composed, righteous and straight personality, and strengthens the spiritual and passionate links between the baby and the mother. As revealed in a research published in Pediatric Clinics of North America in February 2001, the mental abilities of babies who receive breast feeding from their mothers are stronger and higher than otherwise, and the longer the period of breast feeding, the higher the mental abilities are. It was shown that mother's milk also provides protection against cancer. After showing that the incidence of the lymph cancer observed in childhood was nine times greater in formula-fed children, they realised that the same results applied to other forms of cancer. According to the results, mother's milk accurately locates the cancer cells and later destroys them. It is a substance called alpha-lac (alphalactalbumin), present in large quantities in mother's milk, that locates and kills the cancer cells. Alpha-lac is produced by a protein that assists in the manufacture of the sugar lactose in the milk. In addition to some practical benefits of breast feeding.  The milk is always ready with steady and appropriate heat, fresh, sterilized, digestible and saves money and time ! Researchers indicated that breast feeding alleviates the baby's fear of needle pricks and helps as analgesic during painful operations such as circumcision. A new theory emerged in the recent years indicating that the protein in cows milk can cause a biological reaction that destroys the pancreatic beta cells excreting insulin.  This theory is supported with the high rate of the presence of cow milk proteins in the serum of children with diabetes in comparison with study group of non-diabetic children. But why is it that cows milk causes this harm before the second year, and then disappears after this period? In a study conducted in Finland in 1994 and published in Auto-immunity Journal, the authors state that the protein of cow milk passes in natural form through the lining membrane of digestive system which is not yet fully grown.  As the enzymes of the digestive system cannot break the protein into amino acids, the protein of cow milk enters as a complex protein and works as a catalyst to produce immunity agents in the body of the child. New references reveal that enzymes and the lining membrane of the digestive system and kinetics of digestion and absorption do not attain complete function except in the second year after delivery. Many studies stress on breast feeding in the first two years In a very accurate scientific reference, the Quran determines the period of lactation with almost two years.  In verse 14 of Surat Luqman: "And We enjoined on man concerning his parents- his mother bore him in weakness upon weakness, and his weaning was in two years." (31:14) الآية رقم (14) في سورة [لقمان]: (ووصينا الإنسان بوالديه حملته أمه وهنـًا على وهن وفصاله في عامين) It is understood that lactation for two years is not a must, but a complete period; "Mothers shall breastfeed their children for two whole years, for such as desire to complete the term " ( 2:233) ( وَالْوَالِدَاتُ يُرْضِعْنَ أَوْلاَدَهُنَّ حَوْلَيْنِ كَامِلَيْنِ لِمَنْ أَرَادَ أَن يُتِمَّ الرَّضَاعَةَ  ) – البقرة 233. Miracle of Honey Allah the Almighty says; "Your Lord revealed to the bees: "Build dwellings in the mountains and the trees, and also in the structures which men erect. Then eat from every kind of fruit and travel the paths of your Lord, which have been made easy for you to follow." From inside them comes a drink of varying colours, containing healing for mankind. There is certainly a Sign in that for people who reflect"  (16: 68) (وأوحى ربك إلى النحل أن اتخذي من الجبال بيوتاً ومن الشجر، ومما يعرشون، ثم كلي من كل الثمرات فاسلكي سبل ربك ذللا ، يخرج من بطونها شراب مختلف ألوانه فيه شفاء للناس، إن في ذلك لآية لقوم يتفكرون) النحل 68 Although honey is one of the most important products of the bee, yet it is not the only product. Honey wax, propolis, nectar, bee toxicant are cases in point of other products that proved by experimental science to be of medical benefits. Honey has more than 80 materials of sugar vitamins and 15 materials of sugars, particularly fructose, glucose, minerals, amino acids and about 5% of unclassified materials. "containing healing for mankind" is an explicit verse indicating that honey is a treatment as well as a nutrient. Benefits of honey: Alleviating inflammation of cornea if used locally on the eye. An antibiotic if used locally in situ of wounds and burns, and it is used for healing of wounds : When used in treatment of wounds, thanks to its ability to absorb moisture from the air, honey facilitates healing process and prevents scarring. This is because honey stimulates the growth of epithelial cells that form the new skin cover over a healed wound. In this way, even in case of large wounds, honey may eliminate the need for tissue transplantation. Honey stimulates the re-growth of tissue involved in the healing process. It stimulates the formation of new blood capillaries and the growth of fibroblasts that replace the connective tissue of the deeper layer of the skin and produce the collagen fibres that give strength to the repair. - Honey has an anti-inflammatory action, which reduces the swelling around a wound. This improves circulation and thus hastens the healing process. It also reduces pain Honey does not stick to the underlying wound tissues, so there is no tearing away of newly formed tissue, and no pain, when dressings are changed. -Thanks to its aforementioned antimicrobial property, honey provides a protective barrier to prevent wounds becoming infected. It also rapidly clears any existing infection from wounds. It is fully effective, even with antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria. Unlike antiseptics and antibiotics, there is no impairment of the healing process through adverse effects on wound tissues. Some studies showed that honey is a good treatment against the  hospital infection bacteria "superbugs" (MRSA) . As honey does not accommodate bacteria, this bactericide (bacteria-killing) property of honey is named "the inhibition effect." There are various reasons of this anti-microbial property of the honey. Some examples are: the high sugar content that limits the amount of water microorganisms need for growth, its high acidity (low pH) and composition which deprive bacteria from nitrogen necessary for reproduction. The existence of hydrogen peroxide as well as antioxidants in the honey prevent bacteria growth. Antioxidant: Everyone who wants to live a healthier life should consume antioxidants. Those are the components in cells that get rid of harmful byproducts of normal metabolic functions. These elements inhibit destructive chemical reactions that cause spoilage of food and many chronic illnesses. Researchers believe food products rich in antioxidants may prevent heart problems and cancer. Strong antioxidants are present in honey content: Pinocembrin, pinobaxin, chrisin and galagin. Pinocembrin is an antioxidant that merely exists in the honey. A treatment for gastric and duodenal ulcers, as honey decreases the secretion of hydrochloric acid to a normal rate, thus helping to heal such ulcers and alleviate the related pains and reduce resultant cases of vomiting and colic.  For the treatment to be effective, honey should be taken dissolved in warm water one or two hours before meals. A treatment for involuntary urination at beds.  Such a disease that could often be a result of psychic or neurotic cause. So, if the child is given one small spoon of honey before sleeping, this will have a positive effect, as honey is sedative for the nervous system, thus helping the cyst to relax and expand during sleep.  Concentrated sugar also helps to absorb water from the child body. It supports blood formation: Honey provides an important part of the energy needed by the body for blood formation. In addition, it helps in cleansing the blood. It has some positive effects in regulating and facilitating blood circulation. It also functions as a protection against capillary problems and arteriosclerosis. A treatment for colds, flu and pharyngitis. A treatment for cases of chronic hepatitis, as honey increases the liver stock of the glycogen material through the increase of blood glucose, thus helping the liver to function properly and relieve it from more burdens. A treatment for insomnia and a sedative for nerves, as it contains some sedative and tonic substances as sodium and potassium at a reasonable rate such. A treatment for alcoholic poisoning.   Honey is one of the main nutrients prescribed in hospitals and clinics of alcoholic addicts, as it protects the liver from alcoholic poisoning. Fructose and vitamin B group in the honey helps oxidize the alcohol remaining in the body. A treatment for cough. In cosmetics, a mixture of honey with lemon and glycerin is considered of the best old medical prescription for the treatment of skin cracking and roughness, the inflammation and wounds of lips, sun stroke, and dermal pigments.  Many ointments and creams contain honey as a main element for the treatment of skin diseases. A treatment for muscular spasm of sportive exercises or facial spasms and eyelids muscles, which disappear after having one big spoon of honey for three days after each meal. Many researches have been done to look at the benefits of natural honey .. ! It was narrated by Al Bukhari and Moslem on the authority of Abu Saeed Al Khudari that  A man came to the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) and said, "My brother has some abdominal trouble." The Prophet said to him "Let him drink honey." The man returned to the prophet and said: "O Messenger of Allah! I let him drink honey, but it caused him more pain."  The prophet said to him; "Go and let him drink honey".  The man went and let his brother drink honey, then returned back and said; "O Messenger of Allah, it did not cause him except more pains."  The Prophet then said, "Allah has said the truth, but your brother's abdomen has told a lie. Let him drink honey." So he made him drink honey and he was cured. It can easily be seen from this information that honey has great "healing" properties. This is undoubtedly one of the miracles of the Quran Allah, Who is Exalted in Power, has revealed. Another interesting point regarding the female honey bee , Allah (SWT) says in the holy Quran : (Your Lord revealed to the bees: "Build dwellings in the mountains and the trees, and also in the structures which men erect. Then eat from every kind of fruit and travel the paths of your Lord, which have been made easy for you to follow." From inside them comes a drink of varying colours, containing healing for mankind. There is certainly a Sign in that for people who reflect )  ( 16:68-69) (وأوحى ربك إلى النحل أن اتخذي من الجبال بيوتاً ومن الشجر، ومما يعرشون، ثم كلي من كل الثمرات فاسلكي سبل ربك ذللا ، يخرج من بطونها شراب مختلف ألوانه فيه شفاء للناس، إن في ذلك لآية لقوم يتفكرون) النحل 68 In the honey bee colonies where each of the many bees is assigned a specific task, the only exception is the male honey bee. The males do not contribute to th defence of the hive or its cleaning, gathering food, or making the honeycomb and honey. The only function of the male bees in the hive is to inseminate the queen bee. Apart from reproductive organs, the males possess almost none of the features possessed by other bees and it is therefore impossible for them to do anything but fertilise the queen. The worker bees carry the entire load of the colony. Although they are females like the queen, their ovaries have no maturity. This renders them sterile. They have several duties: cleaning the hive, maintaining the larvae and the young, feeding the queen bee and the males, producing honey, constructing the honeycomb and repairing it, ventilating the hive and safeguarding it, gathering supplies like nectar, pollen, water and resin, and storing these in the hive. In Arabic, there are two different usages of verbs. By means of the usage, it is possible to determine whether the subject is a female or a male. As a matter of fact, the translated verbs into English (underlined words) used for the honey bee are used in the feminine verb format in the Quranic verses. Based on this, the Quran indicates that the honey bees that work in the making of the honey are females. We should not forget that it is impossible for this fact to have been known about the honey bees in the time of the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH). Yet, Allah has pointed at this fact and shown us yet another miracle of the Quran. Carrion .. blood .. flesh of swine Allah says in His Honourable Book; " He has forbidden you dead meat, and blood, and the flesh of swine." (2: 173) إنما حرم عليكم الميتة والدم ولحم الخنزير (البقرة 173) He the Almighty also said:   "Forbidden to you are carrion, blood and flesh of swine, and that which has been hallowed to other than Allah, and that which has been killed by strangling, or by a violent blow, or by a headlong fall, or by being gored to death; and that which has been partly eaten by a wild animal-excepting that you have sacrificed duly…" (4:3) حرمت عليكم الميتة والدم ولحم الخنزير وما أهل لغير الله به والمنخنقة والموقوذة والمتردية والنطيحة وما أكل السبع إلا ما ذكيتم (المائدة 3) Prohibition of eating carrion: What is the reasoning of totally forbidding dead meat? It has been proved on a conclusive scientific basis that the body of a dead animal reserves  blood with all sediments and toxins, particularly which are in the arterial blood.  Blood could then prevail in the tissues and thus the toxins start to function in all body cells, thus the dead body changes colour to darker and the superficial veins are filled with blood, and blood circulation stops with no chance of leaking any amount of blood outside the body.  The dead body becomes a spoilt deposit for diseases and microbes.  The work of decay then starts in the body, affecting the meat in colour, taste and smell.  So meat of dead bodies is foul and un-good.   Allah says; "They will question thee what is permitted them.  Say; 'The good things are permitted you….'" (4:4) ( يسألونك ماذا أحل لهم ، قل أحل لكم الطيبات ((المائدة 4 ) Due to the decay enzymes, the dead meat loses all nutrient elements, and becomes valueless.  Allah says; "This Quran is not such as can be produced by other than Allah; but it is a confirmation of what is before it, and a fuller explanation of the Book wherein there is no doubt- from the Lord of all beings."  (Younos :37) (ومـا كـان هـذا القـرآن أن يفترى من دون الله ولكن تصـديق الذي بين يديه وتفصـيل الكتـاب لا ريب فيه من رب العالمين  ) يـونس (37) Dead cow Kinds of carrion Strangled: It has been scientifically proved that the animal if strangled, i.e., oxygen is not allowed to pass into its lungs, toxic carbon dioxide, as well as poisonous secretions accumulate in its body. Killed by a violent blow, i.e., a cattle beaten to death by a stick or a stone. Killed by a headlong fall, i.e., falling from a height. Killed by being gored to death, i.e., by another cattle. The remnants of a cattle partly eaten by a wild animal.  This is prohibited for a great divine reason.  Modern medical science has recently discovered that germs and microbes are transferred to the prey when grabbed by the wild animal's claws, thus causing diseases to transfer to whoever eats the prey's meat.  Wild animals in general are infected with a disease that lies in their mouths and saliva, which in turn are transferred to the body of the prey, causing great harm to eaters of such meat. Prohibition of blood: Blood in the living creature has two main functions : it transfers nutrients absorbed by the intestines such as proteins, sugars, and fats, as well as vitamins, hormones and oxygen and all other vital necessary substances to body organs and muscles. it carries harmful  body substances in the animal body for disposal through urine, sweat or stool.  If the animal is diseased, microbes are multiplied in its blood, using it as the media for moving from one part to another, and this is where hazards lie.  If man drinks blood, all these microbes and excretions will be carried to man, thus leading to so many diseases such hyper-uremia leading to renal failure, or hyper-ammoniaemia leading to hepatic coma. Many germs carried by blood causes irritation to the membranes of stomach and intestines, leading to lots of diseases. For all these reasons, Islam's legal method of slaughter dictates that the animal be cleared of blood after slaughtering, so that cattle's blood is not allowed by any means to enter the human body.  This has been revealed long before microscopes are invented by man, or information of such microbes and germs has reached man's knowledge. Prohibition of the flesh of swine (pork) : The Moslem is submissive to Allah's commands even if the underlying wisdom is not yet revealed. "All that the believers say, when they are called to Allah and His Messenger, that he my judge between them, is that they say; 'We hear and we obey'; those – they are the prosperers." (24: 51) (إنما كان قول المؤمنين إذا دعواإلى الله ورسوله ليحكم بينهم أن يقولوا سمعنا وأطعنا، وأولئك هم المفلحون (النور 51 Eating pork is prohibited in Islam Some recent western studies revealed that eaters of the flesh of swine (pork) carry the same characteristics of swine. The Quran adopts the preventive method, whether for medical or social diseases, and their causes.   This is much more better than the claims of the West and their inventions in the field of treatment which require lots of money, with no guarantee as to the positive results.  No matter how the west is trying to beautify the image of the swine, by providing the most up to date equipment of caring and cleanliness, this will not counteract the fixed reality discovered by their own scientists of the worms and diseases contained in the body of the swine as compared to other animals. Eating pork is harmful to health in a great many regards. This harm still persists today, despite all the precautions that are taken. First and foremost, no matter how clean the farms and environments on which it is raised may be, the pig is not by nature a clean-living animal. It often plays in, and even eats, its own excrement. Due to this and its biological structure, the pig produces much higher levels of antibodies in its body than other animals. In addition, far higher levels of growth hormone are produced in the pig compared to those in other animals and human beings. Naturally, these high levels of antibodies and growth hormone pass across to and collect in the pig's muscle tissue. Pork meat also contains high levels of cholesterol and lipids (the rate of cholesterol is almost 15 times more than its rate in cows) . It has been scientifically proven that these significant amounts of antibodies, hormones, cholesterol and lipids in pork represent a serious threat to human health. The existence of above-average numbers of obese individuals in the populations of countries such as the USA and Germany, in which large quantities of pork are consumed, is now well-known. When exposed to excessive quantities of growth hormone as a result of a pork-based diet, the human body first puts on excessive weight and then suffers physical deformations. Another harmful substance in pork is the "trichina" worm. This is frequently found in pork and when it enters the human body, it settles directly in the muscles of the heart and represents a possibly fatal threat. Even though it is now technically possible to identify pigs that are infected with trichina, no such methods were known in earlier centuries. That means that everyone who ate pork risked infection by trichina and possible death. Another disease is the  "Tapeworm"  which is transmitted from the pig to man's intestines.  It is a few meters long, and has about 22-32 hooks in the head, with which it clings to the intestine wall.  The larva leaks into the stream of blood and settles in one of the body organs such as the heart, the liver or the eye, where it vesiculates.  Settling in the brain, being its favourite place, the worm can cause epilepsy.  This is the difference between the hazards of the tapeworm that is transmitted from the swine to man, and that which is transmitted from another beast such as the cow for example.   The worm of the latter have no such grievous power to roam and travel with its larva in the human body to destroy it in a vicious violence. All these reasons are just a part of the wisdom in our Lord's prohibition on the consumption of pork. Moreover, this commandment of our Lord's provides complete protection from the harmful effects of pork under any conditions. Until the 20th century, it was impossible to be aware of the danger posed to human health by pork. The fact that the Quran, revealed fourteen centuries ago, warns against this harm which has been incontrovertibly revealed with modern medical equipment and biological tests, is one of the miracles demonstrating that the Quran is the revelation of Allah, the Omniscient. Despite all the precautionary measures and inspections that take place in modern-day pig rearing, the fact that pork is physiologically incompatible with the human body and is a variety of meat harmful to human health has not altered. "Surely this Quran guides to the way that is straightest…" (17 :9) (إن هذا القرآن يهدي للتي هي أقوم) الإسراء Fruit : is it before or after ? Doctors advise that, prior to eating, man should start with the soft and easily digestible food in order to prepare the oral glands secreting the peptic juice (saliva amylase) or the glands in stomach and duodenal to start functioning gradually in digesting food.  Minutes later, man can start eating the main dish. A slice of fruit or dates are cases in point of soft food. The Quranic statement mentions fruit in advance of meat, in a remarkable reference to the previous meaning when addressing the state of believers in paradise: "and such fruits as they shall choose, and such flesh of fowl (chicken) as they desire…" (56: 21) وَفَاكِهَةٍ مِّمَّا يَتَخَيَّرُونَ(20) وَلَحْمِ طَيْرٍ مِّمَّا يَشْتَهُونَ(21) – الواقعة . Ablution (Wodo'e) and health purity Allah says; "O believers, when you stand up to pray, wash your faces, and your hands up to the elbows, and wipe your heads, and your feet up to the ankles.  If you are defiled, purify yourselves…" (5:6) [ يا أيها الذين آمنوا إذا قمتم إلى الصلاة فاغسلوا وجوهكم وأيديكم إلى المرافق وامسحوا برؤوسكم وأرجلكم إلى الكعبين، وإن كنتم جنبا فاطهروا]    (المائدة 6). Ablution is the weapon of the faithful: Ablution is not just cleaning the external organs several times a day before prayers.  The psychological and spiritual impact felt by the Moslem after ablution is more deeper than words can express, particularly when perfecting ablution.  Ablution plays an important role in the life of the Moslem, as it keeps him always in a state of vitality, vigilance and fitness.  The Prophet (PBUH) said; "He who performs ablution, and perfects it, his sins would come out from his body, till they pass out from under his nails." The process of washing the organs usually exposed to dust is no doubt of a great significance to public health.  These body parts are exposed all day long to numerous numbers of microbes counted in millions in every cubic centimeters of air.  These microbes are in a constant offensive state against the human body at the exposed areas of skin.  In ablution, microbes are taken by a surprise sweep from the surface of the skin, specially with perfect massaging and enough pouring of water, as guided by the Prophet (PBUH).  Following such a process, no dirt or germs are left on the body except what Allah decrees. Rinsing the mouth.  Modern science has proved that rinsing the mouth protects the mouth and throat from inflammation and the gums from suppuration (pyorrhea).  It also protects and cleans teeth by removing food remnants. Sniffing the nose. Washing and sniffing the nose strongly helps keep the nostril clean and free of inflammation and germs, thus reflecting positively on the health status of the whole body. Washing the face and the two hands.  Washing the face and the two hands up to the elbows is of a great benefit in removing dust and microbes as well as sweat from the surface of the skin.  This also cleans the skin from the fatty substance secreted by skin glands, and which is usually a very suitable place for the proliferation and sustenance of germs. Washing the two feet.  Washing feet with massaging lead to a feeling of quietness and complacency that engulfs the Moslem after ablution. Other secrets.  Scientific research has proved that blood circulation in upper limbs from the hands to the forearms, and in  the lower limbs from the feet to the legs is weaker than it is in other organs, being peripheral to the centre of regulating blood circulation, namely, the heart.  So washing these limbs with massaging at every ablution help strengthen the blood circulation in these parts, thus increasing the vitality and activity of the body. Science has proved the effect of sun rays, particularly the ultra violet ones, in causing skin carcinoma.  This effect decreases very well with the consequence of ablution, as it constantly dampens the surface of the skin with water, particularly the parts exposed to such rays.  This helps protect the surface and internal layer cells of the skin from the harmful impact of rays. Prayer  :  a healing for the spirit and the body Allah says; "Seek help with patience and prayer: it is indeed hard, except to those who are humble." (2: 45) ( واستعينوا بالصبر والصلاة وإنها لكبيرة إلا على الخاشعين ) البقرة 45 Health benefits in prayers: Prayers help release the burden of the soul and expand the chest.  In prayers, which are the best deeds, the heart gets connected to Allah the Almighty.  The Prophet (PBUH) said, as narrated by Ibn Majah and Al Hakim on the authority of Thawban; "Be it known to you that your best deeds are prayers." Prayers are surely a healing for the soul.  It is confirmed that the Prophet, if afflicted with grief, would hurry to prayer: " prayer forbids indecency and dishonour.  Allah's remembrance is greater; and Allah knows the things you work." (29: 45) ( إن الصلاة تنهى عن الفحشاء والمنكر، ولذكر الله أكبر، والله يعلم ما تصنعون) (العنكبوت 45) Prayers help adjust the 'rhythm' of the body.  Modern scientific research proved that Moslems' prayer timings correspond with that of the  physiological activities of the body.  Thus, prayers are considered as the orchestrator that adjusts the 'rhythm' of the whole body. In his book 'Seeking cure from prayers', Dr. Zaheer Rabeh indicates that cortisone is the hormone of activity that starts to increase acutely in the human body with the approach of dawn time, and is associated with the rise in blood pressure.  Man feels greatly active after dawn prayer between 6-9 a.m.  Thus the time after prayer is considered the best time for hard work and seeking livelihood.  The Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) was quoted saying; "O Lord, give benediction to my umma (nation) at the early morning time."  Ozone, which has an invigorating effect on the nervous system, and muscular and mental activity, reaches the highest levels in air at such a time. Contrary to this is the forenoon time (Dhuha), in which secretion of cortisone reach the minimum limits; leading man to feel exhausted with the stress of work, and the need to have rest.  This is almost after 7 hours of early get-up.  Here comes the time of noon (Zuhr) prayer, which gives complacency and quietness to the exhausted heart and body, and following which man seeks to get an hour of sleep that gives him rest and reinvigorates his activity, in what is termed as Qailulah (nap) before (Asr) (afternoon) prayer.  Such a short sleep was mentioned in the Prophet's saying; "Get help with Suhoor (meal before dawn time) for fasting, and with Qailulah for Qiyam (night)  prayer." He also said; "Have Qailulah, as satans do not have it."  It has been proved that the human body at this period generally encounters a hard time, where an increase occurs in an anesthetic chemical substance secreted by the body that has the effect of tranquilizing, and incites man to sleep.  The body, after 7 hours of early wake-up, is at the lowest levels of concentration and activity.  So if man ignores sleeping at that time, much of his neuromuscular compatibility decreases all day long. Then comes the Asr (afternoon) Prayer to reinvigorate the body once again.  Adrenalin then raises in the blood; causing activity in the body functions particularly the cardiac one.   Asr prayer has thus a great effect in preparing the heart and the body to accept this sudden state of activity, which can cause serious troubles to cardiac patients due to the sudden transfer of the heart from the inert state to the active state. Allah says; "Be you watchful over the prayers, and the middle prayer, and do you stand obedient to Allah." (2: 238) ( حافظوا على الصلوات والصلاة الوسطى وقوموا لله قانتين ( البقرة 238 Most of the Quran Commentators agreed that the middle prayer is Asr prayer. With the discovery of the increase of Adrenalin hormone at this time, the reason behind this Quranic remarkable command of the keep-up of Asr prayer becomes crystal clear.  Performing Asr prayer at designated time, alongside with other extra prayers, reinvigorates the heart gradually to function more effectively after an inert state.   So the rest of bodily organs and senses are in deep concentration in prayer, making it easy for the heart and the hormone to adjust the normal rhythm of the body which reaches the climax at that time. Then comes the Maghreb (sunset) prayer.  In contrary  to what happens early in the morning, Cortisone decreases and the activity of the body starts to diminish.  With the transfer from daylight into night darkness, melatonin increases  encouraging relaxation and sleep, and causing laziness to the body.  Here prayer comes as a transitional station. Prayer of Isha (early night prayer) is the last station in the course of the day, wherein the body is transferred from the state of activity and mobility to a state of seeking sleep with the spread of darkness and the increase of melatonin secretion.  Therefore, it is commendable to delay Isha prayer to the time before sleep so that all man's preoccupations are finalized, and sleep comes next.  The regular secretion of melatonin is closely related to the sexual and mental maturity, which is the consequence of following a fixed programme and a way of life.  Therefore, we find that adherence to perform prayers on time is the best way that guarantees an integral compatibility with daily activities, thus leading to highly efficient functions of human body systems. Prayer is a prevention from varicose.  Legs varicose is a common dysfunction in the legs veins, which takes the shape of big and zigzag veins filled with blood of a changed colour all along the lower limbs.   Dr. "Tawfiq Elwan", a Professor in Alexandria Faculty of Medicine (Egypt), indicated that with the meticulous observation of prayer movements, it was found out that prayer is distinguished with a wonderful measure of smoothness, harmony and coordination, represented in standing, kneeling (Ruku'), prostration (Sujood)  and sitting between every two prostrations.  With a scientific study of the measure of pressure exerted on the walls of the saphenous vein at the ankle joint, it was found out that the great decrease in that pressure during kneeling reaches almost the half.   As for the state of Sujood, the average pressure becomes very slight.  Naturally, this decrease is a full rest to that vein, which is greatly exhausted due to the severity of pressure all along the periods of standing.  The position of Sujood helps the blood circulation work in the same direction of earth gravity, as blood which always suffers the bitter creep from the feet soles to the cardiac muscle, now pours smoothly and easily from top to bottom.  This process reduces much of the vein pressure over the feet dorsum around 80 times (from the state of standing to the state of Sujood).  Consequently, the risks of having varicose, which rarely affects those performing prayers regularly and properly, are diminished. Varicose veins in both legs Prayer for strengthening bones.  Bones pass with two consecutive stages : the stage of anabolism followed by the stage of catabolism and so on in a continuous manner. In the phase of youth and growth, man's anabolism increases, so bones become longer and stronger.  After the phase of maturity and with the advance of age, catabolism takes the lead, with the amount of bone decreasing and becoming more fragile, and the spine bows due to the vertebra's collapse, shortness and weakness.   The activity and the strength of bones are the outcome of : Powers of pressure and pulling exercised by the muscles and tendons, which sticks to bones, during flexion and extension. It has been recently proved that an electric current with two different poles runs inside the bones; affecting the distribution of cells functions such as anabolism and catabolism cells.  The current also determines at large the aspects of these cells activities.  The experiments proved that in case of laziness and rest, the electric current is diminished, leading the bones to lose the componential materials, thus they become thin and weak.  Experiment also revealed that during travel to space where gravity is totally absent, muscles become weak and bones become thin due to the inability to resist the burden of the earth gravity.  It is therefore deduced that complete rest causes the bones to shrink, as the absence of movements activates catabolism cells, and weakens anabolism cells, hence a reduction of the bony material occurs. The performance of 17 units (Rak'ah) of obligatory prayers, and some more of extra prayers, strengthens man's bones, and forces him to do a bodily movement not less than one hour daily.  This happens all along the life of the Moslem, who never abandons prayers. Prayer is a regular simple exercise at different times, and helps keep the viability of the body specially the cardiac system and blood circulation. Prayer is a psychological therapy that helps calm the soul and relieve all tension for many reasons, of which the most significant is: man feels that all his problems are very small in the face of the Greatness and Capability of the Creator Who handles this large universe.  The Moslem, after finishing his prayer, has thrown all he has of problems and worries, as he has deputized the Merciful Lord to manage and relieve him of such troubles.  Prayers help remove all sources of tension due to the constant change of movements.  It is known that such a change leads to an important physiological relaxation, therefore, the Prophet commanded that the Moslem when afflicted with a state pf anger, should resort to prayers.  It has been proved that prayer have an immediate effect on the nervous system, as they calm agitation and maintain balance.  They are as well a successful treatment for insomnia resulting from the nervous dysfunction. Medical benefits of fasting Ramadan Fasting Ramadan is an obedience to Allah the Almighty, Who said in His Honourable Book; "O believers, prescribed for you is the fast, even as it was prescribed for those that were before you- haply you will be Allah fearing." (2: 183) ( يا أيها الذين آمنوا كتب عليكم الصيام كما كتب على الذين من قبلكم لعلكم تتقون ) Fasting is a prescribed duty, and a private relation between man and his Lord, which Allah has guaranteed to reward for it.  It was narrated in the Qudsi Hadith that Allah says; "Every act of the son of Adam is for him, except fasting.  It is meant (exclusively) for Me and I give reward for it." In 1994, the first conference on health benefits of fasting Ramadan was held in Casablanca, Morocco.  Around 50 research papers from all over the world incorporating the health benefits of fasting Ramadan were discussed by Moslem and non-Moslem researchers. Of the health benefits of fasting Ramadan are : Giving rest to the digestive system.  Ramadan is the period of rest for the digestive system, which is responsible for the metabolism process of food.  Consequently, the liver also takes rest as it is the main factory of food metabolism.  To achieve this benefit, Moslems should adhere to the tradition (sunnah) of the Prophet by abstaining from having too much food after breakfast.  The Prophet (PBUH) said; "The son-of-Adam never fills a bowl worse than his belly. Some bites are enough for man to prop his physique.  Had he wished otherwise, then one third for his food, and one third for his drink, and one third for his breath."    It is of benefit to the body that the break of fasting starts with some dates (as indicated in the Prophetic tradition).  Dates are rich in Glucose and Fructose, which have a great caloric benefit specially for the brain, and are useful in raising the level of sugar gradually in blood, thus reducing the feeling of hunger and the need for large quantities of food. Moderate loss of weight.  During fasting, the consumption of sugars decreases, and so does the level of sugar in blood.  This makes the body rely on providing the needed calories for metabolism by burning  sugar stored in the body.   Glycogen stored in the liver, and fats in tissues are decomposed and transferred into calories and energy needed by the body.  This results in moderate shortage of body weight.  Therefore, fasting is considered of great value for overweight persons and stable non-insulin diabetes. Decrease of cholesterol level in blood.  Several studies proved that cholesterol level in blood during fasting, as well as the rate of precipitating on the walls of arteries have decreased.   This in turn reduces the chances of cardiac and cerebrovascular accidents, and prevents the raise of hypertension.   Shortage of fats in blood helps reduce stones of gall and choledocus.  The Prophet (PBUH) said; "Fast! You will be healthy." Rest of renal system.  Some studies revealed that abstaining from drinking water for about 10-12 hours is not necessarily bad; it is rather useful in many cases.  Concentration of liquids in the body causes moderate dehydration that the body can tolerate, as there is a sufficient liquid reserve, and as long as man has no complaint of renal lithiasis, both kidneys get rest of the process of waste disposing.  The prophetic tradition mandates that Suhur (a meal before the dawn) be delayed and Fotoor (the breakfast meal) be expedited, thus reducing the time period of dehydration as much as possible.   Shortage of liquids leads in turn to moderate decrease of blood pressure that the normal man can tolerate and be of use to those complaining of hypertension. Educational and psychological benefits.  Fasting Ramadan is useful as it has a restraining power over the soul's whimsies, and an urge to abandon bad habits, specially when the smoker is obliged to abstain from smoking even if for a temporary period, on the hope such abandon will be permanent.   This is also applied to drinking too much coffee and tea.  The psychological benefits are numerous.  The fasting person feels complacent, attains mental and psychological rest, refrains from all that disturbs the integrity of his fasting, and maintains the proper behaviour controls, that all reflect positively on the general community.  The Prophet said; "Fasting is restraining.  When anyone of you is fasting, he should refrain from obscene language or any acts of ignorance. And if anyone slanders him or quarrels with him, he should say; 'I am fasting, I am fasting.'"  Several studies revealed that crime rate in Islamic countries decreases during Ramadan . Allah the Almighty said; "And We send down of the Quran, that which is a healing and a mercy to the believers, and the unbelievers it causes not except loss." (17: 82) وننزل من القرآن ما هو شفاء ورحمة للمؤمنين ولا يزيد الظالمين إلا خسارا (الإسراء 57) Quran restores soul calmness: The results of researches conducted over a group of volunteers from USA who were subject to a recitation of the Holy Quran were striking.  A trace of a tranquilizing effect was recorded at a whole rate of 97%.  Although many of these volunteers do not know Arabic, yet involuntary physiological changes that led  notably to alleviate the acuity of tension they had before were observed in their nervous systems.  Furthermore, an experiment of EEG during Quran rehearsal revealed that while listening to Quran, the encephalic waves moved from the fast pattern of vigilance (12-13) wave/ second to the slow pattern (8-18) wave/ second; indicating the state of deep calmness.  Non-Arabic speaking persons felt reassured, quiet, and complacent during the process of listening to Quranic verses, in spite of their inability to understand the meanings.  This is one of the miracles of the Holy Quran.  The Prophet revealed that miracle when saying; "No people assembled in one of  the houses of Allah (mosques), and recite and study the Book of Allah (among themselves), except that tranquility would prevail over them, and mercy would encompass them, and the angels would surround them, and Allah would make a mention of them in the presence of those near Him." A healing from diseases: It is commonly known that Quran removes the causes of tension and cover the soul with tranquility and complacency.  But was that effect of Quran limited to the souls only?  When Allah says;  "And We send down of the Quran, that which is a healing and a mercy to the believers.." (17: 82), ( وننزل من القرآن ما هو شفاء ورحمة للمؤمنيـن.) Then how could the Quran be a healing for the bodies?  It is medically asserted that tension and worries lead to a deficiency in the immunity of human body in the face of all diseases.  The more the psychological and nervous condition of man is not stable, the more the chances to face the invasion of diseases.  Hence, the explanation becomes crystal clear- the Quran is a healing for bodies as it is a healing for the souls and spirits.  The Quran regains the balance of nervous and psychological systems for the believer who constantly recites and listens to it, and contemplates its meaning, thus leading to increase his bodily immunity and safeguard his internal defenses.  Man becomes in constant safety against the penetration of diseases.  With the Quranic prevailing luminous powers, all microbes and germs attacking the body in consecutive waves are resisted. Dr. Ahmed El Kadi conducted a research in USA on three groups of Americans who do not speak or understand Arabic.  He connected them to instruments for measuring biomedical functions such as blood pressure, heart pulses, EEG, myography, and sweat test.  He recited some Quranic verses for the first group, and ordinary sentences of everyday Arabic for the second group while the third group was a control group resting in a state of relaxation.  He found that the physiological changes for the first group listening to Quran recitation have more significantly improved than the other two groups (These results were announced by the Islamic Organization for Medical Science). Verily said the Almighty Allah; "If We had sent down the Quran upon a mountain, you would have seen it humbled, split asunder out of the fear of Allah.  And those similitude- We strike them for men; haply they will reflect. " (59: 21) (لو أنزلنا هذا القرآن على جبل لرأيته خاشعاً متصدعاً من خشية الله، وتلك الأمثال نضربها للناس لعلهم يتفكرون) الحشر 21 . Conclusion The Quran cannot be produced by any creature.   It is the word of the Almighty God, the Originator of everything and the One Who encompasses everything with His knowledge.  As how could any creature reveal such scientific facts and signs, as indicated above in some Quranic verses, that were impossible to be known with the level of knowledge at the time of revelation?   The Quran, with the description of all these scientific facts in accurate terms that fit with the modern rules of science, affirms that this is revealed by Allah. Man only unfolded these signs so many centuries after it had been revealed by Allah, with the help of modern technology.  The Quran is the word of Allah Who has created everything and knows the slightest details of His creation. Who can inspire to the Prophet Mohammed, other than Allah, such scientific truths in such a noble and well contrived language ? Although they possessed and knew the tools of the Arabic language, the unbelievers of Makkah were challenged to produce one verse of such Quran.   Yet, up to date and till doomsday the challenge still stands: "If the whole of mankind and Jinns were to gather together to produce the like of this Quran, they would never produce its like, not though they backed one another." (17:88) "قل لئن إجتمعت الأنسُ والجنُ على أن يأتوا بمثلِ هذا القرآن ، لا يأتونَ بمثلهِ ولو كان بعضُهم لبعضٍ ظهيرا."  ( الإسراء : 88) Allah also says in the Holy Quran; "If it had been from other than Allah, surely they would have found in it much inconsistencies" (4:82) "ولو كان من عند غير الله لوجدوا فيه إختلافا كثيرا" (النساء :82) With the passage of ages, every word of Quran still reveals the divine and miraculous nature of this Holy Book.  For the believers of Quran, this is a message to hold fast to this divine book and receive it as their only guide in this world and the Hereafter: "And this is a Book We have sent down and blesses, so follow it and have fear of Allah so that hopefully you will gain mercy." (6:155). (وَهَـذَا كِتَابٌ أَنزَلْنَاهُ مُبَارَكٌ فَاتَّبِعُوهُ وَاتَّقُواْ لَعَلَّكُمْ تُرْحَمُونَ) الأنعام 155 For the unbelievers, it is a call to open their minds and hearts to word of Allah, the Holy Quran, and  contemplate and ponder the last revelation to mankind. Yet, Allah remarks; "Say, 'The truth is from your Lord; so let whosoever wishes believe, and let whosoever wishes disbelieve."  (18: 29) (وَقُلِ الْحَقُّ مِن رَّبِّكُمْ فَمَن شَاء فَلْيُؤْمِن وَمَن شَاء فَلْيَكْفُرْ) الكهف 29 And; "No Indeed! It is a reminder, and whoso wills, pays heed to it"  (80:11-12) (كَلَّا إِنَّهَا تَذْكِرَةٌ ، فَمَن شَاء ذَكَرَهُ ) عبس 11-12 "And say: 'Praise be to Allah, Who will soon show you His signs, so that ye shall know them' " (27: 93) ( وَقُلِ الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ سَيُرِيكُمْ آيَاتِهِ فَتَعْرِفُونَهَا) (النمل: 93) and Who also says; "Soon will We show them our signs in the furthest horizons, and in their own souls, until it becomes manifest to them that this is the Truth" (41: 53). ( سنريهم آياتنا في الآفاق و في أنفسهم حتى يتبين لهم أنه الحق ) ( فصلت 53) References The Holy Quran. The Quran and modern science  ; Extracted from the Book :  The Bible, The Qur'an and Science , By: Maurice Bucaille Islamic Medicine on Line  . By  Dr. Sharif Kaf Al-Ghazal Clinical Anatomy . By Richard Snell ( 3ed edition) published in 1986 - Little, Brown Textbook of Medical Physiology . By  Guyton & Hall  - 10th edition Light, visible and invisible, and its medical applications . by Angela Newing (Gloucestershire Medical Physics Service, UK).   Pub. date: Nov 1999 Breastmilk feeding and lipoprotein profile in adolescents born preterm: follow-up of a prospective randomised study By Singhal A, Cole TJ, Fewtrell M, Lucas A.  Lancet. 2004 May 15;363(9421):1571-8 Papers presented in The Seventh International Conference on Scientific Signs in Quran & Sunna . Dubai 22-24 March 2004-08-25 Video presentations of : Professor Emeritus Keith Moore, Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology and the former Associate Dean of Basic Sciences at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Toronto, Canada. Prof. E. Marshall Johnson,  Chairman of the Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, and Director of the Daniel Baugh Institute, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Dr. G.C. Goeringer, Course Director and Associate Professor of Medical Embryology at the Department of Cell Biology, School of Medicine, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C, USA. Dr. T.V.N. Persaud, Professor of Anatomy and Reproductive Science