<http://africanmangoandweightloss.com/?p=336>; rel=shortlink
Set-Cookie: wpgb_visit_last_php-default=1334159836; expires=Thu, 11-Apr-2013 15:57:16 GMT; path=/
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Juicing for Colitis, Crohn’s Disease and Irritable Bowel Syndrome | African Mango HOME Privacy Policy About Us Contact Us Sitemap Juicing for Colitis, Crohn’s Disease and Irritable Bowel Syndrome April 7th, 2012 admin Hello there! If you are new here, you might want to subscribe to the RSS feed for updates on this topic. One of the greatest benefits juicing provides is the opportunity to consume all of the minerals, vitamins, and enzymes in fresh fruits and vegetables without the stress on your digestive system. Although fresh fruits and vegetables in their whole, un-juiced, form are an important part of most healthy peoples’ diets, there are many health situations where the bowel can benefit from limiting fiber. In these cases, a person needs to avoid the “roughage” found in vegetables and fruits yet still is badly in need of the nutrients which only produce can provide. Juicing is a wonderful answer to the nutritional challenges of people with digestive disorders such as ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and irritable bowel syndrome. All three of these disorders can have flare-ups triggered by excessive fiber intake, especially the insoluble fiber found in the skins of many fruits and vegetables as well as in nutritious green leafy vegetables. This can greatly limit a person’s diet. By using a juicer to extract juices from even the highest-fiber fruits and vegetables, an individual can benefit from all they have to offer nutritionally without the fiber acting as an irritating “scrub brush” in their bowel. People with very limited diets due to digestive diseases or with autoimmune diseases (such as Crohn’s and ulcerative colitis) are particularly in need of the extra health support fresh juices can provide through their concentrated nutrients and unique anti-inflammatory compounds. With digestive disorders such as these, doctors sometimes suggest resting the bowel from processing all solid foods, or at least avoiding high fiber foods. Sometimes they prescribe what is called a “low residue diet”. They tend to recommend that a patient subsist on very bland foods and processed, pasteurized, nutritionally empty fruit juices. Homemade fruit and vegetable juices are a much more nutritious alternative for bowel rest, and certainly provide more flavor variety that can be sorely lacking in a colitis or Crohn’s diet. In the case of irritable bowel syndrome, and sometimes other conditions, the pectin and other soluble fibers that do find their way into fresh juices are much less irritating than insoluble fiber and can actually help bowel movements be less painful and more well-formed. Another benefits that juicing provides a person with a digestive disorder is the ability to consume plant compounds therapeutically. For instance, there are specific fruits and vegetables known to promote healthier digestive tracts and to fight inflammation, and juicing is the best way to concentrate their beneficial properties. Here are some anti-inflammatory and pro-digestive fruits and vegetables to try juicing: • Carrot • Kale • Mango • Pineapple • Cabbage • Kiwi • White potato • Blueberries • Sour cherry • Asparagus • Beets • Bell peppers • Bitter Gourd • Broccoli • Cauliflower • Cranberry • Garlic • Ginger • Grapefruit Please note that cruciferous vegetables such as kale, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc. may cause gas and discomfort for some people with gastrointestinal disorders, though they also have anti-inflammatory properties. Try them in small amounts to see how you tolerate them. Also note that acidic vegetables and fruits such as tomato, pineapple and grapefruit may be irritating for some people with irritable bowel syndrome. The juices mentioned above can be mixed with soluble fiber powder for irritable bowel patients who have diarrhea or constipation. For people with Crohn’s disease they can be mixed with healthy oils like flax seed oil, Omega 3 fish oils, extra virgin olive oil or avocado to increase caloric content and provide much-needed dietary fats. Omega 3 fish oils are helpful for all inflammatory disorders including inflammation of the intestines or stomach. When living with diseases and disorders that affect your intestines, supporting your nutritional health while avoiding irritation of your colon is key. There are many benefits that juicing can provide to people with ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and irritable bowel syndrome. Fresh fruits and vegetables contain powerful phytochemicals that can help you heal and increase your comfort and wellbeing. As with all material changes to your lifestyle, please consult your medical professional before adopting a new nutritional program, especially if you are currently suffering from digestive tract disorders. Want to find out more about the benefits of juicing ? William Paice is Editor and Founder of juicing site MEGAjuicing.com . View the original article here Posted in Weight Loss Tags: Bowel , Colitis , Crohns , Disease , Irritable , Juicing , Syndrome « Feel Better Naturally – Wheat Grass Are You Non-Fatting Yourself Into Being Fat? » You can leave a response , or trackback from your own site. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Popular Posts 1. Health Tips For Healthy Eating 2. Probiotics Information 3. Balanced Diet For Losing Weight – How To Keep A Balanced Diet For Permanent Weight Loss 4. Fats: Exonerated 5. The Many Advantages Of Online Nutrition Games For Kids ? Amazon.com Widgets Recent Posts Top Nutrition Tip No. 4: Good Fats – Bad Fats Superfoods for Athletes Ending Your Unknown Sugar Addiction Healthy Diets Help In Weight Loss Why Is Organic Food Better Than Non-Organic? Plugin by wpburn.com wordpress themes Copyright © African Mango - And Weight Loss Powered by WordPress | Designed by: best suv | Thanks 