
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:35:10 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6
Cache-Control: max-age=1
Expires: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:35:11 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Grand Rapids dentist Bruce A. Stewart, DDS, PC 769 York Creek Drive NW Comstock Park, MI 49321 (616) 784-2377 Patient Login Doctor Login Grand Rapids dentist Have you had a check-up with Dr. Bruce Stewart lately? December 7th, 2011 Even if you brush and floss daily, it is still important to see Dr. Bruce Stewart every 6 months, or as recommended. Why? •	We can detect and treat tooth and gum problems that you may have never felt or noticed. •	Even thorough daily oral care may not be enough to prevent cavities and oral decay. •	Frequent visits can allow us to treat a problem early to prevent future complications. If you are overdue for an appointment with us, please give us a call today! -- Dr. Bruce Stewart & Team Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , dentist Grand Rapids MI Posted in Oral Health | No Comments How technology helps us all, from Dr. Bruce A. Stewart October 27th, 2011 Dr. Bruce A. Stewart wanted to share this story about how technology helped a recent patient get expert advice without leaving our office. I had a patient the other day who had a severely damaged tooth.  I wasn’t sure if it could be saved, so we took an intra-oral picture and an x-ray of the tooth.  We emailed it to a periodontist who looked at the x-ray and the picture and decided that the best option was extraction and an implant.  He felt the tooth could be removed and an implant placed the same day. Our patient was extremely happy to get all this information while sitting in our office.  He saved the time and cost involved with an office visit to the specialist to get this diagnosis, as well as gasoline costs. I thought you would enjoy this story of how our technology can be of help to you, should you have a problem. Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , new technology Posted in Dentistry | No Comments Smile! October is National Dental Hygiene Month! October 21st, 2011 Did you know that October is National Dental Hygiene Month ? For our staff at Dr. Stewart's office, that means only one thing: Reminding you that your teeth are an important part of your body, and keeping them clean helps keep your mouth and your body healthy. By taking care of your teeth, eating a balanced diet and visiting our convenient Comstock Park, MI office on a regular basis, you can have healthy teeth and an attractive smile throughout your entire life. We encourage you to check out the American Dental Association website as well, which provides pointers on keeping your mouth clean and healthy. Lastly, has it been six months since your last checkup? If the answer is yes, we encourage you to give us a call to set up an appointment with Dr. Stewart. Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist Posted in Oral Health | No Comments Second Annual Candy Buy-Back October 14th, 2011 Halloween is an exciting time of year for children, with Halloween parties in elementary schools and trick-or-treating on Halloween night. Most of us remember the excitement of running from house to house filling our bags with lots of treats, mostly candy. As adults we have a slightly different view of these festivities, as we understand the link between the sugars in sweets and tooth decay and overall health.  This cache of candy can mean trouble for teeth, and is particularly bad for children with braces.  So why not encourage your children to sell their candy to us at Dr. Bruce Stewart's office ?  Have them pick out a few of their favorite pieces and then bring the rest of the loot to our office. From Tuesday, November 1 through Thursday, November 10, we encourage all former costumed characters to bring us their candy loot. We will pay $2 for every pound of candy, up to $10 per child . Parents of these former ghosts and goblins can enter their name into a drawing for a $40 gift card to Meijers . The drawing will be held at the end of the day on November 10 and the winner will be notified that day. Cash versus cavities—the choice is easy.  Choose Cash!!! Tags: Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , Dr. Bruce Stewart , Candy Buy-Back Posted in Contests and Events | No Comments ArtPrize is Fast Approaching September 9th, 2011 School has begun, fall is in the air and ArtPrize is coming soon!  Only in its third year, this competition of various forms of art has drawn national and international attention to Grand Rapids . Each year, more and more people visit downtown during this period, filling our restaurants, museums and streets and enjoying art displayed on bridges, lawns, sidewalks, and in many buildings. Kay and I look forward to ArtPrize and go downtown several times during its duration.  Many of our staff visit ArtPrize as a family activity or as a couples’ night out.  We would enjoy supporting any of our patients whose work is displayed in ArtPrize.  So, if you have an entry in ArtPrize this year, please let us know.  We will make every effort to seek you out and support you.  It’s fun for us to see another side of our patients and the remarkable talent they have.  Good luck to all of our participants.  This seems like something where everyone wins, artists, citizens and our great city. Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , Art Prize Posted in Contests and Events | No Comments Digital Impressions, at Dr. Stewart's office August 25th, 2011 The office of Dr. Bruce Stewart is pleased to announce that we are now using the Cadent iTero digital Impression System to take all crown and bridge impressions at our office.  We have been waiting patiently for our training days to arrive, and they did this week.  We had a trainer from Cadent iTero in the office all day Tuesday and Wednesday teaching us the techniques of using the iTero and guiding us through taking digital impressions.  Training went very well and we are up and running and confident that our new system will be a real benefit to our patients.  You will no longer experience the messy and uncomfortable trays with impression material, and the gagging they can cause. The iTero impression process takes about five minutes, and creates an exact copy of the crown site as well as a more accurate fitting crown.  This will shorten the time needed to seat crowns, which is another benefit to the patient.  If you have been putting off getting a crown because of the impressions, give our office a call and see how easy and relatively comfortable the impression process is now that it is digital. Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , cadent itero Posted in Dentistry | No Comments The health benefits of dairy, from Dr. Stewart August 18th, 2011 Dr. Stewart wants to know: Is dairy a major part of your diet?  If not, it should be!  A study from the American Academy of Periodontology (AAP) found that regular consumption of dairy products, such as milk, cheese and yogurt, can actually lower your chances of contracting periodontal disease (also known as gum disease). Results of the study also showed that adults who consume at least 55 grams of lactic acid a day are less at risk for gum disease. Cheese is one of the healthiest snacks for your child's teeth. In addition to providing large amounts of much-needed calcium, cheese also does its part to fight cavities. Cheddar, Swiss, Mozzarella, and Monterey Jack all stimulate the body's salivary glands to clear the mouth of debris and protect them from acids that weaken them, according to the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry. This means cheese disrupts the development of cavities, especially when eaten as a snack or at the end of a meal. Calcium and phosphorous found in cheese reduce or prevent decreases in the plaque's ph level and work to re-mineralize the enamel of your child's teeth. Gum disease is caused by a bacterial infection in the mouth that affects the gums and jaw.  Gum disease results in a loss of teeth and bone, and has been connected to certain cases of heart disease, stroke, diabetes, respiratory disease and osteoporosis. Eating dairy is not just healthy for building strong bones, but is essential for maintaining a strong, healthy mouth.  Next time you reach for a quick snack, choose some cheese, or a glass of milk, and remember with each bite, and every sip you are preserving your teeth for a lifetime of smiles and good oral health! For more information about which dairy foods are best for keeping your teeth healthy, please give us a call. Tags: Bruce Stewart , cavities , Grand Rapids dentist , gum disease Posted in Oral Health | No Comments When It Is Important to Reschedule Your Dental Appointment August 12th, 2011 Many people are hesitant to call and reschedule dental appointments if they are not feeling well.  We appreciate the value these patients place on our time and that they don’t want to leave us with unfilled appointments. However, there are some situations where it is important that patients call to reschedule their appointments with Dr. Stewart . 1.	If you have active cold sores--Any time we are working in and around the mouth saliva can be transferred to your eyes or open wounds, or to the eyes and wounds on a member of the dental team.  The herpes virus can then damage these areas. 2.	If you have an active cold or flu--If you are in the early stages of a cold or any stage of the flu, please reschedule.  It is better for your health and the health of the dental team. 3.	If you have a heavy cough or congestion.  You will not be comfortable with keeping your mouth open for a prolonged period and the bacteria or virus will be airborne, thus possibly infecting the dental team. We thank you for your thoughtfulness and wish you good health. Tags: Bruce Stewart , dentist , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , dental appointments Posted in Dentistry | No Comments Westwinde Wiffle Ball Tournament August 4th, 2011 Dr. Stewart usually likes to use our blog to keep you updated about what is happening in our office, especially when we get new equipment, use new materials, or take continuing education classes. Today, however, he wanted to share with you something special one of our patients is doing.  It made him smile and he hopes it will bring a smile to your face too. John and Kara started the Westwinde Wiffle Ball Tournament three years ago, and it has grown and added features each year. This is a free event for 18 teams, five people per team (boys, girls, or co-ed), for ages 9—12 years, and will be held August 3 this year. The tournament is held in their back yard, but this is not a typical back yard.  To quote John, the field “looks like a ball field, sounds like a ball field, plays like a ball field” and even has a large wall, the “Hollow Monster”, patterned (on a smaller scale) after the Green Monster in Fenway Park. There is an official ball park organist & stadium announcer, large manual scoreboard and clock, official lined waffle ball field, official bases from Tiger Stadium, foul poles, home run fence and strike zone target backstop, umpires and other SURPRISES. Parents are welcome to bring lawn chairs and watch the tournament. All players will receive a free tournament t-shirt, as well as hot dogs, popcorn, cotton candy, and Gatorade. This is a great event which generates a lot of enthusiasm amongst the participants and promotes good sportsmanship, healthy outdoor activity and FUN. Hats off to John and Kara for creating this event! Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist , Westwinde Wiffle Ball Tournament Posted in Contests and Events | No Comments Dr. Stewart's Office Garden Party July 28th, 2011 What can be better than summer in Grand Rapids, Michigan ? And what better way to enjoy the weather and beauty of the season than a Garden Party? That’s exactly what Dr. Stewart and out team did on Friday, July 22. We had a luncheon at our home and followed that with a tour of our gardens. Dr. Stewart is an avid gardener and we've lived in the same home over 32 years, so we've had time to develop the gardens next to our house and surrounding the yard. Our family loves the daylilies and hostas, and we have over 75 different daylilies. Though the weather did not cooperate at first, it cleared in time for everyone to walk around the yard and determine their favorite plant. When it is time to split the daylilies and hostas, we're  planning to take some to the office for fellow gardeners amongst the staff to enjoy in their yards.  We all had a great time Friday and enjoyed the shared interests and friendships away from the office. Tags: Bruce Stewart , staff appreciation , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist Posted in Contests and Events | No Comments Five reasons to keep track of your dental appointments July 21st, 2011 All of us here at the office of Dr. Bruce Stewart know that summer is a time of relaxation and less scheduling.  Still, it is important to keep one schedule in mind throughout the summer, and that is the schedule you should maintain for good oral health.   Here are some facts to keep in mind when considering when to schedule your family’s next dental appointments, and what services to request. 1.	In today’s challenging economic times, it makes good sense to keep on top of your dental visits.  Problems can be prevented or minimized if they are caught early.  For example, we can catch decay when it is small and requires only one surface filling, rather than a large filling or root canal. 2.	Fluoride and sealants can help prevent tooth decay.  We can apply fluoride and sealants when you come in for an appointment. It will save time and money, since applying fluoride and sealants does not require the amount of time a filling requires, and they are much less expensive than even a small filling. 3.	If a hygienist notices the beginning of demineralization in a tooth or teeth, we can use MI Paste and reverse the demineralization process, and possibly prevent decay from forming. 4.	Our hygiene schedule is very full, but we know that we traditionally get calls near the end of summer asking for appointments to get children in before school starts or before they leave for college.  Our hygienists have agreed to work some extra days so that we can accommodate our patients’ needs.  We will do our best to get your school-aged children and college students in the schedule before school begins. 5.	If you schedule your appointment at the end of July, that makes the six month recall around the time of semester break. If you schedule at the end of August, that makes the six month recall appointment around winter break. This allows parents to avoid pulling children out of school and prevents the hassle of trying to schedule around after school sports and extra curricular activities. We look forward to seeing you soon! Tags: Bruce Stewart , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist Posted in Oral Health | No Comments More Patient Testimonials! July 7th, 2011 The office of Dr. Bruce A. Stewart has received so many great testimonials lately, that we wanted to share a couple more with you. We loving hearing what you have to say and your opinions are extremely important to us. If you ever have any questions or concerns feel free to contact our office or post a comment to our Facebook page ! Take a look at what some of our patients have to say about Dr. Stewart and our staff: " Carol, my hygienist, is always outstanding. I would recommend her to everyone. Monica and Debbie are always very friendly, welcoming and professional ." -- Dennis " Everyone from Monica to Barb, my hygienist, to Dr. Stewart is always very friendly, professional and treat you like “family,” for over 30 years of service !" -- Jane " Dr. Stewart and his staff truly know how to treat his patients.  Being afraid to have treatment no longer enters my mind.  My first visit to Dr. Stewart’s office never made me afraid to go to the dentist again.  They do everything right to make the trip worth the smile on my face continue for a long time.  As long as they are there, I will be also.  Thank you Dr. Stewart and staff !" -- Linda " I would highly recommend Dr. Stewart and his awesome staff to anyone.  I was not a patient of Dr. Stewart’s and broke a tooth on 4th of July week.  Dr. Stewart and his staff took me in because I couldn’t get in to my own dentist.  They were highly recommended to me from a friend.  They were very kind and understanding and helped me through the whole process of getting my tooth fixed.  Thank You for your service that was above and beyond what I could hope for ." Thank you for all of the kind words! We look forward to seeing you at your next appointment! Tags: Bruce Stewart , dentist , Grand Rapids dentist , Comstock Park MI dentist Posted in About Our Office | No Comments Patient Testimonials June 30th, 2011 Here at the office of Dr. Bruce Stewart , we love to hear what our patients have to say. The comfort of our patients is important to us and we strive to provide you with the best in dental care. Lately we have received some wonderful patient testimonials that we wanted to share with you all: -- "I NEVER liked going to the dentist prior to being a patient with Dr. Stewart.  Now the only thing I fear is finding a new dentist when he retires…in the very distant future!!" -Nicholus K. -- "My experience was fantastic.  Very knowledgeable staff.  Pleasant, professional atmosphere.  Great service.  I thought the initial personal, interview and talk with the dentist and hygienist was unexpectedly nice.  (Unexpected because I never imagined being given that kind of personal time.)  I could tell the staff worked well with each other and had a lot of experience.  They were all very professional as well as friendly." -Matthew H. -- "Cathy did an amazing job with Baylor.  She was patient, calm, and really got him interested in the whole dental visit.  I have never seen him so calm at a first visit in a clinical setting.  She was beyond amazing!" -Nicole J. -- "Debbie, Dr. Stewart, Monica—okay, really, everyone in your office is exceptionally professional and friendly, kudos!" -Kelli O. -- "You couldn’t ask for a more friendly staff.  They ALL take a personal interest in you and your family." -Brenda H. -- "Cathy, my hygienist, is one of the main reasons I keep coming back.  She is always friendly and professional.  You have a great employee there!!" -Jason C. Thank you for all of the kind words. We look forward to seeing you at your next appointment! Tags: Bruce Stewart , dentist , cosmetic dentist , Grand Rapids dentist , Dr. Stewart Posted in About Our Office | No Comments Back to top About Our Office Meet Dr. Bruce Stewart Meet the Staff What Sets Us Apart? Our Blog Cosmetic Dentistry Cosmetic Dentistry General Dentistry General Dentistry Invisalign® Invisalign® Info Invisalign Teen™ Info Invisalign® Costs Invisalign® FAQ Invisalign® Testimonials Invisalign® Before & After Invisalign® Videos New Dental Technology New Dental Technology Testimonials Testimonials Smile Gallery Smile Gallery For New Patients Dental FAQ Your First Visit Financial Information Office Tour Patient Comforts Patient Forms Contact Us Office Location Appointment Request Comment Form Rate Our Website! Home (616) 784-2377 Search Blog: Search Home Contact Office Tour Sitemap Testimonials Before and After Meet Dr. Bruce Stewart Meet the Staff What Sets Us Apart Patient Forms Dental FAQ Smile Gallery