
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.0.0
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 06:55:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17

Heart Articles: Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Services of Central NY 19 Kellogg Rd, New Hartford, NY 13413 Telephone: (315) 601-6187 Chinese Medicine - Alternative Healthcare for Picture Perfect Health Home | Heart February 07, 2009 The Heart in Chinese Medicine Chinese medicine, like Western medicine, believes that the Heart is responsible for the circulation of Blood and the health of the blood vessels.  If the Heart is strong, circulation will be good, all of the body's tissues will be well nourished, and the pulse will be full and regular.  Physiologically, both believe that a weak Heart can lead to palpitations and chest pain - even heart attack.  Chinese medicine believes that the Heart controls sweating.  So, it is no surprise that one of the main symptoms of a heart attack is breaking out in a cold sweat. Chinese medicine also believes that the Heart “houses the mind”.  This may be a difficult concept to grasp, but according to Chinese medicine, the health of the Heart energy has a lot to do with our mental activity – even consciousness. The Heart governs our ability to sleep soundly, think clearly and have a good memory.  A healthy Heart plays a big role in our emotional health and our ability to have meaningful relationships.   When the Heart energy is weak and Blood is deficient, we may suffer from anxiety, insomnia, forgetfulness, inability to concentrate, and in extreme cases manic behavior or coma. Continue reading this entry on Heart » Posted by Joyce Marley at 11:53 AM | The Heart in Chinese Medicine January 23, 2008 Insomnia Due to Heart Disease A local support group for heart and stroke patients asked me recently to give a talk about acupuncture and Chinese medicine at one of their monthly meetings.  One gentleman approached me afterwards and said that he had not slept well since his heart bypass surgery, which had been about three years earlier.  This did not surprise me, as the Heart in Chinese medicine is said to house the spirit and has a lot to do with the body’s ability to sleep peacefully.  Since the problem was becoming really worrisome (he only slept two hours a night), and he did not want to add another medication to his long list of prescriptions, he decided he had nothing to lose by trying acupuncture treatments. We started weekly treatments.  I used points that are well known to calm the mind and nourish the heart to help sleep.  For a couple of weeks, he would sleep better for a night or two only to return to the same pattern of two hours a night. After four treatments he was getting discouraged, and even though I did not expect to turn around a three year-old habit overnight, I was searching all of my materials for the best protocol for his constitution. Continue reading this entry on Heart » Posted by Joyce Marley at 08:49 AM | Insomnia Due to Heart Disease Home | Meet Joyce | Try It! | In the News | Brochure | Location | Contact | Disclaimer | Article Index Basic Theory | Book Reviews | Common Questions | Health A-Z | Nutrition Therapy | Testimonials Copyright ©2006 Acupuncture Services of Central New York Alternative Health Care for the  Whitesboro, Clinton, 
      