Connection: Close
Content-Type: text/html

Cheryl M. Craft  Ph.D. Back to Dr. Craft's page USC Health & Medicine, Winter 1995:  "The Mind's Eye" by Richard Cox The debate regarding the relationship between the mind and
the brain has raged literally for centuries, capturing the imaginations of
philosophers and scientists alike. Three
centuries ago French philosopher Rene Descartes held forth on the subject of
dualism, depicting the mind as separate from the brain. He perceived the mind as some sort of out-of-body experience expressed
through the pineal gland, a small, pea-sized organ buried deep within the brain. While he was wrong about casting the pineal in this
exalted role, Descarte certainly gave scientists a lot to talk about. Given the era, he was at a distinct scientific disadvantage. Today, neuroscientists realize that the pineal gland is actually only one
element of an interdependent system governing how we think, feel and act. Applying the powerful tools of cellular and molecular biology,
researchers at USC and other institutions are beginning to decipher this complex
physiologic process, a process that begins with our eyes. “Vision and the processing of visual information is
initiated in the retina , but the retina also has been useful as a model for
understanding information processing in the brain. The visual system offers a perfect place for researchers to
begin to study the brain, since so much of the human experience is based upon
what we see,” says Cheryl Craft, Ph.D., Mark D. Allen Professor and chair of
USC’s Department of Cell and Neurobiology. Craft joined USC in the summer of 1994 and continues to investigate how
the hormonal and behavioral activities of a person are modulated by the visual
input from the eye influencing the biological clock of the hypothalamus, the
part of the brain which regulates spontaneous activities such as body
temperature and metabolic process. “We may learn more about the brain by coming to
understand the eye,” she says. “the
eye is so accessible. The brain, of
course, isn’t. “By monitoring the metabolic processes and shifts in
cerebral blood flow into different parts of the prestriate cortex—that part of
the brain connected to the retina by the optic nerve—we can tell where those
elements of the visual world, like color, form, and motion, are processed,”
she says. “But how the brain
attaches meaning to this information remains the unsolved mystery.” The pineal gland has intrigued Craft since her graduate
student days when she first understood the evolutionary change to which the
pineal has been subjected. While
its role in humans has yet to be fully understood, much has been gleaned about
its impact on other vertebrates. Under the skin in the skull of a lizard lies a
light-responsive “third eye” which is the evolutionary equivalent of the
bone-encased, hormone-secreting pineal gland in the human brain. The human pineal is denied access to light directly, but like the
lizard’s “third eye,” it shows enhanced release of its hormone, melatonin,
during the night. Craft notes,
“The challenge is to understand the mechanisms which regulate the synthesis
and release of melatonin. The pineal gland is the ‘mind’s eye.’ Dissected, the reptile’s pineal looks much like an eye,
with the same shape and tissue. “The pineal is one of several interactive centers in the
brain that can alter an individual’s behavior. However, it uniquely remains the major source of circulating melatonin,
an essential hormonal component in the neuronal circuitry of behavior which
occurs during the nighttime.” Melatonin
synchronizes the pineal gland so we know when to go to sleep at night and when
to get up in the morning. It tells
the body how the outside world is perceived. “Melatonin has received a lot of attention lately in the
popular press,” continues Craft. “It
has been professed to have many functions, from inducing sleep to increasing
precocious sexual behavior. The
widespread belief that melatonin intake is a sure cure for jet lag has made it a
steady seller in health food stores.” The presence of light reduces the pineal gland’s
secretion of melatonin, and darkness stimulates production. Since daylight and darkness affect the gland’s production
of the hormone, the pineal functions as a kind of internal timepiece. “The pineal is no master gland where human experience is
somehow embedded, controlling interaction between mind and body, as Descartes
thought,” she says. While
researchers are reluctant to label the pineal gland as the ultimate source of
our daily metabolic cycle—the so-called “circadian clock”—they have been able to gauge
melatonin’s impact on the natural rhythm of our bodies. Increase production of melatonin lengthens the amount of sleep we need,
influences the foods we choose to eat, and the amount of weight we gain. Affected by seasonal changes detected by the eyes, our bodies shift forward
or slow down when stimulated or deprived of light. “The retina is the ‘window to the brain’ through
which the eyes reveal the external environment to the interpretative action of
the brain,” Craft comments. “For
example, we recognize that the length of day becomes shorter in the winter. Sensing the reduced hours of sunlight, deciduous trees drop their leaves. Humans don’ have leaves to drop, but our brain is acutely aware of the
diminished period of sunlight. In
some individual the winter may be accompanied by feeling of sadness or
depression.” This depressing effect of light deprivation is
characterized in a form of an illness called seasonal affective disorder (SAD). The "blues" can be so disabling in some people that they are
unable to function during the darker periods of the year. Yet, with the advent of spring, many SAD sufferers have a spontaneous
remission of their depression. Treatment
often consists of prolonging the positive affects of daylight through the use of
intense artificial light. Recent
research suggests that this light therapy is effective in alleviating depression
even when patients are blind, revealing the complex role vision plays in our
neurobiology. From an evolutionary standpoint, the pineal may have been
intended to work in concert with our eyes. Using molecular biology techniques, Craft has shown that the pineal and
retina express a number of genes in common. "The photoreceptors cells of the mammalian retina, as well as the
pineal are able to produce melatonin," explains Craft. "Our current findings suggest that retinal melatonin is sequestered,
at least partially, from the blood circulation, leaving the pineal melatonin to
be the dominant source for the body." The clock mechanism that drives hormonal and metabolic
changes in darkness or light lies deep within the brain in a collection of about
10,000 neurons known as the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Craft says, "The informational message center of this nucleus
communicates with the pineal and other regions of the hypothalamus that
influence the hormonal regulation of body activities. Somehow, between the cycles of day and night and production of melatonin
from the pineal, the nucleus may help to determine, among other things, when you
feel sad, sleepy, optimistic, or energized." While these findings represent an important contribution
toward understanding certain types of human behavior, Craft believes the most
important discoveries have yet to be made. She points out, "There is much to learn about the function of
melatonin and its role in health maintenance or disease." Answers will have to wait as researchers continue to
grapple with some of the most fundamental matters involving the human biological
clock. For Craft, that means
cloning the enzymes that regulate the synthesis of melatonin in the pineal and
retina and improving our understanding of the melatonin receptor. Craft admits, "There are unrealized potentials in
neuroscience that relate to affective disorders and cognition. It seems reasonable that the circadian clock, acting through the pineal,
will turn out to be a powerful instrument to which the stability of our mental
health is firmly synchronized." She notes that a major step toward resolving a functional
role for melatonin will occur when scientists are able to breed laboratory mice
that lack the melatonin receptor gene. "Without
this receptor gene, we will be able to see how the mice are affected by the loss
of a melatonin target," explains Craft. "Who knows? Maybe
we'll be the ones who resolve the big questions about mind, matter, and a
clockwork universe. Only time wil