Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Kent Family Dentistry K ent Family Dentistry Evening & Saturday Appts Home Page :: New Patients :: About Us :: Services :: FAQs :: Hours/Map :: Contact Us :: Account Access :: Frequently Asked Questions 1. At what age should my child first see a dentist? Ideally, it's best to take your child to a pediatric dentist 
			around twelve months of age. The earlier you begin, the better 
			chance your child has to prevent problems. In addition to checking 
			for decay and other problems, our dentist will teach you how to 
			properly clean your child's teeth daily and will evaluate your 
			child's teeth for supplemental fluoride needs. By starting dental 
			visits at an early age, you'll be helping your child build a 
			lifetime of good dental habits. 2. How often should my child see the pediatric dentist? It is generally recommended that children visit the dentist every 
			six months for a comprehensive examination, full mouth dental 
			cleaning, oral hygiene instructions and radiographic evaluation. 
			However, since each child's individual needs are different the 
			pediatric dentist is best able to suggest a proper schedule of 
			visits for your child. 3. What should I tell my child about seeing the dentist? Tell your child that the dentist is a friendly doctor who will 
			help the child stay healthy. Talk about the visit in a positive, 
			matter-of-fact way, as you would about any important new experience. 
			A visit to the dentist can be a pleasant adventure for your child. 4. When should I start cleaning my baby's teeth? The sooner the better! Starting at birth, clean your baby's gums 
			with a clean washcloth. Use a tiny dab of fluoride toothpaste if 
			your pediatric dentist advises fluoride protection. Later, brush 
			your child's teeth with fluoride toothpaste and a small, soft 
			bristled toothbrush. Remember that most small children do not have 
			the dexterity to brush their teeth effectively. 5. Should I worry about pacifier use, thumb or finger sucking? Pacifier, thumb and finger sucking is perfectly normal for 
			infants and provides security. Most children stop sucking on 
			pacifiers, thumbs and other objects around two without harm to their 
			teeth and jaws. However, children who prolong sucking habits can 
			create crowded and tipped teeth. We will carefully watch your 
			child's jaw development and watch the way their teeth come in. We can also give you helpful advice to encourage your child to 
			stop, as well as talk to your child about what happens to the teeth 
			if they don't stop. The advice, coupled with support from parents, 
			helps most children break the habit. 6. What guidelines will help children remain cavity-free? The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry advises: Brush with a 
			fluoride toothpaste twice a day, floss children's teeth until they 
			are able to do it themselves around age ten and rinse with 
			fluoridated water. Have sealants applied to the chewing surface of 
			permanent back teeth (molars) as soon as they erupt through the 
			gums. Snack moderately and of course, visit the Dentist twice a year 
			to make sure you have a healthy mouth!! Previous Next Kent Dentist, Dentists Hugh Leung DMD DDS Family Dentistry 431 East Ward Street, Kent, Washington, WA 98030 Family 
	Dentist, Dentists serving Kent WA Washington and the surrounding areas. Implants, Cosmetics, Veneers. Auburn, Renton, Covington, Des Moines, Tukwi