Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Taking your child to the dentist Home About Us All About Teeth Tooth Health General Considerations Infants and Toddlers Brushing Kids' Teeth Toothbrushes and Toothpaste Using Dental Floss Fluoride Dental Injuries Dentist Visits The First Dental Visit Common Dental Terms Preventative Visits Visits About Problems What to do When Your Child is Afraid of the Dentist Seeing Specialists Books Kids' Links More Info Healthy Nutrition Healthy Snacks Oral Habits Other problems Contact Us Taking Your Child to the Dentist Jump to: The first dental visit Basic dental terms Visits to the Dentist to Prevent Dental Disease Visits to the Dentist to Take Care of Problems What to do When Your Chiild is Afraid of the Dentist Seeing Specialists The First Dental  Visit Take your child to the dentist when the first tooth erupts or at the latest at the child’s first birthday. The earlier the dental visit, the better the chance of preventing dental problems for your child. Read your child a book about going to the dentist. Be positive about going to the dentist! Do not talk about being afraid of the dentist. Do not talk about pain. Answer your child’s questions about going to the dentist. Establish a habit for your child of going to the dentist regularly. A first dental visit should be a positive experience for your child. The " Child’s First Visit to the Dentist " is explained in a video which can be accessed by going to the following web site and clicking on the first item “A Child's First Visit”. First Dental Visit Calming the Anxious Child , from the American Academy  of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Basic Dental Terms The dentist calls it… Adults say… Parents, please say to    your child… Which problems do patients have? Cavity Hole in tooth You have a sick tooth. You have sugar bugs in your tooth. Abscess Gum boil, swelling, infection For little kids: there is “owie” right here Fractured tooth Broken tooth Broken tooth What dentists do: Put mouth prop into mouth Bite block The dentist puts a tooth chair Or tooth pillow in your mouth so you can rest your teeth    on it. Give injection Give shot; use needle; poke; injection Squirt some sleepy juice/water next to your tooth Rubber Dam Rubber dam The dentist puts a rain coat around your tooth to keep    your face dry. Extraction Knock out Yank Pull Your tooth turned into an owie and we will get rid of the    owie; Wiggle a tooth out; Remove a sick tooth; Get ready for Tooth Fairy and Big    Boy/girl teeth Prepare the tooth    for a filling / cavity preparation Drilling Clean the sugar    bugs out of your tooth; Clean the sick    part away Restoration (filling) Metal filling Band-Aid Silver Star/Play-Dough White Star/Play-Dough Sealants Sealants; coating of tooth; tooth gets painted We paint something on your tooth to make your tooth smooth    and strong, so the sugar bugs cannot get into it. Pulpotomy Root canal; Nerve Clean sick tooth and give it some medicine Stainless steel crowns Crowns; caps Tooth jewelry Tooth baseball cap Make an impression Make an impression; make a form of the teeth We have some pudding and make a model of your teeth with    it. Medicines dentists use: Nitrous oxide Gas Special air Special perfume Nitrous oxide mask Gas mask Scuba mask Airplane pilot mask Sedative Drug Put you under Put you to sleep Yummy medicine Special juice Local anesthesia (numb) Novacaine; make you numb Sleepy juice Instruments    dentists use: Immobilizer Papoose board Restraint Butterfly blanket Surfboard Suction Suction; vacuum vacuum Air / Water syringe Squirt water / air Wash and dry the tooth; Mr. Wind Explorer Instrument; pick Tooth counter; some of your teeth are itchy and I scratch    them with this. Scaler Scraper Tooth cleaner Curing light Light gun Tooth hair dryer Handpiece (high-speed) Drill, 
          Cut Mr. Whistle Super Fast Toothbrush Handpiece (low-speed) Drill, 
          Cut Mr. Bumpy Visits to Prevent Dental Disease Dental visits help to keep your      child’s teeth healthy. Having       your child’s teeth cleaned and polished helps to keep the teeth healthy. Having        fluoride treatments helps to keep your child’s teeth healthy. Your         child can have sealants applied to their teeth to help prevent         cavities. The          dentist can make a mouth-guard to help prevent sports injuries. The           dentist can care for your child’s early orthodontic needs Preventive Dentistry , from the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) The Pediatric Dentist , from the American Academy  of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Regular Dental Visits , from the American Academy  of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Sealants Sealants , from the American Academy  of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Dental Sealants What is a Dental Hygienist? —general information, not child  specific Visits to Take Care  of Problems Whenever your child complains of a      tooth ache, take your child to the dentist. Note:       The earlier a dentist takes care of a sick tooth, the better it is. If you        do not see a dentist when your child has a cavity, the cavity can get        deeper and go to the nerve of the tooth. This is very painful for your        child. It         can also lead to a painful infection - called “abscess”. Baby Teeth —Save Them or Pull Them? Conscious Sedation , from the American Academy  of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Gum Disease Ouch!  How to treat  that toothache —general information, not child specific Stages of Gingivitis and Periodontal Disease —general  information, not child specific What to do When your Child is Afraid of the Dentist Read books to your child about going      to the dentist to help them relax. Tell       them about going to the dentist in a matter-of-fact way. Answer        your child’s questions about what will happen in a straight forward way. If         you are relaxed about taking your child to the dentist, your child is         less likely to be afraid. Let          the dental team explain to your child what will happen in child          friendly words. Think           about which time of day might work best for your child. Taking your           child later in the day when the child is tired might not be the best           time. Calming the       Anxious Child , from the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Seeing Specialists The dentist might recommend that you take your child to an orthodontist. An orthodontist can help make your child’s smile pretty by straightening teeth. Straight teeth are easier to keep clean. Endodontic  Treatment for Kids All About Orthodontia Going to the Orthodontist —website for kids Braces —website for kids In Spanish: Los Aparatos de Ortodoncia Othodontics (Braces) —general information, not child specific This work was supported by grant # DE 14587-02  from NIDCR (PI: Inglehart). Dr. Marita R. Inglehart, Dept. Of Periodontics and Oral  Medicine University of Michigan  School  of Dentistry, Ann Arbor, MI.  48109-1078. 