<http://www.mnacupuncture.com/?p=144>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Minneapolis Acupuncture Clinic near Chaska Acupuncture Works! Your Minneapolis Acupuncture Clinic Home About Directions to our Clinic Contact Us Our Blog Join Over 400 Subscribers 5 Reasons to do Acupuncture FAQ’s–Acupuncture Questions Treatments Conditions Treated New Patient Intake Form Other Headache Relief Anxiety Relief Tuina Massage Referrals and our Clinic Fertility, making babies… Acupuncture and Pregnancy Buy Organic Tea Here is one theory on why acupuncture works…and a shout out to the Arboretum October 7, 2009 By Mason McClellan LAc This article is the most exact to the actual mechanisms to why acupuncture is useful in pain management.  But when will people learn that there is still so much more.  The therapeutic relationship, the dietary modifications, the improved sleep.  There are so many factors when visiting your local acupuncture clinic, (hint, hint….if you live around Lake Minnetonka, Chaska, Chanhassen, Shakopee, and Eden Prairie we are right off of Hwy 5 and Market Blvd)  This week I want to focus on stress-related disorders, if you are seeking treatment for insomnia and anxiety or just need a breather.  Come talk to us and we will listen to what you have to say and we can see if acupuncture can bring you relief. http://www.sciencealert.com.au/news/20090810-19956-2.html PS…before the snow comes, check out the Arboretum in Chaska–they have the most beautiful Japanese garden!!!  The leaves are changing and this place would be a great stress-reducer if you don’t see me that is. http://www.arboretum.umn.edu/ Filed Under: Acupuncture , Articles Sandra and Mason McClellan LAc Insurance Networks and Payments We are in-network with HP/Cigna and BCBS. (FYI...Blue Cross is not easy to work with and very strigent to what they cover with acupuncture benefits.) We do take FSA and HSA money for treatment and can provide a "superbill." About a 25% of our patients have good plans.  About 40% use HSA/Flex money and the rest are cash at the TOS. We do accept auto and PI cases but it is not our clinical focus. *If you are committed to care we will work with everyone to make treatments accessible. Some out-of-network companies will cover your treatments. Blog Posts by Category Acupuncture (43) Articles (32) Cancer (4) Chanhassen (31) Healthcare (12) Newsletters (34) Testimonials (8) Uncategorized (15) Tags acupucture Acupuncture acupuncture cancer arthritis birth Cancer care drugs gluten herbs hospital infographic minnesota natural pain pregnancy treatment wheat Search Return to top of page Copyright © 2012 · Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in Clinic Twitter Page Welcome new fans, stop by the clinic and visit if you have questions:) about 1 day ago Welcome baby Jack to the world and a positive rumor to end the week:) about 2 days ago I post often about my walks with Finnegan, they are one of my favorite things.  It gives me time to to reflect,... http://t.co/pACoel7t about 4 days ago A massage from Erin would make an excellent Mother's Day gift, keep that in mind;) about 4 days ago We all need to watch out for each other!... http://t.co/nTZH487m about 6 days ago BTW....I think we started our 4th year in practice this week!  Quite the journey, thank you everyone for all your support!!! about 10 days ago Super cool research on what points activate different areas of the brain!  Points Matter!... http://t.co/Ap4SaDPQ about 11 days ago I gave our site a new look, I hope you like! http://t.co/QU3OCqMw http://t.co/cY9YfsgG about 13 days ago https://twitter.com/#!/MNAcupuncture Latest Blog Posts March 2012 Acupuncture Newsletters Implications of Modern Wheat! February 2012 Acupuncture Newsletter January 2012 Acupuncture Newsletter Hello world! December 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter November 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter October 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter September 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter August 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter July 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter See your Qi June 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter May 2011 Acupuncture Newsletter Apri