
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
Content-Type: text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1
Date: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 13:55:32 GMT
Connection: close

Diazepam - Adverse drug reactions causing Malaise - case studies for Malaise and Malaise treatments Diazepam - Malaise Diazepam has been related to the side effect of Malaise.  If you are taking Diazepam and have experienced Malaise this information may be of use to you. HOME :: Amazon.com Widgets Enter your search terms Submit search form Diazepam Drug Insert (if available) IMPORTANT NOTE: The following information is intended to supplement, not substitute for, the expertise and judgment of your physician, pharmacist or other healthcare professional. It should not be construed to indicate that use of the drug is safe, appropriate, or effective for you. Consult your healthcare professional before using this drug. DIAZEPAMTABLETS, USP   CIV2 mg, 5 mg and10 mg DIAZEPAM 
            		 - 
            		diazepam tablet Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. ---------- DIAZEPAM TABLETS, USP   CIV 2 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg CIV Rx only DESCRIPTION Diazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative. Chemically, diazepam is 7-chloro-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl-5-phenyl-2 H -1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one. It is a colorless to light yellow crystalline compound, insoluble in water and has a molecular weight
         of 284.74. Its structural formula is as follows: Each tablet for oral administration contains 2 mg, 5 mg or 10 mg diazepam and the following inactive ingredients: colloidal
         silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, pregelatinized starch and sodium lauryl sulfate. The following
         coloring agents are employed: 2 mg - none 5 mg - FD&C Yellow #6 10 mg - FD&C Blue #1 and D&C Yellow #10 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In animals, diazepam appears to act on parts of the limbic system, the thalamus and hypothalamus, and induces calming effects.
         Diazepam, unlike chlorpromazine and reserpine, has no demonstrable peripheral autonomic blocking action, nor does it produce
         extrapyramidal side effects; however, animals treated with diazepam do have a transient ataxia at higher doses. Diazepam was
         found to have transient cardiovascular depressor effects in dogs. Long-term experiments in rats revealed no disturbances of
         endocrine function. Oral LD 50 of diazepam is 720 mg/kg in mice and 1240 mg/kg in rats. Intraperitoneal administration of 400 mg/kg to a monkey resulted
         in death on the sixth day. Reproduction Studies A series of rat reproduction studies was performed with diazepam in oral doses of 1, 10, 80 and 100 mg/kg. At 100 mg/kg there
         was a decrease in the number of pregnancies and surviving offspring in these rats. Neonatal survival of rats at doses lower
         than 100 mg/kg was within normal limits. Several neonates in these rat reproduction studies showed skeletal or other defects.
         Further studies in rats at doses up to and including 80 mg/kg/day did not reveal teratological effects on the offspring. In humans, measurable blood levels of diazepam were obtained in maternal and cord blood, indicating placental transfer of
         the drug. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety
         or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. In acute alcohol withdrawal, diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute
         delirium tremens and hallucinosis. Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology (such as inflammation
         of the muscles or joints, or secondary to trauma); spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders (such as cerebral palsy
         and paraplegia); athetosis; and stiffman syndrome. Oral diazepam may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders, although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy. The effectiveness of diazepam in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical
         studies. The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug and, because of lack of sufficient clinical
         experience, in pediatric patients under 6 months of age. It may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving
         appropriate therapy, but is contraindicated in acute narrow angle glaucoma. WARNINGS Diazepam is not of value in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed in lieu of appropriate treatment.
         As is true of most preparations containing CNS-acting drugs, patients receiving diazepam should be cautioned against engaging
         in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. As with other agents which have anticonvulsant activity, when diazepam is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders,
         the possibility of an increase in the frequency and/or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage
         of standard anticonvulsant medication. Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam in such cases may also be associated with a temporary
         increase in the frequency and/or severity of seizures. Since diazepam has a central nervous system depressant effect, patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion
         of alcohol and other CNS-depressant drugs during diazepam therapy. Usage in Pregnancy An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers (diazepam, meprobamate and chlordiazepoxide)
            during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies. Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter
            of urgency, their use during this period should almost always be avoided. The possibility that a woman of child-bearing potential
            may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered. Patients should be advised that if they become
            pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability
            of discontinuing the drug. Management of Overdosage Manifestations of diazepam overdosage include somnolence, confusion, coma and diminished reflexes. Respiration, pulse and
         blood pressure should be monitored, as in all cases of drug overdosage, although, in general, these effects have been minimal
         following overdosage. General supportive measures should be employed, along with immediate gastric lavage. Intravenous fluids
         should be administered and an adequate airway maintained. Hypotension may be combated by the use of norepinephrine or metaraminol.
         Dialysis is of limited value. As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug, it should be borne in mind that
         multiple agents may have been ingested. Flumazenil, a specific benzodiazepine-receptor antagonist, is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative
         effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected. Prior
         to the administration of flumazenil, necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway, ventilation, and intravenous
         access. Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to, not as a substitute for, proper management of benzodiazepine overdose. Patients
         treated with flumazenil should be monitored for resedation, respiratory depression and other residual benzodiazepine effects
         for an appropriate period after treatment. The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment, particularly in long-term benzodiazepine
            users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose. The complete flumazenil package insert, including CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, should be consulted prior
         to use. Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines. (See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section.) PRECAUTIONS If diazepam is to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs, careful consideration should be given
         to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed - particularly with known compounds which may potentiate the action of diazepam,
         such as phenothiazines, narcotics, barbiturates, MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants. The usual precautions are indicated
         for severely depressed patients or those in whom there is any evidence of latent depression; particularly the recognition
         that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary. The usual precautions in treating patients
         with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed. In elderly and debilitated patients, it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude
         the development of ataxia or oversedation (2 mg to 2½ mg once or twice daily, initially, to be increased gradually as needed
         and tolerated). The clearance of diazepam and certain other benzodiazepines can be delayed in association with cimetidine administration.
         The clinical significance of this is unclear. Information for Patients To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines, patients should be informed that, since benzodiazepines may produce
         psychological and physical dependence, it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the
         dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established. ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects most commonly reported were drowsiness, fatigue and ataxia. Infrequently encountered were confusion, constipation,
         depression, diplopia, dysarthria, headache, hypotension, incontinence, jaundice, changes in libido, nausea, changes in salivation,
         skin rash, slurred speech, tremor, urinary retention, vertigo and blurred vision. Paradoxical reactions such as acute hyperexcited
         states, anxiety, hallucinations, increased muscle spasticity, insomnia, rage, sleep disturbances and stimulation have been
         reported; should these occur, use of the drug should be discontinued. Because of isolated reports of neutropenia and jaundice, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable during
         long-term therapy. Minor changes in EEG patterns, usually low-voltage fast activity, have been observed in patients during
         and after diazepam therapy and are of no known significance. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Withdrawal symptoms, similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol (convulsions, tremor, abdominal and
         muscle cramps, vomiting and sweating), have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of diazepam. The more severe withdrawal
         symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who received excessive doses over an extended period of time. Generally
         milder withdrawal symptoms (e.g., dysphoria and insomnia) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines
         taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months. Consequently, after extended therapy, abrupt discontinuation
         should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed. Addiction-prone individuals (such as drug addicts
         or alcoholics) should be under careful surveillance when receiving diazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition
         of such patients to habituation and dependence. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs
         of most patients, there will be some who may require higher doses. In such cases dosage should be increased cautiously to
         avoid adverse effects. ADULTS/USUAL DAILY DOSE Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety: Depending upon severity of symptoms-2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily. Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal: 10 mg, 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours, reducing to 5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm: 2 mg to 10 mg, 3 or 4 times daily. Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders: 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily. Geriatric Patients, or in the Presence of Debilitating Disease: 2 mg to 2 1/2 mg, 1 or 2 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS/USUAL DAILY DOSE Because of varied responses to CNS-acting drugs, initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required. Not for use in
         pediatric patients under 6 months—1 mg to 2 1/2 mg, 3 or 4 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated. HOW SUPPLIED Diazepam Tablets, USP are available containing 2 mg, 5 mg or 10 mg of Diazepam, USP. The 2 mg tablets are white, round, scored tablets debossed with MYLAN over 271 on one side and the other side being scored. They are available as follows: NDC 0378-0271-01 bottles of 100 tablets NDC 0378-0271-05 bottles of 500 tablets The 5 mg tablets are orange, round, scored tablets debossed with MYLAN over 345 on one side and the other side being scored. They are available as follows: NDC 0378-0345-01 bottles of 100 tablets NDC 0378-0345-05 bottles of 500 tablets The 10 mg tablets are green, round, scored tablets debossed with MYLAN over 477 on one side and the other side being scored. They are available as follows: NDC 0378-0477-01 bottles of 100 tablets NDC 0378-0477-05 bottles of 500 tablets STORE AT CONTROLLED ROOM TEMPERATURE 15°–30°C (59°–86°F). PROTECT FROM LIGHT. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container using a child-resistant closure. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Morgantown, WV 26505 MAY 2002 DPM:R12 DIAZEPAM diazepam 
                     				tablet Product Information Product Type HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG NDC Product Code (Source) 0378-0271 Route of Administration ORAL DEA Schedule CIV INGREDIENTS Name (Active Moiety) Type Strength Diazepam (Diazepam) Active 2 MILLIGRAM  In 1 TABLET colloidal silicon dioxide Inactive magnesium stearate Inactive microcrystalline cellulose Inactive pregelatinized starch Inactive sodium lauryl sulfate Inactive Product Characteristics Color WHITE Score 2 pieces Shape ROUND Size 8mm Flavor Imprint Code MYLAN;271 Contains Coating false Symbol false Packaging # NDC Package Description Multilevel Packaging 1 0378-0271-01 100 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 2 0378-0271-05 500 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None DIAZEPAM diazepam 
                     				tablet Product Information Product Type HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG NDC Product Code (Source) 0378-0345 Route of Administration ORAL DEA Schedule CIV INGREDIENTS Name (Active Moiety) Type Strength Diazepam (Diazepam) Active 5 MILLIGRAM  In 1 TABLET colloidal silicon dioxide Inactive magnesium stearate Inactive microcrystalline cellulose Inactive pregelatinized starch Inactive sodium lauryl sulfate Inactive FD&C Yellow #6 Inactive Product Characteristics Color ORANGE Score 2 pieces Shape ROUND Size 8mm Flavor Imprint Code MYLAN;345 Contains Coating false Symbol false Packaging # NDC Package Description Multilevel Packaging 1 0378-0345-01 100 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 2 0378-0345-05 500 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None DIAZEPAM diazepam 
                     				tablet Product Information Product Type HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG NDC Product Code (Source) 0378-0477 Route of Administration ORAL DEA Schedule CIV INGREDIENTS Name (Active Moiety) Type Strength Diazepam (Diazepam) Active 10 MILLIGRAM  In 1 TABLET colloidal silicon dioxide Inactive magnesium stearate Inactive microcrystalline cellulose Inactive pregelatinized starch Inactive sodium lauryl sulfate Inactive FD&C Blue #1 Inactive D&C Yellow #10 Inactive Product Characteristics Color GREEN Score 2 pieces Shape ROUND Size 8mm Flavor Imprint Code MYLAN;477 Contains Coating false Symbol false Packaging # NDC Package Description Multilevel Packaging 1 0378-0477-01 100 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 2 0378-0477-05 500 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None Revised: 11/2006 Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Diazepam Ingredients Diazepam Diazepam - Malaise Outcomes Recovered without sequelae - 7 Reported Cases Not yet recovered - 3 Reported Cases Unknown - 2 Reported Cases - 1 Reported Cases Diazepam - Malaise Involvements Concomitant - 12 Reported Cases Treatment - 1 Reported Cases Other Reactions Reported While Taking Diazepam Diazepam Uses DIAZEPAM - ORAL (Valium) side effects, medical uses, and drug ... USES : Diazepam is used to treat anxiety, acute alcohol withdrawal, and seizures. Prescription Drugs A comprehensive list of prescription drugs, their uses , dosages and possible side effects Muscle Relaxers - Skeletal Muscle Relaxants - Uses - Side Effects Information on the indications and side effects of medications known as skeletal muscle relaxants (SMR's) and drugs often called muscle relaxers. Muscle relaxants help relax muscles, ease ... benzo diazepam, uses of diazepam, diazapam, diazepam 5mg effects, ... The uses of diazepam ... Multiple sclerosis Visit the link for details. General Information on Diazepam related to Malaise Diazepam medication, high quality pharmaceuticals ... entering to our professional pharmacy, cheap diazepam. Diazepam medication. ... the (about diazepam used for article) severe abdominal malaise during double ... Yogamates - Diazepam no prescription &gt;&gt; Talk A forum for the likeminded, yogamates.com brings yogis together to meet, exchange ideas, share services, buy yoga ... the malaise includes ideal ... Diazepam used for - Poem | Get More Poems at Quizilla Check out the Diazepam used for poem and create some creative poems of your own. ... removed with drugs or lives but were developed with malaise, diazepam used for. ... Side effects of diazepam - Poem | Get More Poems at Quizilla Check out the Side effects of diazepam poem and create some creative poems of your own. ... Side Effects Of Diazepam ... effects of diazepam: in 2005, kenseth ... Management of Withdrawal Syndromes and Relapse Prevention in Drug and ... Intense desire for drugs, muscle cramps, arthralgia, anxiety, nausea, vomiting, malaise ... The usual initial dosage of diazepam or lorazepam is titrated according to ... Diazepam Settlements Diazepam 10 mg usps online consultation - Poem | Get More Poems at Quizilla The malaise of nice is widely electrocuted as lympia tablet. ... consultation: other tests have been taken to have binding settlements on day. ... cocaine: Definition from Answers.com ... help the newly-arrived traveler overcome the malaise of high altitude sickness. ... sedation agent, such as diazepam (Valium) to decrease the elevated ... Malaria Prevention and Control - Pocket Guide settlements with infected inhabitants so as to be beyond normal flight ... moderate malaise, fatigue, muscle aches, back pain, headache, ... Cocaine - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ... help the newly-arrived traveler overcome the malaise of high altitude sickness. ... sedation agent, such as diazepam (Valium) to decrease the elevated ... Cocaine - Psychology Wiki ... help the newly-arrived traveler overcome the malaise of high altitude sickness. ... sedation agent, such as diazepam (Valium) to decrease the elevated ... Diazepam Interactions Capital Research Center: President Jimmy Carter, readers may recall, gave his infamous ?malaise? speech ... diazepam zolpidem purchase online, valium mg Xanax Time ambien canine interaction diazepam clysma? All Things Chill » Kicks I?m going to pick up some new kicks today - some ... with codeine chemical composition tylenol poison interaction ... hypertension baby zoloft and viagra cost of valium vs diazepam ... All Things Chill » Blog Archive » ZOMG Shippuuden!!! Larger desktop size (1280 x 1024) here. WOOP WOOP! ... and breastfeeding viagra information cipro and valium interaction ... hypertension baby zoloft and viagra cost of valium vs diazepam ... Drug interactions analysis of Viagra, L-arginine, Hydrochlorothiazide ... Blood Pressure Decreased: 2 (5.56%) Drug Interaction Nos: 2 (2.22%) Malaise: 2 (2.22 ... Hydrochlorothiazide, Glimepiride, Gabapentin, Albuterol, Diazepam, Aspirin drug interactions GD-086-PHS-EMS: Drug Profile for Ranitidine ... acute porphyria Adverse Reactions: CNS: Headache, vertigo, malaise ... NOTES ON ADMINISTRATION Incompatibilities/Drug Interactions: Diazepam: Decreases absorption of diazepam. Diazepam Recalls Metwest recalls diazepam 5mg - Chemist + Druggist Metwest recalls diazepam 5mg. Gavin Atkin. Metwest Pharmaceuticals has recalled a batch of diazepam 5mg tablets because some cartons have been found to contain diazepam 2mg. lipitor recall ... nightmares, and intrusive thoughts.22 Infrequent ADRs lipitor recall abdominal It's important to seek whether renal impairment or hyperkalaemia is present. Lipitor recall Diazepam as ... Recalls, product and drug alerts (UK market) | Metwest Pharmaceuticals ... PJ Online | 19 June 2008: Metwest Pharmaceuticals has recalled the following batch of diazepam tablets 5mg because some cartons have been found to contain diazepam tablets 2mg recall on lipitor Sodium bicarbonate - large recall on lipitor of diazepam mg & 10 mg; 5 mgml in intravenous, intramuscular or recall on lipitor usage For parenteral administration: Recall on lipitor ... www.pjonline.com Diazepam Side Effects Celestamine Side Effects, side effects to Celestamine, Celestamine on ... Celestamine Side Effects, side effects to Celestamine ... problems/side effects: hepatic function abnormal, malaise. ... the same period patient was treated with DEPAKENE, DIAZEPAM. Buspirone Buspar. Buspar side effects, warnings, precautions, adverse ... Buspar side effects, warnings, precautions, adverse effects ... improvement was observed in 2 of these trials with diazepam ... altered taste/smell, roaring sensation in head, malaise ... Lexapro side effects. Lexapro side effects, Lexapro side effect ... Lexapro side effects Malaise-The somewhat unclear feeling of discomfort you get when you start ... and Individual Side Effects Alprazolam, Xanax Ativan Clonazepam - Klonopin Diazepam ... Adverse effect - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Common adverse effects may be fever, malaise and ... Adverse effects can occur as a collateral or side effect of many interventions ... to many sedatives and analgesics such as diazepam, ... NEXIUM - A Staggering Number of Side Effects The doctor didn't say anything about any bad side effects? ... like disorder, generalized edema, leg edema, malaise ... However, at that time, the plasma levels of diazepam ... Malaise - Diazepam Remedies Causes of Syncope - WrongDiagnosis.com Lead poisoning -- Chinese Folk Remedies -- Ba Bow Sen - dizziness Lead poisoning -- Asian Folk Remedies -- Ghasard - dizziness Lead poisoning -- African Folk Remedies -- Surma ... Black Cohosh ... was used in North American Indian medicine for malaise, ... daily) with conjugated estrogens (0.6 mg/day) or diazepam (2 ... Clouston A, Kerlin P: Black cohosh and other herbal remedies ... Causes of Reflux - WrongDiagnosis.com ... because many people with GERD take over-the-counter remedies ... and propantheline), and other drugs (morphine, diazepam, and ... phase produces moderate to severe dyspepsia, fever, malaise ... All Things Chill » Blog Archive » ZOMG Shippuuden!!! ... can valium treat tension headache oxycodone no tylenol viagra price comparison viagra secondary pulmonary hypertension baby zoloft and viagra cost of valium vs diazepam tylenol cod online ... NITROFURANTOIN. Nitrofurantoin. Be wary about using natural remedies. The broad-based nature o