<http://wp.me/pXs92-zU>; rel=shortlink

Hypnotherapy Sheffield smoking cessation group | www.hypnosis-sheffield.com www.hypnosis-sheffield.com Tim Wells hypnotherapist and N.L.P. Master Practitioner 01909-561706 Home page About Qualifications Blog Business How can I help? Web site design Downloads Checkout Transaction Results Your Account Therapies Astral travel Coincidences Dreams Hypnotherapy History of hypnotism Typical session Mind machines N.L.P. Past life regression Subliminal What can I help with? Anger management Bereavement Birthing Drink moderately Driving confidence Fear of flying High blood pressure IBS Insomnia Memory improvement Migraine Pain control Phobia cure Dentist Quit smoking Regain hair Relationships Sexual problems. Sports performance Stage fright Stress Management Weight loss Recommendations Anxiety Bad panic attacks Confidence Insomnia Low self esteem M.E. Migraine relief Obsessive Operation Panic attacks Panic attacks Presentation Youtube Prices mp3_downloads Contact me Blog talk radio Stop smoking group Weight loss group Sales courses Privacy Policy Wealth creation Q&A Link exchange Alternative products Beauty Business Counselling Dance Education Fitness Health Stopping smoking Weight loss Local web sites links2 Medical Medium Mind body and spirit events. Reike & massage « Hypnotherapy Sheffield weight loss class starting in the New Year Hypnotherapy Sheffield New Years resolution » Hypnotherapy Sheffield smoking cessation group December 21st, 2010 | Author: admin Would you like to stop smoking this year using Hypnotherapy? I am a Hypnotherapist based in the South East of Sheffield, I am looking for opportunities to set up smoking cessation groups anywhere around Sheffield and South Yorkshire.  I can either run one from your house or arrange to book a local hall near you. Have you tried everything to quit smoking and failed so far? Hypnotherapy helps you to release repressed feelings and memories from your past, that maybe causing you to smoke.  Perhaps when you first chose to smoke, that decision is stuck somewhere in your subconscious mind.  By relaxing these feelings can be released from your subconscious mind and you can face these old memories with a wiser older head on your shoulders and put them to sleep.  You may have tried many times in the past to stop smoking and built up a negative pattern of belief around it. Hypnotherapy group support. stop smoking As well as having the benefit of help through Hypnotherapy, you will be around like minded people who have the same goal, which should make it easier for you to push forward, with the support you will recieve from me and other people.   You may struggle to be around some old friends that prefer to smoke and need to find a new social network and the group will help you to do that. Tailor made Hypnotherapy sessions for stopping smoking. Each week we will find out why people maybe struggling with stopping smoking and where people are succeeding in reducing their smoking.  I will then tailor make the Hypnotherapy session for the group. Free tailor made Hypnotherapy Mp3 download. Each week the half an hour Hypnotherapy session will be recorded, I will add it to my web site and you will be able to download it.  I would recommend listening to the recording daily, if you wish to accelerate your stopping smoking. Hypnotherapy will help you to become more relaxed, so that you no longer feel stressed out and want to smoke. I will show you how to relax deeply, guide you through a number of visualisation sessions and teach you how to breathe correctly.   I will also suggest a number of positive suggestions into your sub conscious mind, that will help you to change your behaviours and beliefs and become a healthy non smoker. Hypnotherapy will help you to become a more healthy person. The quicker you stop smoking, the sooner your body can recover from any damage it has received in the past.  Within 12 months of smoking, your body will have repaired nearly all the damage from the past, but the longer you carry on smoking, the greater your health will deteriorate.  However I do recommend taking your time to reduce you smoking, so that you don’t take on an alternative behaviour, like over eating, that can cause other problems. Let Hypnotherapy help you get to the root cause of why you smoked. There are some alternate products to help you stop smoking, however they are quite expensive and could cause a different addiction.   Deal with the real reason why you are currently smoking and give up for life. Please contact me if I can assist you to stop smoking and you wish to join a smoking cessation group near you. Please try a free Hypnotherapy Mp3 download recording on the home page of my web site www.hypnosis-sheffield.com If there are any other groups I can set up in the Sheffield and South Yorkshire area to help you achieve your new years resolution for good, I would like to hear from you. Please try a free Hypnotherapy MP3 download by clicking under the links at the top right hand side of the page.  Full length Hypnotherapy downloads can be purchased on the download page.  Downloads only cost £11 and include free email support.  Only purchase a download, if you are willing to find time daily to listen to. Until next time think positive. Best regards Tim Tim Wells Hypnotherapist and Neuro Linguistic Programming (N.L.P.) master practitioner, who is based in close proximity to Sheffield,  can be contacted on (0044) 01909 561706 or via tim@hypnosis-sheffield.com if he can assist you further using NLP and Hypnotherapy techniques.  One to one, group work or Mp3 downloads for specific outcomes are catered for.  Courses and workshops can be provided to businesses and organisations in Sheffield, South Yorkshire, North Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Lancashire, East Yorkshire, Mersey Side, Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire, Humberside, Lincolnshire, Essex, Cornwall, Wessex, London etc.  Courses and workshops can be conducted on stress management, weight management, stopping smoking, phobia elimination, confidence boosting, sales skills etc.   Home visits can be made to physically challenged individuals or groups of people with the same goals in the Sheffield and South Yorkshire area.   He can work remotely through Skype and provide you with a tailor made recording via a download link. Tim Wells Hypnotherapist and NLP master practitioner, 43a Nursery Crescent, North Anston, Sheffield, S25 4BQ, South Yorkshire, England, U.K., European Union. Posted in Hypnotherapy , Nlp | Tags: cessation , help , hypnosis , hypnotherapist , hypnotherapy , hypnotist , lessen , nlp , quit , quitting , reduce , sheffield , smoke , smoking , stop , stopping « Hypnotherapy Sheffield weight loss class starting in the New Year Hypnotherapy Sheffield New Years resolution » Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Submit Comment Notify me of followup comments via e-mail Notify me of new posts by email. My links Free relaxation session. My Mp3 Downloads Shopping Cart Loading... Subscribe Name: Email: Newsletter Manager courtesy of FreeFollowUp.biz . Twitter Why choose me for Hypnotherapy and NLP in Sheffield? http://t.co/InJnZ0lw via @ AddThis 4 hours ago Please donate Google add Search for: Search Archives January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 Contact Us | Terms of Use | Trademarks | Privacy Statement Copyright © 2009 www.hypnosis-sheffield.com. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress and WordPress Theme created 