
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 02 Apr 2012 02:02:13 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Orthotics and Your Feet - Medicine Medicine Information Orthotics and Your Feet Orthotics are devices which fit into the shoe to aid the foot. "Functional orthotics" are rigid and designed to control motion and correct the function of the foot. Individuals with flatfeet, tendonitis, plantar fasciitis, certain foot deformities, knee, hip and back problems may benefit from functional orthotics.  "Accommodative orthotics" are soft and designed to reduce pressure and prevent excess friction. Diabetics and those with a loss of sensation or circulation in their feet will benefit from accommodative orthotics. Both types of orthotics are custom made by taking a mold of the foot. Functional Orthotics The goal of the functional orthotic is to improve the mechanics of the foot, control the abnormal motion in the foot, decrease the pain in the foot, ankle, knee, hip or back and to add support. The orthotic should make standing, walking, jogging or running more comfortable. The orthotic must be rigid to help control the motion in the foot and add support. If the orthotic is soft, the weight of the body would collapse the device and it would no longer function. Abnormal motion is typically in the form of pronation. Pronation is the rolling in of the foot and collapse of the arch. The motion starts at the rearfoot, or heel area. When the heel turns in, it allows the arch to collapse. This puts undue stress on the ligaments and tendons in the arch area and contributes to the development of tendonitis, plantar fasciitis, bunions and hammertoes. The functional orthotic helps to control the abnormal motion in the rearfoot. This is accomplished by taking a mold of the foot in its neutral position. The neutral position is the position the foot should be in when walking. When standing, the over-pronated foot is in the uncorrected position. The mold of the foot should be taken with the patient sitting so the foot can be placed in the neutral position. The molds are sent to a lab and scanned into a computer. A reverse image is produced and the computer generates an image of the foot in neutral position. The computer adjusts the image based on the corrections recommended by your podiatrist. A model of the foot is then cut out, in some cases out of wood. The orthotic material is pressed over the foot model and the orthotic is created. The most common material is polypropylene, but other materials, such as graphite are used. In some cases, hand-made molds are created out of plaster. This was the classic way orthotics were made until newer technology made the process much less labor intensive. Functional orthotics are a successful treatment for many problems affecting the lower extremity. In a recent article in the Journal of the American Podiatric Medical Association, 75% of patients surveyed had good to excellent results from functional orthotics. This includes 17% who felt the orthotics "cured" their pain. Less than 10% had no relief. The most commonly treated condition in the study was a painful heel. Over 20% of patients surveyed were treated for a painful heel and 20% were treated for a painful arch. Fourteen percent of the individuals were using orthotics for flatfeet. Other conditions treated with orthotics were knee, hip and back pain, foot arthritis, bunions and high arches. Tendonitis was not specifically evaluated. Individuals with plantar fasciitis (heel and arch pain) who also have flatfeet usually respond best to orthotics. The plantar fascia is a ligament type structure on the bottom of the foot which helps to hold up the arch. When the foot collapses, the weight of the body stresses the ligament and results in tearing and inflammation. This results in plantar fasciitis. These individuals typically respond well to orthotics in combination with other treatments. Certain types of tendonitis respond well to orthotics and other types require orthotics. Posterior tibial tendonitis is the tearing and inflammation of the tendon that helps to hold up the arch. When this tendon is overstressed by arch collapse it cannot heal. Orthotics are essential in the treatment of this condition. Individuals with high arches may require orthotics as well, but they do not respond as well. Orthotics can help slow the progression of bunions and hammertoes, but they will not prevent this process. Orthotics may help with some pain at a bunion, but they will not "cure" the bunion. When the motion in the foot is contributing to the problem, orthotics are generally recommended. If the foot is stable and does not require support, the bunion, hammertoe, neuroma, tendonitis or even plantar fasciitis may not require custom made orthotics for treatment. These individuals may do well with a pre-fabricated orthotic. Accommodative Orthotics Diabetics can develop numbness and loss of circulation in the feet. This numbness and circulation loss puts them at risk for developing open sores on the feet called ulcerations. To help prevent excess rub and friction in certain areas on the feet, accommodative orthotics are recommended. Diabetics who do not have numbness or circulation loss (as diagnosed by their doctor) do not need to have accommodative orthotics. If the foot has a deformity, like a bunion or hammertoe, then accommodative orthotics are necessary. Accommodative orthotics are made from many different types of material. Some are made of a foam type material, others made from cork and others have covers ranging from soft spongy material to leather. The type of material depends on the type of foot. Many accommodative orthotics, made for diabetics, have two or more layers that form around the foot once they are worn. Three pairs are dispensed every year and they are replaced every 4 months. Other materials are longer lasting. A mold of the foot is taken by stepping into a foam box. In this case, it is important to take the mold standing, so that the orthotic can be made to form around the foot. The Cost Many insurance companies cover orthotics for certain diagnoses. The most commonly covered diagnoses are plantar fasciitis (heel and arch pain), flatfeet and diabetes. Many insurance companies cover the orthotics at 80%. This means the patient is responsible for 20% of the cost unless they have a secondary insurance. If the deductible has not been met, then the amount is applied to the deductible and the patient must pay the full amount. Orthotics are not cheap. They range from $250 to $600. Medicare covers orthotics for diabetics with neuropathy (numbness of the feet). Medicare does not cover orthotics for any other type of foot problem. Secondary insurance will not cover orthotics if Medicare does not cover them. Podiatrists most commonly prescribe orthotics, but pedorthotists, orthotists, physical therapists and sometimes orthopedists will also provide orthotics. Christine Dobrowolski is a podiatrist and the author of Those Aching Feet: Your Guide to Diagnosis and Treatment of Common Foot Problems. To learn more about Dr. Dobrowolski and her book visit http://www.skipublishing.com. For more information on prefabricated orthotics visit http://www.northcoastfootcare.com. RELATED ARTICLES Cold-Eeze Side Effects Lawyer: Zinc Destroys Sense of Smell! Cold-Eeze is a homeopathic solution to the common cold. It is a zinc-based solution that can be taken as a tablet or a nasal spray. Limited studies have found that the nasal spray reduces the duration of the common cold to less than three days, down from an average nine days. These amazing results have lead thousands of Americans to try this new medication, with terrible results. How To Save Money On Prescription Medications If you are a regular user of prescription medications, you know that these drugs can be costly to purchase. Cutting back on drugs can be dangerous to your health, but if you are on a fixed income your choices can seem limited. Let's look at some cost effective ways for you to slash your prescription costs. Considerations in Distance Education for the Medical Assistant Instructor Medical Assistant distance education is emerging to meet the demands of a new generation of students in the twenty first century.  St. Augustine Medical Assistant School distance education program for medical assistant presents a good model for this integration of technology with medical assistant education. Distance education, particularly in its most recent form, online education,  is being integrated into even the most cautious and conservative of educational institutions. Yet the impact of these alternative forms of teaching and learning on students, faculty, and institutions has yet to be broadly or deeply studied. New models such as that at St. Augustine Medical Assistant School are immerging. St. Augustine Medical Assistant School is available at: www.medicalassistant.us Vioxx Personal Injury Lawsuits Personal injury attorneys representing clients who have allegedly been harmed by the prescription drug Vioxx are congratulating themselves over a historic judgment rendered recently. On August 19, 2005, a judge awarded the family of Bob Ernst $253.4 million due to his death from the drug. Vioxx, which had been prescribed most often for arthritis pain, was withdrawn globally by its maker, Merck, after research trials showed it increased patients' chances of a heart attack. Although Merck pulled the drug off the market in September 2004, legal action against this leading pharmaceutical giant will continue and expand. Let's take a look at why Vioxx has become a litigation lightning rod. ?Ooohhh? my aching knee!!!?  Insider Secrets on How You Can Get Relief Quickly and Easily! When your knee hurts, getting relief is all that's on your mind.  Getting the right relief, though, depends on knowing what's wrong.  The correct diagnosis will lead to the correct treatment. The Right Stethoscope For Your Needs! Just about all health care providers have need of stethoscopes. Whether you're a nurse, respiratory therapist or a medical doctor, the need to auscultate the chest, lungs and heart is a necessary and important part of your work. In deciding from the many stethoscopes to choose from it's important to keep in mind what you'll be using your stethoscope for. For general purpose listening, stethoscopes are excellent tools and come at a very good price. How to Remove the Psychological Addiction to Smoking - and Start to ENJOY Giving Up Smoking! Consider this: Bextra Recall: Lawyer Says Help Is On The Way By now, you have probably heard of the prescription drug Bextra.  You may not know, however, why that a recall is in order.  The reason is quite simple.  The FDA has asked Pfizer to withdraw Bextra from the market because of increased risks of heart attack and stroke. Bextra and Vioxx  -- Tips for Arthritis Relief Without Them The recent withdrawal of Vioxx and Bextra from the marketplace, due to concerns over unwanted side effects, has many arthritis sufferers concerned.   These drugs, which belong to a powerful class of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs known as COX-2 inhibitors, are quite effective at fighting the pain and inflammation of arthritis.  Unfortunately, they have been linked to increased risk of strokes and heart attacks.  Their manufacturers have voluntarily withdrawn them from the market. Chronic Headaches and Pain Often Can Be Eliminated By A Special Dentist DENVER ? Sometimes as Freud once said a good cigar is just a smoke.  A headache, on the other hand, occasionally can be a sign of something much more serious than just a headache. Molluscum Contagiosum Virus (MCV) Treatment Information -  But First, What Is Molluscum? Molluscum contagiosum treatment is certainly possible with the correct treatment information. Rheumatoid Arthritis : the time bomb The beginning is very much hard to spot as we migh just wake up in the morning and feel that the fingers on our hand do not function as they should. A little of bit of movement and everything is fine. However, this morning exercise keeps prolonging as we get to a point where the exercise lasts for the whole day and the joints begin to ache. The walk is not a pleasure anymore and we are not able to hold a cup of coffee without shaking it out. What Not to Tell Your Doctor? For many years since medicine has been established as anethical profession and gained widespread credence peoplehave believed that they could and should tell their doctoreverything even remotely pertinent to their health and thatit was held in the strictest confidence. Furthermore, howcan the physician make accurate judgments when important orsignificant information is missing? This system worked verywell until relatively recently but there now exists a breachof this confidence that people should know about and thisbreach has developed from the advent of third partyinvestigations into people's backgrounds. Your medicalrecords are no longer confidential because you are forced toreveal them. Let us look at some scenarios. VIOXX Lawsuits Vioxx is a prescription medication that has been used primarily in the treatment of signs and symptoms of arthritis, but has also been prescribed to treat acute pain in adults and menstrual pain in women. It is a Cox-2 selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug or NSAID. Other Cox -2 selective NSAIDs on the market are Celebrex and Bextra. Vioxx is also related to nonselective NSAIDs such as ibuprofen and naproxen. Treating Neuromas - Ten Tips A neuroma is an inflamed nerve. In the foot, the most common place for a neuroma is between the third and fourth toes. The main nerve to your foot originates in the spine and travels down the back of the leg to the bottom of the foot and out to the toes. When the nerve becomes irritated, electrical or burning pain shoots out to the toes when walking. The second, third and fourth toes can become numb. There can be a sensation of walking on a lamp cord or a lump. Removing the shoe and massaging the ball of the foot can bring relief. Bextra and Vioxx  -- Alternative Medications Have Warnings, Too At the urging of the Food and Drug Administration, the drugs Vioxx and Bextra have both been voluntarily withdrawn from the market by their manufacturers.  Studies show that these drugs, part of a family of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) known as COX-2 inhibitors, may be linked to increased chances of heart attack or stroke. Naturopathic Medicine Naturopathic Medicine is an holistic approach that relies on natural remedies. Sunlight, air, and water are thought of as natural healers; this, along with nutritional supplements and massage therapies are all part of naturopathic medicine. Three Questions People Are Asking About Health Care in America Q.	Why is there so may uninsured people in America? Chinese Medicine Chinese Medicine, over 2000 years old, is an ancient form of medicine. Consisting of acupuncture, moxibustion (moxibustion - using material made up of "moxa-wool," in a form of a cone or stick; moxibustion is used to treat and prevent disease by applying heat to pints or certain locations of the human body), herbal medicine, acupressure, cupping, therapeutic exercise and nutrition, traditional Chinese medicine is notated by its principle of internal balance and harmony, or "chi," (life force) regulation through energy channels. Another Cold Sore! Why Me? An estimated 85 million Americans have acquired the herpessimplex (cold sore) virus.  And the majority had received thevirus before the age of 3.