
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 02:11:51 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.weispediatricdentistry.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Preventive Services | Weis Pediatric Dentistry Weis Pediatric Dentistry Home Welcome Why A Pediatric Dentist? Latest Technology Services Our Services Preventive Care Check Ups Brushing & Flossing Cavity Prevention Gum Disease Infant Care Sealants Appliances Orthodontics Restorative Care Sedation Special Needs Dentistry Emergencies The Team The Team Meet Dr. Weis Meet Dr. Murthy Meet Dr. Meise Appointment Make an Appointment For Parents For Parents Request an Appointment Patient Accounts Your Visit Scheduling Office Policies Insurance & Payment Information Refer a Friend For Patients Patient Spotlight Tooth Fairy The Weis Scholarship BLOG Raves Raves 2 Raves 3 Raves 4 Contact Contact Us Directions Request an Appointment Join our Team Employment Application Preventive Services A comprehensive exam includes a soft tissue examination of head and neck, an evaluation of the gum tissue and discussion of oral hygiene effectiveness, an examination of the bite to detect current or future orthodontic problems and a caries (cavities) examination. Drs Weis and Murthy use both visual and radiographic examinations to locate areas of decay on chewing surfaces and between the teeth, and to monitor your child’s dental growth and development. Sealants: A sealant is a plastic material, which is applied to the chewing surface of back teeth.  The material is flowed into the pits and grooves of the teeth, where they will act as a barrier that protects teeth from plaques and acid. Sealants significantly reduce the risk of cavities and decay to the chewing surface. The teeth, with the highest risk, for decay are the six-year and twelve-year molars. The sealants flow into the grooves and fissures of the teeth and once attached, they can help to displace trapped material.  Often times, sealants are placed on baby or primary teeth, if they show any signs of vulnerability. Fluoride Treatment: Fluoride is a mineral that is naturally present in many different foods and almost all water supplies. Fluoride is also used in many dental products such as toothpaste and mouth rinses. Fluoride works in two ways: topically and systemically. Topical fluorides strengthen teeth that have already grown into the mouth. As the teeth already present in the mouth are exposed to the fluoride, this is incorporated into the outer surface of the tooth, making them more resistant to decay. Children should be receiving fluoride treatments every six months, as this is one of the most effective ways of providing the benefits of topical fluoride. Additionally, depending on your child’s risk for decay and decay activity, Dr’s Weis and Murthy may prescribe a fluoride product to use at home. Systemic fluorides are those that are ingested through food and water, and are used by the body as teeth are formed. The need for dietary fluoride supplements for the child will be determined by water supply in the child’s home. Mouthguards: Custom-made mouthguards for sports activities offer comfort and communication not found in “boil and bite” commercial guards. We offer two types of guards, selected on the basis of your child’s age and level of sport intensity.  For both guards we take an impression of your child’s mouth, and then custom make them in the laboratory. A variety of wonderful colors are available. Contact Us Address: 5915 High Street West Portsmouth , VA 23703 Phone: 757.484.8262 Fax: 757.638.3632 Email: info@weisteeth.com Parent Links Appointment Request Contact & Directions Meet Dr. Weis Patient Accounts Start early It’s important to care for your child’s teeth early in life. The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry encourages parents to “Get it Done in Year One.” More than 1 in 4 children in the United States have cavities by the time they are 4 years old, sometimes as early as age 2. Free Year one Visit Contact Address: 5915 High Street West Portsmouth , VA 23703 Phone: 757.484.8262 Fax: 757.638.3632 Email: info@weisteeth.com Quick Links Appointment Request Contact & Directions Meet Dr. Weis Our Team Patient Testimonials Referring Doctors Welcome to Weis Pediatric Dentistry While our website can give you a sense of our philosophy, office environment and services, nothing can replace a visit to our new office.  Call for an appointment or stop in for a visit, come see what parents are talking about! Request an appointment online! From The Blog Great Holiday Websites for Kids! Paying it Forward this Holiday Season: Local Pediatric Dentist Travels to Nicaragua to Help Orphans The Importance of Being Protected Do we need to fix it? The Scoop on Fluoride Copyright © 2012 · All Rights Reserved · Weis Pediatric Dentistry 5915 High Street West, Portsmouth, VA 23703, Phone: 757.484.8262, Fax: 757.638.3632 · We offer our pediatric dental services to residents living in and around the following Virginia locations: Hampton Roads, Tidewater, Suffolk, Southside, Churchland, Western Branch, Portsmouth, Chesapeake, Norfolk