
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 22:37:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Cache-Control: no-cache
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Survivall Revive About About FGB History Sponsorship Environment Employment Natural Products Natural Uses Testimonials Facilities Commercial Oil Export Media Schools Search FGB Natural Products Home Contact Us Links Where to Buy Special Features Quickly absorbed Carefully balanced formula for energy and rehydration Contains glucose, electrolytes and vitamins Appetising fruit flavour to encourage consumption Scientifically formulated nutritional food supplement Revive is a nutritional food supplement scientifically formulated to assist in the treatment and prevention of dehydration symptoms, essential in maintaining good health. Revive delivers a carefully balanced combination of glucose, essential electrolytes and vitamins which can be quickly absorbed. It is especially useful and effective for those who have difficulty keeping down food or drink during periods of illness, dehydration or after an operation. The delicious apple flavour encourages consumption - quickly providing energy, rehydration and a feeling of wellbeing. When recovering from illness or dehydration, Revive can assist in maintaining a healthy body weight, relaxing mental and muscle stress and preventing or relieving night cramps. Revive is also recommend for use during palliative care to maintain adequate hydration levels and to help control and manage symptoms such as nausea, vomiting or pain. Revive provides the daily glucose requirement which is essential for life maintenance. We get most of our glucose from digesting the sugar and starch in carbohydrates. For those who have difficulty keeping down food or drink, Revive can substitute for carbohydrate foods such as rice, pasta, grain, fruits, vegetables and processed sweets. Revive also contains vitamins that are essential for glucose metabolism which gives the body energy to sustain life. The B vitamins are important in metabolic activity; this group of vitamins is also involved in making red blood cells, which carry oxygen throughout your body. The vitamin C is important for keeping body tissues, such as gums and muscles in good shape. It also helps your body resist infection. Revive contains body salts (electrolytes), a major component within our body fluid system, which carries nutrients and oxygen to various organs to maintain life. Electrolytes maintain the body’s osmotic pressure and dispose of the body waste by generating urine. The Revive formulation helps to avoid cramping by incorporating two natural buffering systems which help the body to maintain its natural acidity / alkalinity (pH) levels. Benefits of Revive Balanced electrolyte formula to replace electrolytes lost due to fluid loss or dehydration High in glucose for more energy, less fatigue Buffering systems to help avoid cramping Vitamins to help convert glucose into energy Natural nutritional formula No stimulants, artificial sweeteners or colours Refreshing apple flavour encourages consumption Testimonials "Suffering from debilitating tiredness that accompanies rheumatoid arthritis, I started drinking Revive at the beginning of 2009. Revive has been a great help in keeping my energy levels up throughout the day and assists my body to flush out the toxic effects of the medication I need to take control the arthritis." JP, Melbourne, Australia Revive is recommended for: Fluid loss and dehydration Revive contains the scientific duplication of essential mineral body salts (electrolytes) to replace those lost due to fluid loss or dehydration. Water is not enough to maintain hydration because it does not mimic body fluids. Replacing mineral body salts (electrolytes) is essential as electrolytes cannot be made by the body. The loss of electrolytes may be a result of stomach upsets, heavy sweating caused by extreme heat or strenuous exercise or from excessive alcohol. Fluid loss and dehydration can affect co-ordination, short term memory and concentration, health and well-being. Recovery from illness Revive has been specially formulated to meet the additional nutritional requirements of those recovering from the stress of surgery or hospitalisation. After surgery or hospitalisation the nutritional requirements of patients increases while their food intake usually decreases. Revive is especially beneficial for those who have difficulty keeping food or drink down. The refreshing apple flavour encourages consumption - Revive is quickly absorbed to restore hydration, energy and feeling of well-being. Helps avoid cramping Revive contains the natural buffering systems to avoid the build-up of lactic acid caused by an imbalance of electrolytes which is the principal cause of night muscle cramps. More energy, less fatigue Revive contains a high level of pure glucose. Pure glucose is rapidly absorbed to provide instant physical and mental energy. As glucose is easier for the body to assimilate than other forms of carbohydrate, glucose sustains activity better thereby lessening fatigue. Important vitamins Revive contains important B group vitamins and vitamin C. B group vitamins play an important role in stress management and contributing to emotional and physical well-being. They are involved in making red blood cells which carry oxygen throughout the body. Vitamin C is essential for a healthy diet as well as being a highly effective antioxidant. It is important for keeping body tissues such as muscles in good shape. Nutritional Information Serving Size: 250mL Servings per pack: 30 250mL 100mL Energy 488kj(116 Cal) 195kj(47 Cal) Protein 0g 0g Fat Total 0g 0g Saturated 0g 0g Carbohydrates Total 29g 11.6g Sugars 29g 11.6g Vitamin C 20mg(50% RDI) 8mg Vitamin B3 5mg(50% RDI) 2mg Vitamin B6 0.5mg(31% RDI) 0.2mg Vitamin B12 1mcg(50 RDI) 0.4mcg Magnesium 32mg(10% RDI) 12.8mg Phosphorous 100mg(10% RDI) 40mg Potassium 120mg (3.1mmol) 48mg Sodium 90mg (3.9mmol) 36mg Ingredients Glucose, citric acid, sodium phosphates, potassium chloride, magnesium sulphate, sodium citrate, vitamins B3, B6, B12 & C, apple flavour. Not suitable for diabetics, children under 15 years or pregnant women. Use only as directed with a nutritious diet. Does not contain stimulants, artificial colours or sweeteners or preservatives. More Competitions! Competition Winners! Follow @Bosistos Home Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Find us on Facebook ©Copyright Felton Grimwad