
Avoiding Big Dental Costs - Dental Financing Information Avoiding Big Dental Costs Whoever warned against being "penny wise and pound foolish" must have been thinking of times like these. When the economy is just limping along (and dollars are tight at home) it's natural to look for ways to cut down on unnecessary expenses. Too often, cutting back on today's unnecessary expense leads to far greater costs just a ways down the road. And that's especially true of dental care. Of course, your dental practitioner recognizes that every household economy goes through its own ups and downs. But they also believe that maintaining a high level of health is the cheapest form of insurance. So they'll work with you to get the dental care you need - when you need it. When you wait too long, a lot can happen. Gum problems don't hurt at first, so you may not even know you have disease lurking. And periodontitis can flare up despite conscientious home hygiene. Old fillings can leak at the margins where filling and tooth meet, inviting decay under a filling. If you let it go, it's crown time. A fractured tooth is often invisible and may require a root canal to save it. Waiting for it to heal usually results in dental bridges. If you're missing a tooth, your neighboring teeth will grow disrupted and loose. Topical fluorides and sealants are a good idea for children - even adults. Early orthodontics can save you a bundle later on. Another wise philosopher pointed out, "There's a time in the life of every problem when it's large enough to see...and small enough to solve." By catching dental problems before they grow, you'll be spared both money and discomfort. « Back to Dental Information Center Call For An Appointment Now! (508) 746-4033 General Info: (508) 746-4033 The Flash 6 plugin or higher is required to view content on this page, but was not detected on your browser. First name: Email: Postal code: Subscribe to our newsletter? Our email policy - We promise never to sell, barter or rent your email address to any unauthorized party. Share | E Morgan Scheiber DMD PC Appointments: (508) 746-4033 Dr. E Morgan Scheiber Dr Stuart Bernstein E Morgan Scheiber DMD PC 1 Scobee Cir Suite 2A Plymouth , MA 02360 General Info: work (508) 746-4033 Don't Forget to Floss! Clean between teeth daily with floss or an interdental cleaner. Decay-causing bacteria can hid between teeth where toothbrush bristles can't reach. Flossing helps remove plaque and food particles from between teeth and under the gum line. Visit Our Office Regularly! Take good care of your smile. Remember to visit the dentist regularly for professional cleanings and oral exams. Mouthwash Is Important, Too! Brushing and flossing may not be enough. The ADA now recommends using an antimicrobial mouthwash to reduce plaque and prevent gingivitis. Appointment Links New Patients Recare/Recall About Us Convenient Financial Terms Dental Insurance Office Tour Tell a Friend Resources Newsletter Signup Post-Treatment Instructions Employment Opportunities HIPAA Policy Family Dentistry Plus Quality Care For ... Cosmetic Dentistry Sedation Dentistry Dental Implants © 2012, Internet Dental Alliance, Inc. All Rights Reserved - Privacy Policy - Terms of Use Plymouth Dentist | Dentist Plymouth | Plymouth Dentistry | Marshfield Dentist | Kingston Dentistry | Duxbury Dentist | Carver Dentistry | Plymouth County Dentist | sitemap E Morgan Scheiber DMD PC, 1 Scobee Cir Suite 2A, Plymouth, Massachusetts 02360 - (508) 746-4033 Dr. E Morgan Scheiber and Dr Stuart Bernstein The Flash 6 plugin or higher is required to view content on this page, but was not detected on your browser. Home Meet the Doctors