
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 02 May 2012 21:23:20 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Low Back Pain - Portsmouth Regional Hospital Skip to content Portsmouth Regional Hospital Average ER Wait Time Learn More Home Contact Us Careers Directions Follow Us: Search Site Search GO Hospital Services Hospital Services All Services Behavioral Health Services Bone & Joint Care-Orthopedics Cancer Care Diabetes & Endocrinology Emergency Care Health & Wellness Heart Care Hospitalist Care Integrative Care Intensive Care Unit Laboratory Maternity & Pregnancy Care Neurosciences Occupational Health Other Services Pediatrics Primary Care Radiology-Imaging Respiratory Care Surgical Services Vascular Services Weight Loss Surgery Women's Services Wound Care Center & Hyperbaric Medicine At Portsmouth Regional Hospital, we treat the most important health concerns - yours. We provide healthcare services designed to meet your needs at every stage of your life. Find a Doctor Find a Doctor Find a Doctor Find a Doctor By Phone We value the knowledgeable and experienced physicians affiliated with our hospital, and collaborate closely with them to continuously delivery quality patient care. Patients & Visitors Patients & Visitors Maps & Directions Phone Directory Patient Registration Visitor Information Classes, Events, & More Pay/View Bill New Baby Photos Patient E-mail Service Access To Patient Information Release of Medical Records Gift Shop Special Needs Preparing for Surgery Medication Safety Patient Rights & Responsibilities Advance Directives Inpatient Care Authorization Form Online Pre Registration eNewsletter Patient care is our most important job. We want to make sure your experience is as pleasant as possible. This section contains information to help make your stay with us as comfortable as possible. Career Center Career Center Career Center Search Jobs Online Physician Opportunities Do you share our passion for delivering high quality and safe patient care? If so, check out positions where you can further your career and enjoy a healthy work/life balance. About PRH About PRH Community Benefits eNewsletter Sign-up Newsroom Administrative Team Board of Trustees Mission & Values Hospital History Volunteer Opportunities Families First Community Links Newcomer Info Notice of Privacy Practices HCA Healthcare Changing Seacoast Lives At Portsmouth Regional Hospital, our focus is simple - putting Patients First. We have embraced this philosophy by focusing on patient care practices and new technology, keeping patient safety a top priority. At Portsmouth Regional Hospital, you’re going to be treated as an individual, with compassion and care, like one of the family. Our Patients First approach is clear...excellent service, every patient, every time. Health Library Health Library Health Resources X-Plain Patient Education Health Encyclopedia Virtual Body Today's Health News KidsHealth Video Gallery The more you know about your health, the better prepared you are to make informed healthcare decisions. Our health library gives you the information you need to take charge of your health. For Clinicians For Clinicians Genus MD Facility Scheduler Physician Opportunities Hospital Affiliation Letters for Medical Center Staff Capital hCare For Medical Professionals This section is specifically for healthcare professionals, including physicians, mid-level providers, nurses, and other medical professionals. Home Health Library Low Back Pain Back to Previous Page Low Back Pain Definition Low back pain is an ache or discomfort in the area of the lower part of the back and spinal column. The lower spinal column consists of many small bones that surround and protect the spinal cord and nerves. Low back pain is very common, affecting most adults at some point in their lives. Bones of the Lower Back © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes There are many possible causes for low back pain, including: Sprain or strain of muscles or ligaments in the area (most common cause of back pain), such as from: Heavy lifting Lifting incorrectly Sudden awkward movement Herniated (ruptured) disc —the cushions between the bones of the spine bulge out of place Disc degeneration , caused by aging or arthritis Spinal stenosis —narrowing of the spinal canal Spondylolisthesis —slippage of a bone in the lower back Fractures due to trauma and/or osteoporosis Fibromyalgia —a condition that causes muscle aches and fatigue Ankylosing spondylitis —a hereditary disorder involving the spine In rare cases: Benign or malignant tumors Infections Arterial problems such as as an aortic aneurysm Cauda equina syndrome —nerve roots at the base of the spinal cord are compressed Risk Factors These factors increase your chance of developing low back pain: Older age Certain activities (such as lifting) Sedentary lifestyle Pregnancy Obesity Smoking Prior back injury Prior back surgery Other factors which may negatively influence back pain include: Psychological factors, such as low job satisfaction Fatigue or sleep deficit Drug or alcohol abuse Stress Symptoms Pain is usually localized in the low back. It can get worse with back motion, sitting, standing, bending, and twisting. If a nerve is irritated, the pain may extend into the buttock or leg on the affected side, and muscle weakness or numbness may be present. It usually gets better with rest, and there is good bowel and bladder control. When Should I Call My Doctor? Often, back pain improves with self treatment. But some serious symptoms may occur which may require more immediate medical attention. Call your doctor if back pain: Is severe or gets dramatically worse Has not started to improve within a few days Causes difficulty walking, standing, or moving Is worse at night, or worse when you lie down Spreads down your legs Comes with pain or throbbing in your abdomen Is new and you are over age 50 Is associated with: Numbness, weakness, or tingling in your buttocks, genitals,  or legs Loss of bowel or bladder control Difficulty with urination Fever, unexplained weight loss, or other signs of illness You should also call your doctor if you have back pain and  a history of cancer or  osteoporosis or  you have a history of steroid use or IV  drug use. Diagnosis The doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history, and perform a physical exam. In particular, the doctor will examine your back, hips, and legs and usually will test for strength, flexibility, sensation, and reflexes. Other tests your doctor may order in certain situations include: X-rays —a test that uses radiation to take a picture of structures inside the body, especially bones. CT scan —a type of x-ray that uses a computer to make pictures of structures inside the body. This test provides a good picture of the vertebrae and the spinal canal. MRI scan —a test that uses magnetic waves to make pictures of structures inside the body and shows the intervertebral discs and any abnormality of the discs. Bone scan —a test to determine mineralization of the bones Blood tests—such as complete blood count (CBC) or sedimentation rate Urine test—to check for urinary infection or blood in the urine It is important to keep in mind that imaging tests, like CT or MRI scan, may not be helpful immediately after a back injury. Treatment Treatment options include: Stay Active Bed rest is not generally recommended in normal individuals. It is only recommended in those with severe debilitating back pain, and for not more that 1-2 days. Your doctor may recommend that you restrict activities for a period of time, then resume activities as soon as possible. By staying active and exercising you may be able to shorten your recovery time. Medication Medicines which your doctor may suggest include: Over-the-counter
              pain relievers, such as
              acetaminophen
              (Tylenol),
              aspirin
              (Bayer), or
              ibuprofen
              (Motrin, Advil) Muscle relaxants for muscle spasm—These medicines are not used in cases where you need to be alert, such as driving or operating machinery. Cortisone injections Antidepressants—These may  also be prescribed for chronic low back pain. Physical Therapy A physical therapy program may include: Applying hot or cold packs Doing stretching, strengthening, and balance exercises for back and stomach muscles Participating in an aerobic exercise program (eg, walking, swimming) Learning about how to deal with back problems Getting massage therapy Undergoing ultrasound treatments or electrical stimulation Alternative Medicine Relaxation training Biofeedback Acupuncture Chiropractic or osteopathic manipulation Surgery Only a small number of patients need surgery. It may be  needed if nerve problems develop or other treatments fail to provide relief. Common procedures are diskectomy , laminectomy , and spinal fusion . If you have low back pain, follow your doctor's
        instructions. If you have low back pain, follow your doctor's
        instructions. Prevention The following steps may help you avoid low back pain: Begin a safe exercise program with the advice of your doctor. Maintain a healthy weight . If you smoke, quit . Practice good posture to reduce pressure on your spine. Avoid sitting or standing in one position for prolonged periods. If you must remain standing for long periods, rest one foot at a time on a small stool to relieve pressure on your low back. When lifting, hold the object close to your chest, maintain a straight back, and use your leg muscles to slowly rise. Avoid aggravating activities, for example bending, twisting, and sudden movements. Consider job retraining if your work requires a lot of heavy lifting or sitting. If you have back pain during pregnancy, try wearing a BellyBra. This is a special bra to support your back and abdomen. While some people think that using shoe inserts will prevent back pain, so far there is not a lot of evidence to support this. RESOURCES American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons http://www.aaos.org/ Family Doctor.org http://www.familydoctor.org/ CANADIAN RESOURCES Canadian Orthopaedic Association http://www.coa-aco.org/ Canadian Orthopaedic Foundation http://www.canorth.org/default.asp/ References American Academy of Family Physicians. Management of chronic musculoskeletal pain: focus on low back pain. CME videotape monograph; 1999. American Association of Neurological Surgeons website. Available at: http://www.aans.org/ .
        Accessed July 1, 2009. Back pain. Mayo Clinic website. Available at: http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/back-pain/DS00171/DSECTION=3 . Published February 9, 2010.  Accessed February 9, 2012. Bratton RL. Assessment and management of acute low back pain. Am Fam Physician . 1999;60:2299-2309. Chronic low back pain. EBSCO DynaMed website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ . Updated December 29, 2011. Accessed February 9, 2012. Hagen KB, Hilde G, Jamtvedt G, Winnem M. Bedrest for acute low back pain and sciatica. Cochrane Database Rev . 2000;CD001254. Katz JN. Lumbar disc disorders and low-back pain: socioeconomic factors and consequences. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2006;88 Suppl 2:21. Low back pain. The Merck Manual. 17th
          ed. Whitehouse Station, NJ: Merck; 1999. Patel AT, Ogle AA. Diagnosis and management of acute low back pain. Am Fam Physician . 2000;62:2414-2415. Press release. American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons. 2006. 9/16/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Kalus SM, Kornman LH, Quinlivan JA. Managing back pain in pregnancy using a support garment: a randomised trial. BJOG. 2008;115:68-75. Epub 2007 Nov 12. 12/16/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Furlan AD, Imamura M, Dryden T, Irvin E. Massage for low-back pain. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008;CD001929. 1/30/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Yuan J, Purepong N, Kerr DP, Park J, Bradbury I, McDonough S. Effectiveness of acupuncture for low back pain: a systematic review. Spine. 2008;33:E887-900. 2/17/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Bigos SJ, Holland J, Holland C, Webster JS, Battie M, Malmgren JA. High-quality controlled trials on preventing episodes of back problems: systematic literature review in working-age adults. Spine J. 2009;9:147-168. 2/17/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Chou R, Fu R, Carrino JA, Deyo RA. Imaging strategies for low-back pain: systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet. 2009;373:463-472. 2/24/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Sahar T, Cohen M, Ne'eman V, et al. Insoles for prevention and treatment of back pain. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009;(1):CD005275. 9/2/2009 DynaMed Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Urquhart D, Hoving J, Assendelft W, Roland M, van Tulder M. Antidepressants for non-specific low back pain. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009;(3):CD001703. 11/12/2010 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebsochost.com/dynamed/ : US Food and Drug Administration. FDA clears Cymbalta to treat chronic musculoskeletal pain. US Food and Drug Administration website. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm232708.htm . 
Published November 4, 2010. Accessed November 12, 2010. 12/17/2010 
        DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Andersen LL, Christensen KB, Holtermann A, et al.

Effect of physical exercise interventions on musculoskeletal pain in all body regions among office workers: a one-year randomized controlled trial. Man Ther. 2010;15(1):100-104. 10/21/2011 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Chan CW, Mok NW, Yeung EW. Aerobic exercise training in addition to conventional physiotherapy for chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2011 ;92(10):1681-1685. 11/29/2011 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http:www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ : Gatti R, Faccendini S, Tettamanti A, Barbero M, Balestri A, Calori G. Efficacy of trunk balance exercises for individuals with chronic low back pain: a randomized clinical trial. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 2011;41(8):542-552. Revision Information Reviewer: Lawrence Frisch, MD, MPH Review Date: 09/2011 - Update Date: 02/24/2012 - This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition. Copyright © EBSCO Publishing All rights reserved. Health Resources X-Plain Patient Education Health Encyclopedia Virtual Body Today's Health News KidsHealth Video Gallery Call Portsmouth Regional Hospital at (603) 436-5110 HCA Capital Division Hospitals Patients & Visitors Classes & Events Pay Bill Online Phone Directory Consult-A-Nurse Maps & Directions Visitor Information Services A-to-Z Cancer Care Heart Care Neurosciences Occupational Health Pediatrics Women's Services All Services Health Professionals Employees Health Library Physician Opportunities Physicians Patient Education CJW Medical Center Henrico Doctors' Hospital John Randolph Medical Center Portsmouth Regional Hospital Parkland Medical Center Frankfort Regional Medical Center Terre Haute Regional Hospital Dominion Hospital Reston Hospital Center Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center StoneSpring Medical Center LewisGale Medical Center LewisGale Hospital Alleghany LewisGale Hospital Montgomery LewisGale Hospital Pulaski 333 Borthwick Avenue Portsmouth, NH 03801 Phone: (603) 436-5110 Copyright 1999-2012 ehc.com ;  All