
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 14:38:21 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://diabetic-forum.net/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: am_visits_42b5f0709569030c9639d11729527267=1; expires=Sat, 05-May-2012 14:38:22 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: am_visits_42b5f0709569030c9639d11729527267=1; path=/
Set-Cookie: cf_42b5f0709569030c9639d11729527267=1; expires=Sat, 21-Apr-2012 15:38:22 GMT; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Diabetes | Diabetes Mellitus | Diabetes Nutrition | diabetic-forum.net Home | About Diabetic Forum | Science and Symptoms July 30, 2009 More Diabetes Recipes Here is another great video with some diabetic recipes.  You will find some nice links within the video that you can explore too for more good food ideas. Filed under Food by Safari Rich Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment July 23, 2009 Pizza For Diabetics One of the thigns that has helped me is eating low-carb, or low-glycemic.  I found this recipe for pizza.  It is a nice alternative.  I thought I would pass this along.  I could eat this at least once per week. Filed under Food by Safari Rich Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment July 17, 2009 7 Amazing Foods That Lower Blood Sugar By Tehmina Mazher Are you in search of amazing foods that lower blood sugar levels? Do you want to gather information within next few minutes? If yes! Then without wasting your precious ti me I will jot down here 7 amazing foods that lower blood sugar levels. The misconception of diabetics will also get clear here that they do not have a wide choice of food items. As there are many delicious diabetic menus. French bean French beans also called kidney beans are a wonderful food choice for diabetics. They have a delicious taste if properly cooked. They are rich in proteins and fiber and contain some complex carbohydrates as well. French beans are strongly recommended by doctors to diabetics for lowering blood glucose levels. Brussel Sprout The cocktail of French bean juice and Brussel sprout juice is an amazing juice for lowering blood sugar level. The juice stimulates the insulin production thus lowering level of blood sugar. Bean Decoction Bean Decoction is an effective medicine for diabetics. It can be prepared by removing seeds of 50 gm fresh beans. These beans then have to be boiled for 3 hours in 3 ½ liters water. Diabetic should drink a glass of this mixture after every 2 hours for 6 weeks. The decoctions should be prepared daily as otherwise it will lose its blood sugar lowering property. Lettuce Lettuce is an ideal food to lower blood sugar level. It is low in cholesterol and carbohydrate. It has been confirmed by ADA, that foods that have lower level of cholesterol, aid the diabetics to keep the cardiovascular problems at a bay. Tomato Tomato is a great food for diabetics as it not only lowers down the level of glucose in urine but also helps them to lose weight. Soya Bean Soya bean again keeps the level of sugar of blood and urine in control. It is low in its carbohydrate content but rich in protein. Onion Onion whether cooked or raw are good for diabetics. It lowers down the level of blood sugar. Onion carries a compound similar to the one that are used for producing insulin. A balanced diet properly supplemented with vegetables and fruits aids to regulate the levels of sugar in bloodstream. To have delicious recipes of the above mentioned food list - Just check Diabetes Treatment . You will also find here an amazing food that lowers the blood sugar level if used as described within 4 weeks. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Tehmina_Mazher http://EzineArticles.com/?7-Amazing-Foods-That-Lower-Blood-Sugar&id=2380373 Filed under Food by Lauren Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment Related Posts 10 Foods That Diabetics SHOULD Eat Blood Sugar Basics Carbohydrates and Diabetes Diabetics advised to avoid caffeine July 14, 2009 Type 1 Diabetes - How to Cope With It By Diana Mortenson Type 1 diabetes may not be as common as type 2 diabetes, but it does not mean that this should not be given the same amount of attention. Type 1 diabetes happens because the pancreas is unable to produce insulin, or even if it is able to do that at all, the amount of insulin is not enough. Insulin, as you must know is a hormone that is responsible in converting glucose into energy. Normally, the insulin breaks down glucose in the blood and the essential nutrients are then distributed in the blood stream. Unfortunately, what happens with diabetes is that instead of getting the essential nutrients, the cells become starved because excess glucose is excreted out of the body through the urinary system. Such being the case, people with type 1 diabetes may present the following signs and symptoms: • excessive urination • excessive thirst • dehydration • dry mouth • weight loss • fatigue There may also be: • nausea and vomiting • abdominal pain • blurred vision • breathing problems • frequent skin infections, UTI, vaginal infections It is not really clear what causes type 1 diabetes, but genetics and environmental factors seem to be linked to this diabetes type. According to some studies, there is a virus that seem to attack the pancreas, rendering it unable to produce insulin. It is also said that type 1 diabetes occurs usually before the age of 20, the reason why it is called juvenile diabetes. People with type 1 diabetes often need insulin injections to control the problem. The type of insulin you need depends on your body's response to insulin, your lifestyle, your willingness to do the injections and monitor your blood sugar level, and your age. Insulin may be fast acting, intermediate acting, short acting or long acting. Close monitoring is very important if you are taking insulin injections for type 1 diabetes; that is why it is often recommended of diabetics to use a blood sugar monitoring device. This way they get to check their blood sugar levels at random times. Controlling Diabetes Controlling type 1 diabetes is very important because uncontrolled diabetes can lead to more serious diseases, such as retinopathy, kidney damage, and diabetic ketoacidosis which can be fatal. Controlling diabetes can be achieved through insulin injections, but diabetics are nonetheless advised to embark on a healthy lifestyle, that means eating the right foods and engaging in regular exercises. Life with Diabetes People who are recently diagnosed with type 1 diabetes are concerned about the kind of life they will have to live now that they are confirmed diabetics. One major issue is the need for insulin injections for life. Then there's also the matter of avoiding sweets. For chocoholics and sweet lovers, having diabetes is tantamount to the end of the world, but of course, that should not be the case at all. Yes, you may need some changes in your food choices, but keep in mind that fresh fruits, vegetables, and whole grains are not only healthy - they are truly delicious, too! The fact that you have diabetes should not dampen your mood at all. Strong family support is very important, and thankfully there are now many diabetes support groups that you can join to help you cope with diabetes better. Diabetics can still live a long, normal and healthy life, even in the midst of type 1 diabetes. Diabetes treatment is an absolute must for diabetes patients. Learn more what is needed for diabetes care. Common question that people ask is there are cure for diabetes . Find out by visiting our site. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Diana_Mortenson http://EzineArticles.com/?Type-1-Diabetes—How-to-Cope-With-It&id=2561425 Filed under Type 1 Diabetes by Lauren Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment Related Posts The Art of Insulin Injections 7 Amazing Foods That Lower Blood Sugar Foods to Avoid for Diabetes Insulin Injections July 6, 2009 Gestational Diabetes Symptoms By Dan S Wilson Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that afflicts women during pregnancy. Recent statistics show that 4% of pregnant women are diagnosed with this type of diabetes, and almost all women have impaired glucose intolerance as a result of hormonal changes that occur during pregnancy. These women were not previously diagnosed with diabetes. Gestational diabetes, usually, subsides after giving birth, but it does leave the patient at increased risk for developing Type 2 diabetes later in life. Having gestational diabetes does not mean the baby will be born with diabetes; however, if gestational diabetes goes untreated or unmonitored, there is high risk for health complications for both mother and infant. This can result in the baby producing too much insulin in the womb and gaining too much weight, thereby, resulting in premature birth. In order to ensure that you and your baby suffer no ill effects, early detection and prompt treatment is crucial. So how do you know if you have gestational diabetes? Unfortunately, it does not always cause symptoms in the pregnant woman. However, you may experience weight gain, excessive hunger and thirst, frequent urination, and recurrent vaginal infections. Gestational diabetes is detected via a glucose tolerance test. If your doctor thinks you are at risk, you may be tested as early as 13 weeks into your pregnancy. Otherwise, it is usually taken around week 24 to week 28. The test is administered by drinking a glucose solution, and having blood drawn an hour later for blood sugar levels testing. It is simple, easy and important. You will find it is common practice for your doctor to request this test be taken during pregnancy. If your glucose levels are high, then, you will be given more tests for certainty and, later, prescribed a diet regimen to keep you and your baby healthy. You will also be advised to exercise regularly to maintain a healthy weight. You can be prescribed insulin injections when it is necessary. Gestational Diabetes Signs Learn More About Gestational Diabetes and Pregnancy Now http://diabetes-research.net Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Dan_S_Wilson http://EzineArticles.com/?Gestational-Diabetes-Symptoms&id=2424027 Filed under Diabetes Symptoms by Lauren Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment Related Posts 10 Foods That Diabetics SHOULD Eat Blood Sugar Basics Carbohydrates and Diabetes Diabetics advised to avoid caffeine June 30, 2009 Diabetes and Alcohol - The Ugly Twins By Pieter De Wet The main objective of a diabetic patient is to control his sugar level. The food and beverages that we consume will have an effect on that control. Some food and beverages have even a bigger effect. Alcohol is one of them, and has a direct influence on diabetes management. Alcohol should be wisely used. Alcohol has a dehydrating effect on the body, so keep that in mind. Alcohol is very high in calories, which can lead to increase in bodyweight and blood fat levels. People with poorly controlled diabetes should not drink alcohol altogether. It is recommended that those with diabetes avoid drinking excessive amounts of alcohol. Guidelines for diabetics and alcohol consumption are as follows: one to two drinks per day for men and one drink per day for women. Those over 65 should also only allow themselves one drink per day. Alcohol moves through the bloodstream quite easily without ever being metabolized in the stomach. Without giving the liver the proper amount of time to break down the alcohol, it will move to other organs in the body and eventually build up in the bloodstream. Your body can only break down one ounce of alcohol per hour. Many times people will drink more beverages on a party, than eating food. Diabetic patients can develop hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) in such situations. Alcohol tends to lower blood sugar even more. Generally, when diabetics are experiencing low blood sugar levels, the liver changes the stored carbohydrates in the body into glucose. This glucose in the bloodstream slows down the 'low glucose' reaction that the body is having. So, what is happening when you are taking alcohol? When a diabetic person experiences low glucose levels while drinking alcohol, the trouble lies in that the liver, reacting to the alcohol that has built up in the bloodstream as a toxin, will go on red alert and stop producing glucose in order to cleanse the body of the alcohol. Therefore, drinking on an empty stomach is not recommended. Drinking just one alcoholic drink can impair judgment enough to make a critical mistake in diabetes management. Diabetics should make sure that there is someone with them who knows what to watch for should a low blood sugar reaction occurs. Hypoglycemic episodes can be easily confused with being tipsy. Remember hypoglycemia can happen some hours after a drinking session. A bracelet, necklace or identification card stating medical conditions should be worn at all times and glucose tablets should be kept nearby also. It is recommended that diabetics not take naps or fall asleep without having a snack or meal first and to check glucose levels first thing in the morning. Keep to sensible drinking levels. Alternate an alcoholic drink with a low calorie mixer. Don't drink on an empty stomach - enjoy a meal before or with your drink. You may need to eat a bigger, starchier meal before the party. Adjust your insulin before you drink. Red, dry or medium-dry white wines are acceptable in moderation as are dry sherries and dry light beers, such as lagers and light ales; these are fermented with 'low residual sugars' and are perfect for moderate consumption. Hard liquors such as whiskey, gin or vodka can be mixed with sugar free or diet mixers. Sweet wines, ports and sherries have high residual sugar contents, as do heavy and/or dark sweetened beers such as stout and porters. Wine coolers, hard liquors mixed with regular sodas and cocktails in general should be avoided by diabetics. Get your diabetes and alcohol information and diabetes advice at http://www.thediabetesdoc.com This content is provided by Dr Pieter De Wet a general practitioner and in practice for 23 years. It may be used only in its entirety with all links included. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Pieter_De_Wet http://EzineArticles.com/?Diabetes-and-Alcohol—The-Ugly-Twins&id=391656 Filed under Natural Health by Lauren Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment Related Posts 10 Foods That Diabetics SHOULD Eat Blood Sugar Basics Carbohydrates and Diabetes Diabetics advised to avoid caffeine June 23, 2009 Diabetes Medications By Josh Riverside Diabetes medications are attempted when normal diabetic diet, weight loss and exercise fail to bring blood sugar to a normal range. They include oral drugs and hypodermal injections. Medication usually starts when the average blood glucose levels are greater than 150 mg/dl (8 mol). Diabetes medications work effectively when they are combined with exercise and diet. Oral drugs are the most common form of medication. There are many sites on the Internet that offer online diabetes medications. There are mainly three classes of diabetes medications. The first class medication makes the body more sensitive to the insulin secreted by the body f (e.g.: thiazolidinediones and actose.) The second class stimulates the beta cells of pancreas to release more insulin (e.g.: sulfonylurea and meglitinides.) The third class blocks the breakdown of carbohydrates (e.g.: alpha-glycosidase inhibitors and meglitol.) Diabetes medications depend on many things such as blood glucose level, blood pressure, insulin production, mode of living, genetic factors and the immune system of patients. Different medications can be taken independently or in combinations. To respond to an oral diabetes agent, you must have some insulin making ability. Diabetes medications require patient-physician partnerships also. You can experiment by trying more than one type of pill, several combinations of pills or a combination of insulin and a pill. The most popular of all diabetes medications is insulin injection. Insulin is administrated when the average blood glucose level reaches 180 mg/dl. Forty per cent of diabetic patients require insulin injections. Insulin is injected once or twice daily. Some diabetic patients take insulin three or four times daily. Insulin is classified into different types based on the time required to absorb from under the skin to the blood stream. Oral agents fall into three categories - short acting s, intermediate acting a and long acting s. The oral pills can have some side effects such as nausea, yellowing of skin and vomiting. Never take medication above the prescribed quantity, as it could lead to extended hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). Frequently check your blood glucose level. Diabetes provides detailed information on Diabetes, Symptoms Of Diabetes, Diabetes Supplies, Diabetes Diets and more. Diabetes is affiliated with 1200 Calorie Diabetic Diets . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Josh_Riverside http://EzineArticles.com/?Diabetes-Medications&id=353704 Filed under Medications by Lauren Spread the Word! del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Help Permalink Comment Related Posts 7 Amazing Foods That Lower Blood Sugar Type 1 Diabetes Next Page » Categories Blood Sugar Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Facts Diabetic Groups Exercise Food Medications Natural Health Nutirition Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Weight Loss Recent Posts More Diabetes Recipes Pizza For Diabetics 7 Amazing Foods That Lower Blood Sugar Type 1 Diabetes - How to Cope With It Gestational Diabetes Symptoms Diabetes and Alcohol - The Ugly Twins Diabetes Medications Access Diabetic Supply Methods - Quick and Easy Diabetes Links American Diabetes Assoc. Cash Advance Reversing Diabetes Symptoms Syndicate RSS Feed Help Archives July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 Losing weight helps relieve many symptoms of diabetes. Check out: Fat Loss For Idiots Tags accurate measurement american diabetes association blood glucose bloodstream blood sugar levels carbohydrate choices carbohydrate foods carbohydrate meal cholesterol levels coronary heart disease critical point diabetes carbohydrate diabetes results diabetes risks diagnosis of diabetes diet exercise exercise habits first signs of diabetes food for diabetics fruits vegetables fruit vegetables glucose intolerence Di