
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 22:05:49 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 22:05:49 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Tackling the True Sources of Low Back Pain Topics | Workout Plans | Forums | Search Profiles | Who's Online | Who's Verified Chat | Mail (0) | Profile & Photos | Buddy & other lists | Preferences | Account | Help JOIN NOW | SIGN IN WORKOUTS WORKOUTS Strength Training Cardio Training Sports & Activities Injury & Prevention NUTRITION Gaining & Losing Weight Performance Eating Vitamins & Supplements BODY & MIND HIV/AIDS Massage & Stretching Psyche & Meditation RESOURCES HIV/AIDS ENTERTAINMENT Music NEWS Injury & Prevention Share this: Print Facebook Digg Reddit StumbleUpon Photo Credit: Nicolas Smith Tackling the True Sources of Low Back Pain By Mike Clausen A leg workout is about the last thing anyone with low back pain feels like doing in the gym. But correct leg work can help to correct even entrenched lower back issues. Let's put this in perspective: lower back pain is the leading cause of medical sick leave and disability, and the vast majority of us will experience it at some point in our lives. But most people who have “bad backs” actually have chronic tightness elsewhere in their bodies that is causing the back pain. And the only thing that will fix this is corrective work. And while I can't address every possible source of low back pain, I can tell you about one leading cause that has impacted me personally, and what I have done to rectify it. Causes and Solutions Most people who experience pain in their lower back are actually tight in their quadratas lumborum muscle (QL). The QL muscle attaches above the 12th rib and is responsible for lateral flexion (side-to-side) of the spine, elevation or hiking of the ipsilateral (that is, on the same side) hip when the spine is fixed, bilateral extension of the spine (basically, holding you up straight), and stabilization of the 12th rib during inhalation and forced exhalation. In other words, this muscle does a lot. It will get particularly tight if you spend a lot of time sitting, as at a desk or computer, a position where the QL remains constantly contracted. And if you have a tight QL, you will experience it as a deep tightening of the muscles along your spine. The pain can also refer to the complex of your hip and pelvis—specifically, the greater trochanter, ischial tuberosity and sacrioiliac joints. If that's all Latin to you, here's what it means in practice: so much tightness and pain in front and back that you can't stand up straight. That's what most people describe as having their back "go out." Pain and tightness in the QL can come from an instability and imbalance caused by muscles that attach to the pelvis. This can originate in postural deviations in the pelvis. But here's the thing: even experienced exercisers can't easily tell what is causing their lower back pain. Until I saw a physical therapist, I was unsure whether my legs were tight and causing the back pain, or vice versa. Don’t self-diagnose yourself, even after reading this article. If you do experience chronic tightness or pain, see a physical therapist to help get to the root of the problem. In my case, I learned that my pelvis is tilted anteriorly and hiked up to the right, partly thanks to a wave surfing incident, but more importantly due to my chronically weak hamstrings and gluteus medius along with overactive quads. This is a recipe for disaster, since each time I did leg exercises, my quads would kick in, I wouldn’t be using the proper muscles, and I would further increase the instability in my pelvis. It's a vicious circle. But the cycle can be broken. I now have daily corrective exercise work that I must do to help keep my pelvis in line. I am going to provide you with this workout program—with the understanding that it is just pointing the way toward the kind of thing you will need to develop for yourself, in concert with a physical therapist, if you want to address your lower back issues. In other words, this specific workout may not be for you, but it will give you a sense of what is involved in getting leg work on track and developing a stronger core, leading to fewer flare-ups. To Do or Not To Do? A physical therapist will take some options off the table for anyone dealing with these kinds of referred low back issues. For instance, my PT told me no longer to do lunges, since my hip height when measured before and after lunges was substantially different. The lunges were doing me more harm than good. Also off the table for me—and for anyone with overactive hip flexors and tight quads—is the leg press machine, which puts the body in an unnatural position while forcing those muscles to engage. My daily corrective work consists of the three exercises I will describe below. I usually spend about 20 minutes per day doing this circuit. If I skip a day, I can notice the tightness start in my back, and then it refers to my hips, quads and IT bands. It can be pretty painful and annoying. So, I make sure to make this my top priority—even over working out. There is no use building up your body on a faulty foundation. If, like me, you've had this issue for a long time, you will not only have to be diligent in addressing it daily, but it will help to have support in the form of body work, both chiropractic (to keep the spine flexible) and deep tissue massage. Here are my three lower-back exercises: 1.) Standing QL Stretch: Stand next to a wall in a lunge position with your outside leg behind you and the leg nearer the wall forward. Reach up and over your body with the outside arm, and bend towards the wall. Hold this for one minute, as you breathe deeply and on the exhale move your arm further towards the wall. Do this for one minute on each side. This one is not just for the gym—you can easily do this throughout the day. 2.) Stability Ball Hip Raises: Lie on the ground on your back with the soles of your feet on a firm stability ball. With your arms out to your sides and palms down for stability, raise your hips as high as you can. You will feel the movement in your glutes and hamstrings. Slowly lower your hips back down to the ground. Do 20 of these. If you are having a hard time controlling the stability ball, then you can do these with your feet on the ground as well—but the stability ball will allow you more engagement throughout your core and can only help you more. You can also place a yoga block between your knees and press your knees together when raising your hips. All of this will help to “reset” your muscles. 3.) Stability Ball Hamstring Curls: In the same position as the last exercise, with feet on a stability ball and shoulders/upper back on the floor, raise your hips so they are elevated in the air. Then “curl” the ball towards your body with your feet. Then, slowly roll the ball back out so that your legs are straight.  Your hips will be off the ground the entire time once you start. Do 20 of these. I will occasionally use the hamstring curl machine, but mostly just stick to using the stability ball as you don’t need to load up the weight for this exercise. You are just trying to slowly increase strength—you don’t want to overdo it and then have hamstrings that are too tight, thus pulling your pelvis in the wrong direction. The Full Package Rectifying entrenched back issues isn't something you can just do in the gym and then forget. In addition to these daily corrective exercises and stretches, I make sure to maintain a proper back arch when working out, sitting at my desk, or training my clients. It’s something I have to constantly remind myself of, as I find myself slouching forward while sitting in my chair or rounding my shoulders forward when training clients, both of which casue me to slouch when standing. By, frankly, sticking my butt out, and maintaining that arch, I can feel my QL tightness diminish. All it takes is being diligent at doing the stretches and corrective work—and reminding myself that doing traditional weightlifting while I’m still injured is an unwise idea. Take care of your body so it will take care of you! About Mike Clausen: Clausen is the founder and co-owner of DIAKADI Body training gym, voted best personal training gym in San Francisco by CitySearch in 2006. He has been actively involved in sports and weightlifting since high school, and continues to use that knowledge when training his clients. Clausen is both A.C.E. and N.A.S.M. certified and has been training clients professionally for six years. He enjoys making his clients stronger, both physically and mentally, giving them the tools to create an efficient body and to do things they thought were not possible. RELATED ARTICLES My Top Five: Mike Clausen's Five Gym Essentials Diakadi Fitness Tips: Step Away From That Leg Machine! Long and Loose: Six Stretches for Optimal Training YOUR COMMENTS add your comments Wisconsinrunner wrote: I had a lower back injury when I was about 11 or 12.  I still get pain every now and then but I try to stretch out good, Yoga stretching exercises really help as well. Mar 22 10:03 PM rdberg1957 wrote: I had numerous issues which were addressed by massage therapists, trainers, physical therapists and chiropractors.  Each had a piece of the puzzle.  The trainer used active isolated stretching to loosen my hip rotators among other things.  I also started stretching and strengthening the hamstrings, massage therapist worked on quadratus lumborum. Physical therapist and chiropractor identified muscles which needed strengthening. Mar 04 5:08 AM nutcracker wrote: Here is a very simple exercise that always seems to work with me.  After warming and stretching, I lay on my back on the floor, I hold my head up off the floor tuck my chin, and do legg lifts.  Both leggs held together and reasonably straight. Slowly lift my legs perpendicular to the floor tucking the small of my back into the floor.  Say three seconds lifting then 3 seconds lowering back to the floor.  Repeat 15 times.  Keep your chin tucked thru the 15 reps.  I am going to say in 3 to 5 days your pain should be gone.  If it doesn't work, I will refund your money.  It also helps to bend over and touch your toes after the exercise to stretch those back muscles. The one exception I have found is someone who is doing other exercises improperly or the rest of their muscles are unbalanced.  It may take shoe inserts to even out a short leg. Mar 03 9:50 PM SCAthlete wrote: As a guy who's had low back issues, I read the article and was interested in your advice. But in this age of online video, the descriptions of the exercises seem too much to try to figure out. Mar 02 1:14 PM nursemuscle wrote: I have a friend who kept complaining of back pain and got diagnosed with a 5 degree deviation in his spine.  We started on lower leg and light back exercises as well as abdominal strength exercises.  He now has no pain for four months. It took about two, but I started to notice his walking improved and he was feeling much better. Mar 02 11:10 AM Gaymedes wrote: To help with my lower back pain I find doing back extensions and crunches help alot.   The pain usually bothers me in the morning after sleeping in my bed.  I have discussed this with my doctor and she said to just continue doing what I am doing to handle the situation and to let her know if it gets worse.  That and to make sure I do my cardio; which I hate:( Mar 01 9:15 PM Lostboy wrote: In fact the problem frequently comes from the feet and how they connect with the ground. It is this which often messes up the muscles which connect to the pelvis, both from below and above (like the QL). Then the pelvis pulls everything out of line... Mar 01 7:51 PM add your comments Home Topics Workout Plans Forums Search Profiles Who's Online Verified Members Chat Mail Profile & Photos Buddy & Hotlists Preferences Account Help About Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertise with Us Help Sitem