
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 02:22:24 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Effective Home Remedies for Headaches Proven
        Home Remedies for Headaches There are
          many kinds of home remedies using with that we can able to control headaches.
          The home remedies are apply a paste of freshly ground clay or freshly
          ground sandalwood to forehead let dry and rub off by hand and wash.
          Drink a teaspoon of honey in a glass of water or fill the stomach completely
          with water. Massage
          forehead, temples, neck and shoulder muscles make sure to use a little
          oil to prevent chaffing and burning while massaging. Dilute a paste
          of ginger powder with water & apply to the forehead. A burning sensation
          may continue. But it's not injurious. Make tea with cumin & coriander
          seeds in a cup of hot water & drink it and also apply a sandalwood
          paste to the temples Sinus headaches: point toward toxins in the colon.
          Take one teaspoon of flax seed at bedtime with a glass of warm milk.
          At the same time, apply ginger paste behind the ears. It will give a
          better result. Try lavender
          oil for headaches and it's the only headache reliever .It is really
          good success. Make sure you don't use a product with perfume oils or
          lavender scented fragrance oils. Use a product called "Lavender
          Relief" because it's all natural and not greasy. Feverfew can work
          but there is a chance to upset your stomach. Put an ice cube at the
          bottom of your neck, behind your head and try to cut out noise around
          you. If you can block out the light, it is supportive as well. To prevent
          headache, use feverfew oil and massage, visualization while in the middle
          of a headache. Put lavender, basil, and Japanese Mint or peppermint
          on the temples and base of skull. Be careful with mint oils they can
          burn, nothing serious just uncomfortable. Soak your
          feet and hands in cold water the colder the better, this draws the blood
          out of your head relieving or at least reducing the headache. You can
          also add a cold pack around your neck or on your spine. It makes you
          feel better. Tylenol is recommended to infants and pregnant woman all
          over the country and it can be given to infants as young as 0 months!
          Having honey one tablespoon for reg. headaches or migraines. It is the
          excellent for arthritis in the knees. After taking 1 or 2 feverfew tablets
          every day for a few months the severity and frequency of the migraines
          decreased and within a few more months they ceased. There are many features
          to be aware of in daily life, which can contribute to headaches. Just
          knowing how light, stress, certain foods, etc. can affect us can help
          us take proper preventative action, especially in the home environment. For stress
          headaches I usually go to the bath with eucalyptus spearmint oil. It
          also comes in lotion, pillow spray, and bath gel. Simply rub a small
          amount on my neck and the temples of my head and the headache is gone
          with in a short time. A single suggestion for a headache is using an
          ice-cold piece of cooking foil on your forehead. This is said to be
          remedial for a headache. One doctor who has been studying headaches
          for years says the foil cools the blood and the headache disappears
          in about two minutes. It's somewhat
          different for everyone, because everyone associates different types
          of smells with different things in the world. However, there are some
          aromas that stand out from the crowd as headache killers: peppermint,
          sandalwood lavender, and eucalyptus. Try each of these, and combinations.
          Use essential oils for massage, or apply candles or soaps. Lots of companies
          sell products with these names now that are cheap and may only make
          your headache bad. Regular
          exercise helps us cope with pain. It's especially effective for people
          with migraine. Some even find that mild exercise during a migraine helps
          alleviate the pain. Remember, though – ease into it! Sudden changes
          can make your migraine worse, and that isn't what we're going for here!
          Exercise can also help release the body's natural painkillers, endorphins.
          Much has been said about diet and herbs, which are important to migraine
          and various types of headache Migraines are extremely painful headaches
          that can be debilitating. Only one side of the head is involved in many
          cases. Circulation to the scalp and brain can be altered, which affects
          the person. " Apply a heating pad to the back of your neck to soothe
          the stiffness. "Place your thumbs right in the center of each temple,"
          who sometimes gets headaches herself. "Massage firmly using a circular
          motion for a minute or three minutes until you feel relief. " Taking
          hot bath or shower. Main
          Menu UTI ADD ADHD Acne Warts Moles Cancer Herpes Asthma Eczema Snoring Arthritis Candida Shingles Thyroid Hair 
            Loss Insomnia Asperger Bronchitis Heartburn Anti 
            Aging Baby 
            Colic Cold 
            Sores Bedwetting Bad 
            Breath Depression Hemorrhoids Child 
            Anxiety Child 
            Autism Athlete 
            Foot Hair 
            Removal Stretch 
            Marks Child 
            Tantrums Chronic 
            Fatigue Child 
            Sleep Disorder Natural 
            Treatment Contact FREE
                Subscription Signup
                for Our Newsletter and Receive up to Date Details on Important Issues Affecting your
                Health. Name: Email: Note
                : We never rent, trade, or sell our email lists to anyone.
                We assure that your privacy is respected and protected. Resource Proven
          Natural Remedy to prevent migraines & chronic headaches, including
          cluster headaches ...
          Click here for more info. Proven
        Natural Remedy to prevent migraines & chronic headaches, including
        cluster headaches ...
        Click here for more info. Disclaimer
      : All the
      material contained on this page is been just provided for educational and
      informational purposes only and not intended to any type of consultation.
      Please consult with your physician or appropriate healthcare personal for
      any kind of opinions or recommendations with respect to your symptoms or
      medical condition. The author is not responsible to any person or entity
      with respect to any kind of damage, loss, or injuries, caused or alleged
      to be caused directly or indirectly by the information contained in this
      report. Also, the logos, trademarks, and brand names, if any, depicted on
      this site are exclusive property of their respective companies. Copyright -
        © 2004 - 2012        - All Rights