Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Remember those Kegels? Why They Still Work After Childbirth From MomShack.com Sign 
                          up for the free updates newsletter below... Name: E-mail 
                          : Health Remember those Kegels? Why They Still Work After Childbirth By Arlene Pellicane Feb 14, 2008, 00:32 When pregnant, I kept hearing about Kegels, the wonder exercise that would make birthing my baby easier. So of course I thought, "Sign me up!" But now, after baby has arrived, do Kegels still play a role in great health? The answer is yes! The enormous strain of having a baby can weaken the pelvic floor muscles. But by doing regular Kegels after delivery, you can easily strengthen these small but important muscles again. Other added benefits include enhanced sexual pleasure both for you and your husband so read on! Named after Dr. Arnold Kegel, this exercise is designed to strengthen the pubococcygeus muscles, or PC muscles. To find these muscles, try stopping and starting the flow of urine. Bingo! Now simply tighten and relax these muscles over and over again, as if you’re trying to stop the flow of urine. There are many variations of the exercise: 1. Tighten and relax the PC muscles throughout the day (shoot for 200 times) 2. Tighten slowly in increments going in and out, like an elevator stopping on several floors 3. Hold the muscle tightened for five seconds and then release. Gradually work up to holding each Kegel for a count of ten Make sure you don't do these when you're actually going to the bathroom or with a full bladder. This could increase your risk of a urinary tract infection. Otherwise, you can do Kegels sitting at the computer, standing in line, even when you're lying in bed. It's a little invisible exercise that can be done anywhere, whether you're alone, talking to a friend, or in a crowd of people. By having a strong pelvic floor, you will be better prepared for your next pregnancy, experience more sexual pleasure with your husband, and reduce the risk of incontinence in the future. Now granted, if you have a little one in diapers, you may not be thinking of having another now or incontinence in the future, but wouldn't you welcome a boost to your sex life? Kegel exercises are great for strengthening a healthy body and a healthy marriage, so don't forget about them since baby has arrived. Kegels are always in vogue for moms of any age. Today's Action Step: What variation of Kegel exercises will you do today? » Advertise » Sign 
                  up for MomShack updates » Send 
                  this article to a friend » View 
                  printable version of this article About 
                    the Author(s) : Arlene Pellicane, mother of a toddler and infant, helps women lose their baby weight and thrive as wives and mothers. Her weekly podcast "Losing Weight After Baby" is full of practical ideas that work for busy moms. An everyday mom herself, you can visit Arlene's website for free articles and exercises at http://www.losingweightafterbaby.com or blog at http://losingweightafterbaby.wordpress.com Copyright 
      © 2002- 2009 - MoM Shack - All Rights Reserved. - Privacy 
      Policy Wendy 
     