
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 01:22:10 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Green America: Least-Toxic Dentistry Our Mission What We Do Financial Information Annual Report Jobs and Internships Newsroom Living Green Climate & Energy Fair Trade Sweatshops Responsible Shopper Better Paper Project Social Investing Break Up With Your Mega-Bank What is Our Green Business Certification National Green Pages® Green Gift Guide Green Deals Meet Green Businesses Green Business Network™ Join the Green Business Network™ National Green Pages® Green American Magazine Guide to Fair Trade Guide to Socially Responsible Investing Guide to Ending Sweatshops Guide to Community Investing Research Reports Advertising Order Publications Sign Up for Our E-newsletter Campaigns Events Green Festival® Volunteer with Us Our Mission Join Donate Renew Monthly Giving Other Ways to Give National Green Pages™ Fair Trade Products Sweat-free Products Social  Investing Corporate Profiles 10 Things to Never Buy Community Invest. Center Green Festival® Green Living Tips Green America Membership Green America Publications Jobs & Internships Newsroom Fair Trade Social Investing Sweatshops Green Business Corporate Responsibility Shareholder Action Community Investing Buying Green Forest Protection Green Living Boycotts UnShopping What We Do Who We Are National Green Pages® - Green Business Network™ - Membership Login About Us Our Work Our Certification Our Publications Blog Get Involved Donate You are here: Green America > green living articles from the Green American Article Summary Educate yourself about potential toxins in your dentist's office. Experts urge caution 
to prevent potential negative health effects from common dental procedures. Choose dental alternatives that protect your health and the environment. Green American Your Green America membership includes: a FREE subscription to the Green American a FREE copy of our National Green Pages™ a FREE copy of our Guide to Socially Responsible Investing Join now » Sign Up for Green America's E-Newsletter Simple ways to make a difference everyday! Printer friendly version Send this to a friend Sign up for email list Become a member Share Real Green Living FEATURE ARTICLE - JAN/FEB 2004 Least-Toxic Dentistry Mercury fillings, dental sealants, and root canals may be linked to health problems. Here’s what you need to know to stay safe. When you visit the dentist, you’re probably hoping that you’ll get a clean bill of dental health. Keep in mind, though, that you should also be looking closely at the health of your dentist’s office. Many dental procedures that have been used for years—from fluoride applications to 
amalgam fillings to root canals—are now under scrutiny for their possible role in causing health problems. Learning about the issues surrounding these procedures can make you a more informed and safer dental patient. The Fuss About Fillings Amalgam, or silver, fillings, which have been widely used by dentists for more than a century, are about 50 percent mercury; the balance is made up of other metals, mainly
        silver, copper, tin, and zinc. According to the American Dental Association (ADA), amalgam is an ideal substance for dental restorations because it’s durable, easy to use, highly resistant to wear, and cost-effective. The ADA claims that the presence of mercury in fillings is not a problem, because the fillings release only minute amounts of mercury vapor, and such low-level exposure has not been proven to be harmful. A growing number of dental professionals disagrees. “The ADA warns that amalgam is toxic before placement and after removal, so dentists have to take precautions with these procedures,” says Dr. Robert Johnson, a biologic dentist who heads the Natural Horizons Wellness Center in Fairfax, Virginia. “There’s no reason for amalgam to suddenly not be toxic once it’s in someone’s mouth.”There’s little dispute about one thing: everyday activities like brushing your teeth, eating, and drinking hot liquids cause
        amalgam fillings to release mercury vapor. The ADA acknowledges that chewing and grinding teeth may cause amalgam fillings to release one to three micrograms of mercury per day, while the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that the average amount is actually three to 17 micrograms per day. There’s also no doubt that mercury is dangerous: According to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency under the US Department of Health and Human Services, exposure to “high levels” of mercury can permanently damage the brain, kidneys, and a developing fetus. What’s still being debated is exactly how much mercury exposure it takes to cause these effects, and how much of that is likely to come from fillings. Proponents of amalgam fillings say that the amount of mercury released from them is nowhere near a dangerous level, while critics contend that research hasn’t conclusively proven that amalgam is safe. “The bottom line is, there’s of lack of attention to this issue in the dental field,” says Dr. Michael Ziff, DDS, executive director of the International Academy of Oral Medicine and Toxicology (IAOMT). “When physicians prescribe drugs, they’re very aware of the toxicology of the medications—but when you ask dentists what the absorption rate of mercury vapor from amalgam fillings is, many of them have no idea. They take the ADA’s word for the safety of fillings instead of looking at the science.” If potential health hazards aren’t enough to make you exercise caution around amalgam fillings, consider their effect on the Earth. Scientists agree that mercury needs to be kept out of the environment. According the nonprofit Mercury Policy Project (MPP), many dentists contribute to the prevalent problem of mercury pollution in waterways by failing to separate mercury from their wastewater, and by incinerating dental waste that contains mercury, which releases that substance into the atmosphere. Urging your dentist to adopt best management practices for mercury waste disposal—a step also endorsed by the ADA—can greatly reduce the amount of dental-related mercury pollution. “The good news is that 25 percent of dentists across the US no longer place mercury fillings. Many recognize that mercury use reduction is good for the environment, for their patients, and for business, too,” says MPP executive director Michael Bender. Fluoride Fears Since the 1940s, fluoride has been added to community water supplies around the US in order to prevent tooth decay. Many dentists credit fluoridated water with dramatically lowering the incidence of cavities in the population, but a reassessment of the original studies on fluoride’s contributions suggest that it might not be quite as beneficial as originally supposed. Studies on fluoride published in the Journal of Dental Research have shown that fluoride’s action occurs mainly on the surface of the teeth, meaning that the benefits of ingesting the substance are negligible. Other research suggests that fluoride might be harmful. Fluoride is generally not considered dangerous at low levels—the key is to make sure you don’t get too much. Data from the National Toxicology Program indicates that fluoride may be a carcinogen. And a University of Utah study found “a small but significant increase” in the risk of hip fracture in elderly men and women exposed to artificial fluoridation at one part per million—a low level that’s within the range recommended by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Though the links between fluoridated water and cancer or hip fractures haven’t been definitively proven, some scientists are urging caution and calling for an end to the practice of adding fluoride to drinking water. Other Dental Procedures Advocacy groups are also raising questions about the safety of sealants and root canals. Sealants, which are usually applied to back teeth as barriers against decay-causing bacteria, are under fire because they may leach bisphenol-A (BPA), an endocrine disruptor. Endocrine disruptors have been linked to declining sperm counts and increased cancer rates in humans. Controversy began with a University of Granada study, published in Environmental Health Perspectives in 1996, which found that BPA had leached into patients’ saliva shortly after dental sealant application. In response to this study, the ADA tested the 12 brands of sealants that carry its seal of acceptance and found that 11 of them leached no detectable BPA; they contacted the manufacturer of the twelfth, who implemented additional quality control procedures and whose product then leached no detectable BPA in subsequent testing. However, many experts say much more research is needed before it can be concluded what kinds of sealants leach BPA, and whether BPA can be absorbed from saliva at harmful levels. Some dentists are also challenging conventional wisdom on root canals. These invasive procedures are performed when bacteria infiltrate teeth through cavities or cracks and compromise the soft tissue inside. The root canal procedure removes diseased pulp and seals the tooth to prevent infection from spreading, but some research—based largely on studies conducted by Dr. Weston Price in the early 20th century and detailed in a recent book by Dr. George Meinig—suggests that bacteria can continue to spread despite root canal procedures, possibly entering the bloodstream and causing harmful infections in the liver, kidney, heart, eye, or other tissue. The American Association of Endodontists states that more recent attempts to duplicate Dr. Price’s research have not yielded the same results, and root canals are safe; the IAOMT says that contemporary studies show microorganisms persisting in root canals after treatment. Unfortunately, the current alternative to a root canal is tooth extraction, which dentists are reluctant to recommend. “We need more research on the actual health risks to patients from this treatment, and whether techniques can be improved to reduce risk,” says Dr. Ziff. Dr. Johnson notes that the use of biocalyx, a special cement that expands as it hardens, is a developing technique that shows promise for reducing infection risk from root canals. The Bottom Line “The dental establishment feels threatened at the idea of finding anything harmful in the materials or practices it’s been recommending for decades,” says Dr. Johnson. “But just as we must urge the auto industry to reconsider its reliance on fossil fuels, we must urge the dental industry to support additional research on its favorite materials in order to protect human and environmental health.” There’s reason to be hopeful, adds Dr. Ziff. “Individual dentists are making more of an effort to educate themselves, and I expect we’ll see some major positive changes over the next couple of decades,” he says. You can help spur these changes by letting your dentist know about your concerns. Here are other specific steps you can take: 1. Don't Panic: If you have amalgam fillings, root canals, or sealants or get regular fluoride treatments, that doesn’t mean you need to panic. Dentists don’t all agree about the need for removing existing amalgam fillings, so you can decide for yourself which steps make sense. Some dentists privately say that their patients should get all toxic mercury removed from their mouths, (most dentists will not publicly recommend the removal of mercury fillings, because some who have done so have faced legal challenges from state dental boards). Others concur with a recent report from the Swedish Dental Material Commission, which compiled the results of worldwide research on amalgam, cautioning that “removal of existing amalgam fillings should not be undertaken unless there are medical reasons for doing so, [because] the risk of complications from the removal may exceed the risk of side effects from the amalgam.” Be aware, too, that your insurance will likely only cover the removal of a filling if it’s too old or decayed to be serviceable or if a doctor has recommended it. If you need to have an amalgam filling removed, make sure your dentist limits your mercury exposure (see the “Safe Removal of Amalgam Fillings” publication on the IAOMT’s Web site). 2. If you need a new filling , ask your dentist for a resin filling or other amalgam alternative. “Dentists who’ve started practicing recently rarely use amalgam fillings, because a good resin filling is a much better restoration,” says Dr. Johnson. You can also find a “mercury-free” dentist through the IAOMT Web site, or look for a “biologic” or “holistic” dentist in your area. 3. Limit mercury exposure from current amalgam fillings. Cut down on gum chewing and teeth grinding (your dentist may be able to help). 4. Check fluoride levels in your local water. Since fluoride is most effective at preventing tooth decay when applied topically, getting fluoride dental treatments (including the use of fluoridated toothpaste or rinses) is more beneficial than drinking fluoridated water. According to the EPA, your tap water should have between .7 and 1.2 parts per million of fluoride—contact your local water department to find out how much fluoride is in your water. If your level is high or you think you’re getting too much from combined sources, consider getting a water filter that removes fluoride. For more information, visit the Web site of Second Look, a nonprofit that presents information from both sides of the fluoride debate. 5. Take extra care with children. Supervise children when they brush their teeth to ensure they’re not ingesting too much fluoridated toothpaste. Also, the Children’s Health Environmental Coalition advises parents to refrain from having sealants put on their children’s baby teeth. Ask your dentist whether s/he thinks your child needs sealants for permanent molars (some children’s teeth have more pits and grooves and are thus more susceptible to cavities than others, so dentists’ recommendations can vary by patient). 6. If you think you're experiencing adverse health effects from mercury, consult your medical doctor. The ATSDR lists “irritability, tremors, changes in vision or hearing, and memory problems” among the effects of excessive mercury exposure, and impaired functioning of your kidneys or immune system can also be mercury-related. 7. Brush, floss, and visit your dentist regularly. The best way to solve the problems of fillings and root canals is to not need them. — Liz Borkowski Resources American Dental Association -- (312)440-2500. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry -- (555)42-ATSDR. Children's Health Environmental Coalition -- (609)252-1915. Environmental Protection Agency -- (202)272-0167. International Academy of Oral Medicine and Toxicology -- (863)420-6373. Mercury Pilot Project -- (802)223-9000. Second Look -- (508)755-7352. More green-living articles from the Green American » Home | About Us | Our Work | Our Certification | Our Publications | Blog | Get Involved | Donate National Green Pages® | Green Business Network™ | Membership Login Social Investing | Ask Green America | Newsroom Become a Member | Jobs & Internships | Contact Us 1612 K Street NW, Suite 600, Washington DC 20006 | (800) 584-7336 | 