<http://holyhillac.com/?p=329>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Acupuncture Works » RSS feed Home Dr. Kim Testimonials About Acupunture Treatments About Herbal Nutrition About Tui Na About Herbology About Tai Chi Media Contact Guestbook Location Acupuncture Works The first of its kind “Patients’ Own Words” research project tells us what acupuncture users nationwide think of their treatment. Do they get what they came for? What do they think of their practitioners, the cost, and more? The results are in: In a nationwide survey of acupuncture patients: 91.5% reported “disappearance” or “improvement” of symptoms after acupuncture treatment 84% say they see their doctors less 79% say they used fewer prescription drugs 70% of those recommended for surgery said it was no longer necessary These are just a few of the extraordinary findings in the largest survey to date of acupuncture patients. The first results are the product of more than four years of research. At six clinics in five states, 575 people participated and nearly all of them reported that acupuncture helps them feel & function better. Respondents also reported that they were very satisfied with acupuncture care, cost and with their individual practitioners. Many also said that they were saving money on their overall heal-care costs. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. You must be logged in to post a comment. Dr. Kim has healed my body and spirit Dr. Kim has healed my body and spirit with his calming touch and soothing demeanor. I had unspeakable pain for months and within one treatment my discomfort was relieved! I continue treatment to keep balance in my life. — Tari , Scottsdale, AZ business Holy Hill Acupucnture - Dr. Kim Submit a testimonial Acupuncture is very successful in treating the following health problems: Arthritis Asthma Back pain, Sciatica Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Depression, Anxiety, I.B.S. Drug, Alcohol, Nicotine Addictions Headache / Migraine Insommia Neck / Shoulder Pain PMS / Gynecological disorders / Infertility Pre/Post Stroke Symptoms Sports Injuries Most Chronic Disorders Get in touch Holy Hill Acupuncture - Dr Kim 1412 N Scottsdale Rd # 10 Scottsdale AZ 85257 USA (480) 730-4991 drkim@holyhillac.com My Personal Google+ My Business G+ Our Hours Monday: 8:30 am - 6:00 pm Tuesday: 8:30 am - 6:00 pm Wednesday: 1:00 pm - 6:00 pm Thursday: 8:30 am - 6:00 pm Friday: 8:30 am - 6:00 pm Saturday: 8:30 am - 11:30 am Sunday: Closed © 2005-2012 Holy Hill Acupuncture | All Rights Reserved | Find u