Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

When are antidepressants used as painkillers? Pain. Way out with pain therapy Pain. New methods of therapy for the spine Understand pain Treat pain Forget pain Dr. Reinhard Schneiderhan. Orthopedic Specialist. Pain Therapy Does every disc patient really have to undergo spine surgery? Dr. Medele Neurosurgery Our organization for the health of your spine General and special orthopedic methods of treatment General and special orthopedic treatments for back pain General and special diagnostics Journey to the clinics Out-patient Interventional Pain Therapy In-patient Interventional Pain Therapy Medicinal Pain Therapy Medication for medium pain NSAR Medication for strong and strongest pain Tablets or Drops: What works better? Patch against Pain When are antidepressants used as painkillers? What role do muscle relaxants play in pain therapy? Computertomographic- and image converter-aided Interventional Pain Therapy Minimally invasive epidural spinal column catheter technique by Dr. Schneiderhan Heat probe treatment of vertebral joints by Dr. Schneiderhan Heat probe treatment of the Dorsal Root Ganglion Discography and intra-disc injection procedure Micro Laser Treatment of Intervertebral Discs by Dr. Schneiderhan Pain therapy. Botulinum-Toxin When are antidepressants used as painkillers? When are antidepressants used as painkillers? Antidepressants  have their own way of suppressing pain. They change the perception of pain in the spinal cord as well as in the brain. A successful pain therapy is not only restricted to direct treatment at the cause of pain's origin, but also in the central nervous system and in the brain. For this reason, antidepressants have proven effective in particular with patients with chronic pain, because, for instance, they raise the limit of pain perception. More links on this topic: Visit our forum on back pain and spine related questions and search for: Antidepressants, painkillers What about treating chronic pain? Download your complete Book on back pain Continue reading ... What role do muscle relaxants play in pain therapy? Startseite >> Pain Therapy >> Medicinal Pain Therapy >> When are antidepressants us