Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Low Back Pain alternative medicine Norman 
Allan www.normanallan.com consultations 416 
928 9272 email ne wsletter biography herbs ask the doctor science blog Low Back Pain by Norman 
Allan Low Back Pain (LBP) is one of the most common 
human afflictions. 80% of the North American population see a doctor for treatment 
of low back pain at some point in their life and, indeed, at any particular time 
as many as 20% are suffering from low back pain. There are many varieties of 
low back pain - many presentations and many causes - and the symptoms don’t necessarily 
tell us too much about the cause. Low back pain may strike when you lift something 
and feel a twinge which might get slowly better or slowly worse. Or you may attempt 
to lift something heavy and suddenly find yourself in acute and severe pain: you 
may be disabled. You might simply bend forward to reach for something and be unable 
to straighten. You can wake up stricken. Low back pain can have a sudden or a 
gradual on-set. The pain can be local or may radiated down the back of the legs 
in the distribution of the sciatic nerve in which case it is called "sciatica". The external cause of low back pain can be lifting, overloading the spine, 
leading to a "failure": or a failure might be caused simply by an uncoordinated 
movement which compromises a joint and leads to muscle "splinting". The muscles 
go into spasm to "fix", to protect the joint, and then they typically take three 
days to relax. Less frequent causes of low back pain include "referred pain". 
For instance, the kidneys might refer pain to the high loins, or again, inflammation 
in the abdomen can cause irritation in the muscles of the back and this in turn 
can cause back pain. I believe the "lesion", the tissue damaged in low back 
pain, is most commonly either 1/ in the joint complex or 2/ the intervertebral 
disc (affecting the spinal nerve), and of these two common causes the former, 
the lesion to the joint, is much the most common. (In the literature other "lesion" 
are mentioned: ligaments, but these are, for the greatest part, part of the joint 
complex; and muscle and tendon tears, and yes indeed these may be part of the 
"lumbago" picture.) Discs : let’s speak first about discs. Though 
not the most common causes of low back pain, they can be troublesome and persistent. 
People in their twenties and thirties are most at risk. As you get older the risk 
decreases, perhaps because of the ageing of the disc itself. The disc is made 
up of two parts. The central third is a jelly-like "ball-bearing" called the nucleus 
pulposus. It is surrounded by a cord-work of ligaments, the annulus fibrosus. Failures, 
cracks, in the annulus fibrosus can lead to the protrusion of the nucleus pulposus 
from the disc. These are the "bulges" we hear so much about, and as the bulging 
proceeds we get "herniation" and "prolapse" of the disc. These failures in the 
annulus fibrosus are usually posterio-lateral and unfortunately this is precisely 
where a prolapse can impinge upon, and crush, a spinal nerves as it emerges from 
the spinal canal. This 
is the so-called "pinched nerve", but let us stress again that these pinched nerves 
are relatively rare. (What is commonly called a "pinched nerve" by the public, 
by doctors and by chiropractors alike are in fact "pinched" or compromised joints!). If you have a "slipped disc" there will be pain, there will be changes in 
the reflexes, and there will likely be radiation into the butt, the posterior 
thigh (and leg), and paraesthias (numbness and tingling). These signs will also 
very often be seen with the more common joint problems. They do not in themselves 
indicate a discal lesion. With a slipped disc there is almost always a reduction 
in "straight led raise" (SLR) - lying on your back you will be unable to raise 
the straight leg more than 20 to 40 degrees (instead of the normal 70 to 110 degrees). 
While reduced SLR may be seen with joint problems, the absence of reduced SLR 
strongly mitigates against a diagnosis of a discal lesion. Disc problems may 
occur with intense pain, sciatic radiation, lost reflexes, paraesthesias, debility 
- you may be stricken and unable to move much or function - and yet this is not 
in itself a medical emergence! The "radiations", paraesthesias, lost reflexes 
are what we call "soft neurological signs" - don’t panic. "Hard 
neurological signs" are 1. loss of sensation (but not numbness and/or tingling), 
2. loss of motor function (but not loss due to pain), and 3. muscle atrophy: and 
these hard signs warrent urgent medical attention. What to do : 
doctors used to urge bed rest and this may be unavoidable, but it is no longer 
recommended. Rather, as chiropractors have always urged, it is best to undertake 
as much gentle exercise as you can manage without causing further aggravation. JKW has a set of exercises for acute 
Low Back Pain that are proving to be very helpful. In my practice I have also 
found that extremely gentle CranioSacral -like traction 
is helpful. However, I would not recommend strong traction. Electrotherapy 
(including TNS: transcutaneous nerve stimulation, which you can use at home) can 
help with the pain. If pain-killers are "whatever gets you through the night", 
you may need to use them, but on the other hand, muscle relaxants are of no proven 
value. Acupuncture can be helpful. I believe that the Gonstead Technique 
of chiropractic (were the vertebra is nudged forward) can help reposition the 
spine and take pressure off the disc, but rotary chiropractic adjustments are 
strongly counter-indicated. Clinical studies suggest that seeing a chiropractor 
is slightly better than seeing an MD but not much better than seeing no one at 
all. You will probably need to see someone for a diagnosis and for reassurance, 
so find a chiro or a doctor with a good bed-side manner and a lot of integrity. The "slipped disc" typically takes about six weeks before recovery is noticeable. 
Recurrence is not the rule, but can happen. The Medical Emergency : 
"hard neurological signs" include 1/ loss of feeling/reduced sensation in the 
lower limb, 2/ loss of motor function not due to pain , and 3/ muscle wasting. 
If you observe these signs of frank nerve compression you need to see a neurologist 
or an orthopaedic surgeon as soon as possible! Can surgery help? Yes, but rarely. 
Perhaps in 1% of cases. More often it is irrelevant and risky. The "bulging disc", 
as often as not, is asymptomatic (see for example: Deyo’s "Low-Back Pain" article 
in the Scientific American ). 
Operating simply because there are signs on X-ray or MRI is dangerous to say the 
least. Low Back surgery "fails" about a quarter of the time; helps about a quarter 
to the time - but it is sometimes essential. So… find a doctor you can trust. Facet and Sacroiliac Joints : joints are the most extremely 
sensitive of tissues. If you want to physically subdue someone you will probable 
do so by compromising one of their joints, for example, twisting their arm. This 
is because if a joint is not perfectly in place and functioning smoothly it will 
soon degenerate. Therefore, for their protection, they are extremely well innervated. 
(Before antibiotics we used to see a condition called "Charcott’s joint": in syphilis 
"position sense" is lost and as a consequence the weight baring joints totally 
disintegrate.) Because the integrity of the joints is so important they are exquisitely 
sensitive. Have you ever put a finger "out of joint"? To me the very thought is 
painful. In "medicalese" a dislocation is called a "luxation": in chiropractic 
when a joint is not fully dislocated but is out of place we call it a "subluxation". 
As indicated above, a joint out of place is trouble. It is trouble because it 
leads to degeneration and its trouble because it causes pain or discomfort. The 
pain in turn can cause further problems such as spasming in the muscles associated 
with the joint. And there may also be more complex complications. Irritation at 
any spinal level will tend to cause "an increased sympathetic tone" at that level. 
It is as though that spinal level is "adrenalated" and the organs at that level 
will be more "excited" and, at the same time, less well perfused with blood. (An 
example of this was a young lad who fell out of a tree subtly injured his back 
and ended up with severe asthma through a disharmonious excitation of the lungs: 
see Gonstead technique.) On another occasion leaning forward to lift something from the trunk 
of the car I seized up with immediate and severe back pain. I was a chiropractic 
student at the time. A classmate diagnosed a sacro-iliac joint "fixation" and 
an adjustment again brought instant relief. Other dramatic instances of low 
back pain patently caused and cured by "joints" include a young man who slipped 
on the ice - his wife was in hospital delivering their second child, he was at 
home looking after the first, but he was now disabled. One adjustment had him 
fit again. I recall a young lady who came to see me with chronic low back pain. 
We adjusted her "L5" in one session and her sacro-iliac in another. After this 
I didn’t see her for half a year. I bumped into her six months later when she 
introduced me to her friend as the man who had changed her life. Not only was 
chronic back pain gone, but fifteen years of painful periods cleared up! (Here, 
through the mechanism alluded to above, a painful back was adding to the irritation 
of the womb.) These rapid recoveries, though common, are not necessarily typical. 
Where there has been injury to the compromised joint it may take time for that 
injury to heal (and until the injured tissue heals the pain can cause spasms which 
can further compromise and irritate the joint: a vicious circle. There are treatments 
which can help with this healing: see sprains and strains coming soon to this site). There are also more subtle treatments which 
may help with chronic conditions. M.V. had chronic back pain and chiropractic 
had not helped him much, but when we used CranioSacral Therapy in conjunction 
with the Gonstead Chiropractic Technique of chiropractic he recovered quickly 
and stayed pain free. (Feldenkrais, Alexander, and Rolfing are techniques that 
address similar issues and might also be useful.) Not all back pain responds 
to these "conservative treatments". With chronic, intractable pain you may need 
to try more "heroic measures" such as nerve blocks or epidurals. It is difficult 
to predict where and when these procedures will help. They are measures of last 
resort. You need to find doctors, traditional and alternative, who you can trust. The bottom line : if you have low back pain and it is not a medical 
emergency (as explained above this is loss of sensation, loss of power, muscle 
wasting) it is worth trying chiropractic or osteopathy. Where the problem is more 
extreme (bordering on the "medical emergency") you will need expert advise (probably 
a good chiropractor and an orthopaedic surgeon or neurologist), though 
you may still have to wait on your own slow healing. And, take note: if you 
are well, or once you are well again, exercise and stretching are your best protection. For more information ask the doctor at n