
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 12:44:27 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Vascular Dementia - Treatment InfoMedSearch Medical - Health Information and Search Services Home | About Us | Online Newsletter | Search Services Vascular Dementia - Binswanger's Disease Diagnosis, Imaging, Screening General Information Guidelines Internet Sites Risk Factors Treatment Treatment is updated with the most recent articles listed on top. To view only the last month's articles	 for the other sub-topics, go to our Monthly Online Newsletters page If you have any questions regarding our Search Reports, please contact us at info@infomedsearch.com . InfoMedSearch Monthly Newsletter Alerts Save Time. Stay updated monthly. Read our selected articles on a monthly basis. Sign up for our monthly Newsletter alerts - view only our last month's selections. Newsletter Notification Service Sign-Up Vascular Dementia NIH - Medical Encyclopedia Multi-infarct dementia "Multi-infarct dementia (MID) is the most common form of vascular dementia, which is a deterioration in mental function caused by strokes. 'Multi-infarct' means that multiple areas in the brain have been injured due to a lack of blood.  It is estimated that 10 - 20% of all dementias are caused by strokes, making MID the third most common cause of dementia in the elderly, behind Alzheimer's disease and DLBD (dementia of Lewy bodies). MID affects men more often than women. The disorder usually affects people over 55, with the average onset at age 65.  Memory loss is often an early symptom of the disorder, followed by trouble making judgments. This often progresses to delirium, hallucinations, and thinking problems.  MID may be misdiagnosed as Alzheimer's, or may be found in addition to Alzheimer's disease.  The disorder is diagnosed based on history, symptoms, signs, and tests, and by ruling out other causes of dementia, including dementia due to metabolic causes. History may include a past stroke or hypertension. History of the dementia often shows stepwise progression of the condition -- periods of abrupt decline alternating with stable periods of minimal decline. Other characteristics that suggest multi-infarct dementia rather than Alzheimer's disease include: abrupt onset, physical complaints, emotional changes, and localized neurologic signs  " Highlighted Article Risk factors for vascular dementia in elderly psychiatric outpatients with preserved cognitive functions. (J Neurol Sci. 2007) "The clinical conditions related to risk factors for VaD were hypertension (48.7%), heart disease (30.8%), hypercholesterolemia (25.6%), diabetes mellitus (23.1%), stroke (12.8%), tryglyceride (12.8%), and obesity (5.1%). In terms of lifestyle, smoking (19.2%), alcohol abuse (16.7%), and sedentarism (14.1%) were other risk factors found. Definite risk factors for VaD were found in 83.3% of the patients." CONTINUE YOUR INFOMEDSEARCH RESEARCH with our previous InfoMedLinks. Start with InfoMedLinks 2008 . Custom Search Notes View Treatment Guidelines from previous years. Go to Treatment for each year. Vascular Dementia - Binswanger's Disease Daily Treatment Report In this Report: Cognitive Therapy-CBT-Psychotherapy Device Therapy Drug Side-Effects and Interactions Drugs Exercise General Information Guidelines Immunotherapy Internet Sites Nutrition Other Radiotherapy Supplements-Vitamins-CAM Surgery Transplantation Cognitive Therapy-CBT-Psychotherapy Device Therapy Drug Side-Effects and Interactions Drugs Exercise General Information Guidelines Immunotherapy Internet Sites Treatment Information DrugBank (drug structure) FDA - MedWatch (Drug Alerts) Drug-Food-Supplement Information Drug Information Online Drug Interaction Checker DrugDigest (drug interactions) FDA - Drug Interactions: What You Should Know NIH - Botanical Dietary Supplements: Background Information NIH - Drug, Supplements, and Herbal Information NIH - Herbal Supplements: Consider Safety, Too NIH - Medicines NIH - Vitamin and Mineral Supplement Fact Sheets Nutrition Other Other Treatments Experimental Radiotherapy Supplements-Vitamins-CAM Surgery Transplantation Go to the top Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Research | Suggestions | Subscriptions | Contact Us © 2004-2010, Info