Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

World Without Cancer - Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk - B17 Laetrile Vitamin B17 * When open a local search file in Internet Explorer on Windows XP SP 2, the content may be blocked. To open the file correctly, please click the Information Bar on the top of the browser window, and select "Allow Blocked Content". * There will not be such problem after you upload the file to a web server. * To display this page, you need a web browser with JavaScript support. Home | Introduction | Site Map | Success Stories | Research | Products | FAQ | Contact Us | WWC Audio | • Introduction • Important Warning • About Vitamin B17 • Vitamin B17 as Preventative • Metabolic Therapy in Cancer • B17 In Metabolic Therapy • Laetrile and Cyanide • Graphic on Action of B17 • Frequently Asked Questions • B17 Therapy Components • Accessory Supplements • B17 Therapy Overview • Therapies and Protocols • What is in B17 Therapy? • Maintenance Dosages • Accessory Therapies • Positive Thinking • Implementing Changes • Behaviour of Tumours • Criteria For Evaluation • B17 - Sickle Cell Anaemia • Fluoridation-linked cancer • Contacts • In God We Trust • References • More Studies, Research THE 
					LAETRILE "QUACKS"(?) by G. Edward Griffin (Book World without Cancer - Chapter 8 ) The names, 
					professional standings, medical achievements, and clinical 
					findings of some of the more prominent doctors who endorse 
					Laetrile; the beneficial side-effects produced by its use; a 
					suggested anti-cancer diet; and a brief description of 
					vitamin B15. “Laetrile is 
					goddamned quackery!” Such was the pronouncement of Helene 
					Brown, president of the American Cancer Society of 
					California. ( 1 )  As early as 1974, 
					there were at least twenty-six published papers written by 
					well-known physicians who had used Laetrile in the treatment 
					of their own patients and who have concluded ( 2 ) 
					that Laetrile is both safe and effective in the treatment of 
					cancer.  In addition, there are the voluminous private 
					records of physi-cians who have used it clinically but have 
					never published their findings except in letters to their 
					colleagues or in public lectures or interviews. The American 
					Cancer Society and other spokesmen. for orthodox medicine 
					would have us believe that only quacks and crackpots have 
					endorsed this conclusion. But the doctors who conducted 
					these experiments and those who share their conclusions are 
					not quacks. Here are just a few of the names: 1. 
					“The Pain Exploiters; The Victimizing of Desperate Cancer 
					Patients,” Today’s Health, Nov., 1973, p. 28. 2. A complete list 
					of these papers is contained in The Laetriles/Nitrilosides, 
					op. cit., pp. 84, 85. In West Germany there is Hans Nieper, M.D., former Director 
					of the Department of Medicine at the Silbersee Hospital in 
					Hanover. He is a pioneer in the medical use of cobalt and is 
					credited with developing the anti-cancer drug, 
					cyclophosphamide. He is the originator of the concept of 
					“electrolyte carriers” in the prevention of cardiac 
					necrosis. He was formerly the head of the Aschaffenburg 
					Hospital Laboratory for chemical circulatory research. He is 
					listed in Who’s Who in World Science and has been the 
					Director of the German Society for Medical Tumor Treatment. 
					He is one of the world’s most famous and respected cancer 
					specialists.  During a visit to the United States in 
					1972, Dr. Nieper told news reporters: After more than twenty years of such specialized work, I 
					have found the nontoxic Nitrilosides—that is, Laetrile—far 
					superior to any other known cancer treatment or 
					preventative. In my opinion it is the only existing 
					possibility for the ultimate control of cancer. In Canada there is N.R. Bouziane, M.D., former Director of 
					Research Laboratories at St. Jeanne d’Arc Hospital in 
					Montreal and a member of the hospital’s tumor board in 
					charge of chemotherapy. He graduated magna cum laude in 
					medicine from the University of Montreal. He also received a 
					doctorate in science from the University of Montreal and St. 
					Joseph’s Univer-sity, an affiliate of Oxford University in 
					New Brunswick. He was a Fellow in chemistry and a Fellow in 
					hematology, and certified in clinical bacteriology, 
					hematology and biochemistry from the college. He also was 
					Dean of the American Association of Bio-Analysts. After the first series of tests with Laetrile shortly after 
					it was introduced, Dr. Bouziane reported: We always have a diagnosis based on histology [microscopic 
					analysis of the tissue]. We have never undertaken a case 
					without histological proof of cancer....  In our 
					investigation, some terminal cases were so hopeless that 
					they did not even receive what we consider the basic dose of 
					thirty grams. Most cases, however, became ambulatory and 
					some have in this short time resumed their normal activities 
					on a maintenance dose.( 1 ) 1. “The 
					Laetrile Story,” op. cit. p. 3. Also Cancer News Journal, 
					Jan./Apr., 1971, p. 20. In the Philippines there is Manuel Navarro, M.D., former 
					Professor of Medicine and Surgery at the University of Santo 
					Tomas in Manila; an Associate Member of the National 
					Research Council of the Philippines; a Fellow of the 
					Philippine College of Physicians, the Philippine Society of 
					Endocrinology and Metabolism; and a member of the Philippine 
					Medical Association, the Philippine Cancer Society, and many 
					other medical groups. He has been recognized internationally 
					as a cancer researcher and has over one-hundred major 
					scientific papers to his credit, some of which have been 
					read before the International Cancer Congress. In 1971 Dr. 
					Navarro wrote: I ... have specialized in oncology [the study of tumors] for 
					the past eighteen years. For the same number of years I have 
					been using Laetrile—amygdalin in the treatment of my cancer 
					patients. During this eighteen year period I have treated a 
					total of over five hundred patients with Laetrile—amygdalin 
					by various routes of administra-tion, including the oral and 
					the I.V. The majority of my patients receiving Laetrile—amygdalin 
					have been in a terminal state when treatment with this 
					material commenced.  It is my carefully considered 
					clinical judgment, as a practicing oncologist and researcher 
					in this field, that I have obtained most significant and 
					encouraging results with the use of Laetrile—amygdalin in 
					the treatment of terminal cancer patients, and that these 
					results are comparable or superior to the results I have 
					obtained with the use of the more toxic standard cytotoxic 
					agents. 1. 
					Letter from Dr. Navarro to Mr. Andrew McNaughton, The 
					McNaughton Foundation, dated January 8, 1971, published in 
					the Cancer News Journal, Jan/April, 1971. pp. 19. 20. In Mexico there is Ernesto Contreras, M.D., who, for over 
					three decades, has operated the Good Samaritan Cancer Clinic 
					(now called the Oasis 
					Hospital ) in Tijuana. He is one of Mexico’s most 
					distinguished medical figures. He received postgraduate 
					training at Harvard’s Children’s Hospital in Boston. He has 
					served as Professor of Histology and Pathology at the 
					Mexican Army Medical School and as the chief pathologist at 
					the Army Hospital in Mexico City.  Dr. Contreras was 
					introduced to Laetrile in 1963 by a terminal cancer patient 
					from the United States who brought it to his. attention and 
					urged him to treat her with it. The woman recovered, and Dr. 
					Contreras began extensive investigation of its properties 
					and use. Since that time he has treated many thousands of 
					cancer patients, most of whom are American citizens who have 
					been denied the freedom to use Laetrile in their own country 
					Dr. Contreras has summarized his experiences with vitamin 
					therapy as follows: The palliative action 
					[improving the comfort and well-being of the patient] is in 
					about 60% of the cases. Frequently, enough to be 
					significant, I see arrest of the disease or even regression 
					in some 15% (1) of the very advanced cases. 1. 
					Cancer News Journal, Jan. /April, 1971, p. 20. We must bear 
					in mind that these are terminal patients—people who have 
					been given up as hopeless by orthodox medicine. Fifteen 
					percent recovery in that group is a most impressive 
					accom-plishment. In Japan there is Shigeaki Sakai, a prominent physician in 
					Tokyo. In a paper published in the October 1963 Asian 
					Medical Journal, Dr. Sakai reported: Administered to cancer patients, Laetrile has proven to be 
					quite free from any harmful side-effects, and I would say 
					that no anti-cancer drug could make a cancerous patient 
					improve fAster than Laetrile. It goes without saying that 
					Laetrile controls cancer and is quite effective wherever it 
					is located. In Italy there is Professor Etore Guidetti, M.D., of the 
					University of Turin Medical School. Dr. Guidetti spoke 
					before the Conference of the International Union Against 
					Cancer held in Brazil in 1954 and revealed how his use of Laetrile in 
					terminal cancer patients had caused the destruction of a 
					wide variety of tumors including those of the uterus, 
					cervix, rectum, and breast. “In some cases,” he said, “one 
					has been able to observe a group of fulminating and 
					cauliflower-like neoplastic masses resolved very rapidly” He 
					reported that, after giving Laetrile to patients with lung 
					cancer, he had been “able to observe, with the aid of 
					radiography, a regression of the neoplasm or the 
					metastases.” After Guidetti’s 
					presentation, an American doctor rose in the audience and 
					announced that Laetrile had been investigated in the United 
					States and found to be worthless. Dr. Guidetti replied, “I 
					do not care what was determined in the United States. I am 
					merely reporting what I saw in my own clinic.”(2) In Belgium there is Professor Joseph H. Maisin, Sr., M.D., 
					of the University of Louvain where he was Director of the 
					Institute of Cancer. He also was President Emeritus of the 
					International League Against Cancer which conducts the 
					International Cancer Congress every four years. 2. 
					Cancer News Journal, Jan/April, 1971, p. 19. And in the United States there are such respected names as 
					Dr. Dean Burk of the National Cancer Institute; Dr. John A. 
					Morrone of the Jersey City Medical Center; Dr. Ernst T. 
					Krebs, Jr., who developed Laetrile; Dr. John A. Richardson, 
					the courageous San Francisco physician who challenged the 
					government’s right to prevent Laetrile from being used in 
					the United States; (1) Dr. Philip E. Binzel, Jr., a 
					physician in Washington Court House, Ohio, who has used 
					Laetrile for over twenty years with outstand-ing success; 
					and many others from over twenty countries with equally 
					impeccable credentials. Most of these practitioners have reported independently that 
					patients usually experience several important side effects. 
					These include a normalizing of blood pressure in 
					hypertensive patients, improved appetite, an increase in the 
					hemoglobin and red blood cell count, the elimination of the 
					fetor (which is the unpleasant odor often associated with 
					terminal cancer patients), and above all, a release from 
					pain without narcotics. Even if the patient has started 
					Laetrile therapy too late to be saved, this last effect is a 
					merciful blessing in itself. One must 
					not conclude that the only value in Laetrile is to improve 
					the quality of life as the patient is dying. Extension of 
					the length of life is the grand prize for many patients. Dr. 
					Binzel, in his book, Alive and Well, compared the long-term 
					survival statistics of his own cancer patients with the 
					survival rates of those who undergo orthodox therapies. His 
					study involved 108 patients representing 23 different types 
					of cancer. This is what he reported: This means that out of 108 
					patients with metastatic cancer, over a period of 18 years, 
					76 of those patients (70.4%) did not die of their disease. 
					Again, even if I concede that the 9 patients who died of 
					“cause unknown” did, indeed, die from their cancer, I am 
					looking at 62.1% [long-term survival].... If you consider only those patients who have survived five 
					years or more, this means that my results were 287% better 
					than those reported by the American Cancer Society for the 
					treatment of metastatic cancer by “orthodox” methods 
					alone.(2) 1. 
					See John A. Richardson, M.D., and Patricia Griffin, R.N., 
					Laetrile Case Histories; The Richardson Cancer Clinic 
					Experience (Westlake Village, CA:  American Media, 
					1977). 2. Philip E. Binzel, 
					M.D., Alive and Well: One Doctor’s Experience with Nutrition 
					in the Treatment of Cancer Patients (Westlake Village, CA: 
					American Media, 1994), p. 113. The following graph, taken from Dr. Binzel’s book, Alive and 
					Well, shows his comparison between nutritional and 
					conventional therapies. Primary Cancer represents patients 
					with only one cancer location. Metastatic Cancer represents 
					patients whose cancer has spread to multiple locations. In addition to the clinical results obtained by these 
					physicians in the treatment of humans, there have been at 
					least five carefully controlled experiments on mice that 
					have shown definite Laetrile anti-cancer action. These 
					include: (1) the experiments done by Scind Laboratories of 
					San Francisco in 1968, (2) the studies completed at the 
					Pasteur Institute (Paris) in 1971, (3) those at the 
					Institute von Ardenne (Dresden, Germany) in 1973, (4) the 
					experiments at the Southern Research Institute in 1973, and 
					(5) numerous trials at Sloan-Kettering from 1972 to 1977. In 
					spite of all this, spokesmen for orthodox medicine still 
					proclaim there is no evidence that Laetrile works. The 
					evidence is everywhere.(1) 1. 
					“See How They Lie, See How They Lie,” by Dr. Dean Burk, 
					Cancer News Journal, Vol. 9, No. 3 (June, 1974), p. 5. While the use of Laetrile alone has proven to be effective 
					in many instances, even better results usually are obtained 
					with supplemental therapy as well. The late John Richardson, 
					M.D., of San Francisco achieved one of the highest recovery 
					rates among Laetrile practitioners in the entire world. 
					Here, in his own words, is the advice he gave to his 
					patients: Vegetable Kingdom: In the vegetable kingdom eat anything and everything that is 
					edible and for which you have no idiosyncrasy Eat everything 
					whole. Eat all of the edible parts of the food— especially 
					the roughage. This food is preferably eaten raw; but when 
					you cannot tolerate it raw, cook the food just sufficiently 
					to make it tolerable. Animal Kingdom: Eat any or all fish as fresh as possible and lightly cooked 
					in the absence of animal fats (vegetable oils may be used). 
					Eat the skin-free meat of poultry. Whatever does not fall 
					within this formula, forget it. Don’t eat it. The formula is 
					all-inclusive, so it’s not necessary to mention: no dairy 
					products, beef, mutton, pork, bacon, ham, etc. The liver is to 
					neoplastic diseases what the heart is to circulatory 
					diseases. The liver is central. Adequate liquid intake with fresh juices plain or carbonated. Vitamin Supplements: 
					Vit. C, 1500 mg to 5000 mg; 800 — 1200 International Units 
					of d-alpha tocopherol (vitamin E) plus a good brand of 
					therapeutic multi-vitamins, preferably of organic or natural 
					derivatives.  Toxins of all kinds to be avoided 
					including, tobacco, alcohol. Discourage coffee, 
					tranquilizers, sedatives, analgesics. Antibiotics OK. Rest 
					is important while exercise should spare the affected area. You should include Vitamin B15 (pangamic acid) which detoxifies the liver as a 
					transmethylating agent, and increases the oxygen uptake 
					potential of the tissues, and since trophoblast lives by the 
					fermentative process, the rationale for the B15 is obvious. 
					Pancreatic Enzyme Supplementation: We find dessicated 
					pancreas substances to be an effective supplement.(1) The dietary restrictions prescribed by Dr. Richardson are 
					for those who have cancer. It is not recommended for healthy 
					persons because it is unnecessarily restrictive. For those 
					who do not have cancer, a general diet containing foods rich 
					in nitriloside content(2) should be adequate. Here is what 
					Dr. Krebs suggests: 1. 
					Open letter to interested doctors dated Nov. 1972, revised 
					1974; Griffin, Private Papers, op. cit. 2. Again, we highly 
					recommend June de Spain’s The Little Cyanide Cookbook, op. 
					cit. For breakfast, gruel of buckwheat, millet, and flaxseed, 
					with elderberry jelly on millet toast. All this accompanied 
					by stewed prunes.  For lunch, lima beans or a succotash 
					with chick peas; millet rolls with plum jam; elderberry 
					wine. For dinner, a salad with bean and millet sprouts; dinner 
					rolls of buckwheat and millet sweetened with sorghum 
					molasses extracted from sorghum cane; rabbit which, 
					hopefully, fed on clover; and after dinner apricot, peach, 
					cherry, or plum brandy originally prepared from crushing the 
					entire or whole fruit.  Nibbling on any member of the 
					raspberry family, macadamia nuts, and bamboo sprouts is also 
					suggested. Dr. Krebs has pointed out that in the Old Testament there is 
					a formula for the preparation of grains for bread, and it 
					speaks of six ingredients, five of which are rich in 
					nitrilosides. They are barley, beans, lentils, millet and 
					vetch (chickpea or garbanzo beans).(1) The intended balance of nature does not require a vast 
					amount of vitamin B17 in the daily diet any more than it is 
					required of the other vitamins. It is possible that if one 
					did no more than eat the seeds from an apple or two a day he 
					could obtain an adequate supply. But that would probably be 
					bordering on the low side, especially considering that, in 
					westernized society, B17 is not generally available in other 
					foods to supplement it. So it probably would be advisable to 
					obtain a higher level of intake than that. Obviously, some of the foods mentioned by Dr. Krebs are not 
					readily available to the average city dweller. As a 
					substitute, many people simply have adopted the habit of 
					eating six to twelve apricot or peach seeds each day, or 
					have ground them in their blenders and used them as a light 
					seasoning for cereals, salads, and the like. For those who 
					dislike the slight bitter taste of these seeds, they can be 
					ground up and loaded into empty capsules. Which means that 
					no one need be deprived of this vitamin if he really wants 
					it. Vitamin B15 has been mentioned several times as an important 
					auxiliary therapy to vitamin B17, and there often is 
					confusion between the two. So let’s take a moment to 
					differentiate.  Vitamin B15 sometimes is called 
					pangamic acid. Pan implies everywhere and gami means seed. 
					It was so named because it is found in small amounts almost 
					everywhere on earth in seeds and usually in the company of 
					other members of the vitamin-B complex.  Like B17, it 
					too was discovered by Dr. E.T. Krebs, Jr., while exploring 
					the chemical properties of apricot kernels in 1952. It could 
					be said that it was an unexpected bonus or by-product of the 
					search for vitamin B17. The best way to understand the effect of vitamin B15 is to 
					think of it as instant oxygen. It increases the oxygen 
					efficiency of the entire body and aids in the detoxification 
					of waste products. Since cancer cells do not thrive in the 
					presence of oxygen but depend rather on fermentation of 
					glucose, it is probable that B15, indirectly, is an enemy of 
					cancer. Vitamin B15 is not widely known or used in the United 
					States. The reason is almost an exact parallel to the 
					Laetrile story. The government officially has refused to 
					recognize that B15 is of value. Meanwhile it is used 
					extensively in many other countries. Russia in particular is 
					far ahead of the United States in the use of this substance 
					and has conducted extensive research into its uses. In fact, 
					in 1965 the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences released a 205-page 
					symposium of its findings up to that date. In 1968 the 
					Scientific Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Health 
					unanimously ratified all the original claims in the report 
					and authorized the Soviet drug industry to begin 
					mass-production of B15 for general use. It has been reported that the Russian athletes have been 
					given heavy doses of B15 during their participation at the 
					Olympics. If this is true, there is good  reason for 
					it. Experiments have shown that this substance, although 
					just a natural food factor, greatly increases physical 
					strength and stamina. When rats were put into tubs of water 
					and forced to swim, those that had been vitaminized with B15 
					were all still swimming long after the others had fatigued 
					and drowned. When other rats were put into glass chambers 
					from which oxygen gradually was removed, the vitaminized 
					rats lived much longer—thus on less oxygen—than the control 
					group. The Soviet scientists disclosed that vitamin B15 is 
					effective in such areas as circulatory problems, heart 
					conditions, elevated blood cholesterol, skin disorders, 
					hardening of the arteries, bron-chial asthma, diabetes 
					mellitus, and wound healing. They were especially emphatic 
					in their findings that B15 was effective in retarding the 
					aging process! Professor Shpirt of the City Clinical Hospital No. 60 in Moscow concluded: “I believe the time 
					will come when there will be calcium pangamate (B15) next to 
					the salt shaker on the table of every family with people 
					past forty.”(1) 1. 
					For a detailed analysis of these findings, see Vitamin B5 (Pangamic 
					Acid); Properties, Functions, and Use. (Moscow: Science 
					Publishing House, 1965), translated and reprinted by 
					McNaughton Foundation, Sausalito, Calif. Doctors who wish to use vitamin B15 in America have been 
					forced to operate on the fringe of the law because their 
					govern-ment has harassed its manufacturers and blocked its 
					movement in commerce. As Dr. Krebs observed: Our 
					concern is with vitamin B15—a natural constituent of natural 
					foods, one that experimentation has shown to be of definite 
					value in increasing resistance to disease and in maintaining 
					healthy functioning of the body as well. Pangamic acid is giving the people of Russia, Japan, 
					Yugoslavia, France, Spain, and Germany a tremendous health 
					and longevity advantage. But it is not available to us in 
					the land in which it was first discovered. Fortunately, there is some evidence that B15 is finally 
					becoming recognized by several of the more prestigious 
					medical institu-tions in spite of government obstacles. Let 
					us hope that the trend rapidly continues. It is possible that B15 will be recognized and accepted by 
					orthodox medicine long before B17. This is because there is 
					less vested interest to overcome. There have been no broad 
					deroga-tory pronouncements by the AMA and, hence, no 
					reputations are at stake. But, in time, the sheer weight of 
					the facts will force the acceptance of B17 as well. And the 
					men who now bear the brunt of controversy, professional 
					ostracism, and social scorn, will emerge, not as quacks, but 
					as the great medical pioneers of their day. 2001 
			Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk By Accessing this web site you accept 
			all its terms and conditions. ©Copyright 2000 - Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk - PO Box 2038 - Leigh-on-Sea - SS9 2ZB - 
			UK Home | Introduction | Site Map | Success St