<http://www.methodsofhealing.com/?p=2150>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural Ways to Treat Eczema Health News Healing Conditions Health Courses Nutrition Types of Healing Health Categories Addictions Alternative Medicine Beauty Chinese Medicine Diet Fitness Guests Posts Health Current Events Health Food Health Problems Herbs Mental Pets Sexual Health Video Weight Loss Women's Health Health News Archives February 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 Health Videos A Healthy Heart through Fasting? What is Charcot Marie Tooth Disease? Young Athletes and Heart Attacks What Are Heart Stents? What is Cancer Cachexia? Health Cover for 8 Million Chinese People Teaching Your Child How To Control Anger Guide to Kettlebell Routines How to Get Rid of Back Aches During Pregnancy Effect of Hangovers on Your Health 11 Unbearable But Necessary “Bear Grylls” Food Sources Natural Ways to Treat Eczema More Health News HGH in Sports Relieving the Pain of Fibromyalgia With Yoga Is Ecstasy the new medical panacea? Medicinal Properties in Cannabis Possible Pharma Cure for Sarcopenia Eczema is a troublesome condition typically associated with infancy. The skin problem is chronic, leading to dry, rough, red or scaly patches. The patches can be tough and itchy and at times, blisters, seepage and crusting may form. Eczema goes by other names including: •	Atopic eczema •	Infantile eczema •	Atopic dermatitis Babies may develop eczema on the face, knees and elbows. Sometimes the breakouts appear in the creases of the elbows and behind the knees. The condition is less frequent in adults, and it tends to appear behind the knees or on the inner creases of the elbows. The itchy condition can be very uncomfortable, making natural remedies for eczema very desirable. Eczema Treatments Topical treatments for eczema can take the sting out of the irritated skin. •	Witch hazel is a very popular choice that many people have used for this condition. The topical treatment is a natural antiseptic that has anti-inflammatory properties. •	Licorice is not quite as popular as witch hazel but this topical treatment can soothe the irritated skin. •	Chamomile is well known for its soothing properties. This natural anti-inflammatory is a nice choice for a topical treatment for the skin condition. •	Aloe vera is a soothing ointment that penetrates the surface of the skin, reaching deep layers. Aloe is a popular choice for bites, stings and burns because of its healing properties. Herbal remedies for eczema should be used with the guidance of a physician. In some cases, allergic reactions can occur. Some individuals may find the condition worsening when using herbal skin treatments. Dietary Treatments for Eczema Diet can play a role in eczema breakouts as well. Probiotics is emerging as a possible treatment for the skin disorder. Probiotics are microbial organisms (bacteria) that may be able to prevent harmful bacteria from spreading. The harmful bacteria can affect the immune system, possibly leading to skin conditions like eczema. The good bacteria may be effective as anti-allergy agent. Taking a probiotic supplement can help but many like to eat yogurt to up the levels of the immune-boosting bacteria in the digestive tract. Women who are pregnant with babies that are high risk for developing eczema may want to discuss protiotics with their physicians. Infants are at risk for developing the skin condition if allergies like hay fever and eczema exist in the family. Infants and children that have eczema may or may not benefit from using probiotics. Parents who want to explore this option should discuss the approach with their children’s pediatrician. The use of probiotics is not appropriate for every individual. Ways to Prevent Eczema Breakouts Preventing breakouts is ideal for people who have the tendency to break out with eczema symptoms. Some of the following suggestions can help in some cases. •	Do not allow the skin to become too hot •	Avoid excess moisture •	Keep clothing away from skin that appears to be breaking out •	Wash clothes in fragrance-free detergent •	Avoid using fabric softener •	Use mild, perfume-free soap •	Rinse thoroughly after cleansing area Some people may experience breakouts when they engage in certain activities or eat certain foods but none have been directly linked to the skin condition. Related Posts Is There a Link Between Gluten and Eczema? Recent studies have found that certain food allergies could play a role in the condition known as Eczema. In fact, many people who have Eczema don’t realize that a gluten allergy... Eczema Treatment for Your Face Eczema is inflammation of the skin, which causes dry, itchy patches and rashes. It typically occurs on the arms or behind the knees, but it isn’t uncommon for the condition to... Can Acupuncture Help Heal Eczema? Acupuncture for Eczema - A Possible Cure?
Eczema is defined by the Dictionary of Cell and Molecular Biology as "a pruritic papulovesicular dermatitis occurring as a reaction to... How to Prevent Eczema Eczema, also known as Atopic Dermatitis, is an inflammation of the skin that causes a great deal of itching. Some adults have eczema, but it is more common in babies and children,... Alternatives For Treating Irritating Skin Conditions Many people suffer from skin disorders; one of the most common is Eczema. Although this may not seem like a serious condition, if you ask anyone suffering from it then they will... Eric Cho. August 16th, 2009 no comments No Responses to “Natural Ways to Treat Eczema” 1 smilinggreenmom Says: August 16th, 2009 at 11:01 pm Thanks so much for this informative article on Eczema! Our family has completely changed because of our little boy’s Eczema and allergies. It has been a very looong road for us and most importantly for him. I am happy to hear that you are sharing the benefits of whole and healthy foods and especially probiotics. We have experienced an answer to prayer when we started our little guy on Vidazorb kids chewable probiotics! They are incredible and have truly helped our son so much. He now looks and feels so much better and we are all so happy!! Thanks again! Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Popular Posts The Effects of Smoking Weed Why Do Indians “Smell Bad?” The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning The Stages of Dying From Congestive Heart Failure How Long Does It Take To Cure Pneumonia How To Enlarge Breasts Naturally Can Smoking Weed Cause Weight Loss? Disadvantages of Being a Vegetarian 7 Steps to Stop Smoking Cannabis How to Get Rid of the High after Smoking Weed Top 10 Disadvantages of Breastfeeding How Do You Make Your Own Shampoo? Marijuana vs Alcohol – Behind the Wheel Causes and Treatment of Strawberry Birthmarks How To Get Rid Of Old Acne Scars MethodsOfHealing Facebook Group MethodsOfHealing on Facebook Recent Comments Dragon born on The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning Reece Keenan on Medical Tests on Lab Rats – Right or Wrong? Deb on Stress Induced Lactose Intolerance corina rostas on 5 Natural Masks for Skin Rejuvenation amjad on What is the Best Homeopathic Medicine before Sex? white man on Why Do Indians “Smell Bad?” Jill on Swedish Bitters John Smith on The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning bob m on The Effects of Smoking Weed WHITNEY HOUSTON LOL on The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning Ruby on The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning izabella on The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning John Smith on The Advantages And Disadvantages Of Cloning Angela on Why Do Indians “Smell Bad?” White Man on Why Do Indians “Smell Bad?” About Advertising Cont