Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 21:19:18 GMT
Connection: keep-alive

Pneumonia Symptoms, Treatment (Viral, Bacterial), Causes, Complications and Vaccine by MedicineNet.com MedicineNet.com About Us | Privacy Policy | Site Map February 15, 2012 Home Slideshow Pictures Image Collection Quizzes Diseases & Conditions Symptom Checker Procedures & Tests Medications MedTerms Dictionary Pet Health Slideshow Pictures All Slideshows Newest Slideshows Pet Health Slideshows Featured Slideshow Sexual Health Surprising Health Benefits of Sex View Slideshow » Image Collection (categories) Allergic Skin Disorders Bacterial Skin Diseases Bites and Infestations Diseases of Pigment Fungal Skin Disease Medical Anatomy and Illustrations Noncancerous, Precancerous & Cancerous Tumors Oral Health Conditions Papules, Scales, Plaques and Eruptions Scalp, Hair and Nails Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Vascular, Lymphatic and Systemic Conditions Viral Skin Disease Additional Skin Conditions Featured Image Picture of Psoriasis A reddish, scaly rash often located over the surfaces of the elbows, knees, scalp, and around or in the ears, navel, genitals or buttocks... View Image Gallery » See All Quizzes (86) Happiness - Test your emotional IQ Superfoods - Are you eating enough? Fat and Fats - What do you know about fat? Skin Pictures - Can you identify these conditions? Chronic Fatigue Syndrome – What do you know about CFS? Featured Quiz Take the Sex & Love Quiz! The brain. The body. The bedroom. What do you know? View Quiz » Topic Centers Conditions A-Z Allergies Alzheimer's Arthritis Asthma Blood Pressure Cancer Cholesterol Chronic Pain Cold & Flu Depression Diabetes Digestion Eyesight Health & Living Healthy Kids Hearing & Ear Heart HIV/AIDS Infectious Disease Lung Conditions Menopause Men's Health Mental Health Migraine Neurology Oral Health Pregnancy Senior Health Sexual Health Skin Sleep Thyroid Travel Health Women's Health Medications Supplements and Vitamins home > lungs center > lungs a-z list > pneumonia index > pneumonia article Article Related Conditions Images & Quizzes smaller medium larger 1 2 3 4 5 Next Pneumonia Take the Pneumonia Quiz The Common Cold Slideshow Pictures Bronchitis Slideshow Pictures Medical Author: George Schiffman, MD, FCCP George Schiffman, MD, FCCP Dr. Schiffman received his B.S. degree with High Honors in biology from Hobart College in 1976. He then moved to Chicago where he studied biochemistry at the University of Illinois, Chicago Circle. He attended Rush Medical College where he received his M.D. degree in 1982 and was elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha Medical Honor Society. He completed his Internal Medicine internship and residency at the University of California, Irvine. View Full Profile Medical Editor: Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD, is a U.S. board-certified Anatomic Pathologist with subspecialty training in the fields of Experimental and Molecular Pathology. Dr. Stöppler's educational background includes a BA with Highest Distinction from the University of Virginia and an MD from the University of North Carolina. She completed residency training in Anatomic Pathology at Georgetown University followed by subspecialty fellowship training in molecular diagnostics and experimental pathology. View Full Profile Pneumonia facts What is pneumonia? How do people "catch pneumonia"? What are pneumonia symptoms and signs? How is pneumonia diagnosed? What are some of the organisms that cause pneumonia? What is the treatment for pneumonia? Can pneumonia be prevented? What is the prognosis of pneumonia? Patient Discussions: Pheumonia - Treatment Patient Discussions: Pneumonia - Describe Your Experience Patient Discussions: Pneumonia  - Symptoms Find a local Internist in your town Pneumonia vs. Walking Pneumonia Does pneumonia really walk, and is double pneumonia just double talk? Medical Author: Charles P. Davis, MD, PhD Medical Editor: Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD First, the symptoms of walking pneumonia are mild -- usually a cough that can be frequent with little or no phlegm, a low or absent fever (usually under 101 F), and feeling more tired after normal activities. Some patients may get muscle aches or back aches, an occasional rash , or headaches . The symptoms are present for a few days usually before patients seek medical care because "the symptoms are not too bad but they just seem not to go away." In addition, many patients have additional problems such as sinus infections , sore throat , or asthma . Most of these symptoms can occur in both adults and children; however, children may appear more short of breath than adults. Many physicians will do a chest X-ray to help obtain evidence for a presumptive diagnosis, but others will not. Mycoplasma pneumoniae is considered the major cause of walking pneumonia by many clinicians, but it is seldom confirmed by any test. Consequently, many clinicians will give an antibiotic such as doxycycline (Vibramycin, Oracea, Adoxa, Atridox) to treat the presumed Mycoplasma infection. If the "walking pneumonia" is due to Mycoplasma, the antibiotic will help rid the person of the infection and make the person less contagious or noncontagious. However, if the cause is not Mycoplasma, the antibiotic may not help at all. In general, walking pneumonia can be contagious for up to about a month if treatment is not given. The symptoms also can last about a month or so if the patient is not treated. Read more about walking pneumonia » Top Searched Pneumonia Terms: treatment , walking pneumonia , asthma , bronchitis , tuberculosis , flu , vaccine , mycoplasma , diagnosis , chest X-ray , COPD , emphysema , chest pain , smoking Pneumonia facts Pneumonia is a lung infection that can be caused by 
  different types of microorganisms, including bacteria, viruses, and fungi. Symptoms of pneumonia include cough with sputum 
  production, fever , and sharp chest pain on inspiration (breathing in). Pneumonia is suspected when a doctor hears abnormal 
  sounds in the chest, and the diagnosis is confirmed by a chest X-ray . Bacteria causing pneumonia can be identified by sputum 
  culture. A pleural effusion is a fluid collection around the 
  inflamed lung. Bacterial and fungal (but not viral) 
pneumonia can be treated with antibiotics. What is pneumonia? Pneumonia is an infection of one or both lungs which is usually caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi. Prior to the discovery of antibiotics, one-third of all people who developed pneumonia subsequently died from the infection. Currently, over 3 million people develop pneumonia each year in the United States. Over a half a million of these people are admitted to a hospital for treatment. Although most of these people recover, approximately 5% will die from pneumonia. Pneumonia is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. How do people "catch pneumonia"? Some cases of pneumonia are contracted by breathing in small droplets that contain the organisms that can cause pneumonia. These droplets get into the air when a person infected with these germs coughs or sneezes. In other cases, pneumonia is caused when bacteria or viruses that are normally present in the mouth, throat, or nose inadvertently enter the lung. During sleep , it is quite common for people to aspirate secretions from the mouth, throat, or nose. Normally, the body's reflex response (coughing back up the secretions) and 
their immune system will prevent the aspirated organisms from causing pneumonia. However, if a person is in a weakened condition from another illness, a severe pneumonia can develop. People with recent viral infections, lung disease, heart disease , and swallowing problems , as well as alcoholics , drug users , and those who have suffered a stroke or seizure are at higher risk for developing pneumonia than the general population. As we age, our swallowing mechanism can become impaired as does our immune system.  These factors, along with some of the negative side effects of medications, increase the risk for pneumonia in the elderly. Once organisms enter the lungs, they usually settle in the air sacs and passages of the lung where they rapidly grow in number. This area of the lung then becomes filled with fluid and pus (the body's inflammatory cells) as the body attempts to fight off the infection. What are pneumonia symptoms and signs? Most people who develop pneumonia initially have symptoms of a cold ( upper respiratory infection , 
for example, sneezing, sore throat , cough), which are then followed by a high fever (sometimes as high as 104 
F), shaking chills , and a cough with sputum production. The sputum is usually discolored and sometimes bloody. Depending on the location of the infection, certain symptoms are more likely to develop.  When the infection settles in the air passages, cough and sputum tend to predominate the symptoms.   In some, the spongy tissue of the lungs that contain the air sacs is more involved.  In this case, oxygenation 
of the blood can be impaired, along with stiffening of the lung, which results in shortness of breath . At times, the individual's skin color may change and become dusky or purplish (a condition known as " cyanosis ") due to their blood being poorly oxygenated. The only pain fibers in the lung are on the surface of the lung, in the area known as the pleura. Chest pain may develop if the outer aspects of the lung close to the pleura  are involved 
in the infection. This pain is usually sharp and worsens when taking a deep breath and is known as pleuritic pain or pleurisy .
In other cases of pneumonia, depending on the causative organism, there can be a slow onset of symptoms. A worsening cough, headaches, and muscle aches may be the only symptoms. Children and babies who develop pneumonia often do not have any specific signs of a chest infection but develop a fever, appear quite ill, and can become lethargic. Elderly people may also have few symptoms with pneumonia. Next: How is pneumonia diagnosed? 1 2 3 4 5 Next Pneumonia Index Glossary Find a Local Doctor Patient Discussions Viewers share their comments Pheumonia - Treatment Question: What kinds of treatment have been effective for your Pneumonia? View 6 Comments • Submit » Pneumonia - Describe Your Experience Question: Please describe your experience with pneumonia. View 23 Comments • Submission Closed Pneumonia  - Symptoms Question: Please describe your pneumonia symptoms. View 40 Comments • Submission Closed Suggested Reading on Pneumonia by Our Doctors Related Diseases & Conditions 50 articles Staph Infection (Staphylococcus Aureus) Staphylococcus or Staph is a group of bacteria that can cause a multitude of diseases. Staph infections can cause illness directly by infection or indirectly by the toxins they produce. Symptoms and signs of a Staph infection include redness, swelling, pain, and drainage of pus. Minor skin infections are treated with an antibiotic ointment, while more serious infections are treated with intravenous antibiotics. More MRSA MRSA (methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus) bacteria causes skin infections with the following signs and symptoms: cellulitis, abscesses, carbuncles, impetigo, styes, and boils. Normal skin tissue doesn't usually allow MRSA infection to develop. Individuals with depressed immune systems and people with cuts, abrasions, or chronic skin disease are more susceptible to MRSA infection. More Tuberculosis Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria. Symptoms include weakness, fever, weight loss, night sweats and in worse cases, chest pain, shortness of breath, and coughing up blood. A person with an active infection (a positive TB skin test, abnormal chest x-ray and TB bacteria in their sputum) requires treatment with izoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol and pyrazinaide. More Human Immunodeficiency Virus HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is the cause of AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). HIV is a type of virus called a retrovirus, which infects humans when it comes in contact with a break in the skin or tissues such as those that line the vagina, anal area, mouth, or eyes. More Chronic Cough Chronic cough is a cough that does not go away and is generally a symptom of another disorder such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, sinus infection, cigarette smoking, GERD, postnasal drip, bronchitis, pneumonia, medications, and less frequently tumors or other lung disease. Treatment of chronic cough is dependant upon the cause. More Dengue Fever Dengue fever is contracted from the bite of a striped Aedes aegypti mosquito. Symptoms of dengue include headache, fever, exhaustion, severe joint and muscle pain, rash, and swollen glands. Since dengue is caused by a virus, there is no specific medicine to treat it. Treatment instead focuses on relieving the symptoms. More Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) is a disorder that persistently obstructs bronchial airflow. COPD mainly involves three related conditions, chronic bronchitis, chronic asthma, and emphysema. Symptoms of COPD include chronic cough, shortness of breath, frequent respiratory infections, wheezing, morning headaches, and pulmonary hypertension. Treatment of COPD is focused on the related condition(s). More Fever Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 degrees F. (37 degrees C.), in practice a person is usually not considered to have a significant fever until the temperature is above 100.4 degrees F (38 degrees C.). Fever is part of the body's own disease-fighting arsenal: rising body temperatures apparently are capable of killing off many disease- producing organisms. More Chest Pain Chest pain is a common complaint by a patient in the ER. Causes of chest pain include broken or bruised ribs, pleurisy, pneumothorax, shingles, pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, angina, heart attack, costochondritis, pericarditis, aorta or aortic dissection, and reflux esophagitis. Diagnosis and treatment of chest pain depends upon the cause and clinical presentation of the patient's chest pain. More Group B Strep Group B strep are bacteria called Streptococcus agalactiae that may sometimes cause infections both in a pregnant woman and her newborn. Symptoms include fever, seizures, heart rate abnormalities, breathing problems, and fussiness. Intravenous antibiotics are used to treat group B strep infections. More Whooping Cough (Pertussis) Whooping cough (pertussis) is highly contagious respiratory infection that is caused by the bacteria Bordetella pertussis. There are an estimated 300,000 plus deaths annually from whooping cough (pertussis). Whopping cough commonly affects infants and young children, but can be prevented with immunization with the vaccine. First stage whooping cough symptoms are a runny nose, sneezing, low-grade fever, a mild cough with the cough gradually becoming more severe. After one to two weeks, the second stage of whooping cough begins. More Typhoid Fever Typhoid fever is an illness caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria. The illness is contracted by ingesting the bacteria in contaminated water or food. Symptoms include headaches, fever, diarrhea, lethargy, aches and pains, and poor appetite. Treatment focuses on killing the Salmonella bacteria with antibiotics. More Emphysema Emphysema is a progressive disease of the lungs. The primary cause of emphysema is smoking. Alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency is a rare disorder that has a genetic predisposition to emphysema. Aging, IV drug use, immune deficiencies, and connect tissue illnesses are also risk factors for emphysema. Emphysema is a subtype of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, COLD). Symptoms include shortness of breath and wheezing. Management of symptoms may be achieved with medications, quitting smoking, pulmonary rehabilitation, or surgery. More Measles Measles (rubeola) is a highly contagious disease that's caused by a virus. Symptoms include a rash, high fever, cough, runny nose, and red eyes. Treatment focuses on symptom relief. The disease can be prevented with the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine. More Vancomycin-Resistant Enterococci (VRE) Vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) infection is the most common type of infection acquired by patients while hospitalized. Patients at risk for VRE are those who are already ill, and hospitalized, including individuals with diabetes, elderly, ICU patients, kidney failure patients, or patients requiring catheters. Enterococci can survive for months in the digestive tract and female genital tract. Other risk factors for acquiring VRE include those how have been previously treated with vancomycin and combinations of other antibiotics. Treatment of VRE is generally with other antibiotics other than vancomycin. Prevention of VRE can be achieved by proper hand hygiene. More Flu (Influenza) Influenza (flu) is a respiratory illness caused by a virus. Flu symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose, headache, fatigue, and muscle aches. The flu may be prevented with an annual influenza vaccination. More Laryngitis Laryngitis is an inflammation of the voice box (vocal cords). The most common cause of acute laryngitis is infection, which inflames the vocal cords. Symptoms may vary from degree of laryngitis and age of the patient. Common symptoms include croup, hoarse cough, fever, cold, runny nose, dry cough, and loss of voice. Chronic laryngitis generally lasts more than three weeks. Causes other than infection include smoking, excess coughing, GERD, and more. Treatment depends on the cause of laryngitis. More Pleural Effusion Pleural effusion is an excess fluid between the two membranes that envelop the lungs. There are two classifications of causes of pleural effusion; transudate and exudate. The treatment of pleural effusion depends on the cause. More Osteomyelitis Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone. Potential causes include injections around the bone, fractures that puncture the skin, recent surgeries, and bacterial infections that travel from other areas of the body, spreading through the blood to the bone. Symptoms include pain, fever, chills, stiffness, and nausea. Treatment involves antibiotics and pain medications. Surgery is sometimes necessary. More Interstitial Lung Disease Interstitial lung disease, is a term to describe a certain lung condition. Causes of interstitial lung disease include lung infection, exposure to toxins in the environment (asbestos for example), medications (chemotherapy), radiation therapy, and chronic autoimmune disorders. Common symptoms of interstitial lung disease include a dry cough and shortness of breath. Diagnosis and treatment depend upon the cause of the condition. More Chronic Bronchitis Chronic bronchitis is a cough that occurs daily with production of sputum that lasts for at least three months, two years in a row. Causes of chronic bronchitis include cigarette smoking, inhaled irritants, and underlying disease processes (such as asthma, or congestive heart failure). Symptoms include cough, shortness of breath, and wheezing. Treatments include bronchodilators and steroids. Complications of chronic bronchitis include COPD and emphysema. More Respiratory Syncytial Virus Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a highly contagious viral infection. Symptoms include fever and nasal congestion and discharge. Treatment focuses on supportive care. More Plague Plague is an infectious disease caused by the Yersinia pestis bacteria, which is primarily found in rodents the fleas that feed off of them. The bacteria are passed to humans through flea or rodent bites. There are three forms of plague: bubonic, septicemic, and pneumonic. The symptoms and method of transmission vary with each form of plague. Plague can be treated with antibiotics. More Coma Coma is the inability to waken or react to the surrounding environment. The Glasgow Coma Scale is frequently used to measure the depth of coma. Causes of coma include trauma, bleeding, edema, lack of oxygen, poisoning, or hypoglycemia. Prognosis for a patient in a coma depends on the cause of the coma. More Streptococcal Infections Group A streptococcal infections are caused by group A streptococcus, a bacteria that causes a variety of health problems, including strep throat, impetigo, cellulitis, erysipelas, and scarlet fever. There are more than 10 million group A strep infections each year. More Fatigue Fatigue can be described in various ways. Sometimes fatigue is described as feeling a lack of energy and motivation (both mental and physical). The causes of fatigue are generally related to a variety of conditions or diseases for example, anemia, mono, medications, sleep problems, cancer, anxiety, heart disease, drug abuse, and more. Treatment of fatigue is generally directed toward the condition or disease that is causing the fatigue. More Swine Flu Novel H1N1 influenza A virus infection (swine flu) is an infection that generally is transferred from an infected pig to a human, however there have been reported cases where infection has occured with no contact with infected pigs. Symptoms of swine flu are "flu-like" and include fever, cough, and sore throat. Treatment is generally with the antibiotics oseltamivir (Tamiflu) or zanamivir (Relenza). More Shock (Medical) Medical shock is a life-threatening medical condition. There are several types of medical shock, septic shock, anaphylactic shock, cardiogenic shock, hypovolemic shock, and neurogenic shock. Causes of shock include heart attack, heart failure, heavy bleeding (internal and external), infection, anaphylaxis, spinal cord injury, severe burns, chronic vomiting or diarrhea. Low blood pressure is the key sign of sock. Treatment is dependant upon the type of shock. More Bird Flu Bird flu (avian flu, avian influenza) infection in humans may result from contact with infected poultry. There is a vaccine to prevent human infection with the H5N1 strain of the avian flu virus. More See All Related Diseases & Conditions » Medications 36 articles Procedures & Tests 7 articles Pictures, Images & Illustrations 3 articles Doctor's & Expert's Views 20 articles Health News 81 articles Health Features 20 articles Privacy Policy Women's Health Find out what women really need. From WebMD Lung Health Resources New Lung Treatment Featured Centers Ask the Nutritionist: Weight Loss Tips Which Drugstore Tooth Whiteners Work Best? Gout: Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Are You Depressed? Fibromyalgia Center Pneumonia Tularemia » What is tularemia? Tularemia is an infection caused by the Gram-negative 
bacteria Francisella tularensis . The organism is named after Edward Francis who, 
while in Tulare County, Calif., helped discover how the disease was spread and how 
the organism could be cultured. Tularemia is usually a disease of animals. Humans can acquire tularemia when 
they come in contact with infected animals or are bitten by insects that have 
fed on an infected animal. Ticks, biting flies, and mosquitoes have been shown 
to transmit tularemia between animals and humans. Tularemia is one of several 
tick-borne diseases and can be spread by many species of ticks, including Dermacentor variabilis and Amblyomma americana . Among biting flies, the deer fly 
( Chrysops spp.) is the most widely cited vector. Even small doses of these 
bacteria (10-50 bacteria) have the potential to cause severe disease. For this 
reason, F. tularensis has the... Read the Tularemia article » Featured on MedicineNet Visual Guide to OA Heart Disease Pictures What is RLS? TOP 10 Pneumonia Related Articles Bronchoscopy Chest X-ray Chronic Cough Endotracheal Intubation Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV, AIDS) MRSA Infection Pneumococcal Vaccination Staph Infection Total Hip Replacement Tuberculosis Complete List » Lung Topics Lung Cancer What is Khat? Chronic Cough Causes COPD Symptoms Chronic Bronchitis Lungs RSS Healthy Living Tips Latest Lungs News Home Oxygen Could Raise Burn Risk: Experts Radiation After Lung Cancer Surgery Doesn't Help Soft Drinks May Raise Odds for Respiratory Ills First Drug to Target Cause of Cystic Fibrosis Approved Study Maps Path From Smoking to Emphysema in Mice Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters! Health News Feed Pneumonia Related Supplements Zinc Alpha-Linolenic Acid Use Pill Finder Find it Now Pill Identifier on RxList quick, easy, pill identification Find a Local Pharmacy including 24 hour pharmacies Health Categories: Slideshow Pictures Diseases & Conditions Symptoms & Signs Procedures & Tests Medications Image Collection Quizzes MedTerms Dictionary Pet Health Popular Health Centers: Allergies Arthritis Blood Pressure Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu Diabetes Digestion Health & Living Healthy Kids Hearing & Ear Heart Infectious Disease Men's Health Mental Health Pregnancy Sexual Health Skin Women's Health More... MedicineNet.com: Privacy Policy Newsletters Contact Us Site Map WebMD Corporate WebMD Medscape Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList BootsWebMD Follow Us On: Facebook Twitter Google+ RSS This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. ©1996-2012 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use. MedicineNet does not provide medical 