Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hypnotherapy Stop Smoking, Hypnosis Stop Smoking “Gastric Band” Hypnosis for Overeating and Weight Loss Help for Blushing Driving Confidently Relaxation and Confidence Easier Weight Loss Flying Comfortably Help for Insomnia Stop Smoking - Start Living Personalised CD Hypnotherapy CD/MP3 Ordering method - online. * S elect which CD/download you would like from the list below. All recordings except
    Personalised CDs are now available as downloads. * Click on the title of your choice. * On the chosen page use the “Buy Now” button, card details ready. CD Ordering method - by post . Simply send cheque payable to "John Moonie" , specifying which CD(s) you would like
    to:- HypnoPerth, 11 Fraser Terrace, Perth, Perthshire,  UK. PH1 1BX Prices include Postage/Packing anywhere in the world. Payment Methods - Cheque accepted by post - Credit/debit card online - Secure payment - I do not see your card details - PayPal Membership not required (01738) 561889 or 07784 25 77 76 (mob.) Copyright © 2003 - 2009 John Moonie. All Rights Reserved. Site by Web Perth Hypnotherapy Resources Hypnosis Perth Scotland clients from Dundee, Angus, Perthshire (Tayside), Fife
    & Kinross. Falkirk, Stirling, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow. ** For recordings available as an MP3 download - this is available immediately on
    payment of the advised fee via PayPal.  The files are in “.zip” format. Please download
    these to your chosen destination on your hard disk, right click the .zip file and
    “Extract All”, which then makes the .mp3 files available.  Instructions on track
    use are contained within the ReadMe.txt file supplied. John Moonie , HPD, SQHP, GHR(Reg.), NHR Stop Smoking - Start Living CD /   MP3 download Health and Legislation Smoking is quite topical now because of legislation for a ban on lighting up in public
    places, which became law in Scotland in March 2006. The health arguments are well
    known now and 13,000 Scots alone will die prematurely this year from cancer; more
    from heart disease, emphysema and other diseases directly attributable to smoking. Why
    you want to stop is important Most of the clients I see face to face to help quit smoking say what they want is
    better health, more fitness and energy. If they have children they often want to
    be able to see them grow up and be able to join in with their activities. And to
    save money. Other reasons are to feel more socially accepted and to have hair and
    clothes smelling better. Most smokers now seem to be banished to the back garden
    or outside, but where they do smoke indoors are aware of the awful smell pervading
    the house. The Need to Stop Smoking is Yours. Clients who succeed have expressed a need that they really want to stop. I often
    tell people who say "I just like smoking but I'd like to stop" not to waste their
    money on this or any other therapy because they are bound to fail. Hypnotherapy can
    do a lot of things but I don't want to take away your free will! Sometimes this mistaken
    notion that the therapist will 'do it all' comes from an idea that it's the hypnotherapist's
    ideas that will cause the cure to happen. In fact it is the alignment of your conscious
    will to stop, with my help to get your subconscious going in the same direction that
    works. Relaxing background music Use daily for 2-3 weeks Select quiet place with no interruptions to listen - BUT not in the car! Safe, natural therapy Track 1 - Introduction Track 2 - “Stop Smoking - Start Living” therapy track So how effective is it? Hypnotherapy has been shown to be the most effective method for stopping smoking
    compared to willpower, patches, gum, Zyban and acupuncture (source: 'New Scientist'
    issue 1845 (1992)). What I have found is that the the psychological craving for cigarettes
    and other forms of smoking tobacco tends to be more powerful than the nicotine withdrawal
    symptoms. Although you may prefer to use these methods along with the CD to give
    yourself as much chance as possible assuming your GP recommends them. Personal Example Some years ago I gave up smoking myself. I used patches for 3 days but had dreadful
    dreams at night. I used self-hypnosis to quit smoking in 2-3 days quite easily with
    no further dreaming episodes. How this has worked for other people "I found the therapy itself relaxing and motivational... I will thoroughly recommend
    his form of treatment to anyone who wants to give up smoking, it may well have saved
    my life." P.R., Perth "My son and husband have also given up with me, so with the
    money we will save, this time next year we will be able to buy a nice car. Thanks
    again for your help." Mrs J.M., Durham Stop Smoking - Start Living CD UK £11.99 For MP3 See below Stop Smoking - Start Living MP3 Download ** UK £9.99 STOP SMOKING START LIVING HYPNOSIS CD /MP3 What Is Hypnosis What Hypnosis Can Do Typical Hypnotherapy Session Gastric Band CD Blushing CD Driving Confidently CD Relaxation & Confidence CD Weight Control CD Flying Comfortably CD Insomnia CD Smoking CD Personalis