
Owatonna Hospital:  Adult Incontinence Program Skip to main content Careers About Allina Give / Volunteer En Español For Medical Professionals Employee Sign-In Home Health, Conditions & Treatments Medical Services Customer Service Family Health Manager MyChart Find a Provider Find a Location Find an Event/Class Search Allina.com Advanced Search Owatonna Hospital Skip section navigation Hospital home Patient & visitor information Hospital services Providers About Owatonna Hospital Foundation Contact us Allina rehabilitation care Our patients benefit from a network of rehabilitation services throughout western Wisconsin and Minnesota. Allina rehabilitation services Programs and services Support Patient stories Your care team Research Rehabilitation care in Owatonna Cardiac rehabilitation Industrial occupational health Occupational therapy Pediatric rehabilitation - Kenny Kids™ Physical therapy Senior wellness programs Speech therapy Sports medicine Rehabilitation services Adult Incontinence Program A program of: Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute - Owatonna To schedule an appointment or for more information, call 507-977-2150 Adult incontinence, or the involuntary loss of urine, affects more than 13 million Americans. It can range from leaking a few drops when you cough, laugh or sneeze to constant dribbling to having the entire bladder empty without warning. To avoid embarrassment, many people with this condition choose to stay home, missing valuable social contacts that are part of a good quality of life. Fortunately, you can get help at Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute. Primary types of urinary incontinence In most cases, adult incontinence can be cured or improved. The most important step is to talk with your health care provider. Adult incontinence may be caused by urinary tract infection, vaginal infection, constipation, side effects of medications, weakness of the muscles that hold the bladder in place, weakness of bladder, weakness of urinary sphincter, urinary obstruction (often the prostate in men), hormonal imbalances (women), neurologic disorders, or immobility. People can experience one or more of these types of adult incontinence: Stress incontinence is uncontrolled urine loss when the pressure inside the bladder exceeds the pressure inside the urethra, usually resulting from coughing, sneezing or lifting. Urge incontinence is uncontrolled urine loss preceded by a strong urge to urinate. Overflow incontinence often makes people feel as though they never empty their bladder all the way, pass a little urine without feeling the need to go or pass urine after they just went. In men, it may be a sign of prostate problems. Treatment People with urinary incontinence are often reluctant to discuss it and generally accept living with it as a lifelong problem. However, studies have shown 80 percent of patients show improvement in bladder control with physical therapy intervention. Physical therapists at Sister Kenny have specialized training and can help individuals strengthen their pelvic floor muscles and decrease or possibly eliminate incontinence. Kegel or strengthening exercises have been proven to be the most effective exercises to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. Women often find these exercises difficult to do and as a result often perform them incorrectly. Physical therapy can help to re-train the pelvic floor muscles in order to use them properly. Biofeedback and pelvic floor muscle stimulators may also be used. Schedule an appointment A referral or order from your health care provider is needed before therapy services can begin. For an appointment or for more information, call 507-977-2150. Source: Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, Rockville, MD, "Overview: Urinary Incontinence in Adults, Clinical Practice Guideline Update," March 1996 (www.ahrq.gov/clinic/uiovervw.htm) Reviewed by: Linda Hoffman, certified occupational therapist, manager of Owatonna Hospital's Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute First Published: 08/02/2002 Last Reviewed: 09/01/2009 Health e-newsletters | | HON certified Contact us | Privacy | Terms of use | Disclaimer | Accessibility | En Español This site is presented for information only and is not intended to substitute for professional medical advice. Allina®, the Allina logo, and Medformation® are registered trademarks of Allina Health System. Presentation 