Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Your Natural Alternatives Restful Sleep Page RESTFULL SLEEP Nearly half of us experience problems getting to 
  sleep at some time in our lives and nothing ruins a day more than 
  lack of sleep the night before. The amount of sleep individuals need varies, but most 
  people need somewhere between six and eight hours each night. Contrary 
  to popular belief older adults need the same amount, however their 
  sleep pattern may change with age. Waking very early in the morning may simply mean your 
  body is ready to get up. In fact, no matter how early it is, it 
  is always better to get up and do something until you feel sleepy 
  again rather than lie there frustrated. Many thing can cause sleep problems: • Stress or anxiety • Caffeine • Alcohol • Prescription drugs • Changes in our work schedule • Travel • Family illness • Physical changes that come with getting older Over the counter drugs may work, but the next day 
  you may feel as groggy as the lack of sleep would have left you. 
  To make matters worse you could suffer side effects from taking 
  them such as constipation, urinary retention, dry mouth and vasoconstriction 
  of the eyes, which can interfere with contact lens use. So what’s the solution? Start by following the same routine each night. Have a regular bedtime, and keep your bedroom for 
  bedroom activities only, that means no reading, watching television 
  or working in bed. Make your bedroom as comfortable as possible, use 
  room- darkening shades, lower the temperature to 65 degrees and 
  when your are ready to sleep turn lights out. You could also try some simple relaxation techniques, 
  such as taking a warm bath before you go to bed, even better if 
  you add a few drops of lavender oil (hops works well too). If following this routine fails to improve your sleep 
  pattern within about two weeks there are several non-addictive natural 
  remedies that you can try. They can be used on a regular basis without 
  side effects. Natural Sleep Remedies • Chamomile A cup of chamomile tea about half an hour before going 
  to bed is a simple and effective sleep aid. • Lavender Try rubbing 
  lavender oil on tense muscles. Its aroma also has a calming effect 
  when inhaled. You could sip some lavender tea before you go to bed. • Valerian This calming sleep aid has been approved by the the 
  German Federal Ministry of Health. It is widely recommended for 
  treating anxiety related sleep problems. • Kava If your sleeping problems are due to muscle tension, 
  such as back spasms, or anxiety then this herb may be the solution. 
  It relaxes muscles and lessens feelings of anxiety allowing you 
  to fall asleep. It is worth noting that alcohol intensifies the 
  effects of kava and may cause sedation. • Melatonin This is a hormone which occurs naturally in the body. 
  It has been shown to be effective for short term use in resetting 
  the body clocks of travelers and shift workers. It is also useful 
  for the treatment of occasional insomnia. To reduce jet lag, experts suggest taking melatonin 
  en route. After takeoff set your watch to your destination time. 
  Use this time from then on. Two hours before your normal bedtime 
  (destination time) take 1.5 mg of melatonin and if possible sleep 
  on the plane. Take melatonin for a couple of days after you arrive 
  and this can further help adjust your body clock to the new time 
  zone. Disclaimer : T he information presented is 
          for information purposes only. It is based on scientific 
          studies or traditional usage. Consult a health care professional 
          before using supplements or making any changes in prescription 
          medications. The information and statements contained herein 
          are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any 
          dis-ease. || Return Home || Your Natural Alternatives - ©2005-2006 
    Ba