
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 01:43:43 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Nearly one-fifth of lung cancer sufferers keep smoking - Stopsmoking News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Nearly One Fifth Of Lung Cancer Sufferers Keep Smoking 12/04/2011 Nearly one-fifth of lung cancer sufferers keep smoking by Joe Elvin Nearly one in five lung cancer sufferers neglect to give up smoking, according to a new study. Undertaken by scientists from Wake Forest Baptist Medical Centre, the study revealed that around 18 per cent of those diagnosed with the disease are still unable to kick the habit - despite witnessing the side-effects of their smoking first-hand. Lead author of the study, Kathryn E. Weaver, suggested that many fail to see the point of going through the tough journey of quitting when they have already fallen victim to a deadly disease. However, in an interview with Business Week , she firmly disagreed with this attitude. She said: "The biggest obstacle is fatalism, the belief that it is too late to quit smoking so why bother." "There are benefits to be gained buy quitting that have important implications for survival, response to treatments and quality of life." Furthermore, an article on Empowered News suggested that health care workers should take advantage of the period after diagnosis to warn patients about the dangers of continued smoking - and suggesting ways in which to beat the addiction. More and more people looking to improve their health by binning cigarettes are now considering the option of stop smoking hypnotherapy . Addictions to drugs such as nicotine often stem from psychological issues which can be uncovered and targeted by trained hypnotherapists - in order to assist the process of ditching a habit. Hypnosis can also prove an extremely useful method of dealing with the anxiety gained from developing a life-threatening disease. To find out how the Therapy Lounge can help Stop Smoking click here Hypnotherapy helps panic- : Next → ← Previous : Sofa addict turns to hypn By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2