
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Fri, 04 May 2012 17:09:53 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Set-Cookie: CFGLOBALS=urltoken%3DCFID%23%3D121547144%26CFTOKEN%23%3D73614207%23lastvisit%3D%7Bts%20%272012%2D05%2D04%2011%3A09%3A53%27%7D%23timecreated%3D%7Bts%20%272012%2D02%2D10%2018%3A46%3A51%27%7D%23hitcount%3D221%23cftoken%3D73614207%23cfid%3D121547144%23;expires=Sun, 27-Apr-2042 17:09:53 GMT;path=/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Lumbar Pain - A Few Simple Home Remedies for Lumbar Pain | Browse Articles Audios Press Releases Videos How to Tutorials Advance Search | Experts Directory Events Media Room List Your Expertise | Tools Ghostwriter Directory Newsletter Builder Syndicate Content | Upload Advertisement Articles Audios Press Releases Videos | About About Us Terms & Conditions FAQ General Info Media Room Search Tools Create Account | Sign In Submit Your Articles | Press Releases | Info Products | Sign In How IdeaMarketers.Com Works Website Promotion Find out how your ad can be here! Featured Learning to Muscle Test The art of Muscle Testing as a communication tool develops with practice and the mechanics are easy to learn. The energetic responses to what we say, do, h More Energy Healing Basics Clean & Simple This self-paced home study course will give you clear, concise information – without all the hype or mysticism – just the fundamentals of energy healing. D More Let Our Team of Experts Help You Transform Your Ideas Into Income! Get your FREE Subscription to the Ideas to Income Magazine ! Cutting edge articles and exclusive audio interviews with experts like Kathleen Gage, Janis Pettit,
Denise Wakeman, Marnie Pehrson, Ellen Britt, Adam Urbanski, Nancy Marmolejo, Milana Leshinsky, Michele PW & More! So what are you waiting for? Get Your First Issue Today! Name: * Email: Where you heard about us: * Security code: Email marketing by Interspire A Few Simple Home Remedies for Lumbar Pain by Timothy Jordan Send Feedback to Timothy Jordan Request Reprint | Print | About Author | Report Problem | Tweet This Lumbar Pain More Details about Lumbar Pain here. Relief for lumbar pain and other assorted back maladies is easier than many of us may first realize. Although professional treatment is needed when dealing with any advanced injury or degenerative disease, the simple aches and pains that we feel in our day-to-day lives can be managed with a few simple home remedies. While it is still recommended that one consults a back specialist when dealing with any consistent lower back and spine pain, basic relief is still within anyone's grasp. Remedy #1: Heat and Cold Therapy for the Lower Back Although many major back-related injuries occur to the spine, people tend to overlook the muscles in the back as a potential cause of pain and discomfort. Should you suddenly injure yourself or begin to experience any unpleasant pain symptoms in your back, immediately lie down and apply heat or cold to the area. Whether you decide to apply ice or a heating blanket is a matter of determining what is necessary to relieve the lumbar pain . Heat will allow the blood vessels to dilate and help relax muscle pain, while cold will reduce swelling. Remedy #2: Use an Ergonomic Chair with Good Lumbar Support If you're one of the millions of Americans that works in an office environment, you want to make sure you're not gradually damaging your spine during the course of your shift. Preventing lower back and spine pain in these environments is as simple as having a chair that provides solid support to the lumbar region. If your place of work only uses budget furniture which bothers your back during extended hours spent sitting down, purchase padding for the seat as soon as possible. Remedy #3: Regular Exercise Keeps Pain Away Should you find that you don't perform any significant amount of physical activity on a regular basis, try to designate a few hours each week to working out. Even if you decide to take a quick walk around the neighborhood for a half hour, you will find that the occurrence of lumbar pain will be reduced dramatically. It's also recommended that some time is spent stretching at the beginning and end of each day. Even a little bit of exercise will help you keep your muscles and joints limber and pain-free. none awesome comments Contact the Author Timothy Jordan More Details about Lumbar Pain here. Audios & Videos You Might Enjoy on This Subject Stream Audio and Video onto Your Web Site Or Blog Domestic Violence Healthcare Response Healthcare providers are in the best position to assess for domestic violence, yet have obstacles to doing so. See the benefits to moving beyond these obstacles for those you serve. And discover an ac ... Related Articles Avail Higher Success of Pregnancy and Affordability with Infertility Treatment i Eliminate Your Neck and Back Pain Visiting a Decent Chiropractor Portland Will Florida Health Insurance Perk For Lawmakers Be Abolished? Supartz- Things You May Want to Know Enjoy the relaxing and unmatched spa treatments at Lembah Spa Get Answers to Your 4 Most Frequently Asked 86580 Questions Importance of Food Addiction Treatment Centers Are Larger Portions Contributing to Growing Waistlines? Depression in Children- Causes And Cures An Overview Of Psychoanalysis Treatment Theory Snoring Mouthpiece Gives You A Comfortable Sleep Unlimited Water helps offices to take good care of their employees How Psychoanalysis Can Help You Understand Yourself Better Cigotine Electronic Cigarettes -- Safer for the environment? Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Looking for family dentist in Manhattan Beach? CHOOSING THE RIGHT DRUG REHAB PROGRAM How to Successfully Overcome Alcohol Addiction? Enrollees In Health Savings Account And Health Reimbursement Arrangement Plans Increase Doctors in India Providing Excellent Medical Care to International Patients Highly Trained and Qualified Surgeons in India Perform Surgery Procedures at Hug A Better Understanding Of Psychoanalysis Psychoanalysis And Its Application In Modern Society DNA Paternity Test Helps To Uncover The Buried Mysteries Modern Method Of Treatment Through Addiction Interventions Reglazing Glasses Offers Many Benefits For Customers Singapore Counsellor Collecting Medicare Deductibles in Advance Conquer the Pre-Blepharoplasty Visual Field Coding Conundrum Recover Safely at the Alcohol Rehabilitation Centers Keywords: lumbar pain, lower back and spine pain Translate to Spanish Translate to French Translate to German Translate to Italian Translate to Portuguese This article has been viewed 96 time(s). Does this article infringe on your copyright? It is a violation of our terms and conditions for writers to submit material which they did not write and claim it as their own. 
If this article infringes on your copyrights, you MUST either call us at 706-866-2295 or send proof of infringement 
along with the offending article's title, URL, and writer name to IdeaMarketers.com Attn: Marnie Pehrson - Copyright Concern 514 Old Hickory Ln Ringgold GA 30736 USA If you email us or use our problem submission form, we CANNOT guarantee we'll receive your notice! Visit Our Experts Business Business Coaching Business Etiquette Career Change Coaching Business eBusiness Entrepreneur Home Business Masterminding Multiple Income Streams Self Employement Small Business Blog Writing for Entrepreneurs Tech Autoresponders Online Faxing Health/Wellness Energy Healing Colon Cleanse Life Body Language Emergency Preparedness Guided Meditation Law of Attraction Life Purpose Personal Development Books Strengthening Women Relationships Abusive Relationships Dating Marriage Romance Travel Education Entertainment/News Marketing Advertising Attraction Marketing Branding & Naming Internet Marketing Strategies Information Marketing Online Marketing PR & Media Shoestring Marketing Money Prosperity Real Estate Investing Tax Lien Investing Advanced Search | Categories Login | Get Writer Account | Article Categories | Media Room | For Writers Get Content | Info Desk | About | Terms/Conditions | Search Tools | Blog | Privacy Policy Internet Home Business IdeaMarketers i