
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/0.8.54
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 02:05:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.health-eat.com/xmlrpc.php

Does anyone else have to take magnesium and get relief for several health issues? | Food and Health Food and Health Enter your search terms Submit search form Home Sitemap 22 Jul Does anyone else have to take magnesium and get relief for several health issues? Author: admin I’m in the process of still trying to find out what’s going on with my own health with my new doctor. Where I used to live I had a Magnesium deficiency on a couple occasions  and was hypokalemic. I didn’t take any supplementation at that time. In the last six months I’ve been taking supplements on my own for relief of several symptoms that had plagued me for years. My blood tests have been normal for electrolytes since I take supplements on a regular basis. At one point, I was falling down, having panic attacks, weak, and still battle this with tremor, muscle twitching, cramping, etc. I also had IBS for years. I suffered pain all the time, and still do battle with this. However…the magnesium itself seems to be the culprit. Have any of you had great physical and mental relief at all from just a supplement? When I have the ability to afford it I take natural calm or slow mag. Peace Answer: I agree with your choice and great results with the Natural Calm. That’s my choice for magnesium too. My favorite is the Orange flavor. Anyway, I wore high heels the other night and with this heat and humidity, my ankles swelled up like balloons, besides the pain. After 2 days of discomfort I drank about 16 oz with 2 tsp of the Natural Calm in it and I woke up with pretty normal size ankles this morning. It may seem like a tiny issue compared to yours, but magnesium is helpful for so many issues, I thought I'd point this one out for you. I do have a suggestion. I gage my magnesium need when I’ve a strong heartbeat, meaning I have the ability to feel it. When my beat is strong, I take magnesium. I take magnesium also when I have tritches and cramping muscles. The Natural Calm works ideal for me. I've tried many forms. I also like Magnesium Taurate, when I'm super stressed and tight feeling. Sometimes it seems my heartrate is fast, but weak and I’ve other muscle weaknesses. Then I eat something with calcium and potassium in it like a banana or kiwi. Calcium helps muscles contract and magnesium helps muscles rest. A 1:1 ratio of Calcium and magnesium is best for muscles. Just a lil tip if you feel that one day the magnesium adds to your weakness, you can utilize calcium and potassium containing foods and supplements to help. Answer: Taking magnesium is supposed to help for tremors, twitching and cramps if a magnesium deficiency is the cause. Perhaps your problems were not caused by a magnesium deficiency but by some other mineral or vitamin deficiencies.  Perhaps the causes weren’t even related to vitamin or mineral deficiencies. Answer: My mother takes Magnesium for leg cramps.  She has been too so many doctors and finally went to see a specialist and he said it was all related to her back and spine.  The only options are surgery or live with it.  And with my moms job it is very difficult to take that amount of time off. Answer: I take slow mag also.  Prescription magnesuim that is covered my by insurance makes me really sick.  I’ve a deficiency due to having to take a steriod (prednesone), for six months, after having a liver translant. Answer: Yes I’ve take magnesium & iron for years. I take potsum to  if u have a home remedy book. It help me  out. Try to eat heathy. go to dr med on the internet. They will tell u. Answer: I take magnesium,calcium and zinc supplement each nite and it helped with a lot of prblems I was havimng Answer: Each one should be taking Magnesium Citrate one once  every day  ,you should be on Folic Acid half  the Americans are short of this vitamins..   have your Dr. test for iodine deficiency ,  your thyroid   needs iodine IBS is caused from your diet  not the Magnesium unless you’re taking to much,  change your diet and you WILL See a change in your health This entry was posted
										on Tuesday, July 22nd, 2008 at 2:22 pm					and is filed under Alternative Medicine .
					You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.

											You can leave a response , or TrackBack URI from your own site. Leave a reply Name ( * ) Mail ( * ) URI Comment Archives May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2010 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 October 2008 September 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008 Blogroll Best Free Online Games Diseases Fitness Recent Posts Salt Lake City – A Real Land Of True Fun Selecting The Best BJJ Gi For Beginners Boost Your Knowledge of Fire Extinguisher Types to Buy the Best One Accra is full of natural beauties. Accra is hub of fun time activ