<=2 cm. Lumbar Corsets and Back Belts Lumbar corsets and support belts have not been proven beneficial for treating patients
      with acute low back problems. Lumbar corsets, used preventively, may reduce time lost from work due to low back
      problems in individuals required to do frequent lifting at work. Traction Spinal traction is not recommended in the treatment of patients with acute low back
      problems. Biofeedback Biofeedback is not recommended for treatment of patients with acute low back problems. Symptom Control: Injection Therapy Trigger Point and Ligamentous Injections Trigger point injections are invasive and not recommended in the treatment of patients
      with acute low back problems. Ligamentous and sclerosant injections are invasive and not recommended in the treatment
      of patients with acute low back problems. Facet Joint Injections Facet joint injections are invasive and not recommended for use in the treatment of
      patients with acute low back problems. Epidural Injections (Steroids, Lidocaine, Opioids) There is no evidence to support the use of invasive epidural injections of steroids,
      local anesthetics, and/or opioids as a treatment for acute low back pain without
      radiculopathy. Epidural steroid injections are an option for short-term relief of radicular pain after
      failure of conservative treatment and as a means of avoiding surgery. Acupuncture Invasive needle acupuncture and other dry needling techniques are not recommended for
      treating patients with acute low back problems. Activity Recommendations: Patients with acute low back problems may be more comfortable if they temporarily limit
      or avoid specific activities known to increase mechanical stress on the spine, especially
      prolonged unsupported sitting, heavy lifting, and bending or twisting the back while
      lifting. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Activity recommendations for the employed patient with acute low back symptoms need to
      consider the patient's age and general health, and the physical demands of required job
      tasks. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Bed Rest A gradual return to normal activities is more effective than prolonged bed rest for
      treating acute low back problems. (Strength of Evidence = B.) Prolonged bed rest for more than 4 days may lead to debilitation and is not recommended
      for treating acute low back problems. (Strength of Evidence = B.) The majority of low back patients will not require bed rest. Bed rest for 2 to 4 days
      may be an option for patients with severe initial symptoms of primarily leg pain.
      (Strength of Evidence = D.) Exercise Low-stress aerobic exercise can prevent debilitation due to inactivity during the first
      month of symptoms and thereafter may help to return patients to the highest level of
      functioning appropriate to their circumstances. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Aerobic (endurance) exercise programs, which minimally stress the back (walking, biking,
      or swimming), can be started during the first 2 weeks for most patients with acute low
      back problems. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Conditioning exercises for trunk muscles (especially back extensors), gradually
      increased, are helpful for patients with acute low back problems, especially if symptoms
      persist. During the first 2 weeks, these exercises may aggravate symptoms since they
      mechanically stress the back more than endurance exercises. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Back-specific exercise machines provide no apparent benefit over traditional exercise in
      the treatment of patients with acute low back problems. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Evidence does not support stretching of the back muscles in the treatment of patients
      with acute low back problems. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Recommended exercise quotas that are gradually increased result in better outcomes than
      telling patients to stop exercising if pain occurs. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Special Studies and Diagnostic Considerations Electrophysiologic Tests (EMG and SEP) Needle EMG and H-reflex tests of the lower limb may be useful in assessing questionable
      nerve root dysfunction in patients with leg symptoms lasting longer than 4 weeks
      (regardless of whether patients also have back pain). (Strength of Evidence = C.) If the diagnosis of radiculopathy is obvious and specific on clinical examination,
      electrophysiologic testing is not recommended. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Surface EMG and F-wave tests are not recommended for assessing patients with acute low
      back symptoms. (Strength of Evidence = C.) SEPs may be useful in assessing suspected spinal stenosis and spinal cord myelopathy.
      (Strength of Evidence = C.) Bone Scan A bone scan is recommended to evaluate acute low back problems when spinal tumor,
      infection, or occult fracture is suspected from red flags on medical history, physical
      examination, or collaborative lab test or plain x-ray findings. Bone scans are
      contraindicated during pregnancy. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Thermography Thermography is not recommended for assessing patients with acute low back problems.
      (Strength of Evidence = C.) Plain X-Rays Plain x-rays are not recommended for routine evaluation of patients with acute low back
      problems within the first month of symptoms unless a red flag is noted on clinical
      examination (such as specified below). (Strength of Evidence = B.) Plain x-rays of the lumbar spine are recommended for ruling out fractures in patients
      with acute low back problems when any of the following red flags are present: recent
      significant trauma (any age), recent mild trauma (patient over age 50), history of
      prolonged steroid use, osteoporosis, patient over age 70. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Plain x-rays in combination with CBC and ESR may be useful for ruling out tumor or
      infection in patients with acute low back problems when any of the following red flags are
      present: prior cancer or recent infection, fever over 100 degrees F, IV drug abuse,
      prolonged steroid use, low back pain worse with rest, unexplained weight loss. (Strength
      of Evidence = C.) In the presence of red flags, especially for tumor or infection, the use of other
      imaging studies such as bone scan, CT, or MRI may be clinically indicated even if plain
      x-rays are negative. (Strength of Evidence = C.) The routine use of oblique views on plain lumbar x-rays is not recommended for adults in
      light of the increased radiation exposure. (Strength of Evidence = B.) CT, MRI, Myelography, and CT-Myelography In the presence of red flags suggesting cauda equina syndrome or progressive major motor
      weakness, the prompt use of CT, MRI, myelography, or CT-myelography is recommended.
      Because these serious problems may require prompt surgical intervention, planning for use
      of such imaging studies is best done in consultation with a surgeon. (Strength of Evidence
      = C.) CT, MRI, myelography, or CT-myelography and/or consultation with an appropriate
      specialist is recommended when clinical findings strongly suggesting tumor, infection,
      fracture, or other space-occupying lesions of the spine. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Routine spinal imaging tests are not generally recommended in the first month of
      symptoms except in the presence of red flags for serious conditions. After 1 month of
      symptoms, an imaging test is acceptable when surgery is being considered (or to rule out a
      suspected serious condition). (Strength of Evidence = B.) For patients with acute low back problems who have had prior back surgery, MRI with
      contrast appears to be the imaging test of choice to distinguish disc herniation from scar
      tissue associated with prior surgery. (Strength of Evidence = D.) CT-myelography and myelography are invasive and have an increased risk of complications.
      These test are indicated only in special situations for preoperative planning. (Strength
      of Evidence = D.) The following are minimal quality criteria for imaging studies of the lumbar spine
      (Strength of Evidence = B): CT and MRI cuts to be made no wider than 0.5 cm and parallel to the vertebral endplates. MRI scanners to have a magnetic field strength no less than 0.5 T (tesla) and to allow a
          scanning time adequate for optimal image acquisition. Myelography and CT-myelography to use water-based contrast media. The technical protocols for these imaging tests to be described on radiologist reports. Discography Discography is invasive, and its use is not recommended for assessing patients with
      acute low back pain. Interpretation is equivocal, and complications can be avoided with
      other noninvasive techniques. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Due to increased potential risks, CT-discography is not recommended over other imaging
      studies (MRI, CT) for assessing patients with suspected nerve root compression due to
      lumbar disc hernia. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Surgery for Herniated Disc It is recommended that the treating clinician discuss further treatment options, with
      the patient with sciatica after approximately 1 month of conservative therapy. The
      clinician should consider referral to a specialist when all of the following conditions
      are met: (1) sciatica is both severe and disabling, (2) symptoms of sciatica persist
      without improvement or with progression, and (3) there is clinical evidence of nerve root
      compromise. (Strength of Evidence = B.) Standard discectomy and microdiscectomy are of similar efficacy and appropriate for
      selected patients with herniated discs and nerve root dysfunction. (Strength of Evidence =
      B.) Chymopapain is an acceptable treatment for such patients, but less efficacious than
      standard or microdiscectomy. If chymopapain is being considered, testing patients for
      allergic sensitivity to this substance can reduce incidence of anaphylaxis. (Strength of
      Evidence = C.) Percutaneous discectomy is significantly less efficacious than chymopapain in treating
      patients with lumbar disc herniation. This and other new methods of lumbar disc surgery
      are not recommended until they can be proven efficacious in controlled trials. (Strength
      of Evidence = C.) Patients with acute low back pain alone, who have neither suspicious findings for a
      significant nerve root compression nor any positive red flags, do not need surgical
      consultation for possible herniated lumbar disc. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Surgery for Spinal Stenosis Elderly patients with spinal stenosis who can adequately function in the activities of
      daily life can be managed with conservative treatments. Surgery for spinal stenosis should
      not usually be considered in the first 3 months of symptoms. Decisions on treatment should
      take into account the patient's lifestyle, preference, other medical problems, and risks
      of surgery. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Surgical decisions for patients with spinal stenosis should not be based solely on
      imaging tests, but should also consider the degree of persistent neurogenic claudication
      symptoms, associated limitations, and detectable neurologic compromise. (Strength of
      Evidence = D.) Spinal Fusion In the absence of fracture, dislocation, or complications of tumor or infection, the use
      of spinal fusion is not recommended for the treatment of low back problems during the
      first 3 months of symptoms. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Spinal fusion should be considered following decompression at a level of increased
      motion due to degenerative spondylolisthesis. (Strength of Evidence = C.) Social, economic, and psychological factors can significantly alter a patient's response
      to back symptoms and to the treatment of those symptoms. (Strength of Evidence = D.) Assessment of Psychosocial Factors In a patient with acute low back symptoms and no evidence of serious underlying spinal
      pathology, the inability to regain tolerance of required activities may indicate that
      unrealistic expectations or psychosocial factors need to be explored before considering
      referral for a more extensive eval