Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cord Blood Continues Theraeutic Cures Home Company Vaccines Fetal & Stem Cell Research Abortion & Contraception Other Links Donate Search Children of God For Life World Leaders of The Campaign For Ethical Vaccines, Medicines and Consumer Products Questions? We're Here To Help! Join Our Facebook Group Page Just Want To Stay 
				Updated? Join Our Facebook News Page http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/medicalnews.php?newsid=72370#top Latest Scientific Discoveries And Data Announcements Pertaining To Cord 
Blood Stem Cell Banking Technology And Treatment Options Main Category: Stem Cell Research News Article Date: 29 May 2007 Cord Blood Stem Cells Have Distinct Clinical Benefits Today, the three primary sources of stem cells for either scientific study or 
  therapeutic use are: embryonic, adult (which includes bone marrow and 
  peripheral blood) and cord blood. Used only experimentally in scientific study since 1998, embryonic stem cells 
  remain highly controversial. Although research indicates they have significant 
  therapeutic potential, researchers have yet to determine how to control their 
  growth, guide their development into specific cell types or utilize them in 
  human treatments. Conversely, adult stem cells have been used in a variety of treatment areas 
  for more than 40 years and have proven therapeutic value. Although effective, 
  bone marrow stem cells are obtained in an invasive, complicated and painful 
  procedure and do not grow or increase as rapidly as those found in cord blood. 
  While the collection of peripheral blood stem cells is less invasive, these 
  cells have many of the same properties as bone marrow stem cells, and thus 
  many of the same potential limitations. Umbilical cord blood, long considered a "waste product" of the birthing 
  process, is a rich source of readily-available, easily-acquired stem cells. 
  Cord blood stem cells have been used successfully for more than 20 years. 
  Currently, they are used to treat approximately 70 diseases including 
  immunodeficiences; genetic and neurological disorders; some cancers; and blood 
  disorders, such as leukemia, lymphoma, sickle cell anemia, and aplastic 
  anemia. Today, physicians have performed more than 8,000 cord blood stem cell 
  transplants worldwide. These stem cells hold vast therapeutic promise to 
  address major unmet medical needs and are increasingly being used in medical 
  therapies to improve - and save - lives. Cord Blood Stem Cells Result in Excellent Transplant Outcomes The use of cord blood stem cells is quickly becoming a viable option for many 
  diseases previously treated with bone marrow. Cord blood stem cell treatments 
  differ from bone marrow stem cell treatments in three key areas: increased 
  tolerance of HLA-mismatching, decreased risk of graft-versus-host disease and 
  enhanced proliferation ability. Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-matching refers to six of the many proteins that 
  appear on the surface of white blood cells and other tissues in the body. 
  These six HLA genes, or loci, help determine compatibility between donor and 
  recipient. Because cord blood stem cells are immunologically "younger" than 
  bone marrow stem cells, a greater degree of mismatch between donor and 
  recipient cells is tolerable with cord blood stem cells. Conversely, bone 
  marrow stem cell transplants require either autologous (one's own) stem cells 
  or closely matched donor cells that may be difficult to obtain. In addition, stem cells from a related donor have an even greater chance of 
  HLA matching. Three of the six HLA genes required for a 'match' are inherited 
  as a complete set from each parent, and because cord blood stem cells require 
  fewer matches than bone marrow, cord blood stem cells from a related donor, 
  such as a sibling, provide the greatest likelihood for a match. In fact, 
  research suggests that cord blood stem cell transplants from HLA-matched, 
  genetically-related sources are associated with twice the survival as compared 
  with cord blood stem cells from an unrelated donor. Cord blood stem cell transplants also result in decreased rates of 
  graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), one of the most common and life-threatening 
  side effects of a transplant. This is most likely because cord blood stem 
  cells are less mature than bone marrow stem cells, and therefore less likely 
  to attack the patient's body. Finally, cord blood stem cells are more proliferative than bone marrow stem 
  cells. Cultures of cord blood stem cells increase in cell number far more 
  rapidly than do similar cells from bone marrow. Cord Blood Stem Cells: The Future of Stem Cell Therapy The National Marrow Donor Program predicts that cord blood will exceed bone 
  marrow as a preferred stem cell source for transplants within the next year. 
  Given the widespread availability of cord blood, these cells will likely play 
  an important role in the future of stem cell therapy. Emerging Science Shows Potential for Additional Cord Blood Stem Cell 
  Applications Nearly 80 clinical trials studying the uses of cord blood stem cells are 
  currently registered with the FDA, and science suggesting the future potential 
  of cord blood stem cells is growing every day. Many scientists and leading 
  industry physicians believe the greatest potential for cord blood stem cells 
  lies in the possibility for its use in regenerative medicine - the science of 
  using the body's own cells to repair or replace damaged tissues and organs. 
  Regenerative medicine studies are underway in a variety of treatment areas 
  including heart disease, diabetes, stroke, Parkinson's, spinal cord injuries, 
  amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's, muscular dystrophy and liver 
  disease. In addition, umbilical cord blood may one day be used as a conduit 
  for cell-based gene therapy. Cord Blood Registry 1200 Bayhill Drive, Suite 301 San Bruno, California 94066 http://www.cordblood.com/ Send mail to info@cogforlife.org with 
questions or comments about this web site. Please read our Privacy Policy Copyright ©