
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 20:30:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Fedora)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Aloe Vera for Sun Burns, Sun Burns and Aloe Vera Aloe Vera for Sun Burns Aloe Vera can be used to heal any kind of skin infections and allergic reactions caused because of over exposure to harmful radiations. These may be ultraviolet rays and radioactive rays. Aloe Vera is used for Sun Burns. Aloe Vera is also used to moisturize the skin. Aloe Vera is used both topically as well as orally for many diseases. Sun Burns Sun burn is characterized by red skin, pigmentation of skin or in some cases fatigue and dizziness. The skin gets peeled off in this. In this the tissue of the epithelium which is living, burns causing burning sensation to the skin. Sun burns are caused because of over exposure to ultraviolet radiations emitted by sun. Prolonged exposure to these rays may also lead into some serious problems like skin cancer. Sun burns are caused in a lot of people nowadays because of the depletion of ozone layer to a greater extent because of pollution. Sunlight is essential for our body. It is the natural source of Vitamin D necessary for the body, so a little exposure to sunlight is very necessary. Aloe Vera for Sun Burns In order to protect your skin from sunburns you can apply the aloe vera gel available in the market before going out. It helps protect the skin and moisturizes it. This acts as a protective shield to the skin. Aloe vera gel is applied to the affected area. It gives relief from the burning sensation and itching skin. In sun burns, the moisture of the skin is lost and the skin appears to be dry and reddish in color. Aloe vera helps in moisturizing the skin and giving it a cooling effect. Aloe vera also promotes new and healthier tissue on the skin. Aloe vera contains salicylic acid which gives relief from pain. Aloe vera also contains gibberellins and glycans which have anti-inflammatory properties. How to Apply Aloe Vera Gel? You can remove the fresh gel from the aloe vera plant and apply to the affected area. Lot of products containing aloe vera are available to treat sun burns. But, before selecting those products, be sure that those products contain maximum amount of aloe vera gel as their constituents (the ratio should be 70:30). You can also choose pure aloe vera gel instead. This is more beneficial. This gel should be applied to the affected area twice or thrice daily or as frequently as possible. Keep the affected area away from dust and pollution when you have applied the gel. This may increase the severity of infection. In case of sever problems caused by sunburns you should consult the doctor. Some sever problems and prolonged exposures may cause skin cancer. The types of skin cancer caused because of this are Basal cell carcinoma and Squamous cell carcinoma. These may lead into disfigurement of the organs and are very dangerous if ignored. So, take appropriate measures on time. Aloe Vera About Aloe Vera Aloe Vera Tips Aloe Vera Care Aloe Vera Properties Aloe Vera and Beauty Aloe Vera and Hair Aloe Vera and Digestion Aloe Vera Food Aloe Vera Juice Aloe Vera for Health Aloe Vera Benefits to Skin Aloe Vera Allergy Aloe Vera Facts Aloe Vera Products Aloe Vera Aloin Copyright © 2010.