
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 23:36:06 GMT
Server: Apache
Set-Cookie: PHPSESSID=j797mj12bvqhfkmj9e81hg0nv1; path=/
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Joanne Douglass - EzineArticles.com Expert Author Search Home » Expert Authors » Joanne Douglass Suggest A Topic Report This Author Share: Author Alerts: Get notified by email when new articles are written by Joanne Douglass! Email Address: Subscribe Joanne Douglass RSS Feed Joanne Douglass Basic Level

			

			Expert Author Joined EzineArticles on Feb 5, 2011 2 Published Articles: 220 Article Views: 2 Article Niches: About Joanne Douglass Joanne Douglass L.Ac, MSOM Joanne's dedication to being an effective and compassionate provider is evidenced in each acupuncture treatment.  Her approach to diagnosis and treatment is to examine the whole individual on a variety of planes including the physical, emotional, and psychological levels.  Each treatment is administered with the utmost respect for each patient, emphasizing a painless needle technique that ensures an overall comfortable and enjoyable experience.  As a Colorado licensed and board certified acupuncturist with a background in Traditional Chinese Medicine, Joanne has achieved great success in addressing a variety of health conditions including acute and chronic pain, emotional disorders such as depression, anxiety and insomnia, allergies and other respiratory disorders, chronic fatigue, digestive complaints and a host of women's health disorders.  She provides a wonderfully effective program for anti-aging with Mei Zen Cosmetic Facial Acupuncture and has advanced training in treating pregnancy, post-partum, and infertility for women.  Most importantly, Joanne is passionate about working with people and helping them to achieve their greatest health potential. More from Joanne Douglass Search Search Articles By Joanne Douglass Recent Articles By Joanne Douglass Breaking the Habit: Acupuncture Health and Fitness: Quit Smoking • Published: March 17, 2011 Using acupuncture to quit smoking is a very effective choice to help you break the habit for good! Acupuncture helps to reduce cravings, reduce the stress and anxiety throughout the process, supports your lungs and increases oxygen capacity, and can even alter the taste and smell of your cigarettes so that they are less appealing. If you are trying to break your habit, try a 10 treatment acupuncture series to help boost your chances for success. Natural Hormone Balance With Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture Health and Fitness: Womens Issues • Published: February 14, 2011 Chinese medicine excels at balancing the hormones of the women's body and is an effective treatment for regulating menstrual disorders, treating menopausal symptoms, and addressing infertility. In addition, it is also great for addressing mood swings, stress, low libido and poor energy. Get the low-down on the Western and Eastern perspective on how our hormones work, and how they can be treated naturally with Chinese Medicine. Joanne Douglass's Expert Niches Health and Fitness: Womens Issues : 1 Health and Fitness: Quit Smoking : 1 More From Joanne Douglass Author Links Blog: http://www.Pure-Acupuncture-Denver.com/blog Business: http://www.Pure-Acupuncture-Denver.com Social Networking Links LinkedIN : http://www.linkedin.com/pub/joanne-douglass-l-ac-msom/12/814/5a Twitter : http://twitter.com/#!/DTC_Acupuncture EzineArticles.com © 2012 EzineArticles.com All Rights Reserved Worldwide About Us FAQ Contact Us Member Benefits Privacy Policy Shop Site Map Blog Training Video Archive Advertising Affiliates Cartoons Authors Submit Articles Members Login Premium Membership Expert Authors Endorsements Editorial Guidelines Terms of Service Publishers Follow Us Terms Of Service 