Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://boneandspine.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Spinal Traction | Bone and Spine Bone and Spine Orthopedic Care and Consultation Desktop Reader Bloglines Google Live Netvibes Newsgator Yahoo! What's This? Custom Search Home About Help Us Advertising Policy Privacy Policy Contact Disclaimer Blog February 14, 2012 You are here: Home / Physiotherapy / Spinal Traction Spinal Traction July 23, 2009 By Dr Arun Pal Singh Leave a Comment Tweet Note: This article on traction relates to traction used in physiotherapy. For traction for acute problems, please refer to other article. This is a stretching force applied in a longitudinal direction of the spine.  Traction is supposed to separate vertebral bodies, stretches fibrous tissue, improve movements of facet joints,  better drainage of fluid around the nerve roots, and improves circulation. Traction is of two types – sustained and oscillatory. While sustained hold is used for injuries, root compression and muscle spasm, oscillatory  is used for degenerative changes. Position In  cases where the traction is used to treat the root pain or spasm of the muscles, the spine position is adjusted to enable the force to be effective at the target segment. For example flexing the spine incase of lower cervical regions or flattening the spine by flexinge knees and hips and tilting the pelvis backwards in cases of lower lumbar traction. Force Smallest force providing pain relief should be utilized. For nerve root pain, the aim should be 50 % reduction. If more weight is used, the pain can be drastically increased when the traction is removed. For stiffness and degenerative changes, effective force varies from 3 kg to 7 kg. Time For nerve root pain, sustained traction may be left on for 20-30 minutes, released for 5-10 minutes and then re-applied for a further 20-30 minutes. Treatment is generally based on a daily basis until the overall pain reduction is 75 percent. For degenerative changes or regional stiffness, 10-20 minutes, repeated three times a week until improvement stops. Sustained or oscillatory Traction Oscillatory traction is useful for degenerative joint stiffness. Follow Up Improvement is noted by reduction in pain intensity, longer pain free spells or increased mobility. Immediately after sustained traction is removed, spinal mobility is often reduced. This effect wears off in 1-2 hrs. Testing movements therefore should be delayed until the next treatment. If after four treatments with tractions there is no improvement, other modalities should be considered. A combination of passive oscillatory movements (given first) and traction is often more effective for general stiffness. Postural training and exercises are essential components of pain management. Popularity: 1% [ ? ] Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: A Short Guide To Physical Exercises For Spine Exercises are very important way of keeping oneself fit for ... Passive Mobilization Of Joints – Manipulative Therapy In Pain Management Mobility of joints might get restricted because of degenerative changes, ... Ultrasound Therapy In Pain Management Ultrasound therapy involves production of longitudinal mechanical waves above the ... Exercise For Back Pain Relief-Extension Exercises Extension exercises are the exercises which cause the spine to ... Related posts: A Short Guide To Physical Exercises For Spine Exercise For Back Pain Relief-Extension Exercises Filed Under: Physiotherapy Tagged With: nerve root pain , physiotherapy , spinal traction Speak Your Mind Cancel reply Name * Email * Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail Click to cancel reply Subscribe Sign up to receive latest articles and information as well as receive other site updates in your inbox! Similar Articles A Short Guide To Physical Exercises For Spine Exercise For Back Pain Relief-Extension Exercises What people are Reading Now Spinal Traction 11 seconds ago Multi Drug Resistance In Osteoarticular Tuberculosis 18 seconds ago Common Injuries That Occur In Association 38 seconds ago Overview of An Infected Implant  and Its  Management 1 minute, 50 seconds ago Join Discussions sherwin clarke : I live in Guyana, South America. Last wednesday I meet in a bus accident and broke the Tibia in the left leg. I am seeking advice... anne andrew : hi everyone…i am a 70 year old female with madelung’s. i have felt it everyday for 70 years i am sure. at least as far... subhash mahajan : isolated post malleolar # possible with vertical compresion force on planter flexwd foot Teair Mullins : Today when I looked over at my 14 year old daughter, I noticed that her left clavicle was sticking out much farther than her right.... rambabu : good after noon sir. my age is 21 years. i getting back pain since 1 year. in x ray report “no problem”, in MRI report... Like On Neworked Blogs Follow this blog Categories A-D Actetabular Fractures Ankle Injuries Arthritis Back Pain Basics Blog Cervical Spine Clinical Evaluation Definitions Dislocations Drugs E-H Elbow Injuries Femoral Fractures Foot Disorders Foot Injuries Forearm Fractures Fractures-Dislocations Hand Injuries Hip Fractures Hip Replacement Humerus Fractures I-M Implants-Instruments Joint Replacement Joints Knee Injuries Knee Replacement Kyphosis Leg Injuries Metabolic Diseases Musculoskeletal Anatomy Musculoskeletal Infections Musculoskeletal Pathology Musculoskeletal Radiology Musculoskeletal Tumours N-R Nerve Injuries News Non Traumatic Disorders Orthopaedic Images Osteoarthiritis Osteoporosis Pain Management Pediatric Ankle Foot Injuries Pediatric Disorders Pediatric Elbow Injuries Pediatric Femur Fractures Pediatric Forearm Injuries Pediatric Hip Injuries Pediatric Trauma Pelvic Fractures Physiotherapy Plaster Techniques Procedures S-Z Scoliosis Shoulder Girdle Injuries Spine Spine Injuries Sports Injuries Tendon Injuries Thoracic-Lumbar Spine Traction-Aids-Appliances Trauma Upper Limb Wound Healing Wrist Injuries Most Popular Posts Search By Relevance intertrochanteric fracture fracture tibia diagnosis injury synovial Trauma internal fixation swelling wrist bones fracture fixation bone grafting xrays Osteoporosis elbow injury pain fracture healing Cervical Spine knee injury Spine Injuries cervical spine injury Comminuted fracture spinal injury fracture Elbow Injuries spinal trauma bone spinal cord injury treatment infection hip replacement skeletal disorder anteroposterior view knee rheumatoid arthritis dwarfism xray osteoarthritis shoulder dislocation MRI bone tumor Pelvic fracture cervical fractures spine trauma Arthritis spine injury Recent Trackbacks Bone and Spine : A List of Eponyms of Osteochondrosis Bone and Spine : A List of Eponyms of Osteochondrosis Biochemistry Spring 2012 : Proline! - Langara Course Web AP and Lateral Xray of Operated Patella Fracture Fixed With Screws and Tension Band Wiring : Bone and Spine Smack The Money Maker : Apply a Cast to a Broken Arm Implant Infections In MUsculoskeletal System : Bone and Spine Factors Affecting Musculoskeletal Infections : Bone and Spine Anterior Surgeries For Idiopathic Scoliosis : Bone and Spine Posterior Thoracoplasty For Rib Hump In Scoliosis : Bone and Spine Artificial Collagen/Hydrogel Discs Successfully Tested In Mouse : Bone and Spine All Time Popular Xray of Normal Cervical Spine : This xray shows a normal cervical spine. The pres... 102  comment(s) | 96937  view(s) Anatomy of Scapula-Muscles and Ligaments : Various muscles and ligaments attach on scapula t... 91  comment(s) | 75646  view(s) Anatomy of Radius Bone : The radius is the lateral bone of the forearm, and ... 9  comment(s) | 50512  view(s) Anatomy of The Carpal Bones : The carpus is made up of 8 carpal bones, which are ... 0  comment(s) | 47155  view(s) How Does Bone Fracture Healing Occur! : Healing of a fractured bone is quite a complex process ... 562  comment(s) | 40708  vi