
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 00:30:42 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.41 (Unix) mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_auth_passthrough/1.8 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.7a
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Female Bladder Problems Home | Videos | Community | Products Topics: A - B | C - D | E - H | I - O | P - S | T - Z | All Disability Information | Assistive Technology | Health | Travel | Sports | Medical | Fitness & Nutrition | News Female Bladder Problems » Womens Health Issues By David Cowley - 2007-08-15 Having a female bladder problem can be embarrassing. However, it doesn't have to stop you from living a full life. Information is power when it comes to any kind of problem. * * * One of the best things that you can do when you have a female bladder problem is to learn all that you can about it and how to help yourself deal with it or get rid of it. You need to do some research to find out what you need to know. Having a female bladder problem can be embarrassing. However, it doesn't have to stop you from living a full life. Information is power when it comes to any kind of problem. What is a bladder problem? This is when you have sudden urge to go to the bathroom and you are leaking urine and having frequent urination urges. These are all forms of what is known as a urinary incontinence. What this means is that you have a lack of bladder control. There are many things that can cause this. However, the most common cause is a gradual weakening of the pelvic nerves. There are a couple of different kinds of incontinence. Stress incontinence is when there is a weakening of the pelvic floor, which will result in pressure (or stress) on a bladder that was fully functional before. You can be laughing, sneezing, coughing and the next thing you know your underwear is wet. This happens with greater regularity in women after menopause. Urge incontinence or overactive bladder also known as OAB is a sudden, uncontrollable need to go to the bathroom. It doesn't matter how long ago it was that you last went. It could have been just 15 minutes ago. It is caused by the uncontrolled contractions of the bladder muscle also known as the detrusor. This occurs when the communication between the bladder and the brain is not right. This type of bladder problem happens because of inflammation of the bladder lining, infection, and injury, natural atrophy (this happens as you get older) and other reasons. Sometimes you can have a combination of the two above bladder problem types, which is then considered to be a mixed incontinence. Overflow incontinence is when you can't get rid of all of the urine that is in your bladder due to a muscle tone that is weak or there is some type of blockage. The symptoms for this can include dribbling, urgency, hesitancy, straining, a weak urine stream or low urine production even though you feel like your bladder is full. This problem is more common in men but it can happen in women. The first step you will need to take when you have some type of bladder problem is to seek the advice of your physician. If your problem stems from a bladder infection then he will prescribe an antibiotic. Bladder infections will rarely go away on its own and can lead to more serious problems with the urethra, bladder, and the kidneys. Your physician will also need to rule out any more serious problems prior to starting any type of home remedy. The Kegel exercises is a good way to strength the pelvic muscles to help with female bladder problem. Read my article on Adult Bladder Control Problem to get a detail description on the Kegel exercise. Always consult your doctor before using this information. This Article is nutritional in nature and is not to be construed as medical advice. Description and treatment for Female Bladder Problem. "Female Bladder Problems" Female Bladder Problems Tweet Video Clips Video Not Currently Available Top of Page Reference Desk - Contact, About, Terms and Privacy Information Information contained within is intended for your general information only and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Disabled World is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Disable