
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 12:23:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 12:23:17 GMT
Cache-Control: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Compression Hose Information - Shopping Cart Software & Ecommerce Software Solutions by CS-Cart Loading... Home Foot Care Blog Contact Us Secure Shopping Shopping Cart 0 items New Arrivals Shop by Condition Shop by Brand On Sale Compression Hose Information ( Go Back ) Determining the Appropriate Level of Compression* Compression hosiery delivers a squeezing to the leg that is tightest at the feet/ankles and gradually decreases up the leg, this is known as gradient compression. This compression is measured in mmHg (millimeters of mercury) and provides two main benefits. Compression reduces and helps prevent swelling Helps the blood flow more quickly up the leg toward the heart Compression hosiery ranges from light compression (generally 8-15mmHg) to firm compression (generally 30-40mmHg). Indications: Tired, Aching Legs Standing or sitting for long periods of time can cause blood to pool at the ankles and have a hard time returning causing legs to ache and feel tired. 8-15mmHg compression stockings give a gentle squeeze at the ankles and up the leg to get your blood flowing back toward the heart. Helps relieve the tired, aching feeling in your legs. Swelling/Edema Enlarged ankles/calves/feet. Painless swelling may be caused from medications, injury, vein problems, heart problems or other reasons. Prolonged swelling or painful swelling of the foot or leg should not be ignored and your physician should always be consulted. Mild swelling is often managed with 15-20mmHg of compression. Moderate or severe swelling may require higher compression and your physician should be consulted. Varicose Veins Varicose veins can be mild to severe. They are caused from pooling of blood in a damaged vein. Symptoms include bulging veins, aching and discomfort in the leg, heaviness of the leg and/or inflammation of superficial veins. 20-30 mmHg is the most commonly used level of compression for varicose veins. The compression level that is best for you will depend on the severity of your symptoms and you should consult your physician before wearing compression 20 mmHg and greater. Venous Insufficiency Damaged valves in the veins can cause blood to pool in the leg and lead to swelling and pain. This condition is called chronic venous insufficiency which can lead to skin damage and leg ulcers. Symptoms include varicose veins, daily swelling of the leg, skin color changes, especially around and above the ankles, and fragile skin that easily breaks down. Compression of 30-40mmHg (generally knee length) is the most commonly used to manage this condition. Consult your physician before wearing any compression 20 mmHG and greater. *Please Read: The above information does not include all possible indications or conditions. The above information should not be considered specific instructions for individuals. You should discuss the information with your physician, podiatrist or other licensed healthcare professional before purchasing, especially if you are considering compression of 20 mmHg and greater. Foot Care Corns & Calluses Callus Creams Corn & Callus Files Corn & Callus Pads Toes, Bunions, Ball-of-Foot Ball of Foot Cushions Bunion Pads & Splints Hammer Toes Morton's Neuroma Heel Pain & Plantar Fasciitis Heel Cusions & Pads Night Splints & Rollers Dry, Cracked Heels Nail Care Antifungal Nail Polish Nail Clippers & Files Discolored Toenails Ingrown Toenails Skin Care & Foot Odor Antifungal Creams Blister Pads Dry Skin Creams Foot Files Skin Care Arch Supports & Insoles Diabetic Foot Care Pediatric Foot Care Pedicure Supplies Compression Stockings Diabetic Socks Knee Length Support Hose All Knee Length Support Hose Knee Length Support Hose 9-15mmHg Knee Length Support Hose 15-20mmHg Knee Length Support Hose 20-30mmHg Knee Length Support Hose 30-40mmHg Thigh Length Support Hose All Thigh Length Support Hose Thigh Length Support Hose 15-20mmHg Thigh Length Support Hose 20-30mmHg Thigh Length Support Hose 30-40mmHg Support Pantyhose Men's Support Socks Braces, Splints & Wraps Ankle Braces & Wraps Knee Braces Back Braces & Supports Wrist & Elbow Braces Shoes Children's Shoes Diabetic Shoes Orthopedic Shoes - Men's Orthopedic Shoes - Women's Post-Op Shoes Sandals & Clogs Slippers My Account Sign in / Register Orders Policies Payment Options Shipping Return Policy Terms of Use / Disclaimer Privacy More Information Home About Us Foot Care Blog Helpful Foot Care Resources Customer Service Email: customerservice@drtodds.com Toll-Free: 877-637-8633 Contact Us © Copyright Dr. Todd's 2011. All Rights Reserved. * Free shipping a