<http://wp.me/pArdp-ez4>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 07:47:57 +0000
Cache-Control: max-age=300, must-revalidate
X-nananana: Batcache

Weight-Loss Surgery Works Better than Drugs to Control Diabetes | Healthland | TIME.com TIME Magazine Subscribe Photos Videos Lists Apps Life.com Style Follow TIME Facebook Twitter Google + Tumblr NewsFeed U.S. Politics World Business Money Tech Health Science Entertainment Opinion SEARCH TIME.COM Full Archive Covers Videos Home Medicine Infectious Disease Infertility Longevity Obesity Prevention Reproductive Health Sleep Diet & Fitness Diet Exercise Food & Drink Love & Family Infancy Marriage Men & Women Parenting Pregnancy Relationships Romance Sex Sexuality Mental Health Memory Mental Illness Overdose Psychology Policy & Industry Medicare & Medicaid Pharmaceuticals Primary Care Regulation Safety Viewpoint Medical Insider Diabetes Weight-Loss Surgery Works Better than Drugs to Control Diabetes In the first head-to-head studies comparing weight-loss surgery to medication for diabetes, surgery proved more effective in putting the disease in remission. By Alice Park | @aliceparkny | March 26, 2012 | + Tweet Getty Images Two new studies find that weight-loss surgery is significantly more effective than standard treatments for controlling blood sugar in overweight and obese people with Type 2 diabetes. Although research has previously hinted that bariatric surgery, which shrinks the stomach and reroutes food to the intestines, can reverse diabetes — sometimes even before patients leave the hospital — the two new studies published Monday in the New England Journal of Medicine are the first randomized trials to pit surgery against standard treatments head-to-head. Compared with patients getting blood-sugar-controlling medication and counseling in diet and exercise, those who received bariatric surgery were far more likely to be free of diabetes or to have reduced their dependence on diabetes medications for at least two years, compared with those not getting the surgery. MORE: Bypassing Obesity for Alcoholism: Why Some Weight-Loss Surgeries Increase Alcohol Risk By closing off most of the stomach to food, people who receive bariatric surgery eat less and, therefore, lose weight. Patients in the studies lost about five times as much weight on average as those only taking blood-sugar-lowering medications. Weight gain is key a risk factor for Type 2 diabetes, and losing excess weight can help many patients control their disease. But doctors also believe that weight-loss surgery itself, independent of weight loss, can help manage diabetes. Eating too many calories can overwhelm the body’s insulin-producing abilities and lead to higher levels of unprocessed sugar in the blood, so stomach-shrinking surgery may benefit patients by helping them consume less. “Bariatric surgery should not be considered just weight-loss surgery,” Dr. Francesco Rubino of Weill Medical College of Cornell University and author of one of the studies, told ABC News, “but a means to treat diabetes and metabolic disease.” In one study, led by Rubino and his colleagues at the Catholic University in Rome, 75% of the patients who had bariatric surgery no longer had diabetes after two years, compared with zero patients who relied on drug treatments alone. In the second trial, led by researchers at the Cleveland Clinic, 37% to 42% of patients having the surgery and using diabetes medications were able to keep their blood glucose levels below the threshold doctors use to diagnose diabetes, compared with  12% of those who depended only on the medications, after a year. “The result is simply stunning,” Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic and an author of the paper, told USA Today . MORE: Weight-Loss Surgery: Safe, But Does it Work? Still, Nissen and other experts aren’t ready to go so far as to declare bariatric surgery a cure for diabetes. While weight gain is a major contributor to the disease, other risk factors, including a family history and genetic predisposition, also play important roles, which surgery may not fully address. There is also the complex interaction between diabetes medications and weight; in a cruel metabolic twist, some of the drugs designed to control glucose levels can also cause weight gain. That may be why earlier studies of bariatric surgery have suggested that the procedure may not work for everyone. In one trial from 2008, researchers found that diabetes patients undergoing gastric bypass did not lose as much weight after a year as did those who did not have diabetes to begin with; 92% of those without diabetes were able to lose 40% or more of their weight after 12 months, which constituted a successful operation, compared with only 79% of those with diabetes. Still, the current results provide reason to investigate the role that bariatric surgery may play in helping at least some diabetic patients to control, and perhaps even overcome, their disease. Not everyone will be an ideal candidate for surgery nor will many patients have the financial means to take advantage of the procedure, but the findings hint that hormones that normally control appetite, which may be suppressed with weight gain, could be re-engaged when excess weight comes off and help to normalize the body’s insulin and glucose levels. Read other related stories about this: Bariatric Surgery Cuts Type 2 Diabetes ABC News Surgery on Diabetics May Be Better Than Standard Treatment The New York Times Studies: Surgery Can Put Diabetes into Remission Associated Press Related Topics: Bariatric Surgery , blood glucose , gastric bypass surgery , insulin , weight-loss surgery , Diabetes , Medicine , Obesity , Surgery email print share Facebook Twitter Tumblr LinkedIn StumbleUpon Reddit Digg Mixx Del.i.cious Google + @TIMEHealthland Latest on Healthland Flu March 26, 2012 Study: Why Flu Hits Some People Harder than Others During the 2009-10 H1N1 or “swine flu” pandemic, the same virus that caused mild coughing and sneezing in some patients proved fatal for others. It highlighted a medical mystery: why are some people more fit to handle the flu than others? From our Partners Dieting Companies Now Targeting Men CNN Health 10 Careers With High Rates of Depression Health.com Spring Allergy Hotspots HuffPost Healthy Living Reproductive Health March 26, 2012 Plan B: 1 in 5 Pharmacists May Deny Eligible Teens Access to Emergency Contraception Seventeen-year-olds can legally buy Plan B over the counter at the drugstore, but nearly 20% of pharmacists incorrectly deny them access. previous Study: Why Flu Hits Some People Harder than Others blog comments powered by Disqus Recent Topics All Topics Autism Diet Exercise Parenting Pregnancy Sleep Editor’s Picks Memory Do E-Books Make It Harder to Remember What You Just Read? By Maia Szalavitz Parenting Who Is a Child? The Supreme Court Decides By Bonnie Rochman Addiction Sexually Frustrated Flies Are Driven to Drink By Maia Szalavitz More on TIME.com Photos: Kate Middleton's Fashion Evolution The 140 Best Twitter Feeds of 2012 Michelle Obama's Defining Fashion Moments Full List Most Popular Healthland TIME.COM Popcorn Is Packed with Antioxidants The Legacy of the CIA’s Secret LSD Experiments on America Dick Cheney’s New Heart: Should Age Be Considered for Transplants? ‘Back to Sleep’: Why Are 2,500 U.S. Babies Still Dying of SIDS Each Year? Is “Birth Rape” for Real? How Getting Tipsy May Inspire Creativity The Latest Trend in College Admissions: Parents Write Letters of Recommendation Plan B: 1 in 5 Pharmacists May Deny Eligible Teens Access to Emergency Contraception Study: Why Flu Hits Some People Harder than Others Requiring Ultrasounds Before Abortion: One Mother’s Personal Tragedy Intel and Microsoft's Secret Weapon Against Apple Why The Supreme Court Should Uphold the Health Care Law 9-0 Remembering Trayvon: His Parents on His Brief Life and Their New Mission Iraqi Woman's Killing in California Sparks Hate-Crime Debate Police Reveal George Zimmerman's Side of the Trayvon Martin Shooting Top 10 Redheads Bo Xilai Controversy: U.K. Asks China to Investigate Death of Briton Linked to Ousted Politician The Top Ten Biggest Money-Losing Movies of All Time Easter-Egg Hunt Canceled Due to Aggressive 'Helicopter' Parents Can Asian-Style Capitalism Save the West? Videos More Videos Powered by WordPress.com VIP Stay Connected with TIME.com Subscribe to RSS Feeds Sign Up for Newsletters Get the TIME Magazine iPad Edition Read TIME Mobile on your Phone Become a Fan of TIME Get TIME Twitter Updates NewsFeed U.S. Politics World Business Money Health Science Entertainment Photos Videos Specials Magazine © 2012 Time Inc. All rights reserved Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights RSS Newsletter Mobile TIME For Kids Subscribe Contact Us Terms of Use Media Kit Reprints & Permissi