Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 19 May 2011 19:16:11 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "98ea1f375916cc1:b9098"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 12:14:43 GMT
Connection: close

Jon Christian Ryter's Conservative World Home News Behind the Headlines Two-Cents Worth Video of the Week News Blurbs Short 
        Takes Plain 
        Talk The 
        Ryter Report DONATIONS Articles Testimony Bible Questions Internet Articles 
        (2011) Internet Articles (2010) Internet Articles 
        (2009) Internet Articles (2008) Internet Articles (2007) Internet Articles (2006) Internet Articles (2005) Internet Articles (2004) Internet Articles (2003) Internet Articles (2002) Internet Articles (2001) From 
        The Mailbag Books Order 
        Books Cerise Redneck Search About Comments Links odex 
          Alimentarius—Latin for "food rules"—was created 
          out of the "overpopulation fears" of the early 1960s. Shortly 
          after the publication of Paul Ehrlich 's 1962 ecoalarmist best 
          seller, "The Population Bomb," which predicted that 
          by the year 2000 half the people in the world would be starving, the Rockefeller Foundation— which fanned the fears by promoting Ehrlich 's book—funded the startup of Planned Parenthood to curb population growth globally, pushed to legalize abortion, and 
          through the Club of Rome , urged the United Nations to establish 
          the rules necessary to safeguard the world's food supplies. The United Nations Codex 
          Alimentarius Commission [UN CAC] was formed in 1962 as a trade commission 
          whose job it would be to regulate how multinational agricultural and 
          pharmaceutical companies produced food and nutritional supplements—and 
          how those products would be marketed globally. While David Rockefeller , head of the world's wealthiest oil family 
          and the unofficial overseer of the global central banks, was primarily 
          concerned about overpopulation and starvation, the world's pharmaceutical 
          giants saw an opportunity to use the ecoalarmists' food supply fears 
          to seize control of the health supplements industry. Pressured by Big Pharma, 
          the UN added pharmaceuticals and natural supplements to the Codex, ostensibly 
          to establish "universal standards" in the vitamin industry 
          so that consumers would be assured that supplements imported from Asia 
          or Africa would contain exactly the same ingredients as those manufactured 
          in the United States or Europe, thereby protecting the consumers who 
          used them. For close to four decades 
          lobbyists for the world's pharmaceutical giants have been urging global 
          lawmakers to classify vitamins and all other natural supplements as 
          toxins—as the UN CAC does—so that herbs and vitamins could 
          be regulated. Under 
          Codex, UN CAC regulators would establish ultra-low, nonprescription 
          levels for all vitamins and herbal supplements, and mandate that non-regulated 
          supplements be sold in such small dosages that a consumer would have 
          to take several supplements to get what is, today, considered the normal 
          minimum daily requirement of that nutrient. In July, 2005, UN CAC (pressured 
          by Big Pharma to do so) introduced the Codex Alimentarius Vitamin 
          and Mineral Guideline [VMS]. VMS greatly reduced the daily amount 
          of common vitamins that can theoretically be safely consumed (although 
          consumers have been safely consuming much, much higher doses of the 
          same vitamins for the past 50 to 60 years. When Nobel Prize winning 
          researcher Dr. Linus Pauling developed his nonprescription cardiac 
          regime, it included approximately 4,000 mg of L-Lysine, 4,000 mg of 
          vitamin C and 1,000 mg of vitamin E—daily. The Linus Pauling heart therapy has been heralded by doctors around 
          the world one of the safest natural regimes to help prevent heart attacks. Yet in July, 2005, the 
          FDA arbitrarily decided that the maximum safe dosage of vitamin E is 
          400 mg and that doses larger than that could be toxic. And because it 
          is found in so many food products today, the FDA advised that those 
          taking nutrient supplements should limit their daily intake of vitamin 
          C to 500 mg. Consumers who were using the Pauling heart regime 
          that reduced their consumption of these supplements, would no longer 
          be taking a "preventive dose" of the Pauling regime 
          to safeguard against heart attacks. They would simply be "taking 
          vitamins." Under Codex, L-Lysine—which is an amino acid—would 
          be even more stringently regulated since many in the medical community 
          believe the unregulated availability of any amino acid poses a significant 
          health risk to the public. In 1989 there were 1,500 
          cases of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome [EMS] in the United States 
          that were linked to the amino acid supplement L-tryptophan and hydroxy-L-tryptophan. 
          Thirty-seven known deaths were linked to the supplement. The Center 
          for Disease Control [CDC] still insists that the number of those 
          affected was much higher. As a result, the FDA banned the over-the-counter 
          sale of L-tryptophan. An investigation by the 
          FDA produced evidence that the contaminated L-tryptophan all came from 
          one source in Japan— Showa Denko KK even though not 
          everyone who took the Showa Denko supplement got sick. Since 
          1989 several instances of a related disease, eosinophilic fascitis , 
          which the CDC believed was linked to L-tryptophan but just took several 
          years to materialize, surfaced. The CDC and the FDA insist that universal 
          standards are needed and must be mandated to prevent contaminated supplements 
          from getting into the country. At the time, the FDA ran tests on various 
          brands of L-tryptophan consumed by those who developed EMS, and determined 
          that consuming high doses of L-tryptophan—even that which was not 
          contaminated—posed a significant health risk. The FDA claims that 
          those ingesting "label" amounts of the amino acid risk developing myofascial thickening 
          and pancreatic fibrosis. At least, the animal studies sited by the FDA 
          produced those pathological results. Big Pharma's Prize If Big Pharma gets its 
          way and vitamins, herbal supplements and amino acids become regulated 
          under Codex, L-tryptophan will become the "drug of choice" 
          for medical doctors and psychiatrists to fight bipolarism. Today, chemical 
          drugs like Prozac™, Ritalin™, Zoloft™ and Paxil™ 
          are the most commonly-used antidepressants. The problem with that family 
          of neurotransmitters is that they sometimes have a reverse affect on 
          some patients. Instead of enhancing the serotonin levels in the brain 
          and suppressing the manic mood swings that bipolar people experience, 
          those drugs may actually suppress the serotonin levels instead of increasing 
          it, causing violent reactions that include suicide or increased violent 
          behavior towards others. On the other hand, ingested 
          L-tryptophan increases serotonin production—even in individuals 
          who generate little or no serotonin on their own. Logic suggests that 
          doctors would be better served to place manic depressive people—particularly 
          teenagers who generally had adverse reactions to Prozac and Paxil—on 
          L'tryptophan instead of the chemical drugs which are currently prescribed. 
          However, Big Pharma has a problem. A month's supply of Prozac, Ritalin, 
          Zoloft or Paxil retails between $350 and $450. A 30-day supply of L-tryptophan 
          (before it was banned) was ten to fifteen bucks. Compounding the dilemma 
          for Big Pharma—L'tryptophan is a more effective treatment for bipolarism 
          with less negative side affects. If Big Pharma wins, and the health 
          supplement industry falls under FDA regulation, you will immediately 
          see a new generation of antidepressants with Prozac-sounding names at 
          Prozac-selling prices—but whose primary ingredient is L-tryptophan 
          will replace the chemical drugs now being used. Only, because it will 
          be classified by the FDA as a toxin, only a pharmaceutical company will 
          be allowed to wholesale it, and only a pharmacist will be allowed to 
          dispense it. Consumers Battle Codex Fighting the threat of 
          Codex regulation through the WHO and the FDA, a massive grassroots movement 
          was launched by health rights activists. The groundswell it created 
          pressured Congress to enact the Dietary Supplement Health and Education 
          Act of 1994. DSHEA was designed to prevent the pharmaceutical industry 
          from stealing the vitamin industry. Under DSHEA, the law scientifically 
          classifies natural nutritional supplements as food items. As such they 
          cannot be regulated by the FDA which only has jurisdiction over manufactured 
          or "manipulated" products. For example the pit of apricots, 
          peaches and plums contain amygdalin —vitamin B17—a nitritoside . Amygdalin is a proven cancer cell killer. While the FDA cannot 
          regulate vitamin B17, it can and does regulate the serum form of vitamin 
          B17— Laetrile —because in its serum form amygdalin has scientifically been manipulated from a solid to a liquid. Laetrile , 
          which is used to cure cancer in Mexico, is banned in the United States. 
          Why? Because within amygdalin is beta-cyanophoricglycoside . The intact molecule is completely 
          nontoxic. However within the molecule is the element, hydrocyanide (hydrolyzed free hydrogen cyanide). Cyanide is a poison. Ingested at 
          sufficient levels, its lethal. Because chemically, amygdalin contains cyanide, the FDA has been trying to ban Vitamin B17 for decades. 
          However, for reasons scientists have never been able to figure out, 
          when amygdalin is ingested by humans and reaches the intestines, 
          hydrocyanide is detoxified by the enzyme rhodanese and is converted 
          into relatively nontoxic thiocyanate molecules. Amygadalin , 
          whether consumed as the nut within apricot, peach or plum pits, or as 
          apple seeds, grape pits, lima beans, millet or wheat grass, is completely 
          safe and nontoxic—taken in safe doses. Remember, anything—even 
          chocolate cake—can be toxic if consumed in large enough "doses." The FDA, pressured to do 
          so by the AMA, banned Laetrile and is feverishly working to "protect" 
          the American people by classifying Vitamin B17 as a toxin. If this practice 
          is implemented in the United States through the backdoor of UN's Codex 
          Alimentarius Commission , Laetrile—under a brand new patent—will 
          become one of the leading, and most effective, cancer drugs in America. Then Big Pharma would infuse 
          the stock market with new life and those without prescription drug coverage 
          would be forced to wonder how to pay for the new miracle drug to sustain 
          their own lives when then apricot or peach pits in the fruit they buy 
          in their local supermarket has been declared a Class II substance. Does that mean that peaches, 
          apricots and plums will have to be pitted before they reach the produce 
          department of your local supermarket? Or that fresh fruit, because the 
          seeds are construed to be toxic, will become a taste of the past that 
          will shortly become available, pitted, and only in a can? Codex has already classifies 
          apricot, peach and plum pits as toxins. In fact, Codex has unscientifically 
          classified all herbal supplements and vitamins as toxins. The VMG has 
          established ultra-low doses as the "safe limits," arguing 
          that massive doses of any vitamin is unsafe unless prescribed by a licensed 
          medical practitioner. Clearly, VMG violates both the spirit and the 
          letter of DSHEA. However, Big Pharma is pumping millions of dollars 
          into the campaign coffers of scores of irresponsible politicians who 
          will trade their souls for reelection. Add to that advocacy groups like 
          the National Nutritional Foods Association [NNFA] and the Council 
          for Responsible Nutrition [CRN] who have fallen prey to Big Pharma 
          out of fear—or greed—and have become the messengers of disinformation 
          by assuring their members that Codex is good for the American people 
          because it will protect them from unscrupulous profiteers in the natural 
          health good and supplements industry. Just who are the profiteers? 
          When the European Union adopted Codex in July, 2005 and allowed the 
          World Health Organization to curtailed the nonprescription access to 
          natural health supplements in Europe, 75% of the inexpensive over-the-counter 
          natural herb remedies vanished from apothecary shelves by midsummer. 
          The cheap nonprescription vitamins were replaced with very expensive 
          prescription versions of the same vitamins. In Norway, for example, 
          the Food Supplements Directive saw the price of a 30-day supply 
          of the immune-enhancing herb Echinacea jump from $14 to $153. Zinc tablets, 
          classified by VMG as a toxin, leaped from $4 to $52 per bottle. And 
          some "toxins," like Omega-3 and Omega-6 which are essential 
          for good health, are simply no longer available in the European Union. Health 
          rights advocate John Hammell noted that you can buy cigarettes 
          in any apothecary in France, Germany, or Scandinavia, but vitamin C—which 
          is classified as a toxin—is now legally banned. Hammell is convinced Big Pharma wants to keep people borderline healthy—and 
          borderline sick. Clearly, the profiteers 
          are not the naturopaths, herbalists and health supplement industry—it's 
          the pharmaceutical industry which realizes that many of the cures for 
          the sicknesses that are increasingly plaguing America today—like 
          cancer, heart disease, and diabetes—will come from the salves, 
          elixirs and medicine capsules of the 18th and 19th century apothacarists 
          who treated their patients with natural supplements, and not from the 
          chemical laboratories of Big Pharma who spend billions to synthesize 
          the natural remedies of their ancestors because the natural supplements, 
          which were "invented" by Dr. God, can't be patented. The AMA, which now sides 
          with Big Pharma and the CAC, formerly supported a myriad of clinical 
          studies in which they observed that most people do not consume the optimal 
          amount of vitamins. In order to avoid cardiovascular disease, colon 
          and breast cancer, osteopenia, fractures and several chronic diseases 
          it said, "...it appears prudent for all adults to take vitamin 
          supplements." Today, 
          the AMA supports the "scientific" views of the UN CAC chairman Dr. Rolf Grossklaus who—with the help of the pharmaceutical 
          giant, Pfizer —established the "safe upper limits" 
          for the nonprescription intake of vitamins based on the Nordic Ministries 
          Council recommendations that has already swept clean Europe's apothecary 
          shelves of high potency vitamins and herbal remedies. German scientist Gerd 
          Stueckler summed it up when he told the Codex committee that the 
          real health risk to people "...lies mostly in the lack of sufficient 
          nutrients." He concluded that "...the whole Codex Alimentarius 
          endeavor is not about protecting the world's health...It's about protecting 
          the profits of pharmaceutical companies and the profits of the health 
          industry." The FDA's Stealth Attack Thus far Big Pharma has 
          been unable to get around DSHEA. Congresswomen Susan A. Davis [D-CA] who receives no financial support from the pharmaceutical or 
          medical industry, sponsored HR 3256 to amend the Federal Food, Drug 
          and Cosmetic Act of 1994 with the Dietary Supplement Access and 
          Awareness Act. Co-sponsoring 
          the legislation is John Dingell [D-MI] and Henry Waxman [D-CA]—both of whom have friends in, and take contributions from, 
          the healthcare industry. Davis ' legislation, posing as a bill 
          that's concerned only about guaranteeing the safety of vitamins and 
          herbal supplements, is actually designed to provide Codex allies in 
          Congress with the ammunition they need to outlaw all nonprescription 
          health supplements based on the theoretical toxicity that Congress believes 
          occurs from unregulated overuse. (The human body is a miraculous devise 
          that can calculate how much of the vitamins in the body it will require, 
          and dumps the unneeded vitamins—with the exception of Vitamin A—from 
          the body through the bladder.) (Warning: taking 
          extremely heavy doses of any nutrient that exceeds what the digestive 
          system can healthily assimilate is dangerous. If the body can't rid 
          itself of the excess, it will have a toxic affect and, in some rare 
          instances, "overdoses" of vitamins can, and will, kill a person.) In this instance, however, we are speaking of 
          "normal" daily maximums established over the past fifty years 
          or so. Starting in the late 1950s 
          the FDA, whose thinking was dominated by the American Medical Association [AMA], began a covert investigation of healthcare companies which utilized 
          unorthodox approaches and paid for medications not deemed to be acceptable 
          by the AMA. Throughout second half of the 20th century, the AMA dominated 
          the thinking not only of the medical community but the "medical" 
          thinking of the federal bureaucracy. The views of the FDA were the views 
          of the AMA. If the AMA didn't like certain medical procedures, practices 
          or medications they lobbied whomever they needed to curtail or outlaw 
          the procedure, practice or medication. Chelation therapy has been 
          used by both medical and osteopathic physicians since the 1980s to reduce 
          or clear blockages in human arteries to prevent heart attacks. The AMA 
          lobbied against chelation and pressured the health insurance industry 
          not to cover the procedure. At a cost of $85 to $125 per procedure—and 
          the need for three or more treatments each week—few people can 
          afford the $255 to $375 per week for up to 10 weeks and, for that reason, 
          few "at risk" people do chelation. However, when the health 
          insurance industry began to compare the cost of providing chelatin therapy—at 
          about $3,750 for a complete treatment—against the cost of a triple 
          bypass at $85 to $125 thousand, most HMOs and PPOs will now pay for 
          the procedures—but only if the treatments are ordered by the insured's 
          primary care physician. The AMA, using State and federal medical licensing 
          boards, threaten doctors who use procedures, like chelation therapy, 
          that the AMA opposes. When the licensing boards refuse to kowtow to 
          the AMA, the organization lobbies Congress—as they are once again 
          to legalize Codex. In what has been an undeclared 
          war for much of the past century, most of the medical associations in 
          the country spend exorbitant sums to fund slanderous media attacks against 
          what the AMA and the FDA construe to be "quacks"—herbalists 
          and naturopaths pretending, they claim, to be doctors. Depending on 
          the effectiveness of the naturopathic treatment or the cure rate of 
          the herbal remedy, allegations—and sometimes criminal charges—will 
          be brought by the FDA against the practitioner or herbalist. On Oct. 28, 1998 the 
          FDA went after www.apricotseeds.org and the website's owner, Jason 
          Vale for promoting apricot seeds as a cancer cure. Vale was 
          a walking billboard for amygdalin. Twelve years earlier he had a deadly 
          form of Ewing's Sarcoma—a nasty, fast spreading cancer that kills 
          50% of those infected. After chest wall surgery, chemotherapy and radiation 
          treatment, Jason's parents tried apricot seeds. The cancer went into 
          remission. Vale became one of the primary advocates of apricot seed 
          therapy. Only on his website, Vale forgot about the surgery and 
          chemo, declaring that his chest tumors were healed by the apricot seeds. 
          Thousands of people flocked to Vale 's website and bought amygadalin. 
          But thousands more went to other sites. To whittle down his competition, Vale crossed the line from selling a natural supplement (apricot 
          seeds) to selling a manufactured supplement (serum Laetrile) whose distribution 
          is controlled by the FDA. Vale had ventured into the realm of Big Pharma which was already testing 
          synthetic Laetrile under the brand names Sarcarinase, Nitriloside and 
          Anitoxin which were formulations of malonide, glyoxylide and parabenzoquinone 
          that reportedly promised the curative affects of amygadalin—without 
          the cyanide toxic side-effects. In their warning letter 
          to Vale , the FDA said: "This letter is in reference to 
          your promotion and distribution of the unapproved drug Laetrile in the 
          form of your products: 'Apricot seeds,' 'Vitamin B17,' and 'Amygadalin 
          ampules.' Labeling for these products makes therapeutic claims which 
          cause the products to be drugs as defined in Section 201(g) of the Federal 
          Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Labeling is now limited to the immediate 
          product containers but includes all promotional material including video 
          tapes which you distribute with your products." The letter, 
          charging civil violations, started a five year legal odyssey that ended 
          in 2003 when Vale was convicted of criminal violations of Section 201(g). 
          In the civil trial that ended in June, 1999 with a summary judgment 
          against Vale and his company for $631,585—most of which 
          went to AOL for Vale 's spamming AOL email users. Instead 
          of taking his lumps and giving up, Vale changed his company name 
          and continued selling apricot seeds even though the FDA awarded an injunction 
          in federal court that prevented Vale from engaging in the sale 
          or distribution of amygadalin—under any company name. This 
          time, the FDA filed criminal charges. A jury found him guilty on July 
          21, 2003. He was sentenced on June 18, 2004. Vale is currently 
          serving a 63 month sentence. He will serve an additional 3 years of 
          supervised release when he completes his prison time. Because all of 
          his assets were seized to satisfy the $631 thousand judgment, Vale was defended in his criminal trial by a public defender. After his conviction, 
          the court learned that Vale had earned over a half million dollars from 
          the sale of Laetrile that the government could not account for. As a 
          result, the court ordered Vale —who is penniless—to 
          repay the government $31,000 for his defense. What happened to Vale is nothing new. The FDA has been the strong-arm of the AMA since its 
          creation by Franklin D. Roosevelt during the New Deal Era when 
          the federal bureaucracy was being created. One of its first victims 
          was a former coal miner and oilman turned herbalist, Harry Hoxsey . 
          His great-grandfather, John Hoxsey , a horse breeder, watched 
          a cancerous lesion on the leg of his favorite horse heal after it ate 
          on a particular clump of shrubs and flowering plants in the Hoxsey pasture. John Hoxsey formulated a herbal liquid, a salve, and 
          a powdered form of the cancer-curing herbs. Hoxsey 's father—also John —a veterinary surgeon, used his grandfather's remedy on 
          horses. Then quietly, he began treating human patients. When the formula 
          was passed on to Harry he took his show on the road, becoming 
          an itinerant healer for a couple of years before opening the first Hoxsey's 
          Cancer Clinic in Dallas in 1924. That 
          decision began the protracted battle between Harry Hoxsey and 
          the AMA. Hoxsey was arrested more times (for practicing medicine 
          without a license) than any other "medical quack" in the history 
          of the United States. But none of his patients ever testified against 
          him. Why? Because Hoxsey 's treatment worked. In 1946 Mildred 
          Nelson , a registered nurse, was introduced to his name when her 
          mother, Della Mae , went to Hoxsey's Clinic to have her 
          cancer treated. Believing he was a quack, Mildred left her home 
          in Jacksboro, Tennessee and went to Dallas to stop her mother from wasting 
          her money. Instead of dying, her mother's cancer disappeared. Mildred became a believer—and Hoxsey 's nurse. Mildred 's father, 
          who was battling cancer in the eye socket, and had already lost one 
          eye to cancer, was also treated by Hoxsey . He became cancer-free 
          and lived until 1957 when he died from meningitis. The medical orthodoxy labeled Hoxsey as the "worst cancer quack of the century." 
          The AMA and the FDA branded his elixirs and salves as "useless 
          backyard weeds" and the American Cancer Society added Hoxsey to its blacklist. In 1968—eight years after the FDA banned the 
          sale of all Hoxsey medications. FDA investigators would go to the homes 
          of Hoxsey 's patients and seize their medications, telling them 
          that the elixir was worse than the disease, and would kill them before 
          the cancer did. Eminent botanist, James 
          Duke , Ph.D, of the US Department of Agriculture, testified that 
          all of the Hoxsey herbs contain known anti-cancer properties. All of the herbs in the Hoxsey formulas—bloodroot, licorice, 
          red clover, burdock root, stillingia root, berberis root, poke root, 
          cascara, prickly ash bark and buckthorn bark—are cited in the book, Plants Used Against Cancer , a compendium of medicinal plants 
          by National Cancer Institute scientist Jonathan Hartwell . After 
          the FDA banned the Hoxsey formula, Dr. J.W. Fell of the Middlesex 
          Hospital in London developed a paste made from bloodroot and applied 
          to a malignant growth on a patient in the hospital. Within two weeks Dr. Fell 's paste destroyed the cancer completely. Fell 's 
          team expanded the study, healing cancers of the nose, external ear, 
          and other external cancers—using the quack's bloodroot salve. A group of 10 medical doctors 
          visited Hoxsey 's clinic for a 2-day inspection tour in 1954, 
          and examined hundreds of case histories and interviewed scores of current 
          patients. At the conclusion of their investigation, the doctors released 
          a report stating the clinic "...is successfully treating pathologically-proven 
          cases of cancer, both internal and external, without the use of surgery, 
          radium or X-ray...Some of those presented before us have been free of 
          symptoms as long as 24-years, and the physical evidence indicates that 
          they are all enjoying exceptional health at this time. We, as a committee, 
          feel that the Hoxsey treatment is superior to such conventional methods 
          of treatment as X-ray, radium or surgery. We are willing to assist this 
          Clinic in any way possible in bringing this treatment to the American 
          public." That was not to be. The AMA buried the report. Hoxsey remained a quack, and the FDA—pushed to do so by 
          the AMA—succeeded in banning the Hoxsey formulas from reaching 
          the public six years later. America would likely be cancer free today 
          if we did not have the heavily politicized FDA running the gauntlet 
          for the bureaucrats in the AMA who really don't want to see cures 
          for any of the most profitable disease since it will adversely affect 
          the livelihood of their members who earn above average incomes treating 
          those who are suffering and dying from those diseases. In addition to going after 
          those whom the medical community has labeled as quacks, the AMA supports 
          quack-watch groups like the National Council Against Heath Fraud. NCAHF ratchets up public opinion against health care professionals who 
          step across the great orthodoxy divide as the group of doctors did by 
          visiting the Hoxsey Clinic . Doctors who recommending vitamins 
          and natural supplements to their patients instead of the usual regulated 
          drugs, or those who recommend chelation therapy or other unorthodox 
          treatments—regardless how effective the the alternative treatments 
          may be —are also branded as quacks. About one-third of all adults 
          in America currently use, or have used, some form of unconventional 
          medical treatment. Many go to chiropractors. Some go to massage therapists. 
          Many pregnant women go to midwives instead of medical obstetricians. 
          The percentage of Americans who use natural healing methods—and 
          herbal medications—is increasing dramatically much to the dismay 
          of the AMA and its strong-arm enforcer, the FDA—thus, the reason 
          and the appeal by the AMA and the FDA for Codex. And, of course, the 
          very reason that the FDA is now resorting to a new strong-arm tactic. Over the past two years 
          the FDA has embarked on a new ploy to intimidate natural health advocates—attacking 
          and threatening them with legal action or criminal prosecution for minor 
          infractions in labeling or advertising. In many cases, the FDA holds 
          administrative hearings that are equivalent to biased trials can virtually 
          shut down the operations of the offending natural health company. If 
          the consumer fights back, more times than not, the FDA will then pursue 
          criminal action. The letter (below) listed in its entirety, 
          was sent to Jeffrey Grimmer of Grimmer Enterprises in 
          North Mankato, Minnesota by the FDA last June. It begins: Dear Mr. Grimmer: On July 22, 2004, an investigator 
          with the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) collected 
          a sample of American Ginseng capsules from you. You informed the investigator 
          that you had purchased the Ginseng from Shang Gardens, Inc. , 
          and that you then market it on the Internet. The 50 count bottles of 
          American Ginseng capsules that were collected from you were labeled, 
          in part, MFG. SHANG GARDENS and the lot number was identified as 110154. 
          The label identifies this product as a dietary supplement and, as such, 
          it is a food within the meaning of Sections 201 (f) and 201(ff) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the Act) [21 U.S.C. 321(ff)]. You can find the Act on 
          the Internet through links on FDA's web page at www.fda.gov. Our review 
          of your labeling for your American Ginseng product found on your website 
          at http:// www.shanggardens.com revealed that you made claims that cause 
          your product to be a drug under the Act. Labeling is not limited to 
          the immediate product container but, as defined in Section 201(m) of 
          the Act [21 U.S.C. 321(m)], includes all promotional material you distribute 
          in connection with your products. Specifically, we have determined 
          that your American Ginseng product is promoted for conditions that cause 
          the product to be a drug under section 201(g)(1)(B) of the Federal 
          Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) [21 U.S.C. 321(g)(1)(B)]. 
          The therapeutic claims on your website establish this product as a drug 
          because it is intended for use in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or 
          prevention of disease. Examples of some of the claims observed on your 
          website include: Home Search 12/8/05 11:42 AM Warning Letter to Page 
          1 of 3 http://www.casewatch.org/FDA warning/prod/2004/grimmer.shtml 
          1. Under the icon for "what is American ginseng?" Your website states, "(g]inseng 
          has been shown to.. .lower cholesterol, prevent infections,. . . aid 
          in cancer treatment, arthritis and impotency to name a few cases." 
          2. Under the icon for "key benefits of ginseng use" A. Your 
          website states, "cardiovascular health. . . restore blood pressure 
          after shock and heart attacks." "[r]eport that ginseng helps 
          to reduce high blood pressure." "[S]everal studies suggesting 
          that ginseng reduces cholesterol in the circulation." "American 
          ginseng is the most successful at lowering cholesterol levels. . ." 
          B. Your website also states, "Prevent infections..." "Cancer 
          Treatment." "[S]tudies have shown that patients given a regular 
          dose of ginseng were able to better cope with increased anticancer drugs." 
          C. It further states, "Diabetes...it has an effect on diabetes..." 
          "It has also lowered blood sugar levels..." D. In addition, 
          it states, "[D]octors noticed striking improvements when using 
          ginseng in the treatment of patients suffering form impotence." 
          E. Finally,, your website states, "[H]elps to treat cardiovascular 
          diseases..." "[G]enseng reduces their arthritis substantially. 
          One gentlemen was so crippled up with arthritis he was unable to climb 
          to his deer hunting stand. After taking ginseng for some period of time, 
          he described his arthritis as being 80% gone." Furthermore, FDA has no 
          information that your American Ginseng product is generally recognized 
          as safe and effective for the above-referenced conditions and therefore, 
          the product may also be a "new drug" under section 201(p) 
          of the Act [21 U.S.C. 321(p)]. New drugs may not be legally marketed 
          in the U.S. without prior approval from FDA as described in section 
          505(a) of the Act [21 U.S.C. 355(a)]. FDA approves a new drug on the 
          basis of scientific data submitted by a drug sponsor to demonstrate 
          that the drug is safe and effective. FDA is aware that Internet distributors 
          may not know that the products they offer are regulated as drugs or 
          that these drugs are not in compliance with the law. Many of these products 
          may be legally marketed as dietary supplements or as cosmetics if therapeutic 
          claims are removed from the promotional materials and the products otherwise 
          comply with all applicable provisions of the Act and FDA regulations. Under the Act, as amended 
          by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA), dietary 
          supplements may be legally marketed with truthful and non-misleading 
          claims to affect the structure or function of the body (structure/function 
          claims), if certain conditions are met. However, claims that dietary 
          supplements are intended to prevent, diagnose, mitigate, treat, or cure 
          disease (disease claims), excepting health claims authorized for use 
          by FDA, cause the products to be drugs. The intended use of a product 
          may be established through product labels and labeling, catalogs, brochures, 
          audio and videotapes, Internet sites, or other circumstances surrounding 
          the distribution of the product. FDA has published a final rule intended 
          to clarify the distinction between structure/function claims and disease 
          claims. This document is available on the Internet at http://vm.cfsan.fda.gov/~lrd/fr000106.html 
          [codified at 21 C.F.R. 101.93(g)]. In addition, the Ginseng 
          capsules were analyzed by FDA to determine compliance with the Act. 
          Analysis of the capsules found pesticide chemicals for which no tolerance 
          levels have been established. As a result, the product constitutes 
          an article of food that was adulterated when introduced into and while 
          in interstate commerce, and was adulterated while held for sale after 
          shipment in interstate commerce, within the meaning of Section 402(a)(2)(B) 
          of the Act [21 U.S.C. 342(a)(2)(B)]. The article bears and contains 
          pesticide chemical residues, namely Pentachlorobenzene, Quintozene, 
          Pentachloroaniline and Lindane, that are unsafe within the 12/8/05 11:42 
          AM Warning Letter to Page 2 of 3 http://www.casewatch.org/fdawarning/prod/2004/grimmer.shtml 
          meaning of Section 408(a) of the Act [21 U.S.C. 346a(a)], because no 
          tolerance or exemption from the requirements of a tolerance is in effect 
          for the pesticide chemical residue on the article of food. This letter is not intended 
          to be an all-inclusive review of your website and products your firm 
          may market. It is your responsibility to ensure that all products marketed 
          by your firm are in compliance with the Act and its implementing regulations. Failure to do so may result 
          in regulatory action, without further notice, such as seizure and/or 
          injunction. You should notify this office, within 15 working days of 
          the receipt of this letter, of the specific steps you have taken to 
          correct the noted violations. You should direct your 
          reply to Compliance Officer Jane Nelson at the address on the letterhead. 
          She may be reached at (612) 758-7119 if you have any questions. Sincerely, /s/ W. Charles Becoat, Director Minneapolis District Since January, 2004 the FDA has mailed hundreds of these warning letters 
          to Internet entrepreneurs all over the United States. Most of those 
          targeted are not large companies with internal legal departments and 
          lawyers on the payroll, or those with the funds to hire a major law 
          firm to assist them. Most are family businesses. Not all of them are 
          selling vitamins and herbal supplements although it appears the bulk 
          of those singled out for scrutiny and harassment have been targeted 
          for trivial violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act . 
          Some are family farms selling basic food items—like apples...or 
          cherries.—items that no reasonable mind would construe as a regulated 
          "drug." The King Family are fruit farmers in northern Michigan—in the heart of the tart cherry 
          growing district. They farm 300 acres and employ about three dozen people 
          from the community. They are, in every sense of the word, a family-owned 
          and operated business. Like thousands of Internet entrepreneurs 
          around the country last year and this, the King Family received a 
          polite warning from the FDA earlier this year advising them that by 
          discussing potential health 
          benefits of Montmorency tart cherries on their website and in their 
          promotional literature, they violated the law, and because they did, 
          the FDA believes it can legally classify the cherries as a drug under Section 201(g)(l)(B) or the act USC 321(g)(I)(B), and place the 
          cherries—and the King Family—under the jurisdiction of the 
          FDA. The King Family farm, like hundreds of family farms in the country, is economically 
          threatened by unfair and many times illegal competition from overseas. 
          and from the agri-giants in the United States pushing down wholesale 
          prices in order to bankrupt their independent competition, is struggling 
          for its existence. To survive, many of these family farms have been 
          forced to adopt direct marketing strategies utilizing the Internet to 
          bypass the wholesalers (who are usually owned by the agri-giants) and 
          sell direct to the public. But to do so, the farmer must be able to 
          sell the benefits of his product over those found in the local supermarket. Fighting back as best they 
          can over the Internet, the King Family sent out a broadcast email 
          in which they said: "... This 
          is a serious and unconstitutional abrogation of our right to freedom 
          of speech. We are being threatened with action if we do not cease publishing 
          scientific research abstracts on the Internet. It is very disturbing 
          that we are being asked to register cherries as a new drug when cherries 
          have been safely consumed for centuries , while at the same time 
          the same agency approved drugs such an Vioxx, Celebrex, and many others 
          for which there are now substantial reports that these drugs have marked 
          deleterious effects on people's health. We 
          did not seek out, nor wish to engage in a legal or mass media battle 
          with any governmental agency, but this is our legitimate, ethical and 
          honest business livelihood that is being threatened. As 
          small, independent family farmers, we do not have the resources nor 
          lime to battle a federal agency that we suspect is, more interested 
          in protecting the private interests of the pharmaceutical industry than 
          it is in protecting public health. We are left to reach only one conclusion 
          about this: in order to protect the profits of the pharmaceutical industry, 
          the FDA is willing to trample free speech rights, public health, and 
          family farmers. We request your assistance and input on this issue before 
          it spins out of control and has a negative and chilling impact on agricultural, 
          public health, and freedom of speech issues. The King Family 1-877-937-5464 
          November, 2005." The FDA is tackling more 
          than just the family farm or the one-man Internet health supplement 
          entrepreneur. It will go after any business owner who sells any products 
          in which health-related claims are made. In 
          1990 the FDA raided and ransacked 57-year old Sissy Harrington-McGill 's 
          pet store—without the benefit of a search warrant as required by 
          the 4th Amendment —because literature McGill gave to her 
          customers claimed that vitamins help keep pets healthy. What is even more shocking 
          is that when McGill 's day in court arrived, she exercised her 
          7th Amendment rights to demand a jury trial. The federal judge denied 
          her request, telling her he would decide her case. McGill was convicted of violating the Health Claims Act —a law 
          that had not even been enacted when the FDA broke into her store, was 
          still not enacted when the judge sentenced her to 179 days in jail and 
          fined her $10,000; nor was it enacted 114 days later when the judge 
          was forced to free her from jail for breaking a law that did not exist. 
          In fact, the Democratically-controlled Congress in 1990 could not muster 
          the votes to enact the bill into law. McGill filed a lawsuit 
          against the FDA. Even though her constitutional rights were violated 
          twice by the FDA and once by a federal judge, it is not likely she will 
          even see a cash award. But the FDA succeeded in doing what it was trying 
          to do—it closed McGill 's business because she mentioned 
          the health benefits of vitamins. In 1992 the unlocked office 
          door of Dr. Jonathan Wright 's natural health clinic in Kent, 
          Washington was kicked in by FDA agents wearing kevlar vests who rushed 
          into the waiting room with drawn guns, shouting at the patients and 
          office personnel to "Freeze!" and "Put Up Your 
          Hands!" What crime did Dr. Wright commit? The FDA had previously banned a contaminated batch of Vitamin 
          B pills found in another State. Wright was not connected to that incident, nor had he ever sold 
          contaminated vitamins. The FDA knew that, but they decided that since Dr. Wright —a M.D.—practiced nutritional medicine and 
          preventative health methodology, his clinic should be raided and checked 
          out. Wright 's patients were treated like criminals. Wright 's 
          employees were held at gunpoint while the FDA agents ransacked his office. 
          Computers, files, records, mailing lists, supplies, were all confiscated. 
          About all that was left were the carpets, pictures on the wall, empty 
          file cabinets and desks. No charges were ever filed against Wright or 
          any of his employees, but none of his files or equipment were ever returned. 
          The FDA accomplished what it set out to do—it closed down Wright 's 
          nutritional medical practice. In May and September, 1993 
          approximately 40 natural healing clinics, health food stores and independent 
          vitamin manufacturers had a "Wright-experience" as commando-garbed 
          FDA agents—sometimes accompanied by DEA and IRS agents—raided 
          their businesses. Seized by the FDA and/or DEA were any controlled substances 
          that could legally be prescribed by the medical doctors who operated 
          the clinics, vitamins, herbs and other nutritional supplements—including 
          shark cartilage which had become the latest health fad. The IRS seized 
          both personal and company financial records and bank accounts—and 
          the personal and corporate automobiles, office or home electronic equipment—and 
          anything else of value. The government very carefully stripped the "suspects" 
          of any means to raise funds that could be used to hire lawyers. But, just as it was with Dr. Wright , no charges were ever filed against any of the victims 
          of the FDA's latest outrages. Among those raided in September was Dr. 
          Kurt Donsbach . the author of several self-help nutrition books. 
          His home was raided and his personal checking account was arbitrarily 
          seized. Tragically, long before the passage of the Patriot Act , 
          the Bill of Rights was been thumbed by the unconstitutional federal 
          enforcement agencies of the bureaucracy as it enforced edicts emanating 
          from the AMA. None of the seized items were returned. The raids demonstrate not 
          only an erosion of the principles of the rule of law, but a federal 
          bureaucracy that is no longer controlled by the principles of democratic 
          governance. Continually, we see policy agencies of government are being 
          controlled and manipulated by the special interest groups that are legally 
          allowed to bribe elected officials by contributing large sums of money 
          to their reelection campaigns, thereby gaining political favors that 
          should never have been granted either by the politician or the bureaucratic 
          minion playing the inside-the-beltway favor game. One of the two most dangerous 
          lobbies affecting the American people today is the AMA. The mainstream, 
          orthodox medical community has a vested interest in codifying Codex 
          Alimentarius as quickly as possible—with or without the needed 
          legislation ever being proffered by Congress. Why? Because it is becoming 
          increasingly clear that as they realize what's going on, the American 
          people have a problem with an international agency of the UN limiting 
          their ability to buy vitamin supplements—and herbal remedies that 
          have proven they work but are banned not because they have adverse side 
          affects but because the pharmaceutical industry will lose money if more 
          effective, safer and cheaper nutrients will cure or alleviate medical 
          problems experienced by those who currently must rely on traditional 
          medical practitioners who, themselves, rely on surgery and chemical 
          drugs—many with adverse side affects as bad, or worse, than the 
          medical problems they purport to alleviate. For 
          example, FDA-approved Lamisil™ tablets are designed to treat mild 
          to severe toe nail fungus infections. Is nail fungus a life-threatening 
          condition? Of course not. You simply have thick, ugly toe nails. However, 
          the side affects to using Lamisil™ can be life threatening. The 
          side affects include possible liver damage. Tell me, which is worse? 
          Liver damage or ugly toenails? So, why aren't the commando-style FDA 
          agents storming the local podiatrist's office? Because Big Pharma created 
          Lamisil™ and the FDA approved it. Need I say more? 