
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 12:16:54 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Red Hat)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

northeast ohio acupuncture news from acupuncture associates,breaking acupuncture news,ohio acupuncture news,cleveland acupuncture news Dr. L.B. Grotte, M.D. traditional Oriental medicines; acupuncture, Chinese medicine, Tibetan medicine, African medicine, moxibustion. Acupuncture Associates Clinic Call for an appointment (440) 461-7488 Home About L.B. Grotte, M.D., and Amy Shurtz, R.N., B.S.N. How to Make An Appointment How to Get to Our Office Office Policies Frequently Asked Questions How Traditional Systems Differ Some of the Disorders We Treat Fertility and Gynecologic Imbalances Migraine, Vascular, Cluster and Tension Headache Work-Related and Recreational Injury Surgical Procedures Reducing Side Effects of Chemotherapy Arthritis, Tendonitis and Fibromyalgia Allergy, Asthma & Sinus Disease Smoking Cessation How To Choose a Practitioner If You Don't Live in the Greater Cleveland Area Courses in Traditional Oriental Medicine Tibetan Medicine Overview The Senior Physician of the Dalai Lama Comes to the United States In Memoriam, Dr. Tenzin Choedrak Other Traditional Medicines Balinese Medicine African Medicine Ifa and Beekeeping Unani Medicine Commentary Mythology of Modern Medicine America the Heartless The Medicinal Value of Raw Honey Pain Neutralization Technique Blood Stasis & Chronic Disease Ear Acupuncture Recommended Websites Magic & Medicine Lessons from Magic School, Part One Lessons from Magic School, Part Two Lessons from Magic School, Part Three Send us a Comment Acupuncture Associates News News News March 2006 SAUERKRAUT INSTEAD OF
PHARMACEUTICALS Last year, Korean scientists
showed that kimchee, the spicy fermented cabbage dish, is effective in
preventing bird flu in chickens. The studies followed the observation that bird
farmers who ate kimchee did not become sick, even when their birds were
infected. In fact, there have been no human cases of bird flu in Japan or Korea , both
countries where kimchee is popular. In further studies, Seoul National University has
shown that fermented cabbage has the same benefits, even without the traditional
spices. Long time patients have heard for some time my recommendation that they
include some naturally fermented foods to their diet. Unfortunately, all
sauerkraut from the industrial food industry is pasteurized or otherwise
sterilized. Except for Reuben sandwiches
and on top of the occasional hot dog, modern Westerners are not in the habit of
eating sauerkraut, and given the taste difference between homemade and the
industrial product, this is no surprise. Nevertheless, there is some historical
precedent for adding this ingredient back to the diet: During World War I, homemade
sauerkraut was such a popular dish in America it was renamed “liberty cabbage” in deference to anti
German propaganda. Aficionados of maritime history will also recall that Captain
James Cook relied on sauerkraut to prevent scurvy in his sailors. Fortunately, it is very easy
to make sauerkraut or kimchee. I prefer to use red cabbage, but have also
successfully used Napa cabbage or Bok choy, adding ginger, cayenne, onion
and turmeric to make a more kimchee-like dish. For those of you who want the
authentic taste, fish sauce is added. For those who cannot imagine eating
sauerkraut on a regular basis, making your own pickles or fermenting other
vegetables is an easy and tasty option. Since bird flu has already developed
resistance to Tamiflu ® , protecting your family with fermented vegetables is
a realistic and much safer option. (L.B. Grotte, 2006) POOR RESULTS WITH ECHINACEA
FOR CHILDREN’S COLDS New research has cast doubt
on the ability of Echinacea to reduce the symptoms of colds in children. 524
children between the ages of 2 and 11 were followed for four months. If they
got a cold during that time, they were given either echinacea or a placebo for
up to 10 days. The parents recorded the child’s symptoms, their severity and
duration as well as the number of days of fever, if any. Analysis of the data
revealed no difference in symptoms, duration of symptoms, overall days of
illness or days of fever between the two groups. The only observed difference
was a negative one, with rashes appearing in 7% of children who took echinacea
compared to 2% of those treated with placebo. ( Journal of the American Medical
Association, 2003;290:2824-2830). HRT & ASTHMA Researchers from Bergen in Norway studied
data from 2589 women aged between 26 and 54, living in 7 areas of northern Europe (in Norway , Sweden , Denmark , Estonia and Iceland ). The
women were sent a questionnaire ten years ago and then contacted again between
1999 and 2002. The results indicated that women taking HRT are 40 to 50% more
likely to suffer from asthma or to exhibit asthma symptoms, and the increased
risk rises to 60% in the case of allergic asthma. The women on HRT were also
30% more often affected by hay fever. When the study was restricted to
non-smoking women, HRT practically doubled the likelihood of having asthma or
hay fever. (Presented at the 13th Annual Congress of the European Respiratory
Society, 2003). HRT & OVARIAN CANCER A new study has indicated
that estrogen plus progestogen replacement therapy may increase a woman’s risk
of developing ovarian cancer and may also increase the number of endometrial
biopsies that women need before cancer can be diagnosed. An analysis of data
from the recently completed women’s health initiative (WHI) trial into HRT
(stopped early in 2002 because of health risks) found that estrogen plus
progestogen reduced rates of endometrial cancer by 19% but increased rates of
ovarian cancer by 58%. (BMJ 2003;327:767). ANTACIDS & FOOD ALLERGIES Research on both humans and
animals suggests that taking antacid medication, which affects gastric acid
secretions, can result in normally digestible proteins acting as food
allergens. Up to 10% of the adult population may take antacids. (World Allergy
Congress, Vancouver, 2003). TOP FRUIT, VEGETABLES &
LONGEVITY Older people with high blood
levels of vitamin C (ascorbate) live longer than people with low levels,
according to a study of 1214 people between the ages of 75 and 84 years.
Researchers found that ascorbate concentrations decreased markedly with age and
that participants with the highest blood levels of ascorbate (greater than 66
micromol/L) had about half the risk of dying during the 4-year follow-up period
as did participants with the lowest blood levels (less than 17 Micromol/L).
Blood levels of the other antioxidants measured did not correlate with
mortality. Only 17% of the participants took vitamin C supplements and this did
not appear to affect the correlation between blood levels of ascorbate and mortality,
which rather related to fruit and vegetable intake. (Am J Clin Nutr 2003 78:
999-1010). ACUPUNCTURE &
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE The Susan Samueli Center for
Integrative Medicine at the University of California has received a $2 million, five-year federal grant to
continue studying how acupuncture can help treat cardiovascular illnesses such
as heart disease, hypertension and arrhythmias. This grant extends a previous
five-year grant from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. The study,
lead by Dr. John Longhurst, a practicing cardiologist, will look at how
acupuncture excites brain cells to release neurotransmitters that either
inhibit or heighten cardiovascular activity. Longhurst says that needling
specific acupuncture points triggers the release of opioid chemicals that
reduce excitatory responses in the cardiovascular system. This decreases the
heart’s activity and its need for oxygen, which in turn lowers blood pressure
and promotes healing for a number of cardiac ailments, such as myocardial
ischemia (insufficient blood flow to the heart) and arrhythmias. “What we’re
trying to show is that acupuncture can be an excellent complement to other medical
treatments, especially for those treating the cardiac system,” Longhurst said. Longhurst
has received an additional $2 million grant from the National Heart, Lung and
Blood Institute to study central nervous system mechanisms triggered by
acupuncture. ( www.today.uci.edu/news/release_detail
asp?key=1091 ). ACUPUNCTURE & PHYSICAL
PERFORMANCE In a single-blind,
placebo-controlled crossover study, 12 male volunteers (aged 21-26) were tested
using cycle spiroergometry (measurement of oxygen uptake during bicycle
exercising). Prior to exercising, volunteers received true acupuncture at
different points, placebo acupuncture or no acupuncture. Needling of points Hegu
L.I.-4 and Zusanli ST-36 was found to result in an increased maximum work load
and significantly increased work load and oxygen uptake at the anaerobic threshold.
(Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Akupunktur, 47. January 2004, pp.6-17). ACUPUNCTURE & ANXIETY In this study, patients who
required ambulance transport secondary to medical conditions, were randomized
to receive auricular acupressure either at the ‘relaxation point’ or at a sham
point. Patients treated with the true point reported significantly less anxiety
than patients in the sham group on arrival at the hospital. Further, their perception
of pain during treatment, as well as treatment outcomes for their illness, were
significantly more positive than in the sham group. Anesthesiology 2003;
98:1328-32). ACUPUNCTURE FOR OSTEOARTHRITIS
OF THE KNEE 30 patients with
osteoarthritis of the knee were randomized to one of three groups: 1.
acupuncture alone at Hegu L.I.-4, Xuehai SP-10, Xiyan (MN-LE-16), Yinlingquan SP-9,
Yanglingquan GB-34, Zusanli ST-36, Taichong LIV–3, Weizhong BL-40 and Chengshan
BL-57 (twice weekly treatment, obtaining of deqi, 10 treatments in total, using
electro-acupuncture at most points); 2. identical acupuncture plus continuation
of their symptomatic Western medication; 3. symptomatic medication alone for five
weeks, followed by a course of acupuncture as above. Outcome measures (visual
analogue pain scale/VAS and Western Ontario McMaster questionnaire/WOMAC) were administered
by a blinded observer. Highly significant improvements in both measures were
observed in the first two groups, and there was no change in the third group
until they received acupuncture, when significant changes were observed. The
benefits were maintained one month after the end of the course of acupuncture. (Acupuncture
in Medicine 2004;22(1):14-22). In another study, 563 patients with arthritis of
the knee (54% of 5- 10 year duration; 23% more than 10 years) were treated with
acupuncture for a maximum of 15 sessions, with treatment cessation if no
improvement was noted after three treatments (these patients were included in
the study results). Of the 85% of patients who completed treatment (standard
points and additional points according to TCM pattern, with deqi, average 8.9
sessions per patient), 75% experienced a greater than 45% relief in pain
scores. There was a significant difference in quantity of analgesics taken at
completion of treatment (most of the 45% pain-relief responders ceased
medication entirely). Cost analysis showed a reduction from a mean of .91 euros
a day before treatment, to .18 euros a day after treatment, representing a
daily saving of 349.50 euros a day for the 478 patients who stayed in the
study.(Acupuncture in Medicine 2004;22(1):23-28). ACUPUNCTURE VERSUS
ACUPUNCTURE + HERBS FOR HAY FEVER Although many Asian
practitioners are happy to specialize as acupuncturists, and therefore do not
prescribe herbs, there has been a tendency in the west to feel that acupuncture
alone is somehow inadequate. In the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis at
least, this does not seem to be the case. In a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled
trial, 65 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis received acupuncture twice a
week for 8 weeks plus either a Chinese herbal drug formula (intervention group,
33 patients) or placebo (control group, 32 patients) at a dosage of four
capsules, three times daily. Acupuncture was given at Yingxiang L.I.-20,
Yintang (M-HN-3), Fengchi GB-20, plus (according to pattern) Taiyuan LU-9,
Feishu BL-13, Pishu BL-20, Zusanli ST-36, Shenshu BL-23, Qihai REN-6, all with
needle manipulation). Herbal treatment consisted of an 18-herb formula that had
demonstrated its effectiveness in a previous trial (Alternative Therapies in
Health and Medicine. 2003; 9(5): 80-87). After 8 weeks, no significant difference
was found between the two groups in the severity of nasal and non-nasal
symptoms and in rhinitis quality of life questionnaire scores.
Moderate-to-marked improvement rates of 72.7% and 81.2% were found in the
intervention and control groups respectively. ( Hong Kong Med J. 2003 Dec;9(6):427-34). TOP Press Releases Culture of Fear Series Talk To Strangers! Doctor Challenges Common Myth Talk To Strangers! Teach Children Confidence, Not Fear Doctors Study Magic to Transform Fear into Confidence Magic for Medical Professionals Press Releases Wizards Teach Medicine to Doctors Doctor Challenges Medical Profession to Study Magic TOP © 2000-2010 Dr. L.B. Grotte M.D., All Rights Reserved. 539