
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 15:38:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Crohn's Disease  | Crohn's Disease Reviews at Al-Hikmah.org Alternative Health Herb Drug Interaction Herbs & Supplements Medical Conditions Sexual Well Being Women's Health Arginine | Bromelain | Carnitine | Chitosan | Creatine | Flaxseed Oil | Glucosamine | Inositol | Kudzu | Niacin | Omega 3 | Policosanol | Spirulina | Yohimbe Crohn's Disease Crohns disease is a disease of the bowel that is closely related to 
ulcerative colitis. The two are grouped in a category called inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD), because they both involve inflammation of the digestive tract. The major symptoms of Crohns disease include fever, non-bloody or (less 
frequently) bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fatigue. The rectum may be 
severely affected, leading to fissures, abscesses, and fistulas (hollow 
passages). Intestinal obstruction can occur, and over time fistulas may develop 
in the small bowel. Other complications include gallstones, increased risk of 
cancer in the small bowel and colon, and pain in or just below the stomach that 
mimics the pain of an ulcer. Arthritis, skin sores, and liver problems may 
develop as well. Crohns disease tends to wax and wane, with periods of remission punctuated by 
severe flare-ups. Medical treatment aims at reducing symptoms and inducing and 
maintaining remission. Sulfasalazine is one of the most commonly used medications for Crohns disease. 
Given either orally or as an enema, it can both decrease symptoms and prevent 
recurrences. Corticosteroids such as prednisone are used similarly, sometimes 
combined with immunosuppressive drugs such as azathioprine. In severe cases, 
partial removal of the bowel may be necessary. Another approach involves putting individuals with Crohns disease on an 
elemental diet. This involves special formulas consisting of required nutrients 
but no whole foods. Sometimes, after a period on such a diet, whole foods can be 
restarted one at a time. Treatment Principal Proposed Treatments for Crohns Disease: Individuals with Crohns disease can easily develop deficiencies in numerous 
nutrients. Malabsorption, decreased appetite, drug side effects, and increased 
nutrient loss through the stool may lead to mild or profound deficiencies of 
protein, vitamins A, B12, C, D, E, and K, folate, calcium, copper, magnesium, 
selenium, and zinc. Supplementation to restore adequate body supplies of these 
nutrients is highly advisable, and may improve specific symptoms as well as 
overall health. We recommend working closely with your physician to identify any 
nutrient deficiencies and to evaluate the success of supplementation to correct 
them. Other Proposed Treatments for Crohns Disease: A 1-year double-blind trial involving 78 participants with Crohns disease in 
remission who were at high risk for relapse found that fish oil supplements 
helped keep the disease from flaring up. However, a double-blind 
placebo-controlled trial that followed 120 individuals for 1 year found that 
fish oil did not reduce the relapse rate as compared to placebo. Negative 
results were also seen in a smaller double-blind trial. Glutamine has been suggested as a treatment for Crohns disease, as have 
probiotics, but as yet the evidence that either works is highly preliminary at 
best. Finally, food allergies might play a role in Crohns disease. Categories » Alternative Health » Herbs & Supplements » Drug Interaction » Medical Conditions » Medical Diagnosis » Disease & Injury » Man Health » Women's Health » Sexuality Featured Articles » Mesothelioma » Accutane » Ovarian Cyst » Dyspepsia » Biotin » Tailbone Fracture » Phlebitis » Kissing Disease » Calf Muscle Strain » Ulcers » Myringotomy » Hernia Repair » Flaxseed » Arginine » Brittle Nails » Fish Oil » Inositol » Antacids » Dialysis » Childbirth Vaginal » Liver Cirrhosis » Relieving Gas Home | Herbs & Supplements | Medical Conditions | Women's Health | Contact Us Copyright © 2004-2011 Al-Hikmah.org, All rights reserved. Disclaimer: Al-Hikmah.org is a website about health articles & topics and the   information provided on this website is intended for informational purposes only   and should not be construed as medical advice. Individuals wishing to  
    embark on   a supplement program, or engage in alternative medicine therapy, especially   those who have been diagnosed with health problems and who use prescribed   medication, should consult with their h