Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

CHR: Focus Areas Acute 
                  Respiratory Infection (ARI) Diarrheal Disease Nutrition Infectious Diseases Neonatal Health Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) Through its collaborating partners, 
                  CHR identifies the challenges for child health in developing 
                  countries and countries in transition, and designs the most 
                  effective approach to overcome them. These challenges range 
                  from infectious diseases to malnutrition to improper disease 
                  management by health workers. Since its induction in 1996, CHR 
                  has conducted extensive applied research in six targeted areas 
                  to promote child health and reduce childhood mortality and morbidity: Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) The 
				  Challenge ARI remains one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality 
                  in children under the age of five in developing countries. Even 
                  with significant progress in addressing the burden of disease 
                  due to ARI, pneumonia claims approximately 2 million lives annually 
                  of children under the age of five. CHR Approach The CHR partners seek to increase recognition, prevention, and 
                  treatment of ARI by: Improving health care provider's recognition and treatment 
                    approaches through refinement of the treatment strategies 
                    for the three categories of pneumonia: non-severe (simple) 
                    pneumonia, severe pneumonia, and very severe pneumonia; Reducing the spread of antibiotic resistant pathogens and 
                    adverse drug reactions by: o Assessing the necessity of antibiotic therapy for non-severe 
                    pneumonia (e.g. NARIMA Study); o Determining the etiology of very severe pneumonia, documenting 
                    antimicrobial resistance patterns, and identifying best treatment 
                    practices, (e.g SPEAR Study); Demonstrating that oral therapy may be safely substituted 
                    for parenteral therapy in the treatment of children with severe 
                    pneumonia (e.g. APPIS Study); Developing improved diagnostics to identify co-morbidity 
                    and recognition of pneumococcal infections (meningitis, pneumonia, 
                    bacteremia, and otitis media), and malaria; Adapting treatment strategies in areas with endemic malaria 
                    and HIV/AIDS; and Evaluating and introducing promising vaccines, e.g. pneumococcal, 
                    HiB, and RSV. Selected CHR Achievements A 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine demonstrated 
                    an estimated efficacy of 77% among all children who received 
                    at least one dose of the vaccine prior to 24 months. Showed that improved nutrition in developing countries 
                    (including breastfeeding and reduction of low-birth weight) 
                    would greatly reduce pneumonia mortality. After the introduction of Haemophilus influenzae type b 
                    (Hib) conjugate vaccine into The Gambia, the annual incidence 
                    of Hib meningitis has fallen from more than 200 per 100,000 
                    before vaccination to 21 per 100,000 in less than 1 year. Showed that ARI could be prevented in the developing world 
                    through improved nutrition and increased breastfeeding. A 45% reduction in pneumonia incidence with zinc supplementation 
                    in India. Determined that cotrimoxazole is effective for non-severe 
                    pneumonia, but amoxycillin is better for severe cases. 95% efficacy of Haemophilus influenzae type-b (Hib) conjugate 
                    vaccine in The Gambia. Improved case management of ARI and reduced antibiotic 
                    use by 26% and case fatality rate by 27% in Pakistan. Showed that maternal immunization against Streptococcus 
                    pneumoniae elevated infant serum antibody levels 2 to 3 fold 
                    higher than control infants. Diarrheal Disease The Challenge An estimated 2.2 million diarrheal deaths occur annually in 
                    developing countries in children under five. Thousands of 
                    deaths could be averted through interventions such as Oral 
                    Rehydration Therapy, appropriate drug therapy, optimal breastfeeding 
                    practices, improved nutrition, increased access to clean water 
                    and sanitation facilities and improved personal and domestic 
                    hygiene. CHR Approach CHR seeks to improve diagnosis and assessment and increase 
                    prevention, and treatment by: Advancing the understanding of causes and risk factors 
                    of diarrheal diseases; Developing new revised guidelines for management of diarrhea; Evaluating new and alternate drug treatments and rehydration 
                    therapies; and Contributing to the prevention of diarrhea through evaluation 
                    of new vaccines (e.g. rotavirus and shigella) and improved 
                    nutrition and micronutrient status. Selected CHR Achievements Developed a standardized approach for ORS rehydration for 
                    treatment of children with severe malnutrition and diarrhea 
                    that resulted in fewer episodes of hypoglycemia, less need 
                    for intravenous fluids, and a 47% reduction in mortality. 
                    These findings were incorporated into new WHO guidelines. Determined that El Nino increased hospital admissions due 
                    to diarrhea over 200% during the last season. Showed that approximately 40% of all hospitalized diarrhea 
                    cases are due to rotavirus in urban and rural Bangladesh. 
                    In addition, reanalysis of the efficacy of the past rotavirus 
                    vaccine trials in Peru and Brazil has demonstrated that a 
                    safe vaccine would have a significant public health impact. Characterized newly emergent pathogen Vibrio cholerae O139 
                    and designed rapid diagnostic tests. Characterized a new toxigenic clone of Vibrio cholerae 
                    O1 El Tor. Designed a surveillance system to detect Vibrio cholerae 
                    O1 by sampling potable water and sewage in Peru. Designed an algorithm, using locally-available foods, that 
                    is up to 89% effective in treating persistent diarrhea (1996), 
                    and is now incorporated into the IMCI guidelines in over 79 
                    countries around the world. Nutrition The 
					Challenge In 1995, WHO identified that 56% of global child deaths were 
                    attributed to malnutrition, and that most of this mortality 
                    was the result of infectious complications of mild to moderate, 
                    rather than severe malnutrition. Recent nutrition research 
                    has demonstrated that: micronutrients sustain and improve 
                    child health; malnutrition is a major risk factor for disease 
                    and death; and low birth weight impacts adult health and the 
                    health of subsequent generations. CHR Approach CHR seeks to improve nutrition in children by: Conducting research on the use of zinc and other micronutrients 
                    to treat and prevent disease; Fostering innovations in successful breastfeeding counseling; Research and consensus building within the scientific and 
                    programmatic community to reduce low birth weight; Increasing the quality of complementary feeding practices 
                    in at-risk populations; and Promoting the use of a child's nutritional status in the 
                    re-estimation of the Global Burden of Disease. Selected CHR Achievements Daily zinc supplementation in small for gestational age 
                    babies documented a 66% reduction in mortality. Demonstrated that oral zinc supplementation in children 
                    under 5 reported a 24% reduced probability of continuing diarrhea 
                    and a 42% reduced probability of treatment failure or death 
                    in children with persistent-diarrhea. The use of zinc to prevent infectious diseases showed that 
                    zinc had a significant preventive effect on incidence and 
                    prevalence of diarrhea and pneumonia. Established the safety of vitamin A when administered with 
                    childhood immunizations. Established that a single, large postpartum dose of vitamin 
                    A raised breastmilk retinol levels in women, and reduced duration 
                    of ARI and febrile illness in their infants. Among young mothers with infants hospitalized for diarrhea, 
                    exclusive breastfeeding levels were increased significantly 
                    to 75% through the use of community lactation counselors. Infectious Diseases The 
					Challenge Infectious diseases account for 63% of deaths in children 
                    ages 0-4 years. Unfortunately, ARI, DD, TB, malaria, and other 
                    diseases have been shown to develop some degree of resistance 
                    to commonly used antimicrobial drugs. As a result, the decreasing 
                    effectiveness of these drugs has contributed to persistent 
                    infections, higher morbidity and mortality, prolonged hospitalization 
                    and increased health expenditures. The emergence of drug resistance 
                    and new infectious agents presents a serious challenge to 
                    global public health. CHR Approach CHR-funded research has assisted USAID in accomplishing its 
                    goals by conducting research in and building capacity to: Combat AMR by addressing its major causes and consequences, 
                    establishing a global strategy and action plan, contributing 
                    to the understanding of mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance, 
                    developing methods to detect resistance, responding to data 
                    on antimicrobial resistance and drug-use, and preventing and 
                    slowing the spread of antimicrobial resistance; Support the work of the USAID Zambia mission strategy in 
                    combating malaria; Respond to a congressional earmark to provide regional 
                    and national training to improve tuberculosis control programs 
                    committed to the WHO DOTS strategy, with special attention 
                    to issues concerning high-risk and marginalized populations; 
                    foster development of local and national TB control program 
                    capacities to utilize operations research as a program tool; 
                    and implement and evaluate new and innovative approaches to 
                    community-based interventions for TB control; and Conduct research to develop delivery strategies and identify 
                    impediments to the successful completion of the global strategy 
                    to eradicate polio. Selected CHR Achievements Demonstrated that steroid therapy did not improve outcome 
                    in bacterial meningitis allowing WHO to make a clear recommendation 
                    against the use of steroids in this disease. Developed emergency response system for a dengue outbreak 
                    at the request of the Bangladesh government and mission. This 
                    approach has been adopted by WHO for use globally. Developed an innovative and field-appropriate education 
                    process involving immediate feedback and small group discussions, 
                    followed by self-assessment meetings. These efforts have reduced 
                    the number of children inappropriately treated with antibiotics 
                    for simple ARI from 70% to 23%. An ongoing effort to strengthen tuberculosis control and 
                    establish effective DOTS campaigns in rural areas of Rio de 
                    Janeiro, Brazil. This work has demonstrated that 82% completion 
                    of all doses is achievable and that patient cure rates in 
                    a country with a 40% default rate of DOTS interventions can 
                    be improved. The program has already moved treatment success 
                    rates from 60% to 84% in its first year of existence. Trained key officials in Russia's Kemerovo region in the 
                    control of MDR-TB and assisted in the development of an action 
                    plan. Field testing of an innovative, rapid, and inexpensive 
                    technique for diagnosing TB in an urban slum of Lima, Peru 
                    that has some of the world's highest prevalence of TB and 
                    morbidity and mortality for HIV/MDR-TB. In Cambodia, the CHR project has developed and implemented 
                    a cross-training effort for the country's HIV and TB care 
                    programs. This has been accomplished by adding a TB component 
                    to an existing HIV-care program that provides home care to 
                    about 700 symptomatic patients in the greater Phnom Penh area. Implementation of a DOTS program in Indonesian hospitals 
                    and then linking them to the national TB program. A large multi-center study in India to document the etiology 
                    and antimicrobial resistance of S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae 
                    invasive infections. This study has found up to 85% resistance 
                    to routinely used antimicrobial drugs. Higher levels of drug 
                    resistance were found in urban areas (78% cotrimoxazole resistance) 
                    vs. 39% in rural areas, and identified pneumococcal serotypes 
                    that should optimally be included in vaccine formulation for 
                    India. Developed Invasive Bacterial Infection Surveillance (IBIS) 
                    to monitor Streptococcus pneumoniae and Hemophilus influenzae 
                    - b prevalence and antibiotic resistance in India. IBIS found: 
                    Significant levels of resistance (up to 85%) to antimicrobial 
                    drugs; higher levels of drug resistance in urban areas (78% 
                    resistance to cotrimoxazole in New Delhi) than in rural areas 
                    (39%), and determined pneumococcal serotypes that must be 
                    included in vaccine formulation for India. Demonstrated that greater improvements in prescribing practices 
                    resulted when problem oriented, small-group educational approaches 
                    were used in addition to ongoing discussions among clinical 
                    peers that were reinforced by routine supervision and monitoring. Determined that physician prescribing practices were influenced 
                    by factors other than knowledge of the correct therapeutic 
                    choice. Factors, such as duration of practice, and caregivers' 
                    expectations have an important influence on physician prescribing 
                    practices of antimicrobials. Showed that compliance in administering cotrimoxazole preparations 
                    was strongly correlated with caregivers' difficulty in administering 
                    the medication. Neonatal Health The 
					Challenge The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 5 million 
                    neonates die each year. A very large proportion of these neonatal 
                    deaths (3.4 million) take place in the first week of life. 
                    More than 40% of neonatal deaths are caused by infection. 
                    Many cases of neonatal infection never reach treatment facilities, 
                    and the case-fatality rate for those that do ranges from 13% 
                    to 69%. CHR Approach CHR supports refinement of the IMCI approach for the health 
                    needs of very young infants through: Applied research on the cause of disease and death in this 
                    age group; Documenting the clinical signs to aid in diagnosis; and Research on the treatment and prevention strategies to 
                    reduce neonatal mortality. CHR has also been one of the major advocates for focusing 
                    attention on neonatal health. Selected CHR Achievements Field research has found that zinc supplements reduce mortality 
                    by 66% in low birth weight (SGA) infants. A large multi-center study in The Gambia, Papua New Guinea, 
                    The Philippines and Ethiopia documented that S. pneumoniae 
                    and S. aureus are the most common causes of severe infections 
                    (together comprising more than 40% of infections) in neonates 
                    and young children. This emphasizes the necessity to maintain 
                    adequate stocks of drug formularies to combat these common 
                    neonatal pathogens, and establish an urgent need to deliver 
                    conjugate pneumococcal vaccines to the developing world. Low birth weight (LBW), not premature birth, was found 
                    to be the most important determinant for subsequent poor growth 
                    in infants and children. Because most study infants experienced 
                    chronic intrauterine undernourishment, catch-up growth was 
                    highly restricted and weight, at 12 months, was highly correlated 
                    with birth weight. Improvement of LBW is likely to lead to 
                    increases in one-year weight and overall infant nutrition In the process of developing a new diagnostic tool and 
                    treatment approach for Group B Streptococcus and bacterial 
                    vaginosis, which are major causes of perinatal/neonatal deaths. Validated the verbal autopsy method for determining infant 
                    death in a nationwide study in Bangladesh. Integrated Management of Childhood Illness 
                    (IMCI) The 
					Challenge Surveys reveal that many sick children are not properly assessed 
                    and treated by health care providers in developing countries, 
                    and that their parents are poorly advised. At first-level 
                    health facilities in low-income countries, diagnostic supports 
                    such as radiology and laboratory services are minimal or non-existent, 
                    and drugs and equipment are often scarce. Limited supplies 
                    and equipment, combined with an irregular flow of patients, 
                    leave doctors at this level with few opportunities to practice 
                    complicated clinical procedures. Instead, they often rely 
                    on history and signs and symptoms to determine a course of 
                    management that makes the best use of the available resources. CHR Approach The three components to IMCI are: improving the skills of 
                    health workers; improving the health system, and improving 
                    household and community practices. IMCI is considered to be 
                    among the most cost-effective interventions in both low- and 
                    middle-income countries and most likely to have the greatest 
                    impact on the global burden of disease. As of December 2000, 
                    over 81 countries around the world have adopted IMCI guidelines. 
                    Much of CHR's work supports the refinement and implementation 
                    of IMCI. Through research and field tests, the CHR partners 
                    have developed, refined, and validated the IMCI guidelines. 
                    Implementation of CHR's results through IMCI allows for rapid 
                    dissemination of its findings, and to globally increase the 
                    quality of illness diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. CHR 
                    has 22 completed or ongoing tasks classified specifically 
                    as IMCI activities. However, IMCI related activities are also 
                    included under the categories of acute respiratory infection 
                    and diarrheal disease. Selected CHR Achievements Developed a tool to measure the effectiveness of counseling 
                    caregivers in treatment compliance that has been adopted by 
                    the Ugandan Ministry of Health as part of nationwide monitoring 
                    of worker performance. Developed simple guidelines for emergency triage assessment 
                    and treatment of patients in the developing world. Validated the basic IMCI outpatient guidelines for treatment 
                    of pneumonia, diarrhea, malnutrition and need for referral 
                    in six countries - these guidelines are the cornerstone of 
                    IMCI which are now widely implemented around the world. Validated IMCI guidelines were developed for need of referral 
                    in young infants and children with pneumonia in Bangladesh. Refined the malaria diagnosis guidelines for highly endemic 
                    areas. Developed an IMCI Course for Health Workers. CHR's new Special Report on Determinants of Antimicrobial Use in the Developing World Effect of Zinc Supplementation Started During Diarrhea on Morbidity and Mortality in Bangladeshi Children (British Medical Journal, November 2002) AIDS Is Your Business (Harvard Business Review, February 2003) Global Forum for Health report on Interventions Against Antimicrobial Resistance. PowerPoint slide show on INCLEN-IBIS's Surveillance of Antimicrobial Resistance in India. PowerPoint slide show on CHR's Research Results and Policy Formulation on Nutrition and Micronutrients. CHR Synopsis on the reformulation of Oral Rehydration Salts (ORS) solution. Perinatal 
      and Neonatal Health Interventions Research (Journal of Perinatology, October/November 
      2002) | Home | About 
      CHR | Resources | Fo