
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 08:07:30 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.2-1ubuntu4.14
Set-Cookie: bb_lastvisit=1335592325; expires=Sun, 28-Apr-2013 08:07:30 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: bb_lastactivity=0; expires=Sun, 28-Apr-2013 08:07:30 GMT; path=/
Cache-Control: private
Pragma: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Spine Specialists in Dallas. [Archive]  - Teri Today Message Board Teri Today Message Board > Diet & Fitness >  Spine Specialists in Dallas. PDA View Full Version : Spine Specialists in Dallas. MommaBean 04-10-2007, 12:15 PM I need HELP. I am desperate and lost .   Today after calling around where i live there are NO doctors that treat the spine here within 40 miles.  I was told I would have to go to Dallas.  Five hours away. I do not know where to start...I know no one in Dallas.  I am looking for an Orthopedic doctor that treats spinal problems..mainly complications stemming from severe debilitating scoliosis. Im not all about going to Dallas as soon as I can find a physician.  It isn't like it will be easy taking a road trip at this time..but at least I would like to find a physician that I feel will at least see me and evaluate my condition. Arg! nurscindi 04-10-2007, 01:10 PM My recommendation is to check with your Insurance carrier and find out the following. 1. Do you need a referral (PPO vs HMO or other point of care services) 2. If you need referral, do you have it? Many times the person making the recommendation should make the appointment for you. 3. Will you be out of network? If you are, what are your benefits? 4. Can the insurance company mail you a provider list with all doctors in the DFW area that are accepting your plan. It may seem as if I'm focusing on the money aspect, and maybe I am. This type of care is costly, and quite frankly the doctor is going to want to verify benefits before you drive 5 hours to see them, and then find out they aren't covered and you have a $300+ office bill for the consult (which is realistic). Other Thoughts... You have history of the spine problems, but pain doesnt always mean you need a surgical consult. If you havn't already begun the process of elimination then I would suggest you start with your PCP and ask about looking for signs up infection. Recommendations for possible exams would be 3-Phase Bone Scans, Indium Scan, Gallium Scan, or MRI's. My thoughts are that if you drive to Dallas, let there be a reason. These are tests that take time to schedule, perform and get results of. You don't get them done at drop of hat on outpatient basis. If you go to Dallas for consult, I can promise you that specilist is going to want one or more of the above tests. IMO better to come prepared, otherwise you have driven the distance for a verbal consultation. That doctor requests the exam. You then drive back home, get test, and return to Dallas at later date. Why not go prepared? I would also ask for ESR and CRP labs and go from there. I know a lot of doctors in the metro area, some in this specility, but I don't know who is on your plan. mvahalik 04-10-2007, 01:18 PM I need HELP. I am desperate and lost . Today after calling around where i live there are NO doctors that treat the spine here within 40 miles. I was told I would have to go to Dallas. Five hours away. I do not know where to start...I know no one in Dallas. I am looking for an Orthopedic doctor that treats spinal problems..mainly complications stemming from severe debilitating scoliosis. Im not all about going to Dallas as soon as I can find a physician. It isn't like it will be easy taking a road trip at this time..but at least I would like to find a physician that I feel will at least see me and evaluate my condition. Arg! Just a thought - you might check into cities where you do have family members living.  I'm not really sure what kind of treatment or whatever will come from what you're doing but it's always good to have a support system.  So even if you had to go further, it might be worth it to not have hotel costs, food costs, etc. MommaBean 04-10-2007, 02:41 PM thank you.  fortunately we have insurance we do not need referrals.  and NO ONE in this city will even evaluate me (believe me i called EVERY doctor in midland/odessa).  the PCP today told me he wanted to put me on antidepressants first and foremost (i told him i do not need them i am not depressed and i know what depression is been there done that)...he said well i need them because i seem moody upset and extremely irritable.  DUH Hi my middle name right now is irritation because i am in so much pain 80% of my days.  he also would NOT take any evaluations and said well you are in pain because you have scoliosis.  (well duh i am having pain because i am having some sort of either complications from the scoliosis or somethign else is wrong) he said well how would you know something is wrong other than your scoliosis you have no doctor degree.  i said i KNOW my own damn body.  he pissed me off  more than any doctor in my life (and believe me ive had my fair share of nut jobs)...i left crying upset and still in PAIN.  he said unless i want to start physical therapy nothing could be done for me.  i told him i CANNOT do the therapy.  sorry the last time i was in therapy i was told flat out till the pain is managed therapy will not be beneficial.  he flat out said that isnt possible no therapist would do such a thing.. im still searching for a primary care out here to do something for me. and im praying i can find something.   and from talking to 12 different offices.  the only option is to go to dallas. and i wish i had family that is a luxory i do not have.  NO family members any where.  the one aunt i do talk to is back home in indianapolis. my brother just took the boys to target...and to get food.  i am going to go find my heating pad..four hundred pillows to prop up against and sit in bed and just pray that i can find someone in this city to at least help me out even the tiniest of bits. carj 04-10-2007, 03:05 PM What about Lubbock or Amarillo? Is there anyone there who could see you? In Dallas, Scottish Rite Hospital treats a lot of scoliosis patients. Maybe you could ask them for a suggestion. (They only see children 18 and under.) I am sure that they have some suggestions for adults. twinmom 04-10-2007, 06:26 PM the PCP today told me he wanted to put me on antidepressants first and foremost (i told him i do not need them i am not depressed and i know what depression is been there done that)...he said well i need them because i seem moody upset and extremely irritable. DUH Hi my middle name right now is irritation because i am in so much pain 80% of my days. In all seriousness...I'd reconsider those depression meds.  Extreme pain can cause depression, and antidepression medication can actually reduce physical pain as well as psychological pain.  Raising serotonin levels (a brain chemical that antidepressants work on) can make pain much more tolerable, as well as reducing the side effect of the ensuing depression.  I've seen it work many times in my work as a therapist. So...your doctor may be on to something.  I'd give it a try.  It certainly can't hurt and it might really help.  At least it might give you the edge you need to be able to do therapy and/or feel well enough to make it until you get the evals that you are seeking. Jennifer ericaj 04-10-2007, 06:43 PM have you thought about a chiropractor? i have a slight scolosis in the lower part of my spine ON TOP OF having a spine that is too straight = yes sounds like an oxymoron, but when you see the xrays it's true.  i also have pelvic rotation that they cannot tell if it is a result of my last pregnancy or something else. the chiro. did some pushing thing on my hip and ahhhhhhhhhh.. relief.  he has also recommended stretches to help relax the muscles. see about consulting one before looking into driving 5 hrs. nurscindi 04-10-2007, 06:55 PM With all due respect, I couldn't disagree with you more about not being able to do physical therapy because of pain. NOT moving causes more pain. If you get moving, do the exercises you will have less pain. It's a fact. Muscles atrophy when not used, and then attempting to reuse them creates more pain. As someone who lives in excruitiating pain every day (and has for a few years) I can tell a definate difference between when I exercise/get moving, and when I don't. Sometimes you just have to suck it up and work past it. While I can appreciate your anger, I think you need to refocus. I also agree with Jennifers statement on Antidepressants. Perhaps it's time to stop trying to find someone who will tell you what you want to hear, and actually try something that someone (one of the docs you've seen) has suggested? trenthamfamily 04-11-2007, 06:29 AM Let me ask my husband. He has to have an operation on a ruptured disk in his back and in his field knows many doctors. I will ask him for you. We're in Plano just north of dallas if that isn't too far. Admin Irock 04-11-2007, 08:02 AM I thought of chiropractor when I read your post too, and also, aren't meds used for depression used for other purposes also?  A girlfriend with migraines was prescribed anti depressants, helped her sleep better, which helped her migraines. twinmom 04-11-2007, 09:00 AM Yep, that's right.  Antidepressants are sometimes used as sleep aids and for migraine pain relief. Jennifer dzpeaches1414 04-11-2007, 09:51 AM I actually just read an article (either on WebMD or Yahoo Health) that said that anti-depressants are being used more and more to treat back pain and are extremely successful...didn't really understand why but I thought it was interesting.  They also said that you should exercise more which as someone who suffers from extreme back pain and has for years which can seem daunting to people in pain.  They mentioned light yoga and stretching as being extremely helpful. nurscindi 04-11-2007, 10:01 AM I wanted add that while antidepressant medication is wonderful and used for a wide range of problems (both as indicated and off label), they do not however have immediate results (rare exceptions). Most of the drugs in this classification take somewhere between 2-6 weeks of continous compliant therapy before you can see a therapeutic response, and 12 weeks is usually considered the min length of time to use before determining if the drug is a failure or not. Also, sometimes you need to try more than 1 drug, or change doseage to get the desired response. My point..don't take 1 pill on day 1 and think everything is better. You must stick with it for long period of time, and for some a lifetime, but it's better than being ill. shilton 04-11-2007, 10:35 AM I took the antidepressants to help me sleep a few years ago, and am considering asking my doctor for them again since I am back to not sleeping well.  I really don't think they mean something is wrong with you, that used to be the thought but not anymore. woohoo 04-11-2007, 11:28 AM I know you're frustrated and I understand, but I think you ought to be open to what your doc and everyone has suggested.  My next exam I'm going to talk to my doc about them for my migraines, I can't find anything to work on them anymore, or the side effects are too much for me.  I'm also starting menopause, I'm not depressed at all, but think they might help with alot of what's going on.  A few of my co workers going through the menopause thing are taking Effexor and say that has helped them alot.  The docs I used to work with were always open to their patient's thoughts and ideas, but they're the docs, and if you didn't follow their plan of treatment and were non compliant they'd fire you as a patient.  That's a rep you don't want to get when the new doc is requesting your records.  You may not be depressed, but your outlook has to certainly be glum to be in that much pain.  I'd really give it a try. trenthamfamily 04-12-2007, 06:31 AM I checked with my husband and he highly recommended the Texas Back Institute. They're highly accredited and have a great reputation for having great doctors. He also said that it depends on what you're having done but that's a great place to start. MommaBean 04-12-2007, 08:05 AM I checked with my husband and he highly recommended the Texas Back Institute. They're highly accredited and have a great reputation for having great doctors. He also said that it depends on what you're having done but that's a great place to start. thanks! i'll have to look into them. twinmom 04-12-2007, 04:52 PM If you are coming to Dallas anyway, I can give you the name of a great therapist who specializes in pain management.  She's awesome...used to work for me, so I know personally that she's excellent.  PM me if you want the name. Jennifer Hometeacher 04-14-2007, 07:47 PM I was treated through the Texas Back Institute 13 yrs ago. I was very impressed 