
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: No-Cache, no-store, must-revalidate,cache
Pragma: No-Cache,cache
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Expires: Sun, 26 Dec 1999 01:01:01 GMT,Mon, 06 Jan 2070 00:00:01 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
Set-Cookie: SITENAME=www%2Egardenofcures%2Ecom;expires=Fri, 18-Feb-2011 20:19:37 GMT;path=/
cm-server: Web6
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 20:19:37 GMT
Connection: close

Organic Soothingly Heady Herbal Tea-Bags ( Headaches) Home Organic Herb Seed A-Z The RARE Herb Seed Biodynamic Seeds Medical Herb Collections MEDICAL EDIBLES Hot Climate Tomato Seed. FACE Masques & Scrubs. Organic BODY Scrubs LOTION,TONER & SKIN CARE. SHAMPOO, HAIR CARE. Face, Bath & HAIR HERBALS SOLAR Infused OIL & SALVE BATH Therapeutic SPA. Organic Mom, Baby & Child HERBAL HANDCRAFTED Soaps OLIVE OIL HANDMADE Soaps GOAT MILK SOAP & GIFTS Organic HERBAL TEAS HERBAL HEALTH FORMULAS Organic AROMA Sachet. Baking & Condiments NATURAL CLEAN HOME. FEATURED HERB! Organic Herb Growing. View Cart DONATE & CONTACT. Amber's Affliction & Aim. Amber's Organics Team. Newsletters Links Organic Herbal & Medical Tea's. > Organic Soothingly Heady Herbal Tea-Bags ( Headaches) View Cart (0) | Checkout The product you selected is currently unavailable. View Product Images Price: $6.50 Sale Price: No Price Prod. Code: At last, after many requests, I have created this herbal tea for migraines and headaches. Each herb is specially prepared as a T- Bag to making it easier to enjoy the pleasant flavor and soothing properties. This blend contains the profound head healer Wood betony and migraine eradicating, clinically tested, Feverfew, I also added some other herbal soothers in this tea including relaxing Lavender buds.  It helps more than just the head, so be warned you might feel quite a lot better! Feverfew ( Tanacetum parthenium ), a member of the sunflower family, has been used for centuries in European folk medicine as a remedy for headaches, arthritis, and fevers. The term feverfew is adapted from the Latin word febrifugia or "fever reducer. Feverfew is also used to treat menstrual irregularities, labor difficulties, skin conditions, stomach aches, and asthma. The recent reports of research indicate that continually taking feverfew extracts may decrease the symptoms of migraine headaches. Feverfew gained popularity in Great Britain in the 1980s as an alternative to conventional medications for migraine headaches. A survey of 270 migraine sufferers in Great Britain revealed that more than 70% of individuals felt substantially better after ingesting an average of 2 - 3 fresh feverfew leaves daily. Several controlled human trials have been conducted using feverfew for migraine prevention and treatment. Overall, these studies suggest that feverfew taken daily as dried leaf capsules may reduce the incidence of attacks in patients who experience long-term migraine headaches. The  							restorative benefits of the tea are the gradual result of continued  							use, so please keep up the tea and give it at least a good chance. herbs can be slow acting but longer lasting. I have found that wood Betony is excellent for  							headaches of all sorts (tension and migraine alike),  							and beyond that have seen it to act in a decidedly  							restorative manner.   I have noted several  							instances when, in addition to its more immediate  							effects,  regular daily use of Wood Betony as a  							simple has decreased the frequency and intensity of  							chronic headaches until their occurrence was  							drastically reduced or even eliminated altogether. In regards to "how Betony works", there are likely  							myriad factors at play.  Like most mint family  							plants, it possesses both stimulating and relaxant  							properties.  This may seem contradictory, but  							only if we make the false assumption that  							stimulation and relaxation exist at opposing ends of  							a spectrum.  In truth, the stimulation is of  							the circulation of the body's vital energy, and the  							relaxation is of the resistance to that  							circulation. Wood Betony also acts as a tonic for the digestive tract,  							and is believed to strengthen the solar plexus.   							The solar plexus is believed to house a person's  							instincts and intuitive faculties; this is why we  							have expressions like "gut feelings" and "trust your  							gut".  By freeing energy trapped in the head  							and strengthening the solar plexus, Wood Betony will  							be of aid to people who ignore their gut feelings  							and try to intellectualize and rationalize all that  							goes on around them.  We might imagine the  							person who meets someone and intuitively gets a "bad  							feeling" from them, but then chides themselves for  							being "judgmental" and then ends of in some baleful  							relationship replete with all the qualities  							foreboded by their initial impression.    							Wood Betony, I deem, is useful in such situations. 10 hand-made T- Bags. Plea