
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 23:34:18 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Expectant mums advised to quit smoking - Stopsmoking News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Expectant Mums Advised To Quit Smoking 26/04/2011 Expectant mums advised to quit smoking by David Howells A growing number of expectant mothers could soon take to stop smoking hypnotherapy , after it emerged that smoking was the second biggest cause of stillbirths in the UK. A report published in the Lancet Medical Journal showed that six per cent of all stillbirths - around 3,000 - are due to the mother smoking during pregnancy. With smoking during pregnancy inhibiting the growth of the foetus in the womb, doctors have called for pregnant women or those trying for a baby should seriously consider all options available to them for giving up or risk causing serious harm to their child. They have also been advised to consider lifestyle choices, as second-hand smoke can also cause detriment to the foetus. An NHS Stop Smoking Specialist from Somerset, Jonathan Chetland, told MedicalNewsToday.com : "We know of the harmful effects of smoking on the foetus because of the direct exposure to toxins when cigarette smoke is inhaled by the mother." "By stopping smoking, the risk of having a stillbirth can be significantly reduced." A course of stop smoking hypnotherapy would involve changing the habits of the person undergoing the therapy so they feel less dependent on cigarettes. It promotes a positive, healthy outlook and puts measures in place to help deal with the cravings without resorting to other substitutes. Treehugger also confirmed the advice of Smokefree Families Advisor, Tracey Hellyar, who warned: "All mums-to-be want to have a healthy baby. If you smoke, quitting will have immediate benefits for you and your baby." "We know stopping smoking is not always easy but there is lots of help and support available." To find out how the Therapy Lounge can help Stop Smoking click here Anxiety can "cripple" peo : Next → ← Previous : Friends should tell each By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2