Vary: Accept-Encoding

Dental Sealants Keswick Bradford Home Our Team Locations Keswick Bradford Patient Services Frequently Asked Questions Testimonials Contact Us DENTAL BLOG Dental Sealants A dental sealant is a material that is applied on the surface of the teeth to prevent tooth decay that may be brought on by bacteria. This procedure is more common to children and teenagers as they may not be so keen on brushing their teeth regularly, or maintaining good oral health without supervision. The sealant is placed on the surface of the molars as they harbor most bacteria and are prone to more damage. Bacteria results from unchecked food particles that may be lodged between teeth. If not properly brushed off, the bacteria cause plaque (the black stuff on teeth), and in due time cause the teeth to decay. With the help of a dental sealant, the bacteria can be separated from the enamel of the teeth, thus preventing the bacteria from growing on it and causing more damage. Obviously children and teenagers are the best candidates for dental sealants as their dental structure is still young and developing, thus able to benefit more. Adults too can have dental sealants put to prevent tooth decay and other complications, but the number that does is minimal due to the numerous other options available for them. During the visit to the dentist for the sealant placement procedure, the tooth is cleaned and dried first. Then a solution that makes the surface of the tooth rough is applied; this is to make the bonding with the sealant stronger and stable. The tooth is then washed off and dried again, with the sealant being placed on the tooth in liquid form. Time for the sealant to harden takes a little more than 8 minutes. Generally, the procedure is pain free and will take under half an hour to accomplish. Dental sealants can take up to 10 years without losing their edge, and should be regularly checked by a dentist to ensure it is still effective. However, once in a while the sealant may grind off, and a dentist may be required to apply the sealant again. Dental sealants were not the first choice to help protect tooth decay on the smooth surfaces of the skin; that was left to fluoride treatments. However, fluorides could not protect the surfaces with pits and fissures (the back teeth), and thus dental sealants emerged. They have been approved by governments and health organizations all over, and should you feel your child or yourself needs the procedure done, go ahead and do it. Share Tweet Copyright © 2010 R