Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Herbal supplements for managing and reducing hot flashes. 34 MENOPAUSE SYMPTOMS HEALTH CENTER LEARN MORE Menopause Symptoms Herbs for Menopause 34 MENOPAUSE SYMPTOMS Usual Symptoms Hot Flashes Night Sweats Irregular Periods Loss of Libido Vaginal Dryness Changes Crashing Fatigue Difficulty Concentrating Hair Loss Sleep Disorders Weight Gain Feelings Anxiety Depression Memory Lapses Mood Swings Pains Breast Tenderness Migraines & Headaches Osteoporosis Other Symptoms READ ABOUT Natural Hormones Sexual Health Infertility Herbal supplements for managing and reducing hot flashes HOT FLASHES SECTIONS Introduction About Hot Flashes Hot Flashes Causes Hot Flashes Treatments As you know, hot flashes are linked to decreased levels of estrogen in a woman's body during menopause. Therefore, it is most important to ensure that you are giving your body the support it needs to maintain good hormonal levels. The first step to take in controlling hot flashes is to get your body healthy by following a nutritious diet and some kind of exercise program. However, because balancing hormonal levels is the key to relieving hot flashes, you should keep in mind that  a healthy diet and exercise program alone may not be enough to give relief, nor is it always easy to stick with such a healthy regimen. The best way to cope with hot flashes is  to follow a healthy lifestyle, complemented by a hormonal imbalance treatment such as alternative medicine. Healthy lifestyle: A healthy diet and a regular exercise program will help to alleviate hot flashes. However, a healthy lifestyle alone may not effect the main cause of hot flashes, hormonal imbalance; the following tips can help you to reduce the intensity and frequency of hot flashes. Since hot flashes are caused by low hormonal levels, a hormone balancing program is the best solution. Although there are several ways to manage hot flashes, the best way is to combine therapies such as "lifestyle approaches" with alternative medicine. Treatment for Estrogen Imbalance: Hormones like estrogen play a very important role in women's bodies, and hormonal imbalance can cause the whole body to suffer, triggering many symptoms including hot flashes. In fact, estrogen hormone imbalance causes many other disorders as well, such as decreased sexual desire, infertility, and menopause and its associated symptoms. These are just some of the reasons why it is so important to keep hormonal levels in balance. Though the pharmaceutical companies would have you believe that drugs are the best solution for treating hormonal imbalance, that isn't the case. Before you decide to take synthetic hormones, you might want to consider less risky approaches, like alternative medicine or lifestyle changes. The medical establishment is becoming increasingly interested in alternative medicine, since breast and ovarian cancer as well as heart disease, blood clots and other side effects are linked to conventional HRT treatment. Keep reading below to learn about the most effective treatments for hot flashes during menopause. HOT FLASHES SECTIONS HOT FLASHES SECTIONS Introduction About Hot Flashes Hot Flashes Causes Hot Flashes Treatments Treatment for Hot Flashes with MacaActive As you have already read, estrogen hormone imbalance is a natural part of the aging process.  Therefore, if you want relief from this undesirable symptom, you must restore estrogen hormones to healthy levels. Today there are three effective ways to normalize hormonal levels: lifestyle changes, alternative medicine and drugs & surgery. Lifestyle Changes: The first level of treatment involves no risk, but may be the hardest way to go because you'll have to restrict yourself from many things. That's why most people consider the next level of treatment, alternative medicine, which has proven to be excellent for treating estrogen imbalance in a safe and natural way. Alternative medicine: There are two types of herbal supplements for treating estrogen imbalance: those consisting of phytoestrogenic herbs, and those consisting of non-estrogenic herbs. Phytoestrogenic herbs (like Black Cohosh) are made of phytoestrogens, which are similar to estrogens. They can increase low estrogen levels by replacing some of the missing estrogen hormones. This isn't the best solution, however, because your body will become less responsive to producing estrogen on its own. This causes a further decrease in body-own hormone levels. Unlike phytoestrogen herbs, non-estrogenic herbs don't contain  estrogen, but nourish hormonal glands into working more efficiently. This ultimately results in balancing not only estrogen, but other necessary hormones, as well. Use of non-estrogenic herbs is thus one of the best and safest ways to treat estrogen imbalance naturally. An excellent example of a safe and effective non-estrogenic herb for hormonal imbalance is herbal MacaActive. What makes MacaActive so special is its ability to balance hormonal levels in women by nourishing the hormonal glands. It alleviates most disorders related to hormonal imbalance and estrogen imbalance. to read more about MacaActive. Drugs and Surgery: This level of treatment has the highest risk and often the highest costs. The most common drug therapy for treating estrogen imbalance in the US is hormone replacement therapy (HRT). There's no doubt that this is the quickest and strongest way to combat hormonal imbalance. Unfortunately, it causes serious side effects and increases the risk of different types of cancer in women.  If you still want to consider this approach, see your doctor to learn more about what this treatment option involves. A safe way to balance hormones: Non-estrogenic herbs are the most effective treatment for hormonal imbalance, specifically estrogen imbalance, and its associated disorders. MacaActive is an excellent non-estrogenic herb. It's simple: rather than putting hormones from the outside into your body artificially, MacaActive stimulates your hormone glands into producing the  hormones your body needs naturally. This is what makes MacaActive supplements so unique. to read all about MacaActive. Copyright© 2008 - Herbal supplements