
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 08:32:47 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10-2ubuntu6.5
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 08:32:47 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Honey | ENCOGNITIVE.COM Home Account Register Log in Contact freewill@encognitive.com About About EnCognitive Disclaimer Research Knowledge Base Nutrients Neurotransmitters Superfoods Hormones Anatomy Antioxidants Botanicals Articles Answers Interviews Videos (external) Images Library Forum News News by categories Videos (EnCognitive) Doctor's corner Cancer dictionary Store Books Home :: SUPERFOODS :: SPICES AND CONDIMENTS Honey Buzzing With Nutrition Tagged: Honey Discusses the nutritional aspects of honey. Offer of fructose, glucose, water and other sugars, enzymes, vitamins, minerals and amino acids; Therapeutic powers of honey; Bug-killing properties of... 1 attachment The process of heat pasteurization of honey to kill bacteria also kills its essential phytonutrients and enzymes Tagged: Honey The article presents information about honey. The process of heat pasteurization of honey to kill bacteria also kills its essential phytonutrients and enzymes. But there are stores that provide n... 1 attachment A spoonful of honey makes the mucositis go down Tagged: Honey The article describes the case of forty patients with head and neck cancer who were randomly assigned to take honey during radiation treatment to the oropharyngeal mucosa to determine whether hon... 1 attachment Manuka honey for healing wonders Tagged: Honey The article talks about honey, which comes from the New Zealand Manuka bush or tea tree and has been used by the Maoris to treat flu and heal skin and stomach illnesses. The antibacterial action ... 1 attachment The Effect of Dilution on the Rate of Hydrogen Peroxide Production in Honey and Its Implications for Wound Healing Tagged: Honey Objective: Honey is an effective antiseptic wound dressing, mainly the result of the antibacterial activity of hydrogen peroxide that is produced in honey by the enzyme glucose oxidase. Because t... 1 attachment 1 2 3 next › last » Shopping cart There are no products in your shopping cart. 0 Items Total: $0.00 N