Connection: close

Eight Remedies Treat Diabetes Naturally Home | About NaturalNews | Contact Us | Write for NaturalNews | Media Info | Advertise with Natural News Select a Topic... Breast Cancer Chlorella Fluoride Heart Disease HFCS Superfoods Spirulina Eight Remedies Treat Diabetes Naturally Friday, October 16, 2009 by: Barbi Trejo See all articles by this author Share Tweet Pin It (NaturalNews) Kirt Tyson, former type I diabetic was interviewed by Mike Adams. In the interview Kirt Tyson revealed that his diet was completely raw with no fruits. He ate only vegetables, seeds and nuts. He cured his diabetes on this simple 30 day raw diet. The once debilitating disease can now be treated with going on a raw diet and making some life changing decisions. Not only can you go raw, but you can also use these eight natural herbs and remedies to survive diabetes. There are many remedies available today and some work better than others. Like the raw diet, it all depends on your body and your genetics. No cure works one hundred percent of the time for everyone. A raw diet is only the beginning. Continuing to eat healthy for the rest of your life ensures that you too can be free of this disease returning. Besides going raw and eliminating sugar out of your life, you must switch to raw milk or its alternatives. In the book, The Devil in the Milk, Dr. Kevin Woodford explains how the type of milk we drink, directly reflects of the high incidence of many diseases, including diabetes and cancers. There are many substitutes available from almond milk to oat milk. They are extremely healthy and easy to make. Eight Types of Natural Remedies Available Today: 1. Fig Leaves Fig leaves are best known for treating diabetes, but there are many other uses for the fig leaves. There are many homemade remedies from treating diabetes to treating bronchitis, genital warts, liver cirrhosis, high blood pressure, skin problems and ulcers. Fig leaves are not used as much as they should be. Most of the remedies for the fig leaves use the sap or the milk of the sacred tree. Fig tinctures or poultices should be used immediately and fresh batches made daily. The big news with the use of fig leaves is that they have anti-diabetic properties. The diabetic needs less insulin when on a treatment of using the fig leaf extract. The diabetic should take the extract with breakfast, first thing in the morning. An additional remedy is to boil the leaves of the fig in some freshly filtered waster and drink this as a tea. Read the whole article on fig leaves and diabetes: http://www.naturalnews.com/027050_figs_health_water.html 2. Black Seed Black seed, also known as Nigella Sativa is a cure for all diseases, except death and considered to be a miraculous cure. It has been used for everything from acne to pancreatic cancers and doctors are raving about the results. Read about this remedy that has been used for over 2000 years. http://www.naturalnews.com/026868_Nigella_Sativa_migraine_seeds.html For seven days take 6 teaspoons of the oil. Take the oil three different times of the day. Then take 2 teaspoons in the morning and 2 in the evening for 4 days. Follow by taking 2 teaspoons of the oil for two days. Take plenty of water in the morning and rub the oil all over the body for 10 days. You must mix the oil with fruit juice. Repeat this treatment if you do not see any improvement. Another remedy for the treatment of diabetes is to take one half cup of the seeds that have been heated and a half cup of water cress seeds (mustard seeds can be substituted) and a 1/4 cup of ground pomegranate peel. Place these all in a blender and pulse well to a fine powder. Add in 1/8 cup of fumitory. Each day take one teaspoon of the ground powder and one teaspoon of the oil, one hour before you eat. Do this for at least one month. 3. Fenugreek Take 5-30 grams with each meal or up to 90 grams once a day. Do not take more than 100 grams as it will cause an upset stomach and make a person nauseated. Fenugreek cannot be taken at the same time as other medicines. You must wait at least one hour and preferably two before taking fenugreek. Diarrhea and gas are common side effects of fenugreek. Warnings about taking fenugreek: If you notice these side effects stop taking fenugreek right away: difficulty in breathing, tightness in chest, rash, swollen and itchy skin. Also if you are pregnant, consult your physician before taking fenugreek. 4. Cinnamon Cinnamon has long been reported as a good source for the treatment of diabetes, due to a study done in 2003 by Khan and associates. 60 people were tested in the group and one third of the group was given a placebo. The end results were very impressive and the overall health of the group was increased with glucose down 18 percent; LDL cholesterol and triglycerides also showed reduced levels. Everyone was excited and the word of using cinnamon spread. According to Cancer Tutor.com, "At least 1/2 teaspoon a day, which is critical to "soften" the cell membranes. Cinnamon mimics insulin, thus it may lower your need for insulin immediately." 5. Grape seed Extract Grape seed extract has been proven to improve the conditions associated with this disease. Grape seed performed greatly in studies conducted in 2006 in Toyama Japan, in 2009 in Romania and also in Portsmouth UK. Grape seed was successful in protecting the liver cells and setting up defense mechanisms against reactive oxygen species produced by hyperglycemic conditions. Grape seed comes in capsules of 50-100mg. It is usually suggested to take 50mg per 50 lbs of weight, not to exceed 300mg per day. Whole grape seeds are the best alternative, which need to be ground and placed in vegetarian capsules. Taking 3 capsules a day is enough. The time of day does not matter. 6. Olive Oil The Department of Health Sciences of the University of Jaen is researching the correlation between preventing diabetes and the consumption of olive oil. Through research, they have found that an oil rich diet may prevent diabetes. By using olive oil, you can reduce your blood levels including LDL and triglycerides. By olive oil reducing the cholesterol levels, you can prevent such diseases as cardiovascular, atherosclerosis and diabetes. Prevention of diabetes begins with weight management and proper diet. The Mediterranean diet has been shown beneficial in the treatment of diabetes by using olive oil, which is monounsaturated instead of saturated fats. Before sleeping drink 1/4 cup of olive oil. If you prefer to use lecithin, mix one tablespoon of lecithin with one tablespoon of olive oil. Keep in mind that one cup of olive oil has 2000 calories. Just because it is healthy does not mean a person can ignore the calorie intake. To learn how olive oil cures over 60 diseases, read this article: http://www.naturalnews.com/027094_olive_oil_health_olives.html 7. Bitter Melon Researchers have proven that bitter melon works great with the treatment of diabetes. It contains insulin like properties which help in the lowering of the blood and urine levels. It is suggested to be used frequently. The bitter melon should be juiced and then taken on an empty stomach before eating first thing in the morning. The seeds may be ground to a powder and eaten also. You can also, make a tea from the bitter melon. 8. Vitamin C and Diabetes Researchers have found that using from 100-600mg of vitamin C daily can cause you to normalize your sugar levels, in as little as one month. Diabetics have a complication of too much sugar, sorbitol, in the body, which eventually leads to eye and nerve damage. Home Made Remedies It should be noted that there are no case studies about these home remedies, only people testifying to their personal success. 1. Avocado Take one avocado seed and grill the seed. Slice the seed into several chunks. Add this to a pot of water and bring to boil, wait till the water turns brown. Strain the water mixture and drink when cool. Expect to see results within two weeks. 2.Apples Take one apple and cut into chunks. Place the apple in a pan with 4 cups of water and bring to boil and cook until the water is reduced in half. Drink this morning and night. It is expected to show relief within two months. Diabetes does not have to be a life threatening disease. It is possible and probable with natural remedies to allow the patient to live a normal and healthy life. Resources: Cunningham JJ et al. Vitamin C: an aldose reductase inhibitor that normalizes erythrocyte sorbitol in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. J Am Coll Nutr. 1994 Aug. 13; 4: 344-5. http://www.naturalnews.com/027011_diabetes_food_raw_food.html http://www.naturalnews.com/026568_diabetes_vitamin_C_blood.html http://www.aboras.com/english/ http://www.phytochemicals.info/research/grape-glucose-oxidative-stres... http://mamaherbs.com About the author Barbi Trejo is a natural hygiene foodist and loves the medicine of the earth.  After being diagnosed with MS and early onset dementia last year, she cured herself using herbs and juicing from the earth.  She now spends her time helping others. Barbi Trejo lives in Jordan with her cat, Baby.  Barbi is  writes for Suite101, Break Studios and Associated Content. She moderates four forums and six blogs in her spare time. Barbi has just released her first eBook entitled, "Everything You Would Ever Want to Know About Black Seeds (Nigella sativa) and more. It can be seen at http://nigellasativa.weebly.com Barbi is also a Twitter Manager for many of the top Natural Health Writers here on Natural News.com and Corporations. To learn more about how Twitter can benefit you, contact her at sarassoupkitchen@yahoo.com and make sure to put Twitter as the reason for the email. Stay informed! FREE subscription to the Health Ranger's email newsletter Get breaking health news + a LIFETIME 7% discount on everything at the NaturalNews Store Join two million monthly readers. Email privacy 100% protected. Unsubscribe at
any time. Articles Related to This Article: • American Diabetes Association peddling nutritional nonsense while accepting money from manufacturer of candy and sodas • Chemical Causes of Diabetes: Overeating Is Not  the Only Problem • Chromium prevents diabetes by improving insulin sensitivity • Diabetes and Hispanic Americans: more than just genetics • DNA and Mitochondrial Time Bombs: Uranium and Mercury • Antidepressants Associated With Increased Risk of Diabetes in Pre-Diabetics (press release) Related video from NaturalNews.TV Your NaturalNews.TV video could be here. Upload your own videos at NaturalNews.TV (FREE) Have comments on this article? Post them here: people have commented on this article. Related Articles: • American Diabetes Association peddling nutritional nonsense while accepting money from manufacturer of candy and sodas • Chemical Causes of Diabetes: Overeating Is Not  the Only Problem • Chromium prevents diabetes by improving insulin sensitivity • Diabetes and Hispanic Americans: more than just genetics • DNA and Mitochondrial Time Bombs: Uranium and Mercury • Antidepressants Associated With Increased Risk of Diabetes in Pre-Diabetics (press release) Take Action: Support NaturalNews.com Email this article to a friend Share this article on : NewsVine | digg | del.icio.us Permalink to this article: http://www.naturalnews.com/027252_diabetes_oil_remedies.html Reprinting this article: Non-commercial use OK, cite NaturalNews.com with clickable link. Embed article link: (copy HTML code below): Eight Remedies Treat Diabetes Naturally Most Popular Today | Week | Month | Year Whitney Houston yet another victim of pharmaceutical drug industry (UPDATE 2) Timeline of celebrities killed by Big Pharma: Whitney Houston, Michael Jackson, Heath Ledger, Farrah Fawcett, Elvis and more Whitney Houston killed by prescription drugs and alcohol, not drowning, say coroner officials 12 top food choices for a healthy heart USA censorship on the rise as YouTube censors video critical of government; Fox News pulls Judge Napolitano's Freedom Watch HFCS explained: Here's why it's far more dangerous to your health than table sugar Alkaline-forming foods prevent acid reflux, heartburn, GERD and Barrett's Esophagus Walnuts help protect against prostate cancer, osteoporosis, and CHD, but the FDA does not want you to know When the Spanish conquistadors arrived in the Americas, they forbade the cultivation of two of the world's best sources of vegetable protein FBI rips through innocent woman's door with a chainsaw Genetically modified mosquitoes may soon be released in Florida Texas now requiring meningitis vaccination for all college students Whitney Houston yet another victim of pharmaceutical drug industry (UPDATE 2) FBI says paying for your morning coffee with cash a potential terrorist activity, urges coffee shop owners to report cash-paying customers to authorities Five lies personal growth gurus love to tell Congress OKs 30,000 flying drones spying on Americans across U.S. cities Genetically modified mosquitoes may soon be released in Florida Herbal treatments prevent balding, stop hair loss and re-grow hair Neotame the next aspartame? FDA doesn't require labeling of latest chemical sweetener from Monsanto Whitney Houston killed by prescription drugs and alcohol, not drowning, say coroner officials Bill Gates exposed for funding research, promotion of spraying geo-engineered 'chemtrails' across globe Colloidal silver cures MRSA infections, purifies water, destroys candida and fights the flu - In spite of FDA ban Eye-opening vaccine documentary 'The Greater Good' available exclusively at NaturalNews through Feb 21 Must-see film: Pink Ribbons, Inc Oklahoma lawmaker wants to stop Pepsi from using aborted fetus cells in soda flavoring research CDC researchers say mothers should stop breastfeeding to boost 'efficacy' of vaccines TSA agents steal $40,000 from passenger luggage; sentenced to only five months in prison FDA finally admits chicken meat contains cancer-causing arsenic (but keep eating it, yo!) FBI says paying for your morning coffee with cash a potential terrorist activity, urges coffee shop owners to report cash-paying customers to authorities Why McDonald's Happy Meal hamburgers won't decompose - the real story behind the story Study: Nearly all women with breast cancer have parabens in their breast tissue SOPA and PIPA bills could threaten natural health websites with government-ordered shutdown Proof that the cancer industry doesn't want a cure - even if it's a pharmaceutical Vitamins and herbs for strong, healthy hair Understand the calcium myth; here's what really makes healthy bones Whitney Houston yet another victim of pharmaceutical drug industry (UPDATE 2) R.I.P. Bill of Rights 1789 - 2011 FDA finally admits chicken meat contains cancer-causing arsenic (but keep eating it, yo!) 14 signs that the collapse of our modern world has already begun Collecting rainwater now illegal in many states as Big Government claims ownership over our water Forensic evidence emerges that European e.coli superbug was bioengineered to produce human fatalities 7 surprising things you're not supposed to know about sunscreen and sunlight exposure Anti-foaming agent found in Chicken McNuggets Artificial Sweetener Disease; a new breed of sickness Boost Low White Blood Cell Count and Immune Function Naturally Thirty-six predictions for the world: 2010 - 2012 CDC warns Americans to prepare for zombie apocalypse (really) Should you leave the USA before the collapse? Words of wisdom from someone who tried See all Top Headlines... GET YOUR FREE GIFT + SHOW DETAILS. Now Available from NaturalNews.TV Across the Web Bill Gates exposed for funding research, promotion of spraying geo-engineered 'chemtrails' across globe (NaturalNews) Lawmaker Wants To Ban Retail Receipts With Toxic Chemical (CBS Chicago) "No Food Rights" Judge quits to work for Monsanto law firm (Food Freedom) To Everyone Feeling Screwed Over by the Economy (Permaculture Research Institute) CDC researchers say mothers should stop breastfeeding to boost 'efficacy' of vaccines (NaturalNews) Healthy Sex (NaturalNews) LA school district students would rather starve than eat healthy menu items (NaturalNews) Health insurance company preys upon the poor with junk food reward program for vaccinating your baby (NaturalNews) Drug company implosion as Novartis and others slash U.S. jobs (Reuters) Told ya so! Now TSA says it won't test employees for radiation after all (Infowars) Repeat business? FDA approves new cancer drug to treat toxicity caused by another cancer drug (Reuters) U.S. treasury raids federal employee pension funds to cover debts (Yahoo News) Grapes found to help prevent age-related blindness (Eurekalert) One in five American adults mentally ill (Reuters) Processed meat once again linked to huge increases in pancreatic cancer (BBC) Depression drugs linked to falls in elderly (BBC) Sugar-slinging Paula Deen on the take from Big Pharma, pushing pills for diabetes while promoting recipes that cause it (Fox News) Frequent bone scans for osteoporosis revealed as yet another medical scam (ABC News) Cancer Cells Feed on Sugar AND Sugar Free Products Alike (Natural Society) Raining LIVE virus oral vaccines from the sky; 2 Million doses dropped from airplanes to entice 'animals' to consume (Brasscheck TV) Is Your Sleep Schedule Preventing You from Reaching Optimum Health? (Natural Society) New Research: Fluoride Linked to #1 Cause of Death (Activist Post) Zappos Says Hackers Accessed 24 Million Customers' Account Details (Forbes) Men with STDs may give off unpleasant smell; Researchers testing to see if humans could use sense of smell to choose a healthy mate (NY Daily News) Menu prices expected to rise in 2012 due to higher food costs (aka greed and corruption) (NY Daily News) More News... Also on NaturalNews: • Health Ranger Videos • Activist music • CounterThink Cartoons • Food documentaries • FREE Special Reports • Podcasts Advertise with NaturalNews... Support NaturalNews Sponsors: Advertise with NaturalNews... Most Popular Stories Collecting rainwater now illegal in many states as Big Government claims ownership over our water Share FDA finally admits chicken meat contains cancer-causing arsenic (but keep eating it, yo!) Share Senate Bill S 510 Food Safety Modernization Act vote imminent: Would outlaw gardening and saving seeds Share Anti-foaming agent found in Chicken McNuggets Share Court rules organic farmers can sue conventional, GMO farmers whose pesticides 'trespass' and contaminate their fields Share R.I.P. Bill of Rights 1789 - 2011 Share Why McDonald's Happy Meal hamburgers won't decompose - the real story behind the story Share Federal agents raid Mormon food storage facility, demand list of customers storing emergency food Share H1N1 vaccine linked to 700 percent increase in miscarriages Share 14 signs that the collapse of our modern world has already begun Share Artificial Sweetener Disease; a new breed of sickness Share Forensic evidence emerges that European e.coli superbug was bioengineered to produce human fatalities Share The NaturalNews Store Huge discounts on supplements, raw foods, botanicals and healthly
personal
care
products. Save up to 50%! Click here to see the current sale items Health
Ranger Storable Organics GMO-free, chemical-free foods and superfoods for long-term storage and preparedness.
Bulk pricing! Shipping immediately. See selection at www.StorableOrganics.com 25 Amazing Facts About Food This FREE downloadable report unveils a collection of astonishing and little-known
facts
about the food we eat very day. Click here to read it now... Resveratrol
and its Effects on Human Health and Longevity - Myth or Miracle. Unlock the secrets of cellular health with the "miracle" nutrient
Resveratrol Click here to read it now... Nutrition
Can Save America FREE online report shows how we can save America through a nutrition health care
revolution. "Eating healthy is patriotic!" Click here to read it now... The
Healing Power of Sunlight and Vitamin D In this exclusive interview, Dr. Michael Holick reveals fascinating facts on
how vitamin D is created and used in the human body to ward off chronic diseases
like cancer, osteoporosis, mental disorders and more. Click here to read it now... Vaccines:
Get the Full Story The International Medical Council on Vaccination has released, exclusively through
NaturalNews.com, a groundbreaking document containing the signatures of physicians,
brain surgeons and professors, all of which have signed on to a document stating
that vaccines pose a significant risk of harm to the health of children. Click here to read it now... This
site is part of the Natural News Network © 2011 All Rights
Reserved. Privacy | Terms All
content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free
Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written
by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational
and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional
advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or
misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to
these terms and those published here . All trademarks,
registered trademarks and servicemarks mentione