Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aloe Vera - Legendary Healer. Herbal Encyclopedia. Guide to
herbs and herbal remedies Aloe Vera - Legendary Healer This copyrighted article was first published in The Chamomile Times November 2000. Aloe Vera is well-known for its ability to help burns heal. But that isn't 
    all this remarkable plant can do! There 
are hundreds of species of Aloe found all over the world, but not all are used 
in herbal healing. In fact, most should not be used at all, as some are quite 
toxic to humans. The most common Aloe species used for healing is A.vera Barbadensis , 
and this article will concentrate on the uses of that plant. History shows that Aloe was used by Cleopatra as a cosmetic aid for her skin, 
  which was said to be of legendary beauty. This places the plant in use at least 
  as early as 1500 BC. Arab traders spread it far and wide around the 6th century, 
  trading it as far as Asia. It is said that Alexander the Great conquered areas 
  where the plant grew so that he could use the medicine for his soldiers, other 
  reports state that he kept one particular island for growing aloe for his soldiers. 
  Mention of this remarkable plant is made in 12th century German medical records 
  as well as in the Compendium of Materia Medica to the Chinese Ming dynasty. 
  The Greek physician Dioscorides wrote of using it externally for treating wounds 
  of all sorts. Columbus carried it on board his ships during his ocean voyages. 
  Everywhere it has been used, it has become a very important part of healing. Medicinal Uses of Aloe Vera The gel of the inner part of an aloe leaf is used to treat 
burns, skin rashes (including poison oak and ivy), acne, insect bites, ringworm, 
bedsores, herpes simplex, and painful shingles, as well as chafed nipples from 
breastfeeding, when applied to the affected area externally. If used for this 
purpose, please remember to cleanse the area of aloe prior to the baby nursing, 
as the aloe if ingested by infants can cause diarrhea and/or serious intestinal 
cramping. Internally it can be used to keep the bowels functioning smoothly, 
or when there is an impaction, although it can cause intestinal cramping when 
taken internally, and there are other herbs that do this job better. It is not 
recommended as a general laxative. There is a mixture commercially available that 
is a combination of various Aloe species that is then concentrated after blending. 
It is called Aloin, and is used as a laxative. I would not recommend it for general 
daily use, or the body may become dependent. Using aloe internally is not always 
a good choice for those with IBS, colitis, or ulcers, as it can irritate these 
conditions from its strong actions, so do seek guidance from a health care professional 
to determine if aloe is right for your specific case. People without these kinds 
of problems usually tolerate aloe internally without a problem. Aloe has also 
been used internally to treat mouth sores and for thrush (candidiasis). It 
aids in healing wounds by drawing out infection, and preventing infection from 
starting. It has been shown to promote wound healing by increasing the availability 
of oxygen to the wound as well as increasing the strength of the collagen needed 
to rebuild the damaged tissues. The gel dries into a sort of "bandage" that aids 
in healing open wounds. This also makes it a good treatment for eczema, psoriasis, 
and other such skin problems. Aloe has been used to treat radiation burns 
and acid burns as well as frostbite. In cases of sunburn or frostbite, you can 
add one or two cups of fresh aloe juice to a tub of lukewarm water. Soak, and 
then reapply aloe gel to the affected areas after the bath. For those little kitchen 
mishaps, you can cut off a small piece of a leaf and apply the fresh gel directly 
to the burn or cut. The plant will heal itself by sealing off the cut. Another 
useful remedy is to peel the outer leaves off the inner gelatinous parts, and 
place in a blender with 500 milligrams of vitamin C per cup of gel. Mix well, 
then store in the refrigerator. This salve is very soothing to mild burns. Serious 
burns and deep wounds may require other treatments first, and then aloe applications, 
so you should check with a health care professional in these cases. A newly 
discovered compound in aloe, acemannan , is currently being studied for 
its ability to strengthen the body's natural resistance. Studies have shown acemannan 
boosts T-lymphocyte cells that aid the immune system. There are various studies 
being conducted at this time involving HIV and AIDS internal treatment with aloe. 
This is not a treatment that should be attempted without professional guidance 
at this time, however. Aloe should not be used internally by pregnant women 
as it can cause cramping that will bring on uterine contractions. For this reason 
it should not be used during the menstrual cycle, either. It should never be used 
internally by those who have difficulty with intestinal cramping. Avoid its internal 
use for children under the age of 12. Aloe is found in thousands of commercial 
products for hair, skin, and overall beauty for people and animals. Americans 
have typically been taught to use it only externally, while the rest of the world 
uses it for a wide range of treatments, including skin cancers, eye inflammations, 
hemorrhoids, gall bladder problems, ulcers, abscesses, and many other uses. Check 
with your health care professional to see if this herb is right for you. Aloe's actions are purgative, laxative, immune-enhancing, mucilaginous, bitter, 
  vulnerary, demulcent, emollient, emmenagogue, and astringent. Spiritual Uses of Aloe Vera Growing an aloe vera plant in the kitchen is said to help 
prevent burns and mishaps while cooking. It is also believed to help to prevent 
accidents in the home, bring good luck to the home, and guard against evil. It 
is used in healing rituals, services, and spells all over the world. It is reported to have been used to embalm the body of Christ. In Africa the 
  aloe is hung over houses and doors to drive away negative forces and draw luck 
  to the home. In some parts of old Mexico, large wreaths made of whole garlic 
  bulbs strung on wire are decorated with pictures of saints, sprigs of healing 
  herbs, clumps of freshly-cut aloe, and other such items, and then hung in the 
  home for protection, luck, and prosperity. Growing Aloe Vera This plant is originally native to Africa. Those living in the deep South, 
  such as in southern Texas or southern Florida and other warm, arid regions in 
  the world, can grow aloe outdoors. For the rest of the world, growing indoors 
  in pots is preferred and simple. Remember that Aloe is a succulent, not a cactus, 
  so it needs regular watering to keep the leaves fleshy and juicy, but do not 
  over water. It prefers bright light to grow properly, and really appreciates 
  a sandy, well-drained soil. Bibliography The 
Herbal Encyclopedia - A Practical Guide to the Many Uses of Herbs by Rev. Dr. 
Lisa Waltz, ND, DD - available in electronic form from EarthNow.org. Herbs 
of the Bible - 2000 Years of Plant Medicine by James A. Duke, PhD. Herbs That 
Heal by Michael A. Weiner, PhD and Janet A. Weiner Herbally Yours by Penny 
C. Royal The Healing Herbs by Michael Castleman The Encyclopedia of Medicinal 
Plants by Andrew Chevallier The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Natural Remedies 
by C. Norman Shealy, MD, PhD Cunningham's Encyclopedia of Magical Herbs by 
Scott Cunningham Heinerman's Encyclopedia of Healing Herbs and Spices by John 
Heinerman Information within this article is for informational and educational 
purposes only, and is not meant to diagnose nor treat. Seek guidance from a health 
care professional. Blessings and good health! Article Copyright 2000-2002 
by Rev. Dr. Lisa Waltz, ND, DD, CNC Return to Articles index page Return to Herbal Index Page Return 
to Herbal Encyclopedia main page These web site links are listed as a convenience to our visitors. If you use these links, we take no responsibility and give no guarantees, warranties or representations, implied or otherwise, for the content or accuracy of these third-party sites. Home: