
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 15:59:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Linux/SUSE)
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 01 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 15:59:25 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close

Pneumonia: Most patients receive treatment for double the recommended time | EU Affairs Respiratory World Wide Login to my ers ABOUT US Who we are Leadership Directory Executive Office Contact ERS FUNDING Fellowships Professorships Awards Grants Sponsorships Task Forces PUBLICATIONS European Respiratory Journal European Respiratory Review Monograph Breathe Guidelines White Books ERS Handbook Air Quality & Health ERS Roadmap Buyers' Guide CONGRESS Vienna 2012 Amsterdam 2011 Barcelona 2010 Vienna 2009 Previous EDUCATION Courses E-Learning HERMES Projects HERMES Exams EU Projects At Congress Case-based learning CME online ASSEMBLIES Clinical Respiratory Intensive Care Cell and Molecular Biology Clinical Physiology and Integrative Biology Inflammatory Airway Diseases and Clinical Allergy Occupation and Epidemiology Paediatrics Thoracic Surgery and Transplantation Allied Respiratory Professionals Respiratory Infections Thoracic Oncology Assembly LINKS Year of the lung EBAP TB Pan Net EvA FERS GRACE You are here : ERS News Pneumonia: Most patients receive treatment for double the recommended time Pneumonia: Most patients receive treatment for double the recommended time MILAN/LOUISVILLE  – Patients hospitalised with community-acquired pneumonia receive antibiotics for too long. Moreover, the decision to keep patients on an average of 11 days of antibiotics seems unrelated to either the severity of their infection or the individual response to therapy, a study recently published in the European Respiratory Journal finds. “Recent guidelines suggest that duration of antibiotic therapy for hospitalized patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) can be reduced by individualising treatment based on a patient's clinical response,” write  Dr Ramirez of the Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Louisville, USA,  and colleagues of the University of Milan, Italy. They sought out to identify the implementation rates of these clinical guidelines. For this purpose, they analysed the total duration of therapy in patients hospitalised with CAP from the Community-Acquired Pneumonia Organization database and evaluated cases with respect to the severity of the disease taking into account severity scores, clinical and laboratory characteristics on admission, and time to clinical stability (TCS). Among the 2,003 patients enrolled, mean duration of total antibiotic therapy was 11 days. Neither one of the two widely used scoring systems for assessing pneumonia severity, the pneumonia severity index (PSI) nor the CRB-65 scores (Confusion, Respiratory Rate, Blood pressure, age over 65) were related to total duration of therapy. Only with regard to duration of intravenous therapy, physicians seemed to take the time to clinical stability into consideration. However, TCS was not related to duration of either oral or total antibiotic therapy. Recently, two recommendations regarding duration of therapy have been formulated based on patient characteristics. The first recommendation is based on the severity of the disease on admission, and foresees a longer duration of antibiotic therapy in cases of severe CAP. The second recommendation is based on the clinical response to therapy, and allows for a shorter duration of antibiotic therapy for patients with an early clinical response and demands a longer duration of therapy for those with a delayed clinical response.Treatment is not individualized yet. “Our data indicate that a 10–14 day regimen of antibiotics is the most commonly prescribed duration of therapy in hospitalised patients with CAP. We were unable to find any relationship between total duration of therapy and severity of disease on admission or time to clinical response. Our data suggest that physicians have not embraced the recent recommendations to individualise duration of therapy based on patient characteristics.” In the study, duration of therapy was not influenced by either the severity of disease at the time of hospitalisation nor by the clinical response to therapy. Furthermore, “Our data suggest that when determining the appropriate duration of therapy, physicians do not consider patient severity on admission. Indeed, we found that duration of therapy was the same regardless of the severity of CAP, as evaluated by two severity scores, PSI and CRB-65, as well as the presence of clinical signs such as altered mental status, hypotension or abnormal gas exchange on admission.” “On the basis of current recommendations, approximately half of the patients with CAP should be treated for a total duration of 5–6 days”, the authors stress. “The delay in discontinuing antibiotics could have important consequences for both patients and the healthcare system, including the increase in microbial resistances, severe side-effects and costs.” Reference: Aliberti S, et al. Eur. Resp. Journal 2010 Jul;36(1):128-34. Join ERS Options, fees, entitlements European Respiratory society 4, Ave Sainte-Luce CH-1003 Lausanne Switzerland Tel :  +41 21 213 01 01 Fax : +41 21 213 01 00 enquiry@ersnet.org © European 