<< Main Menu About us The College News Events People Facilities Library Accreditation Our Courses Course Browser Online Learning Studying Online Mission Online vs On Campus Study Subjects Available Online Life of an Online Student Are you ready? Technology Required Online Learning Login Acupuncture Homeopathy Massage Therapy Musculoskeletal Therapy Naturopathy Nutritional Medicine Western Herbal Medicine Short Courses Future Students Why Endeavour Future Students Study Modes Fees and Payment Options Services and Support International Students Welcome Admission Requirements How to apply International Courses & Fees Visa Requirements Student Services Education Agents Campuses Where to study Brisbane Gold Coast Melbourne Adelaide Perth Sydney Clinic Services Services Clinic Features Naturopathy Homeopathy Acupuncture Remedial Therapies Swedish Massage Musculoskeletal Therapy Reflexology Mind Body Medicine Aromatherapy Careers Work @ Endeavour Acupuncture The ancient practice of acupuncture is a modality integrated with Traditional Chinese Herbal Medicine. The basis of Chinese philosophy and acupuncture theory is holistic, and acknowledges the existence of a primary motivating force behind all life and the relationship between the individual and the environment. The acupuncturist aims to restore the harmonious flow of energy by influencing the acupuncture points with needles, lasers, or finger pressure on points (acupressure). The channels of energy (meridians) flow through the body, forming a complex network. Traditional Chinese Herbal Medicine, usually practiced alongside acupuncture, uses Chinese herbs and therapeutic food to stimulate and strengthen the body's natural healing mechanisms and restore balance. Acupuncture at Endeavour Acupuncture plays a vital role in integrative healthcare. It can be used on its own to treat both chronic and acute conditions or in conjunction with conventional therapies. It is a safe, gentle and efficient medicine that treats on a holistic level. People of all ages come to our clinic with a large range of needs from boosting their overall health with preventative measures, to the treatment of specific health problems. Treatable Disorders using Acupuncture, Massage and Herbs Since at least 200 BC, the application and effects of acupuncture and herbs have been documented. It is only recently, however, that Oriental medicine has been systematically explored using the scientific method. Chinese and Western scientists have proven that acupuncture does indeed increase levels of endogenous morphine-like substances. Clinical studies of acupuncture in the treatment of a wide range of illnesses have led to acupuncture's acceptance beyond pain control. The following is a summary of the World Health Organization's now famous list of diseases that lend themselves to treatment by acupuncture. The inclusion of herbal remedies in a scope of practice may broaden the range of disorders that may be successfully treated: Cardiovascular Disorders Neurological Disorders Headache and migraine Peripheral neuropathies Disc problems Musculo-skeletal Disorders including muscle pain, swelling, stiffness and weakness, localized traumatic injuries, sprains, strains, tendonitis, contractures Arthritis Fibromyalgia Work and sports related injuries Low back pain Sciatica Respiratory System Disorders including acute sinusitis, common cold, tonsillitis, bronchitis asthma Disorders of the Eye, Ear, Nose & Mouth including conjunctivitis, toothaches, post extraction pain and gingivitis Gastrointestinal Disorders including irritable bowel and colitis, constipation, diarrhoea Gynecological Disorders including PMS, dysmenorrhea, menopause Depression & Anxiety Insomnia Withdrawal from street and pharmacological drugs Appetite suppression Chinese Medicine Terminology To help educate the public and our patients, we've included a list of some of the most common terms used in Chinese medical care. Meridians The Chinese have identified a system through which energy flows in the body. Energy or "qi" flows through meridians in much the same way that blood flows through vessels. Acupuncture point A point on the meridian that has a specific effect on the energy of the meridian or organ system. Organs You will often hear acupuncturists refer to a Liver, Heart, Spleen, Lung, Kidney or other organ imbalance. These terms refer to the energetic as well as physical organ systems. For example, when acupuncturists say there is an imbalance in the Liver, they may be referring to a liver disease, an emotional imbalance, or even an eye problem. Ask you acupuncturist to clarify these terms as they relate to your condition. Five Elements or Phases A theory describing the interaction of energetic and physical systems in nature and in the body in term of the balance between wood, fire, earth, metal and water. Moxibustion The warming of acupuncture points. Cupping The use of suction to increase circulation in an affected area. Electro-stimulation The use of low voltage electricity to stimulate acupuncture needles and/or points. What should I expect during my first visit? All new patients in Endeavour College of Natural Health Teaching Clinic are asked to complete a patient information form and health history. This questionnaire will include questions about your medical history, your family's medical history, and your lifestyle. It is a good idea to bring with you any copies of previous tests, lab results and any medications or supplements you are currently taking. The physical exam can include taking vital signs as well as detailed examination of the pulse and tongue, abdominal palpation and facial diagnosis. When your practitioner arrives at a working diagnosis, they will place you in a comfortable position to insert the needles. After the needles are inserted, you will relax in the treatment room for 10 to 30 minutes. Your practitioner will then return and take out the needles. After the treatment is over, Chinese herbs (in pill form) may be prescribed to you by clinical supervisor who is also registered as Chinese herbalists. Each case is treated with strict patient confidentiality and anonymity. Public Clinics Brisbane (07) 3253 9500 Gold Coast (07) 5571 1186 Melbourne (03) 9662 4856 Perth (08) 9225 2907 Adelaide (08) 7201 4102 CNB Clinic (07) 3253 9577 Contact the Endeavour Public Clinic nearest you to make an appointment. DOWNLOAD THE NATURAL HEALTH TREATMENT MENU Clinic Treatment Menus Adelaide Brisbane Gold Coast Melbourne Perth Policies & Procedures Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Sitemap Provide Feedback Adelaide Brisbane Gold Coast Melbourne Perth Sydney © Endeavour College of Natural Health 2011 Registered Training Organisation #31489 CRICOS Provider # VIC 01534F | WA 02492C | QLD 00231G | NSW 03132G | SA 03150F Australian College