
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 14:32:46 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.11
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Effective Treatments For Back Pain internetmarketpro Directory /   Article Details Navigation Home Submit Link Latest Links Latest Articles Top Hits Contact Us Search Partner Links submitedge.com Articles Effective Treatments For Back Pain Date Added: March 29, 2012 04:46:11 AM Back pain can be a real bother especially when they start interfering  with your daily activities. The pain also causes a lot of discomfort and  interferes with your sleep at night. It can afflict the whole back or  certain sections. Back pain is mainly associated with certain diseases  and underlying medical conditions related to the spine. It can also be  caused by fatigue and muscle spasms. If you find yourself suffering from  back problem, there are several treatment options you can take to get  relief. Before you settle for any particular form of treatment, you  should get proper diagnosis of the problem from a medical expert. The main forms of back pain treatments are generally categorized into  three broad categories: physical therapy, medication and surgery.  Physical therapy and exercise are very good treatments for back pain as  long as the exercise is not overdone. There are professional physical  therapists who can help you with this form of treatment. Back problems  that arise as a result of standing for too long can be relieved with  flexion exercises while pain from sitting for too long is relieved by  doing extension exercises. Stretching exercises are generally excellent  forms of treatment for back problems. The use of medication as back pain treatments involves two groups of  medication. The anti-inflammatory medications help in reducing and  controlling inflammation and thus reduce pain. Another group of  medications used are the muscle relaxants which are commonly prescribed  for patients experiencing lower back pain. If you suffer from back  spasms then this is excellent medication for you. The muscle relaxants  have a sedative effect on the user and must therefore be taken with a  lot of care. You can only use these medications after being treated by a  neurosurgeon who will then prescribe them for you and give you the  necessary guidance on how to use them. For persistent back pain that is not relieved by physical therapy or  medication, neurosurgery is the option that is left. Only a few people  reach this far and the surgery is usually used in cases of spinal  stenosis, herniated inter-vertebral discs or tumors pressing on the  spinal structures. Those with serious disc damage may require disc  replacement if the pain problem is to go away completely. Any form of  surgical treatment must be recommended and approved by a qualified  neurosurgeon after fully examining the patient and going through their  medical history. There are special medical centers that deal with spinal injuries and  back problems in general and you can go to one so that you get  specialized treatment for your back problem. These spinal injury centers  have expert neurosurgeons who will be able to diagnose your problem and  give you the most appropriate form of back pain treatments that will  help you. People with concerns about the use of surgery as a form of  treatment should rest easy as these centers use minimally invasive  surgical techniques. Therefore if you start experiencing persistent back  problem, you should see a neurosurgeon early enough so that you can be  helped. Eddie Lopez is the author of this article on back  surgeons Clearwater . Find more information on