
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Apr 2012 18:27:25 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.2
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 05 Apr 2012 18:27:25 GMT
Connection: close

Ginkgo Biloba Capsules 2000 mg Hilde Hemmes' Herbals Healthcare Naturally About Us Products Biotta Juices Books Detox Programs Hair Care Herbal Capsules Herbal Creams Herbal Extracts Herbal Teas Medicinal Wines Miscellaneous Organic Foods Slimming Programs Health Conditions Where To Buy Find a Store Contact Us Memory / Concentration Ginkgo Biloba Capsules 7500 mg Ginkgo Biloba Capsules 2000 mg Siberian Ginseng Capsules 3000 mg Information Ask Hilde? Search This Website Login Login Ginkgo Biloba Capsules 2000 mg As mental cognitive functions in adults tend to decline with  age, absentmindedness, poor concentration and mental loss is often  associated with age-related degeneration. Restricted circulation to  extremities such as hands and feet is also a common complaint. The ginkgo biloba is one of the world's oldest trees and is a good  example of a herbal medicine that must be carefully extracted and  concentrated in order to obtain the desired therapeutic benefit. It is  one of the most extensive, clinically-studied herbs investigating  disorders of the elderly. Medicinal Use Ginkgo biloba temporarily alleviates pain when walking (due to poor  blood circulation) and is an ideal tonic for the elderly as it can help  them to think clearly. Taken regularly, ginkgo helps improve  short-term memory loss and brain function such as concentration,  learning, mental alertness and behaviour. It reduces the risk of mental  loss associated with ageing and aids in the management of tinnitus and  dizziness. Clinical trials have shown ginkgo improves mental cognition. Active Ingredients Each capsule contains standardised extract equivalent to dried Ginkgo biloba leaf 2 g (2000 mg) equivalent to ginkgo flavonglycosides 10.7 mg equivalent to ginkgolides & bilobalide 2.7 mg. Features / Benefits Listed with the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) as a herbal medicine. Contains appropriate information based on latest findings. Easy-to-swallow capsule with no unpleasant taste. Contains no artificial colours, preservatives, caffeine, gluten, sugars or lactose. Capsule shell made from vegetable origin - suitable for vegans and vegetarians. Standardised to guarantee potency. Dosage Adults and children over 12 years only: take one capsule three times daily. Pack Size & RRP 60 capsules - AUD$26.90 Precautions Use only as directed. If symptoms persist, consult your healthcare practitioner. Duration of use For best results take for 6 weeks. There are no restrictions on duration of use. Link1 | Link2 | Link3 Copyright © 2011. 