
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 04:23:28 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sun, 06 May 2012 04:23:28 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Ulcerative Colitis Diet Plan Welcome Natural Health Shop Stretching & Foam Rolling Holistic Audio Programs Home Receive Updates Via Health Concerns Health Warnings Natural Health Solutions Healthy Eating Resources Emotional Health and Well-Being Personal and Environmental Wellness Children's Health Issues Healthy Pregnancy Stretching and Foam Rolling Natural Health Care Easy Healthy Recipes Healthy Beverages Healthy Desserts Healthy Dressings Healthy Meals Healthy Salads Healthy Soups Full Body Cleanse Recipes Videos Music & Singing for Health Must-See Videos Dr. Ben Kim's Radio Show Ulcerative Colitis Diet Plan Posted By Dr. Ben Kim Natural Health Solutions As a follow up to part one of this series on a natural treatment program for ulcerative colitis and other symptoms of chronic gastrointestinal distress , this article provides a specific dietary plan that many people with ulcerative colitis and other types of inflammatory bowel disease can benefit from. The following dietary plan is appropriate for people with ulcerative colitis who are not in the midst of a flare-up: Breakfast Choices 1. Fruit smoothie made with bananas, blueberries, and enough water to get it going. 2. Bowl of porridge made with white rice (2 cups of water for 1 cup of rice), a small handful of raisins (cooked for at least 5 minutes), and a sprinkle of cinnamon and 1 teaspoon of raw or unpasteurized honey. 3. Green smoothie made with 2-3 peaches, 2 tablespoons of blueberries or blackberries, 2 big handfuls of spinach, and enough water to blend everything together. 4. Power Smoothie . Note: if you are taking food powders like a super green food formula or acerola cherry powder, you can mix them in with any of these smoothies. On days when you don't make a smoothie, you can take these food powders with water. Lunch Choices 1. Steamed sweet potato, avocado, and one or two soft boiled eggs. 2. Steamed zucchini, avocado, and a potato-based soup.  Please see our archive of healthy soup recipes for several potato-based soup ideas. 3. White rice (1.5 cups of water for 1 cup of rice), steamed cabbage, and hummus . 4. Quinoa (2 cups of water for 1 cup of quinoa), avocado, and steamed butternut or acorn squash. Dinner Choices - I recommend taking one teaspoon of cod liver oil per 50 pounds of body weight right before or with dinner. 1. White rice (1.5 cups of water for 1 cup of rice) with chickpeas and avocado, dressed with extra virgin olive oil and fresh lemon juice, to taste. 2. Avocado-orange salad with raw or steamed wild salmon. 3. Quinoa (2 cups of water for 1 cup of quiona) with mashed garlic sweet potatoes and avocado. 4. Steamed zucchini, steamed carrots, steamed red beets, and sardines. Note: If you are not taking a green food powder that contains friendly bacteria sometime during the day, I recommend taking another high quality source of friendly bacteria with or right after dinner - Synbiotic Plus and Dr. Ohhira's professional grade probiotic are two that I can vouch for. If you prefer not to take a probiotic supplement, you can add a traditionally fermented food to your dinner meal, such as kim chi or sauerkraut. Snacks 1. Any fresh fruit in season. 2. Baked potatoes, sweet potatoes, or chestnuts. 3. Small handful of raw walnuts that have been soaked for at least two hours. 4. Any of the smoothies listed under breakfast choices. If you are in the midst of a flare-up, you can follow the same general guidelines listed above, but you should lean towards eating the food choices that are cooked rather than those that are raw. Please observe how your body reacts to each of your food choices and make adjustments accordingly. Be sure to chew all of your foods well and to follow other principles of eating for optimal digestion . Other Recommendations: 1. Whenever possible, allow your skin to be exposed to sunlight. Just be sure not to get burned. 2. Breathe deeply from your abdomen at least once every five minutes for every hour that you are awake. Doing so will help keep your parasympathetic nervous system active and your sympathetic nervous system subdued, which is important for promoting a healthy digestive tract. 3. Consider spending at least fifteen minutes each day writing any and all thoughts that come to mind in a private journal. Don't censor yourself, and be sure that no one else can see it. Write down all thoughts that pop up in your head, no matter now loony or evil they seem. This exercise can help increase your awareness of emotional stressors that may not be obvious at first thought. 4. If life circumstances allow, do something that you really enjoy every day. Think of an activity that is fun for you and make time for it. 5. Each day upon awakening and before you go to sleep, spend a few minutes thinking about: Loved ones who deeply care about your well-being. Family and friends who you are exceedingly fond of. Things that you are grateful for. I hope that these guidelines prove to be useful. In case you missed it, please feel free to review part one of this look at addressing inflammatory bowel disease here: A Natural Treatment Program For Ulcerative Colitis To receive newly published articles and recipes like this one, stay in touch with us via Article Tools Email Print Comment Alter Text Size Please Rate This Select rating Cancel rating Not useful Fair Good Quite good Extremely useful Your rating: None Average: 4.8 ( 69 votes) Most E-mailed Why Drinking Too Much Water Is Dangerous What Most Doctors Won't Tell You About Cholesterol What Most Doctors Won't Tell You About Colds and Flus How to Have Healthy Bowel Movements Public Exposure: DNA, Democracy and the Wireless Revolution - A Must-See Documentary on the Dangers of Cell Phone Use Highest Rated Brain Tumors Linked to Frequent X-Rays 4.962965 How to Make Healthy and Beautiful Smoothies 4.882355 The Best Approach to Treating Any Health Condition 4.836 Powerful Things to Say to Your Kids 4.767125 When to Seek Medical Attention for a Head Injury 4.758125 Related Posts A natural treatment program for ulcerative colitis and other symptoms of chronic gastrointestinal distress Power Smoothie Healthy soup recipes Hummus Cod liver oil Great Submitted by Anonymous on September 17, 2009 - 07:14. I saw an aritcle written by Dr. Kim and thought 'I just have to have this newsletter' and I'm glad I signed up.  Some of the advise that he gives for the natural treatments I already do but just to have it reiterated to me as well as the information is great.  Dr. Kim has really blessed me, because I know as a Christian you are supposed to take care of your body and not abuse it.  What better way to take care of it than the natural way. This article was very informative and helpful.  God bless you Dr.Kim, I pray the word gets out on your articles because they are really good. » reply Natural Treatments Submitted by Chadd Bell on January 21, 2012 - 14:57. Dr. Kim, Your posts are motivating and very informative. I appreciate your advice on balancing both Mind & Body. I highly recommend reading them because they encourage you to be more conscious of healthy living. All the best to you! » reply Thought of the Moment The love we give away is the only love we keep. - Elbert Hubbard Previous Thoughts... Stay in Touch via Facebook New Natural Health Resources Most Popular Natural Health Tools Recent comments Not all cow-food is human-food You're making an assumption that cows are grazed on arable land (i.e. land that can grow crops that... Jeff Baitis commented on: More Thoughts on Earthlings Documentary, Including Potential Problems with a Strict Vegan Diet rice eaten directly from Thai rice fields is white color I have lived in Thailand for over 15 years in a variety of setting. Currently I live outside Udon... Richard Luke Estes commented on: Why Do Asians Eat Mainly White Rice? Where's your bag? I think this is an excellent article and am glad to finally read someone else's experiences (... Anonymous commented on: Where's My Bag? duration of rest thank you for writing about this. i have tennis elbow and have to treat myself vs see a physician.... monica commented on: How to Treat Elbow Tendonitis (Tennis Elbow or Golfer's Elbow) Good article. I am so grateful that you are giving us the gen on head injuries, Dr. Kim. I didn't know anything... Henriette commented on: When to Seek Medical Attention for a Head Injury Receive Updates Plus Occasional Shockers Dr. Ben Kim's Newsletter To receive free tips on how to experience your best health, I invite you to join our natural health community by subscribing to my free e-newsletter: Email: Your e-mail address is kept private and you can unsubscribe anytime. More Natural Health Resources Specialty Formulas Proteolytic Enzymes Synbiotic Plus - Intestinal Yeast Cleansing Formula Professional Grade Nutritional Supplements Comprehensive Multi Homocysteine Care Dr. Ohhira's Probiotics 12 Plus Professional Line Vitamin D-3 Whole Food Vitamin C Premium CoQ10 Whole Food Multi for Kids Professional Grade Target Formulas Adrenal Refresh Bone Support Prostate Support Quercetin Vision Support Joint Support Raw Organic Superfood Powders Dr. Ben Kim's Greens Dr. Ben Kim's Greens in Capsules Vitamin C Powder - Acerola Cherry Powder 5 Super Greens Chocolate Powder Holistic Audio Programs Your Best Weight and Health EarthRain:  Drop Into Deep Relaxation Soft Ocean Dreamland:  A Groundbreaking Natural Sleep Aid Inner Focus:  For Optimal Mental Focus Premium Coconut Products Premium Virgin Coconut Oil Premium Coconut Milk Powder Raw Organic Coconut Butter Top Grade Dried Coconut Raw Organic Protein Powders Hemp Protein Powder Hemp, Cacao & Maca Blend Organically Grown Whole Foods Authentic Tibetan Goji Berries Raw Chocolate Nibs and Powder Raw Organic Cashews Premium Turkish Mulberries Truly Raw Honey Natural Personal Care Products Pure Aloe Vera Gel Natural Sunscreen Lotion Natural Anti-Bug Spray Dr. Ohhira's Probiotic Soap Tooth Soap:  An All-Natural Tooth and Gum Cleaner Organic Moisturizing Lotion for Combination or Oily Skin Organic Mediterranean Face Wash Organic Moisturizing Lotion for Extra Dry Skin Natural Health Tools Foam Roller (Premium EVA, 18" by 6") Stretching and Foam Rolling DVD Champion Juicer L'EQUIP XL Pulp Ejector Juicer Vita-Mix Blender TheraCane Self Massaging Tool Laidback Laptop Table Carlson Products Carlson Cod Liver Oil Gel Capsules Carlson Elite Omega-3 Gems Carlson Vitamin D Drops 1000 IU Carlson Cod Liver Oil Carlson Fish Oil Books & Special Reports Experience Your Best Health Maximize Your Height Eight Essential Strategies for Academic Success Fundamentals of Getting Healthy Naturally Ten Main Causes of Disease and Dysfunction How to Keep Your Colon Clean and Healthy Full Body Cleanse Guide to Using Whole Food Vitamins and Minerals to Support Your Health The Truth About Alkalizing Your Blood Artisana Organic Butters Cashini (Peanut Butter Alternative) Macadamia Cashew Butter Organic Almond Butter Organic Cashew Butter Organic Pecan Butter Organic Tahini Organic Walnut Butter Terms of Use Recommended Health Tools Contact Operation Shanti Stretching & Foam Rolling Archive The contents of this website are the opinions of Dr. Ben Kim unless otherwise noted. The information on this website is not intended as personalized medical advice and is not intended to replace the relationship that you have with your primary care provider. Any decisions you make with regard to your daily choices and medical treatments shoul