Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Anxiety, Depression, Eating Disorders, Counseling, Hypnotherapy | About Us 109 La Grange Avenue Suite 102 La Plata, Maryland (click to see map) Phone: (240) 253-7051 Home Counseling services Eating Disorders Eating Disorder Therapy Emotional Eating Group Marriage Counseling Therapy for Anxiety Therapy for Depression Therapy for ADHD Hypnosis & Hypnotherapy For anxiety, weight loss & pain To quit smoking FAQ About Us Office Photos Forms for first visit Family & Marital Brochure About Olimpia Etts, LCSW-C About Michael Etts, LGSW Terms of use Other Personal Growth Sites Articles Hypnotherapy facts Self Esteem Singles On being single Relationships Communication Boundaries A visual guide to boundaries A life changing diagnosis Self-help Resources 12 step groups Sailing through the holidays Back To School Tips Newsletter Archives Growth after trauma Trauma & revenge Early childhood & trauma Stress after a trauma Anxiety & Panic Overcoming Anxiety & Panic 1 Overcoming Anxiety & Panic 2 Suggested reading Blog Call us for an informal chat. Phone: (240) 253-7051 Email: Why is this so hard? About Olimpia Etts, LCSW-C, ACH Who I am My name is Olimpia Etts, MSW, LCSW-C, ACH.  I am a Licensed Clinical Social Worker in the State of Maryland and Advanced Certified Hypnotherapist providing psychological counseling to individuals, couples and groups.  I specialize in working with clients who have disordered eating patterns, and facilitate support groups for individuals who are interested in exploring their relationship with food or have undergone weight loss surgery. Types of counseling services include: Depression Anxiety Grief and Loss Sexual Abuse Self-injury (cutting) Addiction Disordered Eating Post Traumatic Stress Women's Issues LGBT Loss of Pet (Bereavement) Stress Management Hypnotherapy Relocation Issues How I work I follow a two step approach: First, to address the thinking that causes you to feel or act a certain way (depressed, overeat, angry). Second, to address and facilitate healing of underlying emotions or beliefs (e.g. worthlessness, grief, shame, etc.). In a safe environment, you can explore current or past issues as well as develop and practice new coping strategies that are life-enhancing. Olimpia Etts, MSW, LCSW, ACH has offices in La Plata, which is located in Charles County (Southern Maryland). Adaptive Therapy provides family, marital & individual counseling, as well as hypnotherapy for stress, anxiety, weight loss and smoking cessation in the Charles County, Maryland (MD) area. Counseling services are provided in our offices located in La Plata , MD (this is in the southern part of Charles County). La Plata is nearby to the communities of Port Tobacco, White Plains, Hughesville, Pomfret, Marbury, Waldorf, Bel Alton, Dentsville, Faulkner, Chaptico, Grayton and Masons (zip codes 20646, 20602, 20695, 20611, 20677, 20637, 20622, 20617, 20693, 20601, 20603, 22485, 20662). | Home | About us | Couples communication | Interpersonal boundaries | A visual guide to interpersonal boundaries | | Self Help | 12 Step Groups | Coping with a life changing injury or diagnosis | | Self esteem quiz, raising self esteem | Frequently asked questions | Trauma newsletter archives | | Emotional Eating Group | Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy | Hypnosis to quit smoking | | Therapy for Anxiety | Therapy for Depression | Therapy for ADHD | | Recommended reading | Blog | Eating Disorder Therapy | About Michael Etts, LGSW | About Olimpia Etts, LCSW-C | Copyright © 2007-2012 Adaptive Therapy, all rights reserved DISCLAIMER: This website is meant to be a positive affirmation of human potential and as a way to communicate 
		the philosophical perspective of Adaptive Therapy™. It is in no way a substitute for 
		in-person psychological evaluation or advice and does not constitute the practice of any type of mental 
		health counseling (psychiatry, psychology, social work, etc.). Please read Terms of Use for details. PRIVACY STATEMENT: Your personal information will never be shared or sold to any outside party. Quiz results are tabulated locally and are not stored after you leave this site. Some images from Free-StockPhotos.com * Counseling services provided under the supervision of an LCSW Unless otherwise noted, all content on this site is authored by Michael Etts, LGSW, ACH or Olimpia Etts, LCSW-C, ACH Adaptive Therapy 109 LaGrange Avenue, Suite 102 P.O. Box 24 La Plata, Maryla