
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 13:42:22 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: d7754f597c8352027816edb389e2d592
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 13:42:23 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Relieve Your Back Pain In Your Own Way Back Pain Details Your guide to Back Pain Relief! Back Pain Relief Guide Sitemap Contact Us Menu Causes Of Back Pain Back Pain Myths And Facts Back Pain Diagnosis And Symptoms Back Pain Treatment Back Pain Prognosis Low back Pain Low Back Pain Relief Living With Back Pain Articles Back Pain Myths Back Pain Surgery Backpain Overview Causes Of Back Pain Diagnosis Of Back Pain Living With Back Pain Lower Back Pain Prevention and Treatment Prognosis of Back Pain Symptoms Of Back Pain Treatment of Back Pain Upper Back Pain Popular Articles Chronic Back Pain Between Shoulder Blades My Lower Back Pain Back and Stomach Pain Back Pain: A Common Problem Chronic Back Pain Are You Living With Pain In The Back, Foot And Ankle? Axial Back Pain Athletes May Suffer From Low Back Pain Back and Neck Pain Constant Back Pain Search Relieve Your Back Pain In Your Own Way Hamstring Stretching Exercise for Back Pain It seems  that hamstring is somewhat related to most cases of back pains. During  cases of back pains, the hamstring becomes less elastic and more rigid,  causing more stress and strain to the lower back muscles. Therefore it  is really a good idea to go out running once in a while. Benefits you  can get while doing a good 15 minute run are so countless. But in cases that you cannot afford to run, doing a hamstring stretching exercise for back pain is optional. This stretching exercise  for back pain is designed to apply pressure on lengthening the  hamstring. This exercise should take at least 30 – 45 seconds and should  be done in two sets for each day. During the regimen, avoid stretching  too fast. If you cannot reach the intended spot, slowly stretch until  you reach your limit. Avoid stretch bouncing as this can cause muscles  tearing. By the way, we call this hamstring stretching exercise  for back pain, though this is simply the most common bending exercise.  We call it this way so that we have the general idea on what it’s  supposed to do. While standing, simply bend forward, with legs  relatively straight. Then try to touch your toes and hold the position  for 30 – 45 seconds. There are some others who do this easy, so instead  of just reaching your toes, bend over until you can completely embrace  your knees. Trunk Rotation Exercise for Back Pain Back muscle  strength and flexibility always let you avoid back pain since they are  essential in maintaining the neutral spine position. That’s why  exercises for back pain always target these muscle groups. The trunk  rotation exercise is designed to strengthen the hip muscles and promotes  flexibility of the spine. To start, prepare a length of pole 2  meters long (or as long or loner than your arms’ width). Prepare  something that’s smooth and round and a bit heavy. Ideally, a heavy  piece of wooden pole should be used. Sling it over your shoulders and  arms and the nape of your neck. Now, stand up straight and slowly swing  the pole left and right in a circular motion. Do not over extend your  swing as this can cause herniated disc. Do for about 3 minutes and you  will start to feel the effects the trunk rotation has on your hips and  back muscles. Related Articles The Herbs And Vitamins For Carpal Tunnel... Use A Good Back Pain Treatment... Marinol And Chronic Back Pain... Go For A Chiropractic Back Pain Treatment... Is It Time To Seek A Doctor?... Treatments For your Lower Back Muscle Pain... Perform Exercises For Your Back Pain... Get A Comfortable Chair For Your Back Pain... Get Back Pain Relief... What Are The Treatments For Lower Back Pain?... Is Aspirin The Right Solution For Back Pain?... Do You Suffer From Back Pain In The Lower Right Si... Foot Swelling – A Symptom of Herniated Disc... How To Relieve Yourself From Back Pain?... Medications For Your Back Pain... There Are Two Kinds Of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Surg... Exercises For Your Lower Back Pain... The Varied Kinds Of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Treatme... Carpal Tunnel Massage For Your Back Pain... Well, Back Pain Management Is A Key To Back Pain R... Latest Articles Do Regular Exercise To Cure Back Pain A Visit To The Spa Can Help You Combat Back Pain Basics Of Back Pain Before You Get A Back Massage Avoid Back Pain When Gardening Fifteen Remedies For Back Pain Relieve Back Pain Through Reflexology How To Avoid back pain while cycling? What Is Discogenic Back Pain? Back Stretches For Pain Relief Copyright © 2006 - 2012 Back Pa