Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 18:52:28 GMT
X-Varnish: 1475472398
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
X-Cache: MISS

Education Resource Center: Nontraditional Treatments to Treat Eczema | National Eczema Association Skip directly to content Search form Search Living With Eczema Eczema Quick Fact Sheet All About Atopic Dermatitis Bathing & Moisturizing Atopic Dermatitis in Children Infant and Toddler Eczema Hand Eczema Topical Corticosteroids Eczema from a Child's Point of View Can Psychodermatology Help Your Eczema? Smallpox Vaccine Todo Acerca De Dermatitis Atópica Education Resource Center Education Resource Center  Overview Skin Care Eczema Basic Information Eczema Is Common Who Gets Eczema Symptoms of Eczema Triggers of Eczema What Causes Eczema Glossary of Terms Eczema Treatment Information Options For Treatment What Do People Use to Treat Their Eczema? First Steps In Treating Eczema Using Prescription Creams and Ointments Using Topical Prescription Steroids Topical, Prescription, Steroid-Free Options for Eczema Nontraditional Treatments to Treat Eczema Treating Refractory or Severe Eczema Best Treatment Plan For Me or My Child? Reference Library Starting From Scratch Video Browse Site for "Living With Eczema" Related Items Support Support Network Ask the Doctor Scratch Pad Eczema: Tools for School Patient Conference/Kids Camp Itching for a Cure Life Improvements for Eczema Health Professionals – Order Brochures Browse Site for "Support" Related Items Research NEA Research Program Clinical Research Trials Research Updates Browse Site for "Research" Related Items About NEA About NEA/Mission Statement About NEA Promo Video Board of Directors NEA Scientific Advisory Committee NEA Alliance Partners Annual Reports NEA 990 Forms Contact Us Browse Site for "About" Related Items Get Involved Ways to Give Ways of Giving - Gifts of Cash Ways of Giving - Planned Giving Ways of Giving - Stock and Securities Ways of Giving - Employer Matching Gift Programs Ways of Giving - Leave NEA in Your Will Awareness Action & Advocacy Browse Site for "Get Involved" Related Items Seal of Acceptance NEA Seal of Acceptance Criteria Product Directory Personal Care Household Products Fabrics Disclaimer Benefits to Consumers Benefits to Manufacturers NEA Seal of Acceptance: Application Process EASE Program Overview You are here Home » Living With Eczema » Education Resource Center » Eczema Treatment Information Browse This Site By Category By Glossary Take Action Special Events Articles/Research Can Psychodermatology Help Your Eczema? Anti-Inflammatory Therapy and Handling Infections Alternative Medicine and Eczema Vitamin D:  hype or healer? Free e-Book on Mind/Body Solutions for Skin Issues Ask the Doctor/Experts Seborrheic Dermatitis? What else should I do for 7-month old Baby? Coconut Oil? Bleach Baths for Babys? Spring Cleaning and Allergies:  Alternatives to Chemical Cleaning Products Pages 1 2 next › last » Scratch Pad Good Results with Multivitamins Corn Allergy Triggers Socks Help Child to Seal In Moisture Switching to Petroleum Jelly after Pump Lotion Does the Trick A Combination of Things Helped Me Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 next › last » Education Resource Center: Nontraditional Treatments to Treat Eczema Many people have tried some type of alternative medication to treat their eczema. These treatments may provide some relief, but their safety and efficacy have not been well tested, and they have not have been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It is important for you to tell your doctor if you are taking any of these nontraditional remedies. And it is especially important for your doctor to know if you are taking any of these nontraditional remedies while you are taking any kind of medicine. People sometimes try these remedies if they are frustrated with their other treatments. Here is a list of things people frequently try: Licorice Guava St. John's Wort Herbal Remedies: Licorice (used as a topical gel) Guava leaves (used as a tea) Chinese herbal teas St. John's wort (used as a lotion or tea) Probiotics: taken by mouth, they help "good" bacteria to grow in the intestines, which is thought to help relieve inflammation. Homeopathic Remedies: based on the idea of treating diseases with substances that cause similar symptoms. Examples include arsenicum album (arsenic oxide) and calcarea carbonica (ground oyster shell). Hypnosis Acupuncture Gamma linoleic acid oils Evening Primrose oil Borage oil Treating Refractory or Severe Eczema >>> Rate this item: Select rating Give it 1/5 Give it 2/5 Give it 3/5 Give it 4/5 Give it 5/5 No votes yet Learn more about: Alternatives Treatment © 2012 National Eczema Association. All rights reserved Contac