<http://www.ehealthlines.com/?p=367>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Circumcised men have lowers risk of HIV and HPV: studies explained | eHealthLines - Latest Health News & Health Articles eHealthLines – Latest Health News & Health Articles Your ultimate guide to health and related stuff. Circumcised men have lowers risk of HIV and HPV: studies explained Three newly conducted studies strengthen the evidence that a minor procedure of circumcision protects men against deadly AIDS virus and the sexually t... Three newly conducted studies strengthen the evidence that a minor procedure of circumcision protects men against deadly AIDS virus and the sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical cancer in women. Dr. Bertran Auvert and his colleagues examined more than 1,200 men visiting a clinic in South Africa. They found that, less than 15 percent of circumcised males and 22 percent of uncircumcised men were infected and the carrier of HPV, which is the main cause of cervical cancer and genital warts in females. “These studies explain, why the women with circumcised sex partners are at a reduced risk of cervical cancer than the women with the uncircumcised,” researchers said. The circumcised men have half of the chances to have HPV than uncircumcised men, after few adjustments for other differences between the two divided groups, According to the second report. In third report, Lee and colleagues, in Baltimore, tested African-American men and they came to know that just 10 percent circumcised have the high risk of HIV infection, compared to 22 percent of uncircumcised. “Circumcision was linked with significantly reduced HIV risk in patients with known HIV exposure, suggesting that results of other studies demonstrating reduced HIV risk for circumcision among heterosexual men likely can be generalized to the U.S. context,” they wrote. But they found that the American Academy of Pediatrics is not recommending regular circumcision for newborns. “As a result of this decision, health insurance program for poor and disables (Medicaid) does not cover circumcision costs, and this is mainly prejudicial for poor African American and Hispanic boys who, may face high HIV exposure risk in their adulthood,” Gray and colleagues wrote. Smart Treats ! More : Circumcision Provides Protection Against STDs HRT reduces risk of colorectal cancer Migraines may indicate lower risk of developing breast cancer Women often delay seeking care for stroke symptoms Unsafe sex: Women may have a higher HIV risk Tags: AIDS , cervical cancer , circumcision protects men , heterosexual men , hiv infection , hpv , sex partners More in Sexual Health Secitions Addiction Allergy and Infection Anxiety and Depression Bacteria Brain Cancer Children Health Dentistry Depression Diabetes Digestion Drug Food and Fitness Health care Health Insurance Health News Hearing Loss Heart Pregnancy Psychology Sexual Health Skin Smoking Surgery Uncategorized Vitamins Health Med Latest Making Life Better with Incontinence Products Protein Supplements for Teenagers Healthy Growth Exercise Tips for Women on the Go Healthy Eating and Omega 3 Healthy Weight Loss with Alli Diet Treating Habitual Pains with Orthopedic Pillow The Ill Effects of CT Scans Revive Energy Mints Causes of Obesity in Children The Best of ECG Equipments Negative Effects Of Steroids Hormonal Drugs Known to Help Prostate Cancer Portal Wellness Pages Privacy Policy Sitemap Medical eHealth Medical Palliative Care Hospice Care Mucinous Cancer Testicle Cancer Treatment Copyright © 2012 eHealthLines – Latest Health News & Health Articles .  All Rights 