
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Wed, 09 May 2012 09:15:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

The Benefits of Cranberry Juice HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Nutrition » Antioxidants » The Benefits of Cranberry Juice 64 rate or flag By dippykitty Drinking cranberry juice can have several health benefits. It is believed to be useful in the treatment of cystitis and Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Drinking two glasses of cranberry juice per day can have a positive effect. Making Your Urine More Acidic This can help to decrease the chances of developing kidney stones and bladder stones. You will often need to drink significant amounts of cranberry juice to do this effectively, as most cartons of cranberry juice do not contain a high enough concentration of the juice. Ideally, cranberry juice should contain a concentration of no less than fifty per cent, but it is common for the concentration to be far less than this. The alternative option is to drink large amounts of cranberry juice that has a less strong concentration. Preventing Urinary Tract Infections Another benefit of drinking cranberry juice is its ability to stop bacteria from attaching itself to the walls of the bladder. This can reduce the likelihood of developing a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI). In this way, it can prevent the development of urinary infections . On a similar note, cranberry juice is thought to be able to have the same effect on the bacteria that can cause dental erosion and stomach ulcers. Vitamin C Cranberry juice is a good source of vitamin C and also contains antioxidants . Lowering Blood Pressure Cranberry juice has been shown to reduce the risk of heart disease if it is drunk on a regular basis. Research has indicated that drinking three glasses of cranberry juice per day can increase levels of "good" cholestorol by as much as ten per cent. Overall, the chances of developing heart disease can drop by forty per cent. Drinking two glasses of cranberry juice on a daily basis can go a long way towards helping to prevent urinary infections. If a urinary infection does occur, cranberry juice can relieve the burning and stinging sensations that are common symptoms of the infection by making your urine more acidic. vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Comments Loading... Go to last comment Hello, hello, 2 years ago Thank you for a very informative hub. I certainly will start drinking cranberry juice. Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 87 dippykitty From UK 46 Followers 102 Hubs Joined 4 years ago Read more Hubs by dippykitty Contact dippykitty Related Hubs Cranberry and Urinary Tract Infection by Bebegaia How to Cure a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Naturally by Entourage_007 Best Home Remedy For Bladder Infection by Gorgeously URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS by advisor4qb Fight Urinary Tract Infection With Hibiscus & Cranberry! by Madam Aphrodite CRANBERRIES - TREATMENT FOR URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS by BEAUTYBABE Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. te