Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Sun, 22 May 2011 11:28:29 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "9cfa965f7318cc1:2edc"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 16:44:35 GMT
Connection: close

Eczema natural treatment, herbs, supplements, vitamins by Ray Sahelian, M.D. Eczema 
treatment, natural with nutritional supplements by Ray 
Sahelian, M.D. Eczema is a skin disorder with 
inflammation of the upper layers of the skin that results in rashes, 
dryness, itching, flaking, even blistering and bleeding. This 
rash-like inflammation that causes itchy, red skin, can be treated 
with antihistamines, oral and topical steroids and over-the-counter 
products along with natural herbs and supplements. Children with this allergic skin condition are at increased risk of developing asthma 
well into adulthood. Reducing eczema severity Apply lotion immediately after getting out of the shower to keep your skin 
well-moisturized. Don't take very long baths or showers, and avoid using very hot water 
since it can dry skin and increase itchiness. Avoid using harsh soaps or detergents that can irritate the skin. Try to avoid becoming overheated or very sweaty. Keep skin well covered during winter. Try not to wear itchy fabrics made of wool or some synthetic fibers. Child and mother's diet What a woman eats during pregnancy may influence the odds that her child 
will develop an allergy. Dr. Joachim Heinrich, of GSF-Institute of 
Epidemiology, Neuherberg, Germany evaluated the associations between 
maternal diet during the last 4 weeks of pregnancy and allergy and eczema 
in offspring at age 2 years. They analyzed data from 2,641 children. 
Overall, 17 percent of all children had doctor-diagnosed eczema at age 2. 
Positive associations were observed between high maternal intakes of 
margarine and vegetable oils during the last 4 weeks of pregnancy and 
eczema during the first 2 years in the offspring. On the other hand, 
eating a lot of fish late in pregnancy seemed to offer some protection 
against eczema in offspring. Maternal diet during pregnancy in relation to eczema and allergic 
sensitization in the offspring at 2 y of age. Am J Clin Nutr. 2007. GSF-National Research Center for 
Environment and Health, Institute of Epidemiology, Neuherberg, Germany and 
Faculty of Medicine, Environmental Hygiene and Environmental Medicine, 
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. Maternal diet during pregnancy might be one of the factors that influences 
fetal immune responses associated with childhood allergy. We analyzed the 
association between maternal diet during the last 4 wk of pregnancy and 
allergic sensitization and eczema in the offspring at 2 y of age.  We 
suggest that the intake of allergenic foods and foods rich in n-6 
polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy may increase and foods rich 
in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids may decrease the risk of allergic 
diseases in the offspring. Eating lots of vegetables and fruits during pregnancy decreases the risk 
of having a baby with certain allergies. Greater intake of green and 
yellow vegetables, citrus fruit, and veggies and fruits (generally those 
colored red and orange) may lessen the chance of having a baby with 
eczema (itchy, dry, red patched skin). Allergy, online January 22, 2010. Feeding babies as little as one portion of fish before they are nine 
months old reduces their risk of developing eczema. It may be worth 
feeding children more fish or adding fish oils to their diet. Breast milk Infants who consume breast milk for four months or longer after birth have a 
reduced risk of being plagued by the dry skin or itchy rash characteristic of 
eczema by the time they are 4 years old. Various researchers have reported 
positive benefits of exclusive breastfeeding, including its association with a 
reduced asthma risk. Breast-feeding should be recommended as one possible way to 
reduce the risk of onset of eczema and asthma. For many reasons breastfeeding is 
the optimal way to feed the child with human milk. Journal of Allergy 
and Clinical Immunology, September 2005. Food 
allergy There is a possibility that in some cases allergies to food could cause or aggravate this skin condition. For instance some children 
could have an allergy to cow's milk. Eczema and prebiotics Infant 
formula containing a mixture of prebiotic oligosaccharides -- compounds that promote the growth of beneficial 
bacteria in the intestines -- may protect against the development of 
eczema or dermatitis in babies at high risk for allergic skin conditions. 
The research was conducted by Dr. Guenther Boehm from Numico Research 
Germany, Friedrichsdorf. Human breast milk contains natural prebiotics 
that promote the development of a healthy immune system, which can help 
prevent allergies. Boehm's team developed an infant formula based on the 
prebiotic content of human breast milk and tested its ability to reduce 
the incidence of eczema or skin allergy in a group of newborns whose 
mothers were unable to start or continue breastfeeding. These infants were 
at high risk for skin allergy because they had a parent with the 
condition. A total of 102 infants were fed a prebiotic -enriched infant 
formula and 104 were fed a normal formula. The children were seen on a 
monthly basis until the age of 6 months. Only 10 infants fed the prebiotic 
formula had signs of eczema after six months, compared with 24 infants fed 
the normal formula. Tests on stool samples from 98 infants showed that the 
prebiotic group had significantly higher levels of the beneficial gut 
microbes bifidobacteria compared to the other group. Prebiotics can 
favorably affect development of the immune system of infants by altering 
the bacteria in the bowel and in so doing reduce the chances of eczema 
developing in at-risk infants. Archives of Disease in Childhood July 2006. Probiotics may benefit Probiotics have 
been suggested to be useful in children with atopic eczema-dermatitis 
syndrome. Oral supplementation with 
the probiotic Lactobacillus reuteri to the mother during pregnancy and to the infant 
after birth may help reduce the development of eczema and allergy 
associated with immunoglobulin E, a key protein involved in the allergic 
response. Dr. Thomas R. Abrahamsson of Linkoping University Hospital 
enrolled families with a history of allergic disease. Expectant mothers 
were randomly assigned to receive Lactobacillus reuteri in an oil 
suspension or a placebo treatment, each day from week 36 until delivery. 
Their babies continued with the same formulation from birth until 12 
months of age and were followed up for another year. A total of 188 
completed the study. At 2 years, the incidence of eczema was 36 percent in 
the active treatment group and 34 percent in the placebo group. However, 
during the second year, only 8 percent of the Lactobacillus reuteri group 
had IgE-associated eczema compared with 20 percent of the placebo group. 
Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, May 2007. The number 
of children suffering from atopic eczema has increased over the past 30 
years especially in children between the ages of 2 and 5 years. These is 
a significant group of eczematous children that are resistant to 
standard therapy. Babies and children with eczema suffer pain, 
irritation and disfigurement from the dermatitis. In this study, we have 
followed 14 cases of pediatric patients (ages of 8 months to 64 months) 
with a history of resistant eczema for a period of at least six months. 
All of these children received 300 mg to 500 mg standardized 
Lactobacillus rhamnosus cell lysate daily as an immunobiotic supplement. 
The results of this open label non-randomized clinical observation 
showed a substantial improvement in quality of life, skin symptoms and 
day- and nighttime irritation scores in children with the 
supplementation of Lactobacillus rhamnosus lysate. There were no 
intolerance or adverse reactions observed in these children. 
Lactobacillus rhamnosus cell lysate may thus be used as a safe and 
effective immunobiotic for the treatment and prevention of childhood 
eczema and possible other types of atopy (allergic diseases). Inflamm 
Allergy Drug Targets. 2010 Jul. Lactobacillus rhamnosus cell lysate in 
the management of resistant childhood atopic eczema. Hoang BX, Shaw G, 
Pham P, Levine SA. Allergy Research Group, Inc., Alameda, CA 94502, USA. Treating pregnant mothers, and then their infants, with select strains 
of probiotics may help prevent eczema in children with a family history 
of allergies, particularly during the first 3 months of life. 
Researchers gave more than 150 pregnant women with a family history of 
allergic diseases either a mixture of three probiotic bacteria or a 
placebo during the last six weeks of pregnancy. They also gave the same 
treatment to the women's children for 12 months. During the first 3 
months of life, the parents of six in 50 of the subjects who received 
probiotics reported eczema in their children, compared to 15 or 52 of 
the placebo group. Although the rate of eczema in the two groups became 
more similar, there was still some benefit after for up to two years. 
One of the paper's 9 authors is employed by Winclove Bio Industries B.V., 
Amsterdam, which manufactures the probiotic supplements used in the 
study. Allergy 2009. Chinese herbs for eczema treatment Doctors at the Chinese University of Hong Kong recruited 85 
children suffering from eczema; 42 of them were given capsules containing 
extracts of five herbs twice daily for 12 weeks, while the remaining 43 
children were given placebos. By the end of three months, the conditions 
of the children who were given the herbs improved and their use of 
corticosteroid creams and ointments was reduced by one third. The five 
herbs used in the eczema treatment were Flos lonicerae (Jinyinhua), Herba 
menthae (Bohe), Cortex moutan (Danpi), Rhizoma atractylodis (Cangzhu) and 
Cortex phellodendri (Huangbai). Eczema symptoms Here are common symptoms of eczema, although other skin diseases 
can show similar symptoms: Skin rash with excessive itching. Blisters that are red, inflamed and oozing. Skin that is dry and leathery. Skin that is raw from excessive scratching. Atopic excema cause Atopic eczema or dermatitis can result from a number of factors, or 
combination of factors, including immunologic background, genetics, skin 
barrier dysfunction, IgE receptors, and triggers (including allergens, 
microorganisms, and autoantigens). An outbreak of eczema can be triggered by weather, stress or use of 
certain products, including detergents. It is possible that maternal diet 
in the years before pregnancy may influence the occurrence of eczema in 
the child. Divorce and stress make eczema worse Young children whose parents are divorced may be more likely than other children 
to develop eczema. The stress of divorce may affect children's immune system in 
a way that promotes atopic eczema, in which an abnormal immune reaction 
periodically causes patches of skin to become inflamed, red and intensely itchy. Treatment for atopic eczema Treatment modalities with topical treatment (emollients, topical 
corticosteroids, topical calcineurin inhibitors, wet wrap therapy, and topical 
antimicrobial therapy), systemic management (antimicrobials, systemic 
corticosteroids, cyclosporine A, azathioprine, antihistamines), and 
phototherapy. Drugs and prescription meds The eczema cream Elidel, made by Novartis, cleared the 
skin condition from the faces of patients allergic to or intolerant of steroids, 
the conventional treatment.
According to a statement issued by Novartis, 46 percent of patients treated 
with Elidel after six weeks were clear or almost clear of facial eczema compared 
to 16 percent of the group treated with an inactive placebo. However, see the 
caution regarding Elidel. Eczema 
cream side effects, 
safety, risk, danger, toxicity The European Medicines Agency said in 2006 that two prescription 
creams used to treat eczema could still be used but "with greater caution." 
Apparently there has been some reports that these eczema creams may increase 
skin cancer and lymphoma risks. The eczema creams are Novartis AG's Elidel and 
Astellas Pharma Inc's Protopic. Drugs 
for eczema made by Novartis AG and Astellas Pharma may increase the risk 
for cancer and infection in children. An increased risk for cancer cases 
infection have been reported in patients aged 16 and younger from 2004 
to 2008 with Novartis' Elidel and Astellas' Protopic. Both medications 
-- also known as pimecrolimus and tacrolimus respectively -- already 
carry strong warnings about cancer and infection. March 2010. Eczema biochemical understanding New experimental results on the role of T cells and 
keratinocytes have led to a better understanding of eczematous inflammation and 
can help explain both the clinical and histological pictures of eczema. Besides 
activated endothelial cells and adhesion molecules, a complex interaction of 
numerous chemokines controls the recruitment of T cells from the blood vessels 
and their migration into the dermis and epidermis. Activated T cells damage the 
epidermis by pro-inflammatory cytokines and can induce apoptosis of individual 
keratinocytes through "killer molecules". Cleavage of adhesion molecules on 
keratinocytes leads to spongiotic changes. Keratinocytes then activate repair 
mechanisms, which cause acanthosis and parakeratosis in chronic eczema. Eczema natural treatment questions I am 52 years and in the past I only had a few minor bouts with eczema, 
usually cleared up by changing soap or applying more moisturizers. But in the 
last year it has escalated to cover my back and face, with spots on my limbs and 
stomach as well. It is really becoming a problem and I can’t get a handle on it. 
The doctors just hand out steroid creams. Are there any supplements that may 
help treat eczema in a natural way? Perhaps eating more fresh vegetables, cold water fish, taking 
fish oil supplements and reducing sugar intake could help. My 18 week 
old son has always been exclusively breastfed, and now has eczema all over. 
There is a family history of hay fever. What is the likely hood that he has / 
will have a food allergy. I am starting the elimination diet but am really 
worried about starting solids with him within the next two months. I am a 
vegetarian so it has been hard to cut out foods. I just don’t know the 
likelihood that he will be allergic to foods or just be seasonally allergic. It is not possible for me to know what your baby's genetic 
makeup is in terms of current or future allergies. My 
granddaughter is three and apparently has eczema. someone mentioned 
taking omega 3 or fish oil fatty acids. If this is good what dosage. I cannot advise on the specific dosage, but it may be a good 
idea to take omega-3 fatty acids and to reduce sugar