
Obesity Search
        Knowledgebase Topic Contents Overview Health Tools Cause Health Risks of Obesity Health Benefits of Weight Loss Exams and Tests Treatment Overview Weight-Loss Strategies and Programs Medications Surgery Other Places To Get Help References Credits Waist Measurement Obesity Overview What is obesity? Being obese means having so much
			 body fat that your health is in danger. Having too much body fat can lead to type 2 diabetes , heart disease , high blood pressure , arthritis , sleep apnea , and stroke . Because of these risks, it is
			 important to lose weight even if you don't feel bad now. It is hard to change
			 eating habits and exercise habits. But you can do it if you make a plan. How do you know if you are obese? You can use a
			 measurement called a body mass index, or BMI, along with your waist size , to decide whether your weight is
			 dangerous to your health. The BMI is a combination of your height and weight.
			 If you have a BMI of 30 or higher, your extra weight is putting your health in
			 danger. Use the Interactive Tool: Is Your BMI Increasing Your Health Risks? to check
			 your body mass index . Use the Interactive Tool: What Is Your Child's BMI? to check BMI in children ages 2 to 19. People who
			 carry too much fat around the middle, rather than around the hips, are more
			 likely to have health problems. In women, a
			 waist size of 35 in. (88 cm) or more raises the chance for disease. In men, a waist size of 40 in. (101 cm) or more raises
			 the chance for disease. 1 If you are Asian , your health may be at risk with a BMI of 27.5 or
			 higher. Also,  health
			 problems are seen with a smaller waist size. In Asian women, a waist size of 32 in. (80 cm) or more raises
			 the chance for disease. In Asian men, a waist size of 36 in. (90 cm) or more raises
			 the chance for disease. 2 Check this table to find your risk for disease using your body mass index and waist size . What causes obesity? When you take in more
			 calories than you burn off, you gain weight. How you eat, how active you are,
			 and other things affect how your body uses calories and whether you gain
			 weight. If your family members are obese, you may have inherited
			 a tendency to gain weight. And your family also helps form your eating and
			 lifestyle habits, which can lead to obesity. Also, our busy lives
			 make it harder to plan and cook healthy meals. For many of us, it's easier to
			 reach for prepared foods, go out to eat, or go to the drive-through. But these
			 foods are often high in fat and calories. Portions are often too large. Work
			 schedules, long commutes, and other commitments also cut into the time we have
			 for physical activity. You've tried diets, but you always gain the weight back. What can you do? Focus on health, not diets. Diets are hard to stay on and usually don't work in the long run. It is very
			 hard to stay with a diet that includes lots of big changes in your eating
			 habits. Instead of a diet, focus on lifestyle changes that will
			 improve your health and achieve the right balance of energy and calories. To
			 lose weight, you need to burn more calories than you take in. You can do it by
			 eating healthy foods in reasonable amounts and becoming more active. And you
			 need to do it every day. Little steps mean a lot. Losing just
			 10% of your body weight can make a
			 difference in your health. 1 Make a plan for change. Work with your doctor to create a plan that will work for you.
			 Ask family members and friends for help in keeping with your plan. Ask your
			 doctor to recommend a dietitian to help you with meal planning. When you stray from your plan, don't get upset. Figure out what got you
			 off track and how you can fix it. How can you stay on your plan for change? It's
			 hard to change habits. You have to be ready. Make sure this is the right time
			 for you. Are you ready to make a plan and stay on it? Do you have the support
			 of your family and friends? Do you know what your first steps will be? Becoming
			 healthier and staying that way is a lifelong effort. Most people
			 have more success when they make small changes, one step at a time. For
			 example, you might eat an extra piece of fruit, walk 10 minutes more, or add
			 more vegetables to your meals. Studies show that people who keep
			 track of what they eat are better at losing weight. Keep a notebook where you
			 can write down everything you eat and drink each day. You may be surprised to
			 see how much you are eating. Use a calorie counter to add up your calories.
			 (You can find calorie counters online and at bookstores.) As you
			 keep track of calories, look at whether you skip meals, when you eat, how often
			 you eat out, and how many fruits and vegetables you eat. This will help you see
			 patterns that you may want to change. You may want to write down
			 the amount of physical activity you've had each day and compare the calories
			 you burned to those you took in. Use the Interactive Tool: How Many Calories Did You Burn? to see how many
			 calories you burn through daily activities. Can you take medicines or have surgery to lose weight? Surgery
			 and medicines don't work by themselves. Most people also need to make changes
			 in what they eat and how active they are. Before your doctor will
			 prescribe medicines or surgery, he or she will probably want you to work on
			 healthier eating and activity for at least 6 months. Even if your doctor gives you
			 medicines or recommends surgery, you will need to keep your new healthy habits
			 for the rest of your life. Frequently Asked Questions Learning about obesity: What is obesity? What causes it? How common is it? Can a test tell me if my weight or my child’s weight is unhealthy? How can I help my overweight child? Being diagnosed: How will my doctor diagnose obesity? How can I find out my BMI? Getting treatment: What is the treatment for obesity? Will I need any medicines? Should I treat obesity with medicines? Should I treat obesity with surgery? Ongoing concerns: What problems can obesity cause? How can I get support for changing my eating habits? Living with obesity: How many calories do I burn during exercise? Health Tools Health Tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve your health. Decision Points focus on key medical care decisions that are important to many health problems. Obesity: Should I Have Weight-Loss Surgery? Obesity: Should I Take Weight-Loss Medicine? Obesity: Should I Use a Diet Plan to Lose Weight? Actionsets are designed to help people take an active role in managing a health condition. Fitness: Using a Pedometer or Step Counter Healthy Eating: Changing Your Eating Habits Healthy Eating: Cutting Unhealthy Fats From Your Diet Healthy Eating: Getting Support When Changing Your Eating Habits Healthy Eating: Recognizing Your Hunger Signals Interactive tools are designed to help people determine health risks, ideal weight, target heart rate, and more. Interactive Tool: How Many Calories Did You Burn? Interactive Tool: Is Your BMI Increasing Your Health Risks? Interactive Tool: What Is Your Child's BMI? Cause Obesity is a
		  complex disease for which no single cause or cure exists. You gain weight when
		  you take in more calories than you burn off. But obesity is influenced by many
		  other factors, including: Your emotions and  habits . Overeating  is easy in
		  our culture today. Many factors  influence eating behavior , including emotions, habits , and the availability of food. Your lifestyle . Modern conveniences—such as elevators,
		  cars, and the remote control for the television—cut activity out of our lives. Your genes . If one of your parents is
		  obese, you are 3 times as likely to be obese as someone with parents of healthy
		  weight. 3 Your friends and family . 
		   If they eat a lot of
		  high-fat or snack foods, eat at irregular times, and skip meals, you probably
		  will too. And if they are not physically active, you may not be either. Other things influence your weight and whether you are physically active,
		  including: Low self-esteem. Being
			 overweight or obese may lower your self-esteem and lead to eating as a way to comfort
			 yourself. Repeated failure at dieting also can affect your self-esteem and make
			 it even harder to lose weight. Emotional concerns. Emotional stress , anxiety , or illnesses such as depression or chronic pain can lead to overeating.
			 Some people eat to calm themselves, to avoid dealing with unpleasant tasks or
			 situations, or to dampen negative emotions. Trauma. Distressing events—such as childhood sexual,
			 physical, or emotional abuse; loss of a parent during childhood; or marital or
			 family problems—can contribute to overeating. Alcohol. Alcohol (beer and mixed drinks)
			 is very high in calories. Medicines or medical conditions. Some
			 medical conditions and medicines may also cause weight gain. Examples include
			 having Cushing's syndrome or hypothyroidism or taking certain antidepressants or corticosteroids . Health Risks of Obesity How obesity affects your health depends on many things,
		  including your age, gender, where you carry your body fat, and how physically
		  active you are. Risk for diseases If you are obese and have unhealthy eating or activity habits, you have a higher risk for gallstones , type 2 diabetes , high blood pressure , high cholesterol and triglycerides , coronary artery disease (CAD) ,
			 a stroke , and sleep apnea , among other conditions. Children who are obese are at risk for many of the same long-term health problems . If you have healthier habits or lose
			 weight, your risk for these conditions is reduced. Where you carry fat If fat builds up mostly around your stomach (sometimes
			 called apple-shaped), you are at greater risk for type 2 diabetes, high blood
			 pressure,
			 high cholesterol, and coronary artery disease than
			 people who are lean or people with fat around the hips (sometimes called
			 pear-shaped).  Your waist size affects your risk of health problems. See a chart on BMI, waist size, and risk for disease . See more information on health problems related to obesity . Health Benefits of Weight Loss Research shows the
		  following health benefits for weight loss: Weight loss may improve survival in those who
			 have an obesity-related disease , especially type 2 diabetes . 3 Blood pressure decreases with weight loss. 4 People with type 2 diabetes who lost weight had
			 lower blood sugar levels and were able to use less medicine to lower their
			 blood sugar levels. 3 Sustained weight loss
			 prevented new cases of type 2 diabetes in people who were obese. 3 Weight loss makes it easier for you to breathe. 4 People
			 with obstructive sleep apnea who lost as little as 10% of their weight
			 improved their sleep patterns and had less daytime sleepiness. 3 Exams and Tests Along with a regular medical
		  checkup, you may have some tests to check on your health. Your
		  doctor may want to do blood tests to check for type 2 diabetes , thyroid or liver problems, and high cholesterol or high triglyceride levels. Your doctor
		  will check your blood pressure, ask about any medicines you are taking, and
		  discuss your medical history and your family's medical history. He or she will
		  ask how active you are, whether you drink alcohol (and how much), your history
		  of weight gain, and how often you have tried to lose weight. Knowing your waist size along with your
		  body mass index (BMI) can help your doctor check your
		  risk for
		  type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease (CAD) . Tests are available to estimate your body fat percentage (to find out about how much of your weight is fat). This is different from your BMI. With some of these tests, you may also learn your basal metabolic rate (BMR) . Knowing your BMR can help your doctor or registered dietitian plan how many calories you need each day. Early detection Doctors use BMI to help screen for unhealthy weight . If you have a BMI of 30 or higher, your extra weight is putting your health in danger. If you are Asian, your health may be at risk with a BMI of 27.5 or higher. 2 Use the Interactive Tool: Is Your BMI Increasing Your Health Risks? to find your
		  BMI. If you're concerned  about your child's weight If you have concerns that your child is overweight or at risk of becoming so, ask your doctor to review your child's growth charts and medical history with you. If your child's BMI and growth pattern suggest a weight problem, your doctor will give your child an exam to look for problems that can cause weight gain. He or she may ask questions about eating and exercise habits . Regular checkups will also be important over time. Use the Interactive Tool: What Is Your Child's BMI? to find out the BMI of your child age 2 or older. Treatment Overview Treatment for obesity will be most successful if you create a
		  long-term plan with your doctor. A reasonable goal might be to begin making
		  lifestyle changes by increasing physical activity and eating healthy foods. Your initial goal should be to improve your health, not to achieve an
		  ideal weight. Guidelines suggest
		  a goal of losing 10% of your body weight in 6 months. 1 Doctors often recommend that people make lifestyle changes for at least 6 months before trying
		  medicines or surgery. For more information, see the Medications and Surgery sections of this topic. Your doctor may also
		  suggest counseling . If you use food to cope with depression,
		  loneliness, anxiety, or boredom, you need to learn new skills to deal with
		  those feelings. Cut calories Eating fewer calories while increasing activity is the best way to lose weight. For most adults, eating 1,200 to 1,500 calories a day for
			 women and 1,500 to 1,800 calories a day for men is recommended for weight
			 loss. People often convince themselves that they don't
			 overeat. Keeping a food journal (What is a PDF document?) can help you find out how many calories you consume in a day. Then you can set a goal to cut out 500 to 1,000 calories a day. This will help you lose 1 to 2 pounds a week. 1 Limiting your calories to very low levels might seem like the way to quick weight loss , but it can have serious negative effects on your body and your ability to keep the weight off. Research shows that limiting calories—not the types of
			 foods you eat—causes more weight loss over the long term. For example, cutting only carbohydrate
			 or fat will not cause any more weight loss than a healthful and balanced
			 low-calorie diet. 3 Eat healthier foods—don't diet Rather than focusing
			 on a particular type of diet, try to eat healthier foods . Don't try to restrict
			 the foods you love. Eat less of them. Eat smaller portions. Take a look at the dietary guidelines for good health . A dietitian can show you how to make healthy changes in
			 your eating habits and help you recognize you hunger signals . For more information, see the Weight-Loss Strategies and Programs section of this topic. Increase activity Physical
			 activity helps you burn more calories.  Overall, experts recommend doing moderate or vigorous activity
			 to get and stay healthy. 5 One of the best ways to increase your
			 activity is by walking. Keep track of your steps with
			 a step counter or pedometer. If you have a desk job, you may be surprised to
			 see how little you move in a typical day.  Start with a goal of
			 increasing your steps by 2,000 steps a day and work up to 10,000 to 12,000. For
			 more information, see: Fitness: Using a Pedometer or Step Counter . To find out how many calories are burned during various
			 activities, use the Interactive Tool: How Many Calories Did You Burn? For more information on exercise and fitness, see the topic Fitness: Getting and Staying Active . Get checkups See your doctor after 6
				months to check your progress. Some people stop losing weight around this time,
				because their bodies adjust to fewer calories and their motivation starts to
				slip. At this point your doctor may want you to increase your
				activity and revisit the dietitian to make further changes to your eating habits. Your
				goals may switch from losing more weight to keeping the weight off.  Staying
				active is very important. If you have
				lost weight but gained it back, don't be discouraged. It is not uncommon to try
				several times before weight comes off and stays off. Talk to your doctor about
				starting again. It may be helpful to work with others who are trying to lose
				weight by following a structured program. When to consider medicines or surgery If you do
			 not lose weight, continue to gain weight, or have lost weight several times
			 only to regain it, or if your doctor is concerned about a related health problem , you might need to try
			 medicines or surgery. Obesity: Should I Take Weight-Loss Medicine? Obesity: Should I Have Weight-Loss Surgery? For more information, see the Medications and Surgery sections of this topic. Weight-Loss Strategies and Programs Most weight-loss programs can help you lose weight at first. But you will lose
		  more and have more health benefits if you can keep with it for a longer time.
		  You need to find the right balance of
		  eating and physical activity that you can keep doing or a program that works
		  with your lifestyle. Are you ready to make changes? Before you begin treatment,
			 decide if you are ready to make the lifestyle changes needed to lose weight.
			 Losing weight and keeping it off can be hard. Think
			 about successes that you had before and how you were able to achieve them. If you are
			 ready to make a plan for  healthier eating , your doctor may suggest losing 10% of your weight at a rate of 1 lb (0.45 kg) to 2 lb (0.9 kg) a week as your
			 first target. Research shows that a 10% weight loss can improve your
			 health. 1 It is better that you maintain a small amount
			 of loss rather than lose a lot of weight fast and gain it back. Tips to help with your weight-loss program Set realistic goals. Many people expect to
				lose much more weight than is realistic. For help defining clear, healthy goals, see these
				questions to think about when you are setting goals to manage weight . Find what
				works best for you. If you don't have time to cook and hate to prepare meals,
				a program that offers meal replacement bars or shakes may be better for you. Or
				if you like to prepare meals, finding a plan that includes daily menus and
				recipes may be best. Get family and friends involved to provide
				support. Talk to them about why you are changing your eating habits and physical
				activity and how important losing weight is to you. Identify obstacles to losing weight. Keep a food journal (What is a PDF document?) . Look at it to try to find things that cause you to overeat, such as stress or
				depression. Remove food temptations such as high-calorie snacks,
				and replace them with healthier foods such as fruit and low-fat
				yogurt. Get enough physical activity for weight loss. To find out how many calories are burned during various activities, see
				the Interactive Tool: How Many Calories Did You Burn? Tips to help change how you eat Plan your meals and snacks ahead of time . This helps you eat regular
				meals and a balanced, nutritious diet. See a meal planning form (What is a PDF document?) . Find your sources of added calories , such as snacking, drinking alcohol, or having
				soft drinks. Then reduce your intake of them. Cut fat from your diet . Use lean meats and meat alternatives . Make healthy fast-food,
				restaurant, and convenience-food choices to maintain your healthy eating when you eat out. Keep unhealthy food out of the house. Eat before
				you go grocery shopping. Tips for staying with it Research shows that people who keep track of what they eat
			 and drink each day have more success at losing weight: Keep a
			 food journal to record everything you eat and drink. Pay attention to
			 portion sizes. Use a calorie counter to check calories. You can find a
			 calorie counter at a bookstore or online (see www.caloriecontrol.org or
			 www.nutritiondata.com). Keep up with your physical activity. See: Fitness: Using a Pedometer or Step Counter . Think ahead about situations that may be
					 hard. Ask yourself if you are eating for reasons other than hunger: Have you noticed a change in your eating
					 or weight since a change occurred in your lifestyle or stress
					 level? Do you use
					 food as a reward? Do
					 you eat whatever is most available because you don't plan ahead? For more information, see the topics: Healthy Eating . Weight Management . Stress Management . Weight-loss programs Many commercial weight-loss programs (such as
		  Weight Watchers or Lifesteps) and self-help or support groups (such as
		  Overeaters Anonymous) are available. The quality and effectiveness of 
		  programs vary widely, from reputable obesity clinics associated with hospitals
		  to quick weight-loss schemes that may even harm your health with untested
		  "miracle" products. When considering a weight-loss program , ask
		  questions about the staff's qualifications and whether counseling is offered.
		  Be aware that the advertising strategies for weight-loss programs and products,
		  such as using celebrities and "before and after" pictures, are usually
		  unrealistic. Obesity: Should I Use a Diet Plan to Lose Weight? For more information on weight-loss strategies, see the topic Weight Management . Medications Most weight-loss medicines for obesity work by making you feel less hungry or making
		  you feel full sooner. They are used together with healthy eating habits and exercise. Medicine is generally used only for those who have a body mass index (BMI) of 30 or higher. But they
		  sometimes are used for those with a BMI of 27 or higher who are at risk for high blood pressure , high cholesterol , coronary artery disease , type 2 diabetes , and sleep apnea . 1 Medicine Choices Orlistat (Xenical)
				is a prescription medicine that prevents some of the fat calories you eat from
				being absorbed in your intestines. Also, orlistat (Alli) is available over the counter . Alli contains half of the medicine
				that is in Xenical. Appetite suppressants like phentermine suppress your appetite. They are approved
				only for short-term use. Phentermine is no longer
			 sold in Europe because of a possible link with heart and lung
			 problems. Prescription orlistat is the only weight-loss drug that is approved for children. It is meant to be used only in children over the age of 12. The over-the-counter form of orlistat is not meant for use by anyone under 18 years old. What to Think About Medicine does not
			 work for everyone. And medicine alone is not as effective as when combined with
			 healthy eating habits or activity. Nonprescription weight-loss products are not recommended. Some have dangerous side effects, and others have no
			 proven benefit. Obesity: Should I Take Weight-Loss Medicine? Surgery Surgery may be an option if you have a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or more.  It may also be an option if you have a BMI of 35 and another health
		  problem related to your weight, such as
		  diabetes or
		  arthritis. Use the Interactive Tool: Is Your BMI Increasing Your Health Risks? to calculate
		  your BMI. Experts are still debating whether surgery for obesity is okay for children. The goal of surgery is to cause
		  significant weight loss. This should reduce
		  obesity-related health problems, including type 2
		  diabetes and
		  high blood pressure. Surgery  can help you lose weight in a couple of ways. Restrictive operations (such as adjustable gastric band ) reduce how much food you can eat by making the stomach smaller. Malabsorptive operations (such as Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) make it harder for your body to digest and absorb food. It is important to
		  remember that you may still be obese or overweight after the surgery. Also,
		  surgery will require you to make extreme changes in how you eat, such as eating
		  only a few ounces of food at a time because the surgery creates a much smaller
		  stomach. Obesity: Should I Have Weight-Loss Surgery? Surgery choices Adjustable Gastric Band Gastric Sleeve Surgery Roux-En-Y Gastric Bypass Biliopancreatic Diversion and Biliopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal Switch Nutrition concerns After surgery, you
			 will need to learn new ways to eat. You'll need to eat very slowly and
			 chew your food well. You will not be able to drink for 30 minutes before eating, during your
			 meal, and for 30 minutes after eating. If you don't make these changes, you may vomit frequently
			 and have pain. You may also develop nutrition problems. Your doctor may recommend calcium, iron, and
			 vitamin supplements. What to think about All surgeries have risks. Discuss your treatment options
			 with your doctor to decide what is best for you. Most people who
			 have surgery to treat obesity begin to lose weight quickly. Weight loss usually
			 continues for about 2 years. Risks common to all surgeries for
			 weight loss include an infection in the incision, a leak from the stomach into
			 the abdominal cavity or where the intestine is connected (resulting in an
			 infection called peritonitis ), and a blood clot that blocks blood flow
			 in the lung ( pulmonary embolism ). Some people develop anemia or osteoporosis . It is important to
			 compare the risks of being obese with the risks of surgery. Other Places To Get Help Organizations Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
		(CDC) 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA  30333 Phone: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) TDD: 1-888-232-6348 Email: cdcinfo@cdc.gov Web Address: www.cdc.gov The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is
		  an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The CDC works
		  with state and local health officials and the public to achieve better health
		  for all people. The CDC creates the expertise, information, and tools that
		  people and communities need to protect their health—by promoting health,
		  preventing disease, injury, and disability, and being prepared for new health
		  threats. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
		(NHLBI) P.O. Box 30105 Bethesda, MD  20824-0105 Phone: (301) 592-8573 Fax: (240) 629-3246 TDD: (240) 629-3255 Email: nhlbiinfo@nhlbi.nih.gov Web Address: www.nhlbi.nih.gov The U.S. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
		  (NHLBI) information center offers information and publications about preventing
		  and treating: Diseases affecting the heart and circulation, such as heart
			 attacks, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, peripheral artery disease, and
			 heart problems present at birth (congenital heart diseases). Diseases that affect the lungs, such as asthma, chronic
			 obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), emphysema, sleep apnea, and
			 pneumonia. Diseases that affect the blood, such as anemia,
			 hemochromatosis, hemophilia, thalassemia, and von Willebrand disease. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
		Diseases (NIDDK) Building 31, Room 9A06 31 Center Drive, MSC 2560 Bethesda, MD  20892-2560 Phone: (301) 496-3583 Web Address: www.niddk.nih.gov The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
		  Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) provides information and conducts research on a wide
		  variety of diseases as well as issues such as weight control and
		  nutrition. Overeaters Anonymous (OA) P.O. Box 44020 Rio Rancho, NM  87174-4020 Phone: (505) 891-2664 (or check the White Pages for a local number) Fax: (505) 891-4320 Email: info@oa.org Web Address: www.oa.org Overeaters Anonymous (OA) is a nonprofit international organization
		  that sponsors a 12-step program to help people understand and overcome
		  compulsive eating disorders. OA is not a weight-loss program and makes no
		  claims for weight loss. The program focuses on the psychological and social
		  aspects of overeating. Weight-Control Information Network
		(WIN) 1 WIN Way Bethesda, MD  20892-3665 Phone: 1-877-946-4627 toll-free Fax: (202) 828-1028 Email: win@info.niddk.nih.gov Web Address: http://win.niddk.nih.gov/index.htm The Weight-control Information Network (WIN) is a
		  service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
		  Diseases, part of the National Institutes of Health. WIN supplies information
		  on weight control, obesity, and nutritional disorders for the public and for
		  health professionals. References Citations National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
	 Institutes of Health (2000). The Practical Guide: Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults (NIH Publication No. 00-4084). Available online:
	 http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/obesity/prctgd_c.pdf. Purnell JQ (2008). Obesity. In DC Dale,
	 DD Federman, eds., ACP Medicine , section 3, chap. 10.
	 Hamilton, ON: BC Decker. American Gastroenterological Association (2002, reapproved 2008). AGA
	 technical review on obesity. Gastroenterology , 123(3):
	 882–932. [Erratum in Gastroenterology , 123(5):
	 1752.] Klien S, Romijin JA (2008). Obesity. In HM Kroneberg
	 et al., eds., Williams Textbook of Endocrinology , 11th
	 ed, pp. 1563–1587. Philadelphia: Saunders. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (2008). 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans (ODPHP
	 Publication No. U0036). Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.
	 Available online:
	 http://www.health.gov/paguidelines/pdf/paguide.pdf. Other Works Consulted Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery (LABS) Consortium (2009). Perioperative safety in the longitudinal assessment of bariatric surgery. New England Journal of Medicine , 361(5): 445–454. American Cancer Society (2010). Cancer Prevention and Early Detection: Facts and Figures 2010 . Atlanta: American Cancer Society. Available online: http://ww2.cancer.org/downloads/STT/Cancer_Prev_and_Early_Dect_2010.pdf. American Diabetes Association (2007). Eating with type 2 diabetes. Clinical Diabetes , 25(3): 104. American Gastroenterological Association (2002, reapproved 2008). AGA
	 technical review on obesity. Gastroenterology , 123(3):
	 882–932. [Erratum in Gastroenterology , 123(5):
	 1752.] American Institute for Cancer Research (revised 2007). The new American plate for breakfast. Available online: http://www.aicr.org/site/PageServer?pagename=reduce_diet_new_american_plate_brochures. American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (2009). Updated position statement on sleeve gastrectomy as a bariatric procedure. Available online: http://www.asmbs.org/Newsite07/resources/Updated_Position_Statement_on_Sleeve_Gastrectomy.pdf. Arterburn DE, et al. (2008). Obesity in adults, search
	 date February 2007. Online version of BMJ Clinical Evidence : http://www.clinicalevidence.com. Barlow SE (2007). Expert committee recommendations regarding the prevention, assessment, and treatment of child and adolescent overweight and obesity: Summary report. Pediatrics , 120(Suppl 4): S164–S192. Brethauer SA, et al. (2009). Systematic review of sleeve gastrectomy as staging and primary bariatric procedure. Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases , 5: 469–475. Flier JS, Maratos-Flier E (2008). Biology of obesity.
	 In AS Fauci et al., eds., Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine , 17th ed., vol. 1, pp. 462–468. New York: McGraw-Hill. Heber D, et al. (2010). Endocrine and nutritional management
of the post-bariatric surgery patient:
An Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism , 95(11): 4823–4843. Available online:  http://www.endo-society.org/guidelines/final/upload/FINAL-Standalone-Post-Bariatric-Surgery-Guideline-Color.pdf. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (2008). Choosing a safe and successful weight-loss program. Available online: http://www.win.niddk.nih.gov/publications/choosing.htm. Paul IM, et al. (2009). Opportunities for the primary prevention of obesity during infancy. Advances in Pediatrics , 56: 107–133. Pories WJ (2008). Bariatric surgery: Risks and rewards. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism , 93(11, Suppl 1): S89–S96. Available online: http://jcem.endojournals.org/cgi/reprint/93/11_Supplement_1/s89.pdf. Rao G (2010). Office-based strategies for the management of obesity. American Family Physician , 81(12): 1449–1455. Tyo BM, et al. (2011). Effects of body mass index and step rate on pedometer error in a free-living environment. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 43(2): 350–356. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (2009). Bariatric Surgery for Severe Obesity (NIH Publication No. 08-4006). Available online: http://www.win.niddk.nih.gov/publications/gastric.htm. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (2003). Screening and interventions to prevent obesity in adults. Available online: http://www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/uspstf/uspsobes.htm. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (2010). Screening for obesity in children and adolescents. Available online: http://www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/uspstf/uspschobes.htm. Credits By Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer E. Gregory Thompson, MD - Internal Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer Rhonda O'Brien, MS, RD, CDE - Certified Diabetes Educator Last Revised April 13, 2011 Top of Page Next Section: Health Tools Previous Section: Overview Top of Page Next Section: Cause Previous Section: Health Tools Top of Page Next Section: Health Risks of Obesity Previous Section: Cause Top of Page Next Section: Health Benefits of Weight Loss Previous Section: Health Risks of Obesity Top of Page Next Section: Exams and Tests Previous Section: Health Benefits of Weight Loss Top of Page Next Section: Treatment Overview Previous Section: Exams and Tests Top of Page Next Section: Weight-Loss Strategies and Programs Previous Section: Treatment Overview Top of Page Next Section: Medications Previous Section: Weight-Loss Strategies and Programs Top of Page Next Section: Surgery Previous Section: Medications Top of Page Next Section: Other Places To Get Help Previous Section: Surgery Top of Page Next Section: References Previous Section: Other Places To Get Help Top of Page Next Section: Credits Previous Section: References Top of Page Last Revised: April 13, 2011 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: E. Gregory Thompson, MD - Internal Medicine & Rhonda O'Brien, MS, RD, CDE - Certified Diabetes Educator National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
	 Institutes of Health (2000). The Practical Guide: Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults (NIH Publication No. 00-4084). Available online:
	 http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/obesity/prctgd_c.pdf. Purnell JQ (2008). Obesity. In DC Dale,
	 DD Federman, eds., ACP Medicine , section 3, chap. 10.
	 Hamilton, ON: BC Decker. American Gastroenterological Association (2002, reapproved 2008). AGA
	 technical review on obesity. Gastroenterology , 123(3):
	 882–932. [Erratum in Gastroenterology , 123(5):
	 1752.] Klien S, Romijin JA (2008). Obesity. In HM Kroneberg
	 et al., eds., Williams Textbook of Endocrinology , 11th
	 ed, pp. 1563–1587. Philadelphia: Saunders. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (2008). 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans (ODPHP
	 Publication No. U0036). Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.
	 Available online:
	 http://www.health.gov/paguidelines/pdf/paguide.pdf. Print Help This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2012 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the