Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Interwood Direct - Quality Products, Best Price! $CDN US & Int'l orders Exciting News! A-Z List of All Products ... >> Ab Circle Pro >> Barefoot Science >> Carol Burnett DVD Collection >> Create-A-Card >> Duzzit Handy Hanger >> Ecomist Cleaning Products >> Genius 3-Piece Silicone Lid Set >> Genius Nicer Dicer Express >> Genius Nicer Dicer Twin >> Genius Spice Grinder >> Genius Snap N Slice >> Genius V Slicer >> GT88 Scratch Remover >> Hang 'n Hold Hanger System >> Hercules Hook >> Invisi-Lifts >> Johnny Carson Tonight DVD >> Johnny Cash King James Bible DVD >> Kymaro Curve Control Jeans >> Lauren Hutton Aqua Press Kit >> Lauren Hutton Face Disc >> Lauren Hutton Makeup Refills >> Lauren Hutton Product Line >> Load-N-Cut Weed Trimmer Head >> Magic Mitre >> Miracle Repair Cream >> Miracle Repair Cream >> Nails AR New >> NuWave Oven Pro >> No Wet Wonder Foam >> P90X >> Paint Pad Pro >> Paint Zoom >> Pancake Puffs >> Pro Seal Silicone Kit >> QFX Paint Partner >> Rio Laser Hair Removal System >> Secret Glo Self Tanning Gloves >> Shake Weight >> Salad Chef >> Slap Chop >> Slendertone Fortex >> Spin & Go Mop >> Total Body Shaper >> Total Pillow >> Tower 200 >> Twister Sweeper >> Wonder Peeler >> Your Baby Can Read >> Your Baby Can Read - Extra books, DVDs Home Beauty & Wellness Barefoot Science Invisi-lifts Kymaro Curve Control Jeans Kymaro Cami Kymaro New Body Shaper Lauren Hutton Aqua Press Lauren Hutton Face Disc Lauren Hutton Products Miracle Repair Cream Nails R New Perfect Shaper Rio Laser Hair Removal Secret Glo Self Tanning Gloves Slendertone Fortex Slendertone Refill Pads Sonic Relief Gel Fitness Ab Circle Pro® BallBike Energym 4 Life P90X Shake Weight Total Body Shaper Tower 200 Cleaning Chamease Didi Seven Ultra Didi Zap a Spot Ecomist Cleaning Products No Wet Wonder Foam Spin & Go 360 Mop Twister Sweeper Zap a Spot House & Home Carol Burnett Create-A-Card Duzzit Handy Hanger Elite Magnassager GT88 Scratch Remover Hand Grips Hang n Hold Hangers Hercules Hook Johnny Carson Tonight DVD Johnny Cash King James Bible DVD Load-N-Cut  Trimmer Head Magic Mitre Paint Pad Pro Paint Zoom Pro Seal Silicone Kit QFX Paint Partner Total Pillow Your Baby Can Read Kitchen Genius 3-Piece Silicone Lids Genius Air Genius Nicer Dicer Express Genius Nicer Dicer Twin Genius Spice Grinder Genius Snap n Slice Genius V Slicer Nuwave Oven Pro Pancake Puff Ronco Chef N Go Salad Chef Slap Chop Wonder Peeler SALE!!! View Cart Customers say ... "This is the first time I have written a Company unsolicited to advise that I am "FAN". I have RA and extreme difficulty and pain in my feet and all my life I loved walking and had to stop my long walks, until I thought I would give Barefoot a try, not expecting much as I have spent thousands of dollars on custom insoles with very limited success. I can now say uncondionally that after six months I am virtually pain free and back walking over an hour a day. Thank you again for giving me back the enjoyment I have with long walks" Ron Statham "The insoles I purchased from you are a work of wonder. I have arthritis in my right foot and the pain was almost upbearable at times. I play baseball and karate. Well, after the first day of wearing these insoles in my shoes the pain in my feet has almost gone. It took awhile to get use to the lift, but after a week I hardly notice them anymore." Larry Cook "Barefoot Science are the best arch supports I have tried. Hope they stay around forever. I have ordered them 3 times over the last 3 years. What a truly amazing product. " Jeri Have you tried this product? Related Products Slendertone Flex Have a question? Email customer service 
         or Call 1-866-584-1694 Chinese customer service 中文客户服務: 1-877-250-1665 To check the status of your order, please click here Barefoot Science Foot Strengthening System - Clinicially proven to relieve pain! Français Barefoot Science TV Offer Instructions Tips Common Foot and Gait-Related Problems Frequently Asked Questions Compare all Models Barefoot Science
                  is the only insole that strengthens and rehabilitates your feet. Reduces stress and strain on hips, knees, back and neck Relieves foot related pain and discomfort throughout the body Helps prevent risk of injury by building a stronger more flexible
                  foot Benefits anyone - from seniors to children NEW – Antifungal and anti-bacterial treated 3 payments of $29.95 or  $89.85 More info and pictures >> Limited sizes of  Barefoot Science Active or Therapeutic insoles are still available, please call 1-866-272-6507 Order now!                
                  Follow the steps below and then click 'Add to Cart' Step 1 -  Select your Size: Barefoot Science Size MEN'S SIZES WOMEN'S SIZES YOUTH SIZES X-Small 5 to 7.5 3.5 to 5.5 Small 6 to 7.5 8 to 9.5 Medium 8 to 9.5 10 to 11.5 Large 10 to 11.5 X-Large 12 to 14 Match your Shoe Size with the Barefoot Science Size If your Shoe Size is in between the Barefoot Science Sizes then order the smaller of the 2 sizes What's Included: 3/4 Length pair of Barefoot Science insoles for work or street shoes with 5  pairs of inserts 3/4 Length pair of Barefoot Science insoles for dress shoes plus 5 pairs of inserts instructional DVD FREE Bonus Set: Full Length pair of Barefoot Science insoles (for Athletic or Casual Footwear) with 5 reflex activating inserts FREE Bonus Pedometer Step 2 - Order a second complete set now and save 20% plus free s&h on the second set! Size X-Small Size Small Size Medium Size Large Size X-Large Step 3 - Add Miracle Repair Cream and pay no s&h on it! $19.99 This Foot Repair Cream is made with 60% Ultra Aloe gel, to help repair dry, cracked feet and heels, and revive tired achy feet.  240 ml tube. $ 89.85 or 3 payments of $ 29.95 + $14.95 s&h (select at checkout) Add Express Delivery (select at checkout) Final step - Order now! Make your selection(s) above, then click Tested over 10 years in a variety of medical, hospital and clinical settings, Barefoot Science Foot Strengthening Insoles are clinically proven to reduce frequency, duration and intensity of foot and lower back pain. The Impact of Footwear and Insoles Eighty-five percent of North Americans will see a medical professional for some type of foot-related pathology at some point in their lifetime, according to the U.S. Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Association. In staggering contrast, only three percent of habitually barefoot populations experience foot-related problems. Studies conducted around the world indicate that footwear actually causes the majority of our foot, leg, and back problems. These studies also reveal that, by the age of six, children's feet are negatively affected by conventional footwear. The feet, as with any other musculoskeletal structure in the body, are positively or negatively affected by environmental stresses. For example, it is commonly accepted that exercising through a full range of motion promotes a balance of strength and flexibility in opposing muscle groups, encouraging optimum bone density and ideal alignment at the joints. The net result is a stronger, more efficient structure, capable of optimal performance with the least degree of unhealthy stress or susceptibility to injury. Conversely, it is also commonly understood that a restrictive or bracing environment leads to muscle atrophy, loss of bone mass, and joint stiffness. The net result of this is a weaker, less efficient structure that is prone to the greatest degree of unhealthy stress due to poor structural alignment, imbalances in strength and flexibility, and over-compensation in opposing muscle groups. These concepts are well known to medical science. Indeed, facilitating full movement in any musculoskeletal structure is fundamental to most current rehabilitative and sports performance programs. The question is: how do these concepts apply to the feet, the intricate musculoskeletal structures that are comprised of nearly half the bones in the human body? In an attempt to improve comfort and performance, many footwear companies promote designs that incorporate a variety of support features. Unfortunately, this creates a never-ending cycle where the foot becomes progressively weaker and even more dependent on the added support. The greater the support, the weaker the foot becomes. Conventional insoles and shoe inserts work in much the same way as supportive footwear - they provide additional cushioning, support, or bracing, which contributes to a weakened muscular structure. The Barefoot Science Foot Strengthening System is the only technology that addresses the cause of most common foot-related problems by safely retraining and strengthening the muscles that support the feet. As the foot's arch becomes higher, stronger, and more stable, alignment improves throughout the body and painful symptoms caused by stress and strain are reduced or eliminated. The Barefoot Science System's unique patented dome design works just like an exercise program in your shoes, retraining and strengthening your feet with every step as you stand, walk, or run. How Barefoot Science Foot Strenthening System Works After years of research, Barefoot Science has developed revolutionary new technologies that are based on the principles of rehabilitative medicine to not only rehabilitate the structure, but actually prevent problems from occurring in the first place. The Barefoot Science Foot Strengthening System works right inside the shoes to safely stimulate and retrain the muscle-firing sequences necessary to align, stabilize, and lock the foot's interlocking bones, prior to heel strike. The unique dome contour of the Foot Strengthening System generates a gentle recoil pressure on the foot's most sensitive plantar surface area, at the location required for an optimal arch apex during weight-bearing. When standing, this pressure is only slightly noticeable, increasing during gait if the foot is functionally unstable. Not comfortable with the pressure, the body attempts to pull away from it, as this area of the foot is not designed to function as a weight-bearing surface. The pressure stimulates involuntary reflex response contractions of the only muscles that can effectively create and stabilize the arch apex, raising the sensitive area away from the pressure. When standing, the neuromuscular reflex response raises the big toe. As a means of preventing an intensified pressure during the increased loads of gait, the natural proprioceptive biofeedback mechanisms initiate and retrain these muscle-firing sequences during the swing phase. These muscle-firing sequences align the interlocking bones of the foot into the most structurally sound dome-like dynamic. The intrinsic musculature of the foot then fulfills its primary role, which is fine-tuning its balance during its interaction with the ground. This structural integrity and alignment is maintained up through the body through a wide range of three-dimensional movements. The structure, as a whole, is stronger and more energy efficient, with superior natural shock absorption, and is capable of superior performance with the lowest risk of injury. The Barefoot Science Foot Strengthening System's unique dome design allows full, unrestricted mobility of the foot, ensuring that ideal structural alignment is consistently maintained. The Barefoot Science System will effectively counteract the negative environmental influences of most footwear. However, the System provides greatest benefit when it is worn in soft, flexible footwear with minimal restriction over the arch area. Footwear should also provide adequate toe box depth with minimal heel flare and height. In all instances, lacing should be very loose - just enough to keep the shoe on the foot. Benefits of Using Barefoot Science Stimulates proper firing of the muscles used to align and stabilize the foot, leading to increased strength and flexibility. Promotes unrestricted range of motion while promoting optimum structural integrity of the foot. Promotes optimum arch height and stability. Enhances alignment throughout the body, relieving tension and stress on the knees, hips, and back. 3/4 length This version can be worn right out of the box and is for shoes without a removable insole, such as most dress shoes and some casual shoes. Slip the 3/4 length in so that the heel of the insole fits snugly into the heel pocket of the shoe. The insole is held securely in place by your own body weight. Full length This version has been designed with extra material around the toe area for trimming and is appropriate for shoes that feature a removable insole, such as most athletic and recreational shoes. Typically, the generic insole that comes with these types of shoe is slightly contoured and may interfere with how flat the Barefoot Science System is able to rest in the shoe. Home About Interwood Wholesale Info Privacy Statement Guarantee, Returns & Other Important Information ( en Français ) ( ) Order by Mail Our Customers Say ... Questions, Comments or Suggestions? We'd love to hear from you! Customer Service Hours: 
Monday to Friday 9 am to 5pm EST Send us an email or call: French & English Customer Service 1-866-584-1694 Chinese customer service 中文客户服務: 
      1-877-250-1665 Order toll-free Monday -