Connection: close
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 22:56:50 GMT
Server: lighttpd/1.4.29

Does anyone know first foot in the order of cinnamon? Home Does anyone know first mitt something like cinnamon? I am insulin resistant, my triglycerides are high. My endocrinologist doesn't know why.. Anyway, I read about cinnamon and how it can assist with blood sugar levels and counterbalance. I have about 30lbs to lose. This morning I drank my conventional ensure drink and I blended it with fiber and cinnamon. It was YUMMY! I am only just hoping that someone has some first hand knowlege give or take a few this. I don not want to take any prescription meds.. I already take 2 Answers: Cinnamon is great but you stipulation to take capsules to return with the full benefit--can't eat enough and the food is not pure ample to eat more than a teaspoon or two a day.  It works powerfully, or it has for me (I don't have diabetes but an pre-diabetic).  . I enjoy a friend that use Australian Bush Flower Essences ones she found helpful to regulate blood sugar was Peach-flowered Tea-tree.  Took 7 drops morning and hours of darkness and was surprised at how stable the blood sugar was and be able to actually lower her dose of insuline ( she also have brittle diabetese though and took the immune boost that regulates the immune system and her blood sugar did not drop as much either) but in reading the book it seems to sustain both too high or too low a blood sugar.  It is not a drug and as long as you regularly adjust your dose related to your blood sugar reading (under supervision of the doctor) it would not be harmful to try it. You might want to read up in the region of the ABFE in the book "Australian Bush Flower Healing" by Ian White ISBN-10: 073380 Yahoo email group discussing Australian Bush Flower Essences http://health.groups.yahoo.com/group/ABF... . I take 2 as okay for my seizures. Sucks does it? I hate it. I haven't eard anything around how it can help lower blood sugar, I know that it does taste accurate though. You might try Melaceula, I don't know if they have pills that you have to cart, or if there is something that you can mix into a drink, but everything they have is organic. You normally have to jump on invitation, but you can fill out a form and someone will contact you, but you can look at their products first. (Not about the cinnamon I know, but it might be something else to consider) I hope this help! Yes, my cousin who is a man in his 70's went bad of diabetic meds after using just a teas. of cinnamon everydayI don't know if you have looked into ensure ingredient but I tried one of these drinks for diabetes & he had an unbelievable amount of carbohydrates contained by it which is what you have to look at...I would be wary of artificial sugar tooI used to munch through a low carb yogurt (12 carbs) sprinkle cinnamon on it & put some granola in it & at one time berries cause they are pious for diabetics. This was my breakfast everyday. I have tweaked my diet & I am doing really well now...If you haven't have someone help you get on nearly 5-6 small meals a day to be exact the best thing to keep your sugar smooth & you are never hungry so you eat less. If you are on constant pills they will make you gain weight so you might want to ask ancestors about that.I have stayed indistinguishable but I just don't exercise that much & when I did I still stayed about he same but pay for then I was not intake the 6 meals a day.. Hi Heather,sorry I can't sustain you with this problem personally but I suggest your drop by a health food store and ask them they have profusely of healthy helpful inbred remedies like golden seal,cinnamon,ginger root etc.God Bless you next to the healing blood of Jesus..Blessings Yahoo I'm not sure about the science bringing up the rear it but I have heard that also. I say-so that if it's yummy and it's not adding calories (don't use cinnamon/sugar) then dance for it.. Yes, it works. You should have it at breakfast on oatmeal and use a cinnamon stick in your tea. It lowers blood sugar but it take 4 to 6 weeks for the effects to kick in. pl check this http://myblogonbeauty.blogspot.com/2007/... IS IT BAD TO TAKE A MULTIVITAMIN AND AMOXCILLIN TOGETHER? What is vitamin A? please tell its merit and demerits? What are the methods to help cure childhood obesity? Tramadol vs Valium, which is better? How long does it thieve for a hot sea bottle inscribe on your skin to disappear ? Is it really imposible to find a womanly masseuse within Delhi? Looking for a serious rub, not something dodgy.? Dose enzyte really acctually work or is it a short time ago bull? Alternative Medicine Dental Diet Fitness Diseases Conditions General Health Care Men's Health Mental Health Other Women's Health The entirety of this site is protected by copyright © 2008. All rights r