Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 04 Aug 2009 23:57:00 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "06e97415f15ca1:ddec"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 13:27:44 GMT
Connection: close

Pneumococcal Pneumonia (Lobar Pneumonia) Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.histopathology-india.net www.surgical-pathology.com www.pathology-india.com CLICK ON THE IMAGE: Pneumococcal 
      pneumonia is an infection in the lungs caused by bacteria called Streptococcus pneumoniae (also called pneumococcus ). Streptococcus pneumoniae is a Gram-positive 
      coccus that may be found in pairs or in short chains. Visit: Pulmonary Pathology Online Lobar 
      Pneumonia involves large portion of a lobe or an entire lobe of the lung . Image 
      Link1 ; Image Link2 P neumococcal 
      pneumonia is of diminishing 
      significance because of prompt response to treatment, it is still a significant illness in industrialized nations. 
      In the 
      non-industrialized world it is still a major cause of mortality. It is commonly a disease of healthy young 
      to middle-aged adults, is rare in infants, and the elderly, and is 
      considerably more common in men than in women. Alcoholics appear to be particularly 
      vulnerable. It can infect the 
      upper respiratory tracts of adults and children and can spread to the 
      blood, lungs, middle ear, or nervous system. Pneumococcal pneumonia is commonly seen in 
      young adults after exposure to cold or after previous respiratory 
      infection. It typically follows a viral infection, often influenza . The onset of the 
      disease is sudden with fever and chills & ends in crisis after 9-10 days. Chest pain due to pleural involvement is common, as is hemoptysis, which 
      is characteristically “rusty”, since it is derived from altered blood in 
      alveolar spaces. Radiologic 
      examination shows alveolar filling in large areas of lung, producing a 
      solid appearance that extend to entire lobes or segments. Although the symptoms of pneumonia respond rapidly to antibiotic therapy, radiologically the lesion still takes several days to resolve. Before 
      antibiotic therapy the clinical course was characterized by severe fever, dyspnea, debility, and even loss of consciousness. The 
      satisfactory resolution of a crisis was the result of a good immune 
      response to the infection. However, often the outcome was not favorable 
      and the patient died. Sequence of stages 
      is described in 4 phases: Image1 ; Image2 ; Image3 ; Image4 ; Image5. All 4 phases may be 
      seen in different parts of the same lung. 1. Congestion (1-2 
      days) 2. Red hepatization  
      (2 nd -4 th day) 3. Gray hepatization 
      (4 th -6 th day) 4. Resolution (8 th -9 th day) In the earliest 
      stage of pneumococcal pneumonia, protein-rich edema fluid containing 
      numerous organisms (Streptococcus pneumoniae) fills the alveoli. Marked congestion of the capillaries is typical. Shortly after this 
      congestion occurs there is a massive outpouring of polymorphonuclear 
      leukocytes accompanied by intra-alveolar hemorrhage. Image1 ; Image2 ; Image3 ; Image4 . Many of the red blood 
      cells undergo lysis. These cells, together with polymprphonuclear 
      leukocytes, produce the rusty sputum. Because the firm consistency of the 
      affected lung is reminiscent of the liver, this stage has been  named 
      “red hepatization”. The next phase, 
      occurring after 2 or more days, depending on the success of  treatment, 
      involves the lysis of polymorphonuclear leukocytes and the appearance of 
      macrophages, which phagocytose the fragmented polymorphonuclear leukocytes 
      and other inflammatory debris. The lung is now no longer congested but 
      still remains firm in this stage of “gray hepatization”. The alveolar exudates is then removed and the lung gradually returns to normal. Visit: Bronchopneumonia Complications 
      of pneumonia: 1. Delayed 
      resolution. 2. Abscess formation 
      . 3. Empyema 4. Organization of 
      exudates with fibrosis. 5. Bacteremia & 
      septicemia with infection to other organs e.g. endocarditis, pericarditis, 
      meningitis, arthritis etc. A painful pleuritis is common because the 
      pneumonia often extends to the pleura. There is usually a small pleural 
      effusion, which resolves. However, this may occasionally be large and 
      purulent ( pyothorax) 
      and may heal with extensive fibrosis. Rarely, the purulent exudates 
      persists and leads to a loculated collection of pus with fibrous walls (empyema ). Bacteremia is usually present in the early stage and may result in 
      endocarditis or meningitis. ( Infective Endocarditis ; Meningococcal Infection ) Rarely, the alveolar lesion proceeds to 
      fibrosis, in which case the intra-alveolar exudates becomes organized as 
      fibroblasts leads to a shrunken and firm lobe, a rare complication known 
      as “carnification”. Another uncommon 
      outcome is a lung abscess. L ittle is known about the precise pathogenesis of pneumococcal pneumonia. The frequency of a previous 
      respiratory tract infection suggests that impairment of airway clearance 
      mechanisms may be important. It has been suggested that the 
      organisms can multiply rapidly in the increased airway mucus and may then 
      be aspired into the periphery. The remarkably severe acute inflammation 
      with spreading edema has led to speculation that immunologic mechanisms 
      may be involved Cause of death : Toxemia with peripheral circulatory failure. Treatment : Penicillin (penicillin G/amoxicillin) remains the drug of choice for 
      strains that are fully sensitive or have a moderately decreased 
      susceptibility to penicillin, whereas cefotaxime and ceftriaxone are the 
      first-line alternatives in cases with higher levels of resistance. Abstracts: HIV and pneumococcal disease. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2007 Feb;20(1):11-15. Pneumococcal neuraminidases A and B 
          both have essential roles during infection of the respiratory tract 
          and sepsis. Infect 
          Immun. 2006 Jul;74(7):4014-20. Involvement of the platelet-activating 
          factor receptor in host defense against Streptococcus pneumoniae 
          during postinfluenza pneumonia. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2006 Jan;290(1):L194-9. 
          Epub 2005 Aug 12. Streptococcus pneumoniae: epidemiology, risk 
          factors, and clinical features. Semin 
          Respir Crit Care Med. 2005 
          Dec;26(6):563-74 I L-10 
          is an important mediator of the enhanced susceptibility to 
          pneumococcal pneumonia after influenza infection. J 
          Immunol. 2004 Jun 15;172(12):7603-9. Respiratory pathology associated with 
          pneumococcus. Bull 
          Acad Natl Med. 2002;186(8):1439-54; discussion 1454-9. Your Ad Here Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.histopathology-india.net www.surgical-pathology.com www.pathology-india.com August  2009 Histopathology-India.net diagnostichistopathology. blogspot.com Pathopedia-India.com Surgical-Pathology.com Pathology-India.com Pancreatic Pathology 
          Online Gall Bladder Pathology Online Paediatric Pathology Online Paraganglioma-Online Endocrine Pathology Online Eye Pathology Online Ear Pathology Online Cardiac Path Online Lung Tumour-Online Mesothelioma-Online Pulmonary Pathology Online Nutritional Pathology Online Environmental Pathology Online Pathology Quiz Online Dermpath-India GI Path Online Soft Tissue Pathology Case Index Infectious Disease Online ; INDEX: A-D ; INDEX: E-L ; INDEX: M-P ; INDEX: Q-Z ; FUNGAL DISEASE ; VIRAL DISEASE . E-book - History of  
          Medicine with special reference to India. Basic Pathology Blog Causative organism 
          of Lobar Pneumonia: (1)Pneumococcus - type 
      I, II, and III are responsible for 90% cases. Type III pneumo- cocci 
      are most virulent & mainly seen in patients over 50 years of age. (2) Occasionally, 
      Friedlander’s pneumobacillus. Pathogenesis: Sudden onset & 
      pathological changes suggest the role of hypersensitivity in the pathogenesis. Previous infection sensitizes the lungs, so that subsequent infection may result in 
      pneumonia. Pneumococci reach alveoli via bronchial 
      tree. They pass in the inflammatory fluid from 
      one alveolus to another through the alveolar pores of Cohn. Thus infection 
      spreads throughout the entire lobe. Edema producing 
      substances of capsular polysaccharide cause marked inflammatory edema with acute 
      inflammatory exudates filling up alveoli. The lung is converted into a 
      solid & airless organ.The 
      process is known consolidation or hepatization (liver-like in 
      consistency). Pathology: 1.Congestion: Gross: (i) Lungs are 
      dark-red color & pits on pressure (due to edema). (ii) Cut surface: 
      bloodstained frothy fluid comes out. Microscopic 
      features: (i) Alveolar 
      capillaries are dilated. (ii) Alveoli contain 
      edema fluid & pneumococci. (iii) Air is still 
      present in the alveoli. 2. Red hepatization: Gross: (i) Affected part of 
      the lung is consolidated, reddish-brown & sinks in water. It is friable. (ii) Outer surface is 
      covered with fibrinious exudates. (iii). Cut surface is 
      rough, dry & granular. Microscopic 
      feature: i)  Alveoli are 
      airless & filled up with inflammatory exudates consisting of RBCs, 
      neutrophils  & fibrin strands. ii) Alveolar wall is 
      thick (due to edema) with congested blood vessels (In low power -mosaic appearance) 3 . Grey 
      hepatization: Gross: (i) Consolidated 
      part is gray colour & more friable. (ii) In outer 
      surface pleural exudates is thicker. (iii) Cut surface is 
      moist & brownish-gray colour (bronchial lymphnodes may be enlarged). Microscopic features: (i) 
      Alveolar exudates have lost their freshness (due to action of proteolytic 
      enzymes). RBCs are  ghosts, nuclei of polymorphs are broken & indistinct and fibrin threads contract to form a 
      clear zone adjacent to alveolar wall. (ii) Alveolar wall 
      is thin (due to lack of edema) and congested blood vessels disappear. 4.Resolution: Gross : Lung is soft & translucent (jelly like). Microscopic features: (i) Macrophages 
      invade exudates. (ii) Alveolar 
      exudates is liquefied by proteolytic enzyme & removed. Thus the 
      consolidated lung is restored to normal. Disclaimer ; Privacy Policy ; Advertising Policy ; E-mail Copyri