
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 12:45:09 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.14
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Back Pain During Pregnancy PREGNANCY Pregnancy Week by Week Pregnancy Explained A to Z Trying to Conceive Due Date Calculator Birth Plan Template Pregnancy Videos Pregnancy Blog Share Your Pregnancy Pictures First Trimester Reading Second Trimester Reading Third Trimester Reading NEWBORN BABY WOMENS HEALTH Teen Health Menopause Women's Health NUTRITION-BEAUTY COMMUNITY Pregnancy Blog Ask Our Doc - Pregnancy Q & A Share Your Pregnancy Pictures Follow us on FaceBook Follow us on Twitter Suggestions and Feedback Christian Books and Games About Us Contact Us HEALTH VIDEOS Pregnancy Explained A-Z Lifestyle Early Symptoms Prenatal Care Nutrition Pregnancy Changes Back Discomfort Back Pain Comfort Measures Back Pain Treatments Bloating and Gas Breast Changes Breast Tenderness Clumsiness in Pregnancy Constipation Constipation and Gas Diarrhea Dizzy Dizziness & Fainting Dizziness & Light-Headedness Excess Salivation Fatigue Fatigue During Pregnancy Gas in Pregnancy Gingivitis and Sensitive Gums Gum and Tooth Changes Gum and Tooth Sensitivity Hair and Nail Changes Headaches & Migraines Heartburn Heartburn and Indigestion Hemorrhoids Hip Pain Hot Flashes in Pregnancy Insomnia Itching Leg Cramps in Pregnancy Lower Abdominal Pain Lower Abdominal Discomfort Nosebleeds & Pregnancy Physical Consequences Round Ligament Cause Round Ligament Pain Sciatica Sciatica & Pelvic Girdle Pain Short of Breath Shortness of Breath Sleep Problems Skin Changes Skin Changes Overview Skin Problems Spotting Early Pregnancy Stuffy Nose Stuffy Nose and Congestion Swelling Swelling How to Cope Stretch Marks in Pregnancy Urinary Frequency Urine Leaking Urination Urgency Vaginal Discharge Vaginal Discharge in Pregnancy Varicose Veins Varicose Spider Veins Vomiting Exercise Emotional Changes Travel Pregnancy Complications Pregnancy and Infections Labor & Delivery Post Partum What's Safe & What's Not Relieving Back Pain in Pregnancy Back Pain Comfort Measures and Treatments Reviewed by James W. Brann, MD Pregnancy Back Pain Almost all pregnant women at one point or another will suffer from back pain in pregnancy. Some will experience more pregnancy back pain than others.
 Pregnancy pillows will decrease your suffering from back pain during pregnancy. Why suffer? Try a pregnancy pillow. Backache in early pregnancy is caused by hormones and a woman's shifting center of gravity. When pregnant your hormones prepare you for childbirth by loosening up the ligaments that attach the pelvic bones to your spine. Many women feel backache in early pregnancy while walking, standing or bending. As your uterus continues to grow and push upwards, it will also weaken your abdominal muscles and change your posture, which can put added strain on your back.
When at rest you could use pregnancy pillows to support that aching body. Many women feel sharp backache during pregnancy up and down their back, legs and buttocks during pregnancy. This back pain during pregnancy often results when the baby's head presses on the pelvic bones, which subsequently press on sciatic nerves. This may cause legs to feel weak or numb as well. Treating Low Back Pain in Pregnancy Fortunately there are many things you can do to help alleviate some of the low back pain in early pregnancy you might be feeling during pregnancy. Resting and soaking in a warm bath often help alleviate a back that is sore and aching. It is not a good idea however to sit in a hot tub. Immersion in water hotter than 102F can be dangerous for your baby. Hot and cold packs applied directly to the affected area are safe and can help relax strained muscles and ligaments with pregnancy back pain. Some women are kept up at night by  back pain or back ache during pregnancy. If this is the case you might be more comfortable if you try sleeping on your side with a pregnancy pillow propped up between your legs. The Snoozer pregnancy pillows and body pillows are made for side sleeping. The Snoozer pregnancy pillow is shaped perfectly to place your head on and between your knees at the same time. Of course, it would be best if you could avoid backache during pregnancy all together. Though there are no guarantees, there are some things you can do to avoid worsening back pain during pregnancy. Exercise to prevent low back pain in early pregnancy - Starting an exercise program early in pregnancy can help strengthen and stretch the muscles in your back and legs. Swimming is an excellent exercise for women at all stages of pregnancy and helps strengthen the lower back. In addition the buoyancy of the water may help alleviate the strain you are experiencing in pregnancy back pain, joints and ligaments. Pregnancy pillows will also help to alleviate that lower back strain. Sit up Straight to avoid back pain with pregnancy - If you find yourself sitting at a computer terminal or sitting in general for long periods of time, make an effort to keep your feet slightly raised off the floor. Take frequent breaks to get up and walk around which will help stretch your muscles and ligament and relieve back pain during pregnancy. Wear Comfortable Shoes to avoid back pain - For most pregnant women, comfortable shoes are those that are low profile. High heels are not recommended, particularly if you want to avoid unnecessary back pain in pregnancy. When you get home take those shoes off and snuggle with your pregnancy pillow. Bend from the Knees if you want to avoid back pain - If you have to lift objects, bend from your knees and not your waist. This will help prevent injury. Comfort Measures for Lower Back Pain in Pregnancy There are also some modalities you can use to help alleviate back pain during pregnancy. Among these are maternity support belts and pregnancy pillows. With walking support belts add that extra support needed for comfort and at night a Snoozer pregnancy pillow provides support in all the right places. A pregnancy pillow will provide exceptional support for your head, neck, shoulders, abdomen and even legs. Pregnancy pillows also help accommodate your growing belly and help alleviate pregnancy back pain. Pregnancy pillows also prove to be useful and comfortable post-pregnancy, thus are well worth the time and investment! A pregnancy support belt can help by lifting your abdomen without squeezing it thus avoiding backache in pregnancy. They encourage more effective posture and may eliminate lower back pain in pregnancy altogether. Pregnancy support belts are wonderful as preventive measures as well as used for treating lower back pain during pregnancy. They may also alleviate some of the pressure and discomfort associated with varicose veins during pregnancy, as they lift the uterus and abdomen slightly alleviating some of the pressure on a woman's veins. Women's Healthcare Topics   All Rights Reserved  ©Copyright 20