<0.01). Preeclampsia occurred in 10% of snorers, compared with 4% of non-snorers (p <0.05). An Apgar score <7 was more common in infants born to habitual snorers. Growth retardation of the fetus, defined as small for gestational age at birth, had occurred in 7.1% of the infants of snoring mothers and 2.6% of the remaining infants (p <0.05)” (p. 137). (Courtesy of Sharon Walker, MSN, RN.) Furthermore, Vankata and Venkateshiah (2009) indicate that “obstructive sleep apnea has been associated with an increased risk of hypertension among the general population, and this raises the possibility of its association with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia.” PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Vasospasm in the arterioles of patients with gestational hypertension causes increased blood pressure and a decrease in placenta and uterine perfusion. Renal blood flow is reduced, along with the renal glomerular filtration rate, which produces proteinuria. Headaches and visual disturbances are the result of cellular damage and cerebral edema caused by central nervous system changes in the presence of hypertension. Liver enlargement is the result of hepatic changes that lead to epigastric pain. Generalized vasospasm causes endothelial cell damage, which triggers coagulation pathways and, subsequently, abnormalities in bleeding and clotting can occur (Leifer, 2005). SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS Signs and symptoms of pregnancy-related hypertension vary depending on the severity of the hypertension. However, the common signs and symptoms of pregnancy-related hypertension include headache, blurred vision, epigastric pain, weight gain (>2 pounds per week), oliguria, and proteinuria. Although no longer considered diagnostic of pregnancy-related hypertension (Cunningham et al., 2005), edema may still be noted in these patients. MATERNAL AND FETAL IMPLICATIONS Hypertension in pregnancy places patients and their fetuses at great risk for a variety of complications. Some of the most significant maternal complications of hypertension in pregnancy include cerebral vascular accident (CVA), disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and placental abruption from the elevated blood pressure. Additionally, patients are at risk for the development of HELLP syndrome in the presence of gestational hypertension. Just as its’ name implies, HELLP syndrome causes great dysfunction within the body that requires immediate intervention. It is characterized by: H emolysis of red blood cells, which leads to anemia E levated l iver enzymes leading to epigastric pain L ow p latelets, which cause abnormal bleeding and clotting as well as petechiae Patients whose function continues to decline without intervention can develop eclampsia and are at risk for cerebral hemorrhage, aspiration pneumonia, hypoxic encephalopathy, and thromboembolic disorders (Callahan et al., 2004). Fetal complications include intrauterine growth retardation and premature delivery resulting from decreased placenta perfusion. MEDICAL TREATMENT Medical treatment for patients with pregnancy-related hypertension greatly depends on the severity of hypertension and the gestational age of the fetus, as well as the potential risk to the patient and fetus. During early pregnancy, outpatient management is usually appropriate; these patients are monitored at home for blood pressure and proteinuria. Regular fetal monitoring is necessary to evaluate fetal well-being. In addition, placental perfusion tests can also be performed to assess and monitor uteroplacental sufficiency. Patients with evidence of advanced dysfunction, such as oliguria, renal failure, or HELLP syndrome, are usually delivered immediately (Leifer, 2005). Since delivery is the only known cure for pregnancy-related hypertension, many healthcare providers will recommend immediate induction and delivery if the patient is near-term and shows signs of severe preeclampsia or eclampsia. However, if the healthcare provider determines that the fetus is too premature for delivery, antihypertensive medications may be administered to decrease blood pressure, thereby prolonging fetal growth in utero. Glucocorticoids are administered to enhance fetal lung maturity (Cunningham et al., 2005). Healthcare providers may prescribe magnesium sulfate (MgSO 4 ) during labor and delivery to prevent seizures. Magnesium sulfate is not used to control hypertension. Magnesium sulfate  is administered intravenously via an infusion delivery device during delivery and for 24 hours post delivery. Since MgSO 4 can cause fetal respiratory depression following delivery, arrangements should be made for specialized neonatal care. NURSING CARE Pregnancy-related hypertension presents a great risk to patients and their unborn fetuses. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the nurse to monitor the patient carefully for signs of a decline in health status. The nurse should immediately report increases in blood pressure, visual disturbance changes, severe headaches, epigastric pain, and oliguria to the appropriate healthcare provider. While patients are hospitalized for pregnancy-related hypertension, the nurse will monitor blood pressure and the well-being of the fetus. If magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) is prescribed for preeclampsia or eclampsia, a Foley catheter is usually inserted to monitor urine output and to obtain regular urine specimens. The nurse is responsible for administering  MgSO 4 and for monitoring its toxicity. Magnesium sulfate toxicity can be prevented by ensuring that urine output is adequate (at least 30 ml/hr), deep tendon reflexes are present, and the respiratory rate is greater than 12 breaths per minute. If  MgSO 4 toxicity is noted, the healthcare provider must be notified immediately and the infusion discontinued. Calcium gluconate can be administered when prescribed to reverse the effects of magnesium MgSO 4 toxicity. The serum magnesium level for patients receiving MgSO 4 should be 4 to 7 mg/dl (Cunningham et al., 2005). In the presence of eclampsia, the nurse must be prepared to prevent injury to the patient during seizures and to monitor seizure activity. Bed side rails should be up and padded. Emergency equipment should be readily available, including an oral airway, oxygen, a bag-valve-mask (BVM), and emergency medication. In the event of a seizure, patients should be protected from injury. The nurse should note the beginning and ending of the seizure and ensure adequate oxygenation after seizure activity has ceased. The nurse should not attempt to insert an oral airway or other object into the mouth during a seizure. The head can be gently turned to the side to prevent the aspiration of mucus and vomitus into the lungs during seizure activity (Leifer, 2005). The nurse obtains vital signs and monitors the fetus following the seizure. NURSE ALERT: Seizures and Labor Progression Labor may progress rapidly during seizure activity. Sometimes newborns are delivered suddenly during a seizure (Leifer, 2005). The nurse should be prepared for an imminent delivery in patients with preeclampsia and eclampsia. PATIENT TEACHING Patients suffering from pregnancy-related hypertension who are being treated on an outpatient basis are taught to monitor themselves and their unborn child for a decline in health status. Specifically, patients are taught to notify their healthcare provider if they experience headaches, visual disturbances, epigastric pain, or sudden weight gain. Patients may be taught to monitor their weight, blood pressure, and urine protein at home. They are instructed to notify the appropriate healthcare provider of elevated blood pressures or protein in the urine. They should also be instructed to perform daily fetal kick counts to monitor fetal well-being, as well as to increase protein intake because proteinuria decreases the amount of available protein. The nurse encourages patients with pregnancy-related hypertension to rest in the left side-lying position as much as possible, whether at home or in the hospital. This position prevents unnecessary pressure on the vena cava, which decreases renal and placental blood flow and leads to increased blood pressure (Leifer, 2005). The patient should also be instructed to decrease environmental stimuli by lowering or turning off lights and by decreasing the volume on radios or televisions as well as decreasing the number of visitors. Nursing care should be performed in a manner that prevents unnecessary disturbances to the patient’s environment while hospitalized. Stress and anxiety is a major concern in patients with pregnancy-related hypertension, as it can lead to increased blood pressure. Therefore, the nurse should discuss stress and anxiety management with patients. CASE E.D., a 16-year-old, comes to the OB clinic for her regular checkup. She is pregnant for the first time, with twins, and is in her 37th week of gestation. When her name is called she rushes in to the examination room saying, “I’m so glad my appointment was today. I would’ve come in even if it wasn’t. Mom couldn’t make it today. I had to catch the bus. My head feels like it’s going to explode and my face has gotten fat like my belly. I can’t wait for this whole thing to be over.” E.D.’s vital signs are T 98.2, P 70, R 20, and BP 150/98. Her urine is 2+ for protein. Pitting edema of +2 is noted bilaterally in the lower extremities. The fetal heart rates are in the 150s for both fetuses. E.D.’s mother usually attends prenatal appointments and has talked in the past about the seizures she experienced when she was pregnant with E.D. Discussion E.D. will be assessed thoroughly for complications associated with pregnancy-related hypertension. She has some risk factors and exhibits several symptoms. E.D. is very young, is pregnant with twins, and has a family history of eclampsia. She has proteinuria, facial edema, and edema of the lower extremities. E.D. may be hospitalized on bed rest for evaluation of her condition. Her vital signs will be closely monitored with attention to fetal well-being, urinary output, and reports of headache, visual disturbances, and epigastric pain. The goals of hospitalization include prevention of seizure and promotion of a safe delivery. Since E.D. is so close to her due date, an induced delivery may be considered. (Case study, courtesy of Sharon Walker, MSN, RN.) GESTATIONAL DIABETES MELLITUS Gestational diabetes mellitus occurs with the onset of pregnancy and is characterized by the inability of the pregnant patient to tolerate glucose. Patients who develop gestational diabetes may develop diabetes later in life. However, gestational diabetes often resolves after delivery. The cause of gestational diabetes is largely unknown. However, it is believed that, as the fetus grows, glucose demands increase for the pregnant patient. In addition, the “insulin-antagonistic” properties of placental hormones affect the patient by causing insulin resistance (Lowdermilk & Perry, 2006). As a result, the pregnant patient is unable to process glucose in the body and hyperglycemia occurs. INCIDENCE AND RISK FACTORS According to the American Diabetes Association (n.d.), gestational diabetes affects 7% of pregnancies in the United States. Several factors that place patients at risk for developing gestational diabetes mellitus are listed below. RISK FACTORS FOR GESTATIONAL DIABETES MELLITUS Maternal obesity Advanced maternal age Member of a minority population GDM in previous pregnancies Presence of glycosuria History of a macrosomic infant(s) (birthweight >4500 g) History of spontaneous abortion or fetal demise Family history of diabetes mellitus or GDM MATERNAL AND FETAL COMPLICATIONS A variety of maternal and fetal complications are associated with gestational diabetes mellitus. Patients have a significant chance of delivering via cesarean section due to the large size of infants born to patients with gestational diabetes. Patients also have an increased frequency of hypertension (Cunningham et al., 2005). Infants born to patients with gestational diabetes mellitus are usually macrosomic (birthweight >4500 grams). This occurs due to fetal hyperinsulinemia as a result of maternal hyperglycemia, which stimulates excessive growth. These large infants may have difficulty maneuvering the birth canal and a cesarean section may be required. If vaginal delivery is attempted, the infant is at risk for shoulder dystocia or other birth injuries. After delivery, the newborn infant’s blood glucose must be monitored regularly due to the sharp decrease in available glucose after the umbilical cord is cut. The newborn’s pancreas continues to produce insulin after delivery despite the decrease in serum glucose. This adds to the potential instability of the infant’s blood glucose. Infants are also at risk for hypocalcemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and respiratory distress syndrome as a result of gestational diabetes. MEDICAL TREATMENT Pregnant patients are routinely screened for gestational diabetes mellitus between 24 and 29 weeks’ gestation. In order to diagnose gestational diabetes, patients drink 50 grams of oral glucose solution. After one hour, a blood sample is obtained and tested for glucose tolerance. A glucose level of 135 to 140 mg/dL is considered a positive screen and further investigation is warranted; A 2-hour or 3-hour glucose tolerance test is then typically performed (Cunningham et al., as cited in Lowdermilk & Perry, 2006). Most patients with gestational diabetes are treated through diet. They are encouraged to consume a proper diet and obtain adequate exercise. According to the American Diabetes Association (as cited in Cunningham, et al., 2005), patients with gestational diabetes should consume a diet that provides 30-kcal/kg/d. Furthermore, they indicate that patients with a body mass index greater than 30 kg/m 2 may benefit from a 30% to 33% caloric restriction. Besides proper diet and exercise, some patients may require insulin or oral hypoglycemia agents to manage gestational diabetes mellitus. NURSE ALERT: Resistance Exercise and Gestational Diabetes Brankston and associates (as cited in Cunningham, et al., 2005), indicate that resistance exercise can help overweight patients with gestational diabetes avoid insulin therapy. NURSING CARE It is important for the nurse to monitor serum glucose levels as well as ketones and glucose in the urine throughout the pregnancy of patients with gestational diabetes mellitus. A referral to a dietician may also be necessary. The nurse may also conduct regular fetal surveillance including non-stress tests (NST) or biophysical profiles (BPP) starting from 32 to 36 weeks’ gestation and until delivery. During labor, the patient with gestational diabetes mellitus may need to be on intravenous insulin and glucose; blood glucose levels will be monitored regularly according to medical orders or institutional policies. Blood glucose may be monitored as often as every hour. After delivery, the nurse is responsible for monitoring the infant’s blood glucose levels, as glucose instability is common in newborns born to patients with gestational diabetes mellitus. If the newborn’s blood glucose level is below acceptable national or institutional standards, usually <40 mg/dL, treatment with intravenous fluids, intravenous or oral glucose, or early feedings is necessary. Nurses must be aware of signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia in the newborn, including jitteriness, tremors, irritability, lethargy, seizures, tachypnea, temperature instability, and/or poor feeding and take appropriate action to assist in the treatment of hypoglycemia. PATIENT TEACHING The nurse working with patients who are diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus is often responsible for teaching the patient how to self-monitor and record glucose and ketones at home. In addition, the nurse can teach patients about proper diet and safe exercise during pregnancy. During prenatal visits, the nurse reviews the blood glucose and diet logs to make recommendations about monitoring, medication administration, and diet. Patients may also need to learn how to self-administer insulin. The nurse should make sure the patient can comfortably and appropriately check blood glucose levels and administer insulin by requesting a return demonstration. It is imperative that the nurse teach patients with gestational diabetes the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. These signs and symptoms include shakiness, anxiety, headache, hunger, cold, clammy skin, and tingling around the mouth. The patient should be taught to closely monitor for hypoglycemia and to notify their healthcare provider immediately if signs and symptoms are noted. The patient can drink milk or juice or eat fruit to correct hypoglycemia (Leifer, 2007). Since the potential for developing diabetes is significant in patients with gestational diabetes, it is important that patients understand the need for follow-up evaluation after delivery. Patients should continue to watch for signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia and notify their healthcare provider if seen. CASE A.B. is a 31 year-old patient pregnant for the fourth time. She has one living child, born at 36 weeks of gestation weighing 11 pounds. A.B. had a stillborn baby born at 36 weeks and one spontaneous abortion. This is her routine 28-week prenatal visit. She arrives early to drink a 50-gram dose of glucose cola and have blood drawn for the oral glucose challenge test. The results of the test are abnormal. Discussion A.B. shows signs of a history of gestational diabetes mellitus. A macrosomic infant, a stillborn, and a spontaneous abortion are indicative of a diabetic mother. She will be taught to monitor her blood glucose levels and self-administer insulin. The nurse will stress to A.B. the importance of proper diet and blood glucose control for her health and the health of her unborn baby. (Case study, courtesy of Sharon Walker, MSN, RN.) AMNIOTIC MEMBRANE COMPLICATIONS Premature rupture of membranes (PROM) refers to the rupture of membranes 1 hour or more before the onset of labor, whereas preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) refers to the rupture of membranes prior to 37 weeks’ gestation. Preterm premature rupture of membranes and PROM are often associated with preterm labor and birth. INCIDENCE AND RISK FACTORS Preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) occurs in 3% of pregnancies and is the cause of one-third of preterm deliveries (Medina & Hill, 2006). Premature rupture of membranes (PROM) occurs in 3%- to 18% of all pregnancies (Brown, 2000). Risk factors for preterm premature and premature rupture of membranes include infections such as STIs, a prematurely dilated cervix, hydramnios, multiple pregnancy, fetal malpresentation, maternal nutritional deficiencies, and stress. African American patients have a higher risk of developing early rupture of membranes (Brown, 2000). “Between 80% and 90% of those women who rupture membranes between 28 and 34 weeks [gestation] will give birth within 7 days”  (Davidson, London & Ladewig, 2008). NURSE ALERT: Respiratory Diseases and PROM Getahun and colleagues (2007) hypothesized “… that acute and chronic respiratory diseases [were] associated with [an] increased risk of spontaneous PROM through bacteremia and increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines” (p. 670). After conducting a study of the delivery data for more than 41 million women, they found that “of the acute respiratory conditions, acute upper respiratory disease and viral and bacterial pneumonia were associated with PROM, but not acute bronchitis. Of the chronic respiratory conditions, asthma was associated with PROM, but chronic bronchitis was not” (p. 671). MATERNAL AND FETAL IMPLICATIONS Preterm premature rupture of membranes can cause a variety of problems, especially for the unborn fetus. Without the protective barrier of the amniotic membrane, the fetus is at a greater risk for the development of infection and preterm delivery. The fetus is also at risk for becoming septic after delivery. Additionally, without the cushioning of the amniotic fluid there is a higher probability of umbilical cord compression as well as cord prolapse. Patients with PPROM or PROM have a risk of developing chorioamnionitis, which is an infection of the chorion and amnion of the placenta that can be life-threatening for the patient and fetus. MEDICAL TREATMENT The first step in determining the appropriate course of action for patients with PROM or PPROM involves distinguishing amniotic fluid from urine. Often patients complain of a “sudden gush” or a constant trickle of fluid from the vagina once the membranes have actually ruptured. The healthcare provider will then perform a sterile speculum examination to look for pooling of amniotic fluid near the cervix. Fluid is tested using nitrazine paper as well as via microscopic examination for the presence of “ferning.” Ultrasound examination may be performed to determine the amount of available amniotic fluid after the rupture of membranes. Medical treatment for patients with PPROM or PROM depends on a variety of factors. Gestational age, fetal lung maturity, available amniotic fluid, and etiology must be considered before deciding on treatment. Patients near term whose labor does not begin spontaneously following the rupture of membranes may be induced if the cervix is ripe. For preterm patients, healthcare providers and patients may desire to prolong the pregnancy to promote fetal lung maturity. Patients who are preterm may be prescribed corticosteroids to promote fetal lung maturity until deliver occurs or until there is a need to induce labor. The cause of early rupture of membranes as well as the degree of amniotic fluid loss must also be considered when determining the appropriate course of action for patients with PPROM. Antibiotics are often administered to treat any infection and to prevent chorioamnionitis. If there is a significant loss of amniotic fluid rather than a slow leak, there is a stronger possibility of the need to induce labor. However, in preterm gestation, an amniotic sac with a slow leak of amniotic fluid may form a seal and the amniotic fluid may reestablish itself (McKinney et al., 2005). NURSING CARE As with medical treatment, nursing care greatly depends on whether the medical diagnosis is PPROM or PROM. However, nursing care typically involves assisting the healthcare provider to confirm the rupture of membranes, monitoring the patient for infection and for the presence of uterine contractions, and monitoring the status of the fetus. It is imperative that the nurse change patient underpads frequently and avoid unnecessary vaginal examinations to prevent infection. Often, patients with PPROM who are considered stable are initially monitored on an inpatient basis and then discharged to home. Nursing care for these patients involves teaching about the signs and symptoms of preterm labor and when to call the healthcare provider. Nursing care for patients whose labor is induced involves administering induction agents and monitoring the status of the patient, fetus, and uterine contractions. As with all complications in pregnancy, the nurse should be available to answer questions and assist in relieving the patient’s anxiety about her diagnosis. NURSE ALERT: Cord Prolapse When dealing with PPROM and PROM, the nurse should be prepared to deal with cord prolapse and compression, which can occur as the umbilical cord slips down in the pelvis and is a life-threatening situation for the fetus; therefore, the fetus must be monitored closely. In the event of cord prolapse and compression, the nurse should attempt to relieve pressure on the umbilical cord and instruct the patient to quickly move into the knee-chest or Trendelenburg position. Oxygen should be administered and the healthcare provider notified immediately. PATIENT TEACHING It is important for patients with PPROM to understand the signs and symptoms that suggest infection as well as preterm labor, which often follows PPROM. Patients should be instructed to call their healthcare provider or report to the hospital immediately if the following signs and symptoms are noted: Fever greater than 100.4°F (38°C) Foul-smelling vaginal discharge or other signs of infection Uterine contractions or cramping (including tightening of the abdomen) Decreased fetal movement In addition, patients should be encouraged to avoid activities or objects that might induce labor or cause infection by exposing the cervix to bacteria. These include sexual activity, orgasm, nipple stimulation, and tampons and douches. Some patients may be placed on bed rest and should be encouraged to follow this directive to prevent preterm labor. CASE N.M. a 26-year-old in the 30th week of her second pregnancy has come to the clinic for an additional prenatal visit. “I came in because I’m not sure what’s going on down there. It feels like I’m peeing on myself, but I don’t think I am.” A small amount of clear liquid is noted on N.M.’s peri-pad. “It all started yesterday morning, and when I told my husband he said I should stay home from work, relax, and take a nice hot bath.” A sterile speculum was used to sample the fluid pooled near the cervix. When tested using nitrazine paper and examined microscopically, the fluid is alkalotic and shows ferning. N.M. is not experiencing any cramping or uterine contractions. Fetal heart tones are strong and regular and all of N.M.’s vital signs are within normal limits. N.M. asked “Does this mean I will have a dry labor?” Discussion N.M. has preterm premature rupture of membranes. Since she is stable, is now leaking only small amounts of fluid, and has no signs of infection, her healthcare provider may choose to discharge N.M. to her home with appropriate discharge instructions. N.M. will be told to take her temperature twice a day and report a reading higher than 100.4°F (38°C), as well as, uterine tenderness, uterine contractions, or offensive-smelling vaginal discharge. N.M. should avoid activities or objects that might bring about labor or cause infection. She will be told to avoid taking baths. N.M. should be informed that, because amniotic fluid is constantly being formed, she will not experience a dry labor. N.M.’s healthcare provider may put her on bed rest with bathroom privileges. (Case study, courtesy of Sharon Walker, MSN, RN.) PRETERM LABOR AND BIRTH Preterm labor refers to labor that occurs after 20 weeks’, but before 37 weeks’, gestation. Preterm birth , a consequence of preterm labor, refers to delivery prior to 37 weeks’ gestation. INCIDENCE AND RISK FACTORS Preterm labor is responsible for preterm birth, which affects the ability of the newborn to adjust to extrauterine life. According to the National Vital Statistics Reports (2010), the preterm birth rate in the United States in 2008 was 12.3%, which was an increase from 2000 data. Preterm birth is a significant contributor to infant mortality rates. The box below presents a variety of risk factors that predispose patients to preterm labor and subsequent birth. RISK FACTORS FOR PRETERM LABOR AND BIRTH Infection Dehydration PPROM Uterine bleeding Diabetes Substance abuse Smoking Incompetent cervix Multiple gestation Preeclampsia Poor nutrition Poverty (e.g., homelessness, low socioeconomic status) History of preterm labor and birth Young or advanced maternal age Intimate partner violence (IPV) MATERNAL AND FETAL IMPLICATIONS Preterm labor and birth present a unique challenge to patients and their fetuses. Although most of the implications apply to the fetus, patients may suffer from stress due to the diagnosis of preterm labor and birth as well as from the causative agent. Specifically, patients may be experiencing preterm labor and birth due to conditions such as sepsis or IPV. The fetus is at great risk for delivering early as a result of preterm labor. The effects of preterm labor and birth depend on the gestational age of the fetus at delivery. However, the immaturity of fetal lungs in the presence of preterm labor and birth is a significant concern for healthcare providers. SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS Patients presenting with preterm labor and birth often complain of feeling pressure in the pelvic area, abdominal and/or uterine cramping or contractions, painful or painless contractions, feeling as though the fetus is “balling up,” and/or constant back pain. Amniotic membranes may rupture prematurely, therefore a sudden gush or constant trickle of vaginal fluid may be noted. MEDICAL TREATMENT According to the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (as cited in Cunningham et al., 2005), in order for a diagnosis of preterm labor to be given, the following should be noted: 4 contractions in 20 minutes or 8 contractions in 60 minutes with a progressive change in the cervix, cervical dilation greater than 1 cm and cervical effacement of 80% or greater. Medical treatment for preterm labor and birth is dependent upon the gestational age of the fetus. Generally, healthcare providers seek to avoid delivery of patients prior to 34 weeks’ gestation to allow further maturation of the fetal lungs (Cunningham et al., 2005). Often healthcare providers prescribe antibiotics to treat infection, glucocorticoids to increase fetal lung maturity, intravenous therapy to maintain hydration, and tocolytics to control uterine contractions in patients with preterm labor. NURSING CARE Nursing care for patients experiencing preterm labor include administering prescribed medications such as antibiotics, glucocorticoids, intravenous fluids, and tocolytics, and preparing the patient for possible delivery. While hospitalized, patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of infection, which can lead to preterm labor. Fetal tachycardia indicates possible infection and should be evaluated immediately. Vital signs, contractions, and fetal status should be assessed as ordered or according to institutional policy. As patients are often permitted to remain at home once stable, nursing care for these patients include teaching patients preventive measures that will help them avoid early delivery. When patients are faced with the possibility of delivering a preterm infant, the situation may quickly become overwhelming to them. Although preterm labor and birth can occur rapidly, it is imperative that nurses address the emotional issues of the patient. Generally, this will involve answering patient questions about the status of the fetus and preparing the patient for the care required to prevent delivery or the necessary preparation for preterm delivery. PATIENT TEACHING The major goal of teaching patients with preterm labor is to help them become aware of factors that may cause premature labor and delivery. TEACHING PATIENTS EXPERIENCING PRETERM LABOR Avoid activities that may disturb the cervix and cause labor or infection (e.g., vaginal exams, sexual activity, orgasm, tampons, douches). Rest in the left side-lying position to improve blood flow to the uterus. Consume adequate fluid to prevent dehydration, which causes the release of oxytocin. Encourage the patient to notify the healthcare provider immediately if any of the following signs and symptoms are noted: uterine contractions, cramping or irritability, constant back pain, a feeling that the fetus is “balling up,” a gush or a constant trickle of vaginal fluid, or fever. CASE C.F. phones the perinatal clinic. She is 18 years old and in the 32nd week of her second pregnancy. C.F.’s first child was born at 36 weeks’ gestation. After reviewing her chart, the nurse discovers that there is a history of social service intervention: As a result of C.F.’s impoverished circumstances, C.F. and her 3-year-old child receive nutritional support through the WIC (women, infants, and children) program, and live in a shelter to escape from an abusive cohabiting male. C.F. is sobbing over the phone and keeps repeating “I don’t want it to happen again.” The nurse asks C.F. to take a deep breath, sit down, and explain how she is feeling. After a short time, C.F. states that she is having uterine contractions that are occurring every 10 minutes and lasting for 1 to 2 minutes. The contractions started about 3 hours ago and did not stop when she tried to walk. Asked about a gush of water from the vagina, she denies it. C. F. says, “I still feel the baby kicking. That’s a good thing, isn’t it? Did I make this happen?” C.F. is told to have someone bring her to the hospital as soon as possible. She states that she already called for a ride and that she should be arriving at the hospital within 30 minutes. The nurse tells C.F. to lie down on her left side, drink plenty of fluid and wait for her ride. C.F. states “I can do that. Lisa, my roommate is napping and won’t wake up for a while.” Discussion C.F. is in the 32nd week of her pregnancy and may be in preterm labor. She has several risk factors including: poverty, a history of preterm labor and birth, poor nutrition, and possibly IPV. C.F. will be assessed for the condition of her cervix and amniotic membranes upon arriving at the hospital. Vital signs, contractions, and fetal status will be evaluated. C.F. will also be observed for signs of infection and dehydration. She is very anxious and, because she has had a previous preterm birth, she may have feelings of guilt that require reassurance and psychological support. The goal of her hospitalization would be to avoid delivery. (Case study, courtesy of Sharon Walker, MSN, RN.) CONCLUSION Pregnancy, labor, and birth are a wondrous time in the lives of countless women and their families. However, this time can be clouded by a variety of complications that affect the patient and fetus. Fortunately, with early identification and treatment of complications and their side effects, patients and their children have a greater chance of survival and the potential to thrive after delivery. Nurses play a special role in ensuring the safety of the patient and her unborn child during all phases of pregnancy and delivery. They must be knowledgeable about complications that can occur during pregnancy and ready to act on behalf of the patient and her child. This is the responsibility and goal of the perinatal nurse. Most hospitals and birthing centers provide guidelines for nurses providing care to patients experiencing complications during their pregnancies and nurses should always follow the recommendations of their facilities. REFERENCES American Diabetes Association. (2008). Position statement: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes – 2008. Diabetes Care, 31(Suppl 1), S12–S54. Retrieved June 5, 2008 from http://care.diabetesjournals.org/cgi/content/full/31/Supplement_1/S12#SEC3. Associated Press. (2008). Baby born after rare ovarian pregnancy. Retrieved June 3, 2008 from http://www.cleveland.com/ap/stories/index.ssf?/base/international-3/1212182354142550.xml&storylist=topstories. Betts D. (2006). A review of research into the application of acupuncture in pregnancy. Journal of Chinese Medicine , 80:50–55. Retrieved May 30, 2008 from EBSCO database. Brown KM. (2000). Management guidelines for women’s health nurse practitioners. Philadelphia: Davis. Callahan TL, Caughey AB, Heffner LJ. (2004). Blueprints: Obstetrics and Gynecology , 3rd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). (2010a). Births: Preliminary data for 2008. National Vital Statistics Reports , 58(16). Retrieved November 2, 2010, from http://www.cdc.gov. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). (2010b). Births: Final data for 2007. National Vital Statistics Reports, 58 (24). Retrieved November 2, 2010, from http://www.cdc.gov. Chan PD, Johnson SM. (2004). Gynecology and Obstetrics . Laguna Hills, CA: Current Clinical Strategies Publishing. Cunningham FG, Keveno KJ, Bloom SL, et al. (2005). Williams’ Obstetrics , 22nd ed. New York: McGraw-Hill. Davidson M, London M, & Ladewig P. (2008). Old’s maternal-newborn nursing and women’s health across the lifespan . (8th ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ:  Pearson Education, Inc. Davis M. (2004). Nausea and vomiting of pregnancy: An evidence-based review. Journal of Perinatal & Neonatal Nursing 18(4):312–28. Retrieved May 29, 2008 from EBSCO database. Dente K. (2007, November). Hydatidiform mole. CINAHL Nursing Guide , 1–2. Retrieved June 19, 2008 from EBSCO database. Franklin KA, Holmgren PA, Jönsson F, et al. (2000, January). Snoring, pregnancy-induced hypertension, and growth retardation of the fetus. Chest 117(1):137–41. Retrieved June 15, 2008 from ProQuest database. Getahun D, Ananth CV, Oyelese Y, et al. (2007). Acute and chronic respiratory diseases in pregnancy: Associations with spontaneous premature rupture of membranes. Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine , 20(9):669–75. Retrieved June 18, 2008 from ProQuest Nursing & Allied Health Source database. Gibson P & Carson M. (2010). Hypertension and pregnancy. Retrieved November 2, 2010, from Medscape. Griebel CP, Halvorsen J, Goleman TB, & Day AA. (2005). Management of spontaneous abortion. American Family Physician , 72(7), 1243–50. Retrieved April 20, 2008, from ProQuest. Hoover KW, Tao G, & Kent CK. (2010). Trends in the diagnosis and treatment of ectopic pregnancy in the United States. Obstetrics & Gynecology , 115(3), 495–502. Retrieved November 3, 2010, from EBSCO. Kleinhaus K, Perrin M, Friedlander Y, et al. (2006, August). Paternal age and spontaneous abortion. Obstetrics & Gynecology , 108(2):369–77. Retrieved June 16, 2008 from ProQuest database. Klossner NJ. (2006). Introductory Maternity Nursing . Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins. Leifer G. (2007). Introduction to Maternity and Pediatric Nursing , 5th ed. St. Louis: Saunders/Elsevier. Leifer G. (2005). Maternity Nursing: An Introductory Text , 9th ed. St. Louis: Elsevier/Saunders. Lowdermilk DL, Perry SE. (2006). Maternity Nursing , 7th ed. St. Louis: Mosby/Elsevier. McKinney E, James S, Murray S, Ashwill J. (2005). Maternal-Child Nursing , 2nd ed. St. Louis: Elsevier. Medina TM, Hill DA. (2006, February). Preterm premature rupture of membranes: Diagnosis and management. American Family Physician 73(4):659–65. Retrieved June 16, 2008 from ProQuest database. Moldenhauer JS, Sibai BM. (2003). Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. In J.R. Scott et al. (eds.), Danforth’s Obstetrics and Gynecology , 9th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins. National Center for Health Statistics. (2002). Births, final data: 2001. National Vital Statistics Reports , 51(2):1–103. Retrieved June 14, 2008, from http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr51/nvsr51_02.pdf. Puscheck EE. (2010). Early pregnancy loss. Retrieved November 2, 2010, from Medscape. Slama R, Bouyer J, Windham G, et al. (2005, May). Influence of paternal age on the risk of spontaneous abortion. American Journal of Epidemiology 161(9):816–23. Retrieved June 14, 2008 from ProQuest database. Smith C, Crowther C, Beilby J. (2002). Acupuncture to treat nausea and vomiting in early pregnancy: A randomized controlled trial. Birth: Issues in Perinatal Care 29(1):1–9. Retrieved May 30, 2008 from EBSCO database. Smith CA & Cochran S. (2009). Does acupuncture have a place as an adjunct treatment during pregnancy: A review of randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews. Birth , 36(3). Retrieved November 2, 2010, from EBSCO. Steele NM, French J, Gatherer-Boyles J, et al. (2001). Effect of acupressure by sea-bands on nausea and vomiting of pregnancy [abstract]. Journal of Obstetric, Gynecologic & Neonatal Nursing , 30(1):61–70. Retrieved May 30, 2008 from EBSCO database. Vankata C & Venkateshiah, S. (2009). Sleep-disordered breathing during pregnancy. Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine , 22, 158–168. GET THE WILD IRIS NEWSLETTER! Security Privacy Site Map Help Wild Iris Home EMS-CEU.com is a Wild Iris Medical Education Website Copyright © Wild Iris Medical Education, Inc. Photograph © Jon Klein Get discounts, special offers, and i