
St. Elizabeth Healthcare NKY (Northern Kentucky and Greater Cincinnati) - HealthTrak Medical Encyclopedia Symptom Navigator Wellness Tools Drug Notes Drug Interactions Use this extensive media-rich library to learn about what's going on in your body. Rheumatoid arthritis • Encyclopedia Home • Diseases A-Z Images Rheumatoid arthr... Rheumatoid arthr... Rheumatoid arthr... Synovial fluid Rheumatoid arthr... Care Points • ACL reconstruction - discha... • Ankle replacement - dischar... • Elbow replacement - dischar... Read More • Joint pain • Pleurisy • Anemia • Allergic vasculitis • Ulcers • Ankle replacement • Elbow replacement • Knee joint replacement • Hip joint replacement More Features • Printer-friendly version Rheumatoid arthritis Definition Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long-term disease that leads to inflammation of the joints and surrounding tissues. It can also affect other organs. Alternative Names RA; Arthritis - rheumatoid Causes The cause of RA is unknown. It is considered an autoimmune disease. The body's immune system normally fights off foreign substances, like viruses. But in an autoimmune disease, the immune system confuses healthy tissue for foreign substances. As a result, the body attacks itself. RA can occur at any age. Women are affected more often than men. RA usually affects joints on both sides of the body equally. Wrists, fingers, knees, feet, and ankles are the most commonly affected. The course and the severity of the illness can vary considerably. Infection, genes, and hormones may contribute to the disease. Symptoms The disease usually begins gradually with: Fatigue Loss of appetite Morning stiffness (lasting more than 1 hour) Widespread muscle aches Weakness Eventually, joint pain appears. When the joint is not used for a while, it can become warm, tender, and stiff. When the lining of the joint becomes inflamed, it gives off more fluid and the joint becomes swollen. Joint pain is often felt on both sides of the body, and may affect the fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, hips, knees, ankles, toes, and neck. Additional symptoms include: Anemia due to failure of the bone marrow to produce enough new red blood cells Eye burning, itching, and discharge Hand and feet deformities Limited range of motion Low-grade fever Lung inflammation (pleurisy) Nodules under the skin (usually a sign of more severe disease) Numbness or tingling Paleness Skin redness or inflammation Swollen glands Joint destruction may occur within 1-2 years after the appearance of the disease. Exams and Tests A specific blood test is available for diagnosing RA and distinguishing it from other types of arthritis. It is called the anti-CCP antibody test. Other tests that may be done include: Complete blood count C-reactive protein Erythrocyte sedimentation rate Joint ultrasound or MRI Joint x-rays Rheumatoid factor test (positive in about 75% of people with symptoms) Synovial fluid analysis Treatment RA usually requires lifelong treatment, including medications, physical therapy, exercise, education, and possibly surgery. Early, aggressive treatment for RA can delay joint destruction. MEDICATIONS Disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs): These drugs are the current standard of care for RA, in addition to rest, strengthening exercises, and anti-inflammatory drugs. Methotrexate (Rheumatrex) is the most commonly used DMARD for rheumatoid arthritis. Leflunomide (Arava) may be substituted for methotrexate. These drugs are associated with toxic side effects, so you will need frequent blood tests when taking them. Anti-inflammatory medications: These include aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen. Although NSAIDs work well, long-term use can cause stomach problems, such as ulcers and bleeding, and possible heart problems. NSAID packaging now carries a warning label to alert users of an increased risk for cardiovascular events (such as heart attack or stroke) and gastrointestinal bleeding. Antimalarial medications: This group of medicines includes hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) and sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), and is usually used in combination with methotrexate. It may be weeks or months before you see any benefit from these medications. Corticosteroids: These medications work very well to reduce joint swelling and inflammation. Because of potential long-term side effects, however, corticosteroids should be taken only for a short time and in low doses when possible. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors: These drugs block an inflammation-promoting enzyme called COX-2. This class of drugs was initially believed to work as well as traditional NSAIDs, but with fewer stomach problems. However, numerous reports of heart attacks and stroke have prompted the FDA to re-evaluate the risks and benefits of the COX-2s. Celecoxib (Celebrex) is still available, but labeled with strong warnings and a recommendation that it be prescribed at the lowest possible dose for the shortest possible duration. Talk to your doctor about whether COX-2s are right for you. BIOLOGIC AGENTS: Specific white blood cell modulators: These treatments effectively control inflammation. They include: Orencia (abatacept) - Given under the skin (subcutaneously) or into a vein (intravenously) once a month. Reduces the number of T-cells (a type of white blood cell). Rituxan (rituximab) - Given under the skin or into a vein twice a year. Reduces the number of B-cells (a types of white blood cell). Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors: This class of medications block a protein in the body involved in creating inflammation. They are given under the skin or directly into a vein. They include: adalimumab (Humira) etanercept (Enbrel) infliximab (Remicade) SURGERY Occasionally, surgery is needed to correct severely affected joints. Surgeries can relieve joint pain, correct deformities, and modestly improve joint function. The most successful surgeries are those performed on the knees and hips. The first surgical treatment is a synovectomy, which is the removal of the joint lining (synovium). A later alternative is total joint replacement with a joint prosthesis . In extreme cases, total knee or hip replacement can mean the difference between being totally dependent on others and having an independent life at home. PHYSICAL THERAPY Range-of-motion exercises and individualized exercise programs prescribed by a physical therapist can delay the loss of joint function. Joint protection techniques, heat and cold treatments, and splints or orthotic devices to support and align joints may be very helpful. Sometimes therapists will use special machines to apply deep heat or electrical stimulation to reduce pain and improve joint mobility. Occupational therapists can construct splints for the hand and wrist, and teach how to best protect and use joints when they are affected by arthritis . They also show people how to better cope with day-to-day tasks at work and at home, despite limitations caused by RA. Frequent rest periods between activities, as well as 8 to 10 hours of sleep per night, are recommended. Support Groups For additional information and resources, see arthritis support group . Outlook (Prognosis) Regular blood or urine tests should be done to determine how well medications are working and if drugs are causing any side effects. RA differs from person to person. People with rheumatoid factor , the anti-CCP antibody, or subcutaneous nodules seem to have a more severe form of the disease. People who develop RA at younger ages also seem to get worse more quickly. Many people with RA work full-time. However, after many years, about 10% of those with RA are severely disabled, and unable to do simple daily living tasks such as washing, dressing, and eating. In the past, the average life expectancy for a patient with RA could be shortened by 3-7 years. Those with severe forms of RA would often die 10-15 years earlier than expected. However, as treatment for rheumatoid arthritis has improved, severe disability and life-threatening complications have decreased considerably and many people live relatively normal lives. Possible Complications Rheumatoid arthritis is not solely a disease of joint destruction. It can involve almost all organs. A life-threatening joint complication can occur when the cervical spine (neck bones) becomes unstable as a result of RA. Rheumatoid vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) is a serious, potentially life-threatening complication of RA. It can lead to skin ulcerations and infections, bleeding stomach ulcers, and nerve problems that cause pain, numbness, or tingling. Vasculitis may also affect the brain, nerves, and heart, which can cause stroke, heart attack, or heart failure. RA may cause the the outer lining of the heart to swell (pericarditis) and cause heart complications. Inflammation of the heart muscle, called myocarditis, can also develop. Both of these conditions can lead to congestive heart failure. The treatments for RA can also cause serious side effects. If you experience any side effects, immediately tell your health care provider. When to Contact a Medical Professional Call your health care provider if you think you have symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. Prevention Rheumatoid arthritis has no known prevention. However, it is often possible to prevent further damage of the joints with proper early treatment. Stop smoking. Research shows that the risk of developing RA is nearly double for current smokers compared with non-smokers. Because RA may cause eye complications, patients should be have regular eye exams. References Harris ED Jr., Budd RC, Genovese MC, Firestein GS, Sargent JS, eds. Kelley's Textbook of Rheumatology . 7th ed. Philadelphia, Pa: Saunders Elsevier; 2005 Smolen JS, Aletaha D, Koeller M, Weisman MH, Emery P. New therapies for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Lancet . 2007;370(9602):1861-74. Review Date:
								2/22/2009 Reviewed By:
							Ariel D. Teitel, MD, MBA, Chief, Division of Rheumatology, St. Vincent’s Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. ©  1997- A.D.A.M., Inc.  Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Pay My Bill Pagar Su Factura Volunteer Foundation Donate Careers Contact Us Log in {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## Classes & Events Contact Us Directions Find a Doctor Join the Team Mobile App Outpatient Preregistration Outpatient Services Directory Pay My Bill Pagar Su Factura Send a Care Gram Send an E-Card St. Elizabeth Physicians Support Groups WebNursery® Use these frequently visited links to find important information, send greetings, and pay bills. 150th Anniversary About Us A Taste Of Health Awards Board of Trustees Community Benefits Corporate Compliance History Human Resources Locations Mission/Vision/Values News Room Partnership Requests Publications Quality Reporting Report to the Community We bring the best thinking from around the globe right here to Northern Kentucky.  Because the human specialists at St. Elizabeth Healthcare believe that each person in our community should have access to world class care throughout every stage of life. Specialty Services: Business Health Services Cancer Care Cardiac Care da Vinci Surgical System Foundation Hospice Human Resources The Family Birth Place Womens Wellness All Services: 320 CT Scanner Administration Alcohol and Drug Treatment Audiology and Speech Pathology Behavioral Health Diabetes/Endocrinology Domestic Violence Program Emergency Departments Employee Assistance Program Executive Physicals Family Medicine Residency Family Practice Center For Health Professionals Gift Shop Hand Therapy Health Ministries Holistic Health Imaging Intensive Care Units Laboratory Services Marketing/Public Relations Mobile Health NKY CARE - Womens Heart Nutrition Services Occupational Medicine Orthopaedics Pastoral Care Patient Resource Services Pediatric Services Physical and Occupational Therapy PrimeWise Pulmonary Rehab Quality of Care Rehabilitation Services Respiratory Care Skilled Nursing Facility Sleep Disorders Spine Center Sports Medicine Stroke Services SurgiCenters Vascular Institute Volunteer Services Weight Mgmt Center Wound Care Center Whether you are a patient in our care - or visiting one - we are committed to making every occasion at St. Elizabeth as simple and supportive as it can be.  Use these resources to accomplish the practical tasks involved with coming to our hospital. Billing Café/Bistro Contact Us Directions Facility Updates Financial Assistance Find a Doctor Gift Shop Health Plan Info HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices Living Will News Room Parking Patient Pricing Patient Services Pay My Bill Pagar Su Factura Pharmacy Quality of Care Safety or Quality Concerns Send an E-Card Support Groups Visiting of Patients WebNursery® Community Calendar Media Resources News Room Video Gallery Your community is our community.  In an effort to provide you with the most accurate information as efficiently and quickly as possible, view our calendar of events, news stories, and rich media content. ©
        2012
        St. Elizabeth Healthcare. All rights reserved. Contact Us News Di