
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 09:44:35 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aloe Vera Skin Care - Medical Advice Medical Advice Home | Submit | Search | RSS Welcome Guest Main Menu Home Login Register Submit Advice Guidelines Latest Advices Search Contact Us Medical Advice » Skin-care » Aloe Vera Skin Care Aloe Vera Skin Care By: Bonebrake Total Views: 172, Word Count: 518, Benefits of Aloe Vera in skin care are manifold. It reduces inflammation and accelerates wound healing. It is used to treat first degree burns, shrink warts, and lessen the pain of shingles. Aloe Vera juice is known to reduce ulcers and heartburn. It is also used for treating bleeding gums and denture somatitis. Aloe Vera gels and lotions are commonly used for the treatment of various skin conditions. Aloe containing creams, gels and ointments are used for burns, sun burns, wounds, cuts and frostbites. Aloe gel is also found in many shampoos, soaps, sunscreens, face wash, skin creams and cosmetics used to soothe, heal, protect and moisturize. Contents of Aloe Vera Aloe Vera plant contains about 99% of water with an average pH of 4.5 to 5. It contains about 75 different ingredients in solid form. Aloe Vera provides nutrition, anti-inflammatory action and also has antimicrobial activity. 1. Plant contains vitamins like B and its complex, vitamins A, C and F which nourishes skin 2. Enzymes like Carboxypeptidase has anti-inflammatory effects as it has analgesic effect 3. Magnesium lactate helps in case of many allergic reactions and has anti puritic effect of aloe Vera. 4. Mucilage or gel contains a lot of sugars in form of mono saccharides and poly saccharides. They enhance the immune system 5. Anthraquinones phenolic compounds are antimicrobial in nature. They reduce the formation of melanin and have powerful analgesic effects. 6. Lignin has a deep penetrative ability and can carry other active ingredients deep into skin to nourish the dermis 7. Saponins are soapy substances which are general cleansers with antiseptic properties that give clear skin 8. Salicylic acid is an aspirin like compound that has anti- inflammatory and antibacterial properties Uses of aloe in skin products 1. Aloe Vera gel is used as a base instead of water in skin products. It is used along with other natural ingredients to create natural formulas for your skin giving you a more radiant, youthful and healthier skin 2. The aloe gel is a good moisturizer as it is succulent. It slows down evaporation and draws moisture from air 3. Aloe penetrates deep down into the skin surface, stimulates skin tissues and revitalizes it 4. Aloe slows down the aging process by stimulating the fibroblast cells. Fibroblast cells manufacture collagen, which keeps the skin firm 5. It removes dead skin cells, wastes and toxins while it purifies skin pores 6. It is an excellent cleansing and detoxifying agent 7. It is used in facial to exfoliate, moisturize and for various skin treatments Aloe Vera is used in skin care since ancient times. It was supposed to be Cleopatra’s secret for beautiful skin. Aloe Vera greatly increases the availability of oxygen to the skin. It is known to strengthen skin tissues and is widely used in skin cleansers and lotions. Skin care products with aloe are fortified with vitamins and collagen to maintain skins elasticity and suppleness. Aloe has anti burning properties and when combined with SPF makes an excellent suntan lotion. About the Author Bone brake is a well known allergist. His practice encompasses naturopathy, herbal medicine and nutrition. Skin conditions treated include eczema, psoriasis and acne. He explored the treatment of allergies and allergic based conditions such as asthma, eczema and hayfever are by using different diets and techniques such as blood type diet, rotation diet, exclusion diet and kinesiology Advice Rating: Not yet rated Login to vote Comments No comments posted. Add Comment Enter the c