
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 04:59:31 GMT
Server: IBM_HTTP_Server
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Language: en-US

» Latest News » Wellness Center Children's And Teen's Health Fitness Health At Work Mental Health Basics Brain and Memory Conditions and Disorders Psychology and Behavior Therapies Nutrition Seniors' Health Women's Health Men's Health Healthy Kitchen » Conditions » Functional Medicine Printable version of the article Effects of Ginkgo biloba in patients suffering from mild to moderate dementia Effects of Ginkgo biloba in patients suffering from mild to moderate dementia Ginkgo biloba is the oldest living tree species. More than 400 published studies have been conducted using Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE), making it one of the most popularly studied herbal medicines. GBE is a powerful aid to circulatory problems, particularly when there is a lack of blood flow to the brain. Poor circulation of blood to the brain is associated with memory loss, vertigo, tinnitus, disorientation, headaches, and depression, especially in the elderly. GBE also has strong antioxidant properties, which may protect both the cardiovascular system and central nervous system from damage and the effects of aging. For instance, many clinical studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of GBE in the treatment of patients with age-associated memory and cognitive impairment as well as dementia and Alzheimer's disease. In particular, Dr. S. Kanowski and colleagues sought to determine the efficacy of GBE in patients with Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. They conducted a study in which 156 patients received either a daily oral dose of 240 mg GBE or placebo for 24 weeks. Upon completion of the study, researchers noted a 22% improvement in attention and memory functions in patients who received GBE. This is compared to a 7% improvement in the placebo group. In addition, GBE was found to be safe and well tolerated. Dr. Kanowski and colleagues concluded in Pharmacopsychiatry that GBE "could be used to improve the patients' quality of life and/or to postpone the loss of independence and the necessity for full-time care for as long as possible." Pharmacopsychiatry 1996;29(2):47-56. Advanced Nutrition Publications ©2002 More Articles: Natural Support for Neurologic Health: A Multiple Pathway Approach Absorption, tolerability, and effects of coenzyme 