
Cymbalta (duloxetine HCl): Official Site Sign In Prescribing Information Safety Information and Boxed Warning Medication Guide Información en Español Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Depression Understanding Depression The Impact of Depression Talking With Others About Depression Cymbalta and Depression Information for Friends and Family Generalized Anxiety Disorder Understanding Generalized Anxiety Disorder The Impact of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Talking to Your Doctor About Generalized Anxiety Disorder Cymbalta and Generalized Anxiety Disorder Information for Friends and Family Diabetic Nerve Pain Understanding Diabetic Nerve Pain The Impact of Diabetic Nerve Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Diabetic Nerve Pain Cymbalta and Diabetic Nerve Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Managing Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Understanding Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Low Back Pain Managing Chronic Low Back Pain Understanding Chronic Low Back Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Low Back Pain Information for Friends and Family Fibromyalgia Understanding Fibromyalgia How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Talking to Your Doctor About Fibromyalgia Cymbalta and Fibromyalgia Information for Friends and Family Learn About Cymbalta Información en Español How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work What to Expect Resource Center Important Safety Information Side Effects Commonly Asked Questions About Cymbalta Contact Us About Lilly Understanding Fibromyalgia What Causes Fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia Symptoms Treatment Options How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Talking to Your Doctor About Fibromyalgia Finding a Physician for You Partnering With Your Healthcare Provider Fibromyalgia Doctor Discussion Guide Making the Most of Your Treatment Cymbalta and Fibromyalgia Information for Friends and Family First Steps First Steps Homepage How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Taking Care of Yourself Treatment Options Learn About Cymbalta Making the Most of Your Treatment Fibromyalgia Treatment Initiation Guide Resources for Support Fibromyalgia Doctor Discussion Guide First Steps First Steps Homepage Learn About Cymbalta See How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work Making the Most of Your Treatment Fibromyalgia Treatment Initiation Guide Resources for Support Fibromyalgia Doctor Discussion Guide First Steps First Steps Homepage Understanding Fibromyalgia What Causes Fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia Symptoms Fibromyalgia Treatment Options Fibromyalgia Information Guide First Steps First Steps Homepage Fibromyalgia Symptoms How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Finding a Physician for You Partnering With Your Healthcare Provider Fibromyalgia Information Guide Fibromyalgia Doctor Discussion Guide Home > Fibromyalgia > Talking to Your Doctor About Fibromyalgia > Finding a Physician for You Finding a Physician for You Management for pain associated with fibromyalgia may involve working with a variety of healthcare professionals. This can be the case whether you have been diagnosed with fibromyalgia or you are trying to determine if you have the condition. In addition to a variety of physicians, you may also see physical therapists, chiropractors, and pain management specialists as part of your care. It's important to make sure you are comfortable with the people you select as part of your healthcare team. Working with someone who is familiar with your background and condition can help you make sure you get the care you need. It also can help ensure that changes in your situation or condition are properly addressed. Generally, most patients may see different kinds of healthcare providers for their fibromyalgia. Depending on each patient's situation, an individual may see one or several of these physicians as part of their treatment. Primary care physicians: Primary care physicians, or PCPs, usually provide first contact with persons with undiagnosed health concerns. PCPs may include general practitioners, family practitioners, internists, and obstetricians/gynecologists. Rheumatologists: A rheumatologist is a physician who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of rheumatologic, inflammatory, and autoimmune disorders. Some rheumatologists conduct research to determine the cause and better treatments for these diseases. Rheumatologists are often the first specialists that patients with fibromyalgia are referred to. In addition to the help that physicians can provide, there are a number of organizations and support groups available to help those with fibromyalgia. For more information about some of them, please refer to our resources section . Create your Fibromyalgia Doctor Discussion Guide to help you discuss your symptoms with your healthcare provider. If a friend or loved one has been diagnosed with fibromyalgia, learn more about being a caregiver . Indications Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in four short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in three short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic osteoarthritis pain and chronic low back pain. Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Prescribing Information | Safety Information and Boxed Warning | Medication Guide | Multimedia Help | Glossary | Site Map | Patient Assistance Program Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Copyright DD61726-012012A ©Lilly USA, LLC 
 2012. All rights reserved. This site is intended for U.S. residents age 18 and over. Cymbalta is a registered trademark of Lilly USA, LLC. No Yes This Site: 