
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Cnection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Date: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 03:00:08 GMT
Connection: close
Set-Cookie: last_browse_page=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.etsy.com%2Fshop%2Fsweetcreekherbalcare; path=/; domain=.etsy.com
Set-Cookie: last_browse_page=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.etsy.com%2Fshop%2Fsweetcreekherbalcare; path=/; domain=.etsy.com

Tattoo Soap  Aloe Honey par sweetcreekherbalcare sur Etsy Bénéficiez de toutes les fonctionnalités du site en activant le support de JavaScript. En savoir plus . Etsy Acheter Vendre Communauté Communauté Evénements Online Labs Teams Forums Blogs Blog Français Etsy News Manuel du Vendeur Mobile Aide S'inscrire Se connecter Fait main Fait main Vintage Fournitures Tous les articles Membres Boutiques Rechercher Panier Fermer S'inscrire Se connecter Créer votre compte Etsy Connectez-vous avec Facebook C'est simple et rapide. Nous ne l'afficherons jamais sans votre consentement. or Prénom Votre nom sera affiché publiquement sur Etsy. Ces champs sont facultatifs. Nom Femme Homme Je ne veux pas le dire Email Une confirmation sera envoyée sur votre adresse email. L'email de confirmation sera envoyé à %email%. Mot de passe Confirmer le mot de passe Nom d'utilisateur Autres suggestions : Utilisez notre suggestion ou indiquez la votre En cliquant sur "S'inscrire", vous confirmez votre acceptation des conditions générales d'utilisation et de la politique de protection de la vie privée . Inscrivez-vous à la newsletter trouvailles Etsy. Email ou nom d'utilisateur Mot de passe Rester connecté Vous avez oublié votre mot de passe ? Accueil › sweetcreekherbalcare › soaps, standard Favori Vous aimez cet article ? Ajoutez-le à vos favoris pour le retrouver plus tard. Tattoo Soap:  Aloe Honey de sweetcreekherbalcare Tattoo soap is a work contrived by my son, a tattooist, and myself.  The concerns with a new tattoo are many, infection being a primary concern.  This lovely lathering, gently, long lasting babassu soap recipe is enhanced with aloe vera, local honey, calendula in macadamia nut oil, and tea tree oil.  Aloe vera and the calendula oil are touted as having healing properties; while the honey is naturally antibacterial, and the tea tree oil is naturally antifungal. While this soap was formulated for new tattoos, I also realized this soap will be a good summer soap against briar scratches, insect bites, and even possibly the poisonous plants.  For landscapers, gardeners, and those who spend the bulk of their warmer weather outside, this is a great soap for keeping your skin healthy and free from those wounds that like to linger. Ingredients:  coconut oil, organic virgin olive oil, organic sunflower oil, sodium hydroxide in distilled water, babassu oil, castor oil, avocado oil, aloe vera juice, calendula in macadamia nut oil, local honey, natural oil of tea tree Packaged as @4.5 oz. bar with full disclosure label. For a variety of the soaps offered in my shop, please use this link: http://www.etsy.com/shop/sweetcreekherbalcare?section_id=5660543 Why these ingredients: Coconut oil contributes abundant rich creamy lather to soap, lathering even in the hardest water, even in seawater; good cleansing properties, mildness, a hard and long lasting bar, and emolliency. It provides quick fluffy lather that also rinses clean. Organic virgin olive oil creates a long lasting, non drying mild soap with creamy lather – and no other soap making oil contributes its unique set of characteristics. Organic sunflower oil is used as an effective substitute for olive oil; provides stable lather and conditioning to soap; provides a high vitamin e content. Sodium hydroxide (also called lye) is required to make soap.  A caustic alkaline interacts with the fatty acids of the soap making oils, through a process, to become soap.   I often run into this slogan on the internet: “No lye, no soap, no lie”.  There is detergent and there is soap.  Lye is required to make soap. Babassu oil has similar properties to coconut oil and is used similarly.  More and more, babassu oil is increasingly being used as a replacement for coconut oil.  Babassu oil comes from the kernels of the Babassu palm and is a non-drying oil    It is high in lauric and myristic acids. These acids have melting points that are close to the human body temperature Castor oil provides creamy fine bubble lather and plenty of glycerin; it produces a clean, light colored soap with a stable lather; drying and hardening well with no odor. Avocado oil is high in unsaponifiables (molecules that will not turn into soap); therefore, many properties of this oil may come through in soaps with this ingredient, which are vitamins A, B1, B2, D, and E, pantothenic acid, essential fatty acids, proteins, lecithin, and amino acids; healing to skin and scalp, a rich, heavy oil working best with other oils; and is moisturizing, nourishing, regenerative, antibacterial, and antifungal. Aloe vera is a well known healing and soothing agent for damaged, dry skin. It is soothing and healing for burns, skin irritations, and raw open wounds.  A soothing and healing sap, it penetrates the skin deeply providing valuable nutrients and promotes cell repair.  It is famous for its moisturizing and soothing properties, as well as for its ability to aid in healing. Calendula The petals have been found to be anti-inflammatory. Carotenoids provide the distinct yellow to orange of the petals (beta-carotene, lycopene, violaxanthin and lutein).  The infused oil is highly recommended for dry, mature skin as well as for skin sores, diaper rash and sunburn. The infused oil may be applied directly on the skin or may be added to handcrafted soaps and toiletries. Macadamia Nut oil contains benefits of vitamin A, (iron), vitamins B1 - (thiamine), B2 - (riboflavin), B3 - (niacin), B6 (pyridoxamine) and benefits of vitamin E, a powerful antioxidant which protects cells from damaging free radicals.  It is moisturizing, toning and soothing for dry skin, young skin, mature skin, oily skin, acne and sunburns. It penetrates into the skin so quickly; it’s often called “vanishing oil”.   Having the benefits of vitamin E, it supports proper cell function and cell regeneration, helping to heal small wounds and skin irritations, fade scars, stretch marks, reduce fine lines and wrinkles.   It’s often found in face care, baby care and lip care products.   In soap: Macadamia nut specialty oil produces a stable and conditioning lather. It emulsifies easily, is slightly thicker than most carrier oils and can be expensive. Use it as a small percentage in your homemade soap recipes. Honey is softening, healing, and binds other ingredient s together; it is a disinfectant able to heal minor skin wounds and chapped or very dry skin or hair; it soothes and adds softness to skin.  It increases lather in soap. Oil of Tea Tree fights lung, genital and urinary, vaginal, sinus, and mouth infections.  It counters fungus and viral infections, such as herpes, shingles, chicken pox, candida, thrush, and flu.  It is credited with treating diaper rash, fungus, acne, wounds, and insect bites.  It protects the skin from radiation burns during cancer therapy.  It is one of the most nonirritating antiseptic oils; although this varies with the species.   The scent is said to build strength.  It benefits acne, athlete's foot, candida, chicken pox, cold sores, colds, corns, cuts, flu, insect bites, itching, migraine, oily skin, ringworm, sinusitis, sores, spots, urethritis, warts, and whooping cough.  WATCH as Tea Tree Oil may cause sensitization in some. This information has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This information is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Avez-vous des questions ? Contacter le vendeur. Pays d'expédition : Etats-Unis Les frais de port en EUR peuvent varier. Pays de destination coût avec un autre article Etats-Unis $ 2,50 USD € 1,94 EUR $ 1,35 USD € 1,04 EUR Autres pays $ 8,45 USD € 6,54 EUR $ 4,25 USD € 3,29 EUR Canada $ 3,00 USD € 2,32 EUR $ 1,35 USD € 1,04 EUR Iles mineures éloignées des Etats-Unis $ 2,50 USD € 1,94 EUR $ 1,35 USD € 1,04 EUR Méthodes de paiement Mandat cash Chèque Autre (voir description) Vous avez une question ? Contacter le vendeur Voir les conditions générales de vente Afficher les détails de l'article Masquer les détails de l'article Signaler ce item à Etsy A propos de cet article Fait main 

									
			
						   par sweetcreekherbalcare Tags Beauté et bien-être Savon Savon camée tattoo soap tea tree oil soap tea tree soap summer soap aloe honey soap aloe soap honey soap healing soap protective soap soap to heal tattoos gentle mild soap gardeners soap powerful soap Matériaux coconut oil organic virgin olive oil organic sunflower oil sodium hydroxide in distilled water babassu oil castor oil avocado oil aloe vera juice calendula in macadamia nut oil local honey natural oil of tea tree Ajouté le 29 mar. 2012 Fiche produit n° 96308340 Articles de la boutique en relation avec celui-ci $ 5,50 USD Environ € 4,26 EUR Les taux de change sont actualisés deux fois par jour.
                        Le prix final peut varier légèrement. Changer la devise Favori Only 1 available Boutique sweetcreekherbalcare Natural Herbal Shampoo, Soap, Lip Balms, and More 195 articles Ajouter la boutique aux favoris Voir qui a ajouté cette boutique à ses favoris Vendeur Kathleen Eidson, TN Favoris Cercles : 199 Evaluations: 3474, 100% pos. Contact Article Ajouter l'article aux favoris Voir qui a ajouté cet article à ses favoris Tweeter Epingler 31 vues 0 admirateurs $ 5,50 USD Environ € 4,26 EUR Les taux de change sont actualisés deux fois par jour.
                        Le prix final peut varier légèrement. Changer la devise Favori Only 1 available © 2012 Etsy, Inc. Fait main à New York Blog A propos Contacter Presse Développeurs Carrières Termes Vie privée Copyright Français / € Euro / France Bonjour ! Nous vous proposons les préférences régionales suivantes : Français , € Euro EUR , France Show this message in English Vos préférences ont été sauvegardées. Vous pourrez toujours modifier ces paramètres régionaux en cliquant en bas de chaque page. W