Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Mon, 20 Jun 2011 16:22:05 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "622a7a31662fcc1:283"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:47:35 GMT
Connection: close

Pneumonia in Children - Keep Kids Healthy Bookstore Site Map Contact Us Help About Us What's New? Search this site: Advanced Search Main Menu Pediatrics Parenting Experts Ask the Pediatrician Index of Topics Pediatric Problems Parenting Tips Symptom Guide Nutrition Immunizations Medicine Cabinet Safety First Aid Web Links Online Resources What's New Reviews Growth Charts Online Forums Vaccine Schedule Baby Names Guide BMI Calculator Lead Screening Product Recalls Height Calculator Newsletters: Subscribe to get free news, tips and updates. Recommend Us tell a friend about us or email this page to a friend Main > Common Infections > Pneumonia Pneumonia Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that is accompanied by a cough and difficulty breathing. If your child has a cough, even if it is a productive cough with green mucus, it is unlikely to be pneumonia if he is not having any difficulty breathing. Your child may also have a productive cough because of mucus draining down the back of his throat. If your child is coughing and having difficulty breathing, then he should be evaluated by his physician. If he does have pneumonia then he will need to take an antibiotic as treatment for the infection. Your doctor will probably be able to diagnose pneumonia by listening to your child's chest with a stethoscope, but he may also need an x-ray. Mild cases of pneumonia will be treated at home with an oral antibiotic, but more serious infections may require hospitalization. Web keepkidshealthy.com Submit a Link | printer friendly format Buy books, CDs, videos, toys and electronics at amazon.com buy your sports and outdoor gear at fogdog.com Contact Us Copyright © 1999 - 2011 Keep Kids Healthy, LLC All rights reserved. disclaimer | privacy policy | site index | online bookstore | help Updated: June 15, 2000 Special Offers: Free Web Pages Shop Online: amazon.com | drugstore.com | eBay! | Also visit: ADHD advice and information Expert Pediatrician - child health and parenting advice About Pediatrics - Expert Pediatric Parenting Advice Father's First Year - read about Dr. Iannelli's new book Important disclaimer : The information on keepkidshealthy.com is for educational purposes only and should not be considered to be medical advice . It is not meant to replace the advice of the physician who cares for your child. All medical advice and information should be considered to be incomplete without a physical