Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding

Blog | Mattos Medical Group | Tampa Acupuncture | (813) 871-2950 Try Our New Mobile App Today! For iPhone | For Android Home About us Commercials Radio Show Videos Testimonials Aesthetic Services Weight Loss Microdermabrasion Facials/Peels Carboxitherapy HCG Medical Services Auto Injury Primary Care IV Nutritional Therapy Tampa Chinese Herbal Medicine Tampa Acupuncture Cupping Moxibustion Tui Na Specialties Acupunture Auto Injury Chinese Herbal Pharmacy IV Therapy Weight Loss Staff Management Practitioners Dr.K Mattos bio Dr.Cheesman bio Testimonials Contact Customer Survey Blog Online Store Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture On November 18, 2011, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , Injection Therapy , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture By: Acufinder Staff Writer A neurological disorder refers to a problem with the nervous system, which is a complex, sophisticated system that regulates and coordinates the body’s activities. Nerve pain can arise from trauma, inflammation, stroke, disease, infection, nerve degeneration, exposure to toxic chemicals, and nutrient deficiencies. Nerve pain [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE FOR INSOMNIA On June 28, 2011, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , Traditional Chinese Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Nothing is worse than not sleeping well. That is what I hear every day from people who suffer from insomnia. When we can’t sleep well, nothing is right. We are tired, moody, irritable, our muscles are stiff, our head hurts, we can hardly think or function. Furthermore, lack of adequate sleep can cause serious health [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response Therapeutic effect on combined acupuncture and Chinese medicine for reflux esophagitis On February 18, 2011, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Combined acupuncture and Chinese medicine can remarkably elevate the plasma gastrin and motilin levels in those with , regulate the gastro–esophagus motility, increase the lower esophageal sphincter pressure and thus prevent regurgitation of food. Please email us at info@mattosmedicalgroup.com or call us at 813.871.2950 to schedule to your consultation 0 Comments Leave A Response Enhance Your Endocrine Health with Acupuncture On February 17, 2011, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , Traditional Chinese Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos The endocrine system is responsible for hormonal functions in the body and produces thirty distinct hormones each of which has a very specific job to do. This system controls your physical growth, mood, hormone output, reproduction, mental functionality, and immune system. When not working properly you become more susceptible to disease and your ability to [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response Effectiveness of Traditional Chinese ‘Gua Sha’ Therapy in Patients with Chronic Neck Pain On February 16, 2011, 
									in Acupuncture , Gua sha , Traditional Chinese Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Gua sha has beneficial short–term effects on pain and functional status in patients with chronic neck pain. Significant treatment effects were also found for pain at motion, scores on the neck disability index (NDI), and dimensions of quality–of–life. The treatment was safe and well tolerated. Source: Pain medicine MDLinx Please email us at info@mattosmedicalgroup.com or call [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response Telemundo Commercial On October 12, 2010, 
									in Uncategorized , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Every Saturday at 9:30 am on Telemundo- Hablando de Salud! 0 Comments Leave A Response Treating High Cholesterol with Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM) On September 14, 2010, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , Traditional Chinese Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos High cholesterol is a medical condition in which the amount of cholesterol in one’s bloodstream exceeds a normal or recommended level. Cholesterol is a complex organic compound that occurs naturally in the body and is used to produce bile acids, vitamin D, and a number of hormones needed by the body to function normally. When [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response Best way to relieve Headaches Through Chinese Medicine! On September 7, 2010, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Whereas your standard, over-the-counter painkillers simply address the symptoms of headaches, Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) treatments aim to address their root cause, held to be a deficiency of energy and restricted blood flow in the head. If you have nagging, chronic head pain, TCM offers a number of natural treatments. TCM employs herbal remedies and acupuncture, [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response Are you suffering from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome? On August 31, 2010, 
									in Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine , IV nutritional therapy , Traditional Chinese Medicine , 
									by Kenneth Mattos A Chinese Medicine Approach to Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Chronic fatigue immune deficiency syndrome is a disabling, poorly understood multi-system illness. In the United States it has been referred to as the “yuppie flu.” The symptoms are an array of neurological, nueromuscular, and immunological abnormalities combined with cognitive impairment, disabling fatigue, and recurrent bouts of flu-like [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response Auto Accidents and Acupuncture at MMG On July 18, 2010, 
									in Acupuncture , Auto Accidents , Cupping , Injection Therapy , Intersegmental Traction , Modalities , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Acupuncture is the process of stimulating specific points on the body by inserting very fine needles into the skin and underlying tissues. This procedure unblocks the flow of Qi along energy pathways and resores balance to the body. This has the effect of releasing various chemical messengers into the brain (neurotransmitters such as serotonin) that [...] 0 Comments Leave A Response « Previous Entries Customer Survey Recent Posts Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE FOR INSOMNIA Therapeutic effect on combined acupuncture and Chinese medicine for reflux esophagitis Enhance Your Endocrine Health with Acupuncture Effectiveness of Traditional Chinese ‘Gua Sha’ Therapy in Patients with Chronic Neck Pain Testimonials "I hurt my shoulder from working out too hard, so I went to see Dr.K got some Tuina, cupping done which draws out all the bad toxin by sucking onto the pores, then I got acupuncture done. Looks worse than it is. its not bad, 3 treatments later im feeling 100% back to normal. Thanks Dr.K" Allen T. - Tampa, FL 9/3/10 "Thank you, thank you for an AMAZING facial Rosa! My face felt so much softer, more supple and my wrinkles were definitely less noticable afterward. You're knowledge of the products and friendly atmosphere allowed me to relax and enjoy the moment, even falling asleep twice! I look foward to my next facial and plan to bring others with me to experience your fantastic clinic!!" Michelle S. - Lutz, FL 3/20/10 "Had the most amazing acupuncture therapy today at Mattos Medical Clinic! Was so comforable, I fell asleep and I feel much better now. Thank you Dr. Mattos!!" Michelle S. - Tampa, FL 9/10/10 Read more›› Tags abdominal pain Acupuncture Acupuncture Injection therapy AITs anti-inflammatory Arthritic pain Arthritis Calcium Pyruvate Chinese Herbal Medicine Chronic low back pain Chronic Pain common cold Community style acupuncture cough crushed nerve Cupping diet emotional Fat Burning Film star Ginseng HCG headache hormone imbalance Human Chorionic Gonadotropin hypertension indigestion Inflammation Injection Therapy Injury insect and poisonous snake bite. IV nutritional therapy IVs Krebs Cycle low back pain nutrition painful menstruation painkillers Pain relief physical activity Qi and blood stasis spinal joints spiritual stomach ache Weight Loss Translator Translate to: Arabic Bulgarian Catalan Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Croatian Czech Danish Dutch English Filipino Finnish French German Greek Hebrew Hindi Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Latvian Lithuanian Norwegian Polish Portuguese Romanian Russian Serbian Slovak Slovenian Spanish Swedish Ukrainian Vietnamese Powered by Google Translate . Find Me On Get this widget for your own blog free! Go To Top » Looking for something? Use the form below to search the site: Still not finding what you're looking for? Drop a comment on a post or contact us so we can take care of it! Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Visit our friends! A few highly recommended friends... Acuhut.com – MMG altMD.com – MMG Healthgrades.com-MMG Holisticunited.com-MMG Local healers Spoke.com-MMG Therapynext.com – MMG Voice over services Yelp – Tampa "Twitter messages not available." — drkennmattos Mattos Medical Group | Tampa Acupuncture | (813) 871-2950 Pages Home About us Aesthetic Services Medical Services Specialties Staff Testimonials Contact Blog Online Store Stay In Touch Site RSS Feed Twitter Facebook LinkedIn More Thanks for dropping by! Feel free to join the discussion by leaving comments, and stay updated by subscribing to the RSS feed . © 2010 Matt