
S.C. DHEC: Bureau of Disease Control: School Exclusion List: 1st – 12th Grades Skip to content South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control - www.scdhec.gov South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control We promote and protect the health of the public and the environment. Bureau of Disease Control Acute Epidemiology CHESS for External Providers Health Alert Network Immunization & Prevention STD/HIV Program Surveillance and Technical Support TB Control A-Z Disease Resources Fact Sheets Bureau of Disease Control School Exclusion List: 1st – 12th Grades Information for Parents A School Exclusion List indicates for which illnesses a  child must be kept out of (excluded from) school.  It also indicates when medical notes are  needed for children to return to school after certain illnesses. The information on this page applies to  students in 1st through 12th grades who are not considered to be Medically  Fragile. If needed, your child’s  school will give you information on Exclusion Lists for children in 3, 4 or 5  year old Kindergarten, or students in 1st through 12th grades who are Medically  Fragile. If you think that your child has an illness that can be spread to others,  please keep him or her home from school.   Contact your doctor or clinic. Links for Parents School Exclusion: Quick Reference for Parents Conditions that do not always require  exclusion Read  the full School Exclusion List ( pdf ) Read  the School Exclusion Brochure for Parents ( pdf ) Questions to Ask When Your Child is Sick: Does your child’s illness keep him/her from comfortably  taking part in activities? Does your sick child need more care than the staff can  give without affecting the health and safety of other children? Could other children get sick from being near your child? If the answer to any of these questions is “Yes,” please keep your child  out of school or childcare. Frequently asked Questions about when sick children should stay home from  school: When should sick children stay home from school? If your child feels too sick to go to school, please keep  him home.  Children should also stay home  if they have symptoms of illnesses that they might be able to spread to others. Does my child need to stay home when he has a mild cold? Most children with mild colds who have no fever and who feel  well enough to go to school do not need to stay home.  Most colds spread in the 1-3 days before  children show symptoms such as a runny nose or slight cough. How long will my child need to stay home if she is sick? The inside of this brochure explains how long children  should stay home after they become ill with excludable conditions. Would my child have to stay out of school if he was not sick? Sometimes children will also have to stay home from school if  they are exposed to some diseases, especially diseases preventable by vaccines .  Your school or DHEC will discuss this  exclusion with you. What does my child need to come back to school? The list below or in this brochure ( pdf ) shows whether a Medical Note or Parent Note is required to return  to school after exclusion for illness. What about other activities? Students with illnesses spread by close contact, like lice,  scabies, shingles, or staph or strep skin infections, may not be allowed to  participate in some sports or physical education activities. Help your child stay healthy and ready to learn. We hope that your child never has to miss school because of  illness or disease.  The best protection  from disease is prevention.  You can help  prevent many illnesses by making sure your child receives immunizations and by  making sure your child washes his or her hands often. School Exclusion List:  A Quick Reference for Parents Please keep your child home from school if he or she  has one of the conditions or illnesses listed below.  Call your child’s school to let them know why  your child is absent.  Send the  appropriate note when your child returns to school. Chicken Pox / Varicella Children with chicken pox may return with a Parent Note once  all of the sores and blisters are dried or scabbed over, or if there are no  scabs, until no new sores appear. Diarrhea: For most kinds of diarrhea (defined as 3 or more  loose stools in 24 hours), students in 1st through 5th grades should stay home  until diarrhea stops, or until a doctor clears the child to return to school.  Your child can return with a Parent Note when the diarrhea has stopped.  Older children in 6th through 12th grades with  diarrhea do not have to stay home, unless they are spreading illness in the  school setting, or have diarrhea with blood or mucus. Students of any age must have a Medical Note to return to  school after having diarrhea that contains blood or mucus. Students who can use the restroom or whose stools are  contained in diaper-type underwear do not have to be excluded if the diarrhea  is known to be from a non-contagious condition, or if it continues after the  child completes antibiotics for a diarrhea-causing illness. A medically fragile child or child who needs help with  toileting may be excluded for fewer than 3 episodes of diarrhea if her  condition makes it hard for her caretakers to maintain sanitary conditions in  the classroom. Diarrhea from Campylobacter, E. Coli, Giardia, Norovirus, Rotavirus,  Salmonella or Shigella : Students of any age are excluded for one of these  infections.  Your child may return to  school with a medical note for the following conditions: Campylobacter, Norovirus, Rotavirus, Shigella and most types of Salmonella After diarrhea stops. E. coli For the most severe type of E. coli , students of any  age must be out of school until the diarrhea stops and 2 lab tests taken 24  hours apart test negative for E. coli O157:H7. Giardia When diarrhea stops or child has taken antibiotics for at  least 24 hours. Salmonella typhi (Typhoid fever) After 24 hours without diarrhea, if a doctor clears  the child to return. Fever by itself Keep your child home for a fever 101 degrees or higher by  mouth, or 100 degrees or higher if taken under the arm.  Your child can return to school with a Parent  Note when the fever is gone. Fever with Rash, Behavior Change or other Symptoms Students with a fever should be out of school if they have  signs of severe illness such as a rash, change in behavior, earache, vomiting  confusion, sore throat or irritability. German Measles / Rubella / 3 Day Measles Keep your child home until 7 days after rash starts.  He may return with a Medical Note. Head Lice School-age with head lice, who are not medically fragile ,  should be sent home at the end of the school day .  Your child may return with a Parent Note  after her first treatment with a school-approved lice-removal product.  Your child’s school may recommend options for  head lice treatment. Hepatitis A / Yellow Jaundice Children with acute hepatitis A may return with a Medical  Note 1 week after the start of the jaundice. Hib ( Haemophilus influenzae Type B) Students with proven Hib infection need to be out of school  until at least 24 hours after they complete their antibiotics. A Medical Note  is required to return. Impetigo If your child has dry, honey-colored crusty sores that  cannot be covered, he will be sent home at the end of the school day until 24  hours after starting antibiotics. If the sores are weepy, oozing or wet or cannot be covered,  the student will be sent home immediately. He may return after 24 hours of  antibiotics, if the sores have stopped oozing and are starting to get  smaller. A Medical Note is needed to return to school. Influenza or Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) A student with ILI or the flu will be excluded for a fever  of 100 with cough and/or sore throat until he is fever free for at least 24  hours without  any fever medicines. Measles / Red Measles / 10 Day Measles Children with measles can return with a Medical Note 4 days  after the rash begins, if they have no fever and feel well enough to  participate in regular school activities. Meningitis A student with signs of meningitis (high fever, rash, stiff  neck) must remain out of school until a healthcare provider says that the  student may return. Mononucleosis Children with “mono” can return to school when cleared by a  healthcare provider. Mumps Children with mumps can return with a Medical Note 5 days  after the beginning of swelling. Pink-eye / Conjunctivitis Students in 1st through 5th grades whose eyes are red or  pink, and who have eye pain and reddened eyelids, with white or yellow eye  discharge or eyelids matted after sleep may have Purulent Conjunctivitis.  They should not be in school until they have  been examined and treated.  A Medical  Note is required to return. Students in 6th through 12th grades with Pinkeye do not have  to stay home unless there is a recommendation from the health department or the  child’s healthcare provider. Rash Students who have a rapidly spreading rash or a rash with  fever or behavior change are excluded   from school immediately.  A  Medical Note is required to return. Ringworm 1st — 5th graders with ringworm of the scalp must remain out  of school until they have begun treatment with a prescription oral  antifungal medication .  Your child  may return with a Medical Note. 1st — 5th graders with ringworm of the body may return with  a Parent Note once they have begun oral or topical antifungal treatment, unless  the affected area can be completely covered by clothing. Older students with ringworm of the head or body do not have  to remain out of school unless they are spreading illness at school. Scabies Children with scabies should be out of school until treatment/medication  has been applied.  A Medical Note is  required to return. Shingles Keep children home who have shingles lesions/sores/blisters  that cannot be covered.  Your child may  return with a Parent Note once the lesions are dried/scabbed. Staph or Strep Skin Infections (includes MRSA) A child with a draining sore, boil, or abscess that  cannot be covered, or with sores that ooze through and soak dressings, should  remain home. She may return once the draining stops, or if the drainage  (oozing) can be contained in the dressing, so that no one else comes into  contact with the drainage.  Because  treatments vary, there is no requirement for numbers of hours on an  antibiotic. “Strep Throat” / Streptococcal Pharyngitis Your child with “Strep throat” can return to school  with a Medical Note 24 hours after starting  antibiotics if there is no fever. Tuberculosis (TB) A child with TB should be kept home until the doctor  treating the TB writes a Medical Note that says that the child is no longer  contagious. Whooping Cough / Pertussis Children with whooping cough can return to school with a  Medical Note after completing 5 days of prescribed antibiotics, unless directed  otherwise by DHEC or your school nurse. Children with the following conditions do not have to be excluded from  school, if they feel well enough to participate in regular school activities : Bronchitis Canker Sores Colds, without fever Cold Sores Croup CMV: Cytomega­lovirus Ear Infection Fifth Disease Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Illnesses from Tick Bites Lyme Disease Malaria MRSA, if child is only a carrier Pinworms Pneumonia Rash without fever or behavior change Red eye without yellow or green discharge, fever, or matting RSV: Respiratory Syncytial Virus Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever Roseola Thrush Warts, including Molluscum  contagiosum Urinary Tract Infection West Nile Virus Yeast Diaper Rash If you have any questions about the School  Exclusion List, please contact your child’s school or your local health department Revised June 13, 2011 About DHEC | Accessibility | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Freedom of Information | Jobs | Reader Downloads | State Employee Directory | SC.gov South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control    2600 