
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 00:32:45 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cinnamon India Herbs India States | India Religions | India Cricket | India Soccer | India Hockey | India Archery | India Tennis | Indian Monuments Indian Festivals | India History Timeline | Indian Heroes | Indian Wild Life | Live TV Streaming | Bollywood Film Stars Tamil Film Stars | Malayalam Film Stars | Who is who Kerala Indian Herbs Home Aloe Vera Andrographis Paniculata Argyreia Nervosa Artocarpus Ashwagandha Asparagus Racemosus Bacopa Basil Bhringaraj Boswellia Cedrus Centella Asiatica Cinnamon Cydonia Cymbopogon Datura Flax Ginger Glebionis Segetum Gymnema Sylvestre Harmala Alkaloid Hedychium Heterophyllus Hibiscus Abelmoschus India Gooseberry Juglans Regia Liquorice Morinda Moring Oleifera Mucuna Pruriens Mulberry Nelumbo Nucifera Papaver Piper Pterocarpus Marsupium Punica Rhubarb Safed Musli Sandalwood Sapindus Sarsaparilla Solanum Tinospora Cinnamon Cinnamon (Cinnamomum verum, synonym C. zeylanicum) is a small evergreen tree 10-15 meters (32.8-49.2 feet) tall, belonging to the family Lauraceae, native to Sri Lanka and South India. The bark is widely used as a spice due to its distinct odour. In India it is also known as "Daalchini". The leaves are ovate-oblong in shape, 7-18 cm (2.75-7.1 inches) long. The flowers, which are arranged in panicles, have a greenish color, and have a distinct odor. The fruit is a purple one-centimetre berry containing a single seed. Its flavour is due to an aromatic essential oil which makes up 0.5 to 1% of its composition. This oil is prepared by roughly pounding the bark, macerating it in sea-water, and then quickly distilling the whole. It is of a golden-yellow colour, with the characteristic odour of cinnamon and a very hot aromatic taste. The pungent taste and scent come from cinnamic aldehyde or cinnamaldehyde and, by the absorption of oxygen as it ages, it darkens in colour and develops resinous compounds. Chemical components of the essential oil include ethyl cinnamate, eugenol, cinnamaldehyde, beta-caryophyllene, linalool and methyl chavicol. Uses Cinnamon bark is widely used as a spice. It is principally employed in cookery as a condiment and flavouring material, being largely used in the preparation of some kinds of desserts, chocolate, spicy candies, tea, hot cocoa and liqueurs. In the Middle East, it is often used in savoury dishes of chicken and lamb. In the United States, cinnamon and sugar are often used to flavour cereals, bread-based dishes, and fruits, especially apples; a cinnamon-sugar mixture is even sold separately for such purposes. Cinnamon can also be used in pickling. Cinnamon bark is one of the few spices which can be consumed directly. In medicine it acts like other volatile oils and once had a reputation as a cure for colds. It has also been used to treat diarrhea and other problems of the digestive system. In the media, "cinnamon" has been reported to have remarkable pharmacological 
      effects in the treatment of type II diabetes. However, the plant material 
      used in the study was actually cassia, as opposed to true cinnamon (see 
      cassia's medicinal uses for more information about its health benefits). 
      Cinnamon has traditionally been used to treat toothache and fight bad breath 
      and its regular use is believed to stave off common cold and aid digestion. © Deepthi.com , 2003-2005. All Rights Reserved. Contact webmaster@deepthi.com for c