
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 18:38:18 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
X-Pingback: http://www.mcrhypnotherapy.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

mcrhypnotherapy | Just another WordPress site HOME BLOG CONTACT Most Smokers Want To Quit – It’s Easy With Hypnosis Posted on February 6, 2012 by admin MOST SMOKERS WANT TO QUIT – SO WHY DONT THEY? I don’t need to tell you how bad smoking is for you, your health and your finances – you already know that. As a gentle reminder, smoking: •	Reduces fertility, libido and energy levels •	Increases risk of heart disease and cancer •	Increases the aging process and decreases sex appeal •	Is expensive (costs c. £1896 a year for a 20 a day habit) •	Puts others at risk (your children, family etc) from secondary inhalation •	Causes social isolation Even thought you know the risks associated with smoking you still continue to smoke. Why? What Makes Smoking So Difficult To Quit? Most smokers want to stop smoking but find it difficult or even scary to quit. Reasons why smokers find it difficult to quit include:- •	Their addiction to nicotine •	Their smoking habit has become second nature to them – it is an automatic response •	The benefits they gain from smoking – relaxation, increased confidence or concentration etc •	Their fear of failure – they have tried and failed so many times before •	Their fear of withdrawal, cravings and sense of loss once they quit Whilst all the above points seem convincing reasons to continue to smoke they are easy enough to overcome. In order for you to successfully become a permanent non-smoker you have to let go of the myths you hold about stopping smoking being difficult and start to see that it can be easier than you ever thought possible! Letting Go Of The Smoking Myths If you find yourself using one of the excuses below as a reason to continue your smoking habit – then think again as most are simply not true, however you have built up a convincing theory that they are! 1.	I dread the withdrawal symptoms and cravings – nicotine is addictive but only stays in our system up to 3 days and this is the period we find easiest to resist cravings and stop. Also nicotine withdrawal is so minimal that the physical symptoms are barely, if, noticeable at all! 2.	Smoking helps me concentrate – actually smoking decreases concentration as it leaves you feeling agitated thus reducing focus. 3.	It makes me feel confident/sexy – most people detest smoking and know that smokers use cigarettes as a ‘crutch’ so you appear weak willed and definitely not confident! And the smoky breath – need I say more on the sexy front? 4.	It helps me relax – nicotine is a stimulant and has the reverse effect! In fact you may well have feelings of well being for 2 minutes during your cigarette which is then followed by 2 days of increases agitation! The promise of relaxation never materialises. 5.	It’s my choice – as nicotine is addictive you are more likely to be smoking out of addiction than choice! 6.	It keeps me slim – it does not help weight loss and it can actually cause cellulite. 7.	I have failed so many times before – the methods you used failed – not you. According to the biggest research into smoking cessation, hypnosis is better than any other method of smoking cessation available today . New Scientist Vol. 136. It has a 1000% higher success rate than will power alone! So What is Hypnosis And Is It Safe? Hypnosis is a state of mental and physical relaxation and heightened awareness and is a state that you enter naturally many times a day from watching TV, to driving to work, to washing the dishes. As it is a natural state, not only is it safe but it is also highly beneficial too. During hypnosis you will hear everything that is being said and will be aware of your surroundings – you will not do or say anything that you do not want to. You remain completely in control at all times. How Does Hypnotherapy Help You Quit Smoking? Your smoking habit is at the subconscious level of your mind so we need to break it at the subconscious level through hypnosis. As hypnosis allows us to communicate directly with the subconscious mind we are able to permanently break all the associations you have  built up between you and smoking, such as having a cigarette with a cuppa, or when stressed – allowing you to rid yourself of your smoking habit and become a non-smoker once more. What Makes Hypnosis So Successful in Smoking Cessation? As mentioned above your smoking habit lies at the subconscious level so hypnosis allows you to break it there rather than relying on will power (conscious mind) alone which has only a 6% success rate. With hypnosis, you will feel no sense of sacrifice or pain instead you will feel elated and full of pride as you have achieved something all smokers want to achieve – success – you have become a happy, natural and permanent non-smoker! So something that you thought would be a struggle to do, with the help of hypnosis, turns out to be so ridiculously easy! And permanent too! Still Not Convinced? (You Should Be!) Take a look at the success rate of other smoking cessation therapies below and you can draw your own conclusions. Single Session Hypnosis	60% ** Acupunture	24% Nicotine Replacement Therapy 	10% Will Power	6% ** Note: results can be higher depending on hypnotherapy techniques used.This is certainly the case at MCR Hypnotherapy – where results are 20% higher than the average. Stop Smoking Hypnosis can provide so much more benefits that quitting smoking alone! So if you want to feel healthier and happier – then give me a call today! •	A better health and longer life •	Increased libido and fertility •	Fresher, younger looking skin •	More energy and vitality •	A sense of achievement and pride •	Feeling more positive, calm and confident •	An increased sense of well-being •	More freedom of choice Posted in STOP SMOKING HYPNOSIS | Tagged cigarettes , help with , hypnosis , hypnotherapy , manchester , nicotene patches , quit , smoking cessation , stop smoking manchester | Leave a comment How Much is Your Weight Loss Costing You? Posted on January 31, 2012 by admin Having read an article recently about a family who had undergone gastric band surgery to the tune of £40,000 on the NHS, I felt inspired to put pen to paper, or rather fingers to keys, to write! Whilst the family of 4 (mother, father and 2 daughters) have had success after the surgery, shedding a combined weight of 44 stones, the real question most people will be asking is – is it really OK to spend over £40,000 of tax payers money on something that has a less than satisfactory success rate (especially in the long term) and has been known to fail? Add to that the risks to the patient of undergoing surgery – is it not a better and safer solution to turn to one of the many successful and PERMANENT weight loss solutions available today at a fraction of the price? Especially bearing in mind the financial state of the NHS today? As a hypnotherapist who specializes in weight loss (and who also struggled for years with her own weight) and offers various weight loss programs including the Virtual Gastric Band Hypnosis – I could not believe that the NHS have not explored all the options available before committing to life threatening surgery for weight loss. Furthermore if you, unlike this family, are picking up the tag for gastric band surgery, it’s not a low cost option! Now hold on I hear you say – you have just mentioned that the actual gastric band does fail and has a poor success rate when it comes to long term weight loss but you still offer the safer, non invasive and much cheaper option -the “Virtual” Gastric Band! That is correct I do offer the Mind Band (Gastric Band Hypnosis) – which is a permanent weight loss solution. The Mind Band involves fitting a “virtual” gastric band to reduce food intake just like the actual gastric band, however it goes one crucial step further. By resolving the underlying motivation behind overeating my clients gain permanent weight loss results. Why the Mind Band has proved so successful (and why it differs from those who just offer to fit a virtual gastric band) is that it tackles the underlying reason why the individual is overweight. This is one of the main reasons why diets fail (that and starvation!) and why weight loss for many remains a short term thing. As humans, we were designed to eat only when hungry and stop eating the moment we become physically full. If we did this there would be no issue with obesity in the UK today. Unfortunately most of us no longer use food solely for nutritional purposes – that’s right – we now use food to change how we feel. We are ‘emotional’ eaters. Have you ever found yourself eating when bored, lonely, frustrated or sad and not when truly hungry? Yes? Then you are more than likely going to put on weight. If you eat when emotionally hungry your body will never feel satisfied. Why? Because no amount of food is going to change the way you feel. Food will not relieve your boredom or make you feel happy, loved or worthy; however, you have created a believable illusion that food does make you feel better when realistically it leaves you feeling worse and eventually looking worse too! Overeating is a symptom of some emotional issue and if you resolve the cause of the symptom (your overeating) then not only will you lose weight but you will keep it off too. So the main focus of any weight loss intervention should be locating the motivation behind your emotional overeating – something gastric band surgery does not do unfortunately, along with many other weight loss options available today. With the help of analytical hypnotherapy you can locate and resolve the cause of your symptom (overeating) thus providing permanent weight loss results. Suggestion hypnotherapy can then be used to reprogram your mind and incorporate healthier, more positive eating habits and lifestyle changes into your everyday life, further ensuring long lasting results. And the price of this successful, permanent and safe method of weight loss is a fraction of the price of undergoing risky gastric band surgery. So next time you’re thinking about going under the knife – seriously consider the safer options available to you. Hypnotherapy works – so let it work for you. (When enquiring about Weight Loss Hypnosis or Gastric Band Hypnosis ask the hypnotherapist whether they resolve the underlying cause of your overeating – it could be difference between short term and long term weight loss success.) Posted in WEIGHT LOSS HYPNOSIS | Tagged dieting , gastric band , gastrid band hypnosis , hypnoband , lose weight , manchester , surgery , vitual gastric band , weight loss , weight loss hypnohterpy | Leave a comment Hypnotherapy For IBS Posted on January 24, 2012 by admin Hypnotherapy and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) Research carried out in Manchester has found hypnotherapy to be an effective long term treatment for IBS. IBS is a common disorder affecting up to 15% of the population at any one time and can prove difficult to treat. Researchers from Withington Hospital in Manchester found hypnotherapy helped 71% of patients with it’s effect lasting up to five years after treatment. The research, based on 200 patients, is published in the journal Gut. http://gut.bmj.com/ The patients were given up to 12 one hour weekly sessions and were asked to assess their symptoms, quality of life and levels of anxiety and depression before and after treatment – and for up to six years after completing the course. The majority of patients found that hypnotherapy reduced the severity of their IBS symptoms with results lasting for many years. Even those who said the effect began to wear off over time commented that the deterioration in their condition was only slight. Cost effective Hypnotherapy also reduced levels of anxiety and depression too though the results were not as long lasting. (NOTE: Depression was not treated specifically and the improvement was a positive ‘side effect’ of the IBS hypnotherapy treatment). Furthermore patients also said they required fewer drugs for their IBS with less visits needed to their doctors too. The researchers say the sustained improvements in most of the patients cannot be attributed to other treatments as fewer than 1 in 10 patients used any other from of treatment after completing their hypnotherapy sessions. Critics say hypnotherapy is an expensive treatment but when you weigh up the reduction in the cost of medication plus the relief the patients get, hypnotherapy comes in at a competitive price! Lead researcher Dr Wendy Gonsalkorale told BBC News Online: “While other studies have shown that symptoms have improved by the end of the course of treatment, the real significance is our finding that these effects are sustained after treatment sessions have finished, rather than patients just reverting back to their original state. “We firmly believe that hypnotherapy should be available as a standard treatment for all patients with IBS.” Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged causes , hypnotherapy , ibs , irritable bowel syndrome , management. , manchester , treatment | Leave a comment Hello world! Posted on October 5, 2010 by admin Welcome to WordPress. This is your first post. Edit or delete it, then start blogging! Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Search for: Recent Posts Most Smokers Want To Quit – It’s Easy With Hypnosis How Much is Your Weight Loss Costing You? Hypnotherapy For IBS Hello world! Recent Comments Archives February 2012 January 2012 October 2010 Categories STOP SMOKING HYPNOSIS Uncategorized WEIGHT LOSS HYPNOSIS Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org © MCR Hypnotherapy - E-commerce Website