Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy | T.L.T | N.L.P | About 
              Us | Contact | Home | Anxiety 
                      and Stress Depression Panic 
                      Attack Phobias Personal 
                      Breakthrough Stop 
                      Smoking Training 
                      and Seminars Weight 
                      Control The 
                      Mind Body Connection. How does the way we think affect our 
                      physical well being. To learn more...... Click Here From 
                      time to time I will be adding articles of interest to see 
                      whats new Click Here You 
                      have the following choices to assist you to Stop Smoking If you feel you would like Hypnosis to assist you and you 
                      can see your way clear to attend for Personal Consultations 
                      I would recommend Clinical Hypnotherapy. And remember, the 
                      first half hour of your first Consultation is FREE! The 
                          following are my thoughts on quitting and what you should 
                          be aware of It's not as hard as you think. If you are honest with 
                          yourself and look at the facts about smoking, it can 
                          become a pleasure to remove this habit from your life. Remember, thousands have succeeded so why not you now? Remember you are not giving up something; you are giving 
                          yourself a wonderful gift! The gift to be free of poison. 
                          This is your one chance to make a fresh start and look 
                          after your body. Many don't take that chance and then 
                          it is to late. A lot has been said overtime about what smoking does 
                          to your body and unfortunately many keep thinking, it 
                          will never happen to me. Well it can and it can sooner 
                          than you think. Life is precious. Take the opportunity 
                          now! Grasp the chance to quit while you can- while you 
                          are in front- otherwise it maybe to late! They say if you could take the poison out of one cigarette 
                          and put it in an injection there would be enough to 
                          kill a horse! 2 drops would kill a pigeon. And how many 
                          cigarettes do you smoke a day? You maybe saying there are to many pressures or stresses 
                          right now to stop now and give up your cigarettes. Let me say this, "If you are smoking, this in itself 
                          is a very great pressure. Every day is a gamble and 
                          your life is at stake. By getting nicotine out of your 
                          life now, other things will become easier to handle. 
                          You will feel better about yourself and you will have 
                          more energy, more money and you will be more socially 
                          acceptable and you will have accomplished something 
                          from which you can feel proud now." Many use the excuse that they may gain weight to justify 
                          their continuing to smoke. Even if you do gain a little, 
                          the fact that you will be more active and will get more 
                          exercise should counteract any weight gain. Remember, also that overeating, and smoking, causes 
                          weight gain. While you are quitting. Look at it as an investment. 
                          Once you have quit for one hour, you have invested this 
                          hour in becoming a healthier person. Now, invest one 
                          more hour. Continue to add to your investment hour by 
                          hour. It will grow and become more valuable as the hours 
                          go by. You will begin to see and feel the rewards from 
                          this investment more and more. Protect and guard it 
                          just as you would a treasure. Whilst you are quitting I would recommend that you keep 
                          yourself busy. Change your habits and keep busy. It 
                          is a whole new beginning so do different things. Find 
                          new things to enjoy. Go bike riding, dancing, swimming 
                          and really enjoy life. This can be the time to indulge 
                          yourself. The time to feel proud of yourself. Remember any discomfort you experience in the first 
                          2 weeks will definitely come to an end and just think 
                          of the benefits you will have As a result of quitting 
                          now! Remember, every minute you were sucking on cigarettes 
                          they were sucking on you. They were sucking the very 
                          life out of you. Now you can have a new life! A life 
                          free of ingesting all that poison. Drink lots of liquids to help flush the poison out of 
                          your system. Orange juice is good because smoking depletes 
                          the vitamin C content in our bodies. If you cannot do it on your own 
                          Remember, I can help! Let me say, there are often various reasons for people 
                          smoking and often it is just so important to deal with 
                          those reasons first, otherwise anything else ends up 
                          only being a band aid. That is why I prefer Clinical 
                          Hypnotherapy; however, having said that I also believe 
                          our diet can play a very important part. Remember, It can be easier with Clinical Hypnotherapy. 
                          It is not a long process- make up your mind and do it 
                          now! Some 
                            of The Benefits of quitting Smoking! Others 
                            have! So why not you? Just 
                                ponder for a moment over the following list of 
                                benefits of what will happen to you, when you 
                                stop smoking. After 
                                    20 mins Blood pressure and pulse rate return 
                                    to normal. After 8 hrs the nicotine and carbon monoxide 
                                    levels in the blood reduce by half, Your 
                                    oxygen levels return to normal. Within 
                                    24 hrs Carbon monoxide is eliminated from 
                                    your body and lungs start to clear out the 
                                    mucus and other smoking debris that has built 
                                    up over time. After 
                                    48 hrs all the nicotine will have left the 
                                    body. Your 
                                    taste and smell will be much improved. Within 
                                    72 hrs you will notice that your breathing 
                                    will be easier. Your bronchial tubes will begin to relax and 
                                    your energy levels will improve. Between 
                                    2 & 12 weeks your circulation will improve. For 
                                    a period between 3-9 months any coughs, wheezing 
                                    and breathing problems improve as lung function 
                                    is improved by up to 10%. Within 5 yrs risk of heart attack diminishes 
                                    to approximately half that of a smoker. Within 10 yrs risk of lung cancer diminishes 
                                    to about half that of a smoker. Within 
                                    10 years risk of heart attack diminishes to 
                                    the same as a person who has never smoked.] After 
                                    about 15 years your risk of getting lung cancer 
                                    or having a heart attack is only slightly 
                                    higher than someone who has never smoked. Aren't 
                                all these good enough reasons for you stopping 
                                now? If not for yourself, do it for your family! It 
                                is easy with Clinical Hypnotherapy If 
                                you feel you need little extra help Why not utilise the benefits of Clinical Hypnotherapy 
                                NOW? Just 
                                Phone The Alternative Centre 07 5571 1505 for an appointment NOW! Or email me PS. 
                                For free tips on quitting please see my articles 
                                page back 
                      to top Home Hypnotherapy I N.L.P I T.L.T I About Us DISCLAIMER: The information of this Website is for educational 
                              purposes only and is not intended to replace the 
                              advice of physicians or health care practitioners. 
                              It is also not intended to diagnose or prescribe 
                              treatment for any illness or disorder. Anyone already 
                              undergoing physician-prescribed therapy should seek 
                              the advice of his or her doctor before reducing 
                              the dosage or stopping such treatment Copyright