
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Language: en-US
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1
P3P: CP="CAO DSP COR CURa ADMa DEVa PSAa PSDa IVAi IVDi CONi OUR OTRi IND PHY ONL UNI FIN COM NAV INT DEM STA"
Cteonnt-Length: 99932
Cteonnt-Length: 99932
Cache-Control: max-age=325
Expires: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 09:25:07 GMT
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 09:19:42 GMT
Connection: close

Circumcision tied to lower prostate cancer risk - HealthPop - CBS News Thriver Health Blog HealthPop HealthPop CBSNews CBS News.com Browse News Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Healthwatch Moneywatch Tech Sports Opinion Popular Photos Programs CBS Evening News CBS This Morning 48 Hours Mystery 60 Minutes Sunday Morning Face the Nation Up to the Minute Blogs Political Hotsheet Crimesider HealthPop Investigates Celebrity Circuit WorldWatch EconWatch The Feed Tech Talk Coop's Corner Crossroads Fast Draw Eye on Parenting Health and Wellness Log In | Register Your Profile | Log Out HEALTHPOP.COM Diet Mental Health Celebrity More Topics Sex and Relationships Kids & Family Heart Cancer Diabetes About Healthwatch Scroll Left Scroll Right World Afghan attack suspect at Leavenworth 1 of 9 Crimesider Ravi guilty of bias in Rutgers spycam case 2 of 9 Sports Andy Pettitte making comeback with Yankees 3 of 9 CBS Evening News U.S. nuclear expert recounts Fukushima disaster 4 of 9 Political Hotsheet Both sides see opportunity in women's health fight 5 of 9 Gallery Celebrity Circuit 6 of 9 Political Hotsheet Santorum: Obama not enforcing online porn laws 7 of 9 Celebrity Circuit Alaskan beauty queen goes bald for good cause 8 of 9 Celebrity Circuit Clooney released after protest arrest in D.C. 9 of 9 March 12, 2012 10:43 AM Print Text Circumcision tied to lower prostate cancer risk By Monica DyBuncio Topics News , Kids and family , Men , Cancer , Research (Credit:
AP) (CBS News) To circumcise or not to circumcise? New research suggests circumcision may protect against prostate cancer, adding a new reported benefit to the procedure. Circumcision can help prevent inflammation and infection, including sexually transmitted infections that may cause prostate cancer, the study found. Controversial circumcision ritual led to infant's death from herpes, says death certificate Circumcision rates slipping, says CDC: Why? Judge slices circumcision ban from San Francisco ballot For the study, researchers tested about 3,400 men and found that men who had been circumcised before their first sexual intercourse were 15 percent less likely to develop prostate cancer than uncircumcised men. The study, led by researchers at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, is published in the journal Cancer . Circumcision, the surgical removal of the foreskin from the penis, is usually performed shortly after birth. Studies have found the procedure is linked with a reduced risk for HIV and other sexually transmitted infections. Still, circumcision is somewhat controversial, as some argue it's risky and unnecessary. How does circumcision help prevent sexually transmitted infections? The procedure toughens the inner foreskin and gets rid of the space that may help pathogens survive. "These data are in line with an infectious/inflammatory pathway which may be involved in the risk of prostate cancer in some men," study author Dr. Jonathan Wright, assistant professor of urology at the University of Washington School of Medicine, said in a written statement . "Although observational only, these data suggest a biologically plausible mechanism through which circumcision may decrease the risk of prostate cancer. Future research of this relationship is warranted." Should all men be circumcised to reduce their prostate cancer risk? "At the end of the day, we feel there's risks and benefits, and it's up to the parents to decide what is in the best interests of their child," Dr. Andrew Freedman, a pediatric urologist and a member of the circumcision task force at the American Academy of Pediatrics, told MyHealthNewsDaily . The takeaway message of the study is that sexually transmitted infections may play an important role in the development of prostate cancer, so the relationship between circumcision and STDs should be noted. The American Academy of Pediatrics, in its official policy statement , says circumcision has potential health benefits, including reduced risk bladder infections and transmission of HIV/AIDs and other sexually transmitted diseases. But the academy said there were potential downsides, pointing to anecdotal reports of reduced sexual sensation in older men and evidence it can lead to painful complications like bleeding and infections. WebMD has more on circumcision . 10 Photos Prostate Cancer Self-Defense: Nine Deadly Myths View the Full Gallery » 10 10 Comments + Add a Comment by PUTYCAT March 13, 2012 3:09 AM EDT I AGREE , BE CLEAN , AND RESPONSIBLE Reply to this comment by matchrestore March 12, 2012 9:57 PM EDT I was circumcised as an infant. I'm not sure of the exact reasoning for me being circumcised, but I was born right at the peak of circumcision rates in the United States, and in the region where it was most common. I am unhappy with the decision to have me circumcised. If I have a son, I will not have him circumcised, because it takes away his right to bodily integrity. There is no way for me to know exactly what I am missing, but I have begun the process of manually restoring my foreskin. Sensitivity has increased because the keratinization that inevitably occurs on the glans of a circumcised ***** is reversing. Keratinization occurs because of constant exposure of the glans to clothing and drying of the glans. In addition, circumcision removes a large amount of nerve endings. While there will inevitably be people that encourage you to circumcise him for hygienic or health reasons, hygienic and health problems related to the foreskin are so rare and easy to avoid and treat without circumcision. This article states that it reduces the risk for HPV (a fact that in itself is disputed), but Gardasil is much more effective. The bottom line though is that once a boy is circumcised, it cannot be undone. It is a permanent alteration to his body. If he chooses later in life, when he is able to understand what circumcision is, to get circumcised he will still have that choice if you leave him intact. Reply to this comment by newsieee March 12, 2012 2:13 PM EDT This is ridiculous. Science shows that circumcising girls also reduces the risk of HIV infection, and yet no one is saying that's a good idea. At the end of the day, its wrong. Let each man decide on his own whether he wants it, when he's 18 and over. There is a whole industry that makes money off of infant circumcision, and I bet their money funded this "research." Reply to this comment by frizzy140 March 12, 2012 3:07 PM EDT you are a fool; circumcision is a religious right in many faiths. Also, it was created for hygienic reasons. While not necessary in this day and age is still makes the ***** more attractive (ask any woman) PS: secret infant circumcision market/industry? i think you've gone off the deep end, bet you think Obama is a Muslim too by newsieee March 12, 2012 2:12 PM EDT This is ridiculous. Science shows that circumcising girls also reduces the risk of HIV infection, and yet no one is saying that's a good idea. At the end of the day, its wrong. Let each man decide on his own whether he wants it, when he's 18 and over. There is a whole industry that makes money off of infant circumcision, and I bet their money funded this "research." Reply to this comment by louis10003 March 12, 2012 1:21 PM EDT This is another example of biased news giving, which explains why many people turn to news sources such as Al Jazeera or RT news which is not mixed with personal agendas. What the headline of your article should have said is "Circumcision is in the decline in America". Because that is what all these articles about circumcision and the supposed health benefits of it are about, how to keep circumcision 'alive'? But you know like every other human being that circumcision done to a baby boy or girl is wrong. Now THAT would have been an article about truth. Reply to this comment by MikeCollin March 12, 2012 1:16 PM EDT There have been so many studies, everything from Herpes, HIV, HPV, cancer, UTI's foreskin infections, and foreskin problems such as Phimosis, Paraphimosis etc. each time they are published the anti-circ internet trolls start complaining that these studies are flawed and false. Its about time these trolls start realising that there are benefits to circumcision and parents are going to want to pass on these benefits to their sons... . Circumcision is not a cure all but it is considered by many to be a preventive measure. Yes condoms provides protection from these viruses, but you are living in a fantasy world if you think for one second that people always use them. Have you ever checked into unplanned pregnancies for example, especially among young people, i think this speakes for itself. If anything can be done to help give someone and better defence against any of these problems then maybe it should be considered more and parents should start requesting it more often. Reply to this comment by hope4agape March 12, 2012 12:56 PM EDT This story is factually incomplete ...I.E. "new study " This is actually the 5th study of the effects on circumcision and STD prevention. like "We hope these data will ultimately result in policy changes in recommending circumcision for young boys or adult men to decrease the rates of infection with HIV, HPV and herpes," said the lead author of the Ugandan study, Dr. Thomas Quinn, a senior investigator in infectious diseases at the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and a professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore. Results of Quinn's study appear in the March 26 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine." Only differnce is HPV has now been directly linked to Cancer Reply to this comment by zBriGuy March 12, 2012 12:32 PM EDT Do you know what else reduces the risk of STDs and any cancers associated with them? Safe sex. Education is the answer, not genital mutilation. It's their body, their choice. Reply to this comment by Evirustheslaye March 12, 2012 11:08 AM EDT yah, and hacking off your feet reduces the risk of experiencing foot fungus,but good hygiene is just as effective without the required mutilation. Reply to this comment Add a comment Subscribe to this comment thread by email SUBMIT Click here to add another comment. The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service . Click here to read the Rules of Engagement . Comment reply Subscribe to this comment thread by email Submit Cancel The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service . Click here to read the Rules of Engagement . Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use , you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense: Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language Spam: Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content Off-topic: Commentary unrelated to the storyline Comments (optional): Report Cancel E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to: Your e-mail address: Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it. Send e-mail Cancel Popular Now in Health 27 Photos 25 drunkest countries in the world 19 Photos Retouched or not? Tool spots photos' too-flawless features 23 Photos Cancer in the 1800s: 23 rare photos (GRAPHIC) Pink slime in ground beef: What's the big deal? Study: Eating white rice daily ups diabetes risk U.S. to unveil graphic anti-smoking campaign Antibiotic overuse means knee scrape can be fatal USDA: Schools get to decide on "pink slime" beef Clinic: Pizza for vasectomy during March Madness Cadmium consumption may lead to breast cancer, study says CDC: Deaths from gastroenteritis double in U.S. Christina Hendricks: Too Big for Hollywood? Group claims hot dogs cause "butt cancer" Can Curry Fight Cystic Fibrosis? Death With Dignity advocate uses law to die Skin cancer self-exam: What to look for (PHOTOS) Task force releases new guidelines for cervical screening New prostate cancer study fuels PSA test debate Things You Didn't Know About Your Penis Can low-cost jewelry harm your kids? Latest CBS News Headlines In Sweden, cash is king no more Israelis laugh about Iran nukes, government threat Soldier accused of killings was family man Analysis: NKorea launch would risk ties with US Popular CBS News Stories on Facebook Dharun Ravi Verdict: Guilty of bias, invading privacy, in Rutgers-Clementi spycam case Invisible Children Co-Founder Jason Russell detained for public drunkenness and masturbation, says report Underwater dog photos go viral Most Discussed Stories on CBS News Afghan attack suspect at Leavenworth Obama film aims to re-write health care history Karzai lashes out at U.S. over shooting probe Dispute impacts women's health care in Texas Gingrich calls on Romney to stop negative ads Follow HealthPop RSS » Facebook » Twitter » Most Popular on CBS News Stories More » 01 GOP freshmen, big-bucks donors hobnob at resort 02 Afghan attack suspect at Leavenworth 03 10 Best Countries To Live and Work Abroad 04 Ravi guilty of bias in Rutgers Clementi spycam case 05 Obama film aims to re-write health care history Videos More » 01 Evening News Online, 03.16.12 02 Teen's Facebook Sex Scam 03 Khan Academy: The future of education? 26 Photos | View Gallery » Arrest made in missing Alaska barista case 16 Photos | View Gallery » Nick Clooney 23 Photos | View Gallery » Skydiver aims to jump from 23 miles, go supersonic 25 Photos | View Gallery » George Clooney in Washington 20 Photos | View Gallery » George Clooney arrested at Sudan embassy protest Scroll Left Scroll Right More » Better Information. Better Health. Cholesterol Concerns? Get Personalized Advice More Medical Tests & Tools CBS News on Facebook CBS News Copyright © 2012 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. CBSNews.com Site Map Video Site Map Mobile/WAP Site Help Contact Us CBS Bios Careers Internships Development Programs Topics China United Nations Social Security North Korea Terrorism Capital Punishment Immigration Gay Marriage Disaster in Japan Foreclosures Debt Crisis Massacre in Norway Election 2012 Marijuana Rupert Murdoch 9/11: Tragedy Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Email Newsletters YouTube CBS Mobile Building You a Better Morning CBS This Morning "CBS This Morning," anchored by Charlie Rose, Gayle King and Erica Hill, airs weekdays from 7 to 9 a.m. ET and at the same time in other time zones. Learn more... Visit other CBS Interactive sites: Select Site BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet Privacy P