
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 07:13:02 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatment for muscle spasms and cramps All about muscle spasms and cramps causes of muscle spasms symptoms of muscle spasms diagnosis of spasms treatment for spasms What's the treatment for spasms? Most cases of simple cramps require no treatment other than patience and stretching. Gently and gradually stretching and massaging the affected muscle may ease the pain and hasten recovery. More prolonged or regular cramps may be treated with drugs such as carbamazepine, phenytoin, or quinine. Fluid and salt replacement, either orally or intravenously, is used to treat dehydration. Treatment of underlying metabolic or neurologic disease, where possible, may help relieve symptoms. Cramps may be treated or prevented with Gingko (Ginkgo biloba) or Japanese quince (Chaenomeles speciosa). Supplements of vitamin E, niacin, calcium, and magnesium may also help. Taken at bedtime, they may help to reduce the likelihood of night cramps. More information on muscle spasms What're muscle spasms? - Muscle spasms and cramps are spontaneous, often painful muscle contractions, including types of abnormal muscle activity other than sudden painful contraction. What causes muscle spasms? - Spasms can be caused by certain mechanisms within the brain. Possible causes include stroke, multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy. What're symptoms of muscle spasms? - The pain of a muscle cramp is intense, localized, and often debilitating coming on quickly. Contractures develop more slowly. How're spasms diagnosed? - Abnormal contractions are diagnosed through a careful medical history, physical and neurological examination, and electromyography. What's the treatment for spasms? - Most cases of simple cramps require no treatment. Cramps may be treated or prevented with Gingko. Neurological disorders Mainpage Topics in neurological disorders Autoimmune nervous system diseases Autonomic nervous system diseases Degenerative nervous system diseases Central nervous system diseases Brain diseases Cranial nerve disorders Headaches Dementia Language disorders Perceptual disorders Motor neuron diseases Neurologic manifestations Movement disorders Peripheral nerve disorders Sleep disorders Spinal cord diseases Featured neurological articles Multiple sclerosis Cerebral palsy Migraine headache Cluster headache Alzheimer's disease Stuttering Chronic fatigue syndrome Parkinson's disease Carpal tunnel syndrome Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy Diabetic neuropathy Lower back pain Snoring Sleep apnea Brain tumor Brain cancer Spinal cord tumors Nutrition for neurological disorders MindSoothe for emotional health MindSoothe , a natural herbal remedy, contains a selection of herbs known for their calming and supportive function in maintaining brain and nervous system health, emotional balance and overall wellbeing. Neuro Natural Memory Specifically formulated to help support brain health, Neuro-Natural Memory may help improve memory, concentration levels and reduce the potential for brain and memory function problems. Triple Complex Sleep Tonic Sleep Tonic helps the body relax and produce all the hormones essential for healthy sleep; safe for everyone, including pregnant and nursing women, children, and small babies. All information is intended for reference only. Please consult your physician for accurate medical advices and treatment. Copyright 2005, healt