
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.0.12
Date: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 11:18:01 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: affiliate_data=ooCFcF1Up8ncusOphLSLwca4hteghqy%2Fubp1gIl6nqWAlaqLeUCEpozLv62G16aCs9Knu7Kpv6GWpUasunOSs111YISEdliTdkV70YB5i4B1QISYrMziuri0iJ%2BZ1rS4hMathLPRRre0rbiJZ1SBzLCCjXhWdWHVjXZdnWMjocSssL%2BvtLSIkbnX18W2o4%2BhmdVTt5TYs4algIGwjXeOs11le52YUbimiamSy7S4isK0l6HSpaq%2Fp8azI6W6xOqwyaWGr5jGnIhHnqpdbY%2BBuo14iXpFMqfJ3LrDqYS0i8HGuIbXoIasv7m6U7q8rYhUgcywgopzVHJbl4x3V560XXSUgGlTp7mmjJ6vxOq2trOXoZrBtrCG1rQjqdGlusy5x6WQkbvW28O2oYmmj868pZnIY16zmHeBdXZ1e6A%3D; expires=Tue, 01-Apr-2014 11:18:01 GMT
Set-Cookie: affiliate_data=ooCFcF1Up8ncusOphLSLwca4hteghqy%2Fubp1gIl6nqWAlaqLeUCEpozLv62G16aCs9Knu7Kpv6GWpUasunOSs111YISEdliTdkV70YB5i4B1QISYrMziuri0iJ%2BZ1rS4hMathLPRRre0rbiJZ1SBzLCCjXhWdWHVjXZdnWMjocSssL%2BvtLSIkbnX18W2o4%2BhmdVTt5TYs4algIGwjXeOs11le52YUbimiamSy7S4isK0l6HSpaq%2Fp8azI6W6xOqwyaWGr5jGnIhHnqpdbY%2BBuo14iXpFMqfJ3LrDqYS0i8HGuIbXoIasv7m6U7q8rYhUgcywgopzVHJbl4x3V560XXSUgGlTp7mmjJ6vxOq2trOXoZrBtrCG1rQjqdGlusy5x6WQkbvW28O2oYmmj868pZnIY16zmHeBdXZ1e6A%3D; expires=Tue, 01-Apr-2014 11:18:01 GMT

Generic Atarax - Buy cheap Generic Atarax Online Home My Account Checkout About Us Contact Us Login Your Cart: $ 0.00 ( 0 ) Proceed to Checkout Change language: English French German Spanish US toll free number 1-800-475-2105 France: 0-800-901-337 AR12305G01 HOME ABOUT US PRICE LIST AFFILIATES FAQS Search for Products Categories Men's Health Tadalafil Sildenafil Citrate Vardenafil Kamagra Kamagra Jelly Tadalafil Professional Tadalafil Super Active Sildenafil Professional Sildenafil Super Active Super P-Force Dapoxetine Variety Pack Cialis (Brand) Daily Cialis (Brand) Viagra (Brand) Levitra (Brand) Staxyn (Brand) Priligy (Brand) More... Silagra Kamagra Softabs Kamagra Effervescent Sildenafil Citrate Softabs Suhagra Penegra Edegra Tadalafil Softabs Caverta Apcalis Tadalafil Jelly Tadacip Zenegra Forzest Daily Tadalafil Tadora Tadalis SX Vardenafil Jelly Valif Jelly Vardenafil Softabs Sildenafil Citrate Jelly Vega H Cream Malegra FXT Plus Malegra FXT Super Vardenafil Force Generic Avodart Generic Flomax Finasteride (Proscar) Trial Packs Sildenafil Pleasure Pack Tadalafil Pleasure Pack Kamagra Pleasure Pack Vardenafil Pleasure Pack Professional Sildenafil Pack Professional Tadalafil Pack Jelly Fast-Pack Express ED Pack Hair Loss Propecia (Brand) Finasteride Minoxidil 2% Minoxidil 5% Weight Loss Xenical (Brand) Orlistat Mega Hoodia ViproSlim Pain Relief Sumatriptan Celecoxib Tattoo Numb Antiviral Tamiflu Antibiotics Nitrofurantoin Cleocin (Brand) Augmentin (Brand) Bactrim (Brand) Baycip (Brand) Azithromycin Erythromycin (Brand) Wymox (Brand) Ampicillin Ciprofloxacin Doxycycline Metronidazole Cephalexin Quit Smoking Bupropion Champix Starter Pack Champix (Brand) High Cholesterol Atorvastatin Simvastatin Women's Health Ovral-G (Brand) Duphaston Premarin (Brand) Progynova Generic Desogen Norethindrone Raloxifene Vaniqa Cream 11.5% Eflornithine 13.5% Herbal Medications Herbal Viagra Speman WonderSleep Tentex Royal (ED) Tentex Forte (ED) Vrikshamla (Herbal Diet) Liv. 52 Double Strength Ashwagandha (Anti-Stress) Blood Pressure Propranolol Minipress (Brand) Telmisartan Lasix (Brand) Irbesartan Ramipril Candesartan Generic Caduet Metoprolol Acne Retin-A Gel 0.025% Retin-A Cream 0.025% Retin-A Cream 0.05% Adapalene Allergies Generic Allegra Zyrtec (Brand) Allegra (Brand) Generic Atarax AntiretroVirals Lamivudine Generic Combivir Generic Zerit Zidovudine Generic Sustiva Generic Norvir Generic Viramune Asthma Albuterol Nebules Generic Singulair Generic Flovent Inhaler Generic Flovent Rotacaps Generic Flovent Respules Antidepressant Fluoxetine Citalopram Paroxetine Venlafaxine Escitalopram Antipsychotics Aripiprazole Quetiapine Fumarate Herpes Generic Valtrex Generic Zovirax Ointment Zovirax (Brand) Generic Zovirax Stomach Ulcer Zantac (Brand) Generic Zantac Diabetes Amaryl (Brand) Metformin Metformin XR Generic Actos Glyburide Birth Control Generic Plan-B Ovral-L (Brand) Fertility Clomiphene Citrate Others Baclofen Pantoprazole Lumigan 0.03% (Brand) Cyclosporine Azathioprine Senior Health Care Donepezil Selegiline FAQ What does generic stand for? Generic means using a different name for the same ingredients. The contents of the pills are absolutely the same in our generic version and the branded original. Why are our products so inexpensive? There are a number of reasons for that. We do not spend large sums of money on marketing, there are no taxes to be paid as the product come into the country unregistered, the manufacturer is located in an offshore zone and the production costs are much lower. Child labor is never used. Where are your physicians (doctors) licensed? Our physicians are U.S licensed. We use only board certified physicians and U.S licensed pharmacies. How do you ship orders? We can offer 2 shipping methods at the moment: Trackable Courier Service: the packages sent by this postal service can by tracked by the tracking number supplied after the order is shipped. Read more... Generic Atarax Brand vs Generic Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) is an antihistamine, which helps treat the symptoms of allergies and allergic reactions, such as itching, sneezing and sniffling. In addition, Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) has also been found to be an effective sedative and can therefore efficiently be used as a treatment for nervousness and tension in the short term, such as anxiety as a result of certain mental or mood disorders, general apprehension before surgery or to enhance the effects of certain narcotic pain relievers (e.g. meperidine). Availability: In stock Manufacturer: Generic Average Delivery Time: 8 days Tell a friend Requires Prescription Generic Drug Need live help? Generic Atarax 25 Mg Quantity Price Bonus Price per unit Add to cart 30 Pills $29.00 $0.97 Order Now 60 Pills $39.00 $0.65 Order Now 90 Pills $55.00 $0.61 Order Now 120 Pills $69.00 $0.57 Order Now 170 Pills $89.00 +10 Pills $0.49 Bestseller 340 Pills $149.00 +20 Pills $0.41 Best Price Benefits Powerful antihistamine that combats the symptoms of allergic reactions Effective sedative against anxiety and general apprehension Increases the effects of pain relievers and works as a mild painkiller by itself Better safety profile than similar sedative medications Suitable for use in children What Our Customers Say: “ I have been hunting for a user friendly site like yours for some time! Awesome! I will be back!!! Awesome prompt service! Got to "speak" with Jon instantly, who followed through consistantly. Most impressed!! ” Jeff G. Missouri, USA Product Description Safety Information Side Effects FAQs How to Use Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) should be taken orally, usually 3 or 4 times a day. Follow the instructions of you doctor exactly, even if they differ from the usually recommended dosage. Inform your doctor immediately if you condition does not improve or become worse. Overdose Potential symptoms of a Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) overdose include: Prolonged or severe sleepiness If you suspect you have taken too much of this medication, contact your local poison center or the emergency medical services immediately. Missed Dose If you miss a dose of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine), take it as soon as you remember. If it is nearly time for your next scheduled dosage, skip the missed dose, then continue with your regular schedule. Do not double up on this medication to make up for a missed dose. Notes Do not share this medication with others as they may have a condition that is not adequately treated with Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine). Storage Store Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) at room temperature, between 59-86 degrees F (15-30 degrees C) and away from light and moisture. Once finished, dispose of this medication in keeping with environmental standards. KEEP THIS AND ALL OTHER MEDICATION OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Important Note The above information is intended to supplement, not substitute for, the expertise and judgment of your physician, pharmacist or other healthcare professional. It should not be construed that the taking of this medication is safe, appropriate or effective for you. * Illustrations are for graphic purposes only and the ordered medication may differ in appearance. Precautions Before taking Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine), you should discuss your medical history with your doctor, including: Any allergies Breathing problems (e.g. emphysema or asthma) Glaucoma Heart conditions High blood pressure Kidney or liver problems Seizures Stomach or intestinal problems (e.g. ulcer or blockage) Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism) Problems urinating (e.g. due to enlarged prostate or bladder blockage) If you currently suffer or ever have suffered from any of the above conditions, you may not be able to use Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) or you may need a dosage adjustment. Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) may cause dizziness, drowsiness or blurred vision. It is therefore recommended not to drive or operate heavy machinery while taking this medication, at least until you are sure you can perform these activities safely. Caution is advised when Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) is used by certain age groups. The elderly may be more sensitive to the side effects of this medication, especially drowsiness and confusion. In children, this medication may have the opposite effect and cause excitement instead of sedation. Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) may cause inaccurate or false results of certain laboratory tests. Make sure you inform the medical staff you are taking this medication before taking the test. Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) is classified as Pregnancy Category C by the FDA, which means it may be harmful to an unborn child. It is advised to especially be careful during the first three months of pregnancy, but even during the second and third trimester, this medication should only be used on doctor’s advice. Consult your doctor immediately if you are currently pregnant or planning to become pregnant in the near future. It is not known whether Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) passes into breast milk or if it could be harmful to a nursing infant. Talk to your doctor before taking this medication if you are currently breastfeeding. Drug Interactions Before using Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine), tell your doctor if you are also taking any of the following: Antispasmodics (e.g. atropine or belladonna alkaloids) Epinephrine MAO inhibitors (e.g. furazolidone, isocarboxazid, linezolid, moclobemide, phenelzine, procarbazine, rasagiline, selegiline or tranylcypromine) Medicines for Parkinson's disease (e.g. anticholinergics such as benztropine, or trihexyphenidyl) Scopolamine Tricyclic antidepressants (e.g. amitriptyline) Certain antihistamines (e.g. diphenhydramine) Anti-seizure medications (e.g. carbamazepine Medicine for sleep or anxiety (e.g. alprazolam, diazepam or zolpidem) Muscle relaxants Narcotic pain relievers (e.g. codeine) Psychiatric medicines (e.g. chlorpromazine, risperidone or trazodone) Any medication containing other antihistamines or ingredients that cause drowsiness This is only a partial list and other medications may negatively interact with Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine). Inform your doctor of all other prescription and non-prescription medicines you are currently taking, including herbal pills, dietary supplements, minerals, vitamins and medications prescribed by other doctors. Do not suddenly start or stop using this medication without consulting your doctor first. The following common side effects of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) may occur: Drowsiness Dizziness Blurred vision Dry mouth Headache The potential side effects mentioned above are usually mild and should only last temporarily. Contact your doctor as soon as possible if any of these side effects persist or worsen. Inform your doctor straightaway if you experience any of the following rare but serious side effects: Mental or mood changes (e.g. worsening anxiety, confusion or hallucinations) Shaking (tremor) Decreased or painful urination Vision changes Also notify your doctor immediately if you encounter any of these rare but very serious side effects: A pounding or irregular heartbeat Seizures In rare cases, you may experience a severe allergic reaction to Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine). Seek emergency medical help if you have any of the following symptoms: Rash Itching or swelling (especially of the face, tongue or throat) Severe dizziness Trouble breathing This is only a partial list and other side effects of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) may occur. Inform your doctor straightaway if you experience any other side effects than the ones mentioned above, especially if they are bothersome. How does Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) work? When the body suffers an allergic reaction the chemical histamine is produced. This chemical then causes an increase in blood flow to the affected area, which in turn causes the various symptoms of an allergic reaction. An antihistamine like Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) blocks the actions of histamine, therefore counteracting the allergic reaction. Because this medication enters the brain in large quantities it also has a strong sedative effect and on top of that it suppresses certain activities in the central nervous system. These two attributes also make Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) an effective treatment for various types of anxiety. Is it safe to use Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) if I am pregnant or breastfeeding? Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) is classified as Pregnancy Category C by the FDA, which means it may be harmful to an unborn child. It is advised to especially be careful during the first three months of pregnancy, but even during the second and third trimester, this medication should only be used on doctor’s advice. Consult your doctor immediately if you are currently pregnant or planning to become pregnant in the near future. It is not known whether Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) passes into breast milk or if it could be harmful to a nursing infant. Talk to your doctor before taking this medication if you are currently breastfeeding. Can I drink alcohol while using Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine)? Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) and alcohol may both cause drowsiness and dizziness. It is therefore advised not to drink any alcohol while taking this medication. Can Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) be used for the treatment of anxiety in the long term? Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) is not usually recommended for long term use (more than 4 months). You should only keep taking this medication after that initial period of time if this was approved by your doctor and under the provision that he re-evaluates your condition on a regular basis. What is the recommended dosage of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine)? The standard recommended dosage of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) for the treatment of anxiety in adults is 50-100mg, taken four times a day. The recommended dosage for children over the age of 6 is 50-100mg, divided over 2-4 dosages per day. For children under the age of 6 the recommended dosage is 50mg, divided over several dosages per day. The standard recommended dosage of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) when used as a sedative for adults before surgery is 50-100mg. The recommended dosage for children is 0.6mg per lbs of body weight. The standard recommended dosage of Generic Atarax (Hydroxyzine) for the treatment of allergic reactions in adults is 25mg, taken 3 or 4 times daily. The recommended dosage for children over the age of 6 is 50-100mg, divided into 2-4 dosages per day. For children under the age of 6 the recommended dosage is 50mg per day, taken in divided dosages. Shipping with: Payment options: *All transactions are processed in US dollars Processing by Secured by: Home | Checkout | About Us | Price List | Delivery | Refund Policy | Brand vs. Generic | FAQs | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy © 2007 Generic4All.com. All rights reserved - Design by Faudweb.net Studio 2007 Site Use statement Brand names appearing on this site are registered trademarks of their respective companies. The statements on this website have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other similar international agency. The information on this website is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Prescription, OTC, nutritional or other products are not offered to diagnose or prescribe medical or psychological conditions, nor claim to prevent, treat, mitigate or cure such conditions, nor to recommend specific products as treatment of disease or to provide diagnosis, care, treatment or rehabilitation of individuals, or apply medical, mental health or human development principles. The information herein is not a substitute for medical advice from your 