<http://www.yourpurelife.com/?p=203>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 19:20:03 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Alternative Treatments for Cancer | Your Pure Life Home Contact Submission Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Disclaimer Archive News Tips Newsletter My Favorites Health Alternative Beauty Healthy Eating Food Diet Suplements Medical Nature Body & Mind Body Mind Spirituality Relationships Family Friendship Love Marriage Sex Society Culture Entertainment Lifestyle Featured Tools Alternative Treatments for Cancer April 23, 2010 Alternative , Health , Medical Share/Bookmark The keys to our inherent health and healing are vital to invoke for true healing to be able to occur. In The Journal of Clinical Oncology, in an article entitled “Must We Kill to Cure?,” it was noted that “the host response that is, the patient’s immune response] is critical and determines long term survival.” What are these inherent keys? Well, as noted, the immune system is the most critical key, And this vast system relies on many other keys: spiritual focus, a solid nutritional strategy, a sound endocrine system, relaxation approaches and stress reduction, and eliminating toxic loads to our bodies and minds. No wonder embarking on a path to heal from cancer is typically so life changing!Since there is no single, consistent definition of alternative medicine in the published literature or in the mind of the public, the researchers based their survey on the “domains” of alternative medicine described by the National Institutes of Health’s National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. To streamline the survey process, the researchers collapsed the domains into three subgroups: — alternative providers (such as acupuncturists, massage therapists,naturopathic doctors or homeopathic physicians); – dietary supplements (vitamin, mineral, herbal or other supplements, such as shark cartilage); and – “other” therapies (diet or physical activity; mental and spiritual therapies such as prayer, meditation and support groups; and energetic interventions such as crystals and magnets). Patients were considered a user of alternative medicine if they received care from an alternative provider within the past year or had used at least one alternative supplement or therapy. The most pervasive form of alternative treatment among those surveyed was the use of herbal and high-dose vitamin supplements, which were used, respectively, by 54 percent and 59 percent of the patients, many of whom also used several such products simultaneously. “While the data are conflicting about harm or benefit regarding use of these products among children undergoing cancer treatment, some caution may be advisable,” Neuhouser said. For example, antioxidants such as vitamins C and vitamin e may reduce the effectiveness of chemotherapy, while herbs such as yew needle and the herbal tea essiac have been associated with heart and kidney impairment, particularly when taken in conjunction with certain cancer drugs. More studies are demonstrating that, in contrast to the general beliefs of most cancer doctors, anti-oxidant vitamins and supplements can be supportive to the patient receiving chemotherapy and radiation therapy and may actually improve outcome, both in terms of decreased ide effects and enhanced impact on the destruction of cancer cells. There are some clear exceptions to this. For example, several types of cancer agents rely on oxidation to have their tumor reducing effect; bioflavonoids can negatively impact on the effectiveness of Tamoxifen; Selenium above a certain range can interfere with radiation therapy. But in a conference call with Wall Street analysts, the company said Provenge demonstrated the longest survival edge ever for a treatment of late-stage prostate cancer. It said the number of patients on Provenge still alive after three years was significantly greater than for those on placebo. There were few side effects, the most common being fever and chills that lasted one to two days. Provenge If the data persuades the Food and Drug Administration to approve Provenge for sale in the U.S., it would become the world’s first mass-produced cancer vaccine. Cancer vaccines don’t prevent the disease, but they work like a vaccine, stimulating the body’s immune system to fight cancer cells as if the cancer were a virus. It’s a different approach than the current therapies for prostate cancer — radiation and hormones — that have significant side effects. Cancer treatment is complicated because in some types of cancer there are no symptoms, and in other types symptoms may disappear by themselves, at least temporarily. Use of an unconventional treatment coinciding with remission (lessening of symptoms) could be simply coincidental. There’s no way of knowing, without a controlled clinical trial, what effect the treatment had on the outcome. The danger comes when this false security causes patients to forgo approved treatment that has shown real benefit. What are the more serious consequences of the therapy–short term–on hair, skin, digestive and immune systems? Long term–causing another type of cancer, immune system does not recover, sexual function organ system impairment? What are all my options to remedy these side effects, either during or after therapy? Some unapproved cancer treatments not only have no proven benefits, they have actually been proven dangerous. These include Laetrile , which may cause cyanide poisoning and has been found ineffective in clinical trials, and coffee enemas, which, when used excessively, have killed patients. Ozone generators , which produce a toxic form of oxygen gas, have been touted as being able to cure AIDS. To date this is still unproven, and FDA considers ozone to be an unapproved drug and these generators to be unapproved medical devices. At least three deaths have been connected to the use of these generators. Four British citizens were indicted in 1991 for selling fraudulent ozone generators in the United States. Two of the defendants fled to Great Britain, but the other two pleaded guilty and served time in U.S. federal prisons. The bottom line in deciding whether a certain treatment you’ve read or heard about might be right for you: Talk to your doctor. And keep in mind the old adage: If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Poly-MVA Dr. Michael Culbert, president and founder of the International Council for Health Freedom (ICHF) espoused about the ongoing global fight for medical freedom through the use of dietary supplements. He mentioned that Poly-MVA is the natural and modern way of treating cancer, stroke, and other degenerative conditions. However, he also emphasized that the drug is not a cure, rather, one of several integrative approaches to treating illnesses. “There is an ongoing global fight for medical freedom, with large drug companies and government agencies trying to suppress the dietary supplements industry. What we need to focus on is the emergence of the integrative system model which unifies modern (naturopathy, herbal therapy, etc.) and traditional (chemotherapy, radiotherapy, surgery) methods, all for the benefit of humanity,” said Dr. Culbert. Marketed as a supplement that will “speed cancer treatment” Poly-MVA is in liquid form for oral ingestion. It contains alpha-lipoic acid/palladium (LAPd) complexes, which assist in correcting malfunctioning nucleic acids in the DNA of genes. Dr. Culbert explained that the LAPd complexes basically repair the abnormally altered gene that sets potential cancer mechanisms in motion. It is a sort of cancer prophylactic or important remission tool, helping achieve such results as tumor shrinkage, cancer down staging from Stage 4 to Stage 2, pain reduction and additional therapeutic effects. Detoxamin Chelation therapy is a safe, effective alternative to drugs and surgeries, used to treat many illnesses including heart disease, stroke, diabetes, circulatory disorders, neuropathies, Alzheimers disease, and atherosclerosis which have been linked to the presence of toxic heavy metals in the body. Traditionally administered through an intravenous drip, the number of treatments vary based on each patients individual condition and/or goals of treatment. The average therapy can be given one to three times a week only for 20 to 30 treatments. However beneficial, this form of therapy is very expensive and time-consuming, making it out of reach for most people. Green and Gold International Exports brings to the Philippines the product Detoxamin, a new viable alternative to intravenous chelation therapy. Detoxamin is in the form of a rectal suppository, advised to be taken prior to bedtime, so that it will enter the bloodstream and improve health, “while you sleep.” Jay Salmon, head of World Health Products (WHP), revealed during the forum about rapidly advancing evidence that Detoxamin represents a simple and effective approach not only in cardiovascular disease but in detoxification of the body by removal of heavy metals and minerals. As many as half of all cancer patients use some form of alternative medicine as they undergo treatment for the disease. They take ginger to stem their nausea, a common side effect of cancer drugs. They drink Valerian (ph) tea for sleeplessness. They practice yoga and Tai Chi to stay fit and reduce stress. Doctors generally say these kinds of treatments can be helpful, as long as they don’t interfere with standard therapies,but they’re concerned about patients who only use alternative treatments to try to cure their cancer. The Gerson therapy is a nutritional treatment which primarily uses fresh organic juices and a vegetarian diet in an attempt to de-toxify the body and let it heal itself. For three weeks, Ken drank fruit and vegetable juices every hour. Four times a day he took coffee enemas . He also took vitamins and supplements and mud packs for the pain his cancer causes him. And as a part of the treatment, he did meditation and received counseling. FLEENER: After they told me I didn’t have long to live in Indianapolis, I was pretty depressed and now I feel very good myself and I sleep good and I don’t have any more bad dreams and I don’ think about dying. And I just think that I’m going to whip it and that it’s a good program to use. PERL: Though the Gerson treatment has been available just over the border in Tijuana, Mexico for 20 years, a new Arizona state law that guarantees access to all medical treatments allowed Gerson advocates to open their first treatment center in this country one year ago. CHARLOTTE GERSON (PH), PRESIDENT, GERSON INSTITUTE: When you truly heal, you do not heal selectively. The body heals itself when you give it every opportunity and every support. And that’s really what the Gerson therapy is about.Doctor McNay has since had his medical license revoked, following the deaths of four people he treated with aloe vera, who came to him from as far away as Waco, Texas. And he has been indicted on charges of defrauding cancer patients. Despite stories like these, thousands of people still opt for unproven alternative treatments. One of the main things driving them is a belief that traditional cancer medicines, radiation and chemotherapy drugs are poisons. Again, Berry Castlet. CASTLET: Many years from now, we will in fact look back on chemotherapy in particular, and radiation to a lesser extent, and realize that, you know, this is as fairly primitive means of treating a terrible disease. Right now, it’s the best we have. Yes, chemotherapy is poison to fast-growing cells in the body. Fast-growing cells include malignant cells, that’s why it kills cancer. And fast-growing cells include the follicles that produce hair. So, that’s why your hair falls out. Your hair will grow back again, and presumably the cancer cells, we hope, will be destroyed. So, yes, these are toxic approaches. They’re toxic only to certain kinds of cells. But how often are you going to kill a cancer cell, given our current knowledge and capacities? PERL: Today, nearly 60 percent of the time these poisons can cure cancer, and there are no credible studies that any of the alternative treatments can. But there are spontaneous remissions, cancer patients who occasionally beat the odds for no explicable reason. And there are anecdotes, people who swear that they have been cured by alternative treatments. And they tell their stories in magazines, on television, and on the Internet. Toni Sellhoffer (ph) of Ocean City, Maryland heard one of these stories while she was undergoing treatment for Hodgkin’s Disease, a cancer of the lymph system. Five months after she had a bone marrow transplant, her cancer returned. So, Tony decided to try an alternative treatment from Canada. SEACT Tea (ph) and 714x . TONI SELLHOFFER, CANCER PATIENT WHO TRIED ALTERNATIVE TREATMENT: I heard about it on the news. This kid ran away from home a couple of years ago and it was national news. And he didn’t — he ran away from home because he didn’t want to receive any more chemotherapy for his Hodgkin’s Disease. He was on a couple of different talk shows. So, I then called his father in Massachusetts to find out exactly what he had done, because he was now cancer free after a going a year without treatment. He had done this alternative treatment. So, a — and I thought he had — you know, since he had the same kind cancer as me, maybe I had a shot at it. PERL: SEACT Tea was developed by a Canadian Nurse. It contains the herbs slippery elm, sorrel, and burdock (ph) among others. It is said to boost the immune system and break up tumors. But both Canadian and American studies have found it ineffective. 714x is a liquid made up of camphor and nitrogen. The treatment is based on the theory that cancer cells can be converted into normal cells by bathing them in nitrogen. There’s no scientific evidence that this is true. Nevertheless for a year, Toni injected 714x into her groin. During that time, her cancer spread. This upset Imar Tabara, (ph) her oncologist at George Washington University Hospital. IMAR TABARA, ONCOLOGIST, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL: Treating cancer, the best treatment or the best outcome would be when you have minimal disease and that’s where you have a chance to control that disease the best way you can. Critics to ortodox treatment to killing cancer Plant based treatments cannot produce large profits because they cannot be patented. Large profits are needed to pay for the expensive FDA approved clinical trials. So plant based treatments never get FDA approval to treat a disease. Your doctor can only prescribe treatments that are FDA approved. If your doctor prescribes treatments that are not FDA approved, he or she can be sued or lose their license. Most tumors contain a small percentage, approximately 2%, of multiple drug-resistant cells (MDR cells) . Chemo is not effective against these cells. After the first round of chemo, if the chemo is effective, all of the cells that are not MDR, are destroyed. Since this accounts for the vast majority of the tumor mass, the tumor will appear to be effectively destroyed. However, the MDR cells remain and start to multiply. Eventually, a new tumor is formed that is entirely MDR. The next time chemo is used, none of the cells will be destroyed because they are all MDR. For a doctor to recommend chemo a second time when it is clear that the tumor is mostly MDR is a tremendous error. Unfortunately, conventional medicine has nothing that works against MDR cells. The alternative cancer treatment, Paw Paw is the only cancer treatment that has shown effectiveness against MDR cells. But, of course conventional doctors cannot recommend it. The first way is to kill the cancer cells, either directly or indirectly (e.g. indirectly by building the immunity system). Laetrile (i.e. Vitamin B17), carrot juice with beet juice, the Brandt Grape Cure, food grade hydrogen peroxide, ozone therapy, and many, many other treatments, appear to work by killing the actual cancer cells and/or by building the immunity system.But on an individual level, if cancer patients knew the truth, they would NEVER for one minute (except in rare cases) subject themselves to ANY orthodox treatment for cancer. The “true cure rate” for orthodox medicine, stripping away their sophisticated statistics, is 3%. Yes, 3%. No later than 1968, it was discovered that there was an even better, and far safer, product that could target cancer cells. In this article: “Haematoxylon [a dye] Dissolved in Dimethylsulfoxide DMSO Used in Recurrent Neoplasms [i.e. cancer cells or tumor cells],” by E. J. Tucker, M.D., F.A.C.S., and A. Carrizo, M.D. in International Surgery, June 1968, Vol 49, No. 6, page 516, It was shown that DMSO bound to the dye (i.e. haematoxylon) and targeted cancer cells. Some of the cancer patients were cured during this study, even though DMSO was only being combined with a dye!! “In spite of my criticisms, there are some parts of this study which do interest me very much. The fact that the Haematoxylon [a color die, which allowed the researchers to see which cells absorbed the DMSO and haematoxylon] and D.M.S.O. solution had a particular affinity for neoplasms [i.e. cancerous cells], and did not stain other tissues in animals could be most significant.” For the past 25 years, Dr. Jerry Mc Laughlin has researched acetogenins and their role in cellular protection. During that time, he has published over 100 articles and studies related to the health benefits of these compounds that are found naturally in certain herbs. A recent clinical study with over 100 cancer patients shows that the extract (containing a mixture of acetogenins) may support the body’s cells during times of cellular stress. The most potent available source of acetogenins is the paw paw tree (Asimina triloba) . The twigs contain the most concentrated amount of acetogenins, especially if they are harvested when they are most biologically active. Important new alternative treatments for breast cancer are emerging from research on our evolutionary past. For example, many anthropologists have documented the importance of breast feeding across cultures for immune support and optimum nutrition in infants. Now fascinating new research links breast feeding to protection from cancer for both the infant and mother. Given our evolutionary heritage of extended nursing (for much longer periods than today) and our modern lifestyle of virtually no breast feeding, this discovery offers new perspective on the increase in breast cancer incidence in developed societies. Herbal medicines are also effective in helping to prevent or control breast cancer and its side effects. One promising Indian herbal formula called Amrit can reduce the side effects of chemotherapy according to researcher Dr. Han Sharma, a professor emeritus and former director of cancer prevention and natural products research at Ohio State University. He and researchers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi recently completed a study on Amrit. Patients reported Amrit improved their overall well-being during chemotherapy by reducing instances of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, insomnia, anorexia, and boosting their energy levels. Amrit is a combination formula that contains 44 herbs and is rich in antioxidant minerals and vitamins, including large amounts of vitamins C, E, and beta-carotene. Research shows it helps support liver detoxification during cancer and chemotherapy. We have evolved with exposure to natural light and dark for thousands of years and are highly dependent on it for health. Richard Stevens at the University of Connecticut Health Center and colleagues in Finland found that women who are completely blind had 60% fewer breast cancers than women with normal sight. Those women who were only slightly blind had similar breast cancer rates to fully sighted women. The researchers found a proportionate decrease in breast cancer that coincided with the severity of the women’s visual impairment. The disruption of natural cycles of light and dark, normal sleep patterns and melatonin produ ction has also been raised as a possible explanation for the 200% higher risk of breast cancer faced by Finnish air stewardesses. At first, it was suggested that cancer could be triggered by exposure to higher than average levels of radiation at high altitude. But leukemia, the prime cancer associated with radiation, was not as common among the women as would be expected. Further studies of mice that have been exposed constantly to light or had their pineal glands removed, and so cannot produce melatonin, have shown that they can suffer higher rates of breast cancer. Rats that had their pineal glands removed but received melatonin supplements developed fewer tumors. The disruption of melatonin production by artificial light may be increasing estrogen levels leading to breast cancer. Next Incoming search terms: health benefits of lapd herb mixture imar cancer treatment is it safe to take alpha lipoic acid during cancer treatment proven alternative cure for breast cancer in india pure life definition Related Videos Loading... Related Video Search alternative treatments for cancer , cancer , complementary and alternative medicine , definition of alternative medicine , homeopathic physicians , journal of clinical oncology , national center for complementary and alternative medicine , national institutes of health , prayer meditation , relaxation approaches , toxic loads Advertisements HerbsMD.com The Body Shop Avon most viewed today Mother son relationship Father Daughter relationship Best sexual positions for each situation Mother daughter relationships What is True Love ? Natural Cures for Insomnia Toxic chemicals in our home further read About silent knowledge of things versus just monitoring things When You’re Divorcing What’s the Best Exercise? Scientific Tips on Dating and Mating The Spoils of Happiness My Favorites Your favorites will be here. Get involved Take Our Poll Recent Posts Comments Tags Best sexual positions for each situation 4:22 pm By YPL What is the best position if your guy is really gifted, or when he has a small penis? Is your back hurting? Are you pregnant? Are Read More » What is True Love ? 6:25 pm By YPL Love is often confused with addiction, surrender, conquest, submission, or physical dependence – a five love killers. Therefore, there is a very good reason to ask Read More » Love Meter 4:45 pm By YPL NUMEROLOGY LOVE METER Find out how big is love compatibility with your partner according to numerology. According to numerologists, the mystical properties of numbers coming from Read More » False Friends 4:25 pm By YPL ‘Friends you should dump “Unlike those of pleasure and use, ethical friendships set terms that do not admit of compartmentalization. Instead, they claim us at every Read More » 20 top predictions for next 100 years 11:41 am By YPL 1. Oceans will be extensively farmed and not just for fish 2. We will have the ability to communicate through thought transmission 3. Thanks to DNA Read More » mike van john : Help!! After 3 years of being a relationship  I've » Earl Sam : ......although the "typical black man" doesn't see » Stewart : We are.six months into our divorce.  His out bust » Brenda Kidd : Why are people to afraid to listen to the truth, y » YPL : Thanks for the comment.  It was Canadian Lung Asso » alternative cancer treatment alternative treatments for cancer cancer childbearing years dementia digestive juices emotional closeness family messages happiness intuition longevity love male female relationships marriage maternal attachment mothers and sons orgasm personal relationships Pomegrante protein molecules Your Pure Diet Hormonal imbalance and body fat Naturopath Max Tomlinson believes the reason fat gets laid down in specific areas is often hormonal. ‘A multitude of processes in the body are co-ordinated by hormones, and hormones govern where we store fat,’ he says. Problems arise because many of us live in a state of hormonal imbalance caused by poor diet, stress, environmental […] Healthy food swaps “Trying to eat more healthily can seem daunting. In fact, by changing just a few eating habits you make a big difference to your diet. Do you live in the Manchester area? Would you be willing to be interviewed for a research project about lifestyle changes to reduce heart disease? If so, visit the NHS […] Low-fat vs. low-carb Over time, many different types of diets have been popular, including low-fat and low-carb diets. Some years ago, low-fat was the mantra. More recently low-carb has been the rage, promising effortless weight loss while eating all the high-fat foods you want. Low-fat usually means high-carb but doesn’t always mean low-calorie if someone eats too many […] Recent Tweets Best sexual positions for each situation http://t.co/8UGwCiyx What is True Love ? http://t.co/7fw8hVnH RT @cshirky : Amazing web panel shows you what permissions you've granted FB, Twitter, Google, etc. http://t.co/tzK5m1ku Alternative Treatments for Cancer (4) http://t.co/17tsU2n5 Alternative Treatments for Cancer (2) http://t.co/JqMnuQJb Media News Bilingual immigrants are healthier, according to new study Smartphones can aid people with schizophrenia Suppressing feelings of compassion makes people feel less moral: study More... Friendship Issues & Advice When parents think their child is a failure Dating Psychology More... In Praise of Pleasure Final Thoughts of a Disenchanted Naturalist A Suicidal Tendency in the Humanities More... Morphine alternative on horizon Spotlight on MIDO Cebit and wonder More... last month popular Father Daughter relationship Mother son relationship Toxic chemicals in our home Hormones The Truth About Salt Mother daughter relationships Quick Mayer Briggs Personality Test Tips “ Rise desire with Herbs Provided that your overall health is good, there are a number of supplements that can restore desire and bring fun back into the bedroom. Whipple recommends a well-balanced diet, with the focus on low-fat fare.” Newsletter Your email: Login Username: Password: Remember me Register Lost your password? Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS Lost your password? © 2012 Your Pure Life Powered by WordPress | Designed by SUV | Thanks to Best Family SUVs , Jeep SUV and Jeep Wrangler Unlimited You may also like- Alternative Treatments for Cancer (2) Alternative Treatments for Cancer (4) A -Z Guide to Health What is True Love Close Login Username Password Connect with: Remember Me Register | Lost your password? Register Username E-mail Connect with: First Name: Last Name: Website: Password: Confirm Password: Too Short Hint: Use upper and lower case characters, numbers and symbols like !"?$%^&( in your password. Validation Image: Enter the text from the image. A password will be e-mailed to you. Log in | Lost your password? Reset Password Userna