
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 06 Mar 2012 10:34:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (CentOS)
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Ginkgo Biloba Super - 60 mg - Standardized - 60 capsules - ZIN: 101719 Sign In | Cart | Wish List | Help Checkout Now » 0 Items 100% Safe and Private! Search Everywhere Books Home & Garden Toys Health Adult Personal Baby for: Home > Health > Herbs > G > Ginkgo Biloba Herbs G • Galangal • Garcinia Cambogia • Garlic • Gelatin • Gentian Root • Geranium Root • Ginger Root • Ginkgo Biloba • Ginseng, American (Panax qui.) • Ginseng, Asian (Panax gin.) • Ginseng, Siberian (Eleuthero) • GLA (Gamma Linolenic Acid) • Glucomannan (Konjac) • Glucosamine • Goat's Rue • Goji Berry (Lycii) • Goldenrod • Goldenseal • Gotu Kola • Grape Seed Extract / Skins • Grape Vine • Grapefruit Seed Extract • Gravel Root • Graviola • Green Cabbage • Green Tea Extract • Grindelia • Guar Gum • Guarana • Guggulipid • Gymnema Sylvestre Questions? We Answer The Phone! Telephone Us Now! 1-800-760-8783 1-905-494-1785 Email us now! All Products - #106 of 109: Previous Next View: All Products (109) | Liquid Extract Blends (5) | Liquid Extracts (5) | Pill Blends (11) | Pills (15) | Powder Blends (16) | Powders (8) | Tea Blends (32) | Teas (8) | Creams, Salves and Gels (8) Ginkgo Biloba Super - 60 mg - Standardized by Swiss Natural Sources 60 capsules More Photographs below. Ginkgo Biloba is one of the world's oldest living tree species. They are tall hardy trees with distinctive fan-shaped leaves, native to China and Japan. Due to its unique biochemistry, the tree lives over 2000 years and is remarkably resistant to env... More Info continues below. Our Price: $12.96 US Buy 1 for $12.96 Buy 2 / Save $0.69! Buy 3 / Save $2.59! Click button to Buy. Specifications ZIN Product Number: 101719 Size: 60 capsules Weight: 0.13 lbs (0.06 KG) Size (inches): 2.36" X 2.36" X 4.33" Size (cm): 6.0 cm X 6.0 cm X 11.0 cm Traditional Uses: Alzheimer's Disease , Cardiovascular Disorders , Migraine Headache , Brain / Cognitive Function , Nervous System / Nervous Disorders , Vertigo (Dizziness) , Macular Degeneration (AMD) , Hypertension (High Blood Pressure) , Respiratory Problems , Mental Health , Tinnitus ("Ringing in the Ears") , Raynaud's Disease , Hypotension (Low Blood Pressure) , Nerve Health / Pain , Blood Dyscrasias (Blood Cell Disorders) , Blood Vessel (Vascular) Disorders Interests: Kosher Products Manufacturer: Swiss Natural Sources Ingredients: Ginkgo Biloba Leaf (40 mg) (Standardized Extract) (24% Ginkgo flavonglycosides, 6% Terpene) Other Ingredients: Gelatin , Lecithin , Glycerin , Water, Purified , Soybean , Beeswax , Carob , Caramel Actions: Antioxidant , Free Radical Scavenging * Please Note: This advice at ZooScape.com relies partly on Historical Medicine that makes use of natural constituents to enhance wellness. This information has not been evaluated or authorized with the FDA. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These ZooScape.com items are supposed to enhance wellness and are not intended to deal with, diagnose, mitigate, ward off, or cure any sickness or condition. If circumstances persist, please confer with your medical doctor. Description - Research and Analysis Ginkgo Biloba is one of the world's oldest living tree species. They are tall hardy trees with distinctive fan-shaped leaves, native to China and Japan. Due to its unique biochemistry, the tree lives over 2000 years and is remarkably resistant to environmental pollutants and pests. Ginkgo Biloba is considered a sacred tree by the Chinese, and has been used in oriental medicine since ancient times for respiratory ailments and brain function. The main active components in Ginkgo Biloba leaves are the flavoglycosides. These compunds have anti-oxidant and free radical properties. Gingko Biloba has proven beneficial for the following: - cerebral vascular insufficiency, vertigo, headache, tinnitus - restoration of the nervous system - inhibiting blood clotting and platelet aggregation - lowering of blood pressure by dilating the blood vessels - prevention of coronary disease - improving memory and enhancing alertness - neutralization of free radicals - helpful in Alzheimer's disease - increasing blood flow to the brain User Group Forum Share your questions and information with the ZooScape community! Be the first to post! Directions Adults: Take one to two capsules daily. Ingredients Standardized Gingko Biloba (Leaf Extract) - 60 mg Standardized to contain 24% Flavoglycosides and 6% Terpene Lactones. Additional ingredients include soyabean oil, lecithin and bees wax. This product contains no Artificial Preservatives, Color, Milk, Soya, Corn, Wheat or Yeast. Cautions No known toxicities: Rare cases of gastric upset or headaches have been reported. Potential drug interaction with warfarin or aspirin. Not recommended for pregnant or lactatingwomen. Consult a health professional if you are taking medication. May diminish effects of seizures in epilepsy. Additional Information Swiss Herbal products are an exclusive line of premium quality, natural source vitamins, minerals and supplements as well as herbs, cosmetics and herbal remedies. All products are prepared to the highest standards of quality control, from raw materials right through the entire manufacturing process. Samples are sent to independent laboratories to verify that these high standards are met or surpassed for purity, potency, stability and freshness. All Swiss Herbal products are packed in tamper-proof pharmaceutical-grade& recyclable containers. All vitamins and supplements are guaranteed for purity, potency and stability for up to three years. ZooScape Reviews! Click here to share a review! Number of Reviews: 4 Average Rating: 4.2 satisfied -- 
Anonymous -- June 17, 2005 Great Value -- 
Anonymous -- June 17, 2005 quality product -- 
Anonymous -- June 17, 2005 -- 
james -- November 21, 2006 Our Price: $12.96 US Buy 1 for $12.96 Buy 2 / Save $0.69! Buy 3 / Save $2.59! Click button to Buy. People Like You Also Bought... You may also be interested in: Goldenrod - 400 mg • Vitamins (A-Z) • Herbs (A-Z) • Homeopathy (A-Z) • Essential Oils (A-Z) • Health Interests (A-H) • Health Interests (I-Z) Number of Reviews for this Product: 4 Average Rating for this Product: Awful Wonderful 1 2 3 4 5 Share This Page! Did you find this page useful? Please share this page with your social network! Twitter Tweet Google +1 Facebook Happy Customers Powder is easy to take I like that fact that the TerraVita Ginkgo powder has no additives at all: no gelatin, no yeast, no [continues ...] -- 
Michael Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Powder Memory boost from ginkgo tea For my Physics exam, I was in trouble. Actually, I was in trouble for most of my exams as I had a ro [continues ...] -- 
Belinda Ginkgo Biloba Tea Bestsellers! Ginkgo Biloba Leaf - 450 mg Ginkgo Biloba - 24% Flavoglycosides and 6% Terpene Lactones - 40 mg Blood Flow Enhancement Complex - Vinpocetine, Primrose, Garlic and More - 450 mg Your Special Deal! High Cholesterol Complex - Guggulipid Extract and Artichoke Leaf Extract - 450 mg Save $11.67 Price: $35.01 US Make $1 per sale - Link to ZooScape.com! More Photographs - Ginkgo Biloba Super - 60 mg - Standardized End of More Photographs - Ginkgo Biloba Super - 60 mg - Standardized These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Products are intended to support general well being and are not intended to treat, diagnose, mitigate, prevent, or cure any condition or disease. See: FTC - Dietary Supplements: An Advertising Guide for Industry Sign In | Shipping | Returns | Where to Buy | About Us | Cont