
Sleep Education News Search Today is March 18th, 2012 insomnia and hypersomnia Last Post: 3/18/2012 8:39:17 AM weight after full hyst Last Post: 3/17/2012 2:14:26 PM Can you Tell me Last Post: 3/17/2012 2:03:45 PM Allergies and CPAP Last Post: 3/16/2012 3:45:17 PM fall asleep during reading book Last Post: 3/16/2012 8:55:57 AM Melatonin Related Items Are Tart Cherries the Miracle Cure for Insomnia? Over the Counter:  Will Melatonin Cure Your Sleep Problems? Researchers Discover Melatonin Switch Related Items Jet Lag Shift Work Delayed Sleep Phase What is it? Melatonin is a natural hormone that is produced by the brain’s pineal gland. It is considered a “darkness signal” for your body and seems to play an important role in sleep. One of melatonin’s main roles is to signal to your body when it is nightfall. As night falls and it becomes dark more melatonin is produced by the pineal gland. Melatonin then signals the part of the brain that regulates your sleep-wake cycle. This lets your body know that the time for sleep is approaching. The melatonin levels in the brain and blood drop back down in the morning. They also decrease when your eyes are exposed to bright light. Body cycles that recur every 24 hours are called “circadian cycles.” Sleep is one of these cycles. Other circadian cycles include body temperature and the production of some hormones such as cortisol and growth hormone. Melatonin also may help to regulate some of the body's other circadian cycles. Melatonin is widely available in the U.S. as a nutritional supplement. It can be purchased without a prescription. Melatonin has been studied at doses ranging from 0.3 mg to 10 mg. Most products come in doses of 1 mg to 5 mg. Research has not yet determined which dose is most effective. But it is possible for a low dose to work better than a high dose. A small “physiological dose” of about 0.3 mg closely resembles the level of your body’s natural melatonin production. Larger doses produce a “pharmacologic” effect. They cause the melatonin in your blood to peak at a much higher level. Studies also show that timing may be more important than dose. It is critical that you take the melatonin at the appropriate time of day. This time will vary depending on the nature of your sleep problem. The most effective time also can vary from one person to another. In certain cases melatonin may be even more effective when used as part of a treatment plan that also includes bright light therapy . The timing of both treatments is of extreme importance. If used at improper times, each treatment may negate the effects of the other. Who gets it? Melatonin can be effective for people who have problems related to the timing of when they sleep and wake.  These problems are known as “circadian rhythm sleep disorders.”  You can take melatonin to “trick” the brain into believing it is night. When taken at the proper time, melatonin can produce a shift in the timing of your sleep period. This can help when the timing of your sleep-wake cycle needs to be corrected. As a result your sleep cycle will line up better with your work or school schedule. In general, taking melatonin in the morning shifts your circadian rhythms later; taking melatonin in the evening shifts the rhythms earlier. Melatonin is most effective in the treatment of these circadian rhythm sleep disorders: Jet lag Jet lag disorder is a temporary problem that occurs when you cross time zones. The timing of your body’s sleep-wake cycle becomes misaligned. It doesn’t match the timing of when you should sleep and be awake at your new location. Symptoms tend to be most severe when traveling eastward. A high level of evidence supports melatonin as a standard treatment for jet lag. When used at the right time, it can reduce jet lag symptoms and improve sleep after you cross multiple time zones. Treatment may begin a few days prior to departure and continue for a few days after arrival. Doses of 0.5 mg to 5 mg may be effective. Shift work Shift work disorder occurs when you have a non-standard work schedule. Examples include night shifts, early-morning shifts and rotating shifts. The schedule forces you to sleep at a time of day when your body expects to be awake. An estimated 20 percent of U.S. workers are in­volved in some form of shift work. A moderate level of evidence supports melatonin as a treatment for night-shift workers. It should be taken after working a night shift and before daytime sleep.  It should not be taken before driving home. Melatonin can improve daytime sleep quality and duration for night-shift workers. The two studies that provided the best results used doses of about 2 mg to 3 mg. Other doses of 0.5 mg to 10 mg also have been studied. Effectiveness does not always depend on the strength of the dosage. Delayed sleep phase Delayed sleep phase disorder (DSP) occurs when the timing of your circadian rhythms is delayed by two or more hours. As a result you regularly go to bed late at night and wake up late in the morning. A moderate level of evidence supports melatonin as a treatment for DSP. Taking melatonin in the afternoon or evening shifts your sleep cycle to an earlier time. This helps you go to sleep earlier. Melatonin treatment reduces the time it takes you to fall asleep. It does not change your total sleep time or your daytime alertness. Doses studied range from 0.3 mg to 5 mg. Effective timing ranged from 1.5 hours to 6 hours before bedtime. For DSP melatonin is best used in combination with bright light therapy in the morning. Melatonin also may be helpful if you have advanced sleep phase disorder , free-running type or irregular sleep-wake rhythm . There is only limited evidence to support the use of melatonin to treat insomnia . At best it only produces a mild improvement in symptoms. More effective treatments for insomnia are medications and cognitive behavioral therapy . Possible side effects? No serious side effects have been attributed to melatonin. But the effects of long-term use have not been studied. Melatonin may be unsafe if it is used with some kinds of psychiatric medicines. As a dietary supplement, melatonin can be marketed and sold without prior approval from the FDA. It is possible for the content of a supplement to differ from what is listed on the product label. Also the quantity and quality of a supplement’s ingredients may vary by manufacturer. The FDA does not routinely analyze the content of dietary supplements. Formulations that have a GLP (good laboratory practice) stamp can be considered to be the most reliable. You should talk to your doctor before using melatonin. Treating a sleep disorder with melatonin also will require the involvement of a sleep specialist. He or she can determine the dose and timing that are right for you. To meet with a sleep specialist you should contact a sleep disorders center that is accredited by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine. Visit www.sleepcenters.org to find an AASM-accredited sleep center near you. Reviewed by Rose Franco, MD Updated March 11, 2008 Back to top Copyright © 2010 American Academy of 