<http://www.what-is-obesity.com/?p=149>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Morbidly Obese People Morbidly Obese People Search Home Obesity Archives Obesity Articles Privacy Policy What is Obesity? Morbidly Obese People By Obesity Expert Leonard Smeltmann Morbidly obese people have a body fat level of more than 40 on the Body Mass Index scale. The definition of morbidly obese is “a condition or disease in which the patient has become so obese that their health is at risk”. Morbidly obese people can be adults, teenagers, and even children. Morbidly Obese People Morbid obesity is more prevalent in today’s society than it has been is years gone by. There are many contributing factors that cause morbid obesity to develop, and these factors affect people of all races, age brackets, income levels, and occupations. The main cause of morbid obesity is a discrepancy between the food consumed and the energy expended by morbidly obese people . These days it’s not unusual for someone to sit for the majority of the day, whether at school, at work, or at home watching the television. These sedentary pursuits are obviously not going to use up a lot of energy in the form of calories, so any extra energy gets stored as body fat. But this passive lifestyle is only half of the equation. Morbidly obese people and food Many of the modern “fast foods” or highly processed commercial foods contain immense amounts of calories and kilojoules in the form of sugar, fat, or carbohydrate. This means that saturating a body with an overabundance of nutrients is easier today that it has ever been in the past. Particularly in the case of carbonated drinks such as sodas, morbidly obese people can unwittingly consume a days worth of energy in a single sitting. Morbidly obese people may also find that they develop a range of other illnesses as a result of their obesity. Asthma, high blood pressure, and type 2 diabetes are particularly common for morbidly obese people . Morbid obesity may also affect people on a psychological level, causing low self-esteem or even depression. The life expectancy morbidly obese people face may also be as much as 20 years shorter than someone in a normal weight range. There are solutions available to morbidly obese people however. Reduced calorie diets are the most effective solution, sometimes combined with light exercise. Exercise for morbidly obese people can be difficult due to adjoining health issues however. If exercise for the morbidly obese person is not a viable option, then bariatric surgery may by prescribed by a doctor. Morbidly obese weight loss is usually very achievable using one of these methods, and surgery in particular has shown excellent results for super morbidly obese people. All people are different however, and it is important to consult with your doctor or dietician so that they can help you design a morbidly obese weight loss plan. The diet for morbidly obese people must be tailored to their specific dietary requirements, and also their personal weight loss goals. If it seems complicated, don’t let it daunt you, because your doctor of physician will be able to offer advice and help for morbidly obese people . If at first weight loss doesn’t occur as quickly or as visibly as you had hoped, don’t let it dissuade you from continuing with your weight loss plan. To lose weight morbidly obese people need to be willing to focus on their goals, and follow the instructions of their health professional to the letter. If you can stick to the plan though, it will all be worth it to regain the quality of life that you deserve. Morbidly Obese People Return to the top of: Morbidly Obese People Obesity Obesity In Children Child Obesity Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Obesity Help Laparoscopic Surgery Overeating Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome Lap Band Complications Morbidly Obese Bariatric Recipes Weight Loss Recipes Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Vitamin Supplementation What are the Costs of Bariatric or Weight Loss Surgery? Bariatric Surgery Costs Bariatric Weight Loss Options Obesity Weight Loss Bariatric Food: Healthy Alternatives for Bariatric Patients Bariatric Foods Bariatric Treatment Centers Bariatric Surgery: Definition Definition of Bariatric Bariatric Nurse Bariatric Transport Bariatric Band Surgery Bariatric Lift Bariatric Banding Western Bariatric Bariatric Surgery Hospital © What is Obesity? 2011 We hope you have enjoyed reading " Morbidly Obese People " here at What is Obesity?.com! The article " Morbidly Obese People " is provided for information only, and should not be taken as advice on any topic. Please read our Privacy