
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache
Content-Language: en
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 21:17:03 GMT
Connection: close
Set-Cookie: CCMSESSID=ce7d970cbf42fb6a47f9e8e48579e4f3a5cc4795; expires=Sun, 18-Mar-2012 21:17:03 GMT; path=/; domain=.kioskea.net; HttpOnly

Urinary tract infection | Kioskea Health Recherche Sign up for free Site map Language French English Spanish German RSS FAQ Login Identification Username Password ( forgot? ) High-Tech Health Home Forum FAQ Reviews Home › Reviews › Young mothers and children › Child › Urinary tract infection Print Urinary tract infection Article Table of contents Child Child health Allergies: the manifestations Allergies: Check-up and skin prick testing Dust mite allergy Cow milk allergy Peanut allergy Throat infection Tonsillectomy Asthma Bronchites Conjunctivitis Whooping-cough Laryngitis (Croup and Epiglottitis) Scabies Impetigo Parvovirus Infection (Erythema Infectiosum) Ear infection Recurrent otitis media Glue ear and Grommet insertion Urinary Tract Infection Chicken pox Head Lice Intestinal worms Common Cold Appendicitis Febrile convulsion German measles Measles Mumps Tweet Share A Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) is a frequent occurrence in children It affects girls more often than boys and more commonly in under 5's. It is caused by bacteria (germs) that get into the urine, usually from the bowel. An infection can be in the bladder or  higher up in the kidneys Symptoms of an urinary infection Urine test Treatment Causes of a urinary infection Vesico-ureteric reflux Preventing urinary infection Symptoms of an urinary infection The symptoms are few and do not resemble those of adults, thus making it difficult to diagnose. Fever Pale Lethargic Lack of appetite Break in weight gain curve Stomach pain and or low back pain. Vomiting Smelly and or cloudy urine Bed wetting or incontinence The pain when urinating, the typical symptom of a urinary tract infection in an adult, is not present, in most children cases. Urine test The diagnosis of a urinary infection is confirmed by a urine test.  This can be a a dip stick test in a clinic/GP setting and or hospital laboratory microbiological urine test. Treatment Antibiotics are nearly always given.  If left untreated a child can quickly become unwell and damage to the kidneys can occur. Fluids must be encouraged to help flush the bacteria (germs) away. Paracetamol for any pain and or fever is also important. Causes of a urinary infection Most urinary tract infections in children are a `one off' and just one of those things, but in repeated and severe infections further investigation is required. An renal ultrasound scan, specialist dye imaging scan (DMSA - dimercaptosuccinic acid) or a cystogram (MUCG - micturating cystourogram) must be done when atypical and recurrent UTI infections occur. The most common cause of recurrent UTI's in children is vesico-ureteric reflux. Vesico-ureteric reflux Vesico-ureteric reflux, the most common urological problem in a child.  Urine refluxes or flows up from the bladder back up the ureter to the kidney. It occurs in approximately 1 in 100 children, more so in girls than boys, especially the under 5's and if one sibling has a problem it is likely to occur in others. It causes repeated UTI's, and the same symptoms as listed above. Preventing urinary infection Baby: wash the genitals with each change of nappy. If older and cleans herself alone, help her or check that she cleaned herself completely. Teach little girls to wipe themselves from the front to the back in order to prevent bacteria in the anus reaching the vagina or the urethra thus limiting infection risk. Encourage children to drink plenty of fluids and not to hold on to urine when playing but to empty their bladder when it feels full. Last update on Thursday July 29, 2010 07:32:56 PM by Janey39 Tweet Share This document entitled « Urinary tract infection » from Kioskea ( health.kioskea.net ) is made available under the Creative Commons license. You can copy, modify copies of this page, under the conditions stipulated by the licence, as this note appears clearly. Glue ear and Grommet insertion Chicken pox Suggestions Urinary tract infection Adult bacterial Urinary Tract Infections: advice » Reviews Infant and child bacterial Urinary Tract Infections: advice » Reviews Bronchitis » Reviews Glue ear and Grommets » Reviews Appendicitis » Reviews The baby's return home » Reviews Whooping cough » Reviews Pelvic Floor Exercises and Urinary incontinence » Reviews Food-borne infections caused by toxoplasmosis and listeria » Reviews More See also More They need your help Arthritis and the immune system Health , 16/12 Symmetry of the heart Cardiology , 09/12 Immune system system Health , 09/12 Bandages Rheumatology , 06/12 All unanswered messages CCM-Benchmark Network en.kioskea.net Shortcuts Terms of Use About us Contact Charter Glossary A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 0-9 Recei