Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Overview: Urinary Incontinence in Adults, Clinical Practice Guideline Update Home Health - Incontinence - Childbirth - Kegels Secret Confidence Product Testimonials Order
      now Overview: Urinary
      Incontinence in Adults, Clinical Practice Guideline Update In 1992, the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research
      (AHCPR) released its first guideline on urinary incontinence. Since then
      the guideline has become the standard of care for incontinence in many
      settings across the country. This update of the guideline reflects new findings in
      the rapidly changing field of treatment for urinary incontinence. To
      develop the update, AHCPR convened a multidisciplinary private-sector
      panel of physicians, nurses, allied health professionals, and health care
      consumers to study the effectiveness of diagnostic and treatment
      procedures for urinary incontinence, their costs, and how they affect
      patient outcomes. The results of this research show that incontinence can
      be improved, and in some cases, even cured. Anecdotal evidence shows that
      long-term care facilities that have adopted the guideline have improved
      the quality of life of their patients and saved money at the same time. What Is Urinary Incontinence? Urinary incontinence (UI), or the unintentional loss of
      urine, is a problem for more than 13 million Americans—85 percent of
      them women. Although about half of the elderly have episodes of
      incontinence, bladder problems are not a natural consequence of aging, and
      they are not exclusively a problem of the elderly. Incontinence has several causes. Women are most likely
      to develop incontinence either during pregnancy and childbirth, or after
      the hormonal changes of menopause, because of weakened pelvic muscles.
      Older men can become incontinent as the result of prostate surgery. Pelvic
      trauma, spinal cord damage, caffeine, or medications including cold or
      over-the-counter diet tablets also can cause episodes of incontinence. But even though urinary incontinence can be improved in
      8 out of 10 cases, fewer than half of those with bladder problems ever
      discuss the condition with their health care professional. The condition
      often goes untreated. Facts About Incontinence 13 million Americans are incontinent; 11 million
          are women. 1 in 4 women ages 30-59 have experienced an episode
          of UI. 50% or more of the elderly persons living at home
          or in long-term care facilities are incontinent. $16.4 billion is spent every year on
          incontinence-related care: $11.2 billion for community-based programs
          and at home, and $5.2 billion in long-term care facilities. $1.1 billion is spent every year on disposable
          products for adults. Types and Causes of UI There are four common types of incontinence: 1. Stress incontinence happens when the bladder
      can't handle the increased compression during exercise, coughing, or
      sneezing. This kind of incontinence happens mostly to women under 60 and
      in men who have had prostate surgery. 2. Urge incontinence is caused by a sudden,
      involuntary bladder contraction. It is more common in older adults. 3. Mixed incontinence is a combination of both
      stress and urge incontinence, and is most common in older women. 4. Overflow incontinence , in which the bladder
      becomes too full because it can't be fully emptied, is rarer and is the
      result of bladder obstruction or injury. In men, it can be the result of
      an enlarged prostate. 5. Other factors can cause incontinence such as
      decreased mobility, cognitive impairment or medications. Treatment Recommendations Treatment for UI depends on the type of incontinence,
      its causes, and the capabilities of the patient. The guideline update
      recommends the following treatments: Pelvic Muscle Rehabilitation —to improve pelvic
      muscle tone and prevent leakage. Kegel exercises. Regular, daily exercising
          of pelvic muscles can improve, and even prevent, urinary incontinence.
          This is particularly helpful for younger women. Should be performed
          30-80 times daily for at least 8 weeks. Biofeedback. Used in conjunction with Kegel
          exercises, biofeedback helps people gain awareness and control of
          their pelvic muscles. Vaginal weight training. Small weights are
          held within the vagina by tightening the vaginal muscles. Should be
          performed for 15 minutes, twice daily, for 4 to 6 weeks. Pelvic floor electrical stimulation. Mild
          electrical pulses stimulate muscle contractions. Should be performed
          in conjunction with Kegel exercises. Behavioral Therapies —to help people regain
      control of their bladder. Bladder training teaches people to resist
          the urge to void and gradually expand the intervals between voiding. Toileting assistance uses routine or
          scheduled toileting, habit training schedules, and prompted voiding to
          empty the bladder regularly to prevent leaking. Pharmacologic Therapies —to improve
      incontinence medically. Oxybutynin (brand name Ditropan) prevents
          urge incontinence by relaxing sphincter muscles. Estrogen , either oral or vaginal, may
          be helpful in conjunction with other treatments for postmenopausal
          women with UI. Surgical Therapies —to treat specific
      anatomical problems. Sling procedures, bulking injections (such
          as collagen) and other surgical procedures support or move the bladder
          to improve continence. Treatment Recommendations for the Chronically
      Incontinent Although many people will improve their continence
      through treatment, some will never become completely dry. They may need to
      take medications that cause incontinent episodes or have cognitive or
      physical impairments that keep them from being able to perform pelvic
      muscle exercises or retrain their bladders. Many will be cared for in
      long-term care facilities or at home. The guideline update makes the
      following recommendations to help caregivers keep the chronically
      incontinent drier and reduce their cost of care: Scheduled toileting —take people to the
          toilet every 2 to 4 hours or according to their toilet habits. Prompted voiding —check for dryness
          and encourage use of the toilet. Improved access to toilets —use
          equipment such as canes, walkers, wheelchairs, and devices that raise
          the seating level of toilets to make toileting easier. Managing fluids and diet —eliminate
          dietary caffeine (for those with urge incontinence) and encourage
          adequate fiber in the diet. Disposable absorbent garments —use to
          keep people dry. Education The guideline recommends that patients and
      professionals learn about the different treatment options for
      incontinence. Patients and their families should know that
          incontinence is not inevitable or shameful but is treatable or at
          least manageable. All management alternatives should be explained. Professional education about UI evaluation
          and treatment should be included in the basic curricula of
          undergraduate and graduate training programs of all health care
          providers, as well as continuing education programs. For Further Information Alliance for Aging Research 2021 K Street, N.W., Suite 305 Washington, DC 20006 (202) 293-2856 Bladder Health Council c/o American Foundation for Urologic Disease 300 West Pratt Street, Suite 401 Baltimore, MD 21201 (410) 727-2908 National Association For Continence (formerly Help for Incontinent People) P.O. Box 8310 Spartanburg, SC 29305 (800) BLADDER or (800) 252-3337 Simon Foundation for Continence Box 835 Wilmette, IL 60091 (800) 23-SIMON (800) 237-4666 Health Incontinence Childbirth Confidence Product Order
            now Jade
        Eggs Exercises Home Health Secret Confidence Product Testimonial FAQ | Order
        now 60
  days 100% money back guarantee . Worldwide shipment with UPS Please read our customer policy or F