Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Women Health | Acupuncture Dallas TX Home About Dr Services Specialties Testimonials FAQ Herbs Contact acupuncture dallas DR. LIN ZHOU, O.M.D., L.AC. FABORM Our Practice Infertility -- Infertility & IVF Support -- Unexplained Infertility -- High FSH & Poor Egg Quality -- PCOS -- Relaxed Conception -- Endometriosis -- Pregnancy First Trimester -- Fertility & Diet -- Fertility & Lifestyle -- Scientific Studies -- Chinese Herbal Medicine Women's Health -- Women of All Ages -- Menstruation -- Menopause Pain Management -- How Acupuncture Helps Pain -- Back Pain -- Headaches & Migraines -- Endometriosis Allergies Depression, Anxiety & Insomnia Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Facial Rejuvenation Stop Smoking Cancer Care Site Map Recent Studies Research Shows Chinese Herbal Formula is Effective for Use in Treating PCOS in Women This finding indicates that wen-jing-tang Chinese herbal formula is appropriate for use in treating PCOS in women with various constitutions Revitalize Your Health with Acupuncture and Nutrition Preventive medicine is defined as the part of medicine engaged with preventing disease rather than curing it. Electro-Acupuncture Increases Blood Flow to Testis Acupuncture point and frequency-specific effects of abdominal EA on Testicular Blood Flow are shown in humans. Acupuncture for the IVF Poor Responders Conclusions: Significant increases in pregnancy outcomes were confirmed by this study and the data uniquely supported the advantage of acupuncture in patients with normal Pulsatility index. We also demonstrated that both acupuncture treatment protocols could be used together with a synergistic effect. Evaluating Acupuncture as an Adjunct to IVF Conclusions: Our study shows a significantly lower amount of gonadotropins used when IVF is combined with standard acupuncture. A 70% pregnancy rate was also achieved with standard acupuncture and IVF, compared to 25%. Larger prospective trials are necessary. Point Newsletter Alleviate Your Stress with Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine As a normal part of life, stress enables us to get things done. If left unmanaged, stress can lead to emotional, psychological, and even physical problems... Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture A neurological disorder refers to a problem with the nervous system, which is... About Depression Mental and emotional  problems can interfere with one's life in every aspect. Acupuncture for Fibromyalgia Syndrome Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) affects an estimated 2 percent of the population. Conventional therapies are limited in the success of treating The unique advantage of Chinese Medicine for Infertility Traditional Chinese medicine has been used to treat infertility for almost two thousand years.  The significant results have drawn more attention nowadays Acupuncture and Menopause: Creating Physical and Emotional Health with Acupuncture With its close understanding of the female body, Oriental medicine has always addressed the special needs of women throughout their lives. Archives Infertility | IVF (10) Menstruation | Menopause (5) Pains (12) Allergies (2) Depression | Anxiety (2) Others (7) Acupuncture Helps Women Medical research and clinic evidence show that most women’s health issues can be overcome solely or primarily by the use of acupuncture and herbal medicine. For many years, Dr. Lin Zhou has found, both through her research and practical experience, that acupuncture and herbal medicine has been extremely effective in dealing with a wide variety of conditions by empowering the mind and the body’s own healing response. More and more of her patients are exploring acupuncture and herbal medicine as an alternative path to health and well-being and are experiencing positive results. For women in early life, acupuncture and herbal medicine greatly enhance vitality and prevent and/or eliminate stagnation of energy, which is one of major causes of menstrual cramps, fibroid tumors, PMS, endometriosis , etc. For women trying to get pregnant, acupuncture and herbal medicine promote conception by boosting blood flow to the pelvic organs, providing them with better nourishment, normalizing FSH levels, balancing estrogen and progesterone levels and improving and strengthening the lining of the uterus. Thus promoting conception and a healthy, full-term pregnancy (see infertility ). For women in menopause , acupuncture and herbal medicine not only eliminate hot flashes, night sweats and sugar cravings, promote weight loss and better sleep patterns, relieve pain and emotional stress, and stabilize mood swings, they also minimize osteoporosis and poor mental function. Studies show that both acupuncture and hormone replacement therapy (HRT) produce comparable changes in estrogen levels, but only acupuncture increases the level of both thyroid stimulating hormone, which speeds up metabolism, and testosterone (male hormone), which may help prevent breast cancer and bone density loss. Site Search In The News Traditional Chinese Medicine Improves Infertility Treatment Success Traditional Chinese medicine has long been used to ease pain and treat disease. Now researchers have found it can also boost fertility if used in combination with fertility treatments. Surprising Causes of Male Infertility a number of lifestyle choices, environmental factors and chance events can sabotage the sperm. Latest Posts Anovulation Cycles I always thought it would  take me a long time to get pregnant and that I would need invasive procedures  or medical assistance since I had not had a regular period in almost 2 years. Two Failed IVF Cycles, Blocked Fallopian Tube and Conceived Naturally My journey to pregnancy consisted of over two years of fertility treatments and a lot of heartbreak until I met Dr. Zhou. Conceived Naturally with Only One Fallopian Tube, Irregular Cycles and a Failed IVF Acupuncture brought the bliss and peace to our lives which has been a constant turmoil since 3 years. Natural Conceived at Late 30's I had a hard time getting pregnant when my husband and I started. We are both in our late 30’s and we thought we had everything planned. 40 Years Old, Elevated NK Cell Thin Uterine Lining & a Full Term Pregnancy My experience with Dr Zhou and acupuncture was amazing. At the beginning of 2006 we had been trying to conceive for a year. Naturally Conceived with Luteal Phase Defect In October, 2009, my husband and I had suffered an early miscarriage. I was 35   and my husband 39 - and "at our age," we knew we might have problems conceiving   again - and maintaining a pregnancy. PCOS, Naturally Conceived after Many Drug Cycle Failures I share with you my story and the way Dr. Zhou helped me realize my biggest dream: to be a mother. Getting Pregnant Naturally - IVF Poor Responder After a stillbirth at 36 weeks of pregnancy (conceived by IUI) and 6 attempted IUI/IVF cycles, my husband and I were feeling hopeless. I Got Pregnant Naturally When My FSH Level Over 80 About three years ago, my husband and I decided to have a second baby. 40 Years Old, a Full Term Pregnancy after a Miscarriage I was 39 when we decided to try a second time to have a child. My first pregnancy ended in a miscarriage, and recovery was difficult Fertile Land Fertility: Knowing Hope Have you ever thought about how many times you think the words 'I hope'? How Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM) Enhances Fertility TCM describes the female reproductive system as a network of energy systems. Each energy system has complementary organs and hormonal responses. Acupuncture, Fertility Research Delivers Healthy Results Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has been practiced for thousands of years. Amazingly, the first written gynecological records date back to the Shang dynasty (1500 BC- 1000 BC) Acupuncture: A Cure for Infertility? - Fox News New York - At 36, Lucy Appert has suffered through two miscarriages, a stillbirth at 8 1/2 months and, because of a rare pregnancy-related liver dysfunction © 2004 - 2011 All Rights R