<http://wp.me/p1UnzO-f8>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Cookie,User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
X-Pingback: http://www.mysquirrelbait.com/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Fri, 04 May 2012 14:14:03 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Honey has Many Benefits and They Really Work My Squirrel Bait Alternative Treatments Crohn’s Disease Essential Oils Exercise Fibromyalgia Herbal Supplements & Vitamins Pain Relief & Medications You are here: Home » Food and Recipes » Honey has Many Benefits Honey has Many Benefits Written by linda on January 17, 2012 · Leave a Comment Many Varieties of Honey Honey .  It has so many benefits.  They range from its sweet, delectable taste to the many health benefits it offers. Buckwheat honey worked better than cough syrup when it was used on 105 kids ages 2 – 18.  It also helped them sleep better.  It was given half an hour before bedtime in the following doses:  Ages 2 – 5: 1/2 tsp. honey; Ages 6 – 11 1 tsp. honey; ages 12 – 18 2 tsp. honey.  The source of this information is the Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine . When honey is combined with Vitamin C it boosts your immunity and will help you stay healthy year round.  Dr. Mark Moyad says “They have a synergistic effect” and that if you eat lots of citrus fruits 500 mg of vitamin C should be enough.  He also says that if you don’t eat citrus you should take 1000 mg of vitamin C.  This information comes from his book No BS Health Advice. Use honey on your toast in the morning to give you the energy you need.  It’s a great replacement for the high energy drink you might reach for.Take a teaspoon of honey before you go for your workout.  You’ll have the energy you need to do more. Honey, butter, and ham sandwiches make a great energy source for kids in school; so does mixing honey in their water bottle. It has properties that will help prevent certain cancers – Not Cure but PREVENT. Honey has been used to treat yeast infections, arthritis pain, athlete’s foot, and many other common ailments.  It’s an antibacterial that works great on sore throats and for wound healing. Honey even works for hangovers!  Mix 15ml of liquid honey with 80ml of orange juice and 70ml of natural yogurt. Blend them together until smooth. It’s gentle on the stomach and contains the sugars that speed up elimination of the alcohol in your system. Adding honey to warm milk or chamomile tea will help you sleep better.  (Boy do I need that one). The list of honey benefits goes on and on and I have used honey for many of them.  IT REALLY DOES WORKS! Honey Benefits Categories: Food and Recipes - Tags: Alternative treatments , Digestive Aids , Fibromyalgia , Food and Recipes , Pain relief , Sleep , Weight Control Leave A Comment... Cancel reply Name * Email * Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Recent Posts How Long Did it Take to Make the World Shoes for Fibromyalgia Patients Charley Horses are a Real Pain Cruising and Seniors Is Changing Fibromyalgia Medications a Good Thing Recent Comments Irvika on Fibromyalgia Meltdown, My Day Today skys daughter on Brain Scans Detect Fibromyalgia tracey on Brain Scans Detect Fibromyalgia » Fliers! Pain Awareness Month on Brain Scans Detect Fibromyalgia Arlene Carmody on Brain Scans Detect Fibromyalgia Archives May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. Join 6 other subscribers Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Disclaimer | Privacy 