
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 21:01:48 GMT
Server: LiteSpeed
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.spicendipity.com/xmlrpc.php
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Daily Basis  |  Spice N Dip It Y Spice N Dip It Y Tag Archives Daily Basis Cinnamon, Diabetes, and the Effect of Cinnamon Extract on Stomach Fat Posted on January 31, 2012 by admin Comment (Published for 64 days) When most people think of cinnamon, they think of the tasty stuff on top of their morning latte. But cinnamon is so much more than just something you sprinkle on your coffee or add to your cookies. In fact, recent studies into the effect of cinnamon extract on stomach fat have shown that if you consistently add cinnamon to your daily diet, you can not only gain better mental clarity, but you will also lose more belly fat. Long ago, all around the world, this fantastic little spice was used as a medicine, but in recent days, it seems, we have forgotten about it’s amazing properties. But that’s all begun to change. There have been several studies into the effect that it has on your body, with some amazing findings. Recent studies have shown that cinnamon extract will -Improve brain function, memory recall, and allow you to process information faster. -help prevent stomach ulcers and other common stomach ailments. -Help reduce common anxiety, such as test anxiety. -Destroy the bacteria responsible for urinary tract infections. -Kills the fungus responsible for yeast infections. -Naturally lowers your LDL (Bad) cholesterol But there’s so much more. This spice has actually been proven to help improve blood glucose levels, lessen the effects of type 2 diabetes and reduce tummy flab. Cinnamon does this by reducing blood sugar levels, lowering the effects of insulin resistance (a condition most of us are dealing with on a daily basis) and increasing the body’s natural production of insulin. So, with all of this research, HOW does it reduce your belly? One of the biggest contributors to obesity today is the condition called insulin resistance, a condition where our bodies don’t feel the natural effects of insulin, so we over produce it and eventually, stop producing enough (type 2 diabetes). When cinnamon lowers our blood sugars, it tells our body to go ahead and start burning some fat. It also helps improve energy, which is generally low when your blood sugars are elevated. Stomach fat is especially affected by cinnamon because it is very sensitive to insulin levels. A reduced blood sugar will almost always mean a smaller belly. Here are a few simple ways to use this spice to improve your health (anywhere from This entry was posted in Cinnamon and tagged Daily Basis , Production Of Insulin , Urinary Tract Infections . Bookmark the permalink . Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 blogrol easycgi review asian business international loans Japanes