
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 21:51:52 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_fcgid/2.3.6
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Cache-Control: private
Pragma: private
X-UA-Compatible: IE=7
Set-Cookie: bblastvisit=1331438814; expires=Mon, 11-Mar-2013 21:51:52 GMT; path=/; domain=.stemcellpioneers.com
Set-Cookie: bblastactivity=0; expires=Mon, 11-Mar-2013 21:51:52 GMT; path=/; domain=.stemcellpioneers.com
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Boost magnesium levels with epsom salt baths [Archive]  - Stem Cell Pioneers Stem Cell Pioneers > Consultation Corner > Diet and Nutrition >  Boost magnesium levels with epsom salt baths PDA View Full Version : Boost magnesium levels with epsom salt baths barbara 09-12-2009, 10:42 PM By Melissa Breyer, Senior Editor, Healthy & Green Living Many of us are deficient in magnesium, and by simply soaking in a relaxing bath with magnesium-rich Epsom salt we can boost our levels of this important element. ?Magnesium,? you might wonder, ?what?s the big deal?? Find out the importance of magnesium and discover the many surprising health benefits of using Epsom salt in your bath. We all know about the importance of iron and calcium, but what about magnesium? It is the second-most abundant element in human cells and the fourth-most important positively charged ion in the body. Surprisingly, it helps the body regulate over 325 enzymes and plays an important role in organizing many bodily functions, like muscle control, electrical impulses, energy production and the elimination of harmful toxins. According to the National Academy of Sciences, most Americans are magnesium deficient, which the academy says helps to account for high rates of heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, arthritis and joint pain, digestive maladies, stress-related illnesses, chronic fatigue and a number of other ailments. Who knew?! Americans? magnesium levels have dropped by half in the last century due to changes in agriculture and diet. Industrial farming has depleted magnesium from soil and the typical American diet contains much less magnesium than that of our forefathers. And in fact, the modern American diet with its fat, sugar, salt and protein actually works to speed up the depletion of magnesium from our bodies. Interestingly, our focus on getting enough calcium is another factor in decreased magnesium levels. In a delicate dance of balance, calcium depletes magnesium yet calcium functions best when enough magnesium is present. Studies indicate that taking a calcium supplement without enough magnesium can increase the shortage of both nutrients. Researchers have found that many Americans have five times as much calcium as magnesium in their bodies, although the proper ratio for optimum absorption of both minerals is two to one. With such widespread magnesium deficiency one might think that magnesium supplements would be called upon, but studies show that magnesium is not easily absorbed through the digestive tract. The presence of specific foods or drugs, certain medical conditions, and the chemistry of a person?s stomach acid can render magnesium supplements ineffective. This brings us to Epsom salt. Known scientifically as hydrated magnesium sulfate, Epsom salt is rich in both magnesium and sulfate. While both magnesium and sulfate can be poorly absorbed through the stomach, studies show increased magnesium levels from soaking in a bath enriched with Epsom salt! Magnesium and sulfate are both easily absorbed through the skin. Sulfates play an important role in the formation of brain tissue, joint proteins and the proteins that line the walls of the digestive tract. They stimulate the pancreas to generate digestive enzymes and are thought to help detoxify the body of medicines and environmental contaminants. Researchers and physicians suggest these health benefits from proper magnesium and sulfate levels, as listed on the web site of the Epsom Salt Industry Council: * Improved heart and circulatory health, reducing irregular heartbeats, preventing hardening of the arteries, reducing blood clots and lowering blood pressure. * Improved ability for the body to use insulin, reducing the incidence or severity of diabetes. * Flushed toxins and heavy metals from the cells, easing muscle pain and helping the body to eliminate harmful substances. * Improved nerve function by electrolyte regulation. Also, calcium is the main conductor for electrical current in the body, and magnesium is necessary to maintain proper calcium levels in the blood. * Relieved stress. Excess adrenaline and stress are believed to drain magnesium, a natural stress reliever, from the body. Magnesium is necessary for the body to bind adequate amounts of serotonin, a mood-elevating chemical within the brain that creates a feeling of well being and relaxation. * Reduced inflammation to relieve pain and muscle cramps. * Improved oxygen use. * Improved absorption of nutrients. * Improved formation of joint proteins, brain tissue and mucin proteins. * Prevention or easing of migraine headaches. All this from a bath, hurray! While there are many different brands of Epsom salt, they are all the same product chemically, and can be found at most drug stores. Add two cups of Epsom salt and soak for at least 12 minutes. Do this three times weekly. If you are pregnant or have any health concerns, check with your doctor before using Epsom salts. gfergo9 09-15-2009, 06:22 PM BARB Yes, I agree that Mg is essential for good health! I buy Mg in pure liquid form(concentrate) and put it in her H20. Aside from all the benefits you listed, the other important one that it helps a lot, is keeping her "regular". This is extremely important for PD patients, as constipation is an enemy for PWP. Also, I occasionally rub her legs with Mg salts(called ancients minerals);-this is usually equivalent in giving her 100mg by mouth. George vBullet