
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2012 20:04:24 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: Mono
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Donate | Contact Us | Events | Home By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV By Topic Policy Research Process Ethics Community Engagement Current Research Global Map Timeline Trials Clinical Site Capacity Database Px Wire Anticipating Results Hormonal Contraceptives and HIV Risk Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications Educational Materials Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Advocates' Corner Take Action Advocates' Network P-Values Weekly NewsDigest Calendar of Events The Omololu Falobi Award Links For Media Press Releases AVAC in the News Media Inquiries About AVAC Our Story Programs Staff Donors Board AVAC Fund Support AVAC Financial Information Jobs Quick Links By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV Share Print Thank you so much for taking the time to
complete the survey. We hope that it will
ensure our time together in Nairobi is very
well spent! Please find below some answers and
background information on some of the
information covered in the survey. AVAC Partners’ Forum 2011 Pre-forum survey Answers Knowledge 1. Pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV
prevention - or PrEP - is: (a) A 4-week course of antiretroviral drugs
(ARVs) that is started within 72 hours after
potential HIV exposure (e.g., unprotected sex
with someone of unknown HIV status) to lower or
eliminate chances of HIV infection (b) An injection or series of injections
that HIV-negative individuals receive once in
their lifetime to reduce risk of HIV infection
in case of future exposure (c) An approach where HIV-negative people
would use ARVs regularly to reduce the risk of
acquiring HIV infection (d) All of the above Answer: (c) An approach where HIV-negative
people would use ARVs regularly to reduce the
risk of acquiring HIV infection Option (a) refers to the strategy known as
PEP, or post-exposure prophylaxis. PEP is a
short-course regimen of a combination of ARVs,
which are meant to reduce the risk of infection
after a potential exposure. Regarding option
(b), there is a small-scale study of injectable
PrEP but it is not likely that it would confer
lifetime protection. For more information on PrEP for HIV
prevention, visit www.avac.org/prep . 2. Microbicides are being
tested: (a) As gels, creams and films (b) For vaginal and rectal use (c) As vaginal rings (d) All of the above (a) and (c) only Answer: (d) All of the above For more on the range of microbicides
being tested visit www.avac.org/microbicides ;
for more on rectal microbicide research see the
International Rectal Microbicides Advocates
website at www.rectalmicrobicides.org ;
and for more on vaginal ring studies visit www.ipmglobal.org . 3. The term “clinical trial” refers
to: (a) A trial of an experimental product
conducted in animals (b) An investigation into whether a study
followed international ethics guidelines (c) A trial conducted in humans to
determine unknown characteristics of either an
experimental or a licensed product or
intervention (a) and (c) Answer: (c) A trial conducted in humans to
determine unknown characteristics of either an
experimental or a licensed product or
intervention Clinical trials, by definition, are
conducted in humans. The term clinical can be
associated with the function of the human body.
Animal studies are referred to as pre-clinical
studies, because they happen before a product
goes into human testing. For more on the clinical trials process
visit www.avac.org/ht/d/sp/i/298/pid/298 . 4. Male circumcision: (a) Was proven in three different
randomized clinical trials to reduce the risk
of HIV in heterosexual men by 39 percent (b) Has been proven to protect the
circumcised male’s female partner from HIV
infection (c) Has religious and cultural ties that
will need to be considered as countries and
communities roll it out (d) Is currently being studied in several
randomized controlled trials around the world
to verify initial efficacy data from African
countries Answer: (c) Has religious and cultural ties
that will need to be considered as countries
and communities roll it out In some communities (many of which are in
areas of sub-Saharan Africa where male
circumcision is being rolled out), male
circumcision has strong cultural ties. It can
be a rite of passage for young men into
adulthood, or part of a tradition in infant
boys—both are rooted in local culture and/or
religion. There are no data on the HIV
prevention effect of traditional male
circumcision, only medical male circumcision.
For more on medical male circumcision for HIV
prevention, visit www.malecircumcision.org Randomized clinical trials on male
circumcision showed a reduction in risk of
infection by approximately 60 percent, not 39
percent as per answer (a). Circumcision has not
proven to be protective for women; see more
information on implications for women at: http://malecircumcision.org/advocacy/male_circumcision_advocacy_women.html .
Longer-term outcomes of male circumcision are
being followed in original trial cohorts; these
are observational studies, however, and because
the effectiveness of male circumcision has been
proven, they are not conducted as randomized
controlled trials. 5. True/False: Data Safety Monitoring
Boards normally include members of the research
team conducting the trial in review. Answer: False The role of the Data Safety Monitoring Board
(DSMB) is to periodically review blinded data
during the course of a trial. An important
aspect of a DSMB or similar monitoring body is
that each of the members are independent of the
trial and are able to more objectively review
the data and trial conduct to ensure that the
trial is proceeding ethically. It is also
important that investigators remain blinded to
the data to avoid bias. For more on the role of DSMBs in research,
visit www.avac.org/dsmb . 6. True/False: Male condoms were not
tested for prevention of HIV transmission in
randomized controlled clinical
trials. Answer: True After HIV was identified as being
transmitted through sexual intercourse, condoms
were one of the first interventions recommended
to reduce risk of infection. This
recommendation, which has averted countless
infections, was not based on a randomized
trial. However, condom effectiveness for STD
and HIV prevention has been demonstrated by
both laboratory and epidemiologic studies.
Evidence of condom effectiveness is also based
on theoretical and empirical data regarding the
transmission of different STDs, the physical
properties of condoms, and the anatomic
coverage or protection provided by
condoms. For more about condom effectiveness, please
visit, www.cdc.gov/condomeffectiveness/brief.html 7. True/False: If all participants in a
trial are provided with standard HIV prevention
tools, researchers won’t be able to tell if
the experimental intervention (e.g.
microbicide) works. Answer: False Participants in effectiveness trials are
ethically required to receive the existing
package of proven HIV prevention methods
including things like treatment for sexually
transmitted infections, condoms, and behavior
change counseling. Some of the participants are
randomly assigned to receive the experimental
product, while the other participants receive a
placebo, a “dummy” product that has no
effect on the body. No participant knows
whether he or she is receiving the experimental
vaccine or placebo. Over the course of the
trial, some participants get infected even
though they are being counseled and receiving
prevention services. This is consistent with
what we know about the AIDS epidemic: even with
information and services, not everyone can
protect himself or herself all the time. At the end of the trial, researchers compare
the rates of new infections in the participants
who received the experimental product and in
those who received the placebo. If there are
significantly fewer new infections in the
experimental group, that is, if the difference
is greater than that which can be attributed by
chance, this suggests that the product is
beneficial. See a training session, "Clinical
Trials – How Do We Know if a Product
Works?” that fully explains this
concept. 8. True/False: Some microbicides and
vaccines contain HIV. Answer: False Myths may circulate in some places about
microbicides and/or vaccines containing HIV,
but this is not true. AIDS vaccines and
microbicides DO NOT contain HIV. Some vaccines
used against other diseases (e.g., yellow
fever) do use weakened forms of the organism
they fight; however, this approach is not used
in HIV vaccine development. Only manufactured
copies of small pieces of genetic material from
HIV are used in vaccine candidates – these
cannot cause HIV infection. 9. True/False: In some clinical trials,
the research team conducting the study knows
who is in the intervention arm and who is in
the control arm. Answer: True While most HIV prevention trials are
double-blinded (meaning that neither the
researcher nor the participant knows who is in
the intervention arm and who is in the placebo
arm), this is not always the case. For
instance, there is no way circumcision trials
could be blinded since the intervention
involves a surgical procedure. Outside of the
field of HIV prevention research, many studies
are either single-blinded or not blinded at
all; for instance, this is the case in many
studies comparing different types of treatment
where it would be unethical for patients not to
know what treatment regimen they were
receiving. 10. Which of the following is true with
regard to HIV vaccine research? (a) Vaccinations were discontinued in a
late-stage trial in 2007 because interim data
indicated that more people in the vaccine group
were becoming HIV-infected than in the placebo
group (b) The most recently completed large-scale
efficacy trial, which ended in 2009 and was
conducted in Thailand, showed that the
candidate vaccine reduced the risk of HIV
infection by approximately 31 percent (c) No vaccine in clinical testing can give
you HIV infection (d) All of the above. (b) and (c) only Answer: (d) All of the above For more on AIDS vaccine basics and
background, visit www.avac.org/vaccines; for
more on the Step trial (referenced in option
(a)) visit www.avac.org/vax_update.htm ;
for more on the RV144 trial visit www.avac.org/rv144 ;
and see above (question 8) for more on why no
AIDS vaccine can cause HIV infection. 11. If someone asked you if PrEP
prevents HIV infection, how would you answer?
Give a brief explanation. Data from the iPreX study (released November
2010) shows us that a once-daily regimen of the
treatment drug TDF/FTC (also known as Truvada)
is 44 percent effective at reducing the risk of
HIV infection in gay men and transgender women.
(For more information visit
www.avac.org/iprex.) However, we do not yet
know if PrEP works in other populations, with
other drugs, or with TDF/FTC in regimens other
than daily dosing. There are a number of other
trials ongoing looking at the safety and
effectiveness of PrEP in other populations and
other regimens. So, we know that PrEP is partially effective
in the MSM population, but we don’t know if
it is in any other population. For details on ongoing PrEP trials and
results visit www.avac.org/trials/prep . 12. In your own words, describe what you
understand the term “treatment as
prevention” to mean. This is an interesting term as it can mean
different things to different people. Some
people see it as an umbrella term for ARV-based
HIV prevention – for example the use of
ARV-based microbicides, PrEP in HIV-negative
people to prevent HIV infection and also use of
ensuring more HIV-positive people use ARVs to
reduce passing HIV on. However, generally
“Treatment as prevention” is used to
describe the use of ARVs by HIV-positive people
to reduce the risk of them passing HIV to
others. The strategy would function as a
secondary benefit of antiretroviral treatment
after its primary purpose of improving an
individual’s health. The recent HPTN 052
trial provided evidence to this – that
starting HIV-positive people much earlier on
ARVs reduced passing on HIV to their partners
within discordant couples. For more on these results and treatment as
prevention generally visit www.avac.org/treatmentasprevention . 13. Describe how you would explain
the concept of partial efficacy (as in, ‘The
trial showed that the microbicide was partially
effective’) to someone with limited or no
understanding of research. Include helpful
analogies or other creative explanations if
possible. We are especially interested in how people
explain this complicated term so we look
forward to your responses. It may be useful to think of partial
efficacy/effectiveness as partial protection.
This means that the product will not provide
100% effectiveness. It can reduce the risk of
infection by a certain amount, let say 30% or
60%. This is possible because a variety of
factors affect our immune systems and, by
extension, our ability to respond to a vaccine
or a microbicide. If a product is partially effective, that
means the user is not guaranteed to receive the
effect it’s supposed to have. The result is
that only a certain fraction of the population
who gets the product or intervention will stay
or become healthy (depending on what the
product is supposed to do). One analogy is the following. Whenever you
have a headache, you take a pain reliever
(aspirin, panadol, etc.). However, the pill
does not always make your headache go away. Or,
imagine that you and a friend both have a
headache. You both take the same pain reliever,
and your friend’s headache goes away, but
yours does not. There are many other factors,
e.g. severity of one headache over another or
other conditions of the body, that influence
whether the pain reliever will actually relieve
the headache. It’s important to remember that most
drugs, vaccines, and other interventions we
know are partially effective. We know that
existing and new HIV prevention methods are or
will be partially effective. Products that have
less that 100% effectiveness can still have a
significant impact on the HIV epidemic,
particularly in cases where consistent condom
use is not feasible. Site Map | Links | Jobs | Disclaimer | Webmaster | © 2012 AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Lima | New York | Rio | London | Johannesburg | Nairobi | Delhi | Bangkok | Sydney AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention 101 West 23rd Street · New York, NY +1 212.796.6423 (main) · avac@avac.org Copyright 2012,  All rights reserved. Design by Lo