<http://www.becomenatural.com/blog/?p=785>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent

Herbal Teas that would help you manage your insomnia :: BecomeNatural.com Home Forum About Archives Contact Contribute Healthy life 30 Jun 2008 12:14 pm Herbal Teas that would help you manage your insomnia Submitted by Dr Hemingway Passionflower (Passiflora incarnate) Passion flower is calming and sleep inducing, relieves pain, and muscular spasms. It is useful for the treatment of general insomnia, insomnia in asthmatics, hysteria, cramps, and nerve pain. Passionflower was widely used by the Aztecs as a sedative and analgesic. Its constituents include harmine. Harmine was originally known as telepathine because of its peculiar ability to induce a contemplative state and mild euphoria. It was later used by the Germans in World War II as “truth serum.” Harmine and related compounds can inhibit the breakdown of serotonin, therefore their use with 5-HTP would have an additive effect. How to Use: Take 30–60 drops of tincture forty-five minutes before bed. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) Valerian is relaxing and sleep inducing, relieves spasms, calms the digestion, and lowers blood pressure. It is useful for severe insomnia and insomnia accompanied by pain, cramps, intestinal pain, wind, menstrual pain, tension, anxiety, and over-excitability. Valerian can bring on a restful sleep without morning sleepiness or other side effects or dangers of addiction. Studies have shown that valerian has an extremely beneficial effect among poor or irregular sleepers (particularly women), and in people having difficulty falling asleep. Valerian has been widely used in folk medicine as a sedative and antihypertensive. Clinical studies have substantiated valerian’s ability to improve sleep quality and relieve insomnia. In one study, valerian showed a significant effect compared to the placebo, with forty-four percent reporting perfect sleep and eighty-nine percent reporting improved sleep. In another double-blind study of insomniacs, twenty subjects received either a combination of valerian root extract (160 mg) and Melissa officinalis extract (80 mg), benzodiazepine (triazolam 0.125 mg), or a placebo. In the insomniac group, the valerian/melissa preparation showed an effect comparable to that of the benzodiazepines, as well as an ability to increase deep-sleep stages 3 and 4. The valerian/melissa preparation did not, however, cause any daytime sleepiness, and there was no evidence of diminished concentration or impairment of physical performance. How To Use: Brew valerian tea or take about 20 drops of tincture in water at bedtime; experiment to find the dosage that suits you best. Valerian, like any sleeping aid, acts as a central nervous system depressant and should not be used every night. Take the tea about forty-five minutes before bedtime. Caution: Valerian does not suit every one. Can occasionally cause excitement. Do not exceed recommended dosage. Jamaica Dogwood (Piscidia piscipula) Jamaica dogwood is calming, eases pain and disturbing persistent thoughts Jamaica dogwood is good for insomnia caused by nervous tension, pain, or menstrual pain. Can take this herb orally (by mouth) or in a herbal bath. Dosage: In decoction, can be combined with hops and valerian. Caution: This is a powerful remedy; do not exceed the recommended dosage. Hops (Humulus lupulus) Hops is relaxing, sleep-inducing, and antiseptic. It is good for general insomnia, especially tension or anxiety-related, or associated with restlessness, indigestion or headaches. Hops can be mixed with chamomile in equal parts. Use by mouth or in bath. Caution: Do not take if depressed. Do not take during the first three months of pregnancy. Californian Poppy (Eschscholtzia Californica) Californian poppy is sleep-inducing, relieves pain, and quietens disturbed feelings. It is good for menopausal insomnia, excitable ; and sleepless children, anxiety. Dosage: In infusion or two to four ml of tincture or two capsules before bedtime. Chamomile (Chamaemelum nobile) Chamomile is relaxing, eases digestion, relieves spasm, pain-relieving and antiseptic, helps to heal wounds. Chamomile is a gentle remedy. It is good for anxiety, indigestion, inflammation, and catarrh. Chamomile tea is a mild sedative. It can be mixed with hops in equal parts. Can be taken orally (By mouth) or externally ( in bath). Sources: Holistic On Line , Gaias Garden Related Posts Alternative and Integral Therapies with Herbs Insomnia, generalities Insomnia, symptoms and consequences Types of Insomnia Natural Remedies for Insomnia Medications For Beating Insomnia Best of BecomeNatural: Hair loss, natural ways and homemade remedies in order to achieve hair recovery Natural and Homemade Hair Care Naturism (Nudism), a way of life Natural Penis Enlargment, FAQ and proven methods Natural Brown (Raw) Sugar vs Brown Sugar vs White Sugar Kegel exercices for men, fighting premature ejaculation Naked Yoga, a naturist and spiritual practice Beauty treatment, homemade and natural skin cleansers HDL - Good Cholesterol, natural ways to increase it Real Milk vs Commercial Milk Natural and homemade skin care Red wine vs White wine: why not both? Wind Energy (eolic energy) Caffeine addiction, how to quit it Natural remedies and solutions for allergies Whole Milk vs Low fat Milk, to be or not to be Diabetes, the silent enemy What is Mesothelioma? Web this site Categories: Awareness and growth (102) Beauty and balance (79) Diseases (196) Ecology (87) Healthy life (252) Healthy Recipes (35) Nutrition & Diets (200) Pets (29) Scientific Advances (85) Self Sufficiency (16) Therapies (168) Subscribe in a reader Blogroll Links Alternative Medicine Zone Health Topic - Online resource for Natural Medicine Healthoma - A really complete blog carnival about Health recycling - The Priginal Premier FREE giveaway website Weight loss tips - top weight loss tips for healthy weight loss Your Natural Remedies Co