
Magnesium-Calcium Plus 2:1 Ratio | Jigsaw Health Magnesium Calcium Supplements Magnesium and calcium are two of the most important minerals for the health of the human body. Magnesium and calcium work together, calcium stimulating nerves and magnesium relaxing them. Magnesium has been called "nature's calcium channel blocker" because of its ability to block calcium from cells (like muscle and heart cells) when they don't need more calcium. Avoid magnesium calcium supplements that combine the two into a single supplement. These are not as absorbable or effective as taking a sustained release magnesium supplement and a separate calcium supplement daily.* Magnesium Calcium Imbalance Running low on magnesium and calcium is rather common in this modern age. Most often, people run lower on magnesium, creating an imbalance between the two important minerals. It's important to get a full RDI of magnesium and calcium every day to level out a magnesium and calcium imbalance. It's very important to take enough magnesium to balance out the calcium you get from your diet and/or supplements. Generally, a ratio of 2:1 (calcium to magnesium) or 1:1 is optimal for the proper function of these two critical minerals. Support a healthy magnesium calcium balance with highly absorbable Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT and Calcium in convenient daily packets.* Magnesium-Calcium Plus 2:1 Ratio - Print
                This Made in
                    the USA Supplementing But Still Have Health Challenges? Get The Extra Magnesium You Need! Promote energy, support healthy muscle tone and function & maintain bone health* 1000mg's of Dr. Blaylock's favorite magnesium 2 to 1 ratio of magnesium to calcium Extra magnesium = extra benefit! ** Neurosurgeon Dr. Russell Blaylock recommends 1000mg of Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT™ in several of his Blaylock Wellness Reports . ** How Much Calcium And Magnesium Do I Really Need? While you obviously know that you need more calcium and magnesium (you wouldn't be here if you didn't, right?), what you may not know is how much more. If you want to see real results, like support for muscle tone, healthy joint function, smooth digestive function and regularity, restful sleep, appropriate day-to-day energy levels, and many others , then you MUST ingest a high enough amount of magnesium each day to promote a healthy magnesium-calcium balance.* Current research is suggesting that a 2 to 1 ratio of magnesium to calcium (at least) may be best when your body is showing signs of craving more magnesium. In reality, balancing an ample intake of magnesium with a moderate intake of calcium is what the body truly needs for optimal health. That’s why the amount of calcium in this product is a little lower—this leaves room for the calcium you consume each day from other dietary sources.* What Size Dose Is High Enough? Experts in the field, such as Dr. Russell Blaylock, recommend between 400mg - 1000mg of magnesium a day (or more, as bowel tolerance allows) to balance out the effects that can be connected to magnesium-deprived diets.* This is also the dose experts recommend to provide long-term whole health support for the cardiovascular system, promote healthy metabolism, and maintain healthy blood glucose levels, as well as promote long-term bone health.* For calcium, 1000mg is widely regarded as the proper amount for daily intake... including dietary sources. So, instead of providing 100% of the RDI for calcium, the daily packets leave room for dietary intake. It is much easier to get calcium from your diet than it is to get magnesium. What Can Calcium Magnesium Supplements Help Me With? Promote regularity and healthy digestion.* Support cardiovascular health.* Maintain healthy blood pressure within normal limits.* Maintain healthy blood sugar/glucose levels in conjunction with proper diet.* Help build healthy and strong bones.* Promote respiratory health.* Maintain mental and emotional well-being.* Promote a balanced response to stress.* Promote overall well-being.* How Long Will It Take To See Results? Many of our customers see a difference in the very first week of using Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT, because an absorbable, high dose supplement starts to replenish magnesium stores right away. While many of our customers report that 500mg works wonders for their health goals, many others use upwards of 1,000mg (as bowel tolerance allows) to see all the benefits that magnesium provides when your body has an ample supply.* What Are The Signs That The Body is Craving Magnesium? When the body's magnesium stores are taxed—a common occurrence considering our magnesium-poor diets—the body provides some clear hints. General body aches, constipation, tension headaches, reduced energy, interrupted sleep, and many other indicators are often the body's way of saying it wants more magnesium.* Magnesium is involved in more than known 325 biochemical reactions. It's likely there are hundreds more that scientists have yet to discover. Download this free 13 page report, Magnesium: America's Lost Mineral Low Dose vs. High Dose Magnesium Supplements Although there are thousands of cheaper calcium magnesium supplements available, the simple truth is that you CANNOT replenish your body's magnesium stores with a cheap calcium magnesium supplement . Why? Because most supplements that combine calcium and magnesium do not contain enough magnesium to be effective . Compounding the problem, they almost always use magnesium oxide, which has the poorest absorption rate of any other form. The low doses you're restricted to with poor quality calcium magnesium supplements simply won't deliver results. Can I Maintain Healthy Magnesium Levels Taking Only The RDI? No. The Recommended Dietary Intake (RDI) is the minimum amount required to avoid a deficiency — not necessarily the maximum amount required for optimal health. Most magnesium supplements cannot meet, let alone exceed , the 400mg RDI for magnesium because they will often produce an unwanted laxative effect (aka - diarrhea) at that level. Comparatively, the sustained release of Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT can deliver 1000mg of magnesium each day , exceeding the RDI by more than double to effectively achieve healthy magnesium levels — without causing dreaded digestive discomfort.* What Does Magnesium-Calcium Plus 2:1 Ratio Contain? Magnesium-Calcium Plus Daily Packets , 30 day supply Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT ® , 30 day supply (120 count bottle) The highly absorbable forms — patented dimagnesium malate and dicalcium malate from Albion Advanced Nutrition , the world's premier researcher and supplier of clinically-tested, organic minerals — make this one of the most effective calcium magnesium supplements available today. What Is The Cost Per Day? Magnesium-Calcium Plus 2:1 delivers 1000mg of sustained release magnesium and 500mg of super absorbable calcium for just $1.24 a day (with the 6 mo. supply). It is one of the easiest and most affordable ways to follow Dr. Blaylock's recommendations. For that little, why not give it a try when we guarantee your satisfaction? Our lifetime money back guarantee gives you the freedom to try these products and see the difference they can make in your day-to-day life, level of energy, and overall feeling of wellness.* Want To Feel The Difference For Yourself? Chances are, if you're here, you understand the many benefits of the Magnesium and Calcium combo. And since your satisfaction is guaranteed , the decision falls into the "you don't have to be a rocket scientist" category. Give our calcium magnesium supplements a try and decide for yourself if it makes a difference in your health and how you feel. But, if you'd like to learn more about our premium calcium , time-released magnesium or essential blend multi-mineral take all the time you need. Keep in mind, we're more than happy to answer any questions that arise. Selection List Price Savings 1 Month $57.94 $49.97 $7.97 ( 14% ) 3 Month $173.82 $129 * $44.82 ( 26% ) 6 Month $347.64 $224 * $123.64 ( 36% ) 30 day supply per box and bottle. 1000mg of magnesium and 500mg of calcium each day. Terrific savings with the 3 or 6 mo. supply, as low as $1.24 per day! * FREE shipping
                        on orders over $89! ($6.97 if under $89) 1 Month - $49.97/mo 3 Month - $43.00/mo 6 Month - $37.33/mo Supplement Facts Customer Reviews Learn More Related Products What Robert Frost Might Say Active Ingredients: Magnesium w/SRT ® : Thiamin (Vitamin B-1 as benfotiamine), Vitamin B-6 (as pyridoxal-5-phosphate), Folic Acid (as calcium folinate), Elemental Magnesium (as dimagnesium malate, Albion ® ), Malic Acid (as dimagnesium malate, Albion ® ). Essential Blend Calcium: Vitamin D-3 (as cholecalciferol), Elemental Calcium (as DimaCal ® dicalcium malate, Albion ® ), Boron (as amino acid chelate, Albion ® ), Malic Acid (as DimaCal ® dicalcium malate, Albion ® ). Essential Blend Multi-Mineral: Iodine (as potassium iodide), Zinc (Chelazome® zinc amino acid chelate), Selenium (as L-selenomethionine), Copper (Chelazome® copper amino acid chelate), Manganese (Chelazome® manganese amino acid chelate), Chromium (Chelavite® chromium amino acid chelate), Molybdenum (as molybdenum amino acid chelate), Trace mineral blend. Suggested Use: Take 2 packets of the calcium magnesium supplement daily (1 in the morning, 1 during lunch or dinner). Add 2 tablets of extra magnesium to each packet, or take in separate doses during the day. Or use as directed by your healthcare professional. Magnesium w/SRT ® (120 count bottle) Jigsaw Magnesium-Calcium Plus 2:1 Ratio contains: No artificial colors or dyes No casein No yeast No chemical additives No GMO (Genetically Modified Organisms) No gluten No lactose No soy No pesticides No preservatives No carnauba wax Reviews for this product will be posted soon. Magnesium w/SRT ® : Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT (Sustained Release Technology) releases Albion's premier dimagnesium malate, one of the world’s most bioavailable forms of magnesium, gently into your body over an extended period of time (6 - 8 hours) for super-absorption. This combination allows you to avoid the dreaded digestive discomfort experienced from nearly all other magnesium supplements, and provides 125% of the RDI to support optimal health.* Essential Blend Calcium : This essential blend combines Albion’s highly-absorbable DimaCal (dicalcium malate) with vitamin D-3 and boron to maximize absorption and promote strong bones, teeth, and nails. Because emerging studies show that overconsumption of calcium can cause all kinds of health challenges, each day supplies only 50% of the RDI to leave room for other dietary sources of calcium, which are plentiful.* Essential Blend Multi Mineral : Contains highly absorbable forms of critical trace minerals from Albion such as selenium, manganese, chromium, copper, molybdenum, iodine, and zinc, to help you maintain appropriate levels of these incredibly vital minerals and provide the often forgotten minerals that your body craves.* (This product contains no casein, gluten, yeast, soy, lactose, GMOs, coral calcium, heavy metals, pesticides, artificial colors or preservatives, and is vegan safe.) Background Information Magnesium and calcium are two of the most vital minerals in the body. In the past, magnesium and calcium intakes were much different than they are today. Magnesium used to be abundant in our natural, unprocessed diets, while calcium was more difficult to obtain. The human body is well-adapted for this past imbalance: it has innate systems for holding on to calcium and storing it for later use, while regularly excreting magnesium. This worked well in the past, but it's not so helpful in the face of modern diets that are imbalanced in the other direction! An ample intake of magnesium along with a moderate intake of calcium is what the body truly needs for optimal health. Nowadays, magnesium is no longer readily available in our diets due to nutrient-depleted soils and over-consumption of processed foods stripped of magnesium. At the same time, calcium has become more readily available in our diets, primarily due to the steady increase in consumption of dairy products and over-commercialization of calcium supplements for bone health. Currently, many people ingest way too much calcium, and don't take in enough magnesium to overcome natural magnesium excretion (or magnesium wasting) through urine. These factors have created a definite imbalance of magnesium and unabsorbed calcium. Magnesium-calcium imbalance can lead to many serious health challenges affecting the heart, blood vessels, and bones. It is critical to get magnesium and calcium into proper balance in order to protect against health challenges and the laundry list of effects associated with magnesium calcium imbalance.* Magnesium w/SRT ® (120 count bottle) Jigsaw Health's Solution Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT ® — with patented dimagnesium malate — releases active components gradually to ensure that your body has enough magnesium throughout the day. This also prevents the common problem of the “laxative effect” found with most magnesium supplements, which often prevents people from taking the larger quantities needed to maintain truly healthy levels of this critical mineral.* Jigsaw Essential Blend Calcium uses patented, premium dicalcium malate (calcium bound to malic acid) and includes boron and vitamin D for increased uptake and absorption of calcium for maximum effectiveness.* Jigsaw's 1 to 1 ratio calcium magnesium supplement - the Magnesium-Calcium Plus - makes it easy to take that critical step toward balancing your calcium and magnesium levels.* Magnesium And Calcium: 101 You already know that calcium helps build strong bones. But did you know calcium can't be appropriately absorbed and utilized in the body without magnesium? That's right. Over time, excess calcium can just build up in soft tissues like the kidneys, muscles, joints, heart, and brain. Getting enough calcium every day is important, but when the body doesn't have enough magnesium to balance it, calcium is pulled away from the bones and can cause major health challenges throughout the entire body. Solution? Increase your intake of magnesium!* Current research is suggesting that a 1 to 1 ratio of magnesium to calcium may be best for many people. Especially if the body is showing signs that it is craving magnesium. Up to 80% of Americans are Running Low on Magnesium... Why? The simplest answer is that our modern food supply (including organic food) simply doesn't contain the magnesium it should due to highly depleted soil conditions. Even back in 1915, there were worries about the nutrient quality of the soil, as found in a record of Congressional Testimony. So even if you eat healthy, it is likely that you are running low on this critical mineral. The impact is significant and wide-ranging since magnesium plays a role in over 325 functions in the body. For example, if you experiencing any of the following quirks, your body may be telling you that it's craving magnesium: muscle twitches and "tics" "Charlie horse" generally achy muscles hormonal mood swings compromised energy levels high-strung stress response restless sleep muscle tone that's not at it's best headaches in response to day-to-day stress constipation compromised focus slow athletic recovery Of course, all these quirks can be indicators of some other health challenge. Always speak with your primary healthcare provider before adding supplemental magnesium, or any other dietary supplement, to your daily health program.* Why Haven't My Blood Tests Ever Shown That I Need Extra Magnesium? This is a very valid question. And it has a very logical answer... Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of the body's magnesium supply is found in blood, and the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant. If your body is running low on magnesium, blood levels take top priority and are maintained at the expense of the bones and cells. Given this, it's easy to see why blood tests could misrepresent the real status of magnesium levels in the body. Relying solely on blood tests to check magnesium levels — instead of signs of magnesium craving (and the realization that up to 80 percent of the population is deficient) — can cause us to miss an important piece to the whole health puzzle.* What Role Does Magnesium Play in Relaxing Muscles? Another important role of magnesium is to work with calcium to help regulate the body's nerve and muscle tone. In many nerve cells, magnesium serves as a chemical gate blocker – as long as there is enough magnesium around, calcium can't rush into the nerve cell and activate the nerve. This gate blocking by magnesium helps keep the nerve relaxed. If your diet provides you with too little magnesium, this natural gate blocking can be compromised, and the nerve cell can become over-activated. When nerve cells are over-activated, they can send too many messages to the muscles and cause the muscles to over-contract.  One often over-looked cause of tight muscles is too much calcium.* This chain of events helps explain how magnesium calcium imbalance can lead to mild challenges such as: muscle tension, muscle soreness, muscle cramps, and muscle fatigue especially in the back and legs where some of the body's largest muscles live.* FAQ's: Are there any negative side effects from "w/SRT"? Is it okay for breastfeeding mothers to take magnesium? Does the Magnesium w/SRT need a calcium supplement to optimize its effect? How big are the Magnesium tablets? What are the side-effects of Magnesium? What is the difference between forms of Magnesium? How much "elemental" magnesium is in a serving of Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT? What are the Recommended Daily Intake suggestions for Magnesium by age? How much Magnesium is too much? Why Haven't My Blood Tests Ever Indicated that I Need More Magnesium? See all frequently asked questions. Related Information: Magnesium - From the Office of Dietary Supplements,& National Institutes of Health The Magnesium Miracle: A brief synopsis by author Carolyn Dean Magnesium: America's Lost Mineral What the American Dairy Association Will Never Tell You Magnesium - Clinical and Health Benefits Without Limits Magnesium-Rich Food: Is it a Contradiction in Terms? Malic Acid Can Be the Right Ligand for Certain Applications Magnesium in cardiovascular and other disorders Calcium and Magnesium: The Dynamic Duo Most Americans Don't Get Enough Magnesium...Do You? Low-magnesium diet may clog heart arteries The Benefits of Magnesium: The Diabetes Connection Magnesium, Drinking Water, & Health What Everybody Ought To Know About Magnesium Albion Research Notes: Magnesium Balance, Can You Juggle? Ending Back Pain With the Help of Magnesium Athletes: Are You Getting All Your Electrolytes? Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT® Premium form of magnesium combined with our proprietary Sustained Release Technology to maintain healthy magnesium levels.* Magnesium-Calcium Plus Daily Packets Promotes a healthy balance of calcium and magnesium levels, while also providing vital trace minerals your body needs for optimal health and vitality.* Blaylock Bundle Jigsaw Complete and an extra 500mg of magnesium daily, to reach Dr. Blaylock's recommendation of 1000mg of Jigsaw Magnesium w/SRT a day for total body wellness. * * These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
        This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. - Print
                    This - Back to Top Need Help? Call us Toll Free 1-866-601-5800 between 9am - 5pm Mountain Standard Time Email Us - Text Your Order click to Chat Online Your Account Check your order status Quick Re-Order Checkout / View Your Cart Log Out About Jigsaw Health Why'd we start this company? Meet the team Sign up for our newsletter Follow us on Twitter Top-Rated, Best-Selling Products Jigsaw Magnesium w/ SRT® Relaxes muscles, back pain, leg cramps Jigsaw Complete™ - Daily Packets Premium daily vitamin supplement Magnesium-Calcium Packets Dynamic duo of minerals Essential Blend Probiotics Eases gastrointestinal problems 5-HTP w/SRT® Reduce stress and anxiety Jigsaw Vitamin C w/SRT® Improve immunity All Jigsaw Health Products Totally Random Customer Testimonial Generator Thingy You guys are the best. Always so fair and cooperative, and I love your products. What really keeps me there though, is your attitudes and customer service. Thanks I'm a senior on limited income, so every little bit helps. I just hope the economy doesn't inflate to the point that I can't afford my supplements. AAAAGGGHHH! That would be awful. Thanks again, you're great. - Donna Bell More Customer Quotes... Privacy Policy Wholesale Program Affiliate Program ©2012 Jigsaw Health , LLC. All Rights Reserved. Legal 15863 N. Greenway-Hayden Loop, Ste 120 Scottsdale , AZ 85260 Phone: 1-866-601-5800 1-866-601-5800 Live Chat My Account Cart Produ