Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Sun, 21 Feb 2010 08:38:32 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "3c59c40d1b2ca1:1fb70"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 06:50:20 GMT
Connection: close

Magnesium Magnesium One of the Most 
						Deficient Minerals in the American Diet The 
						most common mineral deficient in the U.S. diet is 
						magnesium not calcium.  Of the American population 95% 
						are deficient in magnesium.  Of all the minerals our 
						body needs magnesium is the most important, not calcium; 
						without enough magnesium our bodies cannot even 
						assimilate calcium.  Calcium that is not assimilated 
						into your body can lead to arthritis, gallstones, kidney 
						stones, artery plaque, brittle bones, and calcium 
						spurs.  All of these have been known to disappear after 
						taking extra magnesium supplements which assists in 
						their absorption. Some of the conditions where magnesium may be useful in 
						prevention are: Premature Aging, Aggressive Behavior, Alcoholism, 
		Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Alzheimer’s Disease, Heart Arrhythmia, 
		Asthma, Attention Deficit Disorder, Autism, Brain Damage, Cancer, 
		Cerebral Palsy, Cerebrovascular, Chemical Sensitivity, Chronic Fatigue, 
		Cluster Headaches, Cocaine-related Stroke, Constipation, Cramps, 
		Diabetes. Fibromyalgia, Fluoride Toxicity, Head Injuries, Central 
		Nervous System Injuries, Heart Disease, Heart Attack, Atherosclerosis, 
		Cardiovascular Disease, HIV, AIDS, Hypertension, Kidney Stones, 
		Magnesium Deficiency, Menopause, Migraine Headache, Mitral Valve 
		Prolapse, Multiple Sclerosis, Nystagmus, Osteoporosis, Peripheral 
		Vascular Disease, Pregnancy-related Problems, Eclampsia, Premenstrual 
		Syndrome (PMS), Psychiatric Disorders, Repetitive Strain Injury, 
		Rheumatoid Arthritis, Sickle Cell Disease, SIDS, Sports-related 
		Problems, Stress, Stuttering, Tetanus, Tinnitis, Sound Sensitivity, TMJ, 
		Toxic Shock, Violence Symptoms of a magnesium deficiency are: Arthritis, Insomnia, Fatigue, Body tension, Headaches, Heart-Disorders, 
		Low Energy, High Blood Pressure, PMS, Backaches, Constipation, Kidney 
		Stones, Osteoporosis, Irregular-Heartbeat, Anxiety, Muscle Cramps or 
		Spasms, Irritability, Confusion, Poor digestion, Rapid heartbeat, 
		Seizures, Can be synonymous with diabetes, Cause cardiac arrhythmia, 
		Hypertension, Asthma, Chronic fatigue, Chronic pain syndrome, Formation 
		of kidney stones. Do you have trouble sleeping, do you wake up with muscle 
		cramps and spasms, or feel too tense to sleep?  Your sleep problem may 
		be as simple as a Magnesium deficiency.   Are you startled easily by 
		noises, are you highly nervous, overly sensitive, on edge all the time, 
		do lights seem too bright.  Do you suffer from muscle spasms, muscle 
		cramps, muscle jerks, muscle tics, eye tics, do you have hiccups?  These 
		are all caused by a deficiency of and can be solved by taking Magnesium. 
		These are signs that your nervous system lacks Magnesium, which is 
		essential for its proper functioning. Do you suffer form low energy, chronic fatigue, do you 
		become easily fatigued and weak; you may have a Magnesium deficiency.  
		Each cell in your body uses Magnesium as a key to energy production.  
		Magnesium can restore higher energy levels. Yes.  Excess calcium in the diet can deplete magnesium 
		from your body.  Milk is one of the worst culprits, the ratio of calcium 
		to magnesium is eight parts calcium to one part magnesium; impossible 
		for the body to utilize the calcium, excess calcium depletes the 
		magnesium in the body even more. After oxygen, water, and basic foods, Magnesium may be the most 
		important element needed by our bodies.  Magnesium is responsible for 
		activating over 300 different biochemical reactions necessary for our 
		body to properly function. Magnesium is more important than the following and regulates the body’s 
		use of calcium, potassium, and sodium.  When these minerals are not 
		regulated they can cause the body many problems such as poor energy 
		production, bone formation, muscle function, activation of B vitamins, 
		functioning of your heart, kidneys, adrenals, brain, relaxation of 
		muscles.  All of these problems can be related to a Magnesium 
		deficiency. Your heart is a muscle that is constantly tensing and relaxing.  All 
		your muscles including your heart use calcium to tense up and Magnesium 
		to relax.  Without a proper balance of Magnesium your heart may suffer 
		from an irregular beat or even go into a spasm called a heart attack.  
		What can Magnesium do for your heart?  It can lower blood pressure, 
		stabilize irregular heart beat, enable the heart to pump a larger 
		volume, relax constricted blood vessels, decrease the frequency of 
		angina pains, keep blood platelets from clumping together, and increase 
		beneficial HDL cholesterol. Some allergies may be due to a need for magnesium for instance if you 
		have an allergy to wheat, it may be relieved by adding more magnesium to 
		your diet. Do you suffer from PMS, too much calcium and not enough Magnesium can 
		cause PMS.  Without enough Magnesium, you can feel as though you are 
		living your life with the brakes on.  Add Magnesium to your diet and you 
		will feel as though you accelerated your whole life. Note: The majority of magnesium supplements are rock mineral we cannot absorb 
		minerals in that form it must be from food to be absorbed by our bodies. 100% Food Magnesium Complex is one of 
		the most nutrient-dense magnesium Foods available anywhere! This is important 
		because magnesium deficiencies are extremely common. Unlike other 
		magnesium supplements, Magnesium Complex contains magnesium as 100% Food , 
		and not in the form of molecular compounds officially referred to as 
		mineral salts (or commonly referred to as rocks).   Magnesium 
		deficiencies have been found to occur in around 11% of hospitalized 
		patients; it was found that 52% of patients in coronary care 
		units, 42% of hypokalemic patients, 65% of ICU patients, and between 
		25%-39% of patients with diabetes have inadequate levels of magnesium .  
		 “The higher percentage of fat and sugar in the American diet requires 
		greater emphasis on magnesium-rich Foods ” Magnesium in Produce in the United States Since the Industrial Revolution food processing has refined out a large 
		portion of magnesium (and many other important minerals and vitamins).  
		Eating these processed foods like sugar, flour, white rice, causes 
		magnesium loss via urination.  Drinking soft drinks that have caffeine 
		and phosphoric acid in them and coffee increases the magnesium loss.  
		Other factors that can deplete your body’s levels of magnesium are 
		mental stress, high perspiration, and medical drugs of all types, 
		diabetes, chronic pain, diuretics, and a diet too high in calcium. Poor U.S.A. Farming Methods Farming methods in the U.S.A. have also done little to help you obtain 
		enough magnesium in your diet.   See the chart below from the statistics 
		of the Department of Agriculture showing the drop in minerals like 
		magnesium from our produce due to poor farming methods from 1919 onward. United States Department of 
		Agriculture 1997 The dropped 
		averages in calcium, magnesium, and iron in cabbage, lettuce, tomatoes, 
		and spinach.  Sources: Lindlah, 1914; Hamaker, 1982; and U.S. Department 
		of Agriculture, 1963 and 1973. Food Sources: Apples, apricots, avocados, bananas, blackstrap molasses, brewer’s 
		yeast, brown rice, cantaloupe, dulse, figs, garlic, grapefruit, green 
		leafy vegetables, kelp, lemons, lima beans, millet, nuts, peaches, 
		black-eyed peas, salmon, sesame seeds, soybeans, tofu, tortula yeast, 
		watercress, wheat and whole grains. Sources: Prescription for Nutritional Healing, James Balch, M.D. 
		and Phyllis Balch, CNC, Avery Books 2000 Magnesium-Deficiency Catastrophe: www.mgwater.com , Dr. Mildred Seelig, Dr. Jean Durlach, Dr. 
		Michael Shechter, Dr. William J. Rowe Doctors' Research; 100% Whole Food Supplements for Healthcare 
		Professionals, Robert Thiel, Ph.D., N.H.D. www.doctorsresearch.com Doctors' 
				Research 100% Whole Food Supplements Magnesium Complex Important Note: The information presented herein by The Natural Path Botanicals 
				is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have 
				not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, 
				cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and 
				before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult 
				with your own health care provider. Contact Us - About - Glossary - Disclaimer - Links - Sitemap Ailments - Herbs - Supplements - Health - Programs - Articles - My Blogs - Products © 2007 The Natural P