
HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\n
Date: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 01:47:23 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.15 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.2
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 01:47:23 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

ec60 Get the facts on pertussis or whooping cough Locate health care services in Vancouver, Richmond, North and West Vancouver and along the Sea-to-Sky Highway, Sunshine Coast and BC’s Central Coast. Home Media Careers Compliments & Complaints Contact Us Entire Site Services Locations Home Locations & Services Find Locations Find Services Your Health Health Topics Women Men Infants & Children Youth School Health Seniors Aboriginal/First Nations LGBT2SQ Population Health Research Community Projects Disease Surveillance Library Services Your Environment Food Safety Water Quality Air Quality Pest Management Sanitation & Noise Tobacco Reduction Facility Licensing Feedback Your Stay In Hospital In Residential Care In Physical Rehabilitation Well Wishes Infection Control Cultural & Interpreter Services Your Privacy Partners in Care Submit Feedback About Your Care Request Health Records Parking Rates Get Involved Volunteer Foundations Community Engagement Open Board Forums Community Development Careers About Us You are here: Home > About Us > News About Us Quick Facts Leadership Strategy Accountability News Media Centre Events Archive RSS Feeds Social Media Awards & Recognition Information Requests Compliments & Complaints Contact Us Get the facts on whooping cough Currently there is no outbreak anywhere in VCH Given the recent outbreak of whooping cough (or pertussis) in the Fraser Valley is a good time to check that your immunizations are up to date. There is no outbreak anywhere in VCH, although increased cases have been reported. What is the whooping cough or pertussis? Pertussis is a bacterial infection of the lining of the respiratory tract (breathing tubes). Pertussis is known as "whooping cough" because of the "whooping" sound that is made when gasping for air after a fit of coughing. How is the whooping cough spread? Whooping cough is very contagious. It is spread by sneezing and coughing. How is it treated? Pertussis is generally treated with antibiotics, which are used to control the symptoms and to prevent infected people from spreading the disease. When does my child need a vaccination? Pertussis can be life-threatening for an infant. All parents should ensure their child’s pertussis immunizations are up-to-date and given on time. The vaccination is a part of the regular immunization schedule in BC and is given free of charge at 2, 4, 6, and 18 months of age, between four and six years old and in grade 9. Childhood immunizations are available from family physicians and public health nurses. Grade 9 boosters are given in school-based clinics by public health nurses. Where can I get my child vaccinated? Visit the Find Services directory to Find an Immunization Clinic near you . Do adults need a vaccination? Protection from childhood pertussis vaccinations wears off five to 10 years after the last dose. Therefore all adults are susceptible to pertussis, and can pass on the bacteria to vulnerable infants. Because infants are not protected from pertussis until they have received three to four doses of vaccine, they are particularly vulnerable in the first six months of life. Therefore, the Canadian National Advisory Committee on Immunization recommends that all adults should receive a pertussis booster. Pregnant women or people who are regularly with infants should get a booster vaccination. Where can I get a vaccination? The booster for adults costs approximately $45 and can be obtained from the VCH Travel Clinic (call 604-736-9244 for an appointment) or from some pharmacies. Contact the Travel Clinic for more information. Aboriginal People Many of the people in the Fraser Health region who have contracted pertussis are Aboriginal. This time of year is when many traditional gatherings take place, so there may be an increased risk of pertussis spread to neighbouring Aboriginal communities in Vancouver Coastal Health. VCH, in partnership with First Nations and Inuit Health and First Nations Health Council, are offering free pertussis vaccine boosters to all on and off reserve Aboriginal residents who have not received a vaccine in the last five years. Aboriginal people can receive a vaccination at the locations below: On-reserve community health centres Off-reserve public health clinics Your physician's office (please call ahead to ensure they have the vaccine available). How do I know I have pertussis/whooping cough? Early symptoms of pertussis mimic that of a common cold (runny nose, watery, red eyes, fever, sneezing, feeling unwell). Other symptoms include: Not wanting to eat Dry cough- that gets worse over about 2 weeks, and can last for months Long coughing spells Sudden coughing spells Thick mucus Whooping sound, as they try to get their breath (not always heard) The face may change colour-red or bluish, while coughing Small blood vessels in the skin of the face may break, causing small red spots on the skin Coughing may be worse at night Vomiting (throwing up) because of the amount of coughing When should I see a doctor? You should see a doctor for: Follow-up appointments Trouble breathing Noisy breathing Ear aches Slow or stopped breathing spells Signs of dehydration (dry mouth, extreme thirst, little or no urine/pee) Confusion High fever Coughing up green or yellow mucus Signs of a hernia: bulging spots in the abdomen (stomach) Seizures Get more information about the whooping cough For more information, talk to your family doctor or call HealthLink, for free, by dialing 8-1-1 or visit the HealthLink BC website . Related Links follow us Home | Locations & Services | Your Health | Your Environment | Your Stay | Get Involved | Careers | About Us Privacy Statement & Terms