Content-Type: text/html; Charset=iso-8859-1
Set-Cookie: ASPSESSIONIDAADDSQDT=NDALLKADPPHFLHGLNMINODBN; path=/
Cache-control: private

Easing the Agony of Dementia | September 2006 | Sleep Review Subscribe | Advertise | About Us | Contact Us | Home Home | News | Buyer's Guide | Products | Clinical | Business | Policy | Education | Expert Insight | Archives Subscribe to Issue Stories Issue Stories Sleep Review - September 2006 Easing the Agony of Dementia by  Regina Patrick, RPSGT Newer treatments can improve the sleep of people with      dementia, which may help both patients and caregivers to feel better. Caretakers of someone with dementia often report that the person sleeps poorly.      At night, the person may frequently arouse  or sleep for only a very      short time (less than 8 hours). The person may also frequently doze      throughout the day or have an erratic sleep/wake schedule. Such poor sleep can be a consequence of the disease      that is responsible for the dementia. For example, some brain-damaging      diseases hurt the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the site in the brain of      one’s biological clock. This, in turn, can cause delayed or advanced      sleep and wake phases, which means that the person with dementia may want      to go to sleep very late at night and awaken very late in the morning (ie,      delayed phases) or go to sleep very early at night and awaken very early in      the morning (ie, advanced phases). Attempts to get the person to go to      sleep or awaken at “normal” times may result in insomnia or      excessive daytime sleepiness. It can also negatively affect mood (eg,      depression), behavior (eg, late afternoon agitated restlessness often      called “sundowning”), and cognition (eg, confusion). Until recently, poor sleep in people with dementia was      taken as an irreversible aspect of the disease. Today, however, studies are      increasingly showing that sleep quality in people with dementia can indeed      be improved, and, consequently, symptoms of poor sleep, such as sundowning,      insomnia, and excessive daytime sleepiness, can be diminished. Sleep and Dementia Dementia is the progressive destruction of a      person’s memory, judgment, abstract thinking, personality, and      ability to carry out everyday activities, such as personal grooming and      communication. In its early stages, family and friends may note that the      person forgets recent conversations or events, repeats himself or herself      in conversations, has difficulty grasping new ideas and adapting to      changes, finds decision making difficult, or frequently misplaces things.      In later stages, a person may need reminders to dress, eat, use the toilet,      etc; does not always recognize familiar people or confuses someone familiar      with someone else; or becomes easily upset, frustrated, depressed, or      angry. In dementia’s last stages, a person may have total memory loss      of people, places, and things (although at times there may be brief flashes      of memory) and may live in a “time warp” (ie, the person may      act and believe that conditions and people, such as long dead parents,      still exist as when he or she was young). The progressive brain damage that      accompanies dementia may also, in its last stages, result in physical      disability so that the person becomes bedridden or wheelchair-dependent,      incontinent, unable to communicate with others, unable to use limbs fully,      etc, or a person may become restless and increasingly search for something      or someone. The brain damage that causes dementia can be the      consequence of neurodegenerative processes (eg, Alzheimer’s disease,      dementia with Lewy bodies), vascular damage brought about by blocked or      narrowed blood vessels in the brain (ie, vascular dementia), infection (eg,      the human immuno­deficiency virus [HIV] in HIV-related dementia or      prions in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, also known as “mad cow      disease”), or exposure to toxic substances (eg, ethanol abuse      resulting in alcohol-related dementia). The type of dementia can have unique effects on sleep      architecture and other sleep parameters (eg, rapid eye movement [REM]      density or spindles). Some research shows that in the early stages of      Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, there is a drastic reduction of slow-wave sleep,      abolition of REM sleep, and disappearance of spindles and K-complexes on      the EEG waveforms recorded in stage 2 sleep. 1 In Alzheimer’s disease, there is a drastic reduction      in REM density, a decrease in K-complexes and spindles during stage 2      sleep, 2 and a reduction in duration of REM periods. 3 In early infection with HIV (during the time it is      asymptomatic), there is an increase in the amount of slow-wave sleep,      especially in the later portion of the sleep period; frequent REM periods      of decreased duration; frequent arousals; and a shortened sleep latency. 4-6 These unique effects on sleep may be a reflection of      the primary damage occurring in the dementing disease. For example, damage      to the SCN may explain some sleep changes that occur in dementias of      neurodegenerative origin. The immune response may explain some sleep      changes that occur in dementias of infectious origin. For example, studies      reveal that people with HIV and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease have increased      blood levels of the peptides tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and      interleukin-1-beta (IL-1 beta). 6,7 The levels of these peptides normally increase when      infective agents are present. However, a side effect of TNF-alpha and IL-1      beta is that they induce sleep and enhance the duration of slow-wave sleep. Behavioral consequences of poor sleep quality in      people with dementia are increased confusion, worsening mood (eg, increased      depression), and, the most troublesome, sundowning. Rather than settling      down for the night, people with dementia who exhibit sundowning become      restless—walking around aimlessly, rocking, pacing, etc. During this      time, they may also exhibit belligerence ranging from a stubborn refusal to      go to bed to striking out at caregivers. For a tired caregiver, this sudden      burst of energy—which can last for hours or even all night—can      be incredibly frustrating and can negatively impact the quality of care. Activity monitoring (eg, actigraphy) offers a clue to      why sundowning occurs. Studies 8,9 reveal that persons with dementia often suffer from an      advanced sleep phase or a delayed sleep phase. In persons with an advanced      sleep phase, early evening is when they are most tired. If caregivers      attempt to keep them awake in the early evening so that they will be sleepy      enough to stay in bed all night, they may become belligerent due to      frustration at being prevented from sleeping when they want to. In persons      with delayed sleep phase, they will still be alert and undergoing their      biorhythmic “day” at early evening. If caregivers attempt to      put them to bed at a socially “normal” time in the evening,      they may become belligerent because people are trying to force sleep on      them. A Bright Idea In recent years, bright-light therapy has shown some      promise in reducing sundowning and improving sleep quality in people with      dementia. Bright-light therapy can induce a shift in a person’s      circadian phases so that the “sleep” phase occurs at night and      the “wake” phase occurs during the day. This in turn can reduce      problems with sundowning, sleepiness, insomnia, etc. Normally, morning      bright-light therapy causes one’s sleep and wake phases to shift to      an earlier time the following day. Evening bright-light therapy has the      opposite effect (ie, sleep and wake phases take place at a later time the      following day). Researcher Sonia Ancoli-Israel and her colleagues 10 compared the      effect of morning bright-light therapy vs evening bright-light therapy on      shifting phases in residents with dementia living in a residential setting.      They found that the rhythmicity of the residents’ cycles improved      when the residents had been exposed to either morning bright-light therapy      or evening bright-light therapy. They noted, however, that neither morning nor evening      bright-light therapy improved the subjects’ alertness or sleep      quality. Ancoli-Israel and her colleagues theorized that no improvement may      have occurred in these criteria because no distinction was made between      subjects who had Alzheimer’s disease and subjects whose dementia was      caused by other illnesses. It may be that dementing diseases that affect      the SCN respond differently to bright-light therapy than diseases that do      not affect the SCN. The results of a study by Mishima et al 11 support the      speculation that different diseases may respond differently to bright-light      therapy. In the Mishima study, the researchers compared the nighttime      activity of people with vascular dementia with that of people with      Alzheimer’s disease after both groups had been treated with morning      bright-light therapy. The researchers found that people with vascular      dementia had less physical activity at night after therapy while the      nighttime activity level of people with Alzheimer’s disease remained      the same. They concluded that bright-light therapy may be more effective in      improving sleep in someone with vascular dementia than in someone with      Alzheimer’s disease. The Behavioral Approach Besides bright-light therapy, another nondrug approach      to improving sleep quality in people with dementia may be behavior      modification and sleep hygiene. Researcher Susan M. McCurry and her      colleagues 9 examined the efficacy of using these techniques to improve sleep      quality in people with dementia who were still being cared for by family      members at home. The researchers proposed that, if successful, behavior      modification and sleep hygiene could be used to improve sleep quality in a      person with dementia, allowing caretakers to care for the person at home      for a longer period of time. The McCurry study involved 31 patient-caretaker dyads;      17 dyads underwent behavioral modification and implemented sleep hygiene      while 14 dyads acted as a control. The study lasted 2 months after which      the dyads continued either the test condition (ie, behavior modification      and sleep hygiene) or maintained the control condition (ie, no behavior      modification or sleep hygiene). For behavior modification, the caretakers of the 17      test dyads were instructed to take daily 30-minute outdoor walks with their      patients, to have the patients sit for 1 hour in front of a 2,500 lux light      box (ie, bright-light therapy) within 3 hours of the patients’      bedtimes, and to reduce nocturnal light exposure by using only night lights      in the patients’ bedrooms or other rooms, such as bathrooms, that the      patients might frequent at night. For sleep hygiene, the caregivers of the      17 test dyads were instructed to maintain specific bedtimes for the      patients and to try not to vary from those times by more than 30 minutes.      They were also told to limit patients’ naps to 30 minutes, to not      allow patients to nap past 1 pm, and to identify and, if possible, eliminate triggers for      patients’ nocturnal arousals (pets, a bed partner’s snoring,      street noise, etc). Actigraphic monitoring measured the activity of all 31      dyads for 1 week at the outset of the study (baseline), for 1 week at the      end of the 2-month study, and, finally, for 1 week 6 months after the      study. The researchers found that a combination of bright-light therapy and      daily walking improved symptoms of sleepiness, decreased nocturnal      awakenings, and decreased nocturnal wake time in patients in the test      dyads. By contrast, these criteria worsened in the patients in the control      dyads. Six of the patients in the control group were later      institutionalized, but none of the patients in the test dyads were      institutionalized. McCurry and her colleagues concluded that behavior      modification and use of sleep hygiene could improve the sleep of someone      with dementia. Hormonal/Pharmaceutical Treatment Some research has investigated using melatonin to      improve sleep in people with dementia. Melatonin is a sleep-promoting      hormone that plays a role in both the initiation and maintenance of sleep.      It is produced by the pineal gland and reaches its highest levels during      the dark of evening and falls to its lowest levels during the light of day.      However, this rhythmic rise and fall is impaired in some forms of dementia      (eg, Alzheimer’s disease), 12,13 which in turn impairs the rhythmicity of one’s sleep      and wake cycles. Studies 13 show that exogenous administration of melatonin induces      sleep, helps to maintain sleep, and strengthens the circadian rhythm in      people with dementia. Additionally, melatonin treatment can reduce      sundowning and slow the decline in mental functioning. 14,15 Despite the promising results of bright-light therapy,      behavior modification, sleep hygiene, and melatonin treatment, people with      dementia are often prescribed hypnotics and sedatives to counteract      insomnia and sundowning. A consequence of hypnotic/sedative use can be      next-day residual sedation. As a result, a person may sleep or act      “spaced out” on the day following use of a hypnotic/sedative.      In some people with dementia, this residual sedation may worsen problems a      person is already having with confusion and memory. Additionally,      hypnotic/sedative treatment can impair muscle coordination leading to a      greater risk of falls. Bright-light therapy, behavior modification, sleep      hygiene, and melatonin treatment have the benefit of avoiding this aspect      of drug therapy while improving sleep. Research continues into learning how      these nondrug therapies can be most effectively used in people with      dementia. Because nondrug therapies may not be effective in the later      stages of dementia, scientists also continue investigating how to      effectively use hypnotics, sedatives, or other drugs that have a sedating      effect, such as antidepressants to improve sleep quality while reducing      side effects, such as next-day residual sedation. Improved sleep means an improved quality of life for a      person with dementia through increased alertness, decreased sleepiness, and      reduction in behavioral problems. These beneficial consequences have a      positive impact on a caregiver’s quality of life and the quality of      care the caregiver is able to give. Normally, a caregiver’s own sleep      quality begins to suffer as the caregiver deals with a wandering or      belligerent person. A moment of inattentiveness on a tired      caregiver’s part can potentially allow the person with dementia to      get into dangerous situations. Persistent poor sleep quality can cause the      caregiver to suffer negative mood changes, such as depression, anger,      hopelessness, etc, which in turn can negatively impact the quality of care      the person is able to give someone with dementia. Poor sleep quality and      its impact on the caregiver may be the most common factor leading      caretakers to institutionalize a person with dementia.      However, as the McCurry study suggests,      improving sleep quality in a person with dementia may delay having to place      the person in a institutional setting and improve quality of life of not      only the person with dementia but also that of the caregivers. Regina Patrick, RPSGT, is a contributing writer for Sleep  Review. References 1. Donnet A, Farnarier G, Gambarelli D, et al. Sleep      electroencephalogram at the early stage of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Clin EEG. 1992;23(3):118-125. 2. Reynolds CF, Kupfer DJ, Houck PR, et al. Reliable      discrimination of elderly depressed and demented patients by      electroencephalographic sleep data. Arch Gen      Psychiatry. 1988;45(3):258-264. 3. Montplaisir J, Petit D, Gauthier S, et al. Sleep      disturbances and EEG slowing in Alzheimer’s disease. Sleep Res Online. 1998;1(4):     147-151. 4. Norman SE, Chediak AD, Freeman C. Sleep      disturbances in men with asymptomatic human immunodeficiency (HIV)      infection. Sleep. 1992;15(2):     150-155. 5. Norman SE, Chediak AD, Kiel M, Cohn MA. Sleep      disturbances in HIV-infected homosexual men. AIDS .      1990;4(8):775-781. 6. Darko DF, Mitler MM, Henriksen SJ. Lentiviral      infection, immune response peptides and sleep. Adv      Neuroimmunol . 1995;5(1):57-77. 7. Kordek R, Nerurkar VR, Liberski PP, et al.      Heightened expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 1 alpha,      and glial fibrillary acidic protein in experimental Creutzfeldt-Jakob      disease in mice. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996;93(18):9754-9758. 8. Volicer L, Harper DG, Manning BC, et al. Sundowning      and circadian rhythms in Alzheimer’s disease. Am J Psychiatry. 2001;158(5):704-711. 9. McCurry SM, Gibbons LE, Logsdon RG, et al.      Nighttime insomnia treatment and education for Alzheimer’s disease: a      randomized, controlled trial. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2005;53(5):793-802. 10. Ancoli-Israel S, Martin JL, Kripke DF, et al.      Effect of light treatment on sleep and circadian rhythms in demented      nursing home patients. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002;50(2):282-289. 11. Mishima K, Hishikawa Y, Okawa M. Randomized, dim      light controlled, cross-over test of morning bright-light therapy for      rest-activity rhythm disorders in patients with vascular dementia and      dementia of Alzheimer's type. Chronobiology      Int. 1998;15(6):647-654. 12. Maurizi CP. Loss of intraventricular fluid      melatonin can explain the neuropathology of Alzheimer’s disease. Med Hypotheses. 1997;49(2):     153-158. 13. Jean-Louis G, Zizi F, von Gizycki H, Taub H.      Effects of melatonin in two individuals with Alzheimer's disease. Percept Motor Skills. 1998;87(1):     331-339. 14. Brusco LI, Márquez M, Cardinali DP.      Monozygotic twins with Alzheimer’s disease treated with melatonin:      case report. J Pineal Res. 1998;25(4):260-263. 15. Olde Rikkert MG, Rigaud AS. Melatonin in elderly      patients with insomnia. A systematic review. Zeitschrift für      Gerontologie und Geriatrie. 2001;34(6):491-497. Subscribe to Issue Stories email article | contact editor | print article LOOKING FOR EXPERT ADVICE? Experts here are available to answer all your questions! Please contact us for more information about this feature, or to become an expert. MEDIA CENTER Interactive Media Archives · January/February 2012 · December 2011 · November 2011 · October 2011 · September 2011 · July / August 2011 · June 2011 · May 2011 Buyer's Guide · April 2011 · Best Doctors of 2011 · All Archives Newsletter · Sleep Report · Monthly Top Ten Podcast Series · Sleep Review Soundcast Resources Classifieds Calendar Web Resources Media Kit EAB Reprints Submit an Article Home | News | Buyer's Guide | Products | Clinical | Business | Policy | Education | Expert Insight | Archives ADDITIONAL ONLINE RESOURCES Allied Media 24X7mag Clinical Lab Products (CLP) Orthodontic Products The Hearing Review Hearing Review Products Rehab Management Physical Therapy Products Plastic Surgery Practice Imaging Economics RT Magazine Sleep Review Subscribe | Advertise | About Us | Contact Us | Home Copyright © 2012 Allied Media | Sleep Rev