
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 01:09:48 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hemoglobin SC Disease Clinical Trials Listings | ClinicalTrialsSearch.org Conditions By Category Bacterial And Fungal Diseases Clinical Trials Behaviors And Mental Disorders Clinical Trials Blood And Lymph Conditions Clinical Trials Cancers And Other Neoplasms Clinical Trials Digestive System Diseases Clinical Trials Diseases And Abnormalities At Or Before Birth Clinical Trials Ear, Nose, And Throat Diseases Clinical Trials Eye Diseases Clinical Trials Gland And Hormone Related Diseases Clinical Trials Heart And Blood Diseases Clinical Trials Immune System Diseases Clinical Trials Injuries, Poisonings, And Occupational Conditions Clinical Trials Mouth And Tooth Diseases Clinical Trials Muscle, Bone, And Cartilage Diseases Clinical Trials Nervous System Diseases Clinical Trials Nutritional And Metabolic Diseases Clinical Trials Parasitic Diseases Clinical Trials Respiratory Tract (lung And Bronchial) Diseases Clinical Trials Skin And Connective Tissue Diseases Clinical Trials Substance Related Disorders Clinical Trials Symptoms And General Pathology Clinical Trials Urinary Tract, Sexual Organs, And Pregnancy Conditions Clinical Trials Viral Diseases Clinical Trials Wounds And Injuries Clinical Trials Find Clinical Trials Browse: By Condition By Drug Name By Sponsor By Location Home > Clinical Trials By Condition > Hemoglobin SC Disease Clinical Trials Hemoglobin SC Disease Clinical Trials Listings Sponsored By: Evaluating the Safety and Effectiveness of Bone Marrow Transplants in Children With Sickle Cell Disease (BMT CTN #0601) (The SCURT Study) Sickle cell disease (SCD), also known as sickle cell anemia, is an inherited blood disease
      that can cause organ damage, stroke, and intense pain episodes. A blood stem cell transplant
      is a treatment option for someone with a severe form of the disease. Prior [more...] to undergoing a
      transplant, people typically receive a conditioning regimen of high doses of chemotherapy
      and other medications to prepare the body to accept the transplant. A conditioning regimen
      that uses lower doses of chemotherapy and medications may be safer for transplant
      recipients. This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of blood stem cell
      transplants, using bone marrow from unrelated donors, in children with severe SCD who
      receive a reduced intensity conditioning regimen prior to the transplant. Status: Recruiting Start Date: August 2008 Completion Date: June 2015 Natural History of Sickle Cell Disease and Other Hemolytic Disorders Under this study, NIH physicians will evaluate and treat patients with sickle cell disease
      and other hemolytic disorders (diseases involving damage to red blood cells) in order to
      learn more about the diseases and the painful attacks and lung complications that are often [more...] associated with them. Patients in this study will not receive experimental therapy, but will
      be given standard medical care. Patients who meet the medical criteria for another NIH
      protocol may be offered participation in that study, but are not obligated to enroll in it.

      Patients 5 years of age and older with known or suspected sickle cell disease, sickle cell
      trait or another anemia or red blood cell disorder such as thalassemia may be eligible for
      this study. Participants will be admitted to the NIH Clinical Center as an inpatient or
      outpatient for evaluation and treatment. In addition to a physical examination, evaluation
      may include the following types of tests and procedures:

        -  Routine blood and urine tests, including a 24-hour urine collection

        -  Blood test for genetic analysis to look for genes that may be relevant to the
           development of sickle cell anemia or other hemolytic disorders

        -  X-rays, if needed, to evaluate the patient's condition

        -  Computerized tomography (CT) scans or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or both, as
           needed to examine the lungs, brain, or heart and to measure blood flow in these organs.

        -  Echocardiogram (heart ultrasound) to determine if there is high blood pressure in the
           lungs

        -  Pulmonary (lung) function tests and cardiopulmonary (heart and lung) exercise test to
           evaluate breathing and exercise capacity to determine if there are lung or heart
           problems associated with the patient's condition.

        -  Heart catheterization to measure blood pressures in the heart and lung blood vessels
           will be offered if the results of clinical evaluation or echocardiogram suggest the
           presence of high blood pressure in the lungs. For this procedure, the patient is given
           a local anesthetic, and a catheter (plastic tube) is inserted into a vein in the arm,
           thigh, chest, or neck until it passes through the right side of the heart. When the
           catheter is in place, a tiny balloon at the end of the catheter is inflated,
           temporarily blocking the blood flow and allowing the physician to measure pressure in
           the lung artery system.

        -  Ventilation-perfusion scan to measure breathing and circulation in all areas of the
           lungs. For the perfusion scan, radioactive a... Status: Recruiting Start Date: April 2004 Completion Date: Effectiveness of a Computerized Tool (PAINRelieveIt) to Help Manage Pain Related to Sickle Cell Disease Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a blood disorder that is characterized by intense, painful
      episodes known as sickle cell crises. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of
      PAINRelieveIt, a three-part computer-based pain management tool, in treating adults with
      SCD. Status: Recruiting Start Date: February 2007 Completion Date: June 2010 Evaluating an Educational Program Geared for Parents and Aimed at Improving Academic Success in Children With Sickle Cell Disease Children with sickle cell disease (SCD) are at risk for central nervous system (CNS)
      complications, which may affect academic achievement. This study will evaluate an
      educational support program for parents that aims to improve academic achievement in
      children with [more...] SCD. Status: Recruiting Start Date: August 2008 Completion Date: April 2012 A Rehabilitation Program in Children With Sickle Cell Disease and Cognitive Deficits: a Pilot Study The overall goal of this project is to determine the feasibility of conducting a cognitive
      intervention for children with sickle cell disease. Status: Enrolling by invitation Start Date: September 2003 Completion Date: December 2012 Safety Study of MP4CO in Adult Sickle Cell Patients Sickle Cell Anemia is caused by an inherited hemoglobin disorder. Healthy red blood cells
      are discoid and can deform and move through small blood vessels to carry oxygen to all parts
      of the body. In sickle cell disease, as red blood cells circulate and [more...] oxygen is released in
      the circulatory system, the deoxygenated abnormal hemoglobin S can begin to polymerize. When
      this occurs, the red blood cells can become sticky and elongated. These sickled red blood
      cells are less flexible and will obstruct small blood vessels and block normal red blood
      cells from traveling through the circulatory system, which limits oxygen delivery to tissues
      and organs. This is known as a "sickle crisis".

      Patients suffering from a sickle crisis experience severe pain and are at risk of stroke,
      heart attack or even death. By lowering the level of oxygen pressure at which sickling
      occurs and opening the vasculature and rapidly delivering oxygen directly to ischemic
      tissues, the addition of MP4CO to existing treatment protocols may alleviate pain associated
      with a sickle cell crisis, abort a crisis and/or potentially reduce the duration of a
      crisis. This could mean less time in the hospital and an improved quality of life for
      patients with sickle cell anemia. Status: Not yet recruiting Start Date: August 2011 Completion Date: March 2013 Stem Cell Transplantation After Reduced-Dose Chemotherapy for Patients With Sickle Cell Disease or Thalassemia The purpose of this study is to find out if using a lower dose of chemotherapy before stem
      cell transplantation can cure patients of sickle cell anemia or thalassemia while causing
      fewer severe side effects than conventional high dose chemotherapy with transplantation. Status: Active, not recruiting Start Date: January 2005 Completion Date: The Effect of Oral Magnesium Pidolate on How Often Painful Crises Happens in Patients With Hemoglobin SC Disease The purpose of this study is to find out whether treatment with magnesium pidolate will
      increase the amount of water in the red blood cell and result in fewer painful crises in
      patients with hemoglobin SC disease while not causing diarrhea. Status: Completed Start Date: March 2000 Completion Date: May 2005 A Phase I/II Trial of Recombinant-Methionyl Human Stem Cell Factor (SCF) in Adult Patients With Sickling Disorders Sickle cell anemia is a genetic disorder that results from a single nucleotide substitution
      in codon 6 of the beta-globin gene which, in the homozygous state, produces an abnormal
      hemoglobin that is prone to polymer formation when deoxygenated.  The polymerized hemoglobin [more...] leads to impaired deformability and sickling of red blood cells which subsequently lodge in
      end-arterioles producing the classic and most prominent feature of the disorder, repeated
      vasoocclusive crises.  Despite knowledge of the precise genetic defect for decades, only
      recently has there been therapeutic impact based upon this knowledge when a clear benefit
      from treatment with hydroxyurea, a cell cycle-specific agent administered to induce
      production of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) by stimulating gamma-globin synthesis, was reported in
      patients with sickle cell disease (SCD).  The reduction in the frequency and severity of
      vasoocclusive crises seen has been attributed to the increase in HbF levels in responsive
      patients.  While the majority of patients demonstrate a rise in HbF, not all such patients
      benefit from treatment.  Given these results, alternative agents that also stimulate the
      production of HbF warrant investigation in the treatment of SCD.  Recombinant-methionyl
      human stem cell factor (SCF) is a hematopoietic growth factor with activity on immature
      hematopoietic progenitor cells.  SCF stimulates the production of HbF in vitro and in vivo,
      and this effect is attainable without the myelosuppression associated with hydroxyurea.  In
      this phase I/II trial, we will administer SCF in a dose escalating fashion to patients with
      sickling disorders.  Parameters to be measured are HbF levels, F cell levels, peripheral
      blood CD34 levels, frequency, duration, and severity of vasoocclusive crises, and toxicity. Status: Completed Start Date: March 2000 Completion Date: October 2000 Hydroxyurea and Magnesium Pidolate to Treat People With Hemoglobin Sickle Cell Disease Sickle cell disease (SCD), also known as sickle cell anemia, is an inherited blood disease
      that can cause intense pain episodes. Hemoglobin SCD (HbSC) is a form of SCD that is
      characterized by dense red blood cells. The purpose of this study is to [more...] evaluate the safety
      and effectiveness of hydroxyurea and magnesium pidolate, alone and combined, at reducing red
      blood cell density and the frequency of pain episodes in people with HbSC. Status: Terminated Start Date: January 2007 Completion Date: August 2009 Clinical trials allow volunteers access to medical treatment options before they are available to the general public. Participants often receive the best healthcare available for their condition. Risks are a reality, however, and may include more frequent doctor visits, health risks (possibly life-threatening), and/or the treatment being ineffective. Trials are federally regulated with strict guidelines to protect participants. Hemoglobin SC Disease Clinical Trials Information presented on ClinicalTrialsSearch.org is not intended to be a substitute for qualified medical advice visit or treatment with a real physician. We are not physicians. Always consult with a medical doctor (MD). ClinicalTrialsSearch.org is a website dedicated to listing clinical research studies in human subjects, including those specifically related to Hemoglobin SC Disease. Clinical research trials and medical trials take place in hundreds of cities across the United States. A clinical trial or clinical study is a research project with human volunteer subjects.  Clinical drug trials and pharmaceutical clinical trials generally measure the effectiveness of new treatments and drugs. The purpose of the studies is to answer specific human health questions. Clinical trials are a popular way for doctors, government agencies, and private sector companies to find treatments for all kinds of conditions. Clinical trials allow volunteers access to medical treatment options before they are available to the general public.  Many times the participants receive treatment for free, and sometimes they are paid for their time. Participants often receive the best healthcare available possible for their condition. Risks are a reality, however, and may include more frequent doctor visits, health risks (possibly life-threatening), and/or the treatment being ineffective. U.S. - based Hemoglobin SC Disease studies are federally regulated with strict guidelines to protect patients. Latest Clinical Trials News Diabetes Clinical Trials search for new treatments and cures 03/14/2010 There are a number of clinical trials underway to find effective treatments for diabetes, including new drugs, surgery and even transplantation. Feeling Depressed?  A clinical trial might help. 03/07/2010 There are several current and ongoing trials of interventions for major depressive disorder, which is characterized by a disabling combination of symptoms causing severe disruption to the sufferer's ability to carry out routine functions and tasks of daily life. The State of Constipation Clinical Trials 02/28/2010 Constipation is a illness where the bowels cannot move waste material out of the body in a normal manner. There are various clinical trials recruiting participants to study the effectiveness of various treatments. view more... Copyright © 2010, Clinical Trial S