
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 21:54:15 GMT
Server: Apache
Content-Location: smarter-plans.php
Vary: negotiate
TCN: choice
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Language: en

Smarter Plans Delta Dental of Wisconsin Home JavaScript Not Detected It appears that you're using a web browser with no
            support for JavaScript.  This site requires JavaScript, which is included
            in all major browsers.  Please download a 
            version of Internet Explorer or Firefox with JavaScript support before continuing. Login Username: Password: I forgot my password. Register for Access. Manage Prospects Manage or create group prospects. Review and manage existing proposals. Prepare a New Proposal Create a new proposal for a group prospect. Manage My Agents Create proposals on behalf of other producers by adding them to your network. Group Documents View copies of contracts, handbooks, SPDs or Form 5500s for your groups. Request Sales Materials Download the forms or request the printed material you need. Manage My Profile Edit your profile information. Why Delta Dental Leadership Smarter plans Great service Beyond benefits Product Overview Large-group dental Small-group dental Dentist networks DeltaVision Agent Support Appointment with Delta Dental Website authorization Contacts Forms Right Now Enrollment Forms Group Application Form Other Materials Smarter Plans Dental plans are changing! Innovations in plan design that can save money for your clients and make their plans a better value for their employees. CheckUp Plus™ CheckUp Plus™ is a new option for Delta Dental of Wisconsin groups that enables enrollees to obtain diagnostic and preventive dental services without those costs applying to their plan year individual annual maximum. What services are included? All services listed under the diagnostic and preventive services of your plan are included in CheckUp Plus. Examinations Routine x-rays and cleanings Sealants (if they are part of your plan's diagnostic and preventive category) Any other services that are in the diagnostic and preventive category Example The following example shows the impact of CheckUp Plus™ on an enrollee's individual annual maximum. (Plan benefit and dentist charges vary. Example assumes two routine check-ups, covered at 100%, and a $1,000 annual maximum.) Two routine check-ups (Exams, x-rays, cleanings) With CheckUp Plus™ Traditional Dental Plan Delta Dental Pays Enrollee Pays Maximum Remaining Delta Dental Pays Enrollee Pays Maximum Remaining $300 $0 $1,000 $300 $0 $700 Evidence-based Integrated Care Plan (EBICP) Delta Dental of Wisconsin's Evidence-Based Integrated Care Plan (EBICP) provides expanded benefits for persons with diseases and medical conditions that have oral health implications. These benefits include increased frequency of cleanings and/or applications of topical fluoride. They address the unique oral health challenges faced by persons with these conditions, and can also play an important role in the management of an individual's medical condition. High Risk Cardiac Conditions Suppressed Immune Systems Kidney Failure or Dialysis Cancer Therapy Periodontal Disease Diabetes Pregnancy EBICP's unique enrollment mechanism requires no medical claims to be filed, and allows easy self-enrollment by the patient or his/her dentist. Increased Sealant Coverage Sealants have been shown to reduce the need for fillings by about 72%. The average lifetime cost of a single cavity is more than $2,000 (fillings may need to be replaced, and sometimes ultimately result in the placement of a crown). Delta Dental recommends covering sealants for primary or permanent molars for patients through 18 years of age, and carrying that coverage under the diagnostic and preventive category of the group's dental plan. Reduced X-ray Frequency Experts at the Food and Drug Administration and the American Dental Association recommend that patients at a low risk of chronic diseases such as cavities and periodontal disease receive less frequent exposure to dental x-rays. Delta Dental recommends bitewing x-rays one time per 12-month period, and full-mouth x-rays once each 5 years for all patients. Implant Coverage Implants are now a standard part of coverage under new Delta Dental plans. For groups that currently exclude implants, your contract or SPD can be easily modified to remove the exclusion. Generally no cost impact - implant coverage provides employees with an additional, often-requested benefit, without impacting overall plan costs. Composites vs. Amalgams Resin-based composites (tooth-colored fillings) and amalgam (silver-colored fillings) are both used as options for restorations on posterior (back) teeth. Each has certain advantages. For example, composites can be more conservatively placed in small cavities, thereby causing less loss of tooth structure; while amalgam might provide the better choice in large, load bearing fillings or fillings below the gum line. Both materials are safe and effective. Composites are generally more expensive, and may result in higher out-of-pocket costs for the patient. Delta Dental recommends coverage that gives dentists and their patients the ability to choose together whether amalgam or a resin-based composite is the appropriate restorative material. Copyr