Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Sun, 17 Aug 2008 18:42:42 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "e19f5f8990c91:6b9"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET

aug08-2 News (Updated
August 17, 2008 ) [Home] [ Previous
news] Beijing
provides 100,000 condoms for athletes Tue Aug 12, 2008 8:35 AM BST By Belinda Goldsmith BEIJING (Reuters) - The Sydney Olympics ran out. Athens doubled the number.
So organisers of the Beijing Games are hoping 100,000 condoms will satisfy the
needs of Olympic athletes. While sex is not an Olympic sport it is expected to be an activity in the
Beijing village housing 10,500 athletes, all of whom are in great shape and with
plenty of free time on their hands once knocked out of the Games. Athletes have received free condoms at every Olympics since Barcelona in 1992
to help raise awareness of AIDS, and Beijing is no exception. "There are many young, strong, single people in the athletes' village
and, like everywhere, some will fall in love or other things so we need to make
condoms available," Ole Hansen, spokesman for UNAIDS China, told Reuters. "A lot of these young people are not married or in relationships so we
want to make sure they have the information and tools to protect themselves if
they have sexual encounters." The UNAIDS, the Beijing organising committee BOCOG and International Olympics
Committee are providing 100,000 condoms as part of a campaign on HIV prevention
and anti-discrimination. At the Sydney Games in 2000 athletes quickly exhausted a supply of 70,000 and
another 20,000 had to be brought in. The Foundation for AIDS Research, amfAR, said 100,000 were distributed at the
Salt Lake City Winter Olympics in 2002 after a plan to distribute 250,000
condoms met protests by religious groups and was scaled back. At Athens in 2004 about 130,000 condoms were distributed. Hansen said the number available at Beijing was based on previous Games'
experience and in keeping with previous Olympics would be available at medical
centres at athletes' centres in Beijing, Qingdao and Hong Kong rather than put
in rooms. "We have people here from all religions and cultural backgrounds, some
of whom may feel uncomfortable or offended with condoms in their room," he
said. To be discreet, two condoms are tucked inside every a brochure about HIV that
are available at medical centres. "No one can see that you are carrying condoms to save any
embarrassment," said Hansen. "People are encouraged to take the leaflets and to take as many as they
like. They can use them or take them home for friends and spread the knowledge
and awareness." Chinese condom makers have jumped on the Olympics bandwagon. One manufacturer, Elasun, has come up with a set of cheeky advertisements
featuring a stickman swimming over a rippled condom that looks like a wave,
riding two condom rings like a bicycle, and using a condom as a basketball hoop. Condoms depicting the five Olympics mascots are also for sale on various
online sites although nowhere to be seen in official merchandise stories. GLOBAL:
High food prices put pressure on HIV programmes 11 Aug 2008 14:40:01 GMT Source: IRIN Reuters and AlertNet are
not responsible for the content of this article or for any external internet
sites. The views expressed are the author's alone. MEXICO CITY , 11 August 2008 - As global food prices continue to increase, the lack of
affordable nutritious food could endanger the lives of people living with HIV in
the developing world, experts have said. "As prices continue to
rise, people will start to buy cheaper, less nutritious food and may begin to
skip meals – in Lesotho we are already seeing people skipping meals because they can't afford
food," Alan Whiteside, an economist with South Africa 's University of KwaZulu-Natal , told a press conference at the International AIDS Conference in Mexico on Thursday. "For people living
with HIV, who require more nutrition than healthy people, this will have
terrible consequences." Rising oil prices, the
impact of climate change and the loss of agricultural land to biofuel production
have all contributed to the current crisis affecting people in the developing
world, most of whom rely on agriculture for their livelihood. "The effects of
climate change have made food production less secure, droughts longer, and when
the rains come they are heavier and damage crops," Whiteside explained. He noted that HIV-positive
people on antiretroviral (ARV) medication, who skipped doses because they did
not have food to take with their medication, risked developing drug resistance,
which could lead to treatment failure. A likely increase in
mobility as people leave their homes to search for food and an income also had
the potential to disrupt treatment, said Martin Bloem, head of HIV/AIDS and
nutrition at the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP). Increased mobility
has been associated with increased HIV risk, as men and women leave their
marital home for long periods. Food shortages may also
lead to women and girls resorting to transactional sex, another factor that
increases the risk of HIV infection. A way out of poverty Robin Jackson, a UNAIDS
special advisor on food and nutrition, said providing daily food packages
containing corn soy blend, maize-meal, beans and sugar was relatively
inexpensive: about US$0.70 for an adult and $0.31 for a child. But a combination of high
food prices and funding shortfalls meant the WFP had been forced to reduce the
number of people it was supporting around the world at a time when the need was
increasing. "In the past, only the poorest 10 percent of the population has
generally needed assistance, but that figure is rising along with food
prices," Bloem said. Several speakers noted that
donors had not done enough to incorporate food support into their HIV
programmes. "Putting people on treatment without ensuring that they have
enough to eat is like sending your kids to school without any books," said Jackson . "With high food prices here to stay for the foreseeable future, it is
critical to supplement HIV and TB programmes with a nutritional component." Besides food aid, speakers
also called for more programmes to provide livelihood support for agricultural
production in the form of direct cash transfers or micro-financing. "In some cases, such
as school feeding and feeding people on ARVs, provision of food packages is the
ideal solution," Whiteside said. "But where local markets are able to
provide a nutritious diet, cash transfers may be the best way forward." Supporting families engaged
in agriculture has the dual benefit of increasing food production and raising
nutrition and income levels. A cash transfer scheme for
poor families in Mexico , started by the International Food Policy Research Institute, has brought a 15
percent increase in the number of girls attending secondary school and a 12
percent drop in illnesses among children under five. AFRICA : Donor AIDS money weakening health systems 15 Aug 2008 16:41:53 GMT Source: IRIN JOHANNESBURG, 15 August 2008 - More
international aid has been dedicated to fighting HIV/AIDS than any other
disease, but what impact have all those donor dollars had in countries where
HIV/AIDS funding often exceeds total domestic health budgets? The three largest HIV/AIDS
donors - the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the US President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the World Bank's
Multi-Country AIDS Programme (MAP) - have spent US$20 billion on combating AIDS
since 2000. But a new report by the
Washington-based Centre for Global Development, "Seizing the opportunity on
AIDS and health systems", launched at the International AIDS Conference in Mexico City last week, suggests that AIDS donors may actually have weakened the health
systems necessary for an effective AIDS response. "The big HIV donors
are creating AIDS-specific systems that compete for health workers and
administrative talent, share the same inadequate infrastructure, and further
complicate already complex flows of information," said Nandini Oomman, lead
author of the report. Noting that "The
future of the global HIV/AIDS response cannot be considered independently from
that of national health systems," the study examined interactions between
the three donors and health systems in three countries where they work: Mozambique , Uganda and Zambia . Focusing on three
components of those health systems - health information systems, supply chains
for essential drugs, and human resources - the researchers found that donors had
developed AIDS-specific processes, often creating a drain on resources essential
to the country's broader health system. In the area of health
information systems, for example, all three donors have their own reporting
requirements, which burden already overstretched health facility staff with
multiple record-keeping duties. "This extra effort takes away time from
helping AIDS patients or providing other health services," Oomman pointed
out. With the goal of
distributing antiretroviral drugs more efficiently, donors have also supported
the development of procedures that are separate from those for other essential
medicines. The report warns that
"As antiretrovirals come to be offered at more and more facilities,
maintaining the separate systems will become increasingly complex," and
recommends integrating the two systems. All three countries covered
in the report are experiencing severe shortages of qualified health workers, but
instead of training additional workers, the three donors have funded specific
training in HIV/AIDS for existing staff. In some cases, they have rewarded staff
for the extra work administering their programmes with salary top-ups. "Such top-ups ...
focus the attention of clinical staff on HIV/AIDS - in some cases reducing the
time they give to other health services," the report's authors argued. PEPFAR has also funded the
hiring of large numbers of non-governmental organisation (NGO) health workers,
who often earn significantly more than their counterparts working for the state.
A clerk working for a PEPFAR-funded programme in Zambia , for example, makes about twice as much as a registered nurse in the public
sector, according to the study. Not surprisingly, donor
funding for better paying jobs with NGOs has sometimes pulled desperately needed
staff away from the state sector. The report concludes that
donors should shift their response from an initial emergency mode, in which they
circumvented weak areas of national health systems to set up systems that could
achieve quicker results. Uganda
turns to mass circumcision in AIDS fight Wed Aug 13, 2008 12:03 PM BST By Frank Nyakairu KAMPALA
(Reuters) - Ugandan authorities have launched a mass circumcision drive with the
hope it will reduce HIV/AIDS rates in the east African country. Some studies indicate circumcision could be 70 percent effective in
protecting men against infection by the disease during heterosexual intercourse,
when used in conjunction with condoms and other safe-sex practices. Government officials in Kampala have decided to take advantage of a
month-long traditional "circumcision season" practiced by some tribes
to drive the message home. "Socially, it is uniting, and now it has also been proven medically,
that is gratifying and it is part and parcel of now the strategy for fighting
AIDS," Kibale Wambi, chairman of Sironko district in eastern Uganda, told
Reuters. The government plans to circumcise more than 3,000 local youths between the
ages of 12 and 18. HIV activists say there needs to be more money and efforts
like this on a global scale. But some critics of circumcision in Uganda say it is brutal and dangerous. In
traditional settings like Sironko, circumcisers have used the same knife for
each young man. This time, the government has introduced a strict one knife per operation
ruling to ensure no infections are passed on. "If a knife is to be re-used on another person, it first has to be
sterilised," Wambi said, wearing a traditional hat covered with cowrie
shells. "We have also discouraged the traditional practice of forcing the
circumcised males into sexual intercourse to prove their manhood after the wound
heals, to avoid the spread of sexually transmitted diseases." Some experts fear that some of the newly circumcised men may believe they are
immune following the procedure -- translating into even more risky sexual
behaviour. "All I know is that when I am circumcised, it will not be as easy for me
to get infected with HIV/AIDS," said one young man, Kizeja Michael, as he
lined up for the operation. "People who are circumcised are not able to get AIDS," said his
friend, Peter Kibatsi. Uganda has been widely praised for an education campaign about condoms that
is credited with cutting HIV prevalence rates from 30 percent two decades ago to
about 6 percent today. (Editing by Daniel Wallis and Mary Gabriel) Blood
transfusions give Argentine patients HIV Fri Aug 15, 8:20 PM ET Two intensive-care patients contracted HIV after receiving blood
    transfusions at public hospitals in the Argentine province of Cordoba, a
    newspaper reported Friday. An unidentified donor gave blood at a Cordoba city hospital in December,
    testing negative for HIV, Health Minister Oscar Gonzalez was quoted by
    Cordoba's La Voz del Interior newspaper as saying. When the donor returned in May to give blood again, tests came back
    positive for the virus — but the blood had already been distributed, the
    newspaper said, citing Gonzalez. Officials alerted local hospitals, and two patients were this week found
    to have been infected after receiving blood transfusions from the donor, who
    likely contracted HIV shortly before he or she gave blood in December,
    Gonzalez said, according to the newspaper. The newspaper did not identify the donor, the hospital or the infected
    patients, in line with a national law that that does not allow such
    information to be disclosed publicly. A so-called "window period" of 16 to 22 days can pass between
    exposure to HIV and the time antibodies can be detected in a standard blood
    test. During that time, a person can be contagious. As in the U.S., blood donors in Argentina are given an extensive
    questionnaire to limit high-risk donors, who officially include gay men
    who've had sex in the past five years, people who've had sex for money or
    drugs in the past five years, or used intravenous drugs recreationally
    during that time. About 120,000 people are infected with HIV in Argentina, Latin America's
    fourth-most populous nation, which also has the fourth-highest number of
    cases in the region, according to the U.N. Mom,
daughter lead Kenyan village in AIDS recovery By BARBARA BORST, Special to The Associated Press Sun
      Aug 17, 4:47 AM ET Loyce
    Mbewa-Ong'udi was late. Family and friends milled around her parents' house
    in the green hills overlooking Lake Victoria, waiting for the daughter from
    America to return home. At last the taxi bounced over the ruts and made a sharp turn into the
    compound of small brick and stucco houses. Loyce sprang out to a shower of
    greetings in the Luo language, hugs, helping hands for 12 enormous suitcases
    crammed with anti-AIDS medicines, asthma inhalers, storybooks, pencils and
    sharpeners, recycled eyeglasses. The supplies were for the Rabuor Village Project, which Loyce runs. In
    the crowd, she sought the woman who started it all: her mother, Rosemell
    Ong'udi. This is the story of a village, spurred by two extraordinary women,
    rising from the depths of the AIDS epidemic to build a future for itself. In
    10 years, with hardly any international aid, this poor farming community has
    founded a nursery school and feeding program, a pharmacy, a youth group and
    income-generating projects. The work touches more than 10,000 people in 10
    villages and keeps growing. But it's not just a list of projects; it's a change of heart. Rabuor's
    work embodies what experts consider the most effective approach to
    development: "community-owned" programs in which residents, not
    just donors, set the priorities, and change comes from the bottom up. District Commissioner Godfrey Kigochi, senior Kenya government official
    for Kisumu West, says he wishes he had a project like this in every village.
    Organizations that give money or lend expertise to the Rabuor project —
    Slum Doctors, Lift Kids, Pangea, Architects Without Borders — say the
    group is unique for its pragmatism and deep community roots. Rev. Charles
    Ong'injo, who blessed the work from the start, is helping other
    congregations launch similar projects. Kenya's AIDS rate has fallen since the 1990s, and far more people today
    are willing to go for testing and treatment. Still, about 14 percent of the
    district's 160,000 people are infected, double the national rate. The Rabuor project is about a lot more than AIDS prevention: It's about
    people learning that they can better their own lives. Loyce, 52, bounds into
    a meeting and revs up the team, with the energy of the field hockey and
    track competitor she used to be. Rosemell, 69, tall and sturdy, brings a quiet wisdom instead. She speaks
    in a girlish voice, and her laugh rumbles soft and low. She began back in the 1990s, when AIDS was ripping the heart out of
    almost every family here. Yet people barely whispered about it because
    prostitutes and truckers were the early conduits of the disease. Rosemell didn't talk about AIDS either, but she talked about the orphans
    it left behind. She recalls that the children were "very bad in their
    bodies" because they didn't have enough food. She grew up without a father, helped raise her siblings, sometimes went
    without food herself. In 1998 she began giving the kids food from her own
    home. Then she turned to a women's group she had founded to see "what
    we can do for these children, now we are their mothers and fathers." Worried about the orphans, Rosemell cut short a visit in 2001 to Loyce in
    Seattle. On her return, she asked Ong'injo if the women could use a room at
    the Rabuor church. She asked her husband, Wesley, a retired school
    headmaster, for money to hire a teacher. The women launched a nursery
    school. When Loyce visited her childhood home months later, she saw how much had
    changed. "I had a first-class community and village to bring me up.
    Everything a child could dream of, I had it," she says. "People
    rarely died. The first one I knew, I was 18." But in Rabuor so many were dying that villagers spent much of their time
    and resources on funerals. Loyce, who once worked for the World Bank and the
    Gates Foundation, looked for a way to help. She sent her salary. She asked people in her Seattle church to
    contribute. Then she and supporters founded Rabuor Village Project in 2003
    as a nonprofit under U.S. law. The money trickling in helped buy land, build
    classrooms and hire teachers. AIDS hit the Ong'udi family directly. Rosemell and Wesley — parents of
    10, grandparents of 19 — buried two of their children, in 2004 and 2007,
    AIDS victims who each left behind a healthy child. Another of their children
    is HIV-positive but taking AIDS drugs. But people were not ready to discuss AIDS; their focus was on feeding
    their families. The first step was to increase crops, starting with corn. Next came
    projects to earn income, keep children in school and train adults in
    agriculture, nutrition, vocational skills. Conditions still remain basic: no
    running water, no electrical service, no cars, but a few cell phones. Loyce, who calls her mother the Mother Teresa and Martin Luther King Jr.
    of Rabuor, credits Rosemell's political savvy for finding patrons. Ong'injo
    says the church's backing shields the work from corrupt politicians.
    Rosemell's son Kennedy helps navigate bureaucracy and politics as assistant
    chief. Rosemell is stepping back, because she doesn't want the work to be seen
    just as "Ong'udi's thing." The new "chair lady" of the
    100-member Karateng Rabuor Women's Group is Yuanita Ong'udi (not a
    relative). Projects include sunflowers for cooking oil, goats whose milk
    feeds the children, a donated truck they rent out and, always, help for the
    poorest. The nursery school serves two hot meals and a hearty snack every day to
    160 students. The Rabuor project pays 25 salaries, including four teachers,
    four cooks, a nurse and two pharmacists — people who volunteered before
    there was money for salaries. Community health workers survey 10 villages. The youth group was born out of a meeting between Loyce and 150 angry
    youths in 2005, who felt the Rabuor project wasn't helping them. The group
    now runs a beekeeping project, raises chickens and makes bricks. In a
    cultural breakthrough, young men and women teach school and adult groups
    about HIV prevention, AIDS testing and treatment, including condom use,
    abstinence, responsible sexuality and reduced mother-to-child transmission. Dawnson Owuor, project manager, says the projects interconnect. For
    example, the youths rent land from the women's group for their brickwork;
    when the women's group builds a classroom, it buys bricks from the youths.
    The projects also help many of the 60 families who fled here during the
    violence after Kenya's disputed presidential elections in December. In Seattle, Loyce is the only person the project pays; the team relies on
    volunteers, including Carol Kinney, a nutritionist who conducted a feeding
    survey in Rabuor. Treasurer David Anstine, another volunteer, says money
    sent to Kenya rose from about $39,000 in 2005 to $165,000 in 2007. Loyce is driven and admits to driving others. Early on, she chided people
    for wallowing in misery, as if they were saying, "I love the face of
    poverty. Darling poverty, live with me forever." But Loyce doesn't own land or live here, and she recognizes the project
    can only succeed if villagers are involved. Kigochi, the district
    commissioner, says too many anti-AIDS groups offer training in hotels, at
    high cost; the Rabuor group works in the villages and "everyone
    appreciates it." Loyce's work comes on top of full-time studies to complete a master's
    degree in public administration, and she's raising a daughter alone. She
    says she's energized by "something in the children's faces."
    Collins Otieno is inspired by U.S. presidential contender Barack Obama,
    whose father came from this region. And Brenda Amoke, an orphan, greets her
    with news of high school success: "Mommy, I'm No. 1." In May, Rabuor registered an organization called Village by Village to
    link existing groups and expand into other communities. In June, Loyce
    launched a project, with Rotary Clubs, to pump drinking water to the village
    and for a vocational training center to teach tailoring, metalwork and
    computer skills. This is not utopia. People work together, but they often disagree,
    sometimes sharply and publicly. For example, Owuor is excited about the
    expansion and about involving more men. But Kennedy Ong'udi, Rosemell's son,
    fears the changes will distract from caring for orphans and widows,
    empowering women and girls. And Rosemell is concerned that too big a role
    for men may turn the projects toward personal gain. As she puts it,
    "Men have many pockets." The competing views are a sign of subsistence farmers becoming active
    citizens, of women speaking up. They are part of why people here believe
    their work will last, while many development projects collapse once the
    donors leave. Loyce plans to find leaders like her mother in other communities and show
    them what a poor village can do. Her first day back in Rabuor, Loyce told a
    youth meeting she was proud to see so many girls and high school graduates. She told them to plan what they want to do, then tell her how the Rabuor
    project can help. Then she left so that they could be the ones to build their dreams. NIGERIA : Gays hesitate at the closet door 14 Aug 2008 07:38:10 GMT Source: IRIN ABUJA, 14 August 2008 - There is no
explicit gay scene in Nigeria, but in the Ibiza bar in the capital, Abuja, the
action on the packed dance floor seems a little more exclusively guy-on-guy, a
little bit raunchier than may be considered "normal". According to Oliver Okem*,
a smart and trendily bespectacled AIDS activist, when the mood and the music is
right, he and his friends can strut their stuff at Ibiza, Excelsior, or a couple
of other gay-tolerant clubs in Abuja. Sometimes, though, it becomes advisable to
"straighten up; rough-looking guys can stare at you, wondering what's up,
and maybe whispering among themselves". Being gay in Nigeria is hard: homosexual sex is illegal, but there is also the sanction contained in
a rising tide of religious fundamentalism, and with cultural traditions that
generally abhor same-sex coupling. In a country - especially
in the south - where marriage and children are seen as sacred, there is the
added pressure from parents who expect their offspring to settle down and
deliver grandchildren. Being gay means becoming invisible and, as a result of
that secrecy, much more vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. A behavioural surveillance
survey by the ministry of health in 2007 found that, after sex workers, men who
have sex with men (MSM) were the group most at-risk of HIV infection, with a
prevalence rate of 13.4 percent – three times the national average of 4.4
percent. There was considerable variation in three cities surveyed, but in the
commercial capital, Lagos , prevalence hit 25 percent. The circumstances of MSM
vulnerability are not unique to Nigeria . As in the rest of the world, some MSM do not regard themselves as gay and are
in heterosexual relationships, making it difficult for orthodox AIDS campaigning
to reach them. "A lot of stigma is
associated with the moral aspect [of homosexuality]. It drives people into the
closet – they don't want to come out, which means they can't access [AIDS]
services," said one senior HIV researcher, who asked not to be named as he
did not have clearance to talk to the media. Okem said it was a little
more complicated. "The vast majority of MSM believe you cannot contract
STIs [sexually transmitted infections] from anal sex. In Nigeria we don't talk about anal sex, and all the [AIDS] interventions are targeted at
heterosexuals and vaginal sex. The perception of gay people not using condoms is
not because we don't want to, but because we are not well informed." The internet, with social
networking websites like Facebook, and the more discreet clubs provide enough
opportunities to hook up. "Very few relationships are formed, most of it is
about the sex or the benefits," said Okem. "The majority of
'passive' [recipient] gay men have accepted their sexuality ... some 'actives'
may have done it once or twice and liked it – but wouldn't agree they are gay.
There is a financial exchange then, but more usually it is actives that take
money for sex." Getting organised Gays and lesbians are
beginning to organise: at least 10 groups have been formed in Nigeria and are pressing for better representation in the AIDS response, which the
government seems ready to grant. Alliance Rights Nigeria, one of the oldest, was
set up in 1999 in response to the toll of AIDS deaths among MSM, who were
"dying in ignorance", said the group's executive director, Ifeanyi
Orazulike. Unlike Okem, who has not
told his parents or ruled out getting married, Orazulike is open about his
sexuality and feels attitudes are beginning to change. "People are coming
to the realisation that there are gays in Nigeria ," he told IRIN/PlusNews. "There is a level of toleration." In the Muslim north there
has historically been a cultural acceptance of "Dan Daudu" – men who
live as women – despite the contradiction to traditional Islamic teaching. But
even in the south, with its avowedly macho outlook on life, Orazulike said he
had never been confronted with anti-gay aggression. That could be a testament
both to his discretion, and to the innocent incredulity with which many
Nigerians regard homosexuality. "We don't intend to
rub people's faces in it, otherwise they are forced to react; just live your
life," Orazulike explained. That approach is likely to guide Nigeria 's AIDS response to the gay and lesbian community, where a little tact may be
required to avoid the attention of the national assembly and some of the more
conservative elements in government. "There will be no
specific intervention response that targets this group," said the
researcher, who works for a major funding agency. "It will be a package to
address the most at-risk groups, and we'll reach them that way, but not as a
population cohort themselves." * Not his real name NIGERIA : Sex, trucks and HIV 13 Aug 2008 17:43:12 GMT Source: IRIN Reuters and AlertNet are
not responsible for the content of this article or for any external internet
sites. The views expressed are the author's alone. ELEME, 13 August 2008 - Petrol
tankers parked nose-to-tail line the five-kilometre stretch of road from the
southern Nigerian town of Eleme to its refinery, waiting to fuel up and begin
their long journey home. If the trip runs smoothly,
a tanker leaving the big cities of the north at dawn should arrive at Eleme, in
the troubled oil-rich delta region, by early evening. The following day the fuel
company's representative fights to get a "ticket" for the driver,
authorising the consignment. With the allotted load on board, the gear-grinding
exhaust-belching trucks nudge their way out of the depot and into the traffic. But because things do not
usually go to plan, there is a thriving roadside service industry taking care of
stalled truckers, refinery workers, fuel dealers and anybody else looking for
accommodation, banks, butchers, bars, mechanics, places of worship, restaurants,
laundry services, film halls, cell phone kiosks – and sex. More than 100 women from
all over Nigeria work out of the tiny wooden shacks at the heart of the community. They pay N300
(US$2) a day for their rooms - not much bigger than the space taken by a single
mattress, without electricity or running water - and charge a minimum of N300
for sex. Eleme, on the southern rim
of Rivers State , one of the four core delta states, is one of the largest of a string of eight
truck stops along the 800km route into the north where commercial sex is
available. Rivers has an HIV
prevalence rate of 5.4 percent, above the national average of 4.4 percent, but
not the worst result in the country; that position is held by the state of Benue,
in central Nigeria , with an infection rate of 10 percent. Rivers, however, is at the
centre of delta militancy, in which armed young men have proved themselves
willing and able to take on the armed forces of the federal government to press
their demands for a fairer sharing of Nigeria 's wealth, almost exclusively derived from the oil and gas of the region. AIDS and insecurity Dr C. Okeh, head of the
State Action Committee on HIV/AIDS in Rivers, worries that the unrest will have
an impact on the fight against the virus. At the very least, "a crisis
situation means that you don't have time to listen to [AIDS] messages – you're
thinking of your immediate survival," he told IRIN/PlusNews. Queen Henry is the peer
educator for the sex workers in Eleme, part of a community-based organisation
supported by the Society for Family Health, Nigeria 's largest AIDS service provider. For her, the most pressing concern is the
insecurity in the area. Soldiers based at the
nearby river jetty, where cargo ships take on fuel pumped from the refinery
through a bundle of pipes, each the width of a man's waist, have decreed an
unofficial 9 p.m. curfew on the sex trade. Enforcing it has meant regular raids
on the shacks, kicking out customers and beating women not inside their rooms. But the AIDS message is
sinking in, condoms are cheap and available, and the sex workers are organised.
Henry has no doubt that all the women she reaches know in theory the importance
of protection. "But the problem is you're not in the room with the girls
when they are alone with a customer," she explained. "If eager for
money, you do it [without a condom]; if you want to protect your life, you
don't," was her matter-of-fact assessment. That triggered a
mini-debate among the women gathered outside her small kiosk, where she sells
tonics and douches. "Two thousand naira [roughly US$17, what some women
charge for sex without a condom] cannot cure the sickness inside my body [as a
result of HIV]. I have seen money [had a lot of it]; I'm too young to die. It's
not because of [greed that] I'll go and mess up my life," said Patience
Orkah, wearing black hot-pants and a lot of make-up. All the women agreed,
except Charity Ekiti. "All I know is I [get the] money, I f***," she
chipped in. "If I [don't die as a result of AIDS], I still go die. I only
know God [won't] let that happen." Loud and outrageous, it was hard to tell
if she was serious. But what she made clear was that she did not bother using
condoms with her boyfriend: "It's not sweet like that." Why condoms are still an
issue is because of men like Umoru, 36, who has a wife in the north but works
from Eleme as a tanker driver hauling fuel to the southern cities. He visits his
wife every three months or so, and in the interim – "just two or three
times" - calls on sex workers and offers double the normal rate not to use
a rubber. "They tell me [to wear one] but I no fit do am [I can't do it]
with condom." He said some of the women
would refuse bareback sex, "even if you give them one million naira".
But he knows some who are less fastidious, and they are his regular partners.
"I fear [but everything that happens] is through God" was how he
rationalised the risk. Chinenye Imoh sits at a
table under an umbrella all day, handing out information pamphlets to truckers
for the Arewa Society Against HIV/AIDS, a community-based organisation. She has
heard all the excuses before, especially by drivers from the more conservative
Muslim north, where discussion about sex is less open, literacy is low, and
girls often quit school and marry early. "Some say people [in
the past also became] emaciated and died. Others say, 'no sickness wey no get
medicine' [every ailment has a cure] ... but we're trying," was her upbeat
message. Kerala
reserves govt job for HIV-positive - report Wed, Aug 13 02:25 PM NEW DELHI (Reuters) - The Kerala government has reserved a job for a
    HIV-positive candidate, a step that has won praise for its sensitivity
    towards patients afflicted with the killer virus, The Times of India said on
    Wednesday. The Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) said they had issued
    advertisements for the post of coordinator -- to be filled by an
    HIV-positive candidate. "It will also help us send our message in a better way as the
    channel of communication will be better," the societys project director
    Usha Titus told the newspaper. Voluntary organisations in India working in the field of AIDS prevention
    have welcomed the initiative in a country which accounts for roughly half
    the estimated HIV-infected populati