Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 06:41:11 GMT
X-Varnish: 2080385169
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
age: 0
X-Cache: MISS

Natural Herbal Treatments - Ginkgo Biloba Home > Herbal Glossary > G-H > Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo Biloba Nicknamed as a “living fossil”, the Ginkgo biloba is a unique tree that remains unchanged
through the passage of time. It has been in existence since the time of the dinosaurs and therefore considered as
the sole living link between the lower and higher plants. The Chinese, and later the Japanese, who called it
Ginkyo, meaning “silver apricot” referred to it as a symbol of longevity because of its history. The Plant The Ginkgo biloba is classified under gymnosperms (meaning “naked seeds”) for its seeds are not enclosed in a
ripened fruit but are protected only by a fleshy seed coat. The Ginkgo biloba is distinguished from other
gymnosperms by its fan-shaped foliages. Its leaves are bi-lobed, hence the name “biloba.” A Ginkgo biloba tree can grow up to about 30 or 40 meters (100 ft.) in height and spread its foliage across 9
meters of space. The trunk can be as wide as 4 meters (13 ft.) in diameter and in open areas, can even become wider
than that. The girth of Ginkgo bilobas that grow in temple grounds are about 10 meters in diameter. The Ginkgo biloba has branches that may be long or short growing at nearly right angles. Because of the highly
variable branches of the Ginkgo, older trees are usually irregular in form. The buds of are mounded with distinct
form and leaf scars. The short leaf shoots clustered near the tip of the branch produce the seeds and the
pollen. The leaves of the Ginkgo biloba are its most recognizable feature. They are 5-8 cm wide and sometimes even twice
as broad as that. They also resemble the leafshape of a Maidenhair fern (Adiantum), hence it is often referred to
as the “Maidenhair tree.” During fall, the leaves turn a brilliant gold making the people in the olden times think
it precious; so much so that they called it “tree of forty gold crowns” for that was how much it cost in former
times. Health Benefits In the last three decades, the Ginkgo biloba has been proven to prevent many problems and ailments throughout
the entire body. It is gaining recognition as a brian tonic, enhancing the memory as it positively affects the
vascular system, especially the cerebellum. Ginkgo biloba is also used as treatment for vertigo, tinnitus (ringing
in the ears), and a variety of neurological disorders and circulation problems. Because of its strangely soothing
effects on the neurological aspects of the body, it is also believed to help counteract the effects of aging,
including mental fatigue and lack of energy. The Ginkgo biloba has the ability to increase blood flow to the brain and throughout the body’s network of blood
vessels. These vessels are very important since they supply the blood and oxygen to the organs. Because of this
ability of the Ginkgo biloba tree, it promotes increased metabolic rate, regulates neurotransmitters, and boosts
oxygen levels in the brain. Preparation Tips Ginkgo biloba was used in the ancient times as a water-based herb so it may be effective as a tea. However, some
studies have suggested that Ginkgo biloba doesn’t break down in water. Fortunately, the herb is available in
capsules, tinctures, or powdered form. As a tea, it blends well with sage, rosemary, and Gotu kola. Latest Health News DISCLAIMER : This information is not presented by a medical practitioner and is
for educational and informational purposes only. The content is not intended to be a substitute for professional
medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health care
provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice
or delay in seeking it because of something you have read. Since natural and/or dietary supplements are not FDA approved they must be accompanied
by a two-part disclaimer on the product label: that the statement has not been evaluated by FDA and that the
product is not intended to “diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.” □ Herbal Glossary □ G-H □ Site Map Copyright 200