
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 09:22:13 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cough & Cold Remedies - Natural Ways to Treat Cough & Cold Art & Entertainment | Automobiles | Beauty & Fashion | Gadgets & Gizmos | Health & Fitness | Home & Living | Parenting & Family | Travel | Society Latest in Lifestyle » Uncontrollable Shaking » Abdominal Tightness » How To Choose The Right Hydration Pack » Tips For Eating Out The Healthy Way » How To Do Dumbbell Press » Weight Watchers Dinner Ideas » Food Sources Of Vitamin D » Causes Of Heart Attack » How To Deadlift » Eyebright Benefits » Alcohol Hangover Symptoms » Spine Pain Causes » How To Increase Chances Of Getting Pregnant » Vitamin C Side Effects » Nail Biting Causes » How To Help Someone With Depression » How To Stop Being Depressed » Causes Of Hypoxia » How To Gain Height » How To Get Rid Of Tummy Fat Lifestyle Lounge : Health & Fitness : 
   	Cough & Cold Cough & cold are common health problems that affect all of us at least once a year. Check out useful information on cough and cold in this section. SEARCH Cough & Cold Recommend This Site Add to Favorites » How To Get Rid Of Cold Quickly Down with a terrible cold and are unable to continue with work? Bid good bye to the cold quickly with some fast home remedies listed in this article. » How To Fight A Cold A cold is the most common, and one of the few diseases without any cure till date.  Scroll the article to learn how to fight a cold. » Stages of Cold No one likes getting the flu, but lamentably it is almost impossible to live a life without the prospect of getting the flu. Peer into this article to know more on the stages of cold. » Types Of Coughs Cough can be annoying, but did you know that it actually helps in healing your body & indicates the presence of a complex disease? Read on to know about the different types/kinds of coughs present. » Bronchitis Natural Remedies There are some everyday foods and household items that can be used to control bronchitis. Explore this article to learn more about them. » Cold And Flu Remedies Colds and flu cause pain and discomfort which can be effectively eased naturally. Explore this article to know the different natural home remedies for cold and flu. » Herbal Remedies For Common Cold Common cold is the most prevalent ailment. Read the article below to know some common cold herbal remedies. » Common Cold Myths Common cold has several myths associated with it. Read on to learn about the top myths about common cold. » How To Get Rid Of Phlegm Phlegm is a sticky fluid that gets attached to the lining of your bronchial tubes and lungs and getting rid of it is essential. Read on to find some useful tips on how to get rid of phlegm. » Symptoms Of Croup Croup is an infectious childhood disease that causes difficulty in breathing and a barking cough. Go through this article, to explore the signs and symptoms of croup. » How To Prevent Cold And Flu Cold and flu can render you helpless, once they manage to grip you. This article provides the most beneficial tips on cold and flu prevention. Read it and know how to prevent them. » Natural Cold Remedies A runny nose, a sore throat and sneezing is never a pretty sight. Here are some of the natural remedies for the common cold so that you don’t have to pop a pill every time you sneeze. » Homemade Honey Cough Syrup Homemade honey cough syrup can be made as effective as the one prescribed by your physician. Go through the article and get some easy honey cough syrup recipes. » Natural Remedies For Bronchitis Check out some simple natural remedies for bronchitis. » Getting Rid Of Cough Getting rid of cough is quite easy with the help of some homemade remedies. Find out information on natural cures for cough. » Natural Cough Suppressant Natural cough suppressants are homemade, yet very effective. Those who like to avoid allopathic medicines can make use of cough suppressing home remedies given here. » How To Get Rid Of Cough Home remedies are the best for getting rid of a persistent cough. Read on further and know how to get rid of cough, with the help of natural treatments. » What Food To Avoid With A Cold There are certain foods that, if avoided during a cold core, can lead to earlier recovery. With this article, know what food to avoid with a cold. » Remedies For Dry Cough Dry cough can weaken the lungs and tire you if not treated at the nascent stage. Check out natural home remedy for treating dry cough. Top Topics » Abdominal Exercises » Acne » Acupressure » Aerobics » Alcoholism » Allergies » Antioxidants » Aromatherapy » Arthritis » Autism » Ayurveda » Back Pain » Bicep Exercises » Birth Control » Body Building » Body Massage » Cancer » Child's Health » Cholesterol » Common Diseases » Constipation » Contact Lens » Cough & Cold » Dehydration » Dental Care » Depression » Detox » Diabetes » Dieting » Diets » Essential Oils » Eye Care » Facial Exercises » Fasting » Fat Burning » Fruits Nutritional Facts » Green Tea » Hair Fall » Headache » Health & Wellness Products » Health Foods » Healthy Diet » Healthy Eating » Healthy Living » Healthy Sleeping » Heart Diseases » Herbs » High Blood Pressure » Hygiene » Information on Breastfeeding » Legumes Nutritional Facts » Low Blood Pressure » Mental Health » Natural Cures » Nutrition » Nuts & Seeds Nutrition » Obesity » Oral Care » Poultry & Meat Nutrition » Pregnancy » Psychological Disorders » Running & Jogging » Seafood Nutritional Facts » Senior Health » Sexual Health » Side Effects » Sinus » Smoking » Spa Treatment » Stomach Problems » Stress Management » Swimming Exercises » Symptoms & Causes » Tea Benefits » Useful Health Tips » Vegetables Nutritional Facts » Vitamins » Weight Loss » Womens Health » Workouts & Exercises » Yoga Delhi Hotels | Hyderabad Hotels | Chennai Hotels | Mumbai Hotels || Contact Us | Careers | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Advertise With Us | Lifestyle