Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Hypnotherapy: Seven Wellbeing skip to main content To find out more please call 01642 662785 Home Clinical Services The Therapies Acupuncture Acupuncture for Facial Rejuvenation Aromatherapy Counselling Foot Care Clinic Hypnotherapy Managing Stress Massage Reflexology Relaxation Tai Chi Think Slim! Occupational Health Commissioned Services Services to GPs Individual Appointments Referral Procedure Case Studies Education and Training Complementary Therapy Diplomas What to expect as a Student Who are the Diploma courses for? ITEC accredited individual Unit courses awarding QCF cred-its and individual CPD study days. ITEC Level 3 Diploma in Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology ITEC Level 3 Diploma in Aromatherapy ITEC Level 3 Diploma in Complementary Therapy Techniques ITEC Level 3 Diploma in Massage ITEC Level 3 Diploma in Reflexology Short Courses and Workshops Acupressure for Symptom Management Acupuncture in Cancer and Palliative Care Auricular Acupuncture for Pain Management Emergency First Aid in the Work Place Continued Professional Development Aromatherapy for Children Aromatherapy in Pregnancy Complementary Therapies for Pain Management Counselling Skills for Complementary Therapists Daoyin Tao Practioner Course Essential Oil Chemistry Indian Head Massage Introduction to Aromatherapy & Massage Introduction to Bach Flower Remedies Introduction to Managing Lymphoedema On-Site Chair Massage Palliative Care Course For Complementary Therapists Reflective Practice for Complementary Therapists The NADA Protocol for Hot Sweats in Cancer Patients Other Courses Course Calendar Book a Place The Facilities Case Studies Financial Assistance Why Seven Wellbeing Our Pedigree Therapists Andrea Lambell Ann Whiteford Supporting Butterwick Hospice News Contact Us Enquiry Form Location Map You are here: Seven Wellbeing » Clinical Services » The Therapies » Hypnotherapy Clinical Services The Therapies Acupuncture Acupuncture for Facial Rejuvenation Aromatherapy Counselling Foot Care Clinic Hypnotherapy Managing Stress Massage Reflexology Relaxation Tai Chi Think Slim! Occupational Health Commissioned Services Services to GPs Individual Appointments Referral Procedure Case Studies Hypnotherapy What is hypnotherapy? Hypnosis is a very natural and safe phenomenon that many of us have experienced. Indeed every time you become focused on a T.V. programme, daydream or think about what you will be doing later in the day you are experiencing a hypnotic or altered state of consciousness. A hypnotic trance is simply a state of relaxed but focused attention, which can only be induced with your agreement. You cannot be hypnotised against your will and you will generally be aware of everything that happens during a session. What happens during a treatment? Initially you will be invited to consult with a hypnotherapist so that a full assessment of your problem can be made. This allows you to plan and agree an effective programme of treatment. If hypnosis is agreed as a way forward, you may then be invited to experience hypnosis by being guided towards a state of deep relaxation, which most people find very pleasant. A full treatment will be made to affect the desired positive changes. Can I be hypnotised? Yes, everyone has the ability to enter a hypnotic state, but you must want to be hypnotised. The hypnotherapist does not take over control of your mind and cannot make you do anything that you do not want to. Hypnosis is simply a way of communication with your subconscious mind in order to make changes that are good for you. If you do want to be hypnotised, then hypnosis can work very effectively for you. What can be treated? Hypnotherapy is a very powerful tool in contributing towards the successful treatment of a range of conditions including: Stress, anxiety and panic attacks Sleep problems Chronic fatigue and chronic illness Problems with confidence, self-esteem and assertiveness Body image problems Breathlessness Nausea Weight loss Stop smoking Phobias Pain control Tinnitus Exam nerves Sports performance The list is endless and if you have any problems that you think hypnotherapy may be able to help with, the best thing to do is ask our practitioners for free advice. Is hypnotherapy suitable for me? Hypnotherapy is a very safe treatment for most people but if you are having medical treatment for any condition it is important that you let the hypnotherapist know, particularly if you might need medication during the treatment. It is important that you let your hypnotherapist know if you: Have any allergies Are pregnant Have epilepsy or seizures Are diabetic Have a heart or breathing condition including asthma Have a history of mental health problems It is also important to tell the hypnotherapist about any medications you are taking. If you have any concerns as to whether treatment is suitable for you please speak to your hypnotherapist first. In most cases, treatment will still be given but adapted to your specific requirements. There are no real side effects to hypnotherapy but some people feel very relaxed or drowsy after a session and you should not drive or return to work until you feel fully able to do so. Referrals Self referrals or through a GP or Consultant are accepted. If you are receiving funding through medical insurance or private medicine schemes, a written referral from your GP or Consultant is required. Written pre-authorisation from the insurer is necessary prior to treatment and we will then invoice them directly. Charges Single treatment                                             £60 Group relaxation session (6-10 people)           £15 each Think Slim! Weight Loss 1 Day Seminar             (Price on application) Stop Smoking                                                 (Price on application) Usual treatment times are 75 minutes dependant on condition. Sometimes a longer appointment is necessary in which case an extra charge may be made. This will be explained to you at the time of booking. Appointments cancelled with less than 24 hours notice will incur the minimum treatment charge. Payment is required at the end of each treatment in cash or by cheque. Cheques are payable to Seven Wellbeing Centre Ltd. Credit card payments can be taken but incur a 3% (maximum) admin charge. Seven Wellbeing Centre Seven Wellbeing Centre Ltd is a social enterprise company of Butterwick Hospice Care. All of our profits are used to provide free care for our hospice patients. If you are receiving care, or are eligible for hospice care, your treatment will remain free of charge. All of your treatment will be provided by fully qualified practitioners. Your hypnotherapist is: Chris King, email: chrisking@live.co.uk Telephone: 01642 826507. For further information contact: Gwyn Featonby, Director, Seven Wellbeing Centre, Middlefield Road, Stockton on Tees, TS19 8XN. Telephone: 01642 607742       Fax: 01642 617641    Email: gwynfeatonby@butterwick.org.uk Clinical Services The Therapies Occupational Health Commissioned Services Services to GPs Individual Appointments Referral Procedure Case Studies Education & Training Complementary Therapy Diplomas Short Courses and Workshops Continued Professional Development Other Courses Course Calendar Book a Place The Facilities Case Studies Financial Assistance © Copyright Seven Wellbeing Centre Limited 2012. Company Registration number: 6874997. Registered in England & Wales.  Registered address: Middlefield Road, Stockton on Tees, TS19 8XN. See our privacy policy and terms and conditions . Go to top of