Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

PreventDisease - Diet and Fitness Resource Food That Help Fight Disease Home Contact Us Products Diet Programs Recipes Nutrition Resource Food Charts Vitamins & 
              Minerals Exercise Programs Exercise Graphics Tests Health Articles Foods That Fight Disease The following foods have been 
            found to fight disease. If you have a chronic disease you may want 
            to incorporate some of these foods into your diet on a regular 
            bases. Choosing the right foods can also act as a preventive 
            measure. Banana Soothes the stomach. Good for dyspepsia (upset stomach.) Strengthens 
            the stomach lining against acid and ulcers. Has antibiotic activity. 
            High in potassium which lowers blood pressure. Barley Long known as a "heart medicine" in the Middle East. Reduces 
            cholesterol. Has antiviral and anticancer activity. Contains potent 
            antioxidants, including tocotrienols. Celery A traditional Vietnamese remedy for high blood pressure. Contains 
            eight different families of anticancer compounds, such as phthalides 
            and polyacetylenes, which detoxify carcinogens, especially cigarette 
            smoke. Eating celery before or after vigorous exercise can induce 
            mild allergic reactions. Fish and Fish Oil An exceedingly remarkable therapeutic and preventive food. An ounce 
            a day has been shown to cut risk of heart attacks by 50 percent. Oil 
            in fish can relieve symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, 
            osteoarthritis, asthma, psoriasis, high blood pressure, Raynaud's 
            disease, migraine headaches, ulcerative colitis, and possibly, 
            multiple sclerosis. May help ward off strokes. A known 
            anti-inflammatory agent and anticoagulant. Raises good type 
            HDL-cholesterol and slashes triglycerides dramatically. May help 
            guard against development of glucose intolerance and Type II 
            diabetes. Some fish are high in antioxidants, such as selenium and 
            co-enzyme Q-10. Fish and fish oil exhibits anticancer activity, 
            especially in blocking development of colon cancer and the spread of 
            breast cancer. Note: Fish highest in Omega-3 fatty acids appear to be the 
            most protective (sardines, mackerel, herring, salmon, and tuna). Garlic An all-around wonder drug used to treat an array of ills since the 
            dawn of civilization. Garlic is an antibiotic that combats bacteria, 
            intestinal parasites and viruses. In high doses it has cured 
            encephalitis (sleeping sickness). Lowers blood pressure and blood 
            cholesterol, discourages dangerous blood clotting. Two or three 
            cloves a day cut the odds of subsequent heart attacks in half for 
            heart patients. The National Cancer Institute lists it as a 
            potential cancer-preventive food. Lessens chances of stomach cancer 
            in particular. Acts as a decongestant, expectorant, antispasmodic, 
            anti-inflammatory agent. Boosts immune responses. Helps relieve gas. 
            Has antidiarrheal, estrogenic and diuretic activity. Appears to lift 
            mood and has a mild calming effect. To fight bacteria, raw garlic is 
            better. However, cooking does not diminish garlic's blood thinning 
            and other cardioprotective capabilities, including releasing 
            antithrombotic ajoene. Potato Contains anticancer protease inhibitors. High in potassium, thus may 
            help prevent high blood pressure and strokes. Some estrogenic 
            activity. Sweet Potato A blockbuster source of the antioxidant beta-carotene. Lowers blood 
            pressure and is linked to preventing heart disease, cataracts, 
            strokes and numerous cancers. One half cup of mashed sweet potato 
            contains about 14 milligrams of beta-carotene, or about 23,000 IUs. Wine In moderation, a glass or two a day, benefits cardiovascular system. 
            Both red and white wines boost heart-protecting HDL cholesterol. Red 
            wine, in particular, seems to help ward off heart disease, blood 
            clots and strokes because grape skins contain blood-thinning agents. 
            (Grape skins are used in making red wine, but not white wine.) 
            Boosts estrogen levels, which may accentuate wine’s HDL-raising 
            effects. Kills bacteria, inhibits viruses. May also discourage 
            gallstones, Red wine is a trigger of migraine headaches in some 
            individuals. In excess, wine, because of its alcohol, can cause 
            heart, liver and brain damage. Foods That Help Diabetics The following foods have been found to fight disease. If you have a 
            chronic disease you may want to incorporate some of these foods into 
            your diet on a regular bases. Choosing the rights foods can also act 
            as a preventive measure. Beans Potent medicine for lowering cholesterol. One-half cup of cooked 
            beans reduces cholesterol an average of 10 percent. Regulates blood 
            sugar levels. An excellent food for diabetics. Linked to lower rates 
            of certain cancers. Very high in fiber (15g per 1/2 cup). Broccoli A spectacular and unique package of versatile disease fighters. 
            Abundant in numerous strong, well-known antioxidants, including 
            quercetin, glutathione, beta-carotene, indoles, vitamin C, lutein, 
            glaciered, and sulforaphane. Extremely high anticancer activity, 
            particularly against lung, colon and breast cancers. Like other 
            cruciferous vegetables, it speeds up the removal of estrogen from 
            the body, which help suppress breast cancer. Rich in cholesterol-reducing fiber. Has antiviral, anti-ulcer 
            activity. A super source of chromium that helps regulate insulin and 
            blood sugar. Note: Cooking and processing destroys some of the antioxidants and 
            antiestrogenic agents, such as indoles and glutathione. Most 
            protective when eaten raw or lightly cooked, as in stir frying and 
            micro-waving. Cinnamon A strong stimulator of insulin activity; thus, potentially helpful 
            for those with Type II diabetes. Mild anticoagulant activity. Fenugreek Seeds A spice common in the Middle East and available in many U.S. food 
            markets. Has antidiabetic powers. Helps control surges of blood 
            sugar and insulin. Has antidiarrheal, anti-ulcer, antidiabetic, 
            anticancer powers, lowers blood pressure and prevents intestinal 
            gas. Fish and Fish Oil An exceedingly remarkable therapeutic and preventive food. An ounce 
            a day has been shown to cut risk of heart attacks by 50 percent. Oil 
            in fish can relieve symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, 
            osteoarthritis, asthma, psoriasis, high blood pressure, Raynaud's 
            disease, migraine headaches, ulcerative colitis, and possibly, 
            multiple sclerosis. May help ward off strokes. A known 
            anti-inflammatory agent and anticoagulant. Raises good type 
            HDL-cholesterol and slashes triglycerides dramatically. May help 
            guard against development of glucose intolerance and Type II 
            diabetes. Some fish are high in antioxidants, such as selenium and 
            co-enzyme Q-10. Fish and fish oil exhibits anticancer activity, 
            especially in blocking development of colon cancer and the spread of 
            breast cancer. Note: Fish highest in Omega-3 fatty acids appear to be the most protective 
            (sardines, mackerel, herring, salmon, and tuna). Nuts Anticancer and heart-protective properties. Walnuts and almonds help 
            reduce cholesterol, because nuts contain high concentrations of 
            antioxidant oleic acid and monounsaturated fat, similar to that in 
            olive oil, known to protect arteries from damage. Nuts generally are 
            high in antioxidant vitamin E, shown to protect against chest pain 
            (angina) and artery damage. Nuts are also good regulators of insulin 
            and blood sugar, preventing steep rises and making them good foods 
            for those with glucose intolerance and diabetes. Peanuts also are 
            estrogenic. Olive Oil An artery protector that lowers bad LDL cholesterol without lowering 
            good HDL cholesterol. Helps keep LDL from being converted to a toxic 
            or "oxidized" form; thus, helps protect arteries from plaque. 
            Reduces blood pressure and helps regulate blood sugar. Has potent 
            antioxidant activity. May help ward off cancer. Onion (Including chives, shallots, scallions, and leeks) An exceptionally strong antioxidant. Full of numerous anticancer 
            agents. The onion is the richest dietary source of quercetin, a 
            potent antioxidant (in shallots, yellow and red onions only not 
            white onions). Specially linked to inhibiting human stomach cancer. 
            Thins the blood, lowers cholesterol, raises HDL-cholesterol (good), 
            wards off blood clots, fights asthma, chronic bronchitis, hay fever, 
            diabetes, atherosclerosis and infections. Also acts as 
            anti-inflammatory, antibiotic, and antiviral agent. Thought to have 
            diverse anticancer powers. How much? The preferred dose is about 
            half a raw onion a day. Rice (White and Brown) Antidiarrheal, anticancer activity. Like other 
            seeds, contains anticancer protease inhibitors. Of all grains and 
            cereals, it is the least likely to provoke intestinal gas or adverse 
            reactions (intolerance), causing bowel distress such as spastic 
            colon. Rice bran is excellent against constipation, lowers 
            cholesterol and tends to block development of kidney stones. Brown 
            rice lowers blood glucose levels better than white rice, because the 
            pancreas produces less insulin, which prevents excess insulin from 
            being stored as fat. PreventDisease.com © 
         - All Rights Reserved. All 
              diet, exercise, or health information presented by PreventDisease.com is for education purposes only. 
            The material is not intended to be a substitute for medical 
            counseling. The site is intended to help you make informed decisions 
            about your diet, exercise, and health. Before adhering to any of the 
            information or recommendations presented throughout the PreventDisease.com web 
            site, if you have concerns, you should consult with yo