
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 06:31:19 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:31:19 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Honey for Coughs - Can I Use Honey for Coughs About.com Health Alternative Medicine Alternative Medicine Search Alternative Medicine Supplements Treatments By Condition Share Free Alternative Medicine Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Honey for Coughs By Cathy Wong , About.com Guide Created December 22, 2010 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: cold and flu remedies antioxidants Honey has long been used as a natural remedy for coughs , a common symptom of colds , bronchitis , and the flu . Rich in vitamins, minerals, antioxidants , and antibacterial compounds, honey is thought to soothe the throat and serve as a cough suppressant. To date, however, research on honey's cough-suppressing effects has yielded mixed results. The Science Behind Honey and Coughs For a 2010 report in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews , scientists sized up all available clinical trials comparing honey (given alone or in combination with antibiotics ) with no treatment, placebo , or over-the-counter medications for relief of cough in children. The only study to fit screening criteria was a trial that compared the effects of honey, dextromethorphan (a cough-suppressing medication), and no treatment on cough and sleep quality among 108 children with upper respiratory tract infections. Study results showed that honey was more effective in reducing cough frequency and improving sleep quality (compared to no treatment), but failed to ease the severity of cough. Researchers also found that dextromethorphan and honey did not differ significantly in their effects on cough and sleep quality. Given this trial's findings, the authors of the 2010 review concluded that there is "insufficient evidence to advise for or against the use of honey for acute cough in children." However, in another review (published in the Journal of Family Practice in 2009), researchers concluded that honey may modestly decrease the frequency and severity of cough among people with acute upper respiratory tract infections. Should You Use Honey to Treat Coughs? Although there is currently a lack of scientific support for the theory that honey can treat coughs, honey may relieve coughing to some degree (and most likely won't trigger any adverse effects). For more help in easing a cough, the National Institutes of Health recommend drinking plenty of water and/or moisturizing the air with the help of a vaporizer. You might also consider using other natural remedies for cough relief, such as marshmallow and mullein . If your cough lasts longer than two to three weeks, consult your physician to check for an underlying health problem (such as asthma , allergies , and throat disorders). It should be noted that honey cannot treat any underlying condition known to cause coughs. Sources: Dealleaume L, Tweed B, Neher JO. "Do OTC remedies relieve cough in acute URIs?" J Fam Pract. 2009 Oct;58(10):559a-c. Oduwole O, Meremikwu MM, Oyo-Ita A, Udoh EE. "Honey for acute cough in children." Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Jan 20;(1):CD007094. Paul IM, Beiler J, McMonagle A, Shaffer ML, Duda L, Berlin CM Jr. "Effect of honey, dextromethorphan, and no treatment on nocturnal cough and sleep quality for coughing children and their parents." Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2007 Dec;161(12):1140-6. National Institutes of Health. " Cough: MedlinePlus ". June 2010. Related Articles Common Cold Remedies Honey Remedies Natural Treatment for Cough Relief Related Articles Coughs and Cough Syrup Kids and Cough Medications - Using Cough Medications on Kids Prescription Cough Medications - The Problem With Prescription Cough Medica... Korean Home Remedy for Cough - Natural Remedy for Cough and Sore Throat Honey for Cough - Does Honey Cure Coughing Cathy Wong Alternative Medicine Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches cochrane database of systematic reviews respiratory tract infections antibacterial compounds upper respiratory tract infections Explore Alternative Medicine Must Reads Are My Supplements Safe? Popular Herbs Massage: Worth the Money? Before You Detox Sleep Better - Naturally Most Popular Detox Quiz Stool - What's Healthy? The Detox Diet Green Stool High Blood Pressure Remedies See More About: cold and flu remedies antioxidants By Category Acupuncture to Yoga The Basics Conditions & Remedies Herbs & Supplements Diets Healthy Recipes Massage Therapy Mind & Body Find a Practitioner Natural Health Schools Alternative Medicine About.com Health Alternative Medicine Conditions & Remedies Colds and Flu Honey for Coughs - Can I Use Honey for Coughs> Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod