
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 15:03:00 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Set-Cookie: SID=187285829%2D44986578%2D128220779;path=/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Set-Cookie: persistence=1309021100.20480.0000; expires=Sun, 09-Nov-2014 15:03:00 GMT; path=/
Vary: Accept-Encoding

Acupuncture at Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) Contact Us To discuss your treatment options please call 888-841-9129 anytime. About Us Become a Patient Cancers Hospitals Doctors Treatments Survivors Our Treatment Results Go Cancer Treatments How We Diagnose You How We Treat You Chemotherapy Radiation Therapy Surgical Oncology Gastroenterology Hormone Therapy Immunotherapy Interventional Pulmonology Interventional Radiology Neurosurgery Orthopedic Oncology Stem Cell Transplantation How We Support You Acupuncture Chiropractic Care Image Enhancement Mind-Body Medicine Naturopathic Medicine Nutrition Therapy Oncology Rehabilitation Pain Management Spiritual Support Survivorship Support CareEdge SM Diagnosis & Treatment Plan Integrative Cancer Treatment Patient Empowered Care ® First Name: First name is required. Last Name: Last name is required. E-mail: An e-mail is required. A valid e-mail is required. Thank You! Each month, you will receive our free newsletter offering tips to help you and/or your loved one manage the cancer journey. Read the latest issue View a sample newsletter Visit the newsletter archive Home / Cancer Treatments / How We Support You / Acupuncture Acupuncture Learn More About Acupuncture: Chat with Us | Email Us What is Acupuncture? Acupuncture is a form of ancient Chinese medicine in which fine, sterile needles are applied to specific areas of the body, or acupoints, to stimulate energy flow (or “chi”). 
The needles are usually left in place for a few minutes (skilled acupuncturists cause virtually no pain). Energy is believed to circulate throughout the body along specific pathways called 
meridians. When energy is flowing freely through the meridians, the immune system is stimulated, which is thought to bring on a healing response and balance. When the flow of energy is 
disturbed or off-balance, pain or illness may occur. A goal of acupuncture is to restore balance and healthy energy flow to the body to control pain and other symptoms. Worldwide, acupuncture is sometimes used for conditions in which conventional approaches have failed, or as a complement to traditional medicine. In the United States and Europe, 
acupuncture is primarily used to control pain and relieve symptoms of disease, but not to cure the disease itself. Some people find acupuncture useful for helping to stop an addictive 
behavior, such as smoking or alcoholism. Others may find it useful for relieving ailments such as headaches, low back pain, fibromyalgia, asthma, or carpal tunnel syndrome. Acupuncture in Cancer Care Acupuncture is not used by itself as a treatment for cancer. Rather, it is used in combination with traditional cancer treatment options to help relieve symptoms related to cancer and cancer treatment. In some cases, acupuncture may help to alleviate treatment-related side effects , such as nausea and vomiting, as well as other common symptoms, such as stress. Some individuals also find that acupuncture helps relieve fatigue, pain 
and neuropathy associated with cancer and its treatment. Acupuncture at CTCA At Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA), we understand that everyone is different. We also understand that to fight cancer well, you need to attack it from all angles, on all 
fronts. That is why, in addition to conventional cancer treatment options , we also offer a variety of complementary 
therapies—including acupuncture. The goal of our Acupuncture Program is to enhance your natural healing response while you are receiving your traditional cancer 
treatments . Our acupuncturists are experienced practitioners who aim to alleviate treatment-related side effects, such as nausea and vomiting, pain, and other common symptoms, 
such as stress. If you are interested in acupuncture, and if your oncologist permits, it will be integrated into your personalized cancer treatment plan. Also, as you receive treatments, your acupuncturist 
will be in regular communication with your care team to evaluate your progress. Chat Now. We're here 24/7. First Name Last Name Email Who are you seeking cancer care for? - - - - - - - - - - - - - Myself My spouse A family member A friend None of the above What type of insurance do you have? - - - - - - - - - - - - - PPO Blue Cross HMO Medicare/Medicaid No Insurance Other I have read and understand the disclaimer . Hear from CTCA Patients Learn how patients & staff work together Take a tour of a CTCA hospital Add to Favorites Chat Live Now 888-841-9129 Additional Resources: Cancer Survivors Become a Patient A-Z Cancer List Cancer Treatment Site Map | Cancer Types | Cancer Glossary About CTCA | Cancer Information | Cancer Treatments | Cancer Hospitals Cancer Doctors | Cancer Survivors | Cancer Videos Copyright | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Editorial Polic