
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 06 Apr 2012 00:01:18 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Fri, 06 Apr 2012 00:01:19 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=windows-1251

Coffee articles: Coffees and Caffeine Coffee history From crop to cup Coffee culture Coffee categories Coffee and health Coffee recipes Coffee articles Coffee reviews Coffee humor Coffee news Coffee glossary Coffee links Coffee home - Coffee articles - Coffees and Caffeine Coffees and Caffeine Coffee is one of the most popular beverages in the world. And Americans just can't think of life without a cup of rich and full-bodied delicious coffee! Coffee contains caffeine that contributes greatly to the stimulating and rejuvenating effect of coffee. Chemically, caffeine is an alkaloid belonging to the class of organic compounds called methylxanthines chiefly derived from plants. Coffees and Caffeine act as potent stimulants. Caffeine contained in coffee particularly stimulates the central nervous system (brain), skeletal muscles of the heart and the respiratory systems as well as delays fatigue. So that is why you feel so refreshed and revitalized after sipping into your cup of Joe! Coffees and Caffeine variations boosts up your senses imparting a soothing effect to your frayed nerves at any point of time! The amount of caffeine actually varies according to the coffee beans and coffee blends. An Espresso is a concentrated form of coffee so you can expect a higher caffeine content in an espresso that's all the more punching and refreshing! Caffeine has a characteristically strong and bitter taste. This bitterness adds the punch to coffee that gives you a high and helps you feel so relaxed! However, as too much of everything is bad for health so also loads of coffees and caffeine can have serious negative impacts on your overall health. So you need to restrict your caffeine intake to healthy limits. Caffeinated coffee acts as an anti-depressant and helps to elevate your mood, especially when you are low and mentally disturbed! Caffeine present in coffee along with other anti-depressant agents acts as a mood retriever by interacting with the brain chemicals such as acetylcholine and dopamine. You can surely trust coffees and caffeine to help you overcome depression to a certain extent. Extensive research is going on to analyze how caffeine can fight depression and even reduce the rate of suicide (especially in women) in different coffee-consuming populations of the world. As mentioned before that caffeine has stimulatory effects on the respiratory system. Studies have shown that coffee and caffeine positively and effectively helps to alleviate asthma conditions. A few cups of caffeinated coffee helps to clear out blocked air-passages spontaneously. This is particularly helpful in emergency situations when the patient has run out of inhalers and is unable to breathe! The caffeine in coffee is known to enhance the body's metabolic rate. So men and women who want to shed those extra pounds must include coffee as an essential part of your weight-loss diet. Thus coffee and caffeine will definitely help you look slimmer and more beautiful! Research has also shown that caffeine in coffee also cuts the risk of developing Type2 Diabetes in both men and women significantly. Research studies among men and women have revealed the protective function of coffee and caffeine with respect to development of Parkinson's disease also. A dreaded form of dementia in the elderly population is Alzheimer's disease. Coffee and caffeine intake on a daily basis has shown to delay the onset of Alzheimer's disease or depress its rate of progression. Caffeine also has strong anti-oxidant properties making it capable of fighting the harmful free radicals that are formed in the body. Coffee and caffeine also have debilitating effects if you overindulge in them. So if you consume more than 150mg/kg of caffeine then you can expect to face serious health problems. Caffeine overdoses can lead to varied acute and chronic symptoms such as anorexia, tremors/seizures, restlessness, nervousness, insomnia, etc. It is advised that people who are vulnerable to cardiovascular diseases and heart problems should avoid coffees and caffeine altogether. Pregnant women should try and avoid coffee as research reveals that the caffeine contained in coffee increases the risks of miscarriage and fetal defects. Coffee home - Coffee articles - Coffees and Caffeine Copyright © www