
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 21:51:37 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture for teachers What is acupuncture? What can acupuncture treat? Do you have any testimonials? What is holistic healing? What happens in a consultation? Where do you practise? What are your qualifications? How much does acupuncture cost? How can I book an appointment? Acupuncture links What is a healthy diet Acupuncture for teachers Stop smoking using acupuncture Pulse Reading Treatment of headache Stroke treatment Acupuncture
 	      for teachers As a teacher, you will probably tend to
 	      suffer from particular health problems that are due to the demands of your profession.
 	      These will tend to be problems related to your lungs. From the Chinese Medicine point of
 	      view, what is happening here and how can acupuncture help you? Typical health problems When you are talking for many hours of
 	      each day, and doing this at a raised volume, this will tend to deplete your ‘Lung
 	      energy’ (a Chinese Medicine concept). Over time, once your Lung energy has become
 	      depleted to a certain level, you will probably develop some of the following
 	      symptoms: chronic cough frequent colds and flu low immunity to infections in general sinus problems frequent loss of voice; hoarse voice dry mouth and throat shortness of breath on exertion feel the cold more than other people asthma; wheezing weak voice and lack of desire to talk spontaneous daytime sweats generally feeling weak and tired energy lag at about 3pm each day (in Chinese Medicine, we recognise that each of the
 	      organs is at a peak and a trough at different times of the day. With the Lungs, they are
 	      at their weakest between 3-5pm. This is why, when your Lung energy is depleted, you will
 	      tend to feel tired at about 3pm.) Further, when your Lung energy is low, this will tend to
 	      lead to other energetic problems as you draw on your body’s other resources to
 	      compensate. This may involve you developing problems related to your Kidney, Spleen, or
 	      Liver energy. The symptoms involved here would be wide-ranging and would vary from person
 	      to person. They might include digestive problems, headache or migraine, more serious
 	      asthma, palpitations, anxiety, insomnia, fluctuating emotions, depression, and so on. The good news is that Traditional Chinese acupuncture can
 	      treat all these problems. Addressing these problems
 	      using acupuncture Acupuncture is a complete healthcare system that has
 	      stood the test of time. It works by redirecting your body’s own ‘energy’,
 	      which is a natural healing method that is extremely safe and does not have any of the
 	      side-effects that are associated with drug treatments. This ‘energy’ (known as
 	      ‘Qi’—pronounced ‘chee’), flows throughout your entire body,
 	      travelling through a network of channels which flow up and down your arms and legs and
 	      through your abdomen where they connect with all your major organs. Acupuncture stimulates
 	      the energy in these channels in order to change the way that your major organs function,
 	      and by doing this the treatments aim to remove the underlying causes of your health
 	      problem, which then allows your symptoms to clear from your body naturally. This approach
 	      is known as holistic healing. After your acupuncture
 	      treatment Once the treatments have restored your Lung energy,
 	      and corrected any other problems, you should be clear of any of the symptoms mentioned
 	      above. And as a bonus, people who receive acupuncture treatment usually also say that they
 	      feel better within themselves and have more vitality and enthusiasm for life. Alternative treatment options In contrast to this, systems like Western medicine
 	      drug treatments merely aim to suppress the symptoms of your illness—regarding the
 	      symptom as being the problem and looking no further than that. This approach can sometimes
 	      provide a short-term quick fix, but the problem is that it leaves the underlying causes
 	      intact, and in the long run often causes patients to become gradually more and more ill,
 	      the longer they continue to use such treatments. For more detailed information about acupuncture, please see What is acupuncture . [ Home page ] 
[ What is acupuncture? ]  
[ What can acupuncture treat? ]  
[ What is holistic healing? ]  
[ What happens in an acupuncture consultation? ]  
[ Where do you practise acupuncture? ]  
[ What are your acupuncture qualifications? ] 
[ How much does acupuncture cost? ]  
[ How can I book an acupuncture appointment? ]  
[ Acupuncture links ]  
[ What
                                is a healthy diet? ]  
[ Acupuncture for teachers ]  
[ Stop smoking using acupuncture ]  
[ Site listings: lemon, CuriousPages, Wap.CuriousPages, ] © Copyright Curepoint, acupuncture in Bristol 2005-10. The entire content of this Web site is
      protected by international copyright law. No part of this Web site may be copied in any
      form whatsoever without the prior written express permission of the copyright owner. Applications for permissions should be made to Curepoint, acupuncture in Bristol, 