
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 17:11:07 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » EIGHT SYMPTOMS OF STRESS: HEADACHES Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s EIGHT SYMPTOMS OF STRESS: HEADACHES March 21st, 2008 Symptoms of stress may include headaches, pain, fatigue, sleep disorders, mood swings, allergies, sinus conditions, and reproductive disorders. Stress-related headaches, or tension headaches, are very common, affecting as much as 40 percent of the population. Triggers such as stress, anxiety, repetitive activity, eye strain, overexertion, PMS, missed meals, and certain foods can all contribute to tension headache onset. A comprehensive treatment plan including relaxation, exercise and other lifestyle changes and acupuncture therapy can be very effective in significantly reducing the frequency and intensity of stress-related headaches. Many of the medications used to prevent or treat tension headaches can produce side effects. A treatment method that does not include medications, such as acupuncture treatment, can result in successful pain management and decreased headache frequency. In addition to acupuncture therapy, good health habits can reduce stress and headache occurrence. Stress-related headaches can be prevented by a healthy diet, exercising regularly and adequate sleep. An acupuncture physician diagnoses headaches as due to energetic imbalances and can successfully treat many types of headaches, such as tension, cluster, migraine, and sinus. Your acupuncture physician may also recommend lifestyle/dietary changes and Chinese herbal remedies. The National Institutes of Health recommends acupuncture as a treatment for headaches. Acupuncture alleviates stress by releasing natural pain-killing chemicals, called endorphins. Acupuncture also improves blood circulation, oxygenates tissues, decreases heart rate and blood pressure, and relaxes muscles, which can decrease tension headache occurrence. In comparison to conventional therapies and medications that may lead to rebound headaches, acupuncture is a safe and non-invasive therapy. Stress-related headaches can often be severe enough to interfere with daily activities. When headaches occur more than a few times a month, acupuncture therapy is recommended. Acupuncture can reduce the intensity and frequency of headaches as well as analgesic consumption, and is frequently effective in cases where patients experience little pain relief from medication. For more information about acupuncture for tension headaches call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician and Homeopath, at (305) 595-9500. Other | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr