<http://www.naturesneem.co.uk/?p=75>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Magnesium Chloride | Neem and Neem Oil Products Neem and Neem oil Neem Articles Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Medical Disclaimer Contact Us Neem and Neem Oil Products Pure Neem Oil Products Neem Oil Products Neem Beauty Products Neem Pet Products Neem Horse Products Neem Oral Products Books Magnesium Chloride August 5, 2011 By Neem Tweet Magnesium Chloride the Facts TRANSDERMAL MAGNESIUM THERAPY THE GREAT RELAXER IS CRITICAL FOR NERVE, MUSCLES AND FUNCTION OF OVER 350 ENZYMES We have magnesium chloride in two forms in stock, the popular magnesium chloride ready made spray and magnesium chloride bath salts as seen in the picture below direst from source so rest assured how good and pure our magnesium chloride products are Magnesium is “The Relaxer” & Softener Mineral and Off-sets the Hardening Effects of Calcium. Calcium cannot be used by the body without sufficient Magnesium. Estimates are that 2 / 3 of Americans are deficient and thousands are severely deficient producing everything from chronic infections to bad attitudes and behaviour issues to schizophrenia. It is required by the muscles and nerves of the body to stay functional and healthy and even minute amounts of it can cause serious effects. DIFFICULTY OF GETTING ADEQUATE TISSUE LEVELS IV magnesium chloride is used in medicine all the time and clinicians who are using it in Integrated Medicine know how hard it is to raise levels enough to change deficiency symptoms…it’s almost impossible. There no tests that reflect tissue levels available. Magnesium needs to be measured at the cellular level and there are no tests for tissue Magnesium currently. Serum levels are very low and are not a reflection of tissue levels. Medicine still has no protocols which include magnesium deficiency. Buy Magnesium Chloride and Magnesium Oil Spray Orally, magnesium loads in the intestines and produces diarrhoea before tissues & nerves can be effected. Magnesium is best absorbed into body in Transdermal form(skin), not orally. Natural Neem 40 Magnesium Chloride is the best bio available form of Magnesium over cheaper chemical forms like Magnesium Sulphate (Epson Salt®) The sulphur portion of Epson Salts is very drying to the skin over time. BRINE SEAS ARE THE RICHEST FULL MATRIX SOURCE Magnesium Chloride has the highest natural concentration in Brine Seas (below sea level) such as the Dead Sea in Israel or the Great Salt Lakes in Utah and some underwater volcanoes off the coast of Italy. Most of the Magnesium Chloride from the Great Salt Lake is being converted to a hexahydrate state for use as a de-icer spray. MAGNESIUM DEFICIENCY SIGNS: Indigestion / Heartburn / Over production of stomach acid Bowel Stasis / Constipation Muscle Cramps (legs, back, chest, etc.) Hyperactive Nervous System Tremors in head, hands, voice Calcium deposits in tissues (cardiovascular, joints, muscles, etc.) Irritabile Disposition / Tempers / Drastic Mood Swings Severe Forgetfulness Dental Demineralization Osteoporosis / Bone Loss Overheated blood / hot feet at night Cigarette Smoke Sensitivity Aches & Headaches Stiff Hard Muscles / Spasms Neuralgic Pain in Legs at Night (“Restless Leg Syndrome”) Restless Sleeping / Insomnia Neuralgia / Neuritis in feet and legs Irrational Fears / Sense of Doom / “Anxiety” Attacks, etc. Out – of – Control Behaviors (ADD/ADHD??) Over acid pH produces overgrowth of many bacteria, fungi, etc. Poor Immune function Severe chronic deficiencies can cause brain neurological short-circuits resulting in sympoms of schizophrenic tendicies, neuroses, manic depression, visions, trances, detached “spaced out”, etc. NEGATIVE EMOTIONS DESTROY MAGNESIUM RESERVES IN NERVES & TISSUE 350 body enzymes require magnesium as a co-factor to function properly There are several companies in the marketplace which are selling Magnesium Chloride from “Ocean” sources and other forms such as Magnesium Oil for internal use. INTERNAL MAGNESIUM IS NOT WHAT WE’RE AFTER SINCE IT IS NOT AVAILABLE TO BODY TISSUES. Also, unless the product has been sterilized, it is not approved for internal ingestion since in its raw natural state, Magnesium Chloride Salts contain impurities from the earth such as heavy metals and potential contaminants from birds and other creatures in the area. Buy Magnesium Chloride and Magnesium Oil Spray Magnesium Chloride Soaking Instructions: Bathtub: Add 400 Gms to small amount of hot bath water to dissolve. Add cooler water to adjust temp. prior to getting in. Foot Soaks: We recommend use of a good foot spa with direct heat control built in to maintain temp. Add 400 gms 1:1 ratio dissolved well into hot water or make a stronger ratio for faster results. Add cooler water to adjust temp. SOAK FEET AT LEAST 30 min. 2 TIMES PER WEEK MIN. WHOLEBODY SOAK IS VERY SOOTHING BUT NOT NECESSARY FOR REPLENISHMENT SINCE MAGNESIUM IS PICKED UP BY THE FEET AND CARRIED TO THE ENTIRE BODY. Magnesium Oil ( Magnesium Chloride ) Magnesium Oil is the layman’s term for a concentrated and nearly saturated solution of magnesium chloride in water. I was introduced to this magical solution by a dear friend of mine. It has helped me to reduce a considerable amount of my overall stiffness in a couple of days of using it. Each morning I wake up feeling more and more flexible and less sore and stiff. It has definitely helped me in improving my flexibility and has improved the quality of my daily exercise which I also do to treat my stiff muscles and also for my overall fitness. I am still working on increasing the magnesium level in my body to its normal level as I write this. How lacking in Magnesium can affect our health and cause stiff muscles Deficiency of magnesium in the body can result in a host of health problems, including stiff muscles to name one. We use our muscles by selectively contracting them. When it contracts calcium ions flow into the muscle cells. Calcium has to be pumped out again when the muscles wish to relax, and this is the function of Magnesium. Magnesium acts as a natural Calcium blocker where it prevents Calcium from being overly absorbed into our cells. However as we age we tend to have more and more calcium build up in our muscles as a result from the lack of Magnesium in our body, thus causing it more or less to permanently stay contracted, leading to increased muscle tension and spasms. In short, when the level of calcium in our body is higher than magnesium, calcification takes place in the joints, which brings about the common rigidity and inflexibility as we age. Most forms of magnesium taken orally are not wholly absorbed as it has to compete with other things in our digestive system. So taking magnesium orally isn’t the best way to quickly increase the level of magnesium in our body. It generally takes a year for a person who takes magnesium orally before he can get his magnesium to its plasma level without having to experience the discomfort of a stomach upset. That is why it is recommended that the best way of administering magnesium into our system is by applying it transdermally. This way we can get more magnesium into our system while bypassing our digestive system. With regular transdermal application, within months we can restore the magnesium level in our body and start feeling relaxed and pain free. Transdermal Application – The Best Method to Cure Stiff Muscles I personally apply magnesium oil on myself by doing a foot soak daily after I do my work out. By doing so, it covers any sort of stiffness and soreness I might have after each work out and it also relaxes me all over. The foot soak would last for 20 – 30 minutes each session. At the beginning when my stiffness was very severe, I did the foot soak twice a day – once in the morning after my workout and once at night before I go to bed. I’d pour 2 medium pots of tap water into a bucket and 1 pot of boiled water – it is best to make the foot soak as warm as your feet can take it. And I’ll mix 100-200ml of the magnesium oil into the foot soak. The water has to be ankle high in order to make it an effective foot soak. You can re-use this water for another 2 more sessions if the water looks clean. Doing a foot soak might not be everyone’s choice simply because most of us just can’t see themselves sitting still for 20-30minutes soaking their feet when their lifestyle demands them to always be on the go. And for most of us, we find that it uses up our Magnesium Chloride supply too quickly! So the next option (and so far, I find this the most effective and cost-effective too) is to spray the Magnesium Chloride onto your body and rub it into the skin. Make it your daily routine after your daily bath, to spray Magnesium Chloride and rub it all over your body. This daily remineralisation practice will increase the Magnesium level in your body in no time and you will start feeling a difference in your body within a week. I would also spray it on to the problematic areas on my lower back, neck and shoulders and anywhere else that aches throughout the day and rub it into the skin. A 31% concentrated Magnesium Chloride does give almost an instant relief to the stiff muscles when you apply it onto the problem areas. By coupling our daily oral intake and rubbing it all over our body on a daily basis, it would accelerate the amount of Magnesium absorbed into our system and simultaneously relax our stiff muscles and prevent us from being so easily stressed. You will find yourself less achy, creaky in the joints and a more cheerful and energetic person in no time. Caution Reduce usage is recommended (under the supervision of a doctor) for those suffering from low blood pressure and severe adrenal weakness. It is not recommended for people with severe kidney problems and with myasthenia gravis. All The Best You have nothing to lose in trying this magnesium oil. It’s natural and effective and brings you a host of other health benefits as well – a cure to stiff muscles is just one of at least 50 other health benefits it brings about! Good luck! Magnesium is nothing short of a miracle mineral in its healing effect on a wide range of diseases, as well as in its ability to rejuvenate the aging body. We know that it is essential for many enzyme reactions (especially in regard to cellular energy production), for the health of the brain and nervous system, and also for healthy teeth and bones. However, many are not aware that – in the form of magnesium chloride – it is also an impressive infection fighter. The first prominent researcher to investigate and promote the antibiotic effects of magnesium was a French surgeon, Prof. Pierre Delbet. In 1915 he was looking for a safe solution to cleanse wounds of soldiers, because he had found that traditionally used antiseptics actually damaged tissues and encouraged infections instead of preventing them. In all of his tests, magnesium chloride solution proved by far the best answer. Not only was it harmless for tissues, but it also greatly increased leucocyte activity and phagocytosis (the destruction of microbes). After World War I, Prof. Delbet performed experiments with internal applications of magnesium chloride, and found it to be a powerful immune stimulant. In his experiments, phagocytosis increased by up to 333%. This means that, after applying magnesium chloride, the same number of white blood cells destroyed up to three times more microbes than beforehand. Over the years, Prof. Delbet found magnesium chloride to be beneficial in a wide range of diseases. These included diseases of the digestive tract such as colitis and gall bladder problems, Parkinson’s disease, tremors and muscle cramps; acne, eczema, psoriasis, warts and itching skin; impotence, prostatic hypertrophy, cerebral and circulatory problems; asthma, hay fever, urticaria and anaphylactic reactions. Hair and nails became stronger and healthier, and patients also had more energy. Prof. Delbet also found an excellent preventative effect on cancer, and he cured precancerous conditions such as leukoplasia, hyperkeratosis and chronic mastitis. (Epidemiological studies have since confirmed that regions with magnesium-rich soil have a lower cancer rate than those deficient in magnesium.) Another French doctor, A. Neveu, cured several diphtheria patients with magnesium chloride in just two days. He also published 15 cases of poliomyelitis that were cured within days if treatment was started immediately, or within months if paralysis had already progressed. Neveu also found magnesium chloride effective with asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia and emphysema; pharyngitis, tonsillitis, hoarseness, common cold, influenza, whooping cough, measles, rubella, mumps, scarlet fever; poisoning, gastroenteritis, boils, abscesses, infected wounds and osteomyelitis. In more recent years Dr Raul Vergini and others have confirmed these earlier results and have added more diseases to the list of successful uses: acute asthma attacks, shock, tetanus, herpes zoster, acute and chronic conjunctivitis, optic neuritis, rheumatic diseases, many allergic diseases, chronic fatigue syndrome and cancer. In all of these cases magnesium chloride gave much better results than other magnesium compounds. Buy Magnesium Chloride and Magnesium Oil Spray Magnesium for Nerves Magnesium has a calming effect on the nervous system, and is frequently used to promote good sleep. But, more importantly, it can be used to calm irritated and over-excited people. This is especially useful with epileptic seizures, convulsions in pregnant women and the `shakes’ in alcoholism. Magnesium levels are generally low in alcoholics, contributing or causing many of their health problems. If magnesium levels are low, the nerves lose control over muscle activity, respiration and mental processes. Nervous fatigue, tics and twitches, tremors, irritability, hypersensitivity, muscle spasms, restlessness, anxiety, confusion, disorientation and irregular heartbeat all respond to increased magnesium levels. A common phenomenon of magnesium deficiency is a sharp muscle reaction to an unexpected loud noise. `Memory pills’ have been marketed that consist mainly of magnesium. Many of the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease can be overcome with high magnesium supplementation. Shaking can be prevented and rigidity eased. Pregnant women often develop convulsions, nausea, dizziness and headaches. In hospitals this is treated with magnesium infusions. Because of its strong relaxing effect, magnesium helps not only to have a better sleep but is also useful in overcoming headaches and migraines. Even the number of suicides are linked to magnesium deficiency. The lower the magnesium content in soil and water in a given region, the higher the rate of suicides. Epilepsy is marked by abnormally low magnesium levels in the blood, spinal fluid and brain, causing hyperexcitability in regions of the brain. There are many reported cases of epilepsy greatly improving or disappearing with magnesium supplementation. In a trial with 30 epileptics. 450 mg of magnesium supplied daily successfully controlled seizures. Another study found that the lower the magnesium blood levels, the more severe the epilepsy. Magnesium often works best in combination with vitamin B6 and zinc. In sufficient concentrations, magnesium inhibits convulsions by limiting or slowing the spread of the electric discharge from an isolated group of brain cells to the rest of the brain. Animal studies show that even the initial burst of firing nerve cells that starts an epileptic attack can be suppressed with magnesium. Magnesium for the Heart Adequate levels of magnesium are essential for the heart muscle. Those who die from heart attacks have very low magnesium, but high calcium levels in their heart muscles. Patients with coronary heart disease who have been treated with large amounts of magnesium survived better than those with drug treatment. Magnesium dilates the arteries of the heart and lowers cholesterol and fat levels. High calcium levels, on the other hand, constrict the heart arteries and increase the risk of heart attacks. Calcium deposits in the walls of the arteries contribute to the development of arteriosclerosis. The arteries become hard and rigid, thereby restricting the blood flow and causing high blood pressure. In addition, such inelastic blood vessels may easily rupture and cause strokes. Countries with the highest calcium to magnesium ratios (high calcium and low magnesium levels) in soil and water have the highest incidence of cardiovascular disease. At the top of the list is Australia. Worldwide the intake of magnesium has been lowered and that of calcium increased because of the heavy use of fertilisers high in calcium and low in magnesium. With this, the intake of magnesium from our food has steadily decreased in the last fifty years, while the use of calcium-rich fertilisers and cardiovascular disease have greatly increased at the same time. Diabetics are prone to atherosclerosis, fatty degeneration of the liver and heart disease. Diabetics have low magnesium tissue levels. They often develop eye problems such as retinopathy. Diabetics with the lowest magnesium levels had the most severe retinopathy. The lower the magnesium content of their water, the higher is the death rate of diabetics from cardiovascular disease. In an American study the death rate due to diabetes was four times higher in areas with low magnesium water levels. Magnesium for Healthy Bones and Teeth Medical authorities claim that the widespread incidence of osteoporosis and tooth decay in western countries can be prevented with a high calcium intake. However, published evidence reveals that the opposite is true. Asian and African populations with a very low intake (300mg of calcium) daily have very little osteoporosis. Bantu women with an intake of 200 to 300 mg of calcium daily have the lowest incidence of osteoporosis in the world. In western countries, due to a high intake of dairy products, the average calcium intake is about 1000 mg. The higher the calcium intake, especially in the form of cows’ milk products (except butter) the higher the incidence of osteoporosis. Calcium, magnesium and phosphorus levels are kept in a seesaw balance by the parathyroid hormones. If calcium goes up, magnesium goes down and vice versa. With a low magnesium intake, calcium goes out of the bones to increase tissue levels, while a high magnesium intake causes calcium to go out of the tissues into the bones. A high phosphorus intake without a high calcium or magnesium intake causes calcium to leach from the bones and leave the body with the urine. A high phosphorus intake with high calcium and magnesium leads to bone mineralisation. Dr Lewis Barnett, an orthopaedic surgeon, practised in two different U.S. counties with very different soil and water mineral levels. In Dallas County, with a high calcium and low magnesium concentration, osteoporosis and hip fractures were very common, while in Hereford County, with high magnesium and low calcium these were nearly absent. In Dallas County the magnesium content of bones was 0.5% while in Hereford it was 1.76% In another comparison the magnesium content in bones of osteoporosis sufferers was 0.62% while in healthy individuals it was 1.26%. The same applies for healthy teeth. In a New Zealand study it was found that caries-resistant teeth had on average twice the amount of magnesium as caries-prone teeth. The average concentration of magnesium phosphate in bones is about 1%, in teeth about 1.5%, in elephant tusks 2% and, in the teeth of carnivorous animals designed to crush bones, it is 5%. In regard to the strength of bones and teeth, think of calcium as chalk and of magnesium as superglue. The magnesium superglue binds and transforms the chalk into superior bones and teeth. Cancer and Aging Many studies have shown an increased cancer rate in regions with low magnesium levels in soil and drinking water. In Egypt the cancer rate was only about 10% of that in Europe and America. Among the rural fellahin it was almost nonexistent. The main difference was an extremely high magnesium intake of 2.5g per day in these cancer-free populations, ten times more than in most western countries. Dr A Seeger and Dr Johanna Budwig in Germany have shown that cancer is mainly the result of a faulty energy metabolism in the powerhouses of the cells, the mitochondria. A similar decline in energy production takes place when we age. The great majority of enzymes involved in the production of energy require magnesium. A healthy cell has high magnesium and low calcium levels. Up to 30% of the energy of cells is used to pump calcium out of the cells. The higher the calcium level and the lower the magnesium level in the extra-cellular fluid, the harder it is for cells to pump the calcium out. The result is that with low magnesium levels the mitochondria gradually calcify and energy production decreases. We may say that our biochemical age is determined by the ratio of magnesium to calcium within our cells. Tests with chronic fatigue syndrome showed that magnesium supplementation resulted in better energy levels. We use our muscles by selectively contracting them. On the biochemical level, muscle contraction is triggered by calcium ions flowing into muscle cells. To relax the muscle calcium is pumped out again. However, as we age, more and more calcium remains trapped in the muscles and these become more or less permanently contracted, leading to increasing muscle tension and spasms. Together with calcification of the joints, this is the typical rigidity and inflexibility of old age. The higher our intake of calcium relative to magnesium, the faster do we calcify and age. Most of the excess calcium in our diet ends up in our soft tissues and around joints leading to calcification with arthritic deformations, arteriosclerosis, cataracts, kidney stones and senility. Dr Hans Selye proved experimentally that biochemical stress can lead to the pathological calcification of almost any organ. The more stress, the more calcification, the more rapid the aging. Buy Magnesium Chloride and Magnesium Oil Spray The Rejuvenation Mineral In addition to its anti-microbial and immune-stimulating properties, both magnesium as well as chloride have other important functions in keeping us young and healthy. Chloride, of course, is required to produce a large quantity of gastric acid each day and is also needed to stimulate starch-digesting enzymes. Magnesium is the mineral of rejuvenation, and prevents the calcification of our organs and tissues that is characteristic of the old-age related degeneration of our body. Using other forms of magnesium is less advantageous, because these have to be converted into chlorides in the body anyway. If we take magnesium as oxide or carbonate, we then need to produce additional hydrochloric acid to absorb the magnesium. Many aging individuals, especially those with chronic diseases who desperately need more magnesium, cannot produce sufficient hydrochloric acid and then cannot absorb the oxide or carbonate. Epsom salt is magnesium sulphate. It is soluble but not well-absorbed, and acts mainly as a laxative. Chelated magnesium is well absorbed but much more expensive, and lacks the beneficial contribution of the chloride ions. Orotates are good, but very expensive for the amount of magnesium that they provide, and both orotates and chelates seem to lack the infection-fighting potential of magnesium chloride. Calcium and magnesium are opposites in their effects on our body structure. As a general rule, the softer our body structure the more we need calcium, while the more rigid and inflexible it is, the less calcium and the more magnesium we need. Magnesium can reverse the age-related degenerative calcification of our body structure and with this help us to rejuvenate. Young women, children and most of all babies have soft body structures and smooth skin with low calcium and high magnesium levels in their cells and soft tissues. This is the biochemistry of youth. As we age we become more and more inflexible. The arteries harden to cause arteriosclerosis, the skeletal system calcifies to cause rigidity with fusion of the spine and joints, kidneys and other organs and glands increasingly calcify and harden with stone formation, calcification in the eyes causes cataracts, and even the skin hardens, becoming tough and wrinkled. In this way calcium is in the same league as oxygen and free radicals, while magnesium works together with hydrogen and the antioxidants to keep our body structure soft A gynaecologist reported that one of the first organs to calcify are the ovaries, leading to pre-menstrual tension. When he put his patients on a high magnesium intake their PMT vanished and they felt and looked much younger. Most of these women said that they lost weight, increased their energy, felt less depressed and enjoyed sex much more than before. For men it is equally beneficial for problems arising from an enlarged prostate gland. Symptoms commonly disappear after a period of supplementation with magnesium chloride. Increased magnesium intake has also been shown to be an effective way to prevent or dissolve kidney stones and gall bladder stones. Digestive enzymes and increased bile production help restore a healthy intestinal normalise our digestive processes, reducing any digestive discomfort, bloating and offensive stool odours. This is consistent with a reduction of all offensive body odours, including underarm and foot odour. Prof. Delbet gave magnesium chloride solution routinely to his patients with infections, and for several days before any planned surgery and was surprised by many of these patients experiencing euphoria and bursts of energy. Magnesium chloride also has a specific action on the tetanus virus and its effects on the body. It even seems to be protective against snakebites. Guinea pigs did not die after normally lethal injections of snake venom and a rabbit survived a poisonous snakebite when given magnesium chloride solution. In addition to being the most essential mineral in our cellular energy production, magnesium is also needed for the ingested B-vitamins to become metabolically active. Magnesium is also essential for the synthesis of nucleic acids, for cell division to occur, for DNA and RNA synthesis of our genetic material and for protein as well as fatty acid synthesis. Unfortunately magnesium deficiency at a cellular level where it counts is not easy to diagnose, as serum magnesium levels do not correlate to muscle or cellular magnesium levels. Instead of trying difficult tissue magnesium analysis to find out if your health problems may be due to low magnesium levels, it is much easier and more effective just to take more magnesium and see what happens. Rejuvenation by ingesting more magnesium is a slow process, especially as the amount of magnesium that we can take is limited by its laxative effect and the need to keep it in a reasonable balance with calcium and phosphorus intake. The other problem is that spastic muscles have poor blood and lymph circulation, which makes it difficult for the ingested magnesium to dissolve and flush out the tissue and joint calcifications. Therefore, we can greatly speed up the rejuvenation process by increasing the circulation through contracted muscles with deep tissue massage, hot and cold water applications, relaxation exercises, lymphasising and packs and rubs with magnesium chloride. How much? Magnesium chloride contains about 120 mg of magnesium per gram or 600 mg per rounded teaspoon. It has a mild laxative effect. As a good maintenance intake to remain healthy you may take a teaspoon daily in divided doses with meals. With raised blood pressure and symptoms of magnesium deficiency you may temporarily increase this to 2 teaspoons daily in divided doses. This may already cause `loose stools’ in some but that is generally beneficial. Individuals with very sensitive taste buds may start using it in tiny amounts mixed with strongly flavoured food and increase doses very gradually. Alternatively, drink it in one gulp dissolved in water while pinching your nose and quickly drink something pleasant afterwards.With acute infections dissolve 40g or 8 slightly rounded teaspoons in 1 litre of water. With children commonly a small glassful or 125 mL has been used every 6 hours. Adults may double this dose by drinking this amount every 3 hours or even more until diarrhoea develops and then cut back to a maintenance intake just below the level of diarrhoea until the infection has cleared. For daily use it may be more convenient as well to dissolve the magnesium chloride in water. (What some call “Magnesium Oil” is simply magnesium chloride dissolved in water.) For quickest results with insensitive skin use a friction massage: rub hard enough so that the skin becomes hot and red. After doing this for several days a rash may develop over the area and the skin becomes very sensitive. When this happens moisten the skin only lightly with a much diluted magnesium chloride solution. Repeat the rubbing if necessary after the skin has healed. For muscle relaxation in massage, magnesium chloride may be added to coconut oil. Magnesium supplementation should be avoided with severe kidney problems (severe renal insufficiency), and also with myasthenia gravis. Be careful with severe adrenal weakness or with very low blood pressure. Magnesium Profile Magnesium is mainly found inside the cells. It activates many enzymes and is necessary for the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and amino acids. It is essential for the functions of muscles and nerves and for the formation of bones and teeth. It regulates the influence of calcium. Deficiency Symptoms and Increased Requirements: CIRCULATION: angina, arteriosclerosis/atherosclerosis, high blood pressure and cholesterol, heart infarcts, hypertension, strokes, tachycardia (fast pulse), thrombosis. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM: colic, constipation, chronic diarrhoea, malabsorption, pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas). MUSCLES: backache, convulsions, cramps, increased excitability/jumpiness, numbness, nystagmus (rapid eye movements), spasms, tense/tight muscles, tingling, tremors. NERVOUS SYSTEM: apathy, confusion, depression, disorientation, epilepsy, hallucinations, irritability, mental illness, multiple sclerosis, nervousness, neuritis paranoia, Parkinson’s Disease, poor memory, senility. GENERAL: alcoholism, arthritis, body odours, broken bones, calcification in any organ, cancer, chronic fatigue syndrome, diabetes, headaches, infections and inflammations, liver cirrhosis, lupus erythematosus, migraines, old age, prostate problems, rickets, mental and physical rigidity, wrinkled skin, stiffness, gall or kidney stones, overactive thyroid. The Master Magnesium Compound Magnesium Chloride is recognized by many medical professionals as the “Master Magnesium Compound” for both dietary and topical uses, due to its high potency and efficient action. Magnesium is undeniably therapeutic to the human body, yet much is left unsaid about the type and quality of various forms of magnesium. Not all types of magnesium deliver the same recognizable benefits. Like other minerals of nutritional value, magnesium occurs as various inorganic and organic forms in nature. Each of these forms has varying degrees of efficiency in human biochemistry. In supplement form, magnesium oxide, the most common form of magnesium sold in pharmacies and grocery stores, has been shown to have as low as a 4% absorption rate. Other forms of magnesium, especially the naturally occurring magnesium chloride, have been demonstrated to achieve much greater bioavailability. Choosing a highly soluble form of magnesium brings both high potency and superior benefits toward health. For fast-acting therapeutic use, magnesium chloride is especially recommended. One particularly safe and natural form is now available in a pure, unadulterated magnesium oil or as magnesium bath salts, both extracted from a pristine ancient sea bed and tested free of contaminants. Magnesium Chloride Benefits Digestion As to the success of magnesium chloride for health via oral supplementation, the benefits are admirable. Many researchers advocate magnesium chloride as the most effective form of dietary supplementation, in part due to the vital role that chloride has in the production of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Magnesium plays a vital role in the production of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Some people simply do not produce enough hydrochloric acid (HCl), which can result in a number of health issues related to metabolism and nutrient absorption. These deficiencies can be due to various disorders that affect the stomach, or simply due to individual differences or reasons unknown. As we age, production of HCl in the stomach declines, often dramatically, and is nearly always left undiagnosed. Magnesium chloride’s use as a magnesium supplement has the added benefit of helping to reduce many potential problems that could arise from steadily declining secretions of gastric acid in the stomach. These can include: Mal-absorption of vitamins and minerals A failure in proper digestion An increased susceptibility to unwanted bacteria, viruses, and yeasts passing through the gut These advantages come from the extra chloride found in magnesium chloride, enough to increase production of gastric acid, thereby enhancing absorption and assimilation of magnesium itself, and improving overall digestive efficiency — creating an ideal environment for the assimilation of critical micronutrients important to health, especially as we age. Efficacy of Magnesium Chloride Oil Preparations Magnesium chloride potency and efficacy is particularly achieved when applied topically to the skin in a form known as “magnesium chloride oil”. Positive reports from medical professionals and consumers regarding the health benefits achieved from using topical magnesium chloride highlight its convenience and its effectiveness in addressing a variety of symptoms including those related to the skin, muscles and nervous system. A small study conducted by Dr. Norman Shealy, M.D., founder of the American Holistic Medical Association, provides documented research on the effect of topical magnesium chloride on blood chemistry. Dr. Shealy compared intracellular magnesium levels of participants before and after a period of daily application of topical magnesium, via magnesium baths and spray application of magnesium chloride oil. With 75% of participants showing marked improvement, Dr. Shealy concluded that the unique properties of supersaturated magnesium chloride allow it to be absorbed effectively into the skin, raising intracellular magnesium levels in the majority of individuals. Magnesium Potency and Assimilation A commonly asked question among professionals and consumers is exactly what percentage of Ancient Minerals magnesium chloride oil, gel, lotion or flakes is absorbed by the skin? And, how effectively are topical preparations of magnesium chloride absorbed in comparison to oral use? Fick’s Law of Diffusion states that the amount of any solute absorbed (e.g. magnesium chloride oil) is directly dependent upon: The concentration of the solution The length of time the solute is in contact with the membrane (e.g. the skin) Additional variables, including application sites on the body, temperature of the solution, etc. While these points do provide insight into the conditions which would favor effective uptake of magnesium by the skin, a definitive answer as to precisely how many milligrams are absorbed is of course unattainable in vivo. Exact values are similarly unattainable when oral dosages are called into question. Far too many intrinsic factors exist to influence exactly how much and how fast magnesium is assimilated and subsequently sent into circulation, whether via the oral or topical route. However, the clear-cut efficiency of the skin for mineral uptake coupled with the broad benefits of magnesium chloride in topical applications certainly provides a well-laid foundation for rapid results to the user. What is measurable are the effects on blood chemistry as demonstrated in Dr. Shealy’s study, along with immediate improvements in one’s health from restoration of magnesium deficient cells. What those who have experience with topical magnesium therapy generally acknowledge: Magnesium chloride arguably delivers more usable magnesium to cells than any other form, especially when the skin is used as a primary path of entrance. Shortfalls in Oral Magnesium Supplements It’s important to note that oral magnesium presents unique challenges for many individuals. For many, these challenges become barriers to restoring intracellular magnesium levels effectively. Magnesium oxide, common in popular dietary supplements, could have a fractional absorption in the gut as small as 4 percent. Firstly, realistic absorption rates from oral magnesium supplements are rarely taken into account when dosage recommendations are given. Usage of poorly ionized forms of magnesium can therefore result in ineffective supplementation. A study in 2001 indicated that magnesium oxide, an inexpensive magnesium complex included in many popular dietary supplements, could have a fractional absorption in the gut as small as 4 percent. If one was to ingest the commonly recommended (albeit modest) adult dosage of 300-400 mg magnesium per day in this poorly absorbed form, it could equate to a usable dosage of only 12-16 mg. Secondly, and perhaps more important, is the fact that nearly all magnesium supplements share a common tendency to create a laxative effect in the bowels. The effect of different magnesium compounds on bowel motility and stool softness is further amplified with the quantity ingested in a single dose. The higher any single dosage, the greater the potential to cause diarrhea, thereby reducing transit time through the bowels. This is of key importance, and as Dr. Shealy indicates in his book Holy Water, Sacred Oil: The Fountain of Youth , there is reliable evidence to indicate that absorption relies heavily on magnesium’s staying power in the intestine–at minimum 12 hours. If transit time is reduced to less than 12 hours, the percentage of magnesium absorbed may be drastically impaired. When these points of consideration are taken in conjunction with the unpredictability of each individual’s efficiency to absorb magnesium through oral means, the results become unreliable in many cases. In contrast, bypassing the digestive system with topical use of magnesium oil, — or other Transdermal therapies including magnesium baths or foot soaks — circumvents the many common drawbacks that can accompany oral supplementation. Uses and Benefits of Magnesium Chloride A quick search of Pub Med yields thousands of scientific studies highlighting the benefits of various magnesium compounds in human biochemistry. From migraines and pain management to depression, anxiety, sleeplessness and memory, magnesium has clearly demonstrated enormous versatility as a healing mineral. However, magnesium chloride has expressed unique characteristics beyond the scope of other inorganic magnesium salts that are of special interest. As discovered in 1915 by French surgeon Pierre Delbet, M.D.: The application of a magnesium chloride solution to external wounds had favourable effects over leucocytic activity and phagocytosis, making it ideal for wound cleansing. Oral magnesium chloride was a powerful immuno-stimulant, exhibiting a broad tonic effect on the host. Thirty years later, another French doctor, A. Neveu, M.D., used magnesium chloride orally for a broad spectrum of disorders benefiting from the immune bolstering effects that magnesium chloride offered. Buy Magnesium Chloride and Magnesium Oil Spray Dr. Jose Perez Albela Beraun, M.D., director of the Instituto Bien de Salud in Lima, Peru, is a zealous supporter of magnesium, where magnesium chloride is the form used almost exclusively in his work. Dr. Albela spreads the word of magnesium chloride and health through his various radio shows, public lectures, and colleagues, and in fact manufactures and distributes single dose packets of magnesium chloride, often giving them away to the needy. Success stories from the patients of Dr. Albela could fill an entire book. Magnesium oil, liquid magnesium, and magnesium spray — all names which refer to a concentrated solution of magnesium chloride applied to the skin — are the new darlings of many holistic health professionals. Dr. Carolyn Dean, M.D., N.D., describes the unique benefits of topical magnesium chloride oil: A very exciting addition to the magnesium family is a product loosely referred to as magnesium oil. It’s not actually an oil at all, but a super saturated solution of magnesium chloride. Magnesium oil can be sprayed or rubbed on the body, and is readily absorbed through the skin. It helps to greatly increase the amount of magnesium in body tissues and overcomes the problems that some people have with loose stools when they try to take enough magnesium to meet their needs. This can be especially important in cases of severe magnesium deficiency that were only treatable with IV magnesium before magnesium oil came along.” The fast-acting ability of topical magnesium chloride to deliver magnesium beyond that possible with oral forms makes it ideal for restoring optimal health. Magnesium medicine saves patients from a considerable amount of pain and suffering and is a subject worth mastering if one is a doctor or alternative healthcare professional. Magnesium is essential for life and is a true cellular tonic that helps us heal from the inside out addressing as it does a broad range of fundamental physiological processes. Magnesium chloride is and excellent medicine that is fast acting and safe. Magnesium and Cancer One would not normally think that Magnesium (Mg) deficiency can paradoxically increase the risk of, or protect against cancer yet we will find that just as severe dehydration or asphyxiation can cause death magnesium deficiency can directly lead to cancer. When you consider that over 300 enzymes and ion transport require magnesium and that its role in fatty acid and phospholipids acid metabolism affects permeability and stability of membranes, we can see that magnesium deficiency would lead to physiological decline in cells setting the stage for cancer. Aleksandrowicz et al in Poland conclude that inadequacy of Mg and antioxidants are important risk factors in predisposing to leukemias. Other researchers found that 46% of the patients admitted to an ICU in a tertiary cancer center presented hypomagnesemia. They concluded that the incidence of hypomagnesemia in critically ill cancer patients is high. Magnesium and Surgery When magnesium levels are corrected by the administration of magnesium before, during and after surgery medical complications are significantly reduced to the point where it becomes simply imprudent to perform surgery without it. Dr. Minato at the Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, in Japan, strongly recommends the correction of hypomagnesemia during and after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) for the prevention of perioperative coronary artery spasm and his team has actually said that they won’t perform this surgery without its use any longer. Everyone scheduled for surgery needs to increase their stores of magnesium. In the pre and postoperative phases magnesium can help alleviate pain, decrease blood pressure, alleviate certain heart arrhythmias; it works to prevent blood clotting, relieves depression so common after bypass surgery, and improves energy and cognitive abilities. Magnesium – Diabetic Medicine Magnesium chloride also offers a great advance in diabetic care that changes the lives of those with metabolic syndrome, hypoglycemia, and type I and II diabetes. My e-Book New Paradigms in Diabetic Care invites endocrinologists, family practitioners, and diabetics to put magnesium into all aspects of their diabetic protocols. Research has proven that proper levels of magnesium lowers insulin resistance, lowers blood sugar, and aids in the prevention and treatment of complication of neuropathy and retinopathy. It enhances blood flow through damaged vessels, and prevents or delays the onset of type II diabetes. Low serum and intracellular magnesium concentrations are associated with insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, and decreased insulin secretion. Magnesium improves insulin sensitivity thus lowering insulin resistance. Magnesium and insulin need each other. Without magnesium, our pancreas won’t secrete enough insulin–or the insulin it secretes won’t be efficient enough–to control our blood sugar. Magnesium – the Ultimate Heart Medicine Magnesium is nutritional oil to the heart; it lubricates and facilitates its function. Due to lack of magnesium the heart muscle can develop a spasm or cramp and stops beating. Most people, including doctors, don’t know it, but without sufficient magnesium we will die. It is important to understand that our life span will be seriously reduced if we run without sufficient magnesium in our cells and one of the main ways our lives are cut short is through cardiac arrest (heart attack). Yet when someone dies of a heart attack doctors never say “He died from Magnesium Deficiency.” Administration of magnesium, in the correct way, can eliminate angina pain, muscle spasms, keep blood flowing smoothly and prevent platelet stickiness. Magnesium also produces vasodilation by a direct action as well indirectly by sympathetic blockade and inhibition of catecholamine release. Magnesium dilates both the epicardial and resistance coronary arteries. Magnesium also balances cholesterol and is essential for endocrine stability and function. Most importantly – magnesium prevents calcification of the heart tissues. Magnesium in Neurological Diseases and Emotions The Department of Family Medicine, Pomeranian Medical Academy, states that dietetic factors can play a significant role in the origin of ADHD and that magnesium deficiency can result in disruptive behaviors. Even a mild deficiency of magnesium can cause increased sensitivity to noise, nervousness, irritability, mental depression, confusion, twitching, trembling, apprehension, and insomnia. All of these signs and symptoms lead to heart ache and heart break. Magnesium offers a powerful way to treat depression and helps us deal with stress. Calcification and Magnesium If calcium is not taken with magnesium it will cause much more harm than good. Unabsorbed calcium can lodge anywhere in our body. For instances, if it lodges in your bones and joints, it mimics arthritis; if it lodges in you heart, it mimics arterial lesions. Calcification or calcium poisoning can manifest as heart disease, cancer, wrinkled skin, kidney stones, osteoporosis, dental problems, bone spurs, cataracts and many other health problems. Calcium deposits in the joints are called arthritis; in the blood vessels it is hardening of the arteries; in the heart it is heart disease, and in the brain it is senility. A healthy cell has high magnesium and low calcium levels. There is little doubt that that many people have lost touch with nature, having been born into our modern “civilized” world. There is also little doubt that this fact has greatly impacted the health of generations of both city dwellers and impoverished communities around the world. One the best examples of this problem can be illustrated by examining the incredible magnesium deficiency that exists. This widespread problem is underdiagnosed, difficult to correct with diet, and potentially related to an incredible number of illnesses. It has been estimated that 68% of the population is magnesium deficient, or will become magnesium deficient (based on a U.S. government study on dietary habits). “Mg deficiency is widespread, but under-detected because of therole of Mg, not only in the plasma, but intracellularly,” said Dr. Dierck-Hartmut Liebscher, MD, in his paper “ Dierck-Hartmut Liebscher, MD ” et al, published in the We have magnesium chloride in two forms in stock, the popular magnesium chloride ready made spray and magnesium chloride bath salts as seen in the picture below direst from source so rest assured how good and pure our magnesium chloride products are Buy Magnesium Chloride and Magnesium Oil Spray Tweet Related Posts: No Neem Related Posts Filed Under: Neem Articles Were on Facebook Latest Neem Articles Thera-Neem Herbal Mouthwash – 473ml Thera-Neem Toothpaste – 120g Austin Rose Inc Doggie Sudz, Lavender & Neem 16 Oz A.Vogel, Neem cream – 50g Stable Cleaner (250ml) Recomended Book Tags (75g) 100ml 200ml 236ml 250ml 360ml Animal Austin Azadiracta bottle Cold Cream Doggie Dogs face Flea gingivitis Herbal Horse Indica. Itch Lavender Mouthwash neem Neem: neem cream neem mouthwash neem oil neem skincare neem tootpaste oral health Organix Pressed. Pure Relief Rose Shampoo Skin South Sudz, Thera-Neem Tick Toothpaste Tropiclean Vogel Return to top of page Copyright © 2012 ·