Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lower Back Extension Exercises - Prevent and Relieve Back Pain Special Offers Better4Fitness Exercise Nutrition & Fat Loss Injury Equipment Website Info Resources [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Lower Back Extension Eliminate Back Pain Lower back extension exercises strengthen your core muscles. These videos and instructions will help you eliminate back pain. Need Motivation? You want to exercise but lack that motivation to keep at it? Maybe you're looking for inspiration to start exercising? Click Here to Get Motivated Your lower back is an often forgotten part of your core . It's just as important to strengthen your lower back muscles as it is to strengthen your abdominals . Most lower back pain is caused by an imbalance between your abs and lower back muscles. Weak and/or tight lower back muscles are an injury waiting to happen. We use these muscles in almost everything that we do! The lower back extension is a really good exercise to strengthen those muscles. It also provides a stretch to relieve the tightness in the muscles. You get a double benefit from this really simple exercise. You can see more specific lower back stretches by clicking here . Please see your health professional if you're worried about any injuries or pain, before doing any exercise. We'll focus on how to do this exercise with the best technique possible. To avoid injury always start off slow and progress from there. Lower Back Extension Exercise Start by doing 10 reps. You can include this in your circuit workouts, but make sure you don't rush it, always keep the quality in the exercise. Lie front down on an exercise mat, with your arms down by your sides. Brace your core (abs, back and hips) and squeeze your legs together for added stability. Start with your head down, eyes pointed at the mat. Using your lower back muscles, slowly lift your chest up as far as you can comfortably go. Hold it for a count of 2. Then slowly return to the starting position. Complete your reps and sets with slow, steady movements. Tips: Keep breathing steadily. Exhale going up, inhale coming down. Keep your core muscles braced throughout. Make sure you don't use your neck to lift your head. Your eyes should be pointing towards the mat throughout, not straight ahead. This will ensure your neck doesn't take any of the tension, your lower back should be doing the work. Keep your shoulders down throughout. Don't let them shrug up during the exercise. You may only be able to move very little at first, that's totally fine! As you progress, you'll be able to lift your chest higher. Want more back exercise workouts to relieve back pain? Click here . Lower Back Extension Videos Enjoy these lower back exercises! Check out the following quality videos for more exercise variations: Want to lose that stubborn belly fat? Click here for 5 important tips Fitness Wonderland Free Newsletter Limited time offer Next 50 subscribers get 4 e-books FREE: Hurry, subscribe below! Your E-mail Address Your First Name Then Privacy Policy: your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you Fitness Wonderland. Return to Back Exercises from Lower Back Extension. Return to Exercise Fitness Home from Lower Back Extension. New! Comments Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below. © 2007-2011 Better-Exercise-Fitness-For-Life.com. All rights reserved. Click Here To Claim Your FREE Online Personal Training Consultation SBI! Try the HotZone Workout for FREE and Burn More Belly Fat! Limited to the next 50 lucky people Simply Enter: Your E-mail Address Your First Name Then Privacy Policy -- your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you Fitness Wonderland. 12 Weeks To a New You Click