<http://www.willitsdentist.com/?p=345>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Dental Sealants - Dr. Henry Rued - Willits, CA Dentist 707-459-6103 Henry Rued, DDS Home About Us Meet Us Our Services Cosmetic Dentistry Restorative Dentistry Endodontic Dentistry Periodontal Dentistry Dental Technology Dental Specialties Referrals Blog Contact Us Preventative Dentistry Dental Sealants to Block Out Decay! Preventative Dentistry | 03. Apr, 2012 by Dr. Henry Rued | 0 Comments A simple, preventative procedure that can save you the trouble of future cavities. It’s the dreaded news that nobody wants to hear after a routine dental cleaning, you have some cavities that will need to be filled.  And who could blame us for feeling a bit apprehensive?  The dental drill has always carried negative associations, and furthermore, the presence of cavities means your teeth are not getting the protection they need. One simple, preventative procedure that can save you the trouble of future cavities is the use of a dental sealant.  A dental sealant is nothing more than a thin plastic resin that is painted onto the chewing surface of your teeth (usually only on molars and premolars).  These are the areas which are most prone to developing cavities since the deep grooves tend to trap food particles.  Once the sealant has been applied, the surface is a much smoother, making your regular brushing more effective. The procedure is performed by first thoroughly cleaning each tooth to be treated.  Then, to aid the bonding process, the teeth are dried and the sealant is applied.  The sealant itself is then dried and you’re done, just like that! Dental sealants are highly recommended for children who have just gotten their permanent molars in order to quickly prevent any possible decay from forming.  Children typically get their first permanent molars around age six, with the rest coming in around 12. Although sealants have long been a standard treatment for children, adults can also benefit from the extra protection it provides, so don’t hesitate to contact us for getting sealants for yourself as well!  Sealants can last from 5-10 years, and your dentist will look for any needed reapplications during regular checkups. Tags: cavities , dental sealants , preventative dentistry No comments yet. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Name (required) Email (will not be published) (required) Mail (will not be published)  (Required) Website Website Search Search for: Request an Appointment What is 10+10? If you want to submit this form, do not enter anything in this field Categories Articles Preventative Dentistry Links & Resources American Dental Association CEREC Online Deploy Dental Deploy Marketing Redwood Empire Dental Society Society for Computerized Dentistry Willits Chamber of Commerce Willits Wikipedia Page Willits Blog Follow this blog Home About Us Meet Us Our Services Blog Contact Us Social Media