
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 13:15:12 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://advanced-vitamin-formulas.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Anti Aging Supplements » How Can Anti Aging Vitamins and Supplements Benefit Your Health? Antioxidant Vitamins Support Your Health with Anti Aging Herbs supplements No Responses » Mar 07 2012 With the prevalence of high stress levels and food which is highly processed which has lower nutritional value, there is ample research backed evidence that anti aging herbs and nutritional supplements can be helpful in increasing your overall state of health as well as your resistance to illness and disease. The issue of what are the are the best vitamins for strengthening the immune system and reducing the effects of aging is one that is a continuing subject of research. Nutrients and herbs like MSM (Methylsulfonylmethane, Policosanol, Indian Echinacea, Olive Leaf Extract, Bilberry Extract and many more are now being commonly added to multivitamin supplements. Many new nutrients and herbs like the ones previously mentioned have been discovered (or rediscovered) that are significantly boosting the ability of supplements to help strengthen the immune system naturally. The basic vitamins like B complex, natural vitamin E and vitamins A and C are still important, but with the addition of additional powerful antioxidant nutrients, protection against colds and flu, as well as more serious degenerative diseases may be greatly enhanced. If you want to avoid going through a cycle of experiencing the flu and several colds every year, a high quality vitamin containing anti aging herbs as well as nutrients for the immune system can help to provide extra “insurance.” The goal of optimum health will be easier to reach by combining a generally healthy lifestyle and stress reduction with any nutritional supplementation. Moderate exercise can help to reduce stress and is beneficial to your immune system, heart, muscles, circulation and joints. A consistently healthy and balanced diet can help provide many essential vitamins, minerals, essential enzymes, amino acids and anti aging herbs is also essential and will help to keep your body healthy and enhance your overall health. Posted by admin at 6:56 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Herbs , Anti Aging Supplements , Anti Aging vitamins Benefits of Anti Aging Herbs Add comments Research about anti aging herbs is discovering and validating through clinical research some of the legends which have been passed down through the ages. From the legendary Spanish explorer Ponce de Leon to the fictional Captain Jack Sparrow in 2007′s “Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End,” the allure of a Fountain of Youth continues to mesmerize. It appears that de Leon never found Florida’s purported anti-aging formula, and we don’t yet know whether or not Sparrow will find the elixir. What we do know is that, today, the anti aging research has progressed in leaps and bounds. Indeed, we know a great deal about how each of our physiological systems functions, and the factors that cause each of them to derail and accelerate the aging process. Free Radicals Take free radical damage, for example. Free radical damage happens when the body’s cells lose electrons. Just as an old car eventually rusts out, a person’s body ages as it sustains free radical damage. Some people theorize that aging itself is a result of free radical damage, while others theorize that conditions associated with aging arise as a result of free radical damage and together contribute to the aging process. Reversing the Effects of Aging The question then becomes, how can we reverse the effects of free radicals? Chemically speaking, it’s a matter of ingesting anti aging herbs and antioxidants. An antioxidant formula can stop free radicals in their tracks, both by preventing the loss of cells’ electrons and by adding or “donating” electrons back into cells. It’s like giving your car an undercoating to prevent rust. Other Signs of Aging But what about the other signs of aging? Well, some of them are visible – like the loss of elasticity in the skin, wrinkles, and graying hair – and some of them are invisible – like memory loss, vision deterioration, and hormone imbalances. The right combination of vitamins, enzymes, amino acids, herbs, and minerals can help counteract the aging process. Such anti-aging products not only can stop aging, but also can actually reverse the process. Anti Aging Herbs and Supplements Although there are a variety of types of antioxidants products in the marketplace, if you’re interested in reversing the aging process, you should consider an anti-aging natural supplement which contain a full range of herbs and nutrients which have been proven by research to be effective. As opposed to creams, supplements work from the inside out to repair cells and to regenerate healthy new cells. A good anti-aging formula may afford you with a variety of benefits, including improving sleep, increasing energy, initiating fatty acid metabolism, improving memory and mental alertness, increasing circulation, improving skin texture, boosting the immune system, promoting hormonal balance, supporting good vision, and improving joint health. Beyond that, it can help to facilitate the repair of RNA and DNA. Some nutrients and anti aging herbs that are used in “leading edge” supplements that not only help strengthen the immune system, but also have anti-aging characteristics include: * MSM (Methylsulfonylmethane * Policosanol * Indian Echinacea * Olive Leaf Extract * Diindolylmethane (DIM) * Bilberry Extract * Beta 1-3 Glucan * Turmeric * Zeaxanthin Being longtime consumers and researchers of nutritional supplements, we at advanced-vitamin-formulas.com recommend the supplements produced by Xtend Life Natural Products of New Zealand. We feel that their multivitamin formula, Total Balance is one of the highest quality nutraceutical supplements we’ve found throughout our years of research. Total Balance contains not only the previously mentioned powerhouse nutrients, but also includes a full range of vitamins, minerals, amino acids and herbal extracts. In fact it contains over 75 different nutrients. By spending less than $50 a month you can boost your overall health and immunity as well as saving considerable money over taking individual nutrients and vitamins. When shopping for supplements that have an antioxidant formula, be sure to select a company that stands behind their product with research evidence which backs any claims that are made, that is in compliance with good manufacturing practices (GMP), and that doesn’t make unrealistic claims or promise overnight results. After all, the aging process takes time, and so does the reversal process. Finally, make sure that you choose an all-natural anti-aging formula that includes anti aging herbs and antioxidants. Posted by admin at 6:48 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Herbs , Anti Aging Supplements , antioxidants Multi-Vitamin Supplements Offer Advantages For All Ages supplements No Responses » Feb 01 2012 The diet an individual takes on a day to day basis often fluctuates based not on dietary needs, but on their daily work schedule. While the convenience food solutions of modern times may provide an individual a quick method to fulfill meal requirements, they typically do not represent your greatest resource. Dietary requirements are an important factor for every person and undernourishment is steadily on the rise, even with all the opportunities which exists for a person. When diet is not high on your priority list, look to multi-vitamin supplements to help meet your daily health needs and decrease the risks related to undernourishment. The impact of those supplements play a very important role for an individual, regardless of their age, and finding the right answer that best fits your needs is ideal. For adults, the solutions of these products are usually restricted to the opportunity of a low dose or high dose solution. When you’re looking into a low dose solution, you’ll find this with most of the products currently on the market. These products help to supply nearly 100 % of your every day vitamin and mineral demands but do require a healthy diet in addition. High dose solutions provide a greater amount of vitamins and minerals, exceeding the daily demand when your dietary decisions are extremely poor. When it comes to children, the dietary decisions they make, typically reflect the dietary decisions of the mother or father, developing a dangerous health situation. The usage of multi-vitamin supplements for kids is particularly designed to offer an individual with the required vitamins and minerals they need. Undernourishment will be devastating in the development of a kid, thus the usage of supplements could facilitate in supplying them with the building blocks they require to grow healthy and strong. Make no mistake that these solutions don’t substitute the nutritional quality of a healthy diet but will help to support your child on the days which your schedule will not permit this opportunity. Another age group which can notice high benefit from the usage of a multi-vitamin supplement is found with the elderly. When the wilds of youth begin to subside and the hectic schedules of adulthood begin to balance, most elderly individuals find themselves adopting several of the positive dietary habits that have been preached to them for years. When you can benefit from the utilization of supplements like the multi-vitamin, you will notice many benefits to assist you in retirement. Most solutions designed for the elderly help with many common ailments such as bone degeneration, joint pain and also memory loss. This will prove an invaluable tool as you look to stay active in your golden years. Vitamins and minerals are essential for people of all ages, serving a vital role in health. For your best resource of multi- vitamin supplement solutions visit http://www.solgar.co.uk Article kindly provided by UberArticles.com Posted by admin at 1:29 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , antioxidant supplements , multi vitamins A Few of The Health Benefits of Alfalfa supplements No Responses » Sep 26 2011 The Health Benefits of Alfalfa for health issues such as diabetes, arthritis, digestive problems and even cancer have been well-known for centuries. Alfalfa has far-reaching health benefits due to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activity which supports health at the cellular level. Alfalfa is a very potent herbal anti inflammatory agent. It helps to inhibit inflammation and lowers the risk of inflammatory disorders like asthma, autoimmune diseases, hypersensitivity, arthritis, and inflammatory bowel diseases. A few of the many health benefits of Alfalfa: decrease serum cholesterol balance blood sugar levels support healing of peptic ulcers, gastritis, and colitis natural support in kidney, bladder, and prostate problems anti-cancer agent boosting your immune system essential enzymes – aids digestion increase bone density and support bone formation protect against DNA damage and premature aging A regular dose of alfalfa benefits your health, nourishes your vital organs, and helps you stay active and healthy for a long time. So, it is advisable to make it a part of your everyday diet. The best way to do so is to start taking an herbal supplement that contains alfalfa. For even more details, see the full article on the Health Benefits of Alfalfa . Posted by admin at 6:03 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , antioxidant supplements , Health Benefits of Alfalfa Amazing Ginkgo Biloba Benefits supplements 1 Response » Sep 25 2011 If you have an interest in protecting and improving your health, then you may have heard of ginkgo biloba benefits. The herb Ginkgo biloba has been in use for thousands of years in Eastern countries like China, India and Japan. Recently, it has begun to be used in the West more and more as research continues to reveal its powerful benefits for many different health issues. Ginkgo biloba is a powerful herbal anti inflammatory agent. It supports increased blood flow to the brain which can be helpful for a whole range of issues such as; Memory concentration fatigue depression anxiety confusion Ginkgo biloba often benefits people with tinnitus and vertigo. It can potentially benefit any illness in which blood circulation is involved such as Reynaud’s disease. Since it is an anti-inflammatory compound as well as being a powerful antioxidant, Ginkgo biloba can have positive benefits for overall health and is regularly found as an ingredient in some high quality antiaging supplements. In nutritional supplements, the Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) set by the FDA is a guideline of the minimum amounts needed of a nutrient to stay healthy, but in numerous cases consuming more may be right for you. You may want to consult your health care provider before taking larger quantities but in many cases, additional quantities may be needed to meet your personal requirements. Some medications and medical conditions can impact the body’s ability to absorb and utilize vitamins and minerals and your doctor, nutritionist or other health care provider can advise you what amounts are best for you. Ginkgo biloba is not considered to be an essential nutrient, so a Recommended Daily Allowance has not been set by the FDA. The ideal situation would be to consult a naturopathic physician or an herbalist to determine the best daily amount of Ginkgo biloba for your situation. Alternatively, some high quality supplements will contain a safe and effective amount of the herb for most people. For even more details, read the full article on Ginkgo Biloba benefits . Posted by admin at 4:49 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Ginkgo Biloba Benefits , herbal Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Add comments Ginkgo biloba benefits are well known to a large number of people in the world. It is used by the people of China, Japan, India, and Korea both as a food item as well as a natural remedy. In this article, we take a look at the diseases and disorders that can benefit from this wonder plant and the different ways in which it may benefit your health. 1. Ginkgo biloba is a powerful herbal anti inflammatory agent . It can help reduce the pain and inflammation associated with inflammatory disorders. A regular dose of the herb can also inhibit chronic inflammation and lower the risk of various inflammation related health problems. 2. It supports increased blood flow to the brain and treats and helps to prevent absentmindedness, poor concentration, fatigue, depression, anxiety, confusion, and other such problems caused by cerebral insufficiency. It contains terpenoids, a group of vasodilators that dilate the blood vessels, reduce platelet friction, and increase blood flow to the brain and various other organs. 3. It may improve the condition of people suffering from dementia, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, and various other brain related problems that involve the loss of memory and senility. 4. Ginkgo biloba often benefits people with tinnitus , cochlear deafness, and other hearing disorders by increasing blood flow to the ears. 5. It is used for symptoms of vertigo (dizziness), which is caused by poor blood flow to the ears. 6. It is also used for symptoms of altitude sickness, also known as acute mountain sickness. 7. Ginkgo biloba may be helpful for Reynaud’s disease , which is caused by poor blood flow to the fingers and toes. Its beneficial effect may be increasing microcirculation. 8. It is a powerful herbal anti inflammatory agent. It is a rich source of plant based antioxidants known as flavonoids. These flavonoids can help to reduce inflammation, protect your body from free radical damage, and prevent premature aging. 9. It provides support for male impotency by increasing blood flow to the male genital organ, which results in stronger, longer lasting erections. 10. It may help with peripheral vascular insufficiency, arrhythmias, depression, anxiety, PMS, intermittent claudication, vitiligo, and a number of other ailments. A regular dose of ginkgo biloba may help to lower the risk of all the ailments mentioned above and has a positive effect on your overall health . You can find a number of herbal anti inflammatory and anti aging supplements that contain ginkgo extract. You can get one of these supplements and start taking them regularly. It’s important to make sure the product you choose contains at least 50 mg of ginkgo per serving. We are strong advocates of putting in your “due diligence” when choosing nutritional supplements . It’s important to find a company you feel you can trust and one which discloses important information about the ingredients and manufacturing of their supplements. Research is showing that high quality supplements with the right ingredients may have a significant beneficial effect on your health. A company that produces high quality supplements which meet all of the requirements above is Xtend-Life Natural Products . Their multivitamin supplement, Total Balance , is the most complete nutritional supplement we’ve found so far. For example, not only does it contain ginkgo biloba, it also contains other important nutrients for brain health, healthy metabolism and heart health (and overall health) like lutein, alpha lipoic acid, L-carnosine, N-acetyl cysteine and coenzyme Q10. Plus much more - * Enzymes – amylase, lipase and more * Herbs like green tea and ginkgo biloba * Vitamin D * Minerals like magnesium, selenium, calcium, zinc and potassium * Trace elements * Carotenoids * Amino acids * over 75 different nutrients Rather than spending hundreds of dollars a month on various supplements and taking handfuls of pills every day, another option is to take a high quality multi vitamin like Xtend-Life’s Total Balance . One of the amazing properties of ginkgo is that its medicinal properties enhance considerably when combined with certain herbs. So, the most effective way to enjoy ginkgo biloba benefits is to take a supplement that contains the extracts of ginkgo, milk thistle, bilberry, alfalfa, green tea, black cumin, turmeric, and other such powerful natural substances. Posted by admin at 6:15 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Ginkgo Biloba Benefits , Herbal Anti Inflammatory Brain Vitamins Add comments Brain Nutrition for Cognitive Health – SAMe There are many brain vitamins on the market today. Research has shown that nutritional supplementation is beneficial for conditions ranging from simple depression to Alzheimer’s disease. Here we look specifically at how S-Adenosyl methionine or SAMe benefits our brains. S-Adenosyl methionine, also known as SAM-e of just SAM, is involved in reactions that occur throughout the body. It is produced in the liver through a complicated process involving ATP, various enzymes and the amino acid methionine. Apparently the complicated process does not always work optimally. When a nutrient or compound is produced by the body, it is not normally necessary to consume it. Scientists usually refer to the nutrients as non-essential. SAM is not something that is present in foods. There is no recommended daily allowance for the nutrient, but scientists have found that many people have lower than normal levels of the compound in their blood and the brain’s fluids. In fact, very low levels of SAM have been found in the brains of all Alzheimer’s patients tested. The hope is that brain supplements may help prevent Alzheimer’s and the mental deterioration that accompanies it. How Does SAMe Benefit the Brain? Research indicates that SAMe benefits people suffering from Alzheimer’s and it may help prevent the disease. Preliminary research has shown that it helps to prevent oxidative damage, what is often referred to as free radical damage. Free radical damage to the neurons and neurotransmitters is believed to be the cause of age-related memory loss and mental decline. In Europe, S-Adenosyl methionine is a prescription drug used to treat depression, liver disease and arthritis. In the US, it is a dietary supplement. No prescription is required to purchase it. The main problem with the supplement is that it must be well designed, because it is unstable and not well-absorbed. In order to get the SAMe benefits, you will need a supplement with an enteric coating to protect it from stomach acid. If it is exposed to stomach acid, it will be broken down into the individual components instead of being absorbed through the intestinal wall. Once through the intestinal wall, it can enter the bloodstream and eventually find its way to the blood-brain barrier. It must be able to pass through the barrier in order to be beneficial. Passing the blood-brain barrier is a problem for most brain supplements. The better manufacturers use special techniques to ensure their customers get the most benefit from the nutrients. If you are interested in the SAMe benefits, you can take a single-ingredient supplement or a multi-nutritional supplement. The multi-nutritional option is the best choice for many reasons. You may not really need specialty brain supplements if you take a good multi-nutritional one on a daily basis. Brain Vitamins Featured Product After many years of reseaching and using nutritional supplements, we believe the supplements made by New Zealand based Xtend Life natural products to be some of the highest quality products on the market. Their multivitamin formula, Total Balance contains many brain boosting nutrients confirmed by research, such as SAMe, Bacopa extract, ginkgo biloba, green tea and many more – over 75 powerful vitamins, herbs and nutrients which work together to support optimal health and specifically brain health. Wishing You Good Health – The Editors advanced-vitamin-formulas.com Posted by admin at 8:17 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Anti Aging vitamins , Brain Supplements , brain vitamins , SAMe benefits Coenzyme Q10 Benefits and Side Effects Add comments Learn More About a Health-Enhancing Antioxidant Anyone could benefit from coenzyme q10. It is particularly helpful as we age. The antioxidant is found in practically all living cells. In the human body, it plays an important role in the biological process used to generate energy. The highest concentration of the nutrient is found in organs with the highest energy demands. Those organs are the heart, liver and kidneys. Benefits for Natural Heart Health and Lowering Cholesterol Supplementation is recommended for natural heart health, because once we pass the age of 20, the concentration found in the hearts cells and tissues starts to decline. This is believed to be one of the causes of age-related diseases affecting the hearts function. Coq10 and Statins By potentially depleting the amount of coenzyme Q10, cholesterol statin medications tend to make your body vulnerable to free radical damage which may be harmful in the long run. Low levels of antioxidants in your body could cause oxidative stress which could cause several very serious health problems in the long run. Some of the well known effects of oxidative stress include aging skin, rheumatoid arthritis, atherosclerosis, chronic fatigue syndrome, and neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. Since a lot of people are unaware of this fact, they continue to take statin drugs without knowing the consequences. While anyone may benefit, people who take cholesterol-lowering statin drugs should consider taking a supplement every day. When statins block the production of cholesterol, they also block the production of coenzyme Q10. The muscle pain and other side effects that may accompany statins are due to the lack of the essential antioxidant. Since the body can produce the compound, there is some disagreement among health experts about whether or not a healthy person should take a CoQ10 supplement. There is no disagreement about the benefits for specific health problems. So, we’ll look at those first. In addition to being recommended for natural heart health, they are being used in cases of chronic heart failure (CHF) and to improve survival after cardiac arrest. Recent studies have shown that low blood levels of coenzyme Q10 is present in cases of CHF and can be used to predict the outcome of the condition. Metabolism and Migraine Benefits Mitochondrial and metabolic disorders can prevent the body from producing enough of the antioxidant. The only treatment for those conditions is supplementation. Supplementation is beneficial for migraine headaches. The antioxidant is currently being investigated in several studies as a treatment for cancer and for the relief of cancer-treatment side effects. For people with high blood pressure, a CoQ10 supplement can lower the systolic pressure by 17mm and the diastolic pressure by 10mm without causing any side effects. In cases of periodontal gum disease, the supplements can improve the health of gum tissues and even reverse the disease. The studies were originally conducted with diseased dogs, but have since been duplicated in humans. For Parkinson’s disease, the benefit is to slow the progression by as much as 44%, depending on the daily dosage. Trials concerning that benefit will be completed soon. Does a healthy person benefit? Researchers have begun to focus a great deal of their efforts on prevention. Why do some people remain healthy and free of disease while others suffer from all kinds of health problems? Why do some people live longer and look younger? The accumulated evidence indicates that good nutrition is the key. Coenzyme q10 Side Effects At this time, no significant coenzyme q10 side effects are being reported, however it is advised that those just starting this supplement may notice some mild side effects like stomach upset, gas, headaches, etc. These should subside fairly quickly once your body adjusts. Coenzyme q10 Dosage Co q10 dosage may vary considerably depending on your specific health condition. It can range from 50-150 mg for heart issues to 1220 mg for Parkinsons disease. Consult your health care provider about the optimal dosage for your condition. Choosing a CoQ10 Supplement A CoQ10 supplement does not provide everything your body needs to be healthy, but there are some good multi-nutritional supplements that contain it. If you’re like most people, you take a multi-vitamin every day anyway. Why not look for one that contains coenzyme Q10? We at advanced vitamin formulas recommend the multivitamin formula produced by Xtend Life natural products of New Zealand. Their multivitamin, Total Balance is manufactured to the highest standards within the supplement industry, and contains not only CoQ10, but over 75 other powerful vitamins and nutrients which work together to support optimal health. Tips for Choosing Nutritional Supplements Vitamins, minerals and other nutrients work best when they’re combined in a way that mimics nature as closely as possible. Look for nutritional supplements that have nutrients combined to make use of the natural synergy between them. Companies willing to present a full disclosure and outline of their ingredients have normally put more effort and research into their product. Try to Verify that the supplement was produced at a pharmaceutical GMP (good manufacturing practices) facility. Since compliance to GMP standards is voluntary it’s important to do your own research to verify that macro-biological testing is done at every stage of production. Studies by Consumerlab.com have shown that this issue shouldn’t be taken lightly, as their testing has found that some supplements don’t have the true amount of ingredients as stated on the label, or may harbor toxic contaminants. Professional grade supplements (sometimes called nutriceuticals) are made for use in the health care field by natural health care providers and consumers who want the best. In the past decade Professional grade supplements have become more available to the general public and this type of nutritional supplement will provide the health benefits that you’re looking for, often for a very reasonable price. Why not save money and get healthier – try Xtend-Life’s Total Balance multi nutrient Supplement. The benefits of each of the 76 different nutrients (which includes CoQ10) are defined in great detail at the Xtend life website. Posted by admin at 7:04 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Coenzyme q10 Benefits , coenzyme q10 dosage , Coenzyme q10 side effects , coq10 and statins , COQ10 Supplement Find Out More About Immune System Vitamins and Supplements supplements No Responses » Mar 13 2011 Nutrition for Immune System Support You probably have noticed that immune system supplements have changed a lot in the last 20 years or so. During this time, researchers have discovered much new information about how vitamins, minerals and other nutrients actually work. Also, during this time many new nutrients with powerful antioxidant and health promoting qualities have been discovered. These discoveries are very important elements in any attempts to slow the aging process and prevent illness. Today, we have to deal with extremely high levels of stress as well as consuming food that may have poor or at least greatly lower nutritional value. The issue of what are the are the best vitamins for strengthening the immune system is one that is a continuing subject of research. There is plenty of evidence that nutritional supplements can be helpful in increasing your overall state of health as well as your resistance to illness and disease. Nutritional supplements are going through an evolution process as a result of this research. A New Breed of Leading Edge Supplements New types of supplements are being designed which are sometimes referred to as “nutraceuticals”. This new generation of dietary supplements is very far from conventional supplements based on research dating back as far as the 1950s. They are generally much more powerful than what you would typically buy at your local super market or department store. Many new nutrients have been discovered (or rediscovered) that are significantly boosting the ability of supplements to help strengthen the immune system naturally. The basic vitamins like B complex, natural vitamin E and vitamins A and C are still important, but with the addition of additional powerful antioxidant nutrients, protection against colds and flu, as well as more serious degenerative diseases may be greatly enhanced. Some nutrients that are used in “leading edge” supplements that not only help strengthen the immune system, but also have anti-aging characteristics include: * Policosanol * Olive Leaf Extract * Bilberry Extract * Beta 1-3 Glucan * Turmeric * Zeaxanthin * Indian Echinacea * Diindolylmethane (DIM) If you normally go through colds and the flu at fairly predictable times of the year, immune system supplements which are nutraceutical quality and contain at least some of the nutrients previously mentioned may be able to boost your immunity to these illnesses. Being longtime consumers and researchers of nutritional supplements, we at advanced-vitamin-formulas.com recommend the supplements produced by Xtend Life Natural Products of New Zealand. We feel that their multivitamin formula, Total Balance is one of the highest quality nutraceutical supplements we’ve found throughout our years of research. Total Balance contains not only the previously mentioned powerhouse nutrients, but also includes a full range of vitamins, minerals, amino acids and herbal extracts. In fact it contains over 75 different nutrients. By spending less than $50 a month you can boost your overall health and immunity as well as saving considerable money over taking individual nutrients and vitamins. Posted by admin at 9:26 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Anti Aging vitamins , immune system supplements Nutrients to Look for in Brain Supplements and Vitamins supplements No Responses » Feb 17 2011 Unfortunately, many people believe a progressive decline in overall brain function is a unavoidable part of aging. This degenerative process causes us to lose our short-term memory and abstract reasoning ability. It also may make concentration or learning new information difficult. Many neurological diseases are also directly related to aging such as dementia, Alzheimer’s, and Parkinson’s. But, research is showing that there are things we can do to slow or stop this process. High quality brain supplements can be very helpful. - Vitamin B Supplements A healthy diet should provide you with all the vitamins that are needed by the body. But at times of stress and fatigue, the body gets depleted of Vitamin B. This deficiency prevents the functioning of acetylcholine. Vitamin B also helps carry oxygen to the brain and this does away with harmful free radicals. Some natural foods like liver, eggs, soybeans, lentils, and green beans are rich in Vitamin B. Vitamin B Supplements also help to boost the level of these vital vitamins in the body. -Omega 3s in Fish Oil -Vitamin E and Blueberry Extract -Gingko Biloba -Phosphatidylserine Phosphatidylserine (PS) is a phospholipid normally found in nearly every cell in your body. A phospholipid is a type of lipid. Lipids add to cell structure and are a source of fuel. In the brain PS operates in part as a communication facilitator between nerve cells. -SAMe – Find out more about SAMe on our article about brain vitamins . Posted by admin at 2:44 pm Tagged with: Anti Aging Supplements , Anti Aging vitamins , Brain Supplements , SAMe benefits Older Entries Menu Home – Anti Aging Supplements Antioxidant Supplements Vitamins for Memory Coenzyme Q10 Benefits and Side Effects Brain Vitamins Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Health Benefits of Alfalfa Bilberry Extract Benefits Benefits of Anti Aging Herbs vitamins supplements Terms of Use Contact Blog Recent Blog Posts What is Ginkgo Biloba Used For? Support Your Health with Anti Aging Herbs Multi-Vitamin Supplements Offer Advantages For All Ages A Few of The Health Benefits of Alfalfa Amazing Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Finding Health Solutions With The Right Combination Of Supplements Beyond Macronutrients and the Importance of Vitamin Supplements Find Out More About Immune System Vitamins and Supplements Nutrients to Look for in Brain Supplements and Vitamins Finding the Most Effective Eye Vitamins Have You Considered Taking Memory Supplements? Learn About the Health Protecting Advantages of Green Tea Supplements What are the Possible Benefits of a COQ10 Supplement? Discover the Powerful Benefits of Lutein for Eyes Alpha Lipoic Acid Benefits Tags Alpha Lipoic Acid Benefits Anti Aging Herbs Anti Aging Supplements Anti Aging vitamins antioxidants antioxidants in tea antioxidant supplements Bilberry Extract Benefits brain nutrition Brain Supplements brain vitamins Coenzyme q10 Benefits coenzyme q10 dosage Coenzyme q10 side effects coq10 and statins COQ10 Supplement Eye Vitamins Ginkgo Biloba Benefits Ginkgo biloba memory Green Tea Supplements Health Benefits of Alfalfa herbal Herbal Anti Inflammatory immune system supplements Lutein for Eyes Lycopene Benefits Memory Supplements multi vitamins natural heart health Profect Protica Research Resveratrol Benefits SAMe benefits supplement Vitamin and Mineral Deficiency Vitamins for Memory What is Ginkgo Biloba Used For? zeaxanthin with lutein © 2012 How Can Anti Aging Vitamins and Supplements Bene