<newscoverage.December 2007_Jan.9 2008> SEARCH Healthcare Services Research Foundation Join Us Doctors Entrance Find a doctor Request an appointment Coming to Children's All about us Multimedia Quick Links HOME > ALL ABOUT US > NEWS ROOM > PAST COVERAGE A recent study found that buckwheat honey  soothed children's coughs at night better than over-the-counter medicines. Find out what our doctors say in a KGO-TV report. News Room Current NEWS Coverage "Food allergies stir a mother to action " (New York Times © 1/9/08) Elizabeth Gleghorn, MD, of Gastroenterology was featured in the New York Times about food allergies and whether it is actually on the rise or not.  Dr. Gleghorn believes it is on the rise, but points out that sometimes a child has an intolerance to a type of food and may not have a true allergy. "Gene therapy gets injured mice moving again" (MSNBC © 1/9/08) James Policy, MD, of Orthopaedics was asked to comment on a New York study, which shows a combination of gene therapy and tissue grafts may help repair ruptured tendons.  The study was conducted on mice, but  Dr. Policy says if this research works safely in humans, it could be applied to other orthopaedic conditions. "High Schools Try Teamwork to Put Trainers Onsite " (New York Times © 12/27/07) Bruce Valentine , Program Manager of Athletic Training Services of our Sports Medicine Center for Young Athletes, was interviewed by the New York Times about the growing trend of adding certified athletic trainers to high school playing fields and practice sessions to address sports injuries. Holiday Donations (KTVU-TV, Oakland, CA © 12/25/07 no link available) Marsha Luster, Social Services Manager, and Haley Oggel , Artist-in-Residence, were featured in this news report about holiday donations at our hospital. The story, which aired on Christmas morning, also discussed donations needed throughout the year. The Adopt-A-Family program, managed by our Social Services Department, helped more than 100 families this holiday season. "Honey, nature's cure for coughs" (KGO-TV, San Francisco © 12/20/07) Gena Lewis, MD and Dayna Long, MD of Primary Care were featured in this television report about a study that found one teaspoon of buckwheat honey soothed children's coughing at night better than the over-the-counter medicine, dextromethorphan (DM). The study was done on children ages 2-18 years old. The American Academy of Pediatrics has recommended against the use of cough medicines. Honey should not be given to children under age 1 or diabetic children. " Study: Vitamin D May Promote Brain Health" (National Public Radio © 12/17/07) Joyce McCann, PhD at CHORI was featured in a report on National Public Radio about how Vitamin D may help brain development and function.  She and Bruce Ames, PhD at CHORI wrote a critical review evaluating scientific evidence that links vitamin D to healthy brain function. The review appears in the online version of the FASEB (Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology) Journal.  Drs. Ames and McCann conclude there is ample evidence to suggest the importance of vitamin D in brain development and function.  They point out that vitamin D protects against rickets and that evidence suggests it can protect against autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis, type I diabetes and some forms of cancer. "Sickle Save: Skin cells fix anemia in mice" (Science News magazine © 12/08/07 ) Mark Walters, MD director of our Bone Marrow Transplant Program was quoted in Science News about a new technique that turned skin cells from mice into stem cells, which were used to cure sickle cell anemia in mice.  The finding was led by a biologist from Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Dr. Walters pointed out that further research and development need to be done before the procedure can advance to human trials. Bed Sharing (Modesto Bee, Modesto, CA © 12/05/07) Pamela Simms-Mackey, MD of Primary Care was interviewed about the practice of co-sleeping with infants, which is common for mothers who breast feed. Dr. Simms-Mackey explained that the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends against co-sleeping. Despite their recommendation, Dr. Simms-Mackey says many of her patients continue to co-sleep with their infants without incident. "Thriving Despite HIV" (Oakland Tribune, Oakland CA © 12/01/07 no link available) Ann Petru, MD of Infectious Disease was featured in this article about people living happy and productive lives with HIV. Dr. Petru is the pediatrician of Eduardo Martenique, who was born free of HIV, just like his two sisters and brother. Their mother, Lizette Green, has been living with HIV for eleven years. Fortunately, Lizette received treatment to block the transmission of the disease to her children. "Munchausen: Unusual Suspects" (Psychology Today © October issue) Herbert A. Schreier, MD, of Psychiatry was featured in this article about Munchausen by Proxy Syndrome (MBPS), a psychological condition in which mothers fabricate illnesses in their children or intentionally make their children ill so they can seek a physician's attention.  Dr. Schreier explains the difference between MBPS and abuse or neglect. > Subscribe to e-news > Become an advocate > Volunteer > Make a donation > Buy a gift for a patient > Get Directions > Careers > News Room > Publications F F Reduce font F F Enlarge font + Favorite Email page Print page Contact us Learn More Past Coverage Archive Children's Stories News Releases Media Relations Policy Experts Guide Patient Conditions Contacts © 2004 - 2012 Children's Hospital & Research Center Oakland • 747 52nd Street, Oakland, California, 94609 • Phone: 510-428-3000 Disclaimer | Notice of Privacy Practices Research, education, advanced treatments and family-centered care for children of all ages. Children's Hospital Oakland--one of the top pediatric medical centers in California. URL: http://www.childrenshospitaloakland.org/about/news archives/newscoverage.December2007_Jan.92008.asp © 2004 - 2012 Children's Hospital & Research Center Oakland • 747 52nd Street, Oakland, California, 94609 • Phone: (510) 428-3000 Disclaimer | Notice of Privacy Practices URL: http://www.childrenshospitaloakland.org