Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

World Without Cancer - Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk - B17 Laetrile Vitamin B17 * When open a local search file in Internet Explorer on Windows XP SP 2, the content may be blocked. To open the file correctly, please click the Information Bar on the top of the browser window, and select "Allow Blocked Content". * There will not be such problem after you upload the file to a web server. * To display this page, you need a web browser with JavaScript support. Home | Introduction | Site Map | Success Stories | Research | Products | FAQ | Contact Us | WWC Audio | • Introduction • Important Warning • About Vitamin B17 • Vitamin B17 as Preventative • Metabolic Therapy in Cancer • B17 In Metabolic Therapy • Laetrile and Cyanide • Graphic on Action of B17 • Frequently Asked Questions • B17 Therapy Components • Accessory Supplements • B17 Therapy Overview • Therapies and Protocols • What is in B17 Therapy? • Maintenance Dosages • Accessory Therapies • Positive Thinking • Implementing Changes • Behaviour of Tumours • Criteria For Evaluation • B17 - Sickle Cell Anaemia • Fluoridation-linked cancer • Contacts • In God We Trust • References • More Studies, Research Metabolic 
    Therapy Component Descriptions • Injectable B17 • B17 (Amygdalin) Tablets • Megazyme Forte • Emulsified Vitamin A+E • Shark Cartilage • Apricot Kernels (Seeds) • Vitamin B-15 (Pangamic Acid) • Vitamin C (Esterfied) • Active Hexose Correlated Compound (AHCC®) • Vitamin E (d-alpha tocopheryl acetate) • Prevenca Antioxidant Formula® • Daily Complete Multi Vitamin • Barley Grass (Just Barley® Juice) Accessory Metabolic Supplements (Not 
    routinely prescribed but recommended) • Maximol (Neways International) • Revenol (Neways International) • Cascading Revenol • Cassie-Tea (Neways International) • Hawaiian Noni Juice (Neways International) • Purge / Feelin' Good (Neways International) • Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) Injectable (IV) B-17/Laetrile/Amygdalin In Mexico, vitamin 
    B-17 in metabolic therapy is administered through intravenous injection for 
    the initial 21 days (phase I) of treatment and then orally afterwards (Phase 
    II) ( See Protocols ). 6 to 9 grams per day are 
    used for the first 21 days in the Oasis of Hope hospital. Dr. Harold Manner 
    and Dr. Ernesto Contreras used this protocol. Injectable B-17 is also invariably 
    administered along with the tissue penetrating agent dimethyl Sulfoxide (DMSO). 
    ( Click here for information of how some doctors use DMSO ). Please Note: Clinical 
    tests have repeatedly shown that vitamin B-17 is only truly effective when 
    used in conjunction with pancreatic enzymes to break down the pericellular 
    coating of the malignant cell. Vitamins A and E in their emulsified form, 
    along with high doses of vitamin C, vitamin B-15, antioxidants, and other 
    nutrients are then used in combination with B-17 to attack the cancer cell. 
    Clinics administering Metabolic Therapy to their patients always use these 
    supplements. *Manner, HW, Michaelson, 
    TL, and DiSanti, SJ. "Enzymatic Analysis of Normal and Malignant Tissues." 
    Presented at the Illinois State Academy of Science, April 1978. Also, Manner, 
    HW, Michaelson, TL, and DiSanti, SJ, "Amygdalin, Vitamin A and Enzymes 
    Induced Regression of Murine Mammary Adenocarcinomas", Journal of Manipulative 
    and Physiological Therapeutics, Vol 1, No. 4, December 1978. 200 East Roosevelt 
    Road, Lombard, IL 60148 USA B-17/Laetrile/Amygdalin Tablets Oral administration 
    of Vitamin B-17 is the most convenient and frequently used method. These tablets 
    contain the active B-17 ingredient derived from the kernels of apricots. Usually 
    available in 100 mg or 500 mg tablets. Some people are confused with the terms 
    Laetrile and Amygdalin. These names essentially refer to the same compound 
    - vitamin B-17 - and are, to all intents and purposes, interchangeable. These 
    tablets are always taken in conjunction with the apricot seeds. Dr. Contreras 
    recommends: 2-4 100 mg tablets 
    as a nutritional supplement for prevention. 4-6 500 mg tablets 
    per day as a nutritional supplement for clinical cancer sufferers, taken in 
    conjunction with enzymes, antioxidants, and other supplements ( See 
    Protocols ). Dr. Krebs says "For 
    some patients in whom gastric acidity is deficient, side reactions of weakness 
    or headache following oral administration may be avoided by taking citrus 
    juices or grape juice, or hydrochloric acid tablets such as betaine hydrochloride 
    to prevent these unpleasant reactions". Megazyme Forte Enzyme Supplement Pancreatic enzyme 
    preparations containing trypsin and chymotrypsin are included as an essential 
    part of vitamin B-17 therapy. Oral dosage of pancreatic enzyme preparations 
    is usually three tablets three times daily two hours after each meal for a 
    total of nine tablets each day. Bromelain is also included in the therapeutic 
    regimen for its proteolytic effect, and for a possible synergistic effect 
    suggested by Dr. Nieper as occurring with vitamin B-17. Dr. Ernest T. Krebs 
    also states: "The demasking effect of these enzymes against the pericellular 
    layer of the malignant cell is something very concrete in the immunology of 
    cancer. Now I prefer, rather than advising the use of bromelain or papaya 
    tablets, that the individual seeking these enzymes get them directly from 
    the fresh ripe pineapple and papaya fruit. As much as half a pineapple a day 
    should be ingested". The enzyme preparations 
    recommended by Dr. Krebs, Dr. Hans Nieper, and Dr. Philip Binzel should be 
    pH-sensitive and enteric coated. Ideally, they also should contain the following 
    ingredients: Pancreatin.........................1250mg Papain...................................150mg Bromelain.............................150mg Trypsin.................................125mg Lipase...................................50mg Amylase................................50mg a-chymotrypsin.........................45mg Rutin.....................................100mg Raw calf thymus concentrate....55mg Zinc gluconate...........................10mg Super oxide dismutase..........50mcg Catalase............................200 Units L-Glutathione...........................10mg Emulsified 
    Vitamin A In 1963 when Dr. Ernesto 
    Contreras initiated his activities as a clinical oncologist, the use of Vitamin 
    A as a useful agent in malignant neoplasm was considered illogical and absurd. 
    Now, Vitamin-A is accepted as an agent of great use for the major epithelial 
    cancers as well as for epidermis carcinomas, chronic leukaemia and transitional 
    cells. The first formal studies 
    of the possible anti-tumour effects of Vitamin A were initiated in Germany, 
    by investigators of Mucos Laboratories in Munich. It was a proven fact, that 
    lung cancer in Norwegian sailors was less common than in other groups, even 
    though they smoked since childhood. Logic indicated that it had to be the 
    opposite. After studying the Phenomenon, it was discovered that they ate abundant 
    quantities of raw fish liver, high in Vitamin A, since childhood. The logical 
    conclusion was that high doses of such vitamin prevented the growth of lung 
    cancer in heavy smokers. But it was also found that high doses of Vitamin 
    A were toxic, and could cause adverse reactions. The main focus was 
    to find out how to administer enough Vitamin A to observe preventive or healing 
    effects, without injuring the liver. The solution was found by one of the 
    investigators, when he discovered that unprocessed milk had the vitamin, and 
    children who were breast-fed never experienced toxic effects. Nature had the 
    solution by including Vitamin A in milk in the form of Micro-Emulsification. Mucos investigators 
    proceeded to prepare a variety of emulsified concentrations, formulating their 
    famous High Concentration A-Mulsin. One drop contains 15,000 units. They were 
    able to administer over a million units per day in progressive doses, without 
    producing hepatic toxicity. The explanation is that, in emulsified form, Vitamin 
    A is absorbed directly into the lymphatic system without going through the 
    liver in high quantities. Having solved the toxicity problem, it was possible 
    to test the product in high doses. It was demonstrated that Vitamin A has 
    the following effects: 1. In normal doses, 
    it protects epithelium and vision. 2. In doses of 100,000 to 300,000 units per day, it works as a potent immune 
    stimulant. 3. In doses of 500,000 to 1,000,000 units per day, it works as a potent anti-tumour 
    agent, especially in epidermis and transitional carcinomas. Shark 
    Cartilage It has been said that 
    sharks are the healthiest beings on earth. Sharks are immune to practically 
    every disease known to man. Many scientists believe that the shark's skeleton, 
    composed entirely of cartilage, is what is responsible for its incredible 
    immunity to disease. According to Dr. Contreras, 
    when administered to cancer patients, shark cartilage has been reported to 
    inhibit the growth of blood vessels, thereby restricting the vitality of the 
    cancerous tumour. In addition, shark cartilage stimulates the production of 
    antibodies and boosts the immune system. Not only is this a non-toxic product 
    recommended for the treatment of cancer, but also for the treatment of inflammatory 
    diseases such as rheumatism and osteoarthritis. Tumours are reported frequently 
    to experience significant reduction in size within one to three months of 
    the initial treatment. It is also noted to enhance the efficacy of vitamin 
    B-17/amygdalin. For in depth information about shark cartilage, Jaws of Life 
    by Dr. Alex Duarte and Sharks Don't Get Cancer by Dr. William Lane provide 
    the complete story. Shark cartilage may be contra-indicated with pregnant 
    or lactating women. (also see article written 
    by Dr. Contreras ) Apricot 
    Seeds/Kernels Apricot kernels are 
    an inexpensive, rich and natural source of vitamin B-17. They also deliver 
    the vitamins, minerals and enzymes not found in the pharmaceutical derivative 
    of B-17. · 10 seeds per 
    day for life are recommended by Dr. Krebs as a nutritional supplement for 
    those exercising cancer prevention. · 30 to 35 seeds 
    per day are recommended by Dr. Krebs as nutritional support for clinical cancer 
    sufferers. In a minority of cases, 
    cancer sufferers may experience nausea when taking seeds. In this event, clinics 
    recommend that dosage is reduced and gradually increased as tolerance is gained. 
    Not all apricot kernels are effective. They must have the characteristic bitter 
    taste indicating that the B-17 ingredient is present. Some apricot seeds for 
    instance, sold in today's health supplement market under the name 'Hunza'do 
    not appear to have this component. Not to be eaten whole. May be pulped, grated, 
    or crushed. Please note: Some cancer 
    sufferers believe that apricot kernels alone are all that is required to fight 
    cancer. Consultation with a qualified health practitioner familiar with Metabolic 
    Therapy is advised for further information. Apricot kernels are usually part 
    of the nutritional support for those exercising cancer prevention for life 
    as well as cancer patients undergoing Phase I or Phase 2 Metabolic Therapy 
    ( see Protocols ). Vitamin 
    B15 (Pangamic Acid) Like B17, it too was 
    discovered by Dr. E.T. Krebs, Jr. while exploring the chemical properties 
    of apricot kernels in 1952. It could be said that it was an unexpected bonus 
    or by-product of the search for vitamin B17. "The best way to understand 
    the effect of vitamin B15 is to think of it as instant oxygen" says Dr. 
    Krebs. "It increases the oxygen efficiency of the entire body and aids 
    in the detoxification of waste products. Since cancer cells do not thrive 
    in the presence of oxygen but depend rather on fermentation of glucose, it 
    is probable that B15, indirectly, is an enemy of cancer". In 1965 the U.S.S.R. 
    Academy of Sciences released a 205-page symposium of its findings up to that 
    date. In 1968 the Scientific Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Health 
    unanimously ratified all the original claims in the report and authorised 
    the Soviet drug industry to begin mass-production of B15 for general use. 
    It has been reported that the Russian athletes have been given heavy doses 
    of B15 during their participation at the Olympics. If this is true, there 
    is good reason for it. Experiments have shown that this substance, although 
    just a natural food factor, greatly increases physical strength and stamina. 
    When rats were put into tubs of water and forced to swim, those that had received 
    vitamin B15 were all still swimming long after the others had fatigued and 
    drowned. When other rats were put into glass chambers from which oxygen gradually 
    was removed, those that had received vitamins lived much longer-thus on less 
    oxygen-than the control group. The Soviet scientists 
    disclosed that vitamin B15 is effective in such areas as circulatory problems, 
    heart conditions, elevated blood cholesterol, skin disorders, hardening of 
    the arteries, bronchial asthma, diabetes mellitus, and wound healing. They 
    were especially emphatic in their findings that B15 was effective in retarding 
    the ageing process! Professor Shpirt of the City Clinical Hospital No. 60 
    in Moscow concluded: "I believe the time will come when there will be 
    calcium pangamate (B15) next to the salt shaker on the table of every family 
    with people past forty." For a detailed analysis 
    of these findings, see Vitamin B15 (Pangamic Acid); Properties, Functions, 
    and Use. (Moscow: Science Publishing House, 1965), translated and reprinted 
    by McNaughton Foundation, Sausalito, Calif. Vitamin 
    C (Esterfied) Low levels of ascorbic 
    acid intake may be associated with higher risks of cancer, heart disease and 
    macular degeneration in the eyes of elderly persons. These are far more significant 
    problems than the deadly disease this vitamin was first known to prevent, 
    scurvy. Ester-C is a formula is designed to strengthen the immune system as 
    well as work as an antioxidant and detoxifier. 99.9% of all animals in the 
    world produce their own Vitamin C in the form of Mineral Ascorbates. Unfortunately, 
    humans suffer from a genetic defect, hypoascorbemia, an inability to produce 
    Vitamin C in our own bodies. Only a few other animals are known to share this 
    problem with humans: Guinea pigs, monkeys, apes, and a type of bat. This may 
    greatly explain why humans don't live so long as they might. A dog matures 
    at 2 years and lives at least 7 times his period of maturity, or 14 years. 
    Humans mature at 20 to 25 years. Seven times 20 equals 140 years, which would 
    appear to be our life potential, if we could produce ascorbate in our own 
    bodies. In addition, reprints 
    of articles published by metabolic physicians Dr. Ernest Krebs, Jr., Dr. Dean 
    Burk (USA), Dr. Hans Nieper of Germany, Dr. Ernesto Contreras of Mexico, Dr. 
    Manuel Navarro of the Philippines, and Dr. Shigeaki Sakai of Japan, concluded 
    that nothing heals within the body without sufficient Vitamin C. Ester-C is a Unique 
    form of buffered vitamin C with metabolites. Metabolites are compounds derived 
    from nutrients that are normally created in the body. Research has demonstrated 
    that this combination of non-acidic C with metabolites is well absorbed and 
    retained in blood cells and tissues. This product is further enhanced with 
    the synergistic blend of bioflavonoids, acerola, rose hips, and rutin. The unique, natural 
    process produces a patented new form of Vitamin C which is gentle to the stomach, 
    non-acidic, with a neutral pH. The only form of C containing natural metabolites 
    to enhance bioavailability of Vitamin C. Active Hexose Correlated Compound (AHCC 
    ®) AHCC (Active Hexose 
    Correlated Compound) is an extract obtained from a hybridisation of several 
    kinds of mushrooms, which are grown in a liquid medium. AHCC contains naturally 
    occurring beneficial ingredients called oligosaccharides (alpha -1- 4 glucan), 
    activated hemicellulose, amino acids, and glycoproteins. Clinical tests have 
    shown that AHCC can be a promising nutritional supplement to traditional anticancer 
    Protocols. It has proven to help increase overall effectiveness while reducing 
    many of the common side effects and improving overall quality of life. According 
    to researchers at the Hokkaido, Kyorin, and Teikyo Universities in Japan, 
    AHCC works by creating a stronger immune response throughout the body. They 
    concluded that it increases the production of NK cells, Killer T-cells, and 
    it induces the production of cytokine. They also concluded that AHCC helps 
    induce levels of Interferon-Gamma, IL-12, IL-2, and TNF-Alpha and it inhibits 
    lAP and TGF-beta. Research is still underway to discover the actual mechanism 
    and how this precisely happens. AHCC. Has also started 
    to attract attention in North America. A study was recently conducted at the 
    Oasis of Hope Hospital in Mexico, which produced favourable results. The University 
    of California recently conducted a six-month study in which prostate cancer 
    patients were given 9 grams of AHCC per day. The Southwest College of Naturopathic 
    Medicine recently started a six-month trial involving HIV/AIDS patients. In 
    addition to these two formal clinical trials, numerous other physicians and 
    several major research institutes including Columbia University have been 
    working with AHCC on an informal basis. Clinical trials using AHCC treatment 
    for AIDS and HIV patients are also currently being conducted. Vitamin E (d-alpha tocopheryl acetate) Vitamin E is a powerful 
    antioxidant that protects cell membranes as well as other parts of the body, 
    which are fat-soluble. Dr. Philip Binzel describes its therapeutic use with 
    vitamin B17 in his book Alive and Well. Dr. Krebs, in his book The Physician's 
    Handbook of Vitamin B-17 Therapy describes it as follows: "Vitamin E 
    may augment the anti-oxidant effect of Vitamin C and aid in the conservation 
    of oxygen in tissues. Patients with elevated blood pressure should be started 
    on small doses gradually increased as blood pressure adaptation occurs*. The 
    dosage range is from 300 to 2400 I.U. per day." *Catalona, et al. Medical 
    World News, 6/23/72, pg 82M PREVEN-CA ® Antioxidant Formula PREVEN-CA ® is 
    a natural source of important nutrients that contain powerful antioxidants 
    and other substances with great protective and preventive value. Antioxidants 
    neutralise cell damage caused by free radicals, formed by high fat diets, 
    smoking, smog, alcohol, ultraviolet radiation, and other many other substances 
    generated in our modern lifestyles. Many cancer patients have taken this product 
    as aid in their treatments and it is now widely used in USA, Japan, and Mexico. Preven-ca is a combination 
    of shark cartilage and medicinal herbs, which contains many essential amino 
    acids. It was designed by the OASIS doctors to inhibit tumour growth, provide 
    antioxidants to detoxify the body, strengthen the immune system, and provide 
    important nutrients to complement the patient's daily nutrition. Preven-ca is a natural 
    formula for prevention containing the following elements: CARDUS MARIANUS: Also 
    known as milk thistle extract. It may protect the cells of the liver by blocking 
    the entrance of harmful toxins and helping remove these toxins from the liver 
    cells. As with other bioflavonoids, cardius marianus is a powerful antioxidant. It also regenerates 
    injured liver cells. Milk thistle extract is most commonly recommended to 
    counteract the harmful actions of alcohol on the liver. This substance has 
    no side effects. GRAPE SEED EXTRACT: The main functions of proanthocyanidins (found in grape 
    seed extract) are antioxidant activity, stabilisation of collagen, and maintenance 
    of elastin-two critical proteins in connective tissue, blood vessels, and 
    muscle. CARROT ROOT: It acts as an antioxidant and immune system booster. VITAMINS: A (20,000 I.U.), vitamins B-1, B-2, B-3, B-5, C, E, and Vitamin-K. MINERALS: Sodium, Calcium, Potassium, Magnesium, Zinc, Iron, Manganese, and 
    Cooper. RICH IN PROTEINS AND AMINOACIDS. SHARK CARTILAGE (see Shark Cartilage Product Information). GARLIC: Garlic is mentioned in the Bible and the Talmud. Hippocrates, Galen, 
    Pliny the Elder, and Dioscorides all mention the use of garlic for many conditions, 
    including parasites, respiratory problems, poor digestion, and low energy. Its use in China was first mentioned in A.D. 
    510. Louis Pasteur confirmed the antibacterial action of garlic in 1858. Human 
    population studies show that eating garlic regularly reduces the risk of oesophageal, 
    stomach, and colon cancer. This is partly due to its ability to reduce the 
    formation of carcinogenic compounds. Animal and test tube studies also show 
    that garlic and its sulphur compounds inhibit the growth of different types 
    of cancer, especially breast and skin tumours. ALFALFA: This is a plant with abundant nutritive elements necessary in our 
    daily diet. It is rich in Proteins, Vitamin A, B-1 (thiamine), B-2 (riboflavin), vitamin C, K, Phosphorus, 
    Calcium, Zinc, Iron, Magnesium, Manganese, and Cooper. BOLDO: Scientists believe that boldine is responsible for the plant's choloretic 
    (bile stimulating) and diuretic actions. In conjunction with other herbs, 
    such as cascara, rhubarb, and gentian, boldo has been reported to improve 
    symptoms related to loss of appetite. It is thought that 
    60% of all degenerative diseases are directly related to a factor in our daily 
    diet. Diet and Nutrition are probably the most important factor in the prevention 
    of degenerative disease. PREVEN-CA is a natural product in capsule form, which 
    delivers most of the nutrients that you regularly require and are not contained 
    in your daily diet. Many of these nutrients are necessary for our body to 
    work at its highest potential. Daily Complete® Liquid Multivitamin Multiple vitamin/mineral 
    (MVM) supplements contain a variable number of essential nutrients. Their 
    primary purpose is to provide a convenient way to take a variety of supplemental 
    nutrients from a single product, in order to prevent vitamin or mineral deficiencies, 
    as well as to achieve higher intakes of nutrients believed to be of benefit 
    above typical dietary levels. Both Dr. Philip Binzel and Dr. Ernesto Contreras 
    have always included a multivitamin complex as part of their cancer protocol. Daily Complete® 
    is a 100% plant sourced vegetarian liquid formula. One ounce provides you 
    with 190 of the vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and important accessory nutrients 
    that your body needs on a daily basis. This all-natural formula helps assure 
    that you will obtain the nourishment you need while undergoing metabolic therapy. Fast Fact: Daily Complete® 
    contains Phenalgin, which is one of the most powerful antioxidants on the 
    planet. Barley Grass (Just Barley® Juice) Barley Grass therapy 
    consists primarily of detoxification and consuming a wheat-grass drink several 
    times each day. Fresh barley grass in this form is a potent source of many 
    vitamins, minerals and plant enzymes. Thus, it is said to be nature's own 
    nutritional program. Wheat grass and barley grass also contain Vitamin B17 
    (Amygdalin/Laetrile), although other sources, such as apricot seeds are more 
    potent. Barley grass juice 
    is the powdered form of the pure natural juice of young barley leaves. It 
    provides one of the widest spectrums of naturally occurring nutrients available 
    in a single source on the earth today. Just Barley contains at least 16 vitamins, 
    23 minerals, 18 amino acids, and numerous usable enzymes. It also has one 
    of the most alkaline pH factors available in a food and contains large amounts 
    of natural chlorophyll (the blood of the plant). Dr. Contreras uses sources 
    of barley grass to complement his cancer protocol. Just Barley® is 
    grown from select organic seeds at over 5000 ft elevation in the mineral rich 
    soil of an ancient volcanic lakebed. Just Barley is irrigated with pure mineral 
    spring water and harvested at the peak of nutrition. It is processed "on 
    sight" being dehydrated at 880 F to lock in nutritional potency. Just Barley Green is 
    also guaranteed to be pure, vegetarian, and 100% organically grown. It is 
    also guaranteed to be 100% pure barley juice extract containing no binders, 
    fillers, sweeteners, or additives of any kind. Accessory 
    Metabolic Supplements (Not routinely prescribed but recommended) Maximol (Neways International) The huge rise in incidences 
    of cancer and other degenerative diseases are primarily due to the depleted 
    vitamin/mineral content in today's western diet coupled with environmental/chemical 
    toxin factors. The key nutritional ingredients invariably missing for cancer 
    are 817 and the trace mineral selenium. A recent US study showed an overall 
    drop of 50% in cancer deaths and a fall of 37% in new cancer cases, especially 
    lung, bowel and prostate -among 1,300 volunteers taking supplements for four 
    years*. Mineral supplementation 
    is most effective in the ionised 'liquid suspension' form, assisted by fulvic 
    acid, where a 98% assimilation by the body is expected, as against 48% for 
    chelated minerals and 10-12% for metallic minerals. Our bodies use minerals 
    as raw material. The body cannot manufacture these and so have to be present 
    in the food and liquids we ingest. Sadly, as mentioned previously, our food 
    chain is severely depleted of minerals, resulting in over 150 nutritional 
    deficiency diseases that are now striking our societies with increasing intensity. To combat this very 
    real threat, mineral and vitamin supplementation, far from being a quaint 
    health fad, is essential for everyone and can literally make the difference 
    between life or death, especially for those with cancer. To combat this threat, 
    Neways has formulated Maximol Solutions, probably the world's most complete 
    liquid nutritional supplement, which contains 67 essential and trace minerals, 
    17 essential vitamins, 21 amino acids, three enzymes, and lactobacillus acidophilus. 
    To provide greater absorption of all these ingredients, Maximol has been formulated 
    with nature's natural chelator, used by plants and animals for the absorption 
    of minerals and nutrients - organic fulvic acid. It is known that fulvic acid 
    aids in the transport and assimilation of minerals and nutrients into living 
    cells. This may in part be due to its low molecular weight, its electrical 
    potential, and its bio-transporting ability. Fulvic acid aids in the selective 
    trading or supply of minerals and other nutrient factors inside the cell. 
    Fulvic acid is effective at neutralising a wide range of toxic material - 
    from heavy metals and radioactive waste to petrochemicals. Before minerals can 
    be utilised, they must first be converted from their particular colloidal 
    state to a micro-colloidal state. Thus, for greater bioavailability, Neways 
    has formulated Maximol Solutions as an organic fulvic acid complexed micro-colloidal 
    solution. In this form, Maximol provides higher percentages of easily assimilated 
    minerals than non-ionised colloidal mineral supplements, whose particles are 
    often too large for easy absorption. *Daily Mail, 28th July 
    1999, p.31 Revenol (Neways International) Scientists tell us 
    that vitamins A, C, and E, as well as beta carotene and other antioxidant 
    bioflavonoids, are vitally important to good health. Antioxidants have about 
    20 times the power of Vitamin C and 50 times that of Vitamin E. The Neways 
    product Revenol contains antioxidants that are broad-spectrum. Revenol contains 
    antioxidants from maritime pine bark and grape seed pycnogenols extracts - 
    up to 95% in concentration and bioavailability. Revenol also contains curcuminoids 
    - nature's most powerful and aggressive antioxidant, which is around 150 times 
    more powerful than Vitamin E, about 60 times more powerful than Vitamin C, 
    and about 3 times more powerful than antioxidants from maritime pine bark 
    and grape seed pycnogenols extract1*. * Majeed, Muhammed, Ph.D. et al Curcuminoids - Antioxidant Phytonutrients, 
    Nutriscience Publishers, 121 Ethel Road West, Unit 6, Piscataway, NJ 08854 
    USA Revenol also contains 
    ginkgo biloba for the brain and circulatory system; alpha and beta carotene 
    to increase potency; Esterfied Vitamin C - a bonded form of Vitamin C that 
    increases its power and residual retention in the body (up to 3 days); natural 
    Vitamin E for greater absorption and effectiveness. Micro-spheres are also 
    included which bond to the intestinal wall, allowing up to 400% more of the 
    ingredients to be digested and absorbed. Each tablet of Revenol 
    supplies over 60 milligrams of curcuminoids and maritime pine bark and grape 
    seed extract. An independent study on antioxidants has been conducted by Russian 
    biochemists. As they announce their findings to the World Health Organisation, 
    Revenol is expected to be listed as the world's Number 1 effective antioxidant. Cascading Revenol Neways has also released 
    an exciting, further version of Revenol, named Cascading Revenol. Free radicals, 
    unpaired oxygen molecules that are hungry to scavenge additional oxygen, damage 
    healthy cells and are especially dangerous for cancer suffers. Antioxidants 
    such as Vitamin C neutralise the damage caused by these free radicals. The 
    problem is, after having entered the body, most antioxidant molecular structures 
    will grab one free radical and then change into an inert state, ceasing to 
    be of further scavenging value. The additional problem is that even when an 
    antioxidant neutralises a free radical, the process creates an off-shoot free 
    radical that is slightly different and less potent in variety, which in turn 
    creates another, and so on. Typical antioxidants have no ability to address 
    this free radical cascading effect. However Cascading 
    Revenol's technologically advanced formulation actually regenerates these 
    scavenging molecules so that they can neutralise multiple free radicals. So, 
    instead of only one free radical being destroyed per antioxidant molecule, 
    each molecule is able to change structure and repeat the process again and 
    again. Thus the value of each individual antioxidant molecule increases exponentially. 
    Cascading Revenol's unique action is devastating to the free radical onslaught 
    that damages cancer sufferers. This product can be an essential component 
    in any B17 Metabolic Therapy treatment. Cassie-Tea (Neways International) Cassie-Tea is a traditional 
    health formula designed to help assist the body's efforts to eliminate toxins 
    that accumulate in the body with age. Turkey rhubarb root supports liver and 
    intestinal health, while sheep sorrel herb and burdock root help in the body's 
    efforts to maintain the blood stream. Slippery Elm helps soothe irritated 
    mucus membranes and soothe and moisten the respiratory tract. Neways' Cassie-Tea 
    is the same as the famous Essiac. René Caisse, a Canadian nurse, treated 
    thousands of cancer patients for sixty years using an herbal drink popular 
    with the Ojibway Indians. In 1937 the Royal Cancer Commission of Canada conducted 
    hearings concerning Essiac ('Caisse' backwards) and pronounced as its conclusion 
    that the preparation had marked anti-cancer properties. Tom Mower, the president 
    of Neways, obtained the formulation for Cassie-Tea from a source that used 
    to mix the tea for Nurse Caisse. Cassie-Tea is an excellent nutritional supplement 
    for those undergoing B17 Metabolic Therapy. Hawaiian Noni Juice (Neways International) The fruit juice of 
    Morinda citrifolia contains a polysaccharide-rich substance with marked anti-tumour 
    activity, according to recent studies into the famous fruit*. This research, 
    performed at the University of Hawaii, has resulted in exciting new and scientifically 
    reputable evidence for the potential benefits of Noni fruit juice in the treatment 
    of cancer. Neways Authentic Hawaiian Noni features all the health-enhancing 
    benefits of the noni plant as well as raspberry and blueberry extracts - both 
    powerful antioxidants. * Hirazumi, A & 
    Eiichi Furusawa, "An Immunomodulatory Polysaccharide-Rich Substance from 
    the Fruit Juice of Morinda citrifolia (Noni) with Antitumour Activity", 
    Dept. of Pharmacology, John A Burns School of Medicine, Hawaii, HI 96822 USA Purge / Feelin' Good (Neways International) Researchers state 
    that the majority of people especially those with cancer, play host to one 
    form of parasite or another. Parasites are life forms that are uninvited lodgers 
    in our bodies who do not pay rent. They can range from tiny amoebae detectable 
    only with a microscope to tapeworms many feet in length. We inadvertently pick 
    up parasites through our day-to-day activities and especially through eating 
    undercooked or contaminated food. Blood flukes for instance can enter our 
    systems through infected drinking water and take up residence in the bladder, 
    intestines, liver, lungs, rectum and spleen, laying their eggs and breeding 
    in humans for up to 20 years. Trichina worm larvae found in undercooked pork 
    migrate from the intestines through the blood and lymphatic system, eventually 
    lodging in muscles. Threadworm larvae enter skin from the soil and pass through 
    the bloodstream to the lungs, sometimes causing pneumonia. Eliminating parasites 
    is effectively a three-phase program. Killing them, flushing them out and 
    then supplementing our relieved bodies with healthy nutrients to maintain 
    optimum health. Neways features this very effective three-phase program, employing 
    their products Purge, Feelin' Good and Maximol Solutions respectively to execute 
    the clean-up, leaving you bug-free and, most importantly, invigorated and 
    strengthened to avoid re-infestation. Dimethyl 
    sulfoxide (DMSO) DMSO is a by-product 
    of the wood and paper industry and has gained prominence in recent times as 
    a highly effective agent in the treatment of herpes, cancer and other diseases. 
    It is known for its ability to permeate living tissue and stimulate cellular 
    processes. Dr. Morton Walker in his book, DMSO: The New Healing Power, describes 
    how it blocks pain, reduces inflammation, kills bacteria and funguses, reduces 
    blood clotting, improves circulation, neutralises free radicals, stimulates 
    the immune system, and hastens the healing of wounds. It is used for everything 
    from minor cuts and cold sores to insect bites, athletic injuries, arthritic 
    aches and pains, and cancer. DMSO is known for 
    its unique ability solvent that penetrates the blood/brain barrier and is 
    used with B17 intravenously to deliver the principal treatment deep into the 
    body without changing the latter's chemical structure. DMSO is renowned for 
    its ability to penetrate the body's tissue rapidly and completely. Some clinics 
    use it on all types of cancer, though doctors prefer not to use it with cases 
    of liver or kidney disease. The dose most doctors 
    use is as follows: Intravenous Use: 3 
    cc to 5 cc of DMSO for every 10cc of Vitamin B-17 in a 30 cc syringe. e.g. 
    Each 3 gram vial of vitamin B-17 contains 10 cc. The contents of two 3 gram 
    vials would be mixed with 6 to 10cc of DMSO, in a 30 cc syringe. Topical Use: Doctors 
    have patients mix 1.4 oz (42cc) of DMSO with 0.6 oz (18cc) of pure water in 
    a glass bottle (not plastic); Using natural cotton (not synthetic), 1 teaspoon 
    of this mix is applied 2 or 3 times per day to a soft skin area of the body, 
    leaving on for 10 minutes and then rinsing area. DMSO may be applied close 
    to the affected area. Most people feel that its garlic-like odour is 
	a small price to pay for its unique benefits . 2001 
			Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk By Accessing this web site you accept 
			all its terms and conditions. ©Copyright 2000 - Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk - PO Box 2038 - Leigh-on-Sea - SS9 2ZB - 
			UK Home | Introduction | Site Map | Success St