
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 12:20:33 GMT
Server: Apache
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: d435e1bc2825efa6f42a1344a4651dae=6l99u5numppveenq95cnnu0at0; path=/
Set-Cookie: d435e1bc2825efa6f42a1344a4651dae=fvl95qoiacavljno6tojbq05e6; path=/
Set-Cookie: d435e1bc2825efa6f42a1344a4651dae=6l99u5numppveenq95cnnu0at0; path=/
Set-Cookie: jsid=fvl95qoiacavljno6tojbq05e6; expires=Tue, 24-Apr-2012 13:20:33 GMT; path=/
Last-Modified: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 12:20:33 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

How's Your Internal  "Plumbing" Working?  ...read more.. Home About Us Services Products Appointments HC Events Blog Login Contact Us How's Your Internal  "Plumbing" Working?  ...read more.. Posted by Donna Randolph / Trackback / June 07, 2011 / in Herbs 0 Comments Tags: General , Natures Sunshine Products If  Urinary Problems Are Draining Your Health, Natural  Remedies Can Help! When it comes to health, people don't think as much about their urinary  system as they do about their heart or brain, but their two bean-shaped  kidneys are just as critical to their life and health. The body is about  60-70% water, and the urinary system has to filter every ounce of it. This  job is so critical that if your kidneys shut down you'd be dead in just a  few days, if you weren't put on a dialysis machine. However, the kidneys are much more than filters. They also help regulate  blood pressure and maintain fluid and mineral balance. In Chinese medicine, the  kidneys are the home of "jing" or life essence. In other words, their  function is an essential foundation to good health. The kidneys also play a crucial role in regulating blood pressure. By  selectively reabsorbing water, mineral salts, and glucose back into the  blood stream, the kidneys help control the circulating levels of these  substances. Too much water can produce high blood pressure or water  retention.  Too little water can cause fainting, dizziness dehydration. Natural  Solutions to Urinary Problems Before we provide you with suggestions for natural aids to specific urinary  tract problems, we need to stress the importance of water to kidney function.  Most urinary problems can be aided by drinking more purified water. So, hydrate  yourself first, then use some of the following remedies for specific urinary  tract problems. Diuretics are remedies that promote the flow of urine and are used with  edema. Unfortunately, many people use diuretic drugs that also deplete the body  of potassium, an important mineral needed for kidney function. Fortunately,  herbal diuretics are often rich in potassium, and can actually make the kidneys  stronger when taken over time. K id ney Ac ti v a tor and Ch in e s e K idney  A ct i va tor are excellent herbal diuretic formulas, which can be used to reduce  fluid retention. They may also be used for urinary tract infections, bladder  irritation and other urinary tract disorders when taken with plenty of water to  flush the urinary passages. Urinary  Tract Infections (UTls) We think of urine as being unsanitary, but the truth is that urine is  sterile, that is, free of bacteria. In order to get a bacterial infection in the  bladder or urethra, bacteria have to enter the urethra and travel upwards into  the urinary system. Women are five times more prone to UTIs than men because  they have much shorter urethra. In fact, according to the Kidney and Urology  Foundation of America, one in five women will have problems with UTIs in her  lifetime. Research shows that cranberries have the ability inhibit bacteria from  adhering to urinary passages, which helps prevent bladder infections. So, if  you're prone to frequent UTIs, drinking unsweetened cranberry juice or taking Cranberry  and Buchu combination d a i l y can  help to prevent infections. Cranberry is not helpful, however, for getting rid  of an active infection in the urinary tract. If you have a UTI, drink lots of water and take an herbal diuretic  formula to flush the urinary passages. JP-X is a good diuretic formula for UTls because it contains uva  ursi and goldenseal ,  two herbs that help to fight infection in the urinary tract, although Kidney  Activator and Chinese  Kidney Activator can also be used. Along with the herbal diuretic, take a good infection-fighting  remedy like Echinacea and Goldenseal , Olive  Leaf Extract or Silver  Shield . Uva ursi is a very good single herb for disinfecting the urinary tract,  especially when made into a tea. Urinary  Incon t inence When the sphincter muscle at the bottom of the bladder is unable to retain  urine, it may leak from the bladder. This problem is due to a lack of muscle  tone in the sphincter muscle. An astringent, such as uva  ursi, may be helpful. It works best when it is made into a tea. Other  remedies that may be beneficial include KB-C and Urinary  Maintenance . Be d -wett i ng  and Urina t ing at N ight Young children also have trouble controlling urination because the sphincter  muscle is not fully developed. This problem normally resolves itself as they  grow older. When adults get stressed or have blood sugar imbalances they may  have to wake up several times a night to urinate, but children who tend to sleep  deeper will just wet the bed. Nervous  Fatigue Formula or Adrenal  Support helps adults and children reduce the urge to urinate at night by  balancing blood sugar, reducing stress and supporting adrenal function. With  young children, use Licorice  Root extract to build the adrenals and balance blood sugar. It also helps  the body hold onto water. Magnesium  Complex may also help. It may also help to drink plenty of water during the day and less water at  bedtime. A diuretic, taken during the day, will also help encourage urination  during the day. Cornsilk is a good choice for young children, Chinese  Kidney Activator is a good remedy for older children and adults. Kidn ey S tones If you  are prone to kidney stones, it may also help to avoid foods that significantly  increase urinary oxalate including nuts, chocolate, tea, and peanuts. Caffeine  and carbonated beverages both increase the risk of forming kidney stones. Magnesium and vitamin  B6 are good supplements to take to prevent kidney stones. When stones have  formed you can help them to pass by using hydrangea and lemon water. Mix the juice of four lemons in a gallon of distilled water and  drink this while fasting. Take four capsules of hydrangea every two to four hours. Lobelia or kava  kava can be used to relax urinary passages, aid passing and ease pain. Marshmallow soothes urinary membranes and may also be helpful. Kidne y  W e akne s s In Chinese medicine, a deficiency of the chi or energy of the kidneys results  in a weakening of the structural system. Arthritis, osteoporosis, low back pain  and weakness in the lower  extremities are all signs of kidney chi  deficiency. KB-C is ideal for building kidney chi, especially in older persons whose bones are  becoming more fragile. It helps the kidneys function better and become more  efficient at eliminating waste acids from the system. It can ease low back pain  from kidney stress, relieve gouty arthritis, help prevent kidney stones (when  taken with plenty of water) and strengthen the urinary system to prevent chronic  UTls. KB-C may also help frequent urination and urinary incontinence. Prostatitis  and BP H In the male "plumbing" system, the prostate sits just under the urinary  bladder, surrounding the urethra. If the prostate becomes inflamed, it will  swell, making urination difficult, a condition known as prostatitis. The  prostate can also enlarge due to over stimulation of estrogens, a condition is  known as benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH). Remedies that reduce prostate swelling or help to shrink the prostate can  improve urinary function in men. These include PS  II , a good remedy for prostatitis, and Men's  Formula , which helps BPH. Comments (0) Please login to comment Powered by LyftenBloggie Copyright © 2010 ---. All Rights Reserved. Designed by