Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Calcium - Glossary Definition Home Start The Analyst FAQ Search Glossary: Calcium Definition of Calcium The body's most abundant mineral. Its primary function is to help build and maintain bones and teeth. The body also needs calcium to carry nerve signals, keep the heart functioning, contract muscles, clot blood and maintain healthy skin. Calcium helps control blood acid-alkaline balance, plays a role in cell division, muscle growth and iron utilization, activates certain enzymes, and helps transport nutrients through cell membranes. Calcium also forms a cellular cement called ground substance that helps hold cells and tissues together. Topics Related to Calcium A Raw Food/Fruitarian Diet The Condition "...A long-term raw food diet should be supplemented as the intake of vitamins D, B2, B3 (niacin), B12 and the minerals zinc and calcium are typically low..." A Vegetarian Diet The Condition "... Calcium is easy to find in a vegetarian diet..." Acidosis The Condition "...This deprives the body of alkaline minerals such as sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium and leaves us prone to chronic and degenerative diseases..." Addictions / Addictive Tendencies The Condition "... Calcium and Magnesium help nourish the central nervous system and help control tremors by calming the body..." Aerobic Exercise As A Treatment "...What It Is Used For: Specific benefits of aerobic exercise include ...  Increased muscle mass; improved bone calcium levels and strength..." Alfalfa As A Treatment "...Because its deep root system reaches where other plants can not, Alfalfa is a rich source of the minerals calcium , magnesium, phosphorous, iron, potassium, and trace minerals..." Alpha Lipoic Acid As A Treatment "...Lipoic acid is also a super-chelator, capable of removing form our bodies excess iron, calcium , copper, toxic molecules such as cadmium, lead and mercury, as well as organic hydrocarbons..." Aluminum Consumption Avoidance As A Treatment "...It is believed that when iron, and calcium , and to a lesser degree magnesium, silicon and zinc levels drop, the uptake of aluminium worsens..." Alzheimer's Disease Recommendation Aluminum Consumption Avoidance "...The sample was divided into 77 drinking water areas, with surveys conducted to determine concentrations of aluminum, calcium , and fluorine in each water supply..." Recommendation Zinc "...An increase was found in aluminum, silicon and calcium ; a significant decrease was found in zinc and selenium..." Anemia (Iron deficiency) Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Anxiety The Condition "...Treatment and Prevention: Nutrients such as calcium and magnesium, B-vitamins, niacinamide, B12 injections (especially if stomach acid production is insufficient), tryptophan with inositol and chromium, valerian root, and GABA can have a..." Recommendation Magnesium "...Whereas calcium stimulates muscle contraction, magnesium relaxes them..." Arjun As A Treatment "...Function; Reasons for Use: The bark of the tree contains calcium salts, magnesium salts, tannins and glucosides and has stimulant, tonic, antibacterial, antimutagenic, and astringent properties..." Atherosclerosis The Condition "...is the most common form of arteriosclerosis, a class of diseases in which the walls of a person's artery become thicker and less elastic through deposits along the arteries that often contain calcium ..." Atrophic Gastritis Relationship to Osteoporosis - Osteopenia "Stomach acid is required to enhance the absorption of minerals such as calcium ..." Banana As A Treatment "...2mg of Calcium , 44..." Beetroot As A Treatment "...It is very useful in fighting anemia as it contains potassium, phosphorus, calcium , sulfur, iodine, copper, carbohydrates, protein, fat, vitamin B1, B2, B6, niacin and vitamin P..." Bioflavonoids As A Treatment "...Quercetin has been shown to have an effect on a variety of biological systems, mostly through its interaction with calmodulin, a calcium regulating protein..." Birth Control Pill Issues The Condition "...Nutrients that can be increased by the use of Oral Contraceptives: Calcium ..." Bladderwrack As A Treatment "... Calcium alginate (the calcium salt of alginic acid) has shown promise as an agent to speed wound healing in animal studies, but has not been demonstrated to be effective in humans..." Boron As A Treatment "...Boron has been shown to be helpful in the calcium and estrogen levels in postmenopausal women..." Related Topic "A mineral that may play a role in maintaining strong bones, affecting calcium and magnesium metabolism and proper membrane function..." Broad Beans As A Treatment "...Rich in carbohydrates, protein, calcium , phosphorous and several vitamins, they are more digestible while tender..." Bruxism (Clenching/Grinding Teeth) The Condition "...Other treatments include ...  Dietary supplements - Taking certain combinations of dietary supplements may alleviate bruxism; pantothenic acid, magnesium, and calcium are mentioned on dietary supplement websites..." Relationship to Calcium Requirement "...Of these, 16 took calcium , vitamin A, vitamin C, Vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid), iodine, and vitamin E..." Recommendation Magnesium "Until further research is done, the best strategy may involve taking the following on a daily basis: magnesium, calcium and pantothenic acid..." Bursitis Our Question about the stressfulness of your lifestyle "...During stress, calcium is drawn out of the bones although the serum calcium may remain normal..." Calcium As A Treatment " Calcium is present in a wide range of foods such as dairy products, dark-green leafy vegetables, sea vegetables, canned salmon, sardines, tofu, dried fruits, nuts (almonds, brazils) and seeds -..." Calcium Requirement The Condition " Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the human body..." Our Question about your age "Those aged 19 through 50 who are not getting at least 1000mg of calcium per day through low oxalate greens, fortified foods such as orange juice, soy milk or dairy products probably have a calcium requirement..." Relationship to Osteoporosis - Osteopenia "When body stores of calcium are low, the body must draw calcium from the bones in order to avoid serious complications..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Recommendation Calcium " Calcium supplements are best taken between meals, ideally right before bed..." Recommendation Vitamin D "Vitamin D is essential for absorption of calcium from the gut..." Recommendation Increased Fruit/Vegetable Consumption "Dark green leafy vegetables and broccoli are rich in calcium ..." Calcium-2AEP As A Treatment "... Calcium 2-AEP protects cells against penetration by aggressive substances such as toxins, bacteria and viruses, but permits penetration and transport of nutritive substances..." Calcium-D-Glucarate As A Treatment " Calcium D-glucarate is a botanical extract found in grapefruit, apples, oranges, broccoli and brussels sprouts..." Carbohydrate Craving The Condition "...Low-fat or fat-free milk and yogurt are excellent sources of calcium , protein and riboflavin..." Carcinoid Cancer Relationship to General Mineral Requirement "When diarrhea is present, minerals such as potassium, magnesium, calcium , iron and even salt may be deficient and should be replaced as necessary..." Cardiomyopathy Relationship to Magnesium Requirement "...The other 3 patients had a cardiomyopathy with electron microscopic findings consistent with intracellular calcium overload, possibly due to reduced intracellular magnesium..." CBC (Complete Blood Count) Test As A Treatment "...For example, albumin and calcium levels may increase when shifting from lying down to an upright position..." Change In Clothing Habits As A Treatment "...Research suggests that solar exposure triggers the body's synthesis of Vitamin D, vital for (among other things) calcium absorption and a strong immune system..." Chelation Related Topic "...The purpose of chelation is to increase the flow of blood to the vital organs and tissues of the body by reducing calcium deposits in the arteries and blood vessels..." Chelation Therapy As A Treatment "...Function: Chelation (key-lay-shun) is a chemical process by which a metal or mineral (such as lead, mercury, copper, arsenic, aluminum, calcium ) is bonded to another substance and subsequently voided from the body..." Cluster Headaches The Condition "... Calcium Channel Blockers Calcium channel blockers, typically used in treating cardiovascular conditions, are used to treat cluster headache episodes and chronic cluster headaches..." Colon Cancer Recommendation Milk/Dairy Products "A long-term high consumption of milk, but not calcium , vitamin D or fermented milk, was associated with a reduced risk of colon cancer in a study of 9,959 men and women aged 15 years or older without history of cancer at baseline who were..." Recommendation Multiple Vitamin Supplement "...Breaking down the various nutrients, it is thought that perhaps it was the increased calcium and vitamin D intake from supplements that was responsible for the reduced risk [Cancer Causes Control 14 (2003): p..." Consequences of Poor Diet Relationship to Osteoporosis - Osteopenia "Excess salt and sugar, found in junk foods, leach calcium from the bones into the urine..." COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) Recommendation Test Magnesium Levels "...The authors note during the past few years there has been an increase in calcium consumption in the U..." Coronary Disease / Heart Attack Recommendation Calcium "One study showed a 30% to 35% reduction in ischemic heart disease risk in women with a high intake of supplemental calcium ..." Recommendation Increased Legume Consumption "...Legumes contain low levels of sodium and high levels of potassium, calcium and magnesium - a combination that is associated with a reduced risk of heart disease..." Crohn's Disease The Condition "...Increased urine oxalate and calcium oxalate renal calculi due to increased colonic absorption of dietary oxalate..." Dairy Products Avoidance As A Treatment "... Calcium The dairy industry owns the psychological exclusive rights to calcium in foods found in supermarkets..." Dermatomyositis The Condition "...Hard nodules of calcium deposits under the skin (calcinosis) are common in juvenile dermatomyositis, but not in the adult form..." Diabetes Insipidus The Condition "...Causes of nephrogenic DI include certain kidney diseases and can be influenced by low blood potassium level, protein starvation, high blood calcium level, sickle cell anemia and medication use (such as lithium, demeclocycline and methoxyflurane)..." Diarrhea The Condition "...Short stature, weakness due to multifactorial anemia (iron, folate and occasional vitamin B12 deficiency), bone pain and spontaneous fractures from vitamin D and calcium malabsorption, bruising and bleeding related to vitamin K deficiency, gas and bloating due to carbohydrate malabsorption, and edema from albumin and protein loss are typical complaints of..." Dong Quai As A Treatment "...The coumarin levels in dong quai are potentially blood-thinning, and have also been known to block calcium channels..." Elevated Cortisol Levels Relationship to Osteoporosis - Osteopenia "...Also, to provide the extra calcium needed when faced with intense stress situation, cortisol can directly stimulate bone breakdown cells..." Estrogen Replacement As A Treatment "...One of the long-term problems that occurs with the loss of estrogen at menopause include is the loss of calcium from the bones, causing them to become thin and brittle..." Excess Phytates in Diet The Condition "...They bind with minerals such as iron, calcium , and zinc and interfere with their absorption in the body..." Excess Protein Consumption Relationship to Osteoporosis - Osteopenia "High protein intakes may lead to loss of calcium , leading in turn to the development of osteoporosis..." Excess Sugar Consumption The Condition "...has 14% of the RDA for calcium and 28% for iron..." Female Hair Loss Relationship to Manganese Requirement "...Eighteen patients showed considerable problems with calcium absorption, and twelve patients had problems with their zinc metabolism..." Fish Oils As A Treatment "...Some, but not all, studies suggest that fish oil and GLA taken along with calcium may be helpful in preventing osteoporosis..." Fluoride Toxicity Recommendation Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) "See link between Fluorosis and Calcium ..." Recommendation Calcium "It has been observed that the ingestion of calcium , vitamin C or vitamin D, individually, is effective in protection from fluoride toxicity to a certain extent..." Recommendation Vitamin D "See link between Fluorosis and Calcium ..." Food Additive Avoidance As A Treatment "...Bread may have sodium-stearoyl-2-lactylate, caramel and calcium propionate..." Fo-Ti / Heshouwu As A Treatment "...Other constituents include lecithins, sitosterol, catechins, cyanidins, calcium (2225ppm), iron, zinc and large amounts of starch..." Gallbladder Disease The Condition "...They are composed of calcium bilirubinate, or calcified bilirubin, the substance formed by the breakdown of hemoglobin in the blood..." Gallstone Related Topic "Stone-like objects in either the gallbladder or bile ducts, composed mainly of cholesterol and occasionally mixed with calcium ..." General Mineral Requirement The Condition "... Calcium and zinc, for example, are essential for bone growth and immune system support..." Our Question about level of coffee consumption "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Relationship to Osteoporosis - Osteopenia "Trace minerals are necessary for the transport and absorption of calcium ..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Gonads Related Topic "...Nutritional needs for the gonads vary somewhat, but all require plenty of essential fatty acids, vitamins C, E and B-complex, the minerals calcium , magnesium, selenium, iron and zinc..." Heartburn / GERD / Acid Reflux The Condition "...Drugs That Increase the Risk for GERD A number of drugs can cause the LES to relax and function poorly including calcium channel blockers, anti-cholinergics, beta- and alpha-adrenergic agonists, dopamine, sedatives, and common pain relievers..." Heat Exhaustion The Condition "...Sweat not only contains substantial amounts of sodium (1gm per liter), but also modest amounts of potassium and small amounts of minerals such as iron and calcium ..." Heel Pain The Condition "...Heel spurs develop as an abnormal growth in the heel bone due to calcium deposits that form when the plantar fascia pulls away from the heel..." Heel Spurs Related Topic "...If small fibers of this connective tissue begin to tear away from the heel bone, the body responds by depositing calcium in an attempt to "glue" the detached fibers back on to the heel..." Hemochromatosis (Iron overload) The Condition "...Occasionally, acute episodes of an inflammatory arthritis occur; some of these episodes are caused by deposits of calcium ..." High/Increased Fat Diet As A Treatment "...Those on an overly restrictive diet typically suffer deficits in several important dietary components, such as calcium and iron..." Hives Recommendation Conventional Drug Use "...Others include doxepin, dapsone, attenuated androgens, calcium antagonists, antimalarials, gold and methotrexate..." Honey As A Treatment "...Function; Reasons for Use: Honey is composed of sugars such as glucose and fructose, and minerals such as magnesium, potassium, calcium , sodium chlorine, sulphur, iron and phosphate..." Horsetail Grass As A Treatment "...Rich in calcium ..." Hot Drinks As A Treatment "...Add fresh lemon for vitamin C or warmed nonfat milk (or fortified soy milk) for calcium ..." HydroxyCitric Acid As A Treatment "...This ingredient has been made popular by the tradename CitriMax®, which is a calcium salt of HCA standardized to 50 or 60% HCA..." Hypercalcemia Related Topic "Excess calcium in the blood..." Hyperparathyroidism The Condition "...The parathyroid glands secrete parathyroid hormone (PTH), a substance that helps maintain the correct balance of calcium and phosphorous in the body..." Recommendation Homeopathic Remedies "A homeopathic doctor may use Calcarea carbonica ( calcium carbonate) or Calcarea phosphorica (calcium phosphate) to treat problems related to calcium levels..." Recommendation Surgery "...Some 1-5% develop chronic low calcium levels, which may require treatment with calcium and/or vitamin D..." Hypertension (High Blood Pressure) The Condition "...PHF levels can be tested, and elevated levels could serve to predict salt sensitivity, and calcium treatment responsiveness..." Recommendation Magnesium "...When magnesium levels are low, more calcium flows into the vascular muscle cells, which contracts them - leading to tighter vessels and higher blood pressure..." Hyperthyroidism Recommendation Dairy Products Avoidance "One doctor reports that taking calcium without magnesium is one of the worst things you can do if you have hyperthyroidism because this increases any magnesium deficiency and increases the heart rate and likelihood of arrhythmia..." Hypocalcemia Related Topic "Abnormally low calcium levels in the blood..." Hypotension (Low Blood Pressure) The Condition "...This can be caused by any of the following ...  Drug-induced, including alcohol toxicity, anesthesia, antianxiety agents, antihypertensives, calcium channel blockers, diuretics, general anesthetics, antiarrhythmics, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, narcotic analgesics, tranquilizers, vasodilators..." Hypothyroidism The Condition "...Taking too much thyroid hormone will, of course, speed up metabolism and can cause rapid or irregular heart rate and loss of calcium from the bone..." IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome) Recommendation Vitamin B12 (Cobalamine) "Vitamins B12, A, D, E and K along with calcium and a lactose-free diet are often recommended by clinicians treating IBS..." Inositol Related Topic "...Involved in calcium mobilization..." Intestinal Malabsorption Syndrome The Condition "...Decreased serum levels of total protein, albumin, y-globulin, iron, folate, vitamin B12, calcium , phosphorous, magnesium, and cholesterol result from impaired intestinal absorption..." IP6 - Inositol Hexaphosphate As A Treatment "...It is calcium binding, thus preventing formation of the most common type of kidney stone (calcium oxibate)..." Iron As A Treatment "...An excess of calcium or intestinal parasites such as hookworm is believed to reduce absorption of iron..." Iron Requirement Our Question about level of coffee consumption "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Kelp As A Treatment "...Rich in iodine, iron, copper, magnesium and calcium , kelp is also an excellent source of many trace minerals..." Kidney Cancer The Condition "...sometimes caused by cancerous tumors in the kidney that trigger the release of erythropoitin [EPO], a hormone that increases red blood cell production in bone marrow) Hypercalcemia (high blood calcium levels) and elevated liver enzymes..." Kidney Stones (Urolithiasis) The Condition "...Kidney stones may contain various forms of salts - the most common is calcium in combination with either phosphate or oxalate..." Our Question about diuretic use "Excessive intake of diuretics may give rise to excess calcium in the urine..." Relationship to Excess Protein Consumption "High protein intakes may lead to loss of calcium , leading in turn to the development of kidney stones..." Relationship to Hyperparathyroidism "Increased calcium and phosphorous excretion in the urine may cause kidney stones..." Recommendation against Calcium "High levels of urinary calcium , due to an excess of non-absorbable calcium being consumed, can cause crystallization and subsequent stone formation..." Recommendation Oxalate Avoidance "Those prone to getting calcium oxalate stones are advised to avoid the consumption of foods high in oxalates..." Recommendation Dairy Products Avoidance "Those with a tendency to form calcium stones may want to avoid foods rich in calcium, such as dairy products..." Recommendation Magnesium "By increasing calcium solubility (especially in the urine) and reducing calcium absorption, magnesium can help prevent kidney stones, especially those composed of calcium oxalate..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "...People who consumed caffeine in amounts equal to two cups of coffee showed elevated levels of calcium in their urine, which can increase the risk of developing stones, especially for people prone to stones..." Lactose Intolerance The Condition "...metabolism of dietary protein causes increased urinary excretion of calcium ..." Laxative/Enema Overuse The Condition "...Regular use of some laxatives (Correctol, Ex-Lax, Feen-a-Mint) may interfere with your body's absorption of vitamin D and calcium ; this can weaken the bones..." Leg Cramps At Night The Condition "...Low levels of certain minerals known as electrolytes - magnesium, potassium, calcium and sodium - have long been linked to leg cramps..." Liver Detoxification Phase II Support As A Treatment "...However, even simple nutrients like the B-vitamins, calcium , and trace minerals are critical in the elimination of heavy metals and other toxic compounds from the body..." L-Taurine As A Treatment "...Function; What It Is Used For: Taurine has been shown to promote sarcolemma Ca-ATPase activity, as well as Na/Ca cotransport enzyme which helps to remove calcium from the interior of the cell and facilitates the relaxation of the heart muscle during diastole..." Magnesium As A Treatment "...As with calcium , the bones act as a reservoir for magnesium in times of need..." Related Topic "...Magnesium is closely related to calcium and phosphorus in body function..." Magnesium Requirement The Condition "...About half of your body's magnesium stores are found inside cells of body tissues and organs, and half are combined with calcium and phosphorus in bone..." Our Question about your current menstrual status "Postmenopausal women generally need more calcium and magnesium..." Magnesium Toxicity Relationship to Calcium Requirement " Calcium and magnesium levels need to be maintained in balance since they have an antagonistic relationship..." Male Hair Loss Relationship to Manganese Requirement "...Eighteen patients showed considerable problems with calcium absorption, and twelve patients had problems with their zinc metabolism..." Manganese As A Treatment "...As a dietary mineral it is less well understood than calcium and magnesium, as far as its absorption and transport dynamics..." Manganese Requirement The Condition "...Treatment and Prevention: Zinc, iron and calcium supplementation have an antagonistic effect on manganese absorption..." Metabolic Diet Type The Condition "...Nutrients to Emphasize: Calcium , Iodine, Phosphorus, Zinc, Sulfur, Choline, Inositol, Lysine, Bioflavonoids, Vitamins A, B5, and B12..." Meyer's Cocktail As A Treatment "...Source: It contains magnesium chloride hexahydrate (5cc given), calcium gluconate (2..." Multiple Mineral Supplementation As A Treatment "...For example, too much zinc can deplete the body of copper, while excessive calcium intake can affect magnesium absorption..." Multiple Myeloma The Condition "...Increased calcium in the blood (hypercalcemia) overworks the kidneys and can cause a variety of symptoms, including loss of appetite, fatigue, muscle weakness, restlessness, difficulty in thinking or..." Multiple Sclerosis Recommendation Calcium-2AEP " Calcium EAP protects the myelin sheath from damage by an autoimmune response..." Multiple Vitamin Need The Condition "...why settle for less with a marginal nutrient status? Treatment and Prevention: Select populations will benefit from specific supplementation as in the following examples ...  A 1989 study found calcium , magnesium, iron and manganese were low in teenage girls..." Our Question about level of coffee consumption "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Multiple Vitamin Supplement As A Treatment "...If you are trying to increase your calcium or magnesium intake, you will probably have to take extra supplements of these nutrients since most multiples contain low amounts..." Muscle Cramps / Twitching The Condition "...Treatment and Prevention: Some people have found relief in treating their twitching with mineral supplements (such as potassium or calcium ), hot packs, massage, or drinking a few glasses of tonic water for the quinine..." Relationship to Effects of a Low Carbohydrate Diet "...Along with the toxins created by low-carbohydrate diets, one’s kidneys also flush out critical electrolytes such as calcium , magnesium and potassium, which may result in muscle cramps or worse..." Relationship to Dehydration "Excess sweating or dehydration can deplete minerals in the body - minerals that are important for good muscle function, such as sodium, potassium, calcium , magnesium and phosphorus..." Myocarditis Recommendation Calcium-2AEP "...Hans Nieper, in Germany, developed Calcium EAP..." Need For Routine Preventative Health Measures The Condition "...Important preventable risk factors can be identified through monitoring various blood components such as albumin, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin/total, blood urea nitrogen, calcium and phosphorus, cholesterol, coronary risk factor, creatinine, GGT/LDH, globulin and glucose..." Nephrotic Syndrome Our Question about the strength of your scalp hairs "...Bone becomes weak, and the body begins to lose other important nutrients (sugar, potassium, calcium )..." Olive Leaf Extract As A Treatment "... Calcium elenolate, the leaf's most active ingredient, is an extraordinary effective killer of viruses and bacteria..." Osteoarthritis Recommendation Boron "...6] Boron influences calcium and magnesium metabolism, possibly through the parathyroid gland..." Osteoporosis - Osteopenia The Condition "... Calcium ..." Our Question about current alcohol consumption "Alcohol interferes with the body's absorption of calcium ..." Relationship to Acidosis "Acidic diets (high in protein and refined food) will cause bone calcium leaching in order to maintain your blood pH balance..." Recommendation Dairy Products Avoidance "...Harvard University's landmark Nurses' Health Study, which followed 78,000 women over a 12-year period, found that the women who consumed the most calcium from dairy foods broke more bones than those who rarely drank milk..." Recommendation Potassium "Moderate potassium supplementation improves calcium balance in post-menopausal women..." Recommendation Reduced Protein Diet "...They also found that African Americans, who consume on average more than 1,000mg of calcium per day, are nine times more likely to experience hip fractures than are South African blacks, whose daily calcium intake is only 196mg..." Recommendation Salt Intake Reduction "Sodium (salt) tends to leach calcium out of the bones..." Recommendation Sugars Avoidance / Reduction "Avoiding factors that encourage bone loss can be as just as important as calcium intake..." Recommendation Vitamin K "...New research has shown that this little known vitamin is the key to calcium balance in the body..." Recommendation Magnesium "You can reverse bone loss and regain bone mass with calcium , magnesium, vitamin D, and vitamin K..." Recommendation Calcium "As you age, the need for absorbable calcium , in conjunction with other essential minerals and vitamins, can be increased..." Recommendation Alcohol Avoidance "Alcohol is toxic to the cells that form bones and inhibits the absorption of calcium ..." Recommendation Plant-Based Nutrition "..." A 1994 report in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition showed that when volunteers are switched from a typical American diet to a diet eliminating animal proteins, calcium losses were reduced to less than half of baseline values..." Oxalic Acid Related Topic "A substance that when joined with calcium in the body forms insoluble salts and hinders iron absorption from food..." Painful Menstruation (Dysmenorrhea) Recommendation Magnesium "Menstrual cramps, irritability, fatigue, depression, and water retention have been lessened with magnesium, usually given along with calcium and often with vitamin B6..." Pancreas Related Topic "...Research indicates that chromium vitamins C, E, B-complex, calcium , magnesium and potassium are especially important..." Pancreatitis The Condition "...Ultrasound, CT scans and other diagnostic imaging tools can also detect physical problems associated with chronic inflammation, including calcification of the pancreatic tissue ( calcium deposits may build up in the gland, causing tissues to harden)..." Parathyroid Related Topic "...Hormones from the parathyroid glands help control calcium and phosphorous levels in the body..." Parathyroid Hormone Related Topic "A hormone released by the parathyroid glands that acts to keep a constant level of calcium in body tissues..." Peyronie's Disease The Condition "...When the disease lasts for years, the plaque often becomes a tough fibrous tissue, and calcium deposits may form..." Phosphorus As A Treatment "...Excessively high levels of phosphorus in the blood, although rare, can combine with calcium and deposit in soft tissues like muscle..." Related Topic "...Combined with calcium , it gives strength and rigidity to the bones and teeth..." Plant-Based Nutrition As A Treatment "...Following a vegan diet has been made easier in recent years since vegetarian products fortified with calcium , vitamin D, and vitamin B12 are available in most food stores: vegetarian hot dogs, burgers, fortified soy and rice milks, vegetarian deli slices, and other meat analogs are readily..." Polymyositis The Condition "...drug toxins (such as alcohol, cocaine, steroids and lovistatin), metabolic disorders (where muscle cells are unable to process chemicals normally), hormone disorders (such as abnormal thyroid, calcium , and magnesium conditions), and infectious diseases (such as influenza virus, AIDS, streptococcus and Lyme bacteria, pork tapeworm and schistosomiasis)..." Recommendation Conventional Drug Use "...Patients with calcium deposits (calcinosis) from dermatomyositis can sometimes benefit by taking diltiazem (Cardizem) to shrink the size of the calcium deposits..." Poor Bone Health The Condition "...While it occurs to us to think about bone loss as we age, the majority of our youth today are deficient in calcium and bone building nutrients..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Caffeine leaches calcium from the bones..." Recommendation Soft Drink Avoidance "Carbonated drinks leach calcium from the bones..." Recommendation Alcohol Avoidance "Alcohol leaches calcium from the bones..." Recommendation Salt Intake Reduction "Because urinary sodium excretion and urinary calcium excretion occur together in the kidneys, increasing the level of dietary sodium triggers urinary calcium losses [Massey and Whiting, 1996]..." Recommendation Calcium " Calcium is essential for healthy bones..." Recommendation Increased Fruit/Vegetable Consumption "...These foods are great sources of bone-building nutrients like calcium and vitamin K..." Potassium As A Treatment "...It is used to regulate sodium, calcium , as well as a host of other nutrients..." Potassium Need The Condition "...proper body water balance Stimulating insulin production Maintaining digestive enzyme function and efficiency Maintaining optimal nerve and muscle function Relaxing muscle contraction in balance to calcium , which induces contraction..." Pregnancy-Related Issues The Condition "...1178­82] Calcium & Vitamin D for Bones..." Recommendation Calcium "Children of mothers who took calcium during pregnancy were still reaping the benefits seven years later in one Argentinian study..." Premenstrual Syndrome Recommendation Magnesium "Menstrual cramps, irritability, fatigue, depression and water retention have been lessened by taking supplemental magnesium, usually given along with calcium and often with vitamin B6..." Premenstrual Syndrome PMS D (Depression) Recommendation Magnesium "...Menstrual cramps, irritability, fatigue, depression and water retention have been lessened with magnesium, usually given along with calcium and often with vitamin B6..." Probiotics As A Treatment "...Aid absorption of minerals, especially calcium , due to increased intestinal acidity..." Propolis As A Treatment "...It also contains minerals and trace elements such as calcium , magnesium, iron, zinc, silica, potassium, phosphorous, manganese, cobalt and copper..." Prostate Cancer Recommendation Vitamin D "In patients with advanced hormone refractory prostate cancer with bone metastases, 2000 IU of vitamin D with 500mg of calcium per day for three months was found to reduce bone pain, increase muscle strength, and improve the quality of life..." Psoriasis Recommendation Vitamin D "...for many years to improve some of the important abnormalities present in psoriasis skin, but ingestion of even only slightly above the daily recommended amount of Vitamin D can lead to problems with calcium metabolism in the body (possible kidney stones and irregular heart beats)..." Raynaud's Phenomenon The Condition "...There are a number of options for treating more severe Raynaud's, such as calcium channel blockers, vasodilators, or infusions of Iloprost..." Restless Leg Syndrome Recommendation Essential Fatty Acids "If not caused by circulatory blockage, simply get more calcium and oxygen to your leg muscles by taking extra essential fatty acids, a specific form of vitamin E called Vitamin E2 (from Standard Process Labs, for example), and Calcium Lactate..." Rheumatoid Arthritis Recommendation Boron "...It does influence calcium and magnesium metabolism, and this is possibly through the parathyroid gland..." Seizure Disorder Recommendation High/Increased Fat Diet "...The diet is deficient in many vitamins and in calcium , so a good (carbohydrate-free) vitamin supplement is important..." Silicon / Silica As A Treatment "...Silicon is known for its ability to combine with Calcium , Potassium, and Phosphorus to build strong bones, nails, and teeth..." Stevia As A Treatment "...Stevia also contains protein, fibers, carbohydrates, phosphorus, iron, calcium , potassium, sodium, magnesium, rutin (flavonoid), zinc, vitamin C and vitamin A..." Stress The Condition "...An excess of cortisol can lead to a progressive loss of protein, muscle weakness, atrophy, and loss of bone mass through increased calcium excretion and lower calcium absorption..." Susceptibility To Cavities The Condition "...Dental caries is a dynamic process since periods of demineralization alternate with periods of remineralization through the action of fluoride, calcium and phosphorous contained in oral fluids..." Recommendation Ozone / Oxidative Therapy "...Human saliva is "supersaturated" with calcium and phosphates, which allow teeth to heal and cavities to close..." Tapeworm Infection The Condition "...Furthermore, if the body kills the parasites, calcium salts are laid down in their place, creating tiny pebbles in the soft tissue..." Tendonitis The Condition "...Tendonitis can be associated with a calcium deposit, which can cause inflammation..." Test Serum Uric Acid Levels As A Treatment "...Uric acid crystals can also promote the formation of calcium oxalate stones, acting as "seed crystals" (heterogeneous nucleation..." Tetany Related Topic "A condition of physiologic calcium imbalance marked by tonic spasm of muscles and often associated with deficient parathyroid secretion..." Tonsil Stones The Condition "Alternative Names: Tonsillolith, Tonsil Stone Tonsil stones are irregularly-shaped, whitish-yellow, very foul-smelling globs of calcium , collagen, mucus and bacteria that get caught in the back of the throat..." Urinalysis As A Treatment "...Crystals: Common crystals seen even in healthy patients include calcium oxalate, triple phosphate crystals and amorphous phosphates..." Vertigo The Condition "...BPPV is caused by calcium carbonate crystals (octonia) moving out of position into the semicircular canals in the inner ear..." Recommendation Manipulation "In cases of BPPV ( calcium carbonate crystals moving into the inner ear), Dr..." Vinegar As A Treatment "...Cider vinegar contains many other nutrients, such as beta-carotene, magnesium, calcium , riboflavin and thiamin; vitamins B6, C and E; and fruit acids and pectin..." Vinpocetine As A Treatment "...Vinpocetine inhibits an enzyme called phosphodiesterase type 1 (PDE1) while reducing intracellular calcium levels, both of which normally cause smooth muscle in blood vessels to contract and narrow the diameter of the vessels..." Vitamin B5 (Pantothenic Acid) As A Treatment "Vitamin B5 (also calcium pantothenate) is an antioxidant nutrient that helps the body inhibit the formation of damaging free radicals..." Vitamin B-Complex Requirement Our Question about level of coffee consumption "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Vitamin C Related Topic "...When bound to other nutrients, for example calcium , it would be referred to as "calcium ascorbate"..." Vitamin C Requirement Our Question about level of coffee consumption "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Vitamin D As A Treatment "...It promotes calcium absorption for proper heart muscle function..." Related Topic "...Regulates the amount of calcium and phosphorus in the blood by improving their absorption and utilization..." Vitamin D Requirement The Condition "...The purpose of 1,25-diOH-D in the body is to keep the concentration of calcium at a constant level in the bloodstream..." Recommendation Vitamin D "...Measurements of 25-OH-D, calcium , and parathyroid hormone should be obtained after the treatment period to make sure the therapy did, in fact, result in normal blood values..." Vitamin E Requirement Our Question about removal of a portion of small bowel "Ileal resection can lead to malabsorption of both divalent cations (such as calcium and magnesium) and fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and vitamin K..." Vulvodynia / Vestibulitis Recommendation Oxalate Avoidance "...Restrict or limit milk or dairy products to reduce the amount of calcium oxalate in the body..." Weakened Immune System The Condition "...For example, women need extra calcium ..." Weight Loss As A Treatment "...The reduction in vitamin D and calcium absorption can cause osteoporosis and other bone disease..." Zeolites As A Treatment "...This is manifested by trapping of mercury, uranium, arsenic, and cadmium before lighter minerals are captured (magnesium, calcium , lead)..." Zinc As A Treatment "...114] Copper, calcium , iron and phytates taken in large doses can interfere with (inhibit) zinc absorption and induce a deficiency, especially in pregnant women..." Zinc Requirement The Condition "...Whilst some of these have a well-known, identifiable function familiar to us, such as calcium for bone strength and iron for healthy red blood cells, zinc has no single clear action but instead performs a number of important functions in the body..." Our Question about level of coffee consumption "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." Recommendation Caffeine/Coffee Avoidance "Research has shown that drinking coffee causes a significant loss of several vitamins and minerals, including vitamins B and C, calcium , iron, and zinc..." 