Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 24 Aug 2010 20:07:06 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "b14d25edc743cb1:74086"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 09:11:34 GMT
Connection: close

Fee Schedule Home About Me Hypnotherapy FAQs Fees What is Hypnotherapy Misconceptions Anxiety/Panic Attacks Co-Dependency Communication Skills Couples Insecure Attachment Weight Mastery Privacy Fee Schedule Please contact me for current rates. Hours of operation are 
            Monday through Friday 10 A.M. to 7 P.M. excluding holidays. For those who live 
            outside of Spokane and would be having telephone appointments, there 
            are forms, such as the disclosure statement (a Washington state 
            requirement) and my intake forms that I would mail or fax to you and 
            need the completed and signed forms back prior to our first session. 
            Equipment and setting needed for telephone clients are the 
            following: either a good speaker phone or ear piece with good 
            reception for hypnosis and a quiet, uninterrupted environment. If 
            you are hoping to use insurance, be advised that insurance companies 
            do not pay for telephone appointments, with the exception of crisis 
            calls. Kathy Jo will be able to 
            let you know if a call, made during the an intended face to face 
            scheduled appointment time or an improptu emergent call, qualifies 
            as a 'crisis call.' Please call me to see 
            how I may get creative in allowing you to have long distance 
            sessions without using your insurance! You never know how creative 
            we can be until we try! I have an insurance supervisor that I bill most insurance through. I 
            would be happy to discuss that with you over the phone. I prefer 85 minutes for 
            the first session. That allows clients to share all they wish and 
            still have time to mutually develop a plan of care. Therefore, I 
            offer clients their first session at the price of a 50 min session. What’s my responsibility 
            if I choose to use my mental health benefits of my health insurance? I recommend that you get the answers to the following five questions 
            (preferably thru your plan’s web site or most recent plan booklet 
            knowing that the telephone service advice is not legally binding to 
            the insurance company): How many outpatient mental health visits do I get in a benefit 
              year? What does my insurance 
              benefit year run (Ex: May-April, Jan-Dec)? Do I have a deductible 
              before my benefits kick in? Does my plan require 
              my primary doctor to write a referral? Does my plan require 
              me to fax or send the referral in to my insurance company in order 
              to get a file claim # to be used when the insurance company is 
              billed? Many people ask me how 
            many sessions are needed for their particular issue(s). That is a 
            reasonable question and best answered when I have done an intake 
            first session appointment. My smoking cessation 
            clients have quit in generally 6-9 sessions. My weight mastery or 
            eating mastery clients often see the value of several spaced out 
            over the year as they master each step of the plan before attempting 
            to incorporate the next new phases in the program. Clients wishing 
            to access a particular answer from their memory often take 3 
            sessions. Thank you for your interest in 
            hypnotherapy and Heartfelt Hypnosis.  I welcome your call. Please 
            call me now at (509) 448-5660. By appointment only. 5919 S. Cook, Spokane, WA 99223-6919 Home | About Me | FAQs | Fees | What is Hypnotherapy | Misconceptions 
      About Hypnotherapy Anxiety/Panic Attacks | Co-Dependency | Communication Skills | Couples | Weight Mastery Copyright ©