
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 12:52:15 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cranberry & Corn Silk - Encapsulated Herbal Extracts - Combo Herbs - Viable Herbal Solutions Home Contact Us Wholesale Search Site Login View Shopping Cart Skip to Main Content » HEALTH BLENDS SINGLE HERBS COMBO HERBS FDA INFO ABOUT US FAQ REWARD POINTS March means St. Patrick’s Day , and most everybody loves to don some green finery and celebrate the event. Let’s celebrate with one of nature’s finest “green grasses” – BARLEY GRASS . Barley has been an exceptionally nourishing staple in the human diet for thousands of years, providing a powerhouse of essential vitamins, amino acids, minerals, antioxidants and many more nutrients that your body needs every single day. Reflecting its rich chlorophyll content , Barley Grass is a great support for digestive and immune system health and naturally healthy pH balance - as well as a natural “green” tonic to support healthy skin, hair and nails . Viable Herbal Solutions is offering Barley Grass at a special 15% discount to you for the entire month of MARCH, 2012. Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with nature’s finest green grass! Barley Grass is right here at your fingertips. Order yours now! My Cart You have 0 items in your cart Recently Viewed Damiana / Korean Ginseng Maca Root / Muirapauma Black Walnut Hull / Pumpkin Seed Ginger Root / Red Raspberry Bacopa Monnieri / Ginkgo Biloba Newsletter Sign up for our newsletter: Subscribe Home / Cranberry / Corn Silk Cranberry / Corn Silk SKU: C760 Email to a Friend This blend is formulated to promote healthy urinary tract function. Cranberry has a long history of use as a natural way to promote urinary tract health. But it's difficult to drink enough Cranberry juice each day to get the benefits. Plus, commercially prepared Cranberry juice is high in sugar and full of empty calories. Luckily, a variety of Cranberry alternatives are available to make it healthy and easy to care for your urinary health. Cornsilk is helpful for any irritation of the urinary system. Corn Silk is used for renal problems in children, and also as a urinary demulcent combined with other herbs in the treatment of cystitis, urethritis, and prostatitis. Corn Silk was used traditionally as a mild diuretic. Chinese research indicates that Corn Silk reduces hypertension and reduces blood clotting time. Item # C760: Cranberry / Corn Silk 60 Capsules $14.80 Add to Cart 90 Capsules $19.98 Add to Cart 450 Capsules $74.93 Add to Cart 700 Capsules $108.64 Add to Cart 1150 Capsules $167.31 Add to Cart 1400 Capsules $187.38 Add to Cart Cranberry is also known by the names Marshwort and Fenne Berry. Cranberry is native to North America, and includes the species Vaccinium macrocarpon, which is used interchangeably with Vaccinium oxycoccus. For hundreds of years, Cranberries have been used to promote urinary tract health. Cranberries contain substances which alter the bacteria population in urine. The substances found in Cranberries seem to make harmful bacteria less likely to cling to the surface of cells in the urinary tract. Cranberry inhibits the adhesion of bacteria (often E. coli)  to the urinary tract, perhaps due to a polymer contained in the plant. This allows the bacteria to be eliminated. The benzoic acid in the berries works as a natural preservative. Cranberry has been used to prevent kidney stones and "bladder gravel" as well as to remove toxins from the blood. Cranberry has long been recommended for persons with recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs). Cranberry may be used not only to prevent urinary tract infections, but also to eliminate odors associated with incontinence. Other benefits of Cranberry are to reduce inflammation and pain and to help improve digestion. A daily dose of Cranberry typically contains as much anthocyanidins as 100 mg of grape seed extract, with 50 mg magnesium (12% of the U.S. RDA for magnesium) and 12.8 mg of potassium. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 153 elderly women (mean age, 78.5 years)  investigated the effectiveness of consuming 300ml per day of a standard Cranberry beverage on bacteriuria and pyuria. It found that, among women who had the infection in one month and were on Cranberry beverage, their odds of having the infection in the next month were only 27% of the odds in the control group. The experimental group's odds of having bacteruria with pyuria at all were only 42% of the odds in the control group. Corn Silk is the silky tassel inside the corn husk - not often considered a food, but it is highly regarded in herbology as a valuable support for the urinary system. Corn is indigenous to Central America, but is now widely cultivated elsewhere. The genus name Zea  means "cause of life", and the species name "mays" means "mother"'. Corn Silk has been used in conditions of high uric acid such as gout and some types of arthritis. It helps to reduce conditions of painful swelling, and is used for a wide range of genito-urinary complaints. Corn Silk is often combined with herbs that have more antiseptic qualities. Even though it is a diuretic, Corn Silk can also benefit frequent urination conditions by soothing bladder irritation. Chinese research indicates that Corn Silk reduces hypertension and reduces blood clotting time. Derived from the dried silky tassels found inside the husks of corn, Corn Silk contains iron, silica, potassium and vitamins B, C and K. It also contains moderate amounts of zinc, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus. It's key constituents are considered to be maizenic acid, fixed oil, resin and mucilage. Corn Silk has been used to soothe irritation, to the kidneys and bladder, often caused by burning and painful urination. Corn Silk alleviates the irritation of the bladder and urinary tract by coating the membranes lining the urinary system walls. Corn Silk may also alleviate prostate disorders including difficulty in the beginning of urination. Corn Silk has also been known to reduce the formation of sediments in the kidneys, relieve inflammation caused by urinary tract problems and help reduce water retention in the body. Recommended Dosage: Take two (2) capsules, two (2) to three (3) times each day with water at mealtimes. Contraindications: This product has no known warnings or contraindications. Capsule Information: Our Absinthe supplements are encapsulated in 100% Gluten-free, Vegetable Cellulose, Certified Kosher , size "00" Capsules. (click here for size comparison) Each capsule contains approximately 600 mgs. Special Note: If any medical terms on our website are confusing or unknown, we have compiled a small dictionary of terms for you. Click here for our Definitions, and go directly to the word in question for further information. Disclaimer: The information presented herein by Viable Herbal Solutions is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult with your own health care provider. Viable Herbal Solutions (866) 437-3122 8am - 5pm EST, M-F. Customer Service Shipping Policies Returns & Exchanges Privacy Policy Ordering Information Reward Program Viable Herbal About Us Help & Info FAQ - Questions My Account Follow Us Facebook Twitter StumbleUpon © Copyright 2010 Viable Herbal Solutions. All rights res