
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 03:52:37 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lower Back Pain Relief - Cause of Low Back Pain and Back Pain Remedy Supplement Reviews | Fat Burners & Weight Loss | Bodybuilding Guides | Training & Fitness | Health & Nutrition | Diet & Fitness Articles | User Reviews | Forums Articles: Featured 
                  Authors | Exercising 
                  & Training | Diet 
                  & Weight Loss | Health 
                  & Nutrition | Motivation & Success | Sports Supplements Health 
            and Nutrition articles 5 
            Steps to Back Pain Relief 5 
                    Keys to Healthy Eating - 1 5 
                    Keys to Healthy Eating - 2 7 Back Pain Mistakes 7 
                    Healthy Sleeping Habits 10 Foods that Reduce Inflammation 10 
                    Tips for Better Sleep 10 Tips to Sleep Better Acne Treatment & Diet Acne Treatment Medicine OTC Arthritis 
                    Treatment - Naturally Back Pain 
                    Information Back 
                    Pain - Muscle Imbalance Back Pain & Poor Posture Back 
                    Pain Relief Back 
                    Pain Surgery Not the Answer Back Pain and Sex Back 
                    Pain Treatment Back and Neck Pain Back Stretch for Back Health Back Surgery for Herniated Disc Blood Sugar and Cancer Bodybuilders 
                    & Protein - 1 Bodybuilders 
                    & Protein - 2 Bodybuilders 
                    & Protein - 3 Bodybuilding 
                    and Back Pain Bodybuilding 
                    and Back Pain - 2 Bodybuilding 
                    and Back Pain - 3 Bodybuilding 
                    and Back Pain - 4 Bodybuilding 
                    and Back Pain - 5 Bodybuilding Nutrition Boost 
                    Immune System Naturally - 1 Boost 
                    Immune System Naturally - 2 Bread - 
                    All About Bread Cause 
                    of Lower Back Pain Calorie 
                    Density & Musclar Immensity Carbohydrates, 
                    Diet and Nutrition Chronic 
                    Pain from Food Additives Cortisol, 
                    Stress and Body Fat - 1 Cortisol, 
                    Stress and Body Fat - 2 Degenerative 
                    Disc Disease Diet 
                    and Nutrition Habits Diet & Nutrition Intake Ratios Diet Timing For Muscle Growth Eating 
                    Too Much Protein Egg White Protein Ending Chronic Back Pain Exercise 
                    to Strengthen Bone & Joints Fatty 
                    Acid - Good Fat, Bad Fat Fibromyalgia Pain & Treatment Fountain of Youth Gain 
                    Lean Body Weight - 1 Gain 
                    Lean Body Weight - 2 Gain 
                    Lean Body Weight - 3 Good 
                    Fats Prevent Chronic Disease Healing 
                    Power of Food Healthy Nutrition Tips Healthy Skin & Physcial Fitness Healthier Skin Care Health 
                    Fitness is Not 12 Week Prog Herniated 
                    Discs Herniated Disc Treatment & Symptom Herniated Lumbar Disk Treatment High Blood Pressure & Bodybuidling Hormones 
                    in Whey Protein How to Fix a Herniated Disc Invest 
                    In Your Health Lactose 
                    Intolerant Leg Length Discrepancy Long Last Back Pain Relief - 1 Long Last Back Pain Relief - 2 Male 
                    Pattern Baldness Hair Loss 1 Male 
                    Pattern Baldness Hair Loss 2 Male 
                    Pattern Baldness Hair Loss 3 Mechanical 
                    Lower Back Pain Mis-Leading Marketing Phrases Neck Pain No Such 
                    Thing as Cheating Nutrition Or Training? Omega 3 Fatty Acid Omega 
                        3 Fish Oil Supplement Omega 3 & 
                Chronic Fatique Syndrome Omega 3 Fish 
                        Oil - Evidence Organic Food & Bodybuilding Paleolithic Diet - Caveman Diet Physical Exercise for Seniors Pistachio Nuts Snack Poor Posture & Back Pain Prevent Deep Acne Scars Pre Workout Meal Drink Pre and Post Workout Nutrition Probiotics Health Benefits Proper Workout Diet & Nutrition Prolotherapy Back Pain Treatment Protective Skin Barrier Real 
                    Cause of Back Pain Recipe for Healthy Bones Reduce Back Pain - 7 Steps Rolfing for Pain Relief Sarcopenia Sacro Iliac Joint Pain Sciatica Exercise & Treatment Sex, Testosterone, and Muscle Shoulder Rehab Exercise Solution to Piriformis Syndrome Stimulate 
                    Human Growth Hormone Super Food & Health Piriformis 
                    Syndrom - Sciatic Pain Protein 
                    Supplements vs Food Relax 
                    and Meditate for Better Health Risk 
                    of Contracting Diabetes Scoliosis Treatment Spinal 
                    Stenosis Treatment Supplement 
                    Savvy Theory 
                    of Nutrition The 
                    Skinny On Salt Tips to Sleep Better Trigger Point Therapy Vegetarian Diets for Athletes Understanding 
                    Back Pain by Carol Uterine Fibroids Treatment Whole Eggs Low 
                    Back Pain - What Causes Lower Back Pain? by Jesse Cannone , 
                      CFT, CPRS + Steve Hefferon, CMT Lower back pain is one of the most 
                          common ailments people suffer from and approximately 
                          8 out of 10 people will deal with back pain at some 
                          point in their life. That’s a lot of people… 
                    are you one of them? Out of all of the various forms 
                    of back pain, lower back pain is by far the most common 
                    and there’s a good explanation for this. Any 
                    idea why? It’s not car accidents, it’s 
                    not work-related injuries, and it’s not a lack 
                    of prescription medications either. Lack of movement 
                    and use is the number one cause of back pain! I bet your orthopedic specialist 
                    or chiropractor didn’t tell you that, did they? It’s the lack of movement 
                    in various muscles over years that leads to muscle 
                    imbalances and uneven wear and tear on your body, 
                    especially the spine. For example, how many times 
                    a day are you bending, leaning, or twisting? Here’s what the typical person’s 
                    day is like: - Wake up - Eat breakfast (hopefully) - Drive or ride to work - Sit at desk - Eat lunch - Sit at desk some more - Drive or ride home - Eat dinner - Sit on couch and watch television - Go to bed Notice the trend here? That’s 
                    an awful lot of sitting and not moving. Well, this 
                    is what leads to serious muscle imbalances and so 
                    what do we do, we go to the gym and perform exercises 
                    that only make the imbalances worse! Back Pain Remedy and Treatment The key to eliminating back pain 
                    (nearly any ache, pain, or injury for that matter) 
                    is to identify the muscle imbalances that are pulling 
                    the spine, bones, and joints out of place and then 
                    stretch the tight muscles while strengthening the 
                    weak muscles. How do I know this? Well, as certified 
                    personal fitness trainer and post-rehabilitation specialist, 
                    I have worked with hundreds of individuals with back 
                    pain and the conditions that ranged from sciatic pain, 
                    to bulging discs, to spinal fusion, and others. In 
                    working with these individuals I discovered some startling 
                  facts. 1. Many people who seek professional 
                              help are often mis-diagnosed and end up following 
                              a treatment plan that fails to eliminate the cause 
                              of their back pain. 2. Nearly all of the individuals 
                              I worked with were able to eliminate their back pain, 
                              or significantly improve their condition even though 
                              all of the traditional treatments failed them (physically 
                              therapy, chiropractic care, cortisone injections, 
                              anti-inflammatory medications, surgery, etc). Even more amazing is the fact that 
                              most of these individuals were able to eliminate their 
                              back pain in a matter or days or weeks simply by performing 
                              a handful of exercises and stretches! These weren’t 
                              your basic exercises or the standard back stretches 
                              and stomach exercises most “experts” recommend 
                              – these were specific exercises and stretches 
                              prescribed based on the individual. Many of these people had suffered 
                            for years and years with aches, pains, and stiffness 
                            and lived inactive lives because of their back pain. 3. Most treatment plans offered 
                            only address the symptoms and don’t address 
                            the cause, which usually delivers just temporary relief 
                          for the individual. In addition to helping hundreds 
                            of others eliminate back pain, I also have had personal 
                            experiences with back pain and other various conditions 
                            such as tendonitis, muscle strains and sprains, and 
                            more. In every single situation the traditional treatments 
                            did nothing but treat the symptoms (often times not 
                            successfully) and the only approach that gave lasting 
                            improvements and relief was targeted stretches and 
                            exercises. BB4U Recommends: Lose The Back Pain If you suffer from back pain, we recommend Jesse Cannone's Lose the Back Pain . While many find no relief from therapy, surgery, or medication, they found a solution to their back pain - Lose the Back Pain Self Treatment System. It's simple "self assessments" 
                              you can perform in just minutes, anywhere to help 
                            you pinpoint which dysfunctions you have that cause back pain. You will learn about the four "physical dysfunctions" 
                            that are responsible for over 90% of all back pain. Lose the Back Pain shows you 4 Step-by-Step "Corrective 
                                  Action Plans" that show you exactly what you 
                                  need to do to balance your body and eliminate your 
                              back pain. Get the facts about back pain and 
                                other conditions like sciatic nerve pain and arthritis. You will learn how to strengthen your lower 
                                back and abs to prevent injuries. Take the first step to eliminating your back pain! Click below: Click here to order Jesse Cannone's Lose The Back Pain Video 
                            and eliminate your back pain! Have you tried traditional treatments 
                            and found little relief? I am not saying these treatments 
                            are not effective at temporarily reducing the pain 
                            or inflammation, but I am saying nearly all fail to 
                            get rid of the underlying cause of the problem. So how do you identify these muscle 
                            imbalances? Well, it isn’t easy but with a basic 
                            understanding of how your body works you can at least 
                            start looking at your situation and find out which 
                            muscles are over worked and too strong and/or tight 
                            and which ones are too weak and stretched out. It also helps if you can find a 
                            qualified health professional who specializes in identifying 
                            muscle imbalances. Unfortunately, there are still 
                            few professionals who use what I call the “common 
                            sense approach.” However, your best bet is to 
                            look for a personal fitness trainer that is trained 
                            and certified in post-rehabilitation, a manual physical 
                            therapist, or an osteopath. Also, don’t be afraid 
                            to ask questions... you need to take charge of your 
                            health care and be sure to quiz them to find out what 
                            type of an approach they take in treating back pain. This is just some of what you'll 
                            learn when you order our "Lose The Back Pain" 
                            video. Stop fooling around with your back pain and 
                            address the true cause because if you don't, you'll 
                            only end up with temporary relief of a life long problem. >> 
                      Click here for Jesse Cannone's Lose The Back Pain 
                      System and eliminate your back pain! About Lose the Back Pain 
                          System: The four "physical dysfunctions" 
                            that are responsible for over 90% of all back pain Simple "self assessments" 
                            you can perform in just minutes, anywhere to help 
                            you pinpoint which dysfunctions you have 4 Step-by-Step "Corrective 
                            Action Plans" that show you exactly what you 
                            need to do to balance your body and eliminate your 
                            back pain the facts about back pain and 
                            other conditions like sciatic nerve pain and arthritis how to strengthen your lower 
                            back and abs to prevent injuries >> 
                          Click here to order Jesse Cannone's Lose The Back Pain System 
                          and eliminate your back pain! Free Book Reveals... How You Can Get LASTING Relief... And Finally Get Your Life Back! If  you suffer from any type of back, neck or sciatic pain, then you need to go  grab a copy of The Healthy Back Institute's new book, "The 7-Day  Back Pain Cure" ... Right now they are actually giving it away for FREE... You just pay a small  shipping fee. Plus they are also they are also donating a portion of the  shipping fee to St. Jude's Children's Hospital or Habitat for Humanity - you  even get to choose the charity! >> Click here to get your free copy of the 7-day Back Pain Cure now Warning: This article is not intended to 
                    be medical advice however its intent is to make you a better, 
                    smatter and more informed client. The more you know and 
                    understand about your medical condition the better off you 
                    will be when it comes time to make the hard choices. As 
                    well as communicating with medical professionals.... believe 
                    me it will make a world of difference. Article by Jesse Cannone of http://www.losethebackpain.com . 
                      Jesse is a certified personal fitness trainer and 
                      post-rehab specialist and he has helped hundreds of 
                      individuals to eliminate their back pain. Visit his 
                      site now and be sure to sign up for his free email 
                      course on eliminating back pain. Tweet Back Pain & Sciatica Treatment As an  affiliate, BB4U recommends Lose the Back Pain. Jesse Cannone's " Lose 
                        the Back Pain " video will: 1) help you self assess 
                          cause of your back pain. 2) provide you Lose the Back Pain Corrective Action Plans 3) you also receive email and telephone support Click 
                      here for back pain treatment that works! Home | Shop 
            @ BB4U | Submitted 
              Articles | Supplements | Diet Pills | Prohormones | Site Index | Privacy | Disclaimer | Disclosure | Contact (c) 2001 