Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

FirstHealth of Andover - Acupuncture: Studies in Success Your browser does not support script Studies of Successful Treatments A friend 
                            of mine gave me a cartoon that perhaps you saw in 
                            the local newspaper. It pictured a wooly mammoth 
                            with spears in its backside thrown in by tiny cave 
                            men. The caption read Early Acupuncture. My wife 
                            hands me the June 2nd issue of Business Week with an 
                            article entitled Alternative Medicine: Not So 
                            Alternative Any More. Finally, laying on my desk 
                            this morning was a copy of Boston Business Journal whose front page story is entitled The Healing Ways, 
                            depicting, what else, complementary medicine. Even 
                            the die hard skeptics are starting to look at these 
                            forms of therapies, because the studies are 
                            beginning to come back highly favorable. In Acupuncture Efficacy: A Compendium of Controlled 
                            Clinical Studies, written by Stephen Finch and 
                            Richard Hammerschlag, acupuncture has been shown to 
                            be effective in a wide variety of clinical cases. Many of you who have told your friends how 
                            acupuncture has helped or eliminated your migraines 
                            can now tout the Loh L, Schott, and Zilkha Study 
                            which shows that acupuncture can produce better 
                            relief than standard drug therapy in patients with 
                            long-term histories of chronic headaches. Also, the 
                            Alonen, Makumaki, Partanen, Riekkinen, and Sivenius 
                            study which concluded that four acupuncture sessions 
                            produced the same levels of improvement in tension 
                            headaches as eight sessions of physiotherapy. This 
                            suggests that acupuncture is not only as 
                            treatment-effective as a more conventional 
                            treatment, but is more cost-effective as well. Outlined in this book are conditions that we all 
                            commonly associate with successfully being able to 
                            treat with acupuncture such as low-back pain, tennis 
                            elbow, osteoarthritis, dysmenorrhea (painful 
                            menses), post-operative pain, and sports injuries. 
                            The Hansen Study of chronic facial pain, which is 
                            usually difficult to treat by traditional means, can 
                            respond to acupuncture treatment and the improvement 
                            is greater than that resulting from a placebo 
                            effect. Acupuncture therapy has also been shown to 
                            be effective in chemotherapy-induced nausea and 
                            vomiting, morning sickness, respiratory diseases 
                            (such as asthma), peripheral nerve injury, and 
                            stroke. These studies confirm what I've seen clinically and 
                            what you have experienced in your treatments here. 
                            It's also important to know that acupuncture is a 
                            viable alternative to try instead of a procedure 
                            which may be unwanted by you and your physician. 
                            They point out studies where acupuncture was used in 
                            conjunction with other conventional treatments which 
                            resulted in better medical results and greater 
                            patient satisfaction. ACUPUNCTURE ARTICLES Videos It’s My Favorite Part of My Week: Acupuncture: It Changed My Life Walking Angels: Staff at FirstHealth of Andover I Feel Like Myself Again It's Just Wonderful It Changed My Whole Life One Man’s Journey to Health: Overcoming Chronic Issues With Coordinated Care What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience Talented and Caring Staff Under One Roof What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience 100% Cooperation To Find Solutions Acupuncture: It Makes You Feel Wonderful Acupuncture For Health: I Keep Going Treatments For Low Back Pain: Success Through Acupuncture and Exercises Help With Acute Low Back Pain It Doesn't Hurt At All Getting Through A Difficult Time I Really Feel It's A Great Place I Can Breathe: Acupuncture assists Chronic Sinusitis I'm Walking in Heels!!! Acupuncture helps joint pain Overcome Back Pain Melt Away Stress Low Back Pain Chronic Pain Staying Active! Workplace Stress Audio Acupuncture on the air! Lisa Farwell of  FirstHealth of Andover does on-air interview and acupuncture demonstration to  radio talk show host for WCAP in Lowell. Drive time fun! Articles 10 Year 
        Anniversary at FH Allergies 
        and Acupuncture Allergies, Sinus Headaches, and Acupuncture Alpha-Stim ® Stress Buster Alternative 
        Treatments Arthritis Arthritis & TCM Auriculotherapy Auricular 
        Testimonial Back Pain Balance Method BioElectric 
        Flow Bladder 
        Infections Cancer Care Research Carpal Tunnel Constipation Dental Pain Depression Diabetes Diarrhea Dysmenorrhea Endometriosis Essential Oils Energy Channels Facelift ... 
        Naturally! Facial 
        Acupuncture's Top 5 Facial 
        "Midlife" Acupuncture Facial 
        Rejuvenation Female 
        Infertility I Female 
        Infertility: Hope Female 
        Infertility II Female 
        Infertility III Female Infertility Story Line Female Infertility: Overcoming Female Infertility: A Program of Hope Female 
        Infertility Role Female 
        Infertility: Top Ten Reasons Why Acupuncture Is A Must ! Fibromyalgia First Visit Gua Sha Technique High Blood Pressure High Blood 
        Pressure Research Headaches HIV/AIDS How Acupuncture 
        Works IBS Insurance Low Back Pain Low Back Pain 
        "Team Approach" Magnets: 
        Baylor Study Magnets: 
        Benefits Magnets: History Magnets: Post 
        Polio Magnets: Research Acceptance Magnets: Testimonial Male 
        Infertility Menopause Menstrual Cycle Morning 
        Sickness Myocardial Ischemia National 
        Health Statistic Report Needles Neuro Imaging NIH Survey on CAM Osteoarthritis Overview of 
        Acupuncture Pain 
        Management for Active Boomers Pain Relief Painful 
        Menstruation Pediatric Top 10 Pediatric 
        Acupuncture: Shonishin Pediatric 
        Asthma Pediatric 
        Asthma Tools Pediatric 
        Eczema Pediatric Oriental 
        Medicine Pediatric 
        Holistic Care with OM PMS Post Partum Raindrop 
        Technique Sciatica and Golfer's 
        Back Science and 
        Humanity: Eagle Tribune News Article Scientific 
        Mechanism Shingles Sinus Relief Sinus 
        Relief, Breathe Easier Sinusitis Sports Injuries Start 
        Sleeping (Again) Program Stop Smoking 
        for Life! Program Studies in 
        Success Tennis Elbow Testimonial: 
        Breech Pregnancy Testimonial: Bursitis Testimonial: Compartment Syndrome Testimonial: Fibromyalgia Testimonial: Foot Injury Testimonial: Interstitial Cystitis Testimonial: Knee and Foot Pain Testimonial: 
        Labor Testimonial: 
        Low Back Pain Testimonial: 
        Nausea Testimonial: Non Hodgkins Testimonial: Painful Menses Testimonial: Sports Injury Wellness Is a 
        Team Sport What 
        Acupuncture Treats What Is Acupuncture! Research, 
									Discounts, Special Events JOIN THE CLINIC CLUB TODAY!! As a 
				club member, you will receive special discount coupons, health 
				and research bulletins, and special event updates to our 
				FirstHealth team of speakers. DIRECTIONS | MISSION STATEMENT | TERMS OF USE | PATIENT PRIVACY | CONTACT US | HOME © 2010  FirstHealthofAndover™.  All Rights 
		Reserved.  One Dundee Park, Andover, MA 01810    978 - 474 - 9994 Serving 
        S