Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 05:25:52 GMT
Connection: close

Back Pain Information You Need to Know About Disability 
            Information for the Disabled from the Disabled. Submit 
                    Article Search 
                    Articles Most 
                    Recent Most 
                    Popular About the home Finance Health .. Ailments .. New Medication .. Remedies That Life is too short Out of the home Support groups Travel Your Stories Home Contribute Chat Room Disability Forums Visitor FeedBack Common Searches FAQ's Disability Links About Us Contact Us Bookmark Us Tell A Friend Health > Remedies That Have H > Back Pain Informatio Back Pain Information You Need to Know About Back pain is the second most common neurological ailment in the United States. The only ailment that is more common is a headache. The nice part about lower back pain is that it will usually disappear in a few days. After you have a minor fall or some other injury that can cause you to have a muscle pull or a ligament strain, it is very common to have some lower back pain. Anti-inflammatory medicine will sometimes give you relief. Ibuprofin is a popular type of pain reliever used for this purpose. You should also consider treatment by using ice and rest. Over the next 5 to 7 days your back pain should improve. Back pain is not only related to adults. In fact, 10 to 40percent of teenagers experience some form of back pain as well. Pain relief for teenagers and adults should be similar. Low back pain associated with muscle fatigue can come and go at different times, often without an obvious reason for onset. These occurrences make it hard to get around with our daily activities. Due to the complex anatomical structure or our backs, back pain can be difficult to diagnose. Many muscle tendons, ligaments, bones and neurological components make up the structure of the back. All countries have back pain problems and there is much knowledge about the subject. Even with the medical advances we have on the subject we do not know the many causes of back pain. In fact a lot of times back pain is caused by other body parts not functioning as they should. Fatigue in the muscles or low back pain are not a diagnosis but just a symptom. More than 80%of all Americans suffer from some type of back pain at some time in their lives. Back pain is one of the leading causes of disability for younger people under 45 years old. So as you can see this is very common. What we know is that back pain can be classified into 3 categories that are based on duration of the symptoms: Acute back pain - Pain will normally last for less than six weeks. Sub acute back pain - Pain lasts for anywhere between six to twelve weeks. Chronic back pain - Any pain that lasts longer than twelve weeks. Some of the common causes are: Nerve impingement problems (pinched nerve) herniated disc problems (slipped disc or ruptured disc) spinal degeneration osteoarthritis muscular problems sciatic back pain To provide detail of the discs in your back, in cases of degenerative disc disease, isthmic spondylolisthesis, herniated discs or spinal stenosis, MRI scans are very useful and are helpful in ruling out tumours or spinal infections. MRI scans have become the most prevalent test to check the lumbar spine. These MRI scans don't require needles and are painless. MRI scans are usually taken after x-rays have been taken. Muscle relaxants are used to treat back spasms. They are a bit controversial for a few reasons. These type of drugs are known to make you sleepy and if used for long periods of time, can cause a dependency for the drug and have been known to cloud the mind. Muscle relaxants are beneficial to treat back spasms but need to be taken with caution. Some other applications such as heat, tens unit, back pain therapy, some gentle stretching and of course massage can help to relax the spasmodic muscles and backache. Sometimes muscle strains (pulled muscle) are identified as a cause of chronic back pain and also muscle imbalances. The pain from such an injury can remain as long as this muscle imbalance continues. Don't suffer anymore from back pain . Imagine how good it would feel to be back pain free. You can, by feeling our FREE PDF and discover the treatment of back pain and start feeling relief you need starting today. Get it Now About the author: I have written many articles on a variety of subject matters. I have attained expert status in the field of back pain and our site ranks well in Google. Please take a moment to visit our site. Bob Beartoes Larger 
                    Text? | Contribute | Link 
                    To Us © DisabledInfo.co.uk 
        