Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Side Effects of Cinnamon Health Food and Nutrition Eating Right for Optimal Health Health Diaries > Eat This! > Side Effects of Cinnamon Side Effects of Cinnamon Published on September 27, 2011 You may know about the benefits of cinnamon , but what about its side effects?  Here are some of the side effects of cinnamon that you need to be aware of. Note on Identification "Cassia" is an herb which looks and tastes like cinnamon and can be found on some store shelves labeled as cinnamon when actually it does not carry the health benefits of true "Ceylon cinnamon". The first step in using cinnamon safely is knowing what you are getting.  Cassia contains higher amounts of coumarin than true cinnamon and coumarin is responsible for some of the side effects listed below. Skin Irritation The essential oil of cinnamon must never be applied directly to the skin. Small amounts of the diluted oil can be used for refreshment and to fight infection but the oil alone can quickly cause severe burning and irritation to exposed skin. Allergies are rare but sometimes manifest as sores. Stomach Irritation Those with any prior condition of the digestive system such as an ulcer or irritable bowel syndrome should be careful when eating cinnamon. Large amounts (more than 1/2 a teaspoon) may cause the lining of the stomach to become irritated. Increased Heart Rate Large amounts of cinnamon have been reported to increase heart rate which could be dangerous for those with a heart condition. Increased heart rate is also linked to cinnamon oil poisoning in children. Uterine Contractions Some traditional medicine practitioners will give a mother cinnamon in order to induce or normalize contractions. Therefore, pregnant women may want to avoid cinnamon. Blood Thinning Cinnamon may have anti-clotting properties and may cause over thinning of the blood if you are taking blood thinners.  Large doses of cinnamon should also not be used before surgery, during heavy menstruation, or in any situation where a lot of bleeding may occur. Kidney and Liver Problems There is anecdotal evidence suggesting that people with kidney or liver problems or people who are taking drugs that are processed in the liver may want to avoid taking high doses of cinnamon due to its coumarin content. Coumarin levels are higher in cassia than in true cinnamon, but cinnamon does contain compounds that are known to be toxic to the kidneys at high doses. Blood Sugar People taking medication to regulate blood sugar should be careful when taking cinnamon, as it also has a powerful effect on blood sugar and the two in combination may lower blood sugar too much. Antibiotics Cinnamon is a powerful antibiotic, but check with your doctor before taking cinnamon if you are taking prescription antibiotics, because it may change the way prescription antibiotics act on the body. Social Tweet Follow @eatthisblog Subscribe If you'd like to receive Eat This! updates, enter your email address below: Delivered by FeedBurner Related Content 10 Health Benefits of Cinnamon Cinnamon for Weight Loss 18 Facts About Cinnamon Honey and Cinnamon for Acne Honey and Cinnamon Mask Recipe How to Make Cinnamon Toothpicks How to Make Cinnamon Tea Allergy to Cinnamon Cinnamon Pita Chips Recipe Turmeric Side Effects Recent Articles Valentine's Day Idea: Rose Petals in Champagne 15 Quotes About Food from the Movies 8 Facts About Chicken Wings How to Make Healthy Buffalo Chicken Wings That Taste Sinful Side Effects of Yellow #5 5 Ways to Eat Healthier Without Even Trying 20 Quotes About Cheese 20 Interesting Facts About Pears 12 Quotes About Pears How to Ripen Pears Popular Articles 10 Health Benefits of Cinnamon Side Effects of Cinnamon Cinnamon Allergy 10 Health Benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar Blackstrap Molasses 20 Health Benefits of Turmeric Turmeric Side Effects 17 Foods That Prevent Breast Cancer 10 Health Benefits of Apples 10 Foods That Fight Prostate Cancer Comments (2) | Leave a comment Interesting facts here! I never once in my life thought about possible side effects while eating something that contains cinnamon.  Next time I certainly will! Posted by Brain Vitamins on January 30, 2012  5:26 PM | Permalink | Reply I love cinnamon and had no idea it was causing issues like this for me.  I think with the help from this article we can avoid these side effects and still partake of one of our favorite spices.  Thanks. Posted by Kyle Smith on February  9, 2012 10:56 AM | Permalink | Reply Leave a comment Name Email Address URL Remember personal info? Comments All content published on HealthDiaries.com is provided for informational and educational purposes only.  HealthDiaries.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The site and its services are not a substitute for professional medical advice and treatment. Always seek the advice of your doctor before making any changes to your diet, health routine or treatment. Copyright © 2006-2012 HealthDiaries.com. All right