
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 00:42:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Cache-Control: no-cache
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Cough, Colds & Croup About About FGB History Sponsorship Environment Employment Natural Products Natural Uses Testimonials Facilities Commercial Oil Export Media Schools Search FGB Natural Products Home Contact Us Links Where to Buy Colds, Coughs and Croup Colds, coughs, or upper respiratory tract infections, are the most common cause of illness in children and adults. Most colds and coughs are caused by a virus – in fact there are over 200 types of viruses that can cause the common cold (which is why it’s not possible to be immunised against a cold). Coughs and colds are more common in the winter months. Cold weather by itself does not increase the chance of getting colds, but people are in closer contact with each other because they stay indoors and are more likely to infect each other. The viruses which cause colds are spread by sneezing, coughing and hand contact. Cold Symptoms Symptoms of colds can be combinations of: A stuffy or runny nose Sneezing Sore or scratchy throat Coughing Headache Red eyes Swelling of lymph glands Fever (occasionally). Often there will be loss of appetite, and sometimes nausea and some vomiting. Actual cold symptoms will vary from person to person, and from illness to illness. Usually cold symptoms will last anywhere from a few days to a week or more, and the person recovers fully without any problems. What is Croup? Croup is a condition resulting from acute obstruction of the throat and trachea. Croup can be caused by allergy or infection and mainly occurs in infants and young children. It is often a complication of the common cold. If you suspect your child has croup it is important to see a doctor as the infection can spread rapidly into the passages of the ears, causing a middle ear infection. Immune System Support for Colds While there are things you can do to help prevent colds (see Preventing Colds & Flu), there is no cure. Antibiotics are useless against the common cold – they treat bacterial infections, not viral ones. While getting adequate rest & fluids is the most important way to assist your body to heal from colds, good nutrition can also help. Combat Colds with a Balanced Diet It’s important to maintain a normal, healthy diet to provide the nutrients your body needs to fight off colds. While you should not eat if not hungry, healthy light meals such as salads and soup can help keep energy levels up. Try to include plenty of Vitamin C-rich fruits and vegetables, such as citrus fruits, green leafy vegetables, tomatoes and capsicum. A supplement may help if the diet is inadequate. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant and helps support the immune system in the battle against cold and flu . Garlic has anti-viral and mucous-reducing properties and can also help the body’s natural healing processes. It’s important to keep fluid intake up, so drink plenty of water. And don’t forget those old folk remedies of a cup of hot lemon and honey tea or chicken soup – they’re still remarkably effective for colds! Ward off Colds with Helpful Supplements Zinc is a co-factor in many enzyme processes in the human body, especially the immune system. When zinc is deficient, immune cells show decreased function. 1 With strong anti-viral properties, studies have shown zinc supplementation can help reduce the duration of colds. 2 Herbs can also help build immunity and assist the body to recover faster from colds. Echinacea is a widely known and popular herb which can help treat and reduce cold symptoms. Another important cold-fighting herb is Astragalus . Considered by many to be even more potent than Echinacea, this highly revered Chinese herb has been used for centuries for its immune-boosting properties and to treat upper respiratory tract infections associated with colds. Astragalus increases virus-fighting T-cells in the immune system, helping to fight off the infection and shorten the duration of colds. 3 Gentle, Non-Invasive Treatments for Coughs and Colds Anaesthetics, antiseptics, anti-inflammatories, antihistamines, pseudoephdrine, antitussives, mucolytics… the world of pharmaceutical cold and flu remedies is wide and confusing. While some drug-based treatments are appropriate at times, they can also have side-effects. In some cases, many are only suppressive and are not a ‘cure’ for colds. Vapour Therapy for Colds Remember sitting with your head under a towel over a bowl of steaming water? This simple remedy is still one of the best ways to treat congestion caused by colds. Our bodies are up to 60% water and the respiratory system needs moisture to operate effectively – if not, it cannot do its job of trapping cold and flu viruses and keeping the airways clear. Warm steam loosens phlegm, helps clear congestion from the chest and nasal passages and allows easier breathing. Steam therapy can help ease coughing - including a chesty cough and a dry cough ;  as well as nasal congestion - by making it easier to expel mucous, reducing irritation and moisturising the delicate mucous membranes of the throat. 4 Steam vaporisers are an easy and convenient way to reap the benefits of steam therapy - particularly during the night and in children’s bedrooms, allowing them more restful sleeps – especially when suffering from coughs and colds. Read more about Vapor Therapy here. Eucalyptus Oil – Nature’s Cold and Flu Fighter Ahh… eucalyptus oil. Its clean, fresh familiar fragrance is as revitalising as it is comforting. Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil has been long renowned for its ability to help provide soothing relief of cold and flu symptoms, with powerful expectorant (mucous- loosening) properties which help clear chest and nose congestion. It also has a natural disinfectant and antibacterial action which can assist in fighting cold and flu. Over 150 years old, this tried-and-true Aussie remedy is still a family favourite today. Treatment of Colds using Eucalyptus Oil Here’s just a few ways you can treat cold symptoms using Nature’s cold and flu fighter - Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil (and other eucalyptus-based products): Add Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Inhalant to your steam vaporiser’s water chamber. The soothing vapours provide all night relief from the symptoms of colds and help ease nasal stuffiness Use Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil or Inhalant in a bowl of steaming water - or a hand-held Vapour Inhaler if at work Sprinkle Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil on the bottom of the shower – the hot water will evaporate the oil providing a refreshing wake-up call and helps clear blocked nasal passages in the morning A drop or two of Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil on a handkerchief carried around during the day helps provide all-day natural sinus relief Use Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Spray around the house and bedrooms to disinfect and kill germs that can cause colds, whilst leaving a fresh bushland fragrance. Using a eucalyptus-based chest rub such as Euky Bearub at night can help comfort, soothe and provide relief from cold and flu symptoms. Ask your pharmacist about saline solutions to help clear stubborn nasal congestion – a natural alternative to steroid nasal sprays. Or try Nasex which contains natural eucalyptus essential oils, for effective temporary relief from congestion caused by colds. Supplementary Measures to Treat Colds Rest - especially if you have a chest cold. Gentle exercise is fine if you have mild head-cold symptoms (runny nose, watery eyes) but rest is most definitely needed if your cold symptoms are below the neck (coughing, general weakness and fatigue). Stop smoking, or avoid passive smoke (both impair lung function and irritate the respiratory tract). Take paracetamol if you have a fever. Cover your nose and mouth when you sneeze or cough, and wash your hands to prevent passing the infection on to others. References Available on request. This material is for information purposes only and is not a substitute for medical diagnosis or treatment. If symptoms persist, please contact your healthcare professional. Back to top - Colds, Coughs and Croup We hope you found this information on colds and the treatment of cold symptoms useful.  For more information on suitable products that can be used to treat colds, coughs and croup please consult the FGB Natural Products pages. More Competitions! Competition Winners! Follow @Bosistos Home Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Find us on Facebook ©Copyright Felton Grimwad