Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

YOUR HEALTH - VALARIAN About | News | Archive | Contact | Medicine 101 TVO JOES 
          HERBS Valarian Phew, that's 
                what Greek physicians in first century called the valerian root.  
                I can understand why:  the smell is somewhat reminiscent 
                of cat urine.  But you know what? Apparently rats like it. 
                In the 13 th century the legendary Pied Piper of Hamelin 
                used a fragrance of Valerian to lure rats out of the little village.  
                The elders of the town should have paid him for the services.  
                Apparently they didn't, so he ended up luring their children away.  
                Well, I'm sure he didn't do that with Valerian root. Valerian, 
                however, is a very interesting plant.  It's also known as 
                the garden heliotrope.  And it has a legendary use as a tranquilizing 
                agent and as a sleeping inducing agent.   Notice that 
                the word shares something with the drug - a name, valium, valerian.  
                Well the name may be similar but the chemistry isn't.  The 
                active ingredients of valerian are quite different from what we 
                have in valium, however, there may be one common feature.  
                Both of these seem to induce a formation of GABA; gamma-aminobutanoic 
                acid, in the nervous system, particularly in the brain.  
                And this chemical has been linked with tranquilizing effects, 
                and also with sedation and with sleep.  In fact in the 18 th century, physicians were already recommending valerian root to 
                calm people down, so they would not be agitated, and they also 
                recommended that it would be used for feminine irritations, whatever 
                that might be.  There may have been some science there, but 
                there was not a whole lot. But there 
                is some interesting stuff about valerian to be sure.  Anecdotal 
                evidence? Well about 89% of patients in a French study suggested 
                they slept better and felt calmer once they had taken valerian.  
                Interesting thing is that objective studies do not bear this out.  
                When brain waves were examined they did not reflect the better 
                sleep patterns. But maybe, brain waves don't exactly measure what 
                we think they measure.  Indeed in Europe many physicians 
                prescribe valerian to their patients who complain of anxiety and 
                who can't sleep very well.  For someone who has mild problems 
                like that, valerian is worth a try. Researchers 
                at Proctor and Gamble sure think so.  They've come up with 
                a little recipe that can be added to steam ironing mixtures.  
                Why?  So that when you're ironing away, you get the waft 
                of valerian in the air to calm you down.  What else can it 
                do?  Well, maybe attract a few rats?  If you get anxious 
                about that, well, take some valerian. About | News | Archive | Contact | Medicine 
        101 TVO Homepage © 
        TVOntario, 2003 Disclaimer This 
        website contains general information on the stories featured on Your Health. 
        Although it’s our goal to provide comprehensive information on health 
        and medical issues, please be advised that we cannot provide individual 
        medical adv