Set-Cookie: pers_cookie_insert_healthology_newweb_80=1757663808.20480.0000; expires=Thu, 03-May-2012 19:17:56 GMT; path=/

Healthy Aging - Treatment Options for Rheumatoid Arthritis Allergy Alzheimer's Disease Arthritis Asthma Breast Cancer Cardio Health Colon Cancer Diabetes Dieting Epilepsy Hair Loss Headache Heartburn HIV & AIDS Kidney Health Leukemia Lung Cancer Lymphoma Multiple Sclerosis Men's Health Mental Health Nutrition Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Prostate Health Skin Health Sleep Disorders Women's Health Find a Massage Therapist & more... Find a therapist near you City or Zip Code: Powered by: Psychology Today Advertisement Related Programs New and Emerging Therapies for Rheumatoid Arthritis Introduction to Rheumatoid Arthritis What Causes Rheumatoid Arthritis? What is Rheumatoid Arthritis? Healthy Aging Treatment Options for Rheumatoid Arthritis Summary & Participants Rheumatoid arthritis can be a painful and debilitating disease. Although there is no cure, there are effective treatment options. Medically Reviewed On: July 21, 2009 Webcast Transcript ANNOUNCER: Rheumatoid arthritis can be a painful and debilitating disease. Although there is no cure, there are effective treatment options. ERIC RUDERMAN, MD: There are really two treatment goals. We’re trying to treat the symptoms now, so we’re trying to reduce the pain, reduce the inflammation, reduce the impact of those things on a patient’s ability to function right now. And at the same time, we’re trying to reduce the damage that may occur later, because ultimately that damage may impact function, even if there is no inflammation. And so right from the beginning, we really look to both aims. ANNOUNCER: A variety of therapies are available to patients. There are agents to treat symptoms and drugs that can affect the long-term course of the disease. Optimal treatment often requires a combination of therapies. ERIC RUDERMAN, MD: There are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and that includes naproxen or ibuprofen or even some of the newer COX-2 inhibitors, like celecoxib or Celebrex. They treat the inflammation. They may reduce symptoms. But they have no impact whatsoever on the damage that occurs with the disease or the progression of disease. They can be useful drugs, although they have side effects. They can cause a lot of gastrointestinal problems; particularly they’re associated with a risk of ulcer or bleeding if not used carefully. ANNOUNCER: Corticosteriods are another option available to patients. ERIC RUDERMAN, MD: Steroids are really very potent anti-inflammatories. You can use steroids either orally, as prednisone tablets. You can get an injection, either an intramuscular injection or even an injection into a swollen joint. And they will rapidly improve pain and swelling and stiffness and the symptoms of arthritis. ANNOUNCER: Corticosteriods should not be used for long periods of time. They can increase a patient’s risk for osteoporosis, cataracts, infection and hypertension. CLIFTON O. BINGHAM, MD: NSAIDs and prednisone and steroids are adjunctive therapy. They're things that we use in addition, they're things that we use as a bridge until these more effective therapies kick in and start to work. We have a class of agents, though, that are called DMARDs or disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. And these are drugs that have actually shown us that they can affect the long-term course of disease in preventing damage and preventing destruction. ANNOUNCER: Prescribed DMARDs may include hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine, leflunomide, or the immunosuppressive agent methotrexate. Page 1 of 2 Next Page >> RELATED PROGRAMS Video - New and Emerging Therapies for Rheumatoid Arthritis Transcript Article - Introduction to Rheumatoid Arthritis Video - What Causes Rheumatoid Arthritis? Transcript Video - What is Rheumatoid Arthritis? Transcript Advertisement HealthVideo.com © 2008 NBC Digital Health Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy - Disclaimer - Editorial Poli