Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

asthama AromaTherapy What  Is AromaTherapy? Therapy Makes Scents 50 Uses of Essential Oils Herbal Info Introduction  To Herbs Collecting  Wild Herbs Grandma/Grandpa's  Remedies Herbal  Tea Collection Top  Ten Researched Herbs Growing Common  Companions Drying/Preserving Feeding/Fertilizing Harvesting/Drying Growing  Indoors Insects  In The Garden Planting/Cultivating Natural  Child Care Herbs  & Children Natural  Remedies For Children Using  Essential Oils With Children Herbal  Medicine For Children Herbal  Treatments For Children Natural  Beauty Homemade  Beauty Solutions Essential  Oils In The Bath Essential  Oils & Affect On Skin Natural Health Care Miscellaneous Therapeutic  Teas & Mixtures Honey  As A healer Aphrodisiacs Herbs  For Liver Problems Herbs  For Obesity Herbs  For Quitting Smoking Infertility Native  American Herbal Remedies Natural  Care For Hair Loss Dealing  With Head Lice Herbs  For Arthritis Natural  Arthritis Care Herbs  For High Blood Pressure Herbs  For Kidney Stones Blood/Circulation Herbs  For Circulation Herbs  For Hypoglycemia Herbs  For Diabetes Herbs  For High Cholesterol Herbs  For Edema Resources Herbs Aromatherapy Alternative Treatments Natural Products Ayurveda Conditions and Diseases Beauty Nutrition Health Care Self Help Natural Asthma   Care Asthma is a very common   respiratory disease, it affects the trachea and bronchial tubes by becoming   inflamed and plugged with mucus. This causes the airways to narrow, restricting   the amount of air going to the lungs, and makes it very difficult to breathe.   Asthma can occur in anyone but is very common in children and young adults.   Typical symptoms of an asthma attack are coughing, wheezing, tight chest,   difficulty breathing. There are 2 types of   asthma Allergic asthma Non allergic asthma. Some of the   allergens that can trigger an asthma attack are: chemicals, drugs, smoke, dust,   food additives, pollution, mold, etc. Non allergic asthma can be cause by   anxiety, exercise, dry or humid weather, fear, laughing, stress   etc. The rate, in which asthma   attacks have increase in the pass few years is alarming, specially in children.   Scientists believe that, there is a strong link between contamination in the air   we breath and asthma, evidence suggest that the percentage of people who live in   big cities, and have asthma attacks is far greater, than those of people who   live in rural areas. However, this may not be the only reason, it is believed   that genetic, food additives, toxins etc. could also contribute to asthma   attacks. Modern medicine can offer   very little to children with asthma, most drugs can only produce a temporary   effect. Herbs in the other hand can be very helpful, not only reducing attacks   but also strengthening the lungs and immune system. You'll learn to treat this   disease with many combinations of herbs such as mullein , elecampane and more . We   recommend Vitamin B6 and Vitamin B12   are very important nutrients to treat asthma decreasing the inflammation in the   lungs. Click on the sign for more vitamins B . Vitamin C Is needed to   fight infection, increase the amount of oxygen and reduce   inflammation. Use ginkgo biloba, this   herb contains ginkgolide B which is very helpful. Some studies indicate that   ginkgo biloba reduces the frequency of asthma attacks. Mullein oil is used to   fight respiratory congestion, is very important to make it as a tea for faster   results. Pau d'arco is a natural   antibiotic and reduces inflammation. In china a powerful mixture   of herbs called Shuan Huang Lian is being used in hospitals to treat respiratory   illness, very important to use this herb in asthma and acute   bronchitis. If exercise triggers asthma   attacks, cut back the amount of salt in your diet and take 2,000 mg. of Vitamin   C one hour before your workout. Eat salmon 3 times a week   and take salmon oil capsules. Drink coffee and Soft   drinks with caffeine (colas), caffeine dilates the bronchial   airways. Make a tea   using: 2 tsp. powdered Indian root. 2 tsp. granulated echinacea   root. 2 tsp. elecampane root. 2 cups of   water. Mix all ingredients and let them set for 2 hours. To improve breathing make a   tea with: 1 quart boiling   water. 1 tsp. chamomile flowers. 1 tsp. echinacea   root. 1 tsp. mullein leaves. 1 tsp. passionflower   leaves. Ephedra Extract Complex is a unique herbal formula for asthma and helps   as a decongestant. Ephedra's traditional medicinal uses include the alleviation   of sweating, lung and bronchial constriction and water retention. Coughing,   shortness of breath, the common cold and fevers without sweat are all   indications for its use. Though the best use for Ephedra Extract is as a   short-term bronchodilator. Reference Herbs To Avoid During Pregnancy Herbal Contraindications Capsule Dosage Amounts Dosing Guidelines Making Echinacea Tincture Herbal Use Precautions Herb Safety Herb Terminology Colds/Flu/Respiratory Beating  The Cold Bug Herbs  For Common Cold Herbs  For Cough Natural  Asthma Care Natural  Care For Fevers Digestion/Stomach Herbs  For Constipation Herbs  For Diarrhea Herbs  For Digestion Herbs  For Motion-Sickness For Men Herbs  For Prostatic Hypertrophy Herbs  For The Prostate Herbs  For Impotence Natural  Care For Prostatis For Women Anemia  During Pregnancy Back  Pain During Pregnancy Fertility  & Contraception Herbs  For Childbirth Herbs  For Delayed Menses Herbs  For Menopause Herbs  For Post Childbirth Herbs  For PMS/Menopause Herbs  For Post Partum Herbs  For Pre-Menstrual Tension Headaches/Migraines/Insomnia Get  A Good Night's Sleep Herbs  For Headaches Herbs  For Insomnia Herbs  For Migraines More  On Insomnia Injuries Herbs  For Burns & Scalds Natural  Care For Bone Fractures Herbs  For Dog Bites Skin Ailments Herbs  For Eczema Herbs  For Poison Ivy Natural  Acne Treatments Natural  Care For Dermatitis Natural  Care For Stretchmarks Natural  Care For Wrinkles Stop  Cold & Canker Sores Natural  Pet Care Herbal  Healing For Pets All  Purpose Herbal Pet Kit Dealing  With Fleas P