Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

GESTATIONAL DIABETES GESTATIONAL DIABETES by Heidi Kuran JUMP TO>>>> [types of diabetes] [why are so many women
getting gestational diabetes?] [health of the baby?] [blood testing] [important guidlines!] Oliver Okemow introduced Dr. Elizabeth Robinson , a public health doctor from the Cree Board of Health and Social Services of James Bay, Quebec. Before working as a public health doctor, she was
a general practitioner in the Cree communities of James Bay. Dr. Robinson was recently involved in a research project on gestational diabetes. Twenty years ago when Dr. Robinson worked
as a family physician in the Cree community of Fort George Island, she never saw pregnant women get diabetes. Last year, she was involved in a study in
the Cree communities that determined that one in eight or about 13% of pregnant women gets gestational diabetes - a significant change over the last two decades. Dr. Robinson began with an overview of diabetes
and explained that there are three types of diabetes: type 1, type 2 and gestational diabetes. Type
1 diabetes means that the person
depends on insulin injections because they lack insulin production. Type 2 is more common and is prevalent in First Nations communities. Type 2 means that insulin is produced, but is not effective and eventually the pancreas slows or stops production making the person dependent on insulin injections. Gestational diabetes develops while women
are pregnant or in some cases, it is first detected during pregnancy but has been present for some time. Most gestational diabetes develops in the middle of the pregnancy - usually in the fourth or fifth
month. When a woman who has already been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes
gets pregnant, this is not gestational diabetes. It is potentially
harmful for the baby as birth defects, stillbirths and miscarriages
may result from the mother's diabetes. Dr. Robinson provided data from a study
that took place between the years 1989-92 in the Sioux Lookout area. The study involved 19 mothers (26 pregnancies) with type 2 diabetes: ~ One baby
died in the uterus at 38 weeks ~ 2 babies were born with birth defects ~ 4 babies born with big shoulders - difficult deliveries ~ 10 newborns developed jaundice Dr. Robinson stressed the need for CHRs
to tell women with type 2 diabetes to get
their blood sugar under control before becoming pregnant . Women who
want to become pregnant should also switch from pills to insulin prior to pregnancy and all women should take folic acid every day. The question remains - why are so many women getting gestational diabetes? Gestational diabetes can result from pregnancy hormones that cause muscle tissue to become resistant to insulin. Gestational diabetes is more common in groups where type 2 diabetes is common, such as First Nations communities. The mother's blood sugar usually goes back to normal after the delivery but she has a 50% chance of developing type 2 diabetes later on. What about
the health of the baby when the mother suffers from gestational diabetes? Dr. Robinson
explained that the baby would have high blood sugar if the mother does because glucose crosses the placenta but insulin does not. The glucose from the mother causes the baby to produce insulin and the increased insulin production can make the baby very large and cause difficult pregnancies. Other health problems the baby may develop are low blood sugar after birth, jaundice and trouble
breathing. The chance for children to get type 2 diabetes later in life increases dramatically when the mother has had gestational diabetes. However, it is important to remember that if blood sugar is controlled, a woman with gestational diabetes can have a healthy
baby. Blood testing
for gestational diabetes is extremely important. There are three types of tests: 1 Fasting blood glucose (often done at the beginning of the pregnancy) 2 Glucose challenge
test (patient
drinks 50gm glucose drink and a blood test is performed one hour later) recommended routinely at the 5th, 6th or 7th month of pregnancy 3 Glucose tolerance
test (75 gm of glucose with three
blood tests) Gestational diabetes guidelines include eating
healthy, avoiding excessive weight gain and monitoring blood glucose. Dr. Robinson elaborated on another set of guidelines from a doctor in California, Dr. Lois Jovanovic-Peterson, who is a world authority on gestational diabetes. Her
guidelines are: ~ Frequent small meals. ~ Protein at every meal or snack - meat, eggs, beans or nuts. ~ High
    fiber foods - whole wheat bread, oatmeal fruits and vegetables. ~ Eat less fried food to lower non-nutritional fat intake. ~ Avoid
    sugar and concentrated sweets - soft drinks, cookies, fruit
    juices. ~ Eat
    a small breakfast with no fruit or juice for example a boiled
    egg, oatmeal or whole wheat toast. ~ Weight gain during pregnancy should be 28 to 40 pounds for underweight
    women and 15 to 25 pounds for heavier women. ~ Exercise well during pregnancy - 20 minutes of exercise three times a
    week may help avoid insulin. Even 20 minutes of arm exercise
    three times a week will help reduce gestational diabetes ~ Monitor blood sugar to ensure that it stays within the normal range of 3.8-7 mmol/L. After the baby arrives the mother may prevent
or postpone getting type 2 diabetes by keeping physically active and trying to return
to pre-pregnancy weight. She should also have a blood test for diabetes within six months after the birth. Breastfeeding the baby helps
prevent obesity and diabetes in the child's future. Before the next
pregnancy , an active health lifestyle is the best way to ensure a healthy
new baby. Can gestational diabetes be
prevented? Some First Nations people have characterized diabetes as a gift from the creator and acts as a message to take care of ourselves by eating properly, exercising and staying healthy. Nutritionists can help counsel
pregnant women on healthy eating during pregnancy but the advice needs
to come early enough for changes to make an impact on the pregnancy. Culturally specific nutritional counseling is very important in
First Nations communities. Diabetes can not be entirely prevented but it can be delayed significantly. Dr. Robinson praised the CHRs for their efforts educating