Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Insomnia -- Drug Companies - Pipeline Drugs -- Clinical Trials BIOTECHNOLOGY 
ENCYCLOPEDIA Today 
is Biotechnology 
Encyclopedia Insomnia Insomnia is a sleep disorder characterised 
by an inability to sleep and/or to remain asleep for a reasonable period during 
the night. Sufferers typically complain of being unable to close their eyes for 
more than a few minutes at a time, or of 'tossing and turning' through the night. If 
insomnia continues for more than a few nights running, it can become chronic and 
cause a sleep deficit that is extremely 
detrimental to the sufferer's well-being. Insomnia interrupts the natural sleep cycle , which can be 
hard to restore. Some insomniacs unwittingly perpetuate their complaint by napping 
in the late afternoon or early evening, leading to wakefulness at bedtime and 
more insomnia. Others push their bodies to the limits, until their sleep deficit 
causes severe physical and mental effects. Many 
people who feel they are suffering from insomnia may actually have a lower physical 
need for sleep than they believe they do. A normal part of the ageing process 
is to sleep more lightly and for shorter periods of time, and some elderly people 
toss and turn in bed late at night or early in the morning when their body has 
no physical need for more rest, because they believe that they must 'need' a certain 
amount of sleep to be rested. Insomnia 
is a common side-effect of some medications, and it can also be caused by stress , emotional 
upheaval, physical or mental illness , dietary 
allergy and poor sleep hygiene . Insomnia 
is a major symptom of mania in people with bipolar disorder , and 
it can also be a sign of hyper-thyroidism , depression , or other 
physical complaints with stimulating effects. Additionally, 
a rare genetic condition can cause a prion based, permanent and eventually 
fatal form of insomnia called Fatal Familial Insomnia . Treatment 
for insomnia Many 
insomniacs rely on sleeping tablets and other sedatives to try to get some 
rest. Others use herbs such as valerian , chamomile , lavender , hops , and/or passion-flower . Some 
traditional 'cures' for insomnia involve drinking warm milk before bedtime, taking 
a warm bath in the evening, exercising vigorously for half an hour in the afternoon, 
eating a large lunch, then a light evening meal at least three hours before bed, 
avoiding mentally stimulating activities in the evening hours, and paradoxically, 
making sure to get up early in the morning and to retire to bed at a reasonable 
hour. Traditional Chinese 
medicine practitioners have been treating insomnia sufferers for thousands 
of years. A typical approach may utilize acupuncture , dietary and lifestyle 
analysis, herbology and other techniques, 
with the goal of rebalancing the body's energies to resolve the problem at a subtle 
level. Although 
they seem unscientific, many of these 'cures' are sufficient to break the insomnia 
cycle without the need for sedatives and sleeping tablets. Warm milk contains 
high levels of tryptophan , a natural sedative. Lavender oil and other relaxing essential oils may also 
be used to help induce a state of restfulness. The 
most commonly used class of hypnotics prescribed for insomnia are the benzodiazepines . This would 
include drugs such as diazepam , lorazepam , nitrazepam and midazolam . Removing 
probable causes of insomnia Please 
note that the advice given below is not a substitute for a professional medical 
specialist's advice. Sufferers 
of insomnia should avoid all caffeine . Caffeine is often 
a factor in insomnia, including insomnia in night-shift workers. Caffeine is found 
in coffee , tea , yerba mate ( Ilex paraguaiensis ), guarana , cocoa , kola nut (this includes all cola drinks ); 
it is also found in "energy" sodas like Red Bull and similar, chocolate 
bars and other candy, and some people simply pop caffeine pills. Drink herbal 
teas or plain water instead of caffeine-containing liquids, and avoid the caffeine 
pills, too. The 
bedroom environment should be conducive to sleep. Some people are very sensitive 
to light while others are sensitive to noise. The bedroom should be dark and quiet 
at night. Practice 
good sleep hygiene. Do not use the bed for too many activities besides sleep. 
Using the bed for reading, writing, watching TV and other such non-sleep-related 
activities will lower your association of the bed with sleeping. Similarly, try 
to keep to a regular schedule of what time to go to bed and what time to wake 
up. Try not to sleep during the daytime. Sleep apnea can be a cause 
of insomnia. While a visit to the doctor will help in the diagnosis or ruling 
out of sleep apnea, a definitive answer will have to come from a study at a sleep 
lab. Sometimes lack 
of sleep is indicative of an emotional problem that's not being dealt with. If 
a person is not happy with their lifestyle, or they are putting off problems that 
should be dealt with, it can often result in sleeping trouble. Just as the human 
body has nutritional requirements, all people have social and environmental requirements. 
Sometimes more social activities can help. Patients 
with depression may suffer 
from insomnia. A doctor can treat this, sometimes by changing or adding prescriptions. Obscure allergies , such as dairy allergies, 
can sometimes cause sleeping disorders. Other symptoms may be very mild, such 
as slightly stuffed sinuses. A nutritionist can make helpful dietary and supplement 
recommendations. If 
an alarm has been set, avoid looking at the clock during the night and cover the 
display if necessary. This prevents mental calculations of how much sleep has 
been lost so far and how little sleep can be obtained before the alarm will sound. 
Accepting that the amount of sleep obtained can only be determined upon waking, 
not while waiting to get to sleep, may also be beneficial. A 
multifaceted approach Most 
people who have cured their insomnia have done so by reviewing and experimenting 
with many different cures. Usually, a combination of dietary and lifestyle changes 
is the most helpful approach. As with many similar health problems, a determined, 
across-the-board holistic approach to sleeping problems is the most effective 
solution. External 
links Sleep tips and information about 
insomnia, sleep disorders, sleep aids, overcoming sleeplessness, and more. ( http://www.shuteye.com ) AMBIEN has provided millions of people 
with a good night's sleep. ( http://www.ambien.com ) Treating insomnia with the "relaxation response". ( http://www.holistic-online.com/Remedies/Sleep/sleep_ins_relaxation.htm ) The 
relaxation response. ( http://www.ucop.edu/humres/eap/relaxationrespone.html ) An informational site about 
insomnia and insomnia treatments. ( http://www.getsomesleep.com ) Sponsored Links Careers 
and Employment · Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical · What are the Fastest Growing Careers? All text 
is available under the terms of the GNU 
Free Documentation License (see Copyrights for details). Disclaimers . 
Wikipedia is powered by MediaWiki , an open source wiki engine.. Copyright © 2005 
BIOTE