
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 01:18:10 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://backpaingo.net/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Back Pain Go ~~ Back Pain Causes, Symptoms, Treatment Back Pain Go Your Back Pain Relief Guide Skip to content Lower Back Pain Symptoms Posted on December 9, 2011 by admin It is mostly caused by fatigue and can only be overcome by proper rest. The symptoms may be pain while bending or moving back frontward. Lower back pain may remain for days or weeks with less severe pain. If it extends toward buttock or knee it may be due to sciatica. Common reason of back pain includes diseases or trauma to the muscles, bones and nerves of spines. Pain may be due to a problem in abdomen or due to the organs in it. These organs include pelvic girdle, buttock and bones. This is known as referred pain. A lot of infections including kidney disease, bladder infection reproductive infections (ovarian cysts) can cause less to severe pain. A pregnant woman can also experience lower back pain which is due to stretching of ligaments (joint between two muscles) within the pelvis and irritating nerves. Herniated disc results when the fluid called nucleus pulpous comes out of disc cavity and it suppresses the nerve root. Intervertebral discs begin to collapse by 60 years. This case is very rare. Sometimes moisture of discs is reduced and friction between the discs is increased which causes inflammation and nerve root impingement which can cause sciatica without disc degeneration. Old people can have this disorder and a slight trauma can make the condition severe. Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off Back Pain Due To Back Strain Posted on November 30, 2011 by admin Back strain is defined as stretched back muscle. The general reason of back pain is damaging of muscle by injury or any trauma. There can be many different reasons of back pain e.g. harm to spinal nerves, spinal joints or discs. Sciatica is another cause of back pain which can be due to damage of sciatica nerve. This nerve starts from buttock and leads to our legs and any problem in it can cause back pain. Sciatica can be caused by wrong administration of injection or any damage to it. Osteoarthritis can also be a cause of back pain. It is a common disease of joints in older or can also effect younger. When the flexibility of discs decreases then it may become a cause of herniated disc or slipped disc. This is due to reduction of fluid present is disc cavity. Tension and nervousness can also cause back pain. Tension and stress stimulates muscles to contract which becomes a cause of low blood pressure. This kind of back pain can be reduced by exercise. Effect of increased activity of muscles Back strain occurs due to lifting of something or making a movement which can cause a serious kind of trauma or may cause a disc of vertebral column to slip. The muscles which tear cannot be supplied with sufficient blood and become weak. Therefore a person should lift as much weight as he can. If a person lifts weight more than his power or ability then he may suffer from herniated disc. Effect of decreased activity of muscle There is another reason of back pain which is inactivity of muscles that support our vertebral column. When the contraction of muscles is decreased then the elasticity of muscles also diminishes.  The people who do not work to make themselves physically fit fail to live their lives happily. Because due inactivity muscles lose their strength and become vulnerable to back pain and back strain. Therefore continuous exercise is more necessary than overloading. Exercise to reduce back pain The most important thing to prevent back pain is to move your posture in a right a right way.  If one improves one’s posture then he can make himself young.  A fine posture falls out when you line up your body in a position which allows sufficient movement.  When you keep your body and muscles are in equilibrium you can do your daily activities better.  When you do not do this then your muscles do not work mutually and some of your muscles have to bear more burden as compared to others.  This can weaken some muscles and some muscles become a victim of fatigue. When these muscles have o bear continuous weight then they become stiff and become a cause of pain. Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off Upper Back Pain Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin In comparison to lower back pain , upper back pain occurs less frequently. Since, the thoracic spine, present in the upper back region, is not subjected to too much of movement as compared to lumbar spines, as a result the chances of it getting injured due to overuse is very less. Oftentimes, people suffering from upper back pain tend to develop neck pain, especially in cases where upper back pain has been triggered due to improper sitting posture. Poor posture often causes muscle fatigue or muscle strain, which in turn leads to upper back pain. Upper Back Pain Causes Some of the common upper back pain causes are: • Soft tissue or muscle problem: Tendons, ligaments and muscles are soft tissues, which provide support to the spinal cord. When the soft tissues get strained or sprained, owing to overuse or misuse, it triggers pain in the upper back region. • Improper posture: Sitting with shoulders arched forward, can inflict excessive pressure on the spine muscles. Improper sitting posture is among the most common upper back pain causes. • Incorrect lifting: When lifting things, you must exercise safe body technicalities so that the pressure does not fall on your spine. • Carrying heavy bag: Children often suffer from upper back pain, due to carrying heavy school bags on their shoulders. • Injury or trauma: Traumatic events, like automobile accidents, can trigger upper back pain. It can cause vertebra fracture, which can lead to severe back pain. • Other conditions : There are certain spinal conditions, which are capable of causing severe upper back pain. For instance: • Infections: Infections like paraspinal abscess or spinal epidural abscess can constrict the spinal nerves or spinal cord, inside the thoracic spine, resulting in back pain. • Osteoporosis: Osteoporosis is known to damage the bones. It makes them weaker, which make them more susceptible to fracture. Since, weakened vertebrae fails to provide proper support to the thoracic spine, it leads to upper back pain. • Problematic kyphosis: When observed from the side, the spine appears to bend towards the outside, near the upper back region. Such a bend is known as kyphosis curve. Different conditions, like osteoporosis, might lead to the development of awkward kyphosis, within the thoracic spine, causing upper back pain. • Scoliosis: Scoliosis produces a strange spinal curve, which appears like a ‘C’ or an ‘S’, from the backside. This leads to acute pain in the upper back region. Symptoms of Upper Back Pain Some of the common symptoms of upper back pain are: • Muscle spasm • Muscle stiffness • Muscle tightness • Muscle pain • softness when a wounded spot is touched Among most people, upper back pain leads to neck and shoulder pain. Treatment of Upper Back Pain Some of the common treatments for upper back pain are: • Physical Therapy Physical therapy is ideal for treating persistent upper back pain. It helps to reduce the pain in the muscles and backbone. Physical therapy comprise of active and passive treatment. Passive treatment consists of cold and hot treatment, electrical nerve stimulation and intense tissue massage. Active treatment comprises of different types of exercises, which helps in strengthening muscles and promote muscle flexibility. • Psychosomatic treatment Psychosomatic therapy comprises of training in meditation, deep breathing, relaxation, attentiveness, positive thinking as well as in visualization skills. • Surgery When conventional treatments fail, doctors advise patients, suffering from upper back pain, to undergo surgery. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Lower right Back Pain Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin Numerous of people form all across the globe suffer from lower right back pain. It is one of the most common types of back pain, which is caused due to various factors. Often it is impossible to identify the cause of the pain by yourself; hence, it is best to consult a doctor as soon as you feel a continuous, acute pain in your lower right side of your back. Causes of Lower Right Back Pain There are a number of causes that triggers lower right back pain. The most important cause is an injury. A critical injury, trauma or fracture can cause chronic pain, whereas a short-lived injury leads to severe back pain. • Injuries caused to the ligaments, joints or back muscles • Disproportion in muscles or muscle strain • Sciatic nerve compression • Herniated or ruptured disc • Kidney diseases such as kidney infection or kidney stone • Osteoporosis, obesity or spondylolysis • Wrong posture during sitting, walking, lifting objects or sleeping • Incorrect stretching exercises Symptoms of Lower Right Back Pain It is quite difficult to individually identify the symptoms of the pain. Hence it is best t consult a doctor in the early stages, as soon as an acute pain is felt in the lower right back region. The most common symptom is an aching, deep, piercing or dull pain, which move down the length of the leg. This symptom indicates that you are suffering from persistent lower right back pain. The second symptom is deep-seated, piercing pain, transpiring in the lower right side of the back region. This symptom normally indicates a back injury. Lower Right Back Pain Treatments It is best to treat lower right back pain in the early stages. In case the treatment gets delayed, the pain tends to deteriorate or might become constant. Treatment for lower right back pain includes appropriate medical therapy as well as certain back exercises. Firstly, you need to find out the cause of your lower right back pain. If the pain is caused because of stress, then you need to perform certain exercises, on a daily basis. • Exercises Bicycling, walking, swimming, particular machine exercises and aerobic exercises have found to be extremely useful in curing lower right back pain. Individuals experiencing lower right back pain must stay away from exercises and activities, which involve sudden lower back movements. Yoga practices are also extremely effective in healing the back pain. Other types of exercises, which can provide relief from lower right back pain, are cat stretch, lying supine hamstring stretch, pelvic tilt and camel stretch. • Home Remedies There are certain home remedies that can help to ease lower right back pain. As you carry out your specific exercises, on a daily basis, you also require eating a nutritious diet, which includes includes calcium. Since calcium helps to strengthen bones, it can significantly reduce back pain. You can also apply ointments for back pain or ice packs in order to get temporary relief. You can even have a hot water shower to get relieve from the pain. Oil massages are also known to be effective in reducing lower right back pain. Moreover, you need to maintain correct postures when standing, sitting and sleeping. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Lower Left Back Pain Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin A lot of individuals suffer from lower left back pain that tend to last for several days or months. At times, during particular times of the day, lower left back pain might increase to such a degree that it might become intolerable. Frequently, individuals suffering from lower left back pain feel a piercing back pain. For many, even alterations in diet plans fail to reduce the pain. A number of individuals who experience lower left back pain might also undergo discomfort and pain, during deep breathings, work out or lying still. Causes of Lower Left Back Pain The pain in the lower left back part of human body signifies some kind of intestinal problems. As a result, the most common causes of lower left back pain are Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), kidney stones, spondylolysis, osteoporosis, muscle imbalance, improper or excessive exercise, pregnancy, lifting extremely heavy objects, an inappropriately aligned spine like a herniated disc or obesity. Symptoms of Lower Left Back Pain Some of the common symptoms of lower left back pain, based on the causes that trigger the pain are briefly mentioned below; • Hypochondrias pain: For this cause symptoms comprise of pain below the rib cage, passed on from the spleen or colon. • Ectopic pregnancy: Symptoms involve pain in lower abdominal region, piercing pain or cramping near the pelvic region, vaginal bleeding, feeling lightheaded and dizziness. • Endometriosis: Symptoms are pain transpiring in the abdomen, lower back and pelvis region. Sometimes, these symptoms are followed by heavy vaginal bleeding. • Pancreatitis: Symptoms are persistent in nature and might involve abdominal pain, indigestion, back pain, foul smelling and oily stool and weight loss. • Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS): Symptoms include abdominal pain, headaches, diarrhea, chest pain and low back pain. • Peptic Ulcer: Symptoms are a burning chest pain, vomiting, nausea, weight loss, back pain and variation in appetite. • Gastroesophageal Reflux Disorder: Symptoms include chest pain, heartburn, back pain, dry cough or difficulty swallowing. • Gastrointestinal bleeding: Frequent causes are stomach ulcer, esophageal varices, erosions of the duodenum, stomach or esophagus; unusual blood vessels, duodenal ulcer, anal fissures, colon cancer, colon polyps, inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulosis and internal hemorrhoids. • Celiac Disease: Symptoms include weight loss, joint pain, back pain, fatigue and weakness, diarrhea, bone disorders like osteoporosis, anemia and abdominal cramps. • Radicular pain: Symptoms are pain accompanied by numbness, tingling sensation or weakness. Pain might be caused owing to trauma, injury, soft tissue, facet syndrome or disc herniation. • Kidney stones: Symptoms are pain in lower abdomen, groin region and underneath the ribs, pain near the torso region and back pain. Other symptoms are pain at time of urination, vomiting and nausea. • Gallstones: Symptoms are pain in-between the shoulder blades, pain in upper right and center abdominal region, pain in the right side shoulder and back pain. Other symptoms include suffering from abdominal pain after having meals. Treatment for Lower Left Back Pain Home remedies like ice and rest can help to reduce lower left back pain. Many doctors advise the use of back braces, which will help to provide support to the lower back region and hence will assist in minimizing pain. Aerobics and swimming are found to be extremely helpful in relieving the pain. When the pain is severe and continuing for an extended period of time then doctors normally suggest to go for surgery. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Lower Back Pain Exercises Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin It is a reliable method through which you can relief you from back pain. You don’t need to use medicine; you can get rid off lower back pain through exercise. Daily exercise is very necessary for the maintenance of health. Every physician suggests to do exercise for about 15 to 30 minutes daily. There are a lot of exercises to have relief from back pain. The following exercises will help you in doing such exercise. Lower Back Pain Exercise: First Step: Stretch out your body on your back. Try to wave your ankle. Repeat it for about 10 minutes. 2nd Step: Bend your knee on your thigh. Keep your body in this position for about 10 minutes. 3rd Step : Lean yourself with your back opposite to the walls. Slowly bending your knees. Then come back to your position after 5 minutes. Repeat it for about 10 minutes. 4th Step : Stretch yourself with your calf bended on a ball and keep your thigh straight. Then move one of  your arm slowly  over your head keeping other arm in rest position Go on with this 5 times. Repeat it for about 10 minutes. 5th Step : Sit on the ball with your arm up. Then move one of your heels with moving your opposite arm up. Keep on doing this for about 10 minutes. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Lower Back pain Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin Suffering from severe pain in the lower back region is extremely common among people, from all over the world, especially who are exposed to hectic lifestyle and extreme hard work. It is considered to be among the most common health problems, due to which people often consult doctors as well as get admitted to hospitals for proper treatment. For the majority of people, the symptoms tend to reduce within a couple of months’ time, regardless of the nature of the treatment being used. Doctors generally consider back pain to be of a serious kind, when it lasts for more than a month’s time. Causes of Lower Back Pain The most widespread causes of lower back pain are injury to the bones, muscles or spinal nerves or various diseases. Pain caused due to organ abnormalities inside the pelvis, chest or abdomen, can also lead to lower back pain. This type of pain is known as referred pain. A lot of disorders, that happen inside the abdomen, like aneurysms, appendicitis, kidney infection, kidney disease, pelvic infection, ovarian disorder and bladder infections, can trigger severe lower back pain. Back pain can also be caused due to normal pregnancy as well as owing to stretching of pelvis ligaments, pressure imposed on lower back and irritating nerves. Symptoms of Lower Back Pain The presence of pain within the lumbosacral region or lower back region is considered to be key sign for lower back pain. • The pain might spread out to the back, sides or front portion of your leg. In certain cases, the pain might remain restricted to the lower region of the back. • Many a times, activities tend to worsen the pain. • Seldom, at night the pain have a tendency to increase or it might get prolonged if a person remains in the sitting position for a very long time. • You might feel weakness or numbness in your legs, due to which you might have difficulty while standing on your toes. This happens when the initial sacral nerve is injured or compressed. Treatment for Lower Back Pain Some of the common treatments, often prescribed by doctors, for lower back pain are briefly mentioned below; • Placing a pillow in-between your knees, while sleeping or lying down on your sides, might make you feel comfortable. • Many doctors advise patients with back pain to lie on their back while keeping a pillow underneath their knees. • There is no particular back exercises that can offer relive to people suffering from severe back pain. However, people suffering from constant back pain might find certain exercises to be beneficial. • Certain nonprescription drugs might provide relief people from lower back pain. • Over the counter medicines like Ibuprofen, such as Nuprin, Motrin or Advil can prove to be highly beneficial for treating lower back pain , for a temporary period of time. Since, these medications can cause gastrointestinal bleeding and ulcers it is better to consult a doctor, regarding using these medications for an extended period of time. • Acetaminophen can also prove to be effective in reducing pain. • Many people also apply heat or ice, in order to get relieve from lower back pain. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Back Pain Relief Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin Ever in your life, if you have suffered from a back pain, you would know how it could spoil your entire day. The severity of backache can not be determined by the acuteness of the pain. A lot of time people tend to pay no heed to the pain till it becomes extremely serious. Often, people suffering from back pain have a tendency to avoid consulting a doctor until the pain becomes unbearable. It is sensible to deal with back pain from the very beginning, by means of natural remedies. Back Pain Natural Remedies • Apply Ice Packs : You can apply ice bag, filled with ice cubes on your bag, since it can help to relieve the discomfort and pain. • Have a Hot Shower : A hot shower will help to raise the muscle elasticity, which in turn will help your muscle to feel relaxed. It will also improve blood circulation and relieve you from mental tensions. • Massage : Another effective way of relieving back pain is by getting a relaxing message. When you receive a back message from a specialist, you will feel extremely relaxed and stress free and your back pain will slowly get reduced. • Unwind : It has been found that many times backache is triggered due to tensions and mental stress. Exams, excessive workload, family issues, business problems, etc. might also cause back pain. Practicing the right type of relaxation techniques, such as deep-breathing exercises or meditation can prove to enormously helpful. • Keep away from bed rest : Bed rest is often recommended by doctors for treating maximum health problems. However, for problems like back pain, doctors mostly recommend patients to avoid it. Rather they suggest people, suffering from back pain to keep moving around. • Exercise : Daily exercise can prove to be extremely beneficial in curing back pains. Doctors strongly stress on performing regular exercises in order to alleviate the stressed muscles. Physical activities such as walking and swimming can help in curing back pain. These type of exercises helps to tone and strengthen back and abdomen muscles. Aerobics can also assist in relieving back pain considerably. • Carry objects in the proper manner : It is important to hold heavy items, near to your body when you carry them. This will reduce the pressure, imposed on the back muscles. • Place a cushion behind your back : Whenever you sit, place a cushion, behind your back, in order to provide it adequate support. Most sofa and car seats will not provide proper support to your lower back. So, when you drive or sit on your sofa for relaxation, place a cushion behind your back. • Lie on a proper mattress : Avoid using uneven, soft, sagging mattress, since it might increase your existing back pain. Always sleep on a mattress, which is medium-firm. This will provide your back with proper support and comfort. • Avoid gaining excess body weight : Your total body weight should be proportionate to your stature, or else it will create pressure on your back, which will lead to acute back pain. A properly maintained body weight will help to significantly reduce your back pain . If you can follow the above-mentioned tips seriously, then you will be able to get relief from your back pain, to a greater extent. It will get reduced, significantly. However, even though you try out all these home remedies, it is always best to consult a doctor whenever you undergo a back pain. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Back Pain Exercises Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin What is an exercise: Whenever you are moving your body and its parts you are doing some kind of exercise as exercise is a name of physical activity. But we count that physical activity as an exercise which we do for some specific purpose with regularity and with some intensity. It is adopted to maintain you physically strong and fit. There are countless types of exercises which are advised for different purposes all over the world. To get rid of back pain only temperate and tender exercise is one of the best tips for suffering people. Gentle type exercise helps man to keep all joints and muscles of back at their proper place. Don’t create too much strain and man feel some comfort by exercise. Exercise should be consulted with some physician so that you can get better advantage from it. There are different types of back pain exercise to relieve from it. Types of back pain exercises: Different types of back pain exercises are as under: (1)   Stretching (2)   Strengthening (3)   Yoga (4)   Aerobic exercise Back Stretching Exercise: By stretching, your joints of back keep on moving and help to reduces back pain. The duration of stretching should not exceed ten minutes and should be done two times in a day. In this way you will feel a significant comfort from pain especially this kind of exercise is recommended to those people who are suffering from lower back pain. Lower part of your back, during lying and pulling knees, can easily be afforded by back bones without any pain and joints become mobile which lessen strain in your back muscles. First you have to stretch your hips to the extent of width which your two shoulders have by opening your feet, then you need to put your weight on your hip by stepping back and bend on your front side down to your leg. Try to make curve like C shape by your back and put your hands on your knees. In this way each part and joint of your back will stretch and move which relieves from pain too much. Sit in chair, put your legs on each other one by one and keep your arms away from knees and try to pull your upper part away from your legs. In this way, your back bone will have a rotation, back muscles will stretch and relax each time you cross your legs. All of this exercise is performed to give mobility to muscles and bones to lessen strain and tension on back which cause back pain. This exercise is most effective and highly recommended to relieve soon from back pain. Back Strengthening: If your muscles of back are strong then they can provide you a solid foundation to maintain disks and vertebrae. The core of muscles which is strong helps you greatly to reduce your lower back pain. Lie down your back by bending knees and keep your arms straight on floor. Produce strain in belly muscles by tightening them and try to pull lower part of back to lean your pelvis without pinching your buttocks. As you feel a little strength in back muscles, try to lift up hips from floor keeping back straight on floor. All of it will help you to support spinal core. Yoga: Yoga exercise has been very effective to relieve from back pain. Only difficulty in performing this exercise is to keep on hold your pose for a specific time. This exercise helps you giving strength to back muscles core and alleviates back pain. There are various yoga exercises but should be adopted if some physician recommends you to adopt. In sever pain conditions, these exercises are not allowed. These exercises are not easy to perform as they need to attend classes to make correct poses during exercise elsewhere these are not so beneficial. In yoga, you adopt those poses which help to lengthen vertebrae and spine such as to create a V shape of your body by leaning down such as dog; this stretch back muscles. It also includes a pose as that of a cobra for which you have to lie down on the support of your stomach putting your palms under your shoulder raising upper body off from floor. These initial exercises help you to reduce your back pain. Aerobic Exercise: Aerobic exercise are very simple and includes walking, swimming, jogging, biking, cycling but with holding your breath. If you try to grasp oxygen then this will called as anaerobic exercise. Aerobic exercise which is performed regularly increases your blood flow in your back muscles and joints and keeps them warm. Aerobic exercises are good to chose as they are of mild intensity and still have great affect in alleviating back pain. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Back Pain Posted on October 15, 2011 by admin Back Pain Overview Back pain, particularly lower back pain, has been found to be extremely widespread among adults, all across the world. Luckily, most types of back pains are short-lived. They are mostly caused due to short-term strain on ligaments or muscles, which tend to provide support to the spinal cord and not from any medical condition like kidney disease or nerve damage. It is one of the most common reasons, due to which people are forced to take leave from work. Back pain caused due to excessive work pressure is one of the most serious occupational hazards. Back Pain Causes There are several conditions that can lead to acute back pain, for instance, acute infection, physical injury as well as simple twisting. An injury caused owing to vehicle accident or other form of mishap can severely damage joints, muscles, vertebrae and ligaments. • Excessive pressure or strain imposed on the spine can cause severe pain in the back. This is considered to be the most common reason for back pain. This leads to spasm or tightening of the muscles, which are linked to the spinal cord. With increase in age, swelling and inflammation often crop up in the ligaments and joints, particularly in the lumbar and cervical regions. • When the internal disc material or nuclear pulposus causes damage to the elastic fibers’ capsule or annulus fibrosus, which encircles the disc, it leads to compression of the nerve root, which in turn causes the occurrence of a herniated disc. The lumbar and cervical sections of the spinal cord are extremely agile and active; hence, the discs present in these regions are highly prone to injuries or can easily wear down. The majority of the herniated discs happen in the two lower lumbar vertebrae. • Constant stress, on a regular basis, together with trivial injury can result in intervertebral disc degeneration. The elastic fibers’ capsule or annulus fibrosus, which encircles the disc, might undergo trivial tears and develop scar tissue. With the increase in the formation of scar tissue, the internal disc material or nuclear pulposus, starts to dry out. Eventually, the disc breaks down and considerably restricts the gap in-between the vertebrae, leading to spinal stenosis. • Spinal stenosis, often lead to spine irritation as well as injury. Some of the conditions that results in spinal stenosis are tumors, infection, trauma, arthritis, herniated disc, ligaments thickening, disc degeneration and development of bone spurs. • Radiculopathy or pinched nerve happens when something is pressed or rubbed against a nerve, causing inflammation or irritation. Radiculopathy is often caused due to herniated disc, tumor developing inside the nerves, bone spur as well as vertebral fracture. • Sciatica is another type of radiculopathy, which causes swelling of the sciatic nerve. It causes a lot of pain in the lower back region that continues down the buttocks and the legs. • Spinal tumor, which forms inside the spine, constricts the nerve roots or spine causing severe pain. • An infection, which forms inside the discs, the cerebrospinal fluid or within the meninges, can apply pressure on the spinal cord, which can lead to severe neurological degeneration, if treatment gets delayed. • Facet joints help in spine movement. When facet joints deteriorate, they might fail to align properly, and the fluid and cartilage, which acts as lubricate for the joints might worsen. This causes bones to rub against one another that lead to unbearable pain. • Joint and bone diseases like ankylosing spondylitis, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis can result in inflammation, compression of spinal nerve and degeneration. Back Pain Symptoms Since back pain is caused due to various reasons, it can be persistent occurrence or can be short-lived. The pain intensity can range from intense agony to a gentle ache. The pain might begin all of a sudden or can grow gradually. The majority back pain gets cured within a few weeks or days, without or with treatment. Conversely, a few people suffer from persistent pain, which continues for several months or even years. • Acute pain continuing for several days, devoid of any kind of improvement might entail immediate medical attention. You may find difficulty in urinating, lack of sensation in the genital or back area, legs becoming weak, excessive in the leg, feeling shaky when standing also calls for instant doctor’s attention. • Localized pain often referred to as tight, aching, stiff, burning, sore, pulling or throbbing, might worsen while sitting, bending, standing or walking. Such pains are felt more strongly when an individual wakes up from his sleep. • Pinched nerves cause tingling or numbness sensation, cold or warm sensations, and piercing pain or burning feel, which starts from the back area and spreads along the arm or leg. Activities like sneezing, walking or coughing might intensify the pain. • Compressed nerves lead to muscle weakness and numbness. A nerve or spinal infection can result in lethargy and fever and compression of spinal nerve symptoms. Back Pain Treatment • Home Remedies Immediate application of ice, within 48 hours after the occurrence of a muscle strain can significantly lower the pain. Ice helps to reduce swelling and inflammation, strengthens soft tissue, as well as slows down nerve impulses within the injured region. Once the acute pain and spasms get reduced, one can apply heat to relax tight muscles. Bed rest for a couple of days is also recommended for complete recover. • Medication Ibuprofen and Acetaminophen are extremely effective in relieving back pain. For severe back pain, doctors usually prescribe anti-inflammatory medicines like Celebrex®, muscle relaxants like Flexeril®, non-narcotic pain relievers like Tramadol®, as well as narcotic pain relieving medications. Sometimes doctors also prescribe oral steroid like prednisone for severe back pain. Even though initially doctors recommend a high dose of steroids to their patients, but gradually they reduce the dose. Few acute side effects caused due to the use of steroid are bone loss, headache, and weakened wound healing. Unceasing back pain produced due to damage to nerve root sometimes are treated by means of tricyclic antidepressants, like nortriptyline and amitriptyline. Side effects comprise of dry mouth, constipation and drowsiness. Anticonvulsant medications, like gabapentin, might lessen the pain, which is triggered by nerve degeneration as well as constant leg pain subsequent to surgery. Side effects comprise of dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, and weaken motor coordination. • Injections Steroid injections are prescribed by most doctors to reduce inflammation as well as to lessen pain triggered due to disc herniation, deteriorated disc disease and spinal stenosis. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Search for: Recent Posts Lower Back Pain Symptoms Back Pain Due To Back Strain Upper Back Pain Lower right Back Pain Lower Left Back Pain Lower Back Pain Exercises Lower Back pain