
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 22:08:56 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.16 OpenSSL/0.9.8m DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Mesa, Arizona Chiropractor - Triton Chiropractic & Rehab - Chiropractic, Back Pain, Disc Herniation Home Work Injury California Workers' Compensation Doctor in Mesa and Goodyear Services we Provide Sciatica Video Neck Pain Back Pain Sciatic Nerve Pain Weight Loss Program Acid Reflux Disease Manipulation Under Anesthesia Frozen Shoulder After Breast Cancer Surgery Headache Pain Migraine Pain D.O.T. Physicals and Drug Testing Nasal Arrangement Proper, N.A.P. Contact Us House Calls & Work Site Treatment! Conditions We Treat Chiropractic & Neck Pain Chiropractic & Back Pain Chiropractic & Headaches Repetitive Strain Injuries Recovering from Auto Injuries About Chiropractic Chiropractic Wellness Posture & Chiropractic Pregnancy & Chiropractic Care Videos Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Your Immune System How Chiropractic Works Recovering from Auto Injuries Live Crash Video Preventing Workplace Pain Understanding Brain Injury Auto Injuries for Attorneys Recovering from Sciatica Car Accidents and Pain Our Blog Location Chiropractic Office Hours All United States Workers' Comp Doctor in Mesa, Az. Numbness & Tingling Hands and Feet Chiropractic Treatment of Lumbar Disk Herniation Over the last few years, it has been recognized in  the medical literature that conservative treatment works best for many cases of  lumbar disk herniation. For patients with far-lateral, or extreme lateral  herniation, however, the effectiveness of conservative care is less certain.  This recent case study looked at the outcomes of nonsurgical management of a  client with far-lateral disc herniation. The 60-year-old male client was physically active,  and had been seen at a Spine Specialty Center previously for treatment for  lower back pain, which resolved. 15 months later, he presented at the Center  again with severe back pain (present for 3 weeks), with pain radiating to his  right buttock and calf. Presenting Symptoms: Score of 73 (out of 100) on the Oswestry Low Back  Questionnaire, and Numerical Pain Ratings of 6 (best) to 10 (worst) on a 1-10  scale. Difficulty transitioning from sitting to standing Altered gait Inability to assume erect position Lateral list to left Asymmetric static pelvic landmarks (right iliac  crest 4 degrees high posteriorly, 2 degrees high anteriorly with standing). Pain on right side with lateral and backward bends Initial treatment  included manipulation, traction, and passive movements.  This was followed up by instruction in self-correction exercises to be followed  at home. Follow-up consisted of: 2 days later: More  traction/passive movement and gradual increase in weight bearing, and  the patient was fitted with a back brace. 6 days later:  manipulation was performed and the patient returned to work  part-time. A MRI and surgical consult were also requested during this fourth  visit. The lumbar MRI showed a lateral L5, S1 disc rupture  with L5 nerve impingement; due to patient improvement, surgery was deferred.  The patient was at work full-time, with his primary complaint sitting  intolerance. With consultation, 1 week later a CT-guided transforaminal lumbar  epidural and nerve root steroid injection were performed. Three days later, leg  pain was reduced and the patient was sleeping better, was working full-time,  and was driving. The patient was then referred to physical therapy  for further rehabilitation. By the end of 4 weeks of physical therapy—8 weeks  after being seen initially for the herniation—the patient had achieved scores  of 0 on the Numeric Pain Scale, and of 2 (out of 100) on the Oswestry Low Back  Pain Questionnaire. During 2 follow-up visits at 14 weeks and 20 weeks  after the initial complaint, all scores were 0. The patient was exercising by  running or alternatively using a stair climbing machine with no pain, and  continuing his stabilization exercises. He was asymptomatic 1 year later at  follow-up. The study authors also note that this patient  responded well to nonsurgical intervention, but was very fit, motivated, and  compliant with treatment. The case study did demonstrate the fact that a  multi-disciplinary approach to treatment seems most effective: from  manipulation and passive motion/traction, to epidural steroid injection once  the effectiveness of these first interventions had plateaued, followed up by  physical therapy and ongoing exercises. Erhard  RE, Welch WC, Liu B, Vignovi M. Far-lateral disk herniation: case report,  review of the literature, and a description of nonsurgical management. Journal  of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics 2004;27:e3. Follow Us: Mesa, Arizona Headache Treatment Mesa, Arizona Nutrition & Chiropractic Mesa, Arizona Back Pain Treatment Mesa, Arizona Neck Pain Treatment Mesa, Arizona Auto Injury Treatment Mesa, Arizona Sports Injuries Mesa, Arizona Pregnancy & Chiropractic Mesa, Arizona Sciatica Treatment Mesa, Arizona Fibromyalgia Treatment Mesa, Arizona Shoulder Pain Treatment Mesa, Arizona Chiropractic & Fitness Mesa, Arizona Carpal Tunnel Treatment Mesa, Arizona Wellness Care Mesa, Arizona Herniated Disc Mesa, Arizona Stress & Chiropractic Triton Chiropractic & Rehab Dr. Gary L. Wagoner 1337 S Gilbert Rd Ste W Mesa, A