Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Chinese Herbal Cough Medicine: Alternative Cough Remedies that Work Home Dr. 
        Shen's Chinese Herbs Chinese 
        Herbs Chinese 
        Herb Store Ailments Shen 
        Clinic Chinese 
        Herbal Resources Guide 
        to TCM Alternative Chinese Herbal Cough Medicine TCM Diagnosis of Coughs Which Cough Medicine Works Best Safety of Chinese Cough Medicine Herbal Pills for Cough Find an Herbalist to Prescribe Cough Medicine, cough syrup, or cough drops E-Mail Consultations for Cough Medicine A Patient's Guide to Chinese Medicine by Joel Harvey Schreck Now available from BayTree Publications FREE SHIPPING $18.95 View Cart Dry Cough, Wet Cough, Whooping Cough, Croup, What are the Symptoms and Diagnosis of a cough according to traditional Chinese Medicine? Chinese medicine considers cough a form of rebellious qi. Qi is a general term refering to the body's vital energy. The lungs are called the umbrella organ, in that they protect the interior from invasive pathogens, like viruses, bacteria, molds, etc. The lung qi normally descends in order to nourish the other organs with oxygen. Coughing, means that the lung qi is going in the wrong direction. The body is intellegent, so the act of coughing is a sign that the lungs are  reacting logically to an abnormal event. This event can be an external invasion or an internal disharmony that has effected the function or structure of the lungs. Coughs that are reactions to pathogenic invasions are reacting to these irritants or trying to expell them. These conditions are called either Wind Cold or Wind Heat invasions and are considered superficial in nature. Coughs due to colds, flu, whooping cough, tuberculosis, croup, etc. are examples of Wind Cold or Wind Heat coughs. These coughs are treated with particular herbal cough medicines which are designed to Expell Wind or treat surface conditions. Such cough medicine may also contain herbs that subdue viral, bacterial, or fungal infections. Formulas and products for these coughs will be listed in this article. Coughs resulting from internal disharmonies, such as asthma, emphysema, lung cancer, drug reactions,  etc. are treated with a different type of cough medicine, consisting of herbs to relieve cough, combined with herbs that address the partcular disharmony. This article does not offer formulations or prepared cough medicine for internal disharmony. This kind of cough medicine is best created by a professional Chinese herbologist who can diagnose the condition according to the principles of Chinese medicine. Which Chinese cough medicine, cough remedy, cough drops and cough syrups are right for your cough? If you know your cough is caused by a cold or other invasive disease, the following cough medicines may be appropriate. If your cough exists at the onset of an upper respiratory infection a cough medicine like Sang Ju Yin pills may help, because it contains several anti viral herbs. This cough medicine can be useful for both dry coughs and productive coughs. It is most useful for coughing at the beginning of a cold or flu. To improve the results combine it with Hsiao Ke Chuan Cough Pills or Hsiao Ke Chuan cough syrup . If the cough is very phlegmy or phlegm is thick or difficult to expectorate add Fritallaria Expectorant Pills. If the phlegm is clear or white use Pinellia Expectorant Pills . Both may be taken simultaneously when phlegm color varies. A dry cough that follows an upper respiratory infection is likely caused by lung dryness and irritation of the respiratory system. The body exhausts the lung qi and lung yin (fluids) when fighting the infection. This kind of cough can be impossible to treat with Western medicine and can persist for weeks, months, or longer. Dry Cough Pills is a cough medicine that can often cure these coughs in a few days. Cough syrups and cough drops made with honey or loquat can also help to sooth a dry cough. Safety of herbal cough medicine Chinese herbal cough medicine is far safer than cough medicine containing drugs like codeine, pseudoephedrine, or virtually any pharmaceutical, and they are far more effective as well. False rumors, ignorant press, and pharmaceutical industry publicity has made some people nervous about the purity and safety of Chinese herbal medicine. Don't be fooled. Though bad medicine can exist, rest assured that all cough medicine recommended on this site is safe for toddlers, children and adults. Infants under one year of age, however, should not be given cough products made with honey, because of the risk of infant botulism. Wet Cough Pill Concentrated herbs, An herbal remedy for wet or phlegmy cough. Do not use for dry cough . 60 capsules 500 mgs. for price or to buy View Cart DRY COUGH PILL Easily the most effective remedy for persistant dry cough caused by lung weakness. Not used for very phlegmy coughs . 100 capsules 500 mgs. for Price or to buy View Cart How to find an herbalist to prescribe the right cough medicine. Chinese herbalists are not available everywhere. To find one near you, go to AcupunctureAmerica.com. Phone the acupuncturists in your area, and ask if they use and have training in Chinese herbal medicine. If you cannot find one, e=mail consultations are available here . E-MAIL CONSULTATIONS FOR HERBAL COUGH MEDICINE $60 USD A consultation consists of several e-mail exchanges resulting in an herbal prescription, treatment plan and possibly other suggestions. Consutations do not include the cost of herbs . In your first e-mail, briefly describe yourself. Mention your gender, age, occupations, symptoms (including how long you've had them for) and any Western diagnosis. List the medicines you use and occasions when you have been hospitalized for any reason. Attachments such as photos or videos are OK, but not necessary. View Cart After purchasing a consultation e-mail to: questions@drshen.com recommend this article CUSTOM FORMULAS For Stubborn Colds Information on this site is provided for educational purposes and is not meant to substitute for the advice of your own physician or other medical professional.   Shen Herb Inc.makes no claims as to efficacy or safety of products appearing on this site. Information and statements regarding dietary supplements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. top of page Chinese Medicine and Chinese Herbs for ..... Chinese Herbal Acne Medicine Chinese Medicine for Alcoholism Chinese Herbal Allergy Medicine Chinese Medicine for Alzheimer's Chinese Medicine for Anxiety Chinese Medicine for Arthritis Chinese Medicine for Asthma Chinese Medicine for ADD/ADHD Chinese Medicine for Back Pain Chinese Herbs for Balding Chinese Medicine for Bleeding Chinese Herbs for Breast Cancer Chinese Medicine for Bronchitis Chinese Medicine for Burns Chinese Medicine for Cancer Chinese Medicine for Cholesterol Chinese Medicine for Colds and Flu Chinese Medicine for Constipation Chinese Medicine for Cysts Chinese Medicine for Diabetes Chinese Medicine for Diet Chinese Medicine for Depression Chinese Medicine for Detox Chinese Medicine for Diarrhea Chinese Medicine for Digestion Chinese Medicine for Eczema Chinese Medicine for Energy Chinese Medicine for Epilepsy Chinese Medicine for Eye Problems Chinese Medicine for Fertility Chinese Medicine for Fibromyalgia Chinese Medicine for Flu Chinese Medicine for Fungus Chinese Medicine for Gall Stones Chinese Medicine for Glaucoma Chinese Medicine for Gray Hair Chinese Medicine for Hangovers Chinese Medicine for Hair Loss Chinese Medicine for Headaches Chinese Medicine for the Heart Chinese Herbs for Health Chinese Medicine for Hepatitis Chinese Medicine for Hemorrhoids Chinese Medicine for HIV Chinese Medicine for High Blood Pressure Chinese Medicine for IBS Chinese Medicine for Immunity Chinese Medicine for Impotence Chinese Medicine for Infertility Chinese Medicine for Injury Chinese Medicine for Insomnia Chinese Medicine for Itch Chinese Herbs for Jaundice Chinese Herbs for Kidney Stones Chinese Herbs for Lice Chinese Medicine for Malaria Chinese Herbs & medicine for Men Chinese Medicine for Mental Illness Chinese Medicine for Memory Chinese Medicine for Menopause Chinese Herbs for Morning Sickness Chinese Medicine for Muscle Pain Chinese Medicine for Nausea Chinese Medicine for Parasites Chinese Medicine for Pain Chinese Medicine for PMS Chinese Herbs for Pregnancy Chinese Medicine for Prostate Chinese Medicine for Psoriasis Chinese Herbs for Sex Chinese Medicine for Sinusitis Chinese Medicine for Skin Chinese Medicine for Sore Throat Chinese Herbs for Sports Chinese Medicine for Stomach Chinese Medicine for Stress Chinese Medicine for Thyroid Chinese Medicine for Tinnitus Chinese Medicine for Weight Loss Chinese Herbs for Women Chinese Medicine for Warts Medicine for Yeast Infections Herbal Medicine Products Dr. Shen's Chinese Herbal Medicines Shen Clinic's Chinese Herbal Medicines Bulk Chinese Herbs (Whole Herbs and Herbal Extracts) Plum Flower Brand Imported Chinese Medicines Seven Forest Brand Chinese Medicine for Practitioners Health Concerns Brand Herbal Medicines for Practitioners Spring Wind Herbs Topical Chinese Herbal Medicines Chinese Patent Medicine About Dr. Shen Where To Buy Dr. Shen's Chinese Herbal Medicine Products Who is Dr. Shen? The Shen Clinic, Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Since 1987 All About Chinese Medicines How Herbal Medicines are Made Chinese Herbal Medicine FAQ Impurities in Herbal Medicine California Proposition 65 Chinese 
      Herbal Remedies for Other Common Ailments To Order Call Toll Free 1-877-922-4372 Home Dr. Shen's Chinese Herbs Chinese Herbs Chinese Herb Store Shen Clinic Products Shen Clinic Chinese Patent Medicines Guide to TCM © Copyri