
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 12:50:08 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding
X-UA-Compatible: IE=EmulateIE8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Summit Medical Group - Varicose Veins Searching . . . We Recommend Doctors and Practitioners Specialties & Services Live Well Library Other Results See more search results Follow us on: We are here to help: 908-273-4300 Home Services Practitioners Live Well Library My Summit Medical Group E-mail Page Digg Reddit LinkedIn Facebook Delicious StumbleUpon Twitter Live Well Library > Adult Health Advisor > Varicose Veins Varicose Veins What are varicose veins? Varicose veins are veins close to the skin that are swollen or 
stretched. Veins in the legs and pelvic area are most often 
affected. Varicose veins are more common in women. They can appear 
at any time in adulthood, especially during or after pregnancy. 
They may worsen as you get older. Spider veins are similar to varicose veins, but they are smaller. 
They often look red or blue and are closer to the surface of the 
skin than varicose veins. They may look like a spider web or tree 
branch. Spider veins are most often found on the legs or the face. How do they occur? Unlike the arteries, the veins have no muscle tissue. Veins use 
the muscles in our feet and legs to return blood, against gravity, 
to the heart. To help this process, the veins have a series of 
valves in them that prevent blood from flowing backward. When 
these valves stop working properly, the blood has trouble moving 
upward. The blood backs up in the veins where the valves no longer 
are working. These swollen veins are varicose veins. Factors that may contribute to this condition are pregnancy, 
excess weight, and standing on your feet for long periods of time. 
Constipation may cause varicose veins in the rectal area 
(hemorrhoids). Varicose veins tend to run in families, so heredity 
is a factor also. What are the symptoms? Varicose veins in your legs are enlarged and may look blue, 
twisted, or ropelike. You may have no other symptoms, or you may 
have: swelling in the legs, ankles, or feet cramps or general aching in the legs or aching in the area 
where the veins are swollen feeling of heaviness in legs, or leg muscles that tire easily itching of the skin around the veins discoloration or sores on your skin, especially near the 
ankle, from poor circulation. How is it diagnosed? Your healthcare provider will examine you and check your legs 
while you are standing. If you are having symptoms, your provider 
may also order tests, such as an ultrasound exam, to check blood 
flow and make sure you do not have a blood clot. How is it treated? There are many ways to treat varicose veins. A combination of 
treatments often produces the best results. The main treatment is wearing elastic stockings for support during 
daily activities. If you have leg swelling along with varicose 
veins, these stockings are especially important for preventing 
skin sores. To keep varicose veins from getting worse, try: walking often (to help the muscles move the blood upward, out 
of the legs) elevating your feet avoiding standing for a long time. A medical treatment called sclerotherapy involves injecting a 
chemical solution into spider veins and small varicose veins. The 
chemical causes the veins to close and forces the blood to flow 
through healthier veins. Injections are done with little 
discomfort and without anesthesia in a healthcare provider's 
office. Several treatment sessions may be needed. This procedure 
makes your legs look better, but it may cause worse problems 
later. Some possible complications of sclerotherapy are: darkening of the skin where the vein was removed (this usually 
goes away in a few months) temporary redness and tenderness of the vein that was treated reopening of the a vein after treatment development of new enlarged veins in the area where a vein was 
treated. Duplex ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy is a newer technique used 
to treat more severe varicose veins. Duplex guidance is used to 
position a catheter in the desired location, and then a strong 
irritating solution is injected into the veins. Another treatment uses a laser to treat varicose veins. It 
eliminates the need for injections and may reach veins too small 
for a needle to easily pass through. Laser treatment works by 
sending very strong bursts of light onto the vein. The light makes 
the vein slowly fade and disappear. Two or three treatment 
sessions are usually needed. Surgery may be needed to remove large varicose veins. One method 
that leaves only very small scars is called ambulatory 
phlebectomy. This procedure can be done in the healthcare 
provider's office. Tiny cuts are made in the vein, and then with 
surgical hooks, the vein is pulled out of the leg. How long will the effects last? The symptoms will last as long as you have varicose veins. They 
may get worse without treatment. How can I take care of myself? Raise your legs to a level higher than your heart as often as 
you can. Rest often. Raise your feet when you sleep by propping them on a pillow. Avoid crossing your legs when you are sitting. Avoid wearing girdles, control-top pantyhose, or garters. Wear support hose. To increase circulation, exercise regularly according to your 
healthcare provider's recommendations. Lose weight if you are overweight. Avoid constipation. What can I do to help prevent varicose veins? Avoid sitting or standing in one position for a long time. When you are sitting, exercise your calf muscles (for example, 
by raising your heels up and down) to promote normal blood 
flow. Exercise regularly to maintain good muscle tone, good 
circulation, and normal weight. Developed by Phyllis G. Cooper, RN, MN, and RelayHealth. Published by RelayHealth. © 2009 RelayHealth and/or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Live Well Libraries Adult Health Advisor Behavioral Health Advisor Cardiology Advisor Eye Advisor Medication Advisor Pediatric Advisor Senior Health Advisor Sports Medicine Advisor Women's Health Advisor © Summit Medical Group 2011 | urgent care | bill payments | insurance | m