Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Varicose Vein Symptom | Causes | Prevention | Treatment Varicose Vein Symptom Learn about varicose vein symptom, definition, symptoms, causes, prevention, diagnosis, and the various options for varicose veins treatments. Definition of Varicose Veins The swollen and twisted veins close to the skin surface are referred to as varicose veins. In simple words, veins are defined as the vessels which redirect blood towards the heart soon after oxygen is supplied to the tissues of the body. Valves together with the veins allow the flow of blood in a single direction but defective or weak valves allow the flow of blood in a backward direction. If the veins are obstructed for a prolonged period of time then this can also lead to varicose veins. This condition is more common in women. It generally occurs in legs, however, in rare cases it may also appear in the anal region (this condition is referred to as hemorrhoids). It is true that varicose veins are not a severe health hazard but then you can get them removed if they have turned into a discomfort for you. Varicose Vein Symptom Varicose vein symptom includes: Enlarged, knotted, swollen, bunch of purple colored veins. Edema (a condition when the legs get swelled up). Pain in legs A sensation that your legs are feeling heavy The skin which is immediately above the concerned veins itches Skin gets discolored and ulcers are prominent on the interior side of your ankles ( this condition holds true if your problem is at an advanced stage) Cause of Varicose Veins The exact causes that lead to varicose veins are still not known. However, people consider the following to be some of the potential causes that lead to varicose veins: Chronic venous Hereditary factors ( German and Irish people run at a greater risk of developing varicose veins) Pregnancy Prolonged sitting or standing Obesity Sedentary lifestyle Aging How to Prevent Varicose Veins Ensure maintaining a stable body weight. Make sure to include a routine workout in your day to day activities. Don’t stand or sit for a prolonged period of time. Keep your legs raised above your hip level all through the day. Avoid keeping your legs crossed when in a seated position. Don’t choose tight belts, shoes or other uncomfortable clothing. Medical Diagnosis You don’t always need to call up a doctor so as to diagnose this condition. Instead you can yourself make out whether you are suffering from this condition or not by keeping a keenly observing your veins. However, there are cases when the patient may be asked to go in for a x-ray with a contrast medium’s injection (this is commonly referred to as venography) into the veins. Varicose Veins Treatments Options of varicose veins treatments include: Make sure to put into practice the suggestions included in the prevention section Wear elastic stocking that have been specifically designed for support. It is because these stockings help in preventing the flow of blood from your veins During night, make sure that your bed’s foot is above two or four inches and is supported with blocks. This sort of an approach ensures blood circulation during night Surgical ligation and removal of varicose veins turns out to be another option in a severe case It is true that you may experience an itching sensation on the skin just above the surface that has been affected by varicose veins. However, you need to restrain from scratching the same as it can lead to profuse bleeding or ulceration In case of external varicose veins, you can go in for sclerotherapy (a process where chemicals are injected into the veins so as to harden as well as shrink them). Through this process blood is redirected via other veins Varicose Vein Symptom | When to Call your Doctor If you find that your varicose veins’ problems are hindering your daily activities then ensure consulting a doctor at the earliest. Consult your doctor in case you find ulcers developing on your veins. Go from Varicose Vein Symptom to Medical Symptoms Medical Symptoms Search Symptoms: A-C D-K L-Q R-Z Home Contact Us Symptoms Blog Privacy Policy Advertising Information Terms and Conditions Resources Copyrigh