<http://wp.me/pyA9G-3sa>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 04:48:03 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: d70c3b3c1710079adbc54fb96e2452c0
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 03:48:03 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

Varicose Veins Treatment & How to Treat Varicose Veins | St.Botanica.com Beauty Body Breast Care Dating Fitness Health Q & A Q & A Relationships Romance Sexual Home » Health » Varicose Veins Treatment Varicose Veins Treatment 15 September, 2010 Written by Rakesh Kumar Lakshman Tweet Varicose Veins can be successfully treated; the only trouble is that there may be chances of it returning. Mostly they do not cause much pain but after a certain period of time when it does it becomes necessary to find the right treatment. Your blood provides your entire body with oxygen and other essential nutrients. But, this flow of oxygenated blood is disrupted incase of those suffering from varicose vein s which causes Chronic venous insufficiency which in turn leads to varicose eczema, ulcers and hardening and tightening of the skin (Lipodermatosclerosis). Varicose veins can be treated without surgery using Compression stockings, exercising, maintaining your weight, avoiding standing or sitting for long hours. But sometimes, if the area is hurt and has been bleeding or if the ulcers formed still persist and turns out to be more painful even after treating it or if you experience a burning sensation, excruciating pain, swelling or blood clotting, surgeries may be advised. Most surgeries are conducted with use of a local anesthesia. Sclerotherapy is the most common method which is used either in liquid (to treat small varicose veins) or foam form (to treat large veins). In this procedure a chemical, sclerosant, is injected in the vein which damages it and blocks it. Laser therapies too may be use such as Endovenous laser treatment where a laser is passed through the insides of the vein heating the walls of the vein and closing it. Another similar method but relatively new is Radiofrequency Ablation wherein high frequency electrical current is given to heat the walls of the veins thereby closing it. Besides these, there are some lesser known treatments are the phlebectomy, where small incisions are made on the leg and hooks are used to pull the vein out. Another alternative is where the method of suction is used to remove the veins cut in the same manner as in phlebectomy. Treating varicose becomes very essential to correct certain complications or lying problems caused by varicose veins or to remove the damaged veins. Sometimes people undertake these procedures mainly for cosmetic reason i.e. solely to improve the way their legs look not because of any other complication. Mostly sclerothrapy or laser therapies are used in these cases if all other health factors are fine. If you enjoyed this post, please consider leaving a comment or subscribing to the RSS feed. Tweet Tags: Chronic venous insufficiency, Compression Stockings, Endovenous laser treatment, Laser therapies, Lipodermatosclerosis. hardening and tightening of the skin, local anesthesia, method of suction, phlebectomy, remove the damaged veins, treat large veins, Varicose Veins Treatment, Subscribe to Magazine Follow @stbotanica Popular My vagina is very loose; I want to tight my vagina ( 24,091 views) Mustard Oil For Skin Care ( 22,303 views) Why Do Some People Feel Cold All The Time? ( 20,632 views) What is Lipoma? ( 19,427 views) How To Arouse The Passion Of Every Woman ( 18,019 views) How can I make my breasts firm? ( 16,373 views) Signs He’s Just Not That Into You ( 16,173 views) How can I tighten my vagina? ( 13,353 views) How to Get Christiano Ronaldo Hair? ( 12,563 views) Why do Men Lose Interest? ( 10,043 views) Feather Cut Hair ( 9,569 views) Side Effects of Pueraria Mirifica ( 8,153 views) Erogenous Zones Of A Woman ( 8,088 views) Five Foods That Flatten Your Stomach ( 7,725 views) Top 5 Most Expensive Fashion Items ( 6,718 views) Recent Posts Best Home Remedies For Swimmer’s Ears Effective Home Remedies For Canker Sores Effective Home Remedies For Ringworms Effective Home Remedies For Cold Sores Effective Home Remedies For Pink Eye Effective Home Remedies For Plantar Warts Common Symptoms Of Ovarian Cysts Rupture Effective Herbal Remedies For Gout 8 Homemade Recipes With Coconut Oil For A Radiant Skin Quick Exercises To Tighten Your Butt Effective Home Remedies For UTI Natural Remedies For Fibroids Alternative Treatments For Psoriatic Arthritis How To Manage Joint Pain From Chemotherapy Natural Remedies For Restless Leg Syndrome Recent Posts Best Home Remedies For Swimmer’s Ears Effective Home Remedies For Canker Sores Effective Home Remedies For Ringworms Effective Home Remedies For Cold Sores Effective Home Remedies For Pink Eye Proud Theme of... Follow Us Subscribe Rss Feed Follow us on Twitter Join Facebook Blogroll Breast Cream Breast Guide Breast Pills Breast Serum Butea Superba Capsules Butea Superba Gel Lady Secret Serum Copyright © 2012