
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:16:18 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 04:16:18 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Prevent UTI - How to Prevent UTI About.com Health Women's Health Women's Health Search Women's Health Topics A-Z Sexual Health Healthy Living Share Discuss in our forum 10 Ways to Prevent Urinary Tract Infections How to Reduce Your Risk of UTI From Tracee Cornforth , former About.com Guide Updated January 08, 2010 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the Medical Review Board See More About: uti symptoms uti causes uti prevention cranberries uti home remedies Nine million doctor's office visits each year are due to urinary tract infections, or UTIs. The only thing patients visit the doctor for more often are respiratory tract infections, such as the common cold. Unfortunately, the majority of cases of UTI occur in women. What can you do to help prevent urinary tract infections from interfering with your life? According to the National Institutes of Health, health professionals recommend the following tips to reduce your risk of developing a UTI. Water helps flush your urinary tract, so make sure you drink plenty of plain water daily. More: You Are What You Drink Don't hold it when you need to urinate! Women are often guilty of trying to finish a task before they go to the bathroom. Holding it when you need to go can help any bacteria that may be present develop into a full-fledged urinary tract infection. You've probably heard that you should wipe from front to back after a bowl movement. This is especially important to help prevent bacteria from the anus from entering the vagina or urethra. Taking showers instead of baths helps prevent bacteria from entering the urethra and causing a UTI. Always wash your genital area both before and after sexual intercourse to help prevent transferring bacteria to the urethra or vaginal area, which can create a breeding ground for a UTI. More: Personal Hygiene and UTI Feminine hygiene sprays and douches, particularly scented douches, can irritate the urethra and possibly lead to a UTI. Avoiding these products will help prevent not only urinary tract infections, but also other infections and irritations that these products may cause. More: The Douche Debate Drinking cranberry juice is a fairly well-known and natural way to both help prevent urinary tract infections, as well as help speed the recovery process when a UTI develops. Just drinking two 4-ounce glasses of cranberry juice daily is often enough to both prevent a UTI and speed recovery when an infection does develop. Another nutritional route that may help prevent UTI is regularly taking vitamin C supplements. Vitamin C increases the acidity level of urine, which in turn helps decrease the number of harmful bacteria that may be present in your urinary tract system. Always wear panties with a cotton crotch. Cotton fabric lets moisture escape while other fabrics can trap moisture, creating a potential breeding ground for bacteria. If you are one of a large number of women who suffers from frequent, recurrent urinary tract infections, a change in your position during sexual intercourse may help reduce the number of UTIs that you experience. Changing sexual positions may reduce friction on your urethra and reduce your risk of recurrent UTI. Women who suffer from extremely frequent urinary tract infections may be prescribed an antibiotic to take immediately after sex to help prevent the likelihood of urinary tract infection occurrence. Source: Urinary Tract Infections. NIH.gov. http://www.nichd.nih.gov/health/topics/urinary_tract_infections.cfm. Accessed 08/21/2009. Suggested Reading The Symptoms of Urinary Tract Infections Can Home Remedies Cure UTI? Urinary Tract Infections Suggested Reading UTI - Tips For Coping With Painful Urinary Tract Infections or UTI Bladder Infection - How Can I Treat a Bladder Infection Vaginal and Urinary Tract Infections Related Articles What Can I Do to Prevent Urinary Tract Infections or UTI? Understanding UTI Treatment of Urinary Tract infections (UTI) What are the treatments for frequent or recurrent urinary tract infections ... Sex and Urinary Tract Infections - Why Urinary Tract Infections Are Linked ... Related Video Prevent or Treat Cold and Flu Prevent Accidental Poisonings More Videos See All About.com Videos Related Searches respiratory tract infections ounce glasses urinary tract infections feminine hygiene national institutes of health sexual intercourse Explore Women's Health Must Reads Going to the Gynecologist Menstruation Basics Pregnancy Signs and Symptoms Birth Control Myths Top Causes of Heavy Menstruation Most Popular Urinary Tract Infections Causes of Vaginal Bleeding Bleeding Between Periods Bumps and Lumps Below the Skin Pregnancy Signs and Symptoms See More About: uti symptoms uti causes uti prevention cranberries uti home remedies By Category Birth Control Menstruation Heart Health Menopause Breast Health and Diseases Sexual Health Female Reproductive Health Fitness and Health Pregnancy Teen Health Mental Health Cancer Women's Health Glossary Diseases and Conditions Health and Beauty Women's Health About.com Health Women's Health Female Reproductive Health Urinary Conditions Urinary Tract Infections Prevent UTI - How to Prevent UTI Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod