
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2012 11:18:08 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.42 (Unix) mod_balance/0.3 mod_gzip/1.3.26.1a mod_auth_passthrough/1.8 mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 PHP-CGI/0.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Research - The role of acupuncture in the treatment of migraine | Health Information | News | Alberta College of Acupuncture & Traditional Chinese Medicine Home Portal Professional Training Training Programs Prospective Students Download Centre Policies Community ACATCM Library browse and reserve Students Corner student's blog Training programs Doctor of Acupuncture Acupuncture has been broadly accepted in Canada and is increasingly getting popular. Join the profession and become an acupuncturist! Dr. of Traditional Chinese Medicine Our life style has been influenced by these thousand years of practice from the East. TCM is not only a ancient medicine but philosophy to many. Health Information Knowledge Centre Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine acupuncture and Chinese medicine explained in details Introductions Fundamentals Meridians Acupuncture Points Health Conditions what can acupuncture and Chinese medicine do Infertility Women's Health Pain Others Patient Care College Clinic Intern Clinic Faculty Clinic Alumni Clinics Associated Clinics FAQs News News and Events About Us Who we are About Us Faculty Photos Visions and Missions Where we are Contacts Us Alumni Clinic Directory Home News Health Information Research - The role of acupuncture in the treatment of migraine Research - The role of acupuncture in the treatment of migraine Most of Canadian local news stations recently reported treating migraines by acupuncture after Dr. Molsberger, MD, of the Canadian Medical Association wrote “acupuncture is more effective than no acupuncture” and is at the very least “as effective as a B-blocker (beta blocker)” on treating migraines. Acupuncture is “effective and safe”, it is “more effective than flunarizine in decreasing the duration of migraine attacks.” Although acupuncture and sham acupuncture (where the needles are inserted only to a superficial depth in the skin, or into sites that are not considered acupuncture points in traditional medicine) appear equally effective in treating migraines. Dr. Albrecht Molsberger later on told Reuters Health "sham acupuncture is not a true placebo -- and may have real physiological effects". There are much debate and discussions regarding acupuncture and sham acupuncture . The truth is, they all are acupuncture . Dr. Benny Xu pointed out that: Acupuncture points not associated with meridians are common, and those un-named points called A-shi points in acupuncture . Regarding of the depth of the needle insertion, those are relative to patients size, weight, skin thickness, muscle density, size of the needle, patients sensitivity to pain, etc. To download Dr. Molsberger's full article, Subscribe here . News - Health Information 13-03-2012 Research - Acupuncture may help prevent xerostomia in cancer patients Lorenzo Cohen, PhD, professor in the Department of General Oncology and in the Department of Behavioral Science at The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, and coworkers randomize... Read more 12-03-2012 Research - MRI Acupuncture Research on Point Specificity Researchers from the Department of Medicine at the University of California, Irvine, recently noted that a hemodynamic study of acupoint P6 showed that this acupuncture point “decreased heart rate and... Read more 04-03-2012 Fertility 101 QUIT SMOKINGWomen who smoke can experience menopause on average two years earlier. Smoking also constricts blood vessels, including those that feed the ovaries, which accelerates the loss of eggs.
KE... Read more 02-03-2012 Fibromyalgia can be treated with acupuncture Fibromyalgia means "pain of the muscle fiber." The most characteristic symptom is a high level of muscle pain. Other symptoms include exhaustion or overwhelming fatigue, sleep disorder and very stiff ... Read more 02-03-2012 Research - Acupuncture improves sleep New research concludes that acupuncture benefits sleep. A controlled trial conducted on pigs measured sleep outcomes when the subjects received acupuncture at acupoints GV20 and Dafengmen (an acupoi... Read more 30-01-2012 Acupuncture may help women conceive through in-vitro fertilization (IVF) According to a new research, women who are getting electronic acupuncture session for infertility treatment might have a higher chance of conceiving. The study published in the journal Fertility and... Read more 20-01-2012 Acupuncture Face Lift Eliminates Injections, Surgery For centuries acupuncture has been used to treat illness and promote health and wellbeing. Now cosmetic acupuncture is treating the signs of an aging face. Can we say goodbye to Botox injections and p... Read more 09-01-2012 Research - The role of acupuncture in the treatment of migraine Most of Canadian local news stations recently reported treating migraines by acupuncture after Dr. Molsberger, MD, of the Canadian Medical Association wrote “acupuncture is more effective than no acup... Read more 21-11-2011 Study - Acupuncture safe for under-18 Acupuncture is increasingly used in children; however, the safety of pediatric acupuncture has yet to be reported from systematic review.
A recent study concluded "support those from adult studies,... Read more 27-09-2011 Study - Electro-acupuncture boosts IVF success Not until 2002, a study in Germany was the first to report that traditional needle acupuncture seemed to improve pregnancy rates in women undergoing IVF. Recently, the researchers, led by Rong Zhang... Read more The Moment American Cancer Society to begin Daffodil Days - WNDU-TV Bangladesh's “teenage” brothels hold dark steroid secret - Updated News Dalhousie faces support staff strike - CBC.ca Red meat: Passport to untimely death? - Nigerian Tribune VPD to consider new guidelines for dealing with sex workers - CKNW News Talk 980 Follow us on User Login Login Close Username Password Remember Me Forgot your password? Forgot your username? Create an account News - in the media Arizona Pain Management Center You Tube Channel Exceeds 40000 Views - PR Web (press release) Erie hospital offers acupunture to patients - GoErie.com Acupuncturist works to bring patients' bodies back into balance - Daytona Beach News-Journal Chiropractor takes multi-disciplinary approach - Alton Telegraph Chiropractor Offers Vancouver Massage Therapy for Athletes and Fitness Enthusiasts - MarketWatch (press release) You are here: Home News Health Information Research - The role of acupuncture in the treatment of migraine Scroll to Top Alberta College of Acupuncture & Traditional Chinese Medicine 125, 4935 - 40th Ave N.W. Calgary, Alberta Canada T3A 2N1 403-286-8788 Email : This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Web : www.acatcm.com Latest Posts ST-26 (Wai Ling) ST-25 (Tian Shu) Montgomery Smith Liu ST-24 (Hua Rou Men) Weblinks Clinic Portal College Clinics Community ACATCM Library Newsletter Signup Unregistered users may sign up here for news and promotions! Your email address will never be shared with others and can be removed anytime. Name Email Copyright © 2012 Alberta College of Acupuncture & Traditional Chinese Medicine. All Rights Reserved. In joint venture with the Beijing University of Chinese Medicine.
						Designed by JoomShaper Valid XHTML and CSS Home About Us Prof