
Email to The Magnesium Web Site, 2002 The Magnesium Web Site MAGNESIUM ONLINE LIBRARY The Magnesium Web
        Site Online Library The Magnesium Web Site Home The Magnesium Web Site More Magnesium Symposium at Experimental Biology 2010 Program Announcement, April 24, 2010, 
		Anaheim Convention Center Featured Editorial from Life Extension Magazine, Sept. 2005: How
        Many Americans Are Magnesium Deficient? Complete Book by Dr. Mildred S. Seelig: Mg Deficiency in the Pathogenesis of Disease Free ebook edited by Robert Vink and Mihai Nechifor University of Adelaide Press 2011 Magnesium in the Central Nervous System John Libbey Eurotext Magnesium Research Archives, 2003-Present The legal battle for recognition of the importance of dietary
        magnesium: Legal documents Healthy Water Association Healthy Water
        Association--USA Arab Healthy Water
        Association THE MAGNESIUM WEB SITE ONLINE LIBRARY Paul Mason, Editor P.O. Box 1417 Patterson, CA 95363 Send Email to The Magnesium Web Site Go to our Main Menu Email to The Magnesium Web Site, 2002 Fri, 4 Jan 2002 19:51:26 0600 (CST) SEIZURES I am currently using magnesium, which seems to greatly help
  and may sometime in the future cure me of seizures which for some
  reason have only occurred while I sleep. I have recently
  discovered that Magnesium regulates sodium efflux and influx into
  nerve cells. Exactly the same mechanism that my prescription
  medicine Dilantin does in stopping seizures. AMAZING! Wed, 9 Jan 2002 14:53:27 0500 MIGRAINES, CHRONIC PAIN I happened upon your request as I was looking up a website re:
  magnesium as a preventative for migraine for a friend. I am 39 years old, and have suffered from migraine since late
  adolescence. My family physician knows about them, and is rather
  more inclined to prescribe the "latest and greatest", regardless
  of cost or side effects, than actually listen to me as to what
  actually works well for me, in this case, a step approach using
  first 1) otc caffeine, aspirin, and decongestant combination;
  then 2) butalbital/aspirin; and lastly, 3) codeine. Imitrex,
  which produces immediate results, seems to irritate my nasal
  passages to the point where I may suffer from ulcerations in my
  nasal cavity for weeks afterwards. Also, the food diary approach
  to migraine management is a cruel joke. I researched alternative treatments following a terrible weeklong
  migraine, and found what appeared to be good, legitimate info on
  the role of magnesium in prevention of migraine. I was
  sufficiently convinced (which is very difficult to do) to
  experiment upon myself. I take chelated magnesium every morning.
  Although I had not been scrupulously collecting clinical data on
  the results (life is busy enough, thank you), I can
  enthusiastically tell you that anecdotally, it has been very
  helpful. For me, frequency of migraine has gone down to a
  fraction, say 1/3, of what they were. That's pretty significant.
  I still get them, mostly in spring and fall, coinciding with
  allergic triggers. Chronic pain arthritis/myofacial is also a problem for me, and
  magnesium supplementation is an important part of pain control
  for me. I stretch and exercise on a daily basis, using belly
  dance/free weights/yoga/Pilates/balance exercises as I see fit,
  considering how I feel that particular day. I believe this is
  also a factor in controlling headache, especially those
  associated with TMJ and neck tension. Tue, 15 Jan 2002 10:56:12 0500 MIGRAINES I have been taking magnesium to treat my migraines for around
  a month now. I have suffered from migraines for 11 years and this
  has been the first treatment to decrease the amount and length of
  pain I experience. Sat, 26 Jan 2002 10:28:10 EST ASTHMA, ANXIETY I was recommended magnesium taurate to help with possible
  asthma, breathing difficulties, however, I have noticed that the
  magnesium has reduced my anxiety levels. Wed, 6 Feb 2002 21:32:01 EST MIGRAINES I have been taking magnesium oxide mineral supplements to
  treat migraines. I take 1000mgs per day. The migraines occur
  about once a month. This is the same frequency as before taking
  the supplement, but the severity is much less. Tue, 12 Feb 2002 10:20:22 0800 MIGRAINES I had purchased the book by Dr. Mauskop re Migraines. While
  doing my own research, I had been taking feverfew and B vitamins
  in order to combat headaches that were lasting for over a month
  at a time. The two supplements were not enough to stop the
  headaches, or even notice a difference. Within two weeks of
  adding magnesium, my headaches were cut down to 1/4 of what they
  were. I was no longer needed prescription medication to stop
  them, except on rare occasions. When I was using my prescription,
  I would only need one to two pills to stop them completely.
  Further, my 7 year old son noticed almost immediately and was
  commenting that I no longer had a headache like I did. I am now
  using Migra Lieve daily.The only problem that has arisen is that
  I was feeling so well that I started missing doses and am
  currently experiencing an 11 day headache at this point. I am
  currently waiting for the supplements to build back up and expect
  the headaches to resolve soon. I was extremely skeptical when I
  started taking the magnesium and was only really grasping straws
  to stop the pain. I believe the magnesium made the
  difference. Thu, 14 Feb 2002 19:25:38 EST MIGRAINES I have had major successes treating my migraines with
  magnesium. Sadly, this may be the most overlooked tx for
  headaches. Sun, 17 Feb 2002 16:43:43 1000 MIGRAINES I have had migraine headaches for about 25 years. In the early
  1990s, I was finally diagnosed at the UCLA pain management clinic
  in the School of Dentistry. That eventually led to daily
  Neurontin and Tenormin as preventive and Imitrex 50 100mg. tabs
  when I get one. I used the injection Imitrex for a few years in
  the mid 90s. A few years ago my neurologist almost offhandedly
  suggested magnesium supplement, but didn't say how much so I've
  been on just 133mg. extra a day. Then about a week ago I read in
  this article,
  http://www.cnn.com/2002/HEALTH/conditions/02/11/migraine.treatment/in
  dex.html, how 500mg. was more like it. I've been on 500mg. a day
  for seven days now, and I have yet to experience another
  migraine. Prior to a week ago I'd get twinges daily, a moderate
  migraine maybe once a week, and whopper maybe once a month. Now,
  nothing, no twinges, no nothing. The only "side effect" I can see
  is just a dash of flushing in my face. Otherwise nothing I can
  detect. Tue, 19 Feb 2002 06:06:40 0800 PVCs I am a 57 year old retired male, 157 lbs., 6 feet, in good
  health except for slight hypertension which is well controlled to
  120s/70s by 10 mg of enalapril taken each morning. I have had occasional bouts of preventricular contractions since
  my early twenties. Over a period of several days, or usually
  weeks, I would experience several PVCs per hour. Then they would
  disappear for many months. My doctors over the years seemed to
  agree that these were harmless. This past fall, my wife and I took a six week camping (RVing)
  trip during which we were very active, hiking several miles each
  day in Utah's canyon country. During this time I was having
  "attacks" of increasing frequency and duration. The PVCs would
  sometimes be so frequent (perhaps every third or fourth
  heartbeat), and last for so many minutes, that I could barely
  talk due to the induced coughing. When we got home, I read an article in "Readers' Digest" that
  mentioned a food supplement database they had on their website.
  Of the several things mentioned, magnesium seemed the cheapest. I
  started taking 200 mg/day. After the third dose, the PVCs
  abruptly, and completely, stopped. Then, to test it, I stopped
  taking Mg and the PVCs returned after three days. As it happened, I had my annual physical in December, so I
  mentioned all this to my doctor who decided I ought to have a
  stress EKG just to rule out any coronary artery blockage. I had
  the test in January and it showed I had no heart problems
  whatever. I have since learned that exercise depletes Mg, and I certainly
  was active during our trip. And, I also have noticed by looking
  back over my blood tests, that my Mg level has always been low
  normal. Thu, 28 Feb 2002 17:43:04 EST MIGRAINES I thought I would let you know that I am using magnesium to
  treat my migraines, and with amazing results... What were
  previously three or four day monster migraines are often as short
  as two hours now. That is more improvement than any prescription
  medication has ever given me. I take 756 mg of magnesium L
  lactate dihydrate each day, split into three doses. I also take
  magnesium gluconate, 270 mg each morning. I have been using
  magnesium for the migraines for a little over six months now. I
  did not start at the present dose, but rather gradually increased
  to this level. This combination has made enough difference in the
  quality of my life that I can now plan to do something tomorrow
  and be reasonably sure I will be able to get it done. Sat, 2 Mar 2002 15:00:36 EST BONE MARROW CANCER I have bone marrow cancer. My right ankle broke 2 years ago.
  An endocrinologist says I have a magnesium deficiency. He has me
  on magnesium IV 2 3 times a week. Sun, 31 Mar 2002 09:00:18 0600 MIGRAINES I have successfully been treated for migraine with mag IV's. I
  take oral magnesium everyday but seem to have a hard time
  retaining enough mag in my system. I go to an environmental
  specialist who has literally brought me back to life with
  supplements, nutritional IV's and magnesium. Tue, 2 Apr 2002 09:24:59 +0200 MIGRAINES I started a self experiment with 600 mg magnesium and after a
  couple of month I was out of tablets and didn't replace them for
  about 3 days; I was suffering migraines all 3 of them! Fri, 5 Apr 2002 20:27:22 0500 POST HEART ATTACK I had suffered a heart attack [and] underwent angioplasty for
  a stent placement. While in recovery, a nurse noticed that my t
  waves were abnormal and phoned the treating physician who
  immediately ordered that I be placed on a magnesium drip. It
  obviously worked as my ECG was later O.K. and I was discharged
  two days later. Sun, 7 Apr 2002 11:34:18 0400 MIGRAINES I am a 38 year old male who use to suffer regularly from
  migraines. I found that the more I exercised the worse they got.
  I have not exercised much in the last 10 years to avoid both the
  headaches and prolonged fatigue. A few weeks ago I began taking a
  500 mg. magnesium supplement each day. I can feel a dramatic
  difference in the way I feel after exercising. I am also
  experiencing deeper sleep. My eight year old son is just beginning to experience the
  exercise related headaches too. He has had amitriptyline
  prescribed for the headaches but it hasn't done anything but make
  him sleepy. I will probably try a magnesium supplement with him
  too. Sun, 7 Apr 2002 19:21:17 0500 CLUSTER HEADACHES I had a boarder that had horrible cluster headaches daily and
  he is a young man of only 22. I told him about magnesium, but he
  wanted medical care. After spending a lot of insurance money on
  many tests, including MRIs and brain scans and nearly dying from
  aspirin toxicity, he listened to me at length and was finally
  interested in trying magnesium. I gave him a bottle of magnesium
  glycinate. He was to take 800 mg magnesium from magnesium
  glycinate a day (200 mg 4 t/d).He stopped having cluster
  headaches within a day or two. As long as he takes his Mg, he has
  no headaches. George Eby http://coldcure.com/html/dep.html Tue, 9 Apr 2002 20:53:51 0500 MIGRAINES I have been taking magnesium sulfate 400mg po daily for 3
  months now. Before I started, I was having migraines every month
  with my menstrual period and also at random times during the
  month. I was averaging 3 5 migraines a month. The first month on
  the mag oxide, I had somewhat less frequent headaches. The second
  month, I had only the one during my menstrual period. The third
  month I had no migraine at all. That is the first time since 1982
  that I have gone a whole month without a migraine! Wed, 10 Apr 2002 23:01:44 +1200 FIBROMYALGIA, MUSCLE CRAMPS, TWITCHING I have had fibromyalgia for five years, although it was only
  diagnosed three years ago. Although not common in FMS, One of my
  debilitating symptoms was severe muscle cramps and muscle
  twitching in the shoulders, upper and lower arms, hands, chest,
  lower back and feet. (Oddly, rarely in the calf muscles where
  most of my friends experienced it from time to time). These
  cramps were so bad that I could not drive safely. I read on the net of an English professor who recommended
  magnesium for FMS. (I cannot recall why). But I gave it a go.
  Within two weeks my twitching had stopped and after one month I
  was experiencing no cramps. (Prior to this my medical advisor
  prescribed quinine and norflex, both of which produced only
  slight reduction in cramps and no effect on the twitching). It
  took me one month to raise the dose to 2 grams Mg per day. (to
  avoid diarrhea). I have suffered only three cramps in the past year and no
  twitching at all. I think I am sure that it is the Mg although I
  have not missed a day taking it to find out if the symptoms
  return. Sat, 20 Apr 2002 09:43:17 0600 MIGRAINES I'm currently trying Mg to prevent migraines (after a 4 day
  migraine bout) and it appears to be working. Tue, 23 Apr 2002 18:22:06 0400 MIGRAINES A few months ago, I began having migraines. I had had them in
  the past, but not often. In four days I had two. The first one
  sent me to the emergency room, a first for me. I went to a
  chiropractor, looking for any relief. I also had blood work,
  because I thought my hormone therapy was no longer working. I
  take estrogen. The doctor recommended a hair analysis. It came
  back to say my magnesium level was low. In the mean time, my
  physician told me my body was no longer absorbing the estrogen.
  Well, I began taking magnesium, and you would not believe the
  difference it has made. I no longer have headaches, and I feel
  better than I have felt in a long time. I have headaches a lot, I
  always have, but I can truthfully say, I haven't had a headache
  in a long time. I feel like a new person. Sun, 28 Apr 2002 14:45:59 0400 MIGRAINES, MUSCLE CRAMPS, SPASMS I suffered from migraine since 1965.I also developed, over the
  years, severe muscle cramps in my legs at night and spasms in my
  upper back around the shoulder blades. I began a regimen about
  two years ago, of calcium and magnesium to treat the cramps and
  had immediate relief. I have continued this treatment and
  discovered that the migraines have just about disappeared also.
  The upper back problems remain however. Wed, 8 May 2002 20:15:19 EDT FATIGUE, MEMORY LOSS, HEADACHES, CONFUSION, AGITATION, ETC. I am a 29 year old mother of two young children. With each
  child my health worsened. I went to my physician in October of
  last year because ongoing fatigue and memory loss. I had begun to
  sleep for more and more hours per day. In addition I experienced
  headaches, bouts of confusion, agitation, mood swings, and
  worsening PMS symptoms. In addition I began to experience heart
  palpitations and breathlessness. I began having flashes of heat
  and cold. My feet and legs would sometimes tingle and go to
  sleep. After 9 months of varied and sometimes painful treatment which
  included a sleep study, a daytime sleep study, an echocardiogram,
  nuclear stress test, cardiac catheterization, electrophysiology
  study, several EKGs, Holter monitor... even a heart monitor I
  wore for a month. I tried exercise..not exercising, I tried
  everything they told me to do..including taking various medicines
  for clearing my nasal pasages..slowing my heart down..speeding my
  heart up..etc etc. They told me I had coronary artery disease.
  They told me I had leaky heart valves. They told me that I had
  sleep apnea. Then they weren't sure what I had. They wanted me
  using all kinds of gadgets and machines. After a few months of useless treatments and worsening health,
  after many thousands of dollars spent I gave up. I stopped
  returning my doctor's phone calls and just suffered. One
  sleepless night I got online in frustration and typed in every
  symptom I was feeling. Other people were experiencing what I was
  going through and medical community wasn't helping. Someone
  suggested I began writing down all my symptoms. After three months of exhaustive charting and researching, I
  noticed a pattern. My symptoms worsened during ovulation and
  premenstrually. I began researching natural remedies for PMS.This
  is where I began to hear magnesium mentioned. I didn't know what
  it was and what it did for my body. I researched more. I was
  overwhelmed. Most everything they were describing as magnesium
  deficiency was happening to me. After much research and talking to many people online about the
  pros and cons. I made what I felt was an educated decision. I
  immediately went out and bought a 4 dollar bottle of magnesium
  and a 5 dollar bottle of vitamin B6. I also bought a bottle of
  vitamin E. The first day I took the magnesium I was in pain. I
  was craving chocolate very severely. I was having mood swings and
  uncontrollable irritability. Moodiness. I was unable to
  concentrate or think about even the smallest things. The first night I took the magnesium, the first thing I notice
  was that I slept. I slept well. For the first time in years, I
  also dreamed. To me this meant I was finally reaching a deep
  sleep that seemed to elude me for so long. I woke feeling
  refreshed. Over the next few days the change in my entire well
  being was unbelievable. I began to sleep better. The fatigue disappeared. The chocolate
  cravings vanished. My energy levels went up. I got stronger and
  stronger every single day. It's been several weeks now..and I
  have yet to experience ANY more major problems. No more heart
  palpitations, no more mood swings, no more headaches, no more
  debilitating fatigue. I contribute my magnesium deficiency to a diet low in magnesium
  rich foods AND high in vitamin D found in milk. I have also
  learned that period of high stress and use of diuretics can
  further deplete magnesium levels. I am learning more and more
  about magnesium and other vitamins everyday. I am constantly
  surprised at why doctors did not look at more simple options or
  at least inform me about them before embarking on 10, 000 dollar
  procedures. I am working to eat more magnesium rich food so that I can reduce
  supplement use. It feels good to take control of my own medical
  situation. Thu, 9 May 2002 21:57:11 EDT MIGRAINES I have used magnesium and have benefited from it. For the past
  year, I have been taking 600mg magnesium oxide daily with other
  vitamins/minerals. I have suffered from migraines for fifteen
  years. I attribute the magnesium, malic acid and feverfew as
  lessening my migraine frequency and pain. I believe my body was
  craving magnesium as I tended to want to eat magnesium rich foods
  such as almonds. Thanks for the article as it made a difference in my life! When I
  read it a year ago, I tried by increasing my magnesium levels to
  the point of its being a laxative, then cut back to an amount my
  body could handle. Sun, 19 May 2002 09:10:01 1000 MIGRAINES I was suffering from migraines everyday until my MD told me
  about Magnesium citrate 500mg everyday. I have not one since.
  It's been a week. Fri, 24 May 2002 09:14:30 EDT MIGRAINES The product that I am using can be found on this web site:
  http://www.NaturalCalm.netThe product does everything that it
  says it does! It is an outstanding product!!! Tue, 4 Jun 2002 02:59:56 EDT LEG CRAMPS Ich nehme jeden Abend 3 Filmtabletten Magnesium, da ich
  Diabetes 1 habe und irgendwann herausfand, das die
  nächtlichen Wadenkrämpfe damit zu tun haben. Wenn ich
  die Magnesum Tabletten nehme bin ich auf der sicheren Seite. Ganz
  selten muss ich nachts noch eine Tablette zusätzlich
  nehmen. [I take 3 capsules of magnesium each evening, since I have
  diabetes type 1 and have nocturnal calf cramps. If I take the
  magnesium tablets, I am safe. Rarely, I must take another tablet
  at night in addition.] Sat, 8 Jun 2002 04:54:58 0700 MIGRAINES I would like you to know about my experience. I have had
  migraines since I was a small child. I started taking calcium,
  and was told by the natural food expert that I should take
  magnesium with it because calcium makes the heart beat faster.
  Once I got on the magnesium I started feeling better all around,
  and stopped taking calcium-bad, but I did. I have been on
  magnesium for 7 yrs I didn't notice it at first, but after a
  while I started looking back over this time and realized that my
  headaches were less and now I seldom get a headache. Thu, 20 Jun 2002 20:05:03 0400 LOW POTASSIUM, LOW CALCIUM Gidday, Your page is educational! You asked for stories etc,
  so I have one for you. I am also a Registered Nurse, &
  understand the importance of electrolytes in our diets etc. I have recently been diagnosed with CVIDS, in which my immune
  system does not work properly and I get infections easily. Over
  the past few years, I have noticed that when they draw blood, I
  have been found to have a very low K+ level, Ca+, and a low RBC
  & Hgb. This is something that is always there. Once my PCP called me on the phone and had me admitted for
  hypokalemia (critical low).Last month, I had a bowel obstruction
  and another physician (surgeon who is a friend of mine) admitted
  me to do a lab. He drew labs, and I was given 8 K+ pills, 2 hours
  apart, and the blood draws still revealed it was low. They then
  gave me 8 bags of K+, and once again, still low. No one could
  figure this out as I was not having diarrhea, or anything that
  normally causes this condition. Another physician (who was on call) decided to check my Mg+
  level. It was also very low! He gave me a bag of Mg+, and my K+
  finally went up, along with my Ca+. I have also found (I am paying attention to my labs and have been
  wondering if there is a connection with receiving my Polygam
  every month).Prior to my tx, all the labs are out of whack (as
  above), but after the tx they seem to right themselves. If the
  K+, & Ca+ is low, then Mg+ tends to correct all of them. Thu, 27 Jun 2002 01:34:09 EDT PVCs In November, 2001, I began to experience almost constant PVCs
  in my heart. They immediately discovered that my magnesium was
  low. My doctor blamed my 4th baby, then 9.5 months old, and my
  nursing her on my magnesium depletion. It took 6 months at 1000
  2000 mg. of magnesium a day to get my blood levels back to normal
  and the PVCs to stop. Now I found out that I have lost 1.5 inches
  in my height and we're looking at a possibility of osteoporosis
  due to a low magnesium levels for up to 5+ years.(I believe I
  also had PVCs during my third pregnancy.) All of this and I am
  only 31 years old and love milk. I don't want other young moms to
  go through what I am going through. Mon, 8 Jul 2002 18:58:16 0700 MIGRAINES Just thought I'd write and share with you a rave testimonial
  on how I cured my migraines! (since you asked) For about 4 6 years (give or take), I have suffered from
  headaches which got progressively worse. (or at least they
  started off as headaches, until they progressed to
  migraines).This last couple years they became more and more
  frequent and severe. Tylenol, aspirin or ibuprofen wouldn't even
  phase them. I found fresh ginger (added to boiling water) would
  help to alleviate some of the nausea, but not the migraine
  itself. The pain just wouldn't go away, and it would be so severe that I
  couldn't do *anything* but lay down and try to cope the best I
  could with the pain. No reading, no TV, no nothing...and they
  would last for 2 3 days on average. I tried some over the counter
  "MigraDefense" capsules by KAL phooey! They helped to trade my
  migraines for irregular heartbeats.....scary!!!! The migraines finally progressed to the point where I knew I had
  to see a doc. Before I did, though...I just happened to stop by a
  local health food store (the same one where I got the migraine
  relief capsules that were no good).I got to talking with the
  store owner and he told me about magnesium deficiency being one
  major cause of migraines. So I bought the Magnesium 500mg with
  vitamin B 6 by Natures Life, and took it home. "How could
  something so simple really help THIS?" I thought. But sure
  enough, to my *amazement*, it HAS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I take about 1
  every couple days, and so far so good!! No more migraines!! It is my sincere hope that if there are any other migraine
  sufferers out there that they read this and give it a try. I
  can't begin to tell you how relieved I've been not to have to
  suffer through those nasty migraine bouts. Sat, 20 Jul 2002 13:38:43 0700 MIGRAINES I have Hemi Plegic Migraine Syndrome, and my neurologist put
  me on magnesium/zinc, with calcium, in conjunction with Neurontin
  and Paxil to prevent migraine, as this type put me at high risk
  for stroke. Sat, 20 Jul 2002 20:02:32 0700 LOW MAGNESIUM, ENERGY LOSS, MUSCLE WEAKNESS, NAUSEA,
  MIGRAINES I would like to thank you again for all the work you have done
  and still do for all of us that have sicknesses! So much good has happened since I last wrote you...... My doctor found out that I have a very serious deficiency in
  magnesium! I had critical levels.....Many .3 and .6 levels. I was
  told 1.3-1.9 is normal. He told me I could die with these levels.
  I've been sick 40 yrs. with this. Bedridden for 20 of those 40.
  Main problems severe energy loss and severe muscle weakness. Also
  severe nausea. I now am feeling like I felt when I was 18, when it all started.
  I am now 56. I feel that all of the hundred doctors I went to
  including Mayo Clinic and Johns Hopkins failed me. I think I
  should sue the AMA. They conveniently said I was
  manic/depressive! I knew all those years I was deathly sick physically and that I
  did get depressed over the sever physical illness that would
  never stop for all those years. I certainly feel that the medical
  community stole my life from me! I now have no severe quick (every 2 weeks!) cycling going on! It
  is miraculous what a normal level can do to some functions of my
  body! I am a teacher and researched this sickness 40 years. I
  guess I was not smart enough to catch it but [neither] were the
  doctors. Now that I am cured, I can see how my sleep is great now, also
  energy and strength and also just an overall feeling of
  health! This is truly a case for the books! My migraines are gone also! I am at 1.5 now and may go higher. I take a 90MCQ IV everyday
  that takes 4-5 hrs. Also Sat and Sun. Liquid and pills did not
  help. My endrocrinologist took 3 years to get to this point! What
  took him soooooo long? He is supposed to be a world-renowned
  endrocrinologist? Wed, 24 Jul 2002 23:12:11 0700 pH BALANCE, BREAST FIBROSITY Last year I realized that my pH balance was really off. I
  started taking buffer pH in large doses, then added pancreatic
  enzyme which helped for awhile. I then added liver enzyme which
  began to give me liver spots so I stopped taking that. Then I
  read somewhere, maybe in my medical books (I'm studying to be a
  ND physician) that magnesium helps to regulate the pH of the
  body. After taking magnesium for two days, I noticed a marked
  change in my pH balance. (By using litmus paper) Just with using
  the buffer pH in large quantities started to do some things I
  didn't expect. All the fibrosity in my right breast began to disappear. Even the
  calcification disappeared. My surgeon asked me what I was doing.
  Now, after taking magnesium for several months, my energy is very
  high, my pH is balanced, all fibrosity is gone out of my right
  breast. I am having a panel done this Friday to show my hormone
  levels and thyroid levels as I believe I am at the stage where my
  body is beginning to regulate these also. I have written a
  brochure to teach and reach people on the real need for
  magnesium. I am adding information on my websites and I will
  incorporate a link to your website as well. It is so crucial to
  reach as many people as possible.... so count me in. Mon, 5 Aug 2002 07:13:38 0400 USE IN VETERINARY PRACTICE, MIGRAINES, PMS I am a veterinarian and nutrition consultant. I use magnesium
  supplementation extensively for a variety of problems in horses
  from insulin resistance to muscular and nervous disorders and
  have done so for at least the last 20 years with remarkable
  success (but that's another story!). I cannot, of course, prescribe for humans but have from time to
  time had clients mention health problems in their families or
  friends, at which point I will refer them to informative web
  sites and research papers of interest. Within the last six months
  have had two clients with young women (ages 19 and 24) in their
  families suffering from severe, refractory (to medication) status
  migraine of sufficient intensity to warrant CAT scans. One was of
  8 days duration, one several weeks (symptomatically a basilar
  artery type). The 8 day long migraine responded within 24 hours to stopping all
  medications and beginning magnesium supplementation; the other
  within 48 hours. Both girls are now migraine free on magnesium
  maintenance therapy. We also have migraine in our family. My own 17 year old daughter
  had regular migraines, occasionally quite severe, but these have
  disappeared completely since she started magnesium
  supplementation for another problem (PMS). Mon, 05 Aug 2002 20:37:28 0400 KIDNEY STONES, HEADACHES I first started taking a magnesium supplement and vitamin B6
  in 1965 as part of a study to see if it would inhibit the
  formation of calcium oxalate kidney stones. It did, and because
  you never forget the pain of passing a stone, I've been taking it
  ever since. No stones except for a few periods that, for one
  reason or another, I messed up on taking it regularly. When I got on the Internet, I found out that magnesium also helps
  to prevent a lot of other things. A lot of things that I don't
  have even though I've been very overweight most all of my adult
  life. I'm now 68, weigh 240 lbs, but most of my life was closer
  to 300. Blood pressure and diabetes are under control and no
  problems with cholesterol or triglycerides. Doctors, several
  times, have told me that I have no circulation problems. Also, I
  have no problem with arthritis. In the early 60's, I used to have horrible headaches. Now, I
  can't remember when the last time was that I took a painkiller
  for a bad headache. I sometimes have the thought that had I not taken magnesium and
  vitamin B6 all these years, that I might not be alive today. Thu, 8 Aug 2002 10:28:14 0700 MIGRAINES I have been taking about 500 mg of magnesium daily for about
  10 years now. It is the one supplement that I swear by. Here's my
  story: I often got migraines at a rate of about once a month, starting
  at puberty. When I turned 35, I had to have a complete
  hysterectomy due to endometriosis, and afterward began hormone
  replacement therapy. Migraines suddenly became a weekly event,
  sometimes lasting for 2 or more days. My job was suffering, my
  sanity was suffering. The medical community offered pain killers,
  but that didn't make me well merely less pained. My Dr. suggested that it was the hormone tablets, and that we
  should discontinue them. But I already knew that I didn't want
  the hot flashes, dry papery skin and lack of libido that I felt
  with no hormones. And I knew that the level of hormone was much
  less than I had when I actually had my ovaries, so I decided to
  do more research. Luckily, this hormone/headache clue was
  important to actually finding the answer. I read a book from Rodale Press, From A to Zinc: A Guide to
  Vitamins and Minerals, which I believe is no longer in print. It
  covered Dr. Altura's research into magnesium, and briefly
  mentioned migraine and hormones in the same paragraph. I knew I
  had softened water at home and at work, and I had recently lost
  weight on a very low fat diet. I charted my food for a week, and
  saw that I averaged only 150mg magnesium daily. I was
  deficient. It was enough for me to decide to try a test. I began taking 500 mg daily and charted my headaches. I could see
  that each headache's duration was less than the previous one, and
  the time between started to lengthen. 30 days after starting, the
  headaches stopped. I stopped taking the magnesium and 3 days
  later, BAM, a headache! I treated it with about 1500 mg divided
  through the day, and it calmed down. I tried dropping my daily
  dosage to 250 (because the US RDA was only 300 for women and I
  was getting 150 in my diet), but I get headaches at that level. I
  believe the RDA value was far too low. I tell anyone and everyone who will listen about this because I
  believe no one should suffer with migraine if they don't have
  to. In 1996, my husband had a heart attack, and had angina afterward
  which he treated with nitroglycerin. I convinced him to also take
  magnesium. He no longer even has nitroglycerin tablets in the
  house. It is a major blessing to have this inexpensive solution and the
  knowledge to use it. Pass it on, Fri, 9 Aug 2002 07:58:45 0400 FIBROMYALGIA I have used Mg to fight some of the fibromyalgia symptoms and
  restore my sleep. It had a very dramatic effect. It also has
  calmed my nerves. The effect has been so dramatic that I now
  believe that the fibromyalgia was caused by stress to my body
  coupled with a lack of magnesium. I am a male, fifty years old
  and tend to eat a high calcium diet. Thu, 22 Aug 2002 20:18:02 0700 MIGRAINES Yes, magnesium is one of the things that I have to do to
  prevent migraines. Other triggers are eating certain foods:
  onion, ham, citrus, banana. I also must drink plenty of water,
  get plenty of exercise, and take Verapamil. Tue, 27 Aug 2002 15:58:15 0400 MIGRAINES I am 49 year old woman and I can swear by magnesium. I have
  had migraines for about thirty years now. I have every shot and
  medication the neurologist and medical doctor could prescribe. I
  had read somewhere over the Internet about magnesium and started
  taking it. I take about 250 mg. a day. I find if I take more than
  that I will have some loose bowels. I rarely have a migraine and
  if I do, they are not very severe. My son who is 19 years of age and is currently serving in the US
  Army. He has just been diagnosed with severe migraines caused
  from stress. I plan to go out tonight and ship him a bottle of
  magnesium. I will also include the letters from your site
  expressing what magnesium has done for them. Wed, 28 Aug 2002 11:14:50 0600 MIGRAINES This weekend while on a business trip, my husband (who also
  has migraines) was talking with another gentleman about his
  recent problems with migraine headaches. He had lost several days
  at work and someone suggested he try using magnesium to help with
  the headaches. He said he had been taking magnesium pills for
  three weeks and had not had a migraine since he started. About
  three hours later during a work seminar, my husband started
  seeing his "aura" and it was going to be a bad one. The friend
  had some magnesium capsules in his vehicle and gave one to my
  husband. After taking a pill and about 2 hours later, to his
  surprise, the migraine never formed. He had a slight headache in
  the base of his neck but nothing in comparison to his usual
  migraines. After the work seminar was over, he came back to the motel and
  was explaining what had happened, He was in utter disbelief, in
  all his life he had never had a migraine quit once he had seen
  his aura. I also suffer from migraines but have the additional joy of
  having cluster headaches too. I recently had started one of my
  cycles with the clusters and was taking several prescription
  drugs daily combined with extra strength Tylenol. I took one of
  the magnesium pills that night and within an hour or two the
  headache had dulled tremendously. I have taken 500 mg a day since
  then and have not had a cluster or migraine since. Its only been
  about 6 days, and there is still a slight headache occasionally,
  but compared to what my headaches usually are, these are a piece
  of cake. Thu, 29 Aug 2002 11:13:14 0400 MIGRAINES Yes, I used to suffer from severe migraines and my doctor
  prescribed Imitrex shots. I was also suffering from restless leg
  syndrome and was talking to my chiropractor about it and he
  suggested adding magnesium to my diet. He explained that
  magnesium in tablets take about 6 weeks to get into the blood
  stream in amounts that would show improvement, so I went on a
  search for a liquid that would enter the cell much faster and I
  found one from a company called Young Living Essential Oils. They
  have a product called Mineral Essence which has 60 trace minerals
  along with magnesium. I have not had a migraine or restless leg
  syndrome since the 3rd day of taking the Mineral Essence and that
  was in June 1999. I had been suffering for about 5 years. I truly
  believe I had a magnesium deficiency and am glad I found Young
  Living. Fri, 30 Aug 2002 15:12:09 +1200 JUVENILE MIGRAINES My daughter has suffered form migraines since she was a
  toddler and probably before she could tell us what the problem
  was. We thought she had a stomach problem when she was younger.
  We went through years of hearing that there was not much that we
  could do for a child unless we put her on daily medication. I
  didn't like that idea unless there were no other options. I
  finally went to a acupuncturist / natural therapist who put her
  onto 3 half tablets of magnesium a day. It was miraculous. My
  daughter, now six, has gone from having severe fortnightly
  migraines/vomiting etc to only the very occasional headache that
  has only developed to a migraine once in 6 months and that was
  probably due to the fact that I had been a bit lax on giving her
  magnesium that week. We also noticed she was a lot calmer while
  taking magnesium. She tended to get very excited or the other
  extreme of overly anxious. We have found magnesium to be
  fantastic even if our G.P smiled and said "Well, I guess if you
  think it is helping, that's good." I could tell she was not
  convinced. I have started having headaches myself now and think I
  will also give it a go. Date: Sat, 7 Sep 2002 19:32:56 EDT HOMEMADE Mg-BICARBONATE WATER For some time I've been drinking a Mg-bicarbonate water that I
  make very inexpensively from Milk of Magnesia (magnesium
  hydroxide) and seltzer water (CO2 water). It has (by math) ~84 mg
  Mg and ~422 mg bicarbonate per liter and tastes great. The
  downside is that this water has no other minerals, but I do take
  a multi-mineral tablet. Here's the recipe: The equation Mg(OH)2 + (CO2)2 = Mg(HCO3)2 is interesting, because
  Mg(OH)2 is magnesium hydroxide, as in milk of magnesia (MoM), and
  CO2 is the fizz in carbonated (seltzer) water. Combining them
  produces Mg(HCO3)2 (magnesium-bicarbonate), as in ... and Adobe Springs ("Noah's")
  water. Be sure to get the MoM in which the "active ingredient" is
  Magnesium-hydroxide and nothing else, and the "inactive
  ingredient" is purified water and nothing else. You'll see on the
  label that one teaspoon of MoM = 400 mg of Mg-hydroxide. 42 % of
  Mg-hydroxide is Mg, which equals 168 mg of Mg per teaspoon. Chill
  for an hour or two in the refrigerator a 1 liter bottle of
  seltzer water (not soda water), which consists of water and CO2
  only. Open it, and when the fizzing settles down, spoon in 2
  tablespoons (6 teaspoons) of milk of magnesia, put the cap back
  on, shake gently every few minutes and watch the cloudiness
  disappear as the Mg-hydroxide reacts with the CO2 and becomes
  Mg-bicarbonate. This 1 liter (approximately 1 quart) will have
  ~1,008 mg of magnesium + ~5,061 mg of bicarbonate. Summary: 1 liter seltzer water + 2 tablespoons (6 teaspoons) milk
  of magnesia = ~1,008 mg of magnesium + ~5,061 mg of bicarbonate
  per liter (~ 1 quart). You should dilute this, 1 part Mg
  bicarbonate water with 11 parts regular water, so 1 liter of the
  concentrated will yield 12 liters (about 3 gallons) of drinkable
  water with ~84 mg Mg and ~422 mg bicarbonate per liter, close to
  Adobe Springs water, below, for Mg and bicarbonate, and probably
  for pH also: Adobe Springs ("Noah's") magnesium and bicarbonate
  rich spring water is from some mountains in California - see adobe.shtml Adobe Springs water has 120
  mg Mg and 410 mg bicarbonate per liter, with a pH of 8.3,
  according to their web-site. Here's the easy way to get the drinkable water from the
  concentrate: After you've made the 1 liter (1,000 ml) concentrate, measure out
  1/3 of it (333 ml) in a measuring cup. Pour it into a 1 gallon
  bottle and fill with regular water. I'm already drinking it, and
  it tastes pretty good! 2 tablespoons (6 teaspoons) of MoM per one liter of seltzer water
  seems to be the correct amount- it all reacted with all of the
  CO2 (no MoM residue and no apparent fizzing, even when shaking
  the bottle). My cost is $ 0.81 per gallon using reverse osmosis
  water from the machine at the local market @ 39 cents per gallon.
  Using tap water it would be 42 cents per gallon. Cheap! My cost: MoM, $4.29 for 71 tsp = $ 0.36 for 6 tsp. Seltzer water ----------------$ 0.89 for 1 liter RO water ---------------------$ 1.17 for 3 gallons Total -------------------------- $ 2.42 for 3 gallons, or $ 0.81
  per gallon. Wed, 11 Sep 2002 00:04:58 +0000 MIGRAINES I started having chronic migraine headaches in 1993.For the
  next three years I saw every type of doctor that deals with
  migraine suffers. I had more tests than I care to remember.
  Sometime in 1996 a doctor tried to put me on anti depressants
  when I was not depressed.(Which is pretty amazing considering I
  had some level of pain 3 to 5 days a week.) After that I started
  trying vitamins and herbs and read everything I could find.
  Nothing helped, but I never gave up. I can think of dozens of
  things I avoided because those variables did increase frequency
  and intensity (Allergies, alcohol, cold hands/feet, stress,
  chewing hard foods, bright light, over exercising...). Avoidance
  tactics did bring the frequency down to 1 to 3 days a
  week.(Yeah!) I know this seems early but, I started taking magnesium 8 days
  ago and I have not had a single headache. Even narcotics never
  gave me this kind of relief for this long. I have not been
  avoiding the things that bring on the headaches either, and I
  think I am about to start living again.: ) Mon, 16 Sep 2002 23:26:24 EDT MIGRAINES I was diagnosed with migraine headaches about 12 years ago and
  averaged about 6 episodes monthly. I have oxycodone on hand for
  the really bad headaches, but have never taken any "preventive"
  medications. In January of this year, I began taking 500 mg of
  magnesium daily, and in a few months, my migraines were reduced
  to 2 3 per month. I have never experienced any side effects from
  this over the counter medication and it's very reasonably priced.
  Magnesium has made all the difference in the world to me and I
  would highly recommend that migraine sufferers give it a try. Tue, 24 Sep 2002 13:45:34 EDT MIGRAINES I had never heard that magnesium would help migraines. After
  taking magnesium for three weeks I realized I had not had a
  headache in that period. I had been plagued with migraines for
  over 40 years! Now I have had only two in the six months I have
  been taking magnesium supplements, and they were not as bad as
  before. I call magnesium my wonder drug. Fri, 27 Sep 2002 15:03:38 +0530 HEADACHES The role of calcium and magnesium together is very
  interesting. I took an ayurvedic medicine containing both
  magnesium and calcium, on prescription, and recovered within a
  few days from headache. Tue, 1 Oct 2002 16:58:36 0700 (PDT) MIGRAINES I started using a calcium/magnesium powder supplement last
  August in the hopes that it would help me sleep better. I have
  not had a migraine since and have barely had a headache at all. I
  used to often wake up with some degree of headache pain but not
  since using the supplement. I can't believe the difference. Are
  doctors aware of this? Thu, 3 Oct 2002 10:49:43 EDT MUSCLE SPASMS I have diagnoses of FMS and CFIDS. I live on a farm with my
  own hard water well and never suspected I could be Mg
  deficient. After two docs recommended Mg, I tried numerous brands and types
  in tabs and caps and experienced little change. However, thanks
  to a 25 year old book by an MD who recommends liquid Mg, plus two
  infomercials also touting the liquid form, I began to take Milk
  of Magnesia....... yes, the $3.00/24oz. of brand plain old Mg
  hydroxide. What a difference...... finally some real relief from
  muscles spasms so severe they pulled the vertebrae out of
  alignment plus many other pain relief issues. Thu, 31 Oct 2002 21:01:09 +0000 RESTLESS LEGS I just had to write to you to tell you how wonderful I feel
  after taking 'Magnesium'. I feel as if I have had a new lease on
  life, I can't believe how good it is. I had 'restless legs' and had heard that it was good, but I
  didn't know how good, I also had to wear 'insoles' in my shoes as
  I was told that the arches in my feet as dropped, and you
  wouldn't believe the pains that I got in my feet, ankles, heels,
  cramp in my legs all the time, I couldn't walk far without
  getting tired and pains in my legs I thought that it was because
  I stood up all day. Its the most 'magic mineral' and I'm surprised that I managed
  without it so long, 'Thank god' for the knowledge that a P.C.
  brings. My general health is much better now, I get a good
  night's sleep, and at 62 still do two jobs, and a good social
  life and everyone tells me that I look younger and well. I could go on a lot longer about the wonders of 'Magnesium' and
  have got quite a lot of people using it with good results. Sun, 17 Nov 2002 15:46:17 -0800 CALCIUM DEPOSIT My wife developed a calcium deposit in her eyelid. We took
  Calcium tablets from GNC, don't remember which ones, however she
  developed this irritating deposit in her eyelid. I read where
  Magnesium would work to remove the deposit. After taking
  magnesium for a week or so, it wasn't bothering her anymore. Been
  gone for several months now... Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2002 14:09:06 +0800 MIGRAINES After 4 or 5 years of almost daily migraines, which often
  confined me to bed, a doctor recently prescribed myoplex
  containing 250mg of magnesium chelate (equiv. to 50mg of
  elemental mg)..Myoplex also contains equiv. to 25 mg of elemental
  calcium and 100mg of passion flower and 50mg valerian. It is 3
  weeks since my last headache, the longest headache free period in
  5 years. Date: Sun, 17 Nov 2002 18:49:28 -0500 CALCIUM DEPOSIT My wife developed a calcium deposit in her eyelid. We took
  Calcium tablets from GNC, don't remember which ones, however she
  developed this irritating deposit in her eyelid. I read where
  Magnesium would work to remove the deposit. After taking
  magnesium for a week or so, it wasn't bothering her anymore. Been
  gone for several months now... Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2002 14:09:06 +0800 MIGRAINES After 4 or 5 years of almost daily migraines, which often
  confined me to bed, a doctor recently prescribed myoplex
  containing 250mg of magnesium chelate (equiv. to 50mg of
  elemental mg)..Myoplex also contains equiv. to 25 mg of elemental
  calcium and 100mg of passion flower and 50mg valerian. It is 3
  weeks since my last headache, the longest headache free period in
  5 years. Date: Sat, 30 Nov 2002 09:02:03 +1100 OSTEOARTHRITIS Dear Sir/Mdm I would like to begin precautionary treatment of
  oestoarthritis with the addition of magnesium bicarbonate to
  water. Could you inform me if this is practical and a readily
  available source of MB Date: Sat, 7 Dec 2002 12:50:57 EST BORDERLINE HYPERTENSION, PVCs By taking a calcium and magnesium supplement (1/2 tab daily of
  Solgar's 'Calcium Magnesium Plus Boron') I have normalized my
  previous borderline hypertension and greatly reduced my PVC and
  occasional SVT episodes. Additionally, I seem to sleep more
  soundly and have less anxiety. Occasionally, I will stop taking the supplement to see whether or
  not my symptoms return. Within a few days the symptoms begin to
  reoccur, and within a week or two they fully manifest. There is no doubt that taking a calcium and magnesium supplement
  has improved the quality of my life. This page was updated on May 30, 2003 This page was first uploaded to The Magne