Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Issue of Acupuncture and Fertility Enter your search terms Submit search form Web thehealthcarecenter.com Quick Links Send To A Friend Bookmark This Page The Issue of Acupuncture and Fertility Acupuncture serves as one alternative to modern treatment methods for improving fertility. Couples that are having functional problems like irregularity in ovulation are more likely to benefit from acupuncture than those who experience structural problems like having a blocked sperm duct or damaged fallopian tubes. Working Principle of Acupuncture How acupuncture and fertility are related is still not known precisely. Most experts in acupuncture hold the view that acupuncture works by improving body functions, balancing the hormone levels in blood, and increasing blood flow to the genital organs. The result is enhancement in ovarian function for women and increased production of sperm in men. According to the Chinese concept of treatment, throughout the human body and its surface, invisible channels of energy run. These are called meridians. If any of these channels is obstructed at any one point in the body, energies start building up in certain body regions while others do not get enough of it to function properly. These obstructions can be opened by placing needles on select spots. Medical science is of the view that using needles stimulates the nervous system to trigger the release of chemicals within the brain, spinal cord, and muscles. This sets the body on an auto-healing program. Acupuncture and Fertility in Women Studies appear to vote in favor of acupuncture as a complementary form of therapy in women who are having other treatments for fertility problem. One opinion on this positive relation of acupuncture and fertility in women is that acupuncture relieves the anxiety of women undergoing treatment for fertility. Also, acupuncture's success in bringing fertility is more pronounced if the woman is to undergo in vitro fertilization. In addition, the rate of miscarriages and ectopic (out of place) pregnancies has been found significantly lower for women who took acupuncture as treatment. Acupuncture and Pregnancy The causal relation between acupuncture and fertility has also been studied in case of the number of pregnancies that were reported in women whose cases were stamped as hopeless by medical doctors and who later caught at the acupuncture needles for final hope. However, these studies have been challenged by medical experts who showed by experiments that even without acupuncture such women could get pregnant by biofeedback i.e. changing their thought patterns to positively influence their internal systems. While the opinion of the medical community remains divided on the issue of acupuncture and fertility, doctors have no reservation in allowing their patients undergo acupuncture since it has been observed to be quite a safe procedure. More Acupuncture Articles Acupuncture and Acupressure: Needles vs. Fingers Are Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Safe? Studying Acupuncture and Depression The Issue of Acupuncture and Fertility Acupuncture helps Infertility by Improving Ovarian Function Acupuncture and IVF: Figures Prove the Positive Effect Acupuncture Charts Describe the 14 Meridians and More Acupuncture Clinics in Almost Every US City Where Can I Enroll for an Acupuncture Course? How to Choose the Best Acupuncture Doctor Try Acupuncture for Allergies and Feel the Difference How Acupuncture for Arthritis Can Help You Acupuncture for Depression and Anxiety: A Natural Remedy The Practice of Acupuncture for Face Lifts Overcoming Fibromyalgia: Use Acupuncture for Optimal Results Use Acupuncture for High Blood Pressure and get Instant Relief How Does Acupuncture for Insomnia Work? The Efficacy of Acupuncture for Migraines Acupuncture for Weight Loss Can Provide a Long Term Solution Acupuncture Needles are Necessary to Unblock Energy within the Body The Acupuncture Point Chart Shows Points for Different Parts of the Anatomy Acupuncture Points Are Usually but Not Always Found On the Meridian Acupuncture Schools Abound in the US An Acupuncture Specialist Needs Years of Study and Treatment Experience The Nature of Acupuncture Therapy A Brief Guide to How Acupuncture Can Help You Stop Smoking Before Certifications: Acupuncture Training in America Acupuncture Treatment is used to Provide Relief from Pain Acupuncture Treatment for Infertility: Does it really Work? Ancient Acupunture Techniques for Back Pain Understanding Auricular Acupuncture The History of Chinese Acupuncture How to Combat Aging with Cosmetic Acupuncture Ear Acupuncture Can Relieve Pain Elsewhere in the Body Electro Acupuncture Provides Added Stimulation through Electrical Currents How Can Facial Acupuncture Help You Applications of Laser Acupuncture in Treatment A Look at the Uniqueness of Medical Acupuncture Diseases And Conditions Back Pain Constipation Gerd Heartburn Migraine Headaches ...More Diseases And Conditions Diet And Exercise Atkins Diet Blood Pressure Mangosteen Pilates Weight Loss ...More Diet And Exercise Women's Health Botox Infertility Laser Hair Removal Menopause Microdermabrasion ...More Women's Health Men's Health Impotence Prostate Vasectomy Hair Loss ...More Men's Health Child Health Toddlers Acne Child Care Baby Care ...More Child Health Senior Health Retirement Senior Housing Wheelchairs Health Insurance Stair Lifts ...More Senior Health Mental Health Anger Management Anxiety Eating Disorders Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Quit Smoking ...More Mental Health Alternative Health Acupuncture Laser Eye Surgery Natural Remedies Aromatherapy Herbs Hypnosis Essential Oils Homeopathy Colon Cleansing Tummy Tuck ...More Alternative Health contact | privacy policy | legal notices & disclaimers | site map Copyright © 2007-2012 The