Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 30 Sep 2011 09:18:58 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "70a5fefb517fcc1:9ad"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 19:53:39 GMT
Connection: close

CDPHE EIP - Streptococcus pneumoniae Information Page Colorado.gov Advanced Search EIP Main Page Neisseria meningitidis Haemophilus influenzae Group A Streptococcus Group B Streptococcus Streptococcus pneumoniae ABCs - Streptococcus pneumoniae Invasive disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae
            (pneumococcus) frequently manifests as bacteremia (bloodstream infections), pneumonia or
            meningitis. Persons at highest risk include children under two years of age, the elderly,
            and those with underlying medical conditions.  Among healthy adults, cigarette
            smoking has been established to be an important risk factor for invasive pneumococcal
            disease.  A recently licensed (February 2000) conjugate vaccine is effective in
            preventing invasive pneumococcal
            disease in infants and young children.   An older polysaccharide vaccine is available
            to prevent invasive disease in older adults/adults with underlying medical conditions.
            Antibiotic resistance has become an increasing problem among isolates of S. pneumoniae. 
Surveillance for invasive pneumococcal disease provides an assessment of rates and risk
            factors, monitoring of antibiotic resistance, and evaluation of pneumococcal vaccine
            effectiveness. View more information on
            Streptococcus pneumoniae Review the Methods and Case Definitions for
            the EIP ABCs Project Streptococcus pneumoniae
            in Colorado Drug-resistant
          Streptococcus pneumoniae Active Surveillance, Denver Metro Area, 7/00-6/01 Summary
          of Denver Metro Invasive Pneumococcal Serotypes, 2002 Graph - Annual incidence of invasive
            pneumococcal disease in Colorado, 2000 Table - Rates and
            Case Fatality Percents of Invasive Pneumococcal Disease by Age
            Group: Denver Metropolitan Area, 2001 Table - Rates of Invasive Pneumococcal Disease by Race and Ethnicity; Colorado, 2000 Table - Sterile Sites from which
              Invasive Pneumococcal Disease was Isolated: Denver Metropolitan
              Area, 2000 Table - Syndromes Associated with
              Invasive Pneumococcal Disease: Denver Metropolitan Area, 2000 Table - Rates of Invasive
              Pneumococcal Disease by County: Denver Metropolitan Area, 2001 Table
                - Most Common Invasive Pneumococcal Disease
              Serotypes: Denver Metropolitan Area, 2001 Streptococcus pneumoniae
            on the Web ACIP Recommendations - Preventing pneumococcal disease among
            infants and young children . ACIP Recommendations - Prevention of
            Pneumococcal Disease: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices . MMWR and EID articles on Streptococcus pneumoniae Special Projects Case-Control Study - The
            effectiveness of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in children. January 2001 - December 2003 Objectives: To
            measure the effectiveness of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine against invasive disease
            among children 3 to 59 months old, including age group and serotype specific
            effectiveness. Also, to assess crossover effectiveness for non-covered serotypes and
            evaluate possible risk factors for invasive disease. Comparison of local and reference
            lab susceptibility testing results for Streptococcus pneumoniae. January - July 2001 Objectives:
            To compare local clinical laboratory minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) results from
            within the surveillance area to the results obtained from a gold standard reference
            laboratory for the same isolates from within that surveillance area, quantify the
            frequency and magnitude of discrepancies, and to identify characteristics of laboratories
            whose results are more likely to c