
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 07:37:10 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture Intake Forms Information | Acupuncture Guide Acupuncture Guide Acupuncture Intake Forms Section Home Videos BlogOsphere Podcasts Shop Hot Off The Press A Day In History Acupuncture Intake Forms Navigation Alternative Medicines Guide Home Page Partners Tell A Friend about us Acupuncture Schools | History Of Acupuncture | Scalp Acupuncture Treatments | Acupuncture Pressure Points | Acupuncture Weight Loss | Acupuncture Point | Acupuncture Points | Acupuncture Charts | Acupuncture Chart | Electro Acupuncture | List of Acupuncture Articles Acupuncture Intake Forms Best  seller Buy it Now! Best Acupuncture Intake Forms products Sitemap Social bookmarking You like it? Share it! Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter AND receive our exclusive Special Report on Acupuncture Email: First Name: Submit your articles on Acupuncture Intake Forms! Main  Acupuncture Intake Forms sponsors Latest Acupuncture Intake Forms Link Added
INSERT YOUR OWN BANNER HERE Submit your link on Acupuncture Intake Forms! Welcome to Acupuncture Guide Acupuncture Intake Forms Article . For a permanent link to this article, or to bookmark it for further reading, click here . ﻿Treating Varicose Veins with Acupuncture from : When the veins in your lower leg swell, widen, enlarge, or extend, you have a condition that is known as varicose veins. With varicose veins, the skin underneath the skin becomes highly visible and may vary in color from pink, red, purple, blue or black lines and may include clots. For those with severe cases, the veins may look like earthworms. Some of the symptoms of varicose veins include skin changes, damage, sclerosis, heaviness, weakness, fatigue, and leg pain. Although most people think surgery is the only treatment for varicose veins, acupuncture is quite effective for this condition. Chinese medical theory believes varicose veins are the result of stagnant blood that can be produced by many underlying factors. During this condition, an abnormal blood flow occurs, so by treating key points with the meridian areas, it forces the blood to move into the veins and the areas around them. People who are being treated for varicose veins with acupuncture may feel tingling or have a sensation of heaviness. Some patients may even feel itchy once the blood in the veins begins flowing again, but the blood will be unable to circulate until any stagnant blood remaining in the vessels is removed completely by new blood. The improvement that results from treating varicose veins with acupuncture is gradual. Depending on how severe your case is, you may need several treatments to eliminate your varicose veins. Acupuncture will restore the veins to normal, but you can soak in a hot tub or other means in order to speed the process. Unlike traditional treatments for varicose veins, acupuncture has no side effects. Surgical procedures do not always cure the problem, and sometimes may even make it worse. Most people just choose to live with the condition instead of attempting to correct it. The problem is you are left with pain and swelling in your legs that may increase over time. If you have a severe case of varicose veins, acupuncture may be the answer to your prayers. That doesn’t mean only those with severe cases should consider acupuncture, but at the same time, if you don’t suffer from serious problems, you may want to let the condition manifest itself into something more serious before you seek treatment of any kind. The more severe the case is, the more likely it will be that the treatment will be effective. Not only that but waiting will make it easier to see the extent of the damage and allow a patient to notice the difference.  In addition, most people do not believe in any kind of medical intervention, traditional or alternative, until nothing else works. Other Acupuncture Intake Forms related Articles What Is Acupuncture Scalp Acupuncture Treatments Acupuncture Today History Of Acupuncture Acupuncture Points Do you want to contribute to our site : submit your articles HERE Warning :  file(http://www.searchfeed.com/rd/feed/TextFeed.jsp?trackID=T1317057850&pID=66373&cat=acupuncture+intake+forms&nl=5&page=1&excID=) [ function.file ]: failed to open stream: HTTP request failed! HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
 in /home/emedia/public_html/acupuncture/datas/searchfeed.php on line 8 Acupuncture Intake Forms Specific links Acupuncture Intake Forms News Copyright © 2012 Acupuncture Guide | Terms Of Service | 