Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 28 Jun 2005 22:15:46 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "01567ee2e7cc51:61d"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 23:07:43 GMT
Connection: close

Gene Therapy Index to this page Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID) Treatment Options: Gene Therapy: requirements Packaging Cells Target Cells T cells Stem cells Gene Therapy for SCID-X1 Gene Therapy Many human diseases are caused by defective genes. A few common examples: Disease Genetic defect hemophilia A absence of clotting factor VIII cystic fibrosis defective chloride channel protein muscular dystrophy defective muscle protein (dystrophin) sickle-cell disease defective beta globin hemophilia B absence of clotting factor IX severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) any one of several genes fail to make a protein essential for T and B cell function All of these diseases are caused by a defect at a single gene locus . (The inheritance is recessive so both the maternal and paternal copies of the gene must be defective.) Is there any hope of introducing functioning genes into these patients to correct their disorder? Probably. Other diseases, also have a genetic basis, but it appears that several genes must act in concert to produce the disease phenotype . The prospects of gene therapy in these cases seems far more remote. Case study: severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) SCID is a disease in which the patient has neither cell-mediated immune responses nor is able to make antibodies . It is a disease of young children because, until recently, the absence of an immune system left them prey to infections that ultimately killed them. About 25% of the cases of SCID are the result of the child being homozygous for defective genes encoding the enzyme adenosine deaminase ( ADA ). The normal catabolism of purines is deficient, and this is particularly toxic for T cells and B cells. Treatment Options: Raise the child in a strictly germfree environment : all food, water, and air to be sterilized. David, the "bubble boy" from Houston, survived this way until he was 12 years old. Give the child a transplant of bone marrow from a normal, histocompatible , donor. Ideally, this would give the child a continuous source of ADA + T and B cells. However, even though the child cannot reject the transplant (the child has no immune system), T cells in the transplant (unless the donor was an identical twin) can attack the cells of the child producing graft-versus-host disease . the donor cells may be infected with a virus which could overwhelm the recipient before his or her immune system was restored. (David received a bone marrow transplant from his sister, but she, like many people, had been infected earlier with the Epstein-Barr virus (the cause of "mono")). The virus was still present in the cells she donated, and killed her brother. Give injections of ADA (the enzyme is currently extracted from cows). When conjugated with polyethylene glycol (PEG) to delay its breakdown in the blood, ADA-PEG injections have kept SCID patients reasonably healthy. But just like the insulin injections of a diabetic, they must be repeated at frequent intervals. So, what about giving the patient functioning ADA genes; that is, gene therapy ? Gene Therapy: requirements The gene must be identified and cloned .This has been done for the ADA gene. It must be inserted in cells that can take up longterm residence in the patient. So far, this means removing the patient's own cells , treating them in tissue culture, and then returning them to the patient. It must be inserted in the DNA so that it will be expressed adequately; that is, transcribed and translated with sufficient efficiency that worthwhile amounts of the enzyme are produced. All these requirements seem to have been met for SCID therapy using a retrovirus as the gene vector . Retroviruses have several advantages for introducing genes into human cells. Their envelope protein enables the virus to infect human cells. RNA copies of the human ADA gene can be incorporated into the retroviral genome using a packaging cell. Packaging cells are treated so they express: an RNA copy of the human ADA gene along with a packaging signal ( P ) needed for the assembly of fresh virus particles inverted repeats (" R ") at each end; to aid insertion of the DNA copies into the DNA of the target cell. an RNA copy of the retroviral gag , pol , and env genes but with no packaging signal (so these genes cannot be incorporated in fresh viral particles). Treated with these two genomes, the packaging cell produces a crop of retroviruses with: the envelope protein needed to infect the human target cells an RNA copy of the human ADA gene, complete with R sequences at each end reverse transcriptase , needed to make a DNA copy of the ADA gene that can be inserted into the DNA of the target cell none of the genes (gag, pol, env) that would enable the virus to replicate in its new host. Once the virus has infected the target cells, this RNA is reverse transcribed into DNA and inserted into the chromosomal DNA of the host. What to use for target cells ? T cells The first attempts at gene therapy for SCID children (in 1990), used their own T cells (produced following ADA-PEG therapy) as the target cells. The T cells were: placed in tissue culture stimulated to proliferate (by treating them with the lymphokine , Interleukin 2 (IL-2) infected with the retroviral vector returned, in a series of treatments, to the child The children developed improved immune function but: the injections had to be repeated because T cells live for only 6-12 months in the blood But someday there may be a way to make genetically-engineered T cells live indefinitely by getting them to express telomerase . See the discussion . the children also continued to receive ADA-PEG so the actual benefit of the gene therapy was unclear Stem cells In 1993, ADA gene therapy was attempted with blood stem cells removed from the umbilical cords of three newborn babies who were known to be homozygous for ADA deficiency. Blood stem cells: produce (by mitosis) all the types of blood cells, including T and B lymphocytes produce (by mitosis) more stem cells , thus ensuring an inexhaustible supply Discussion of blood stem cells Blood stem cells are present in everyone's bone marrow, but represent only a tiny fraction of the total cells present there. Umbilical cord blood has a much higher proportion of stem cells in it. At last report, some of the circulating T cells in these children carried the ADA gene. But because the children continue to receive ADA-PEG, it is unclear how much gene therapy has contributed to their good health. Gene Therapy for SCID-X1 The results are clear in a test of gene therapy on two boys in France described in a report in the April 28, 2000 issue of Science . These boys suffered from another form of severe combined immunodeficiency - called SCID-X1 - because they inherited a mutant X-linked gene for a subunit of the receptor for several interleukins, including interleukin-7 ( IL-7 ). IL-7 is essential for converting stem cells into the progenitors of T cells . [ View ]. Boys with SCID-X1 can make normal B cells , but because B cells need T-helper cells to function, these boys could make neither cell-mediated nor antibody-mediated immune responses and had to live in a sterile bubble before their treatment. The French doctors isolated stem cells from each boy treated the cells with a retroviral vector containing the normal gene for the interleukin receptor subunit (called gamma-c) returned the treated cells to each donor. The results: After 10 months, the boys have been able to leave their bubbles and lead normal lives have normal numbers of T cells of both the CD4 and CD8 subsets have responded to vaccination against diphtheria , tetanus and poliovirus by producing both T cells and antibodies specific for these agents. Link to discussion of other approaches to gene the