Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Fish Oil (EPA/DHA):Not Just Another Fish Story UCMWG Universal City Medical Wellness Group Home About Contact MySpace Universal City Medical Wellness Group ››See Us On Myspace Home Slow Connection Contact Meet Our Doctors Doctor Bio's David Rekar MD James Barrass DC Info Aaron Orpelli DC: -Why I Became A Doctor Aaron Orpelli DC Info Patient Successes Yelp   Reviews 1 Yelp Reviews 2 Yelp: Dr Orpelli    a> Marina V Success Website Successes Website Successes 2 Website Successes 3 Search Site Search Videos Dr. Mike Video UCMG Video Tour Our MySpace Home Video Tour Blogs President Obama On Prevention, Wellness And Chiropractic(1) (2) Custom Search Expand All | Collapse All Main Menu Home Free Consultation Order Supplements Latest Articles Autism Chiropractic And Blood Pressure Cold Laser Therapy Fish Oil - EPA/DHA Green Tea: Natures Elixir Laughter And Medicine Magnesium The Magnificent Magnet Therapy Music And Medicine Pets and Medicine Probiotics and Prebiotics Vitamin D Back Surgery? Holistic Articles Conditions A-F Adrenal Fatigue Help Alzheimer's Autism Fibromyalgia G-L heart disease & high cholesterol M-R Parkinson's Psychiatric Illness Holistic Approaches S-Z Mind Body Spirit Laughter And Medicine Nutrients A-F Fish Oil: EPA/DHA Probiotics And Prebiotics Vitamin D G-L Green Tea: Natures Elixir M-R Magnesium The Magnificent S-Z Treatments Chiropractic & Blood Pressure Cold Laser Therapy Magnet Therapy Massage Effective Staying Healthy Music And Medicine Pets And Medicine Healthy Habits How Much Water? About Us Multidisciplinary Practice Meet Our Doctors David Mark Rekar MD James Barrass DC Aaron Orpelli DC Aaron Orpelli's Story Happiness Practice Good Deed Contest Video Tours New Patient Forms new patient - general personal injury pg1 personal injury pg2 personal injury pg3 PI printing instructions doctor_predisignation Our Patients Speak restored energy crohn's disease Free Consultations Conditions Treated Chronic Fatigue Depression Glandular Disorders Glandular Disorders Adrenal Malfunction Hands Wrists Carpal Tunnel Mid-Back Pain Mid-Back Pain Mid Back-Shoulder Blade Pain Neck Pain Shoulder Pain Conditions Treated List Personal Injury Car Accident Injuries Alternative Medicine Techniques Proprioceptive Posture Pump Physical Therapy Rehabilitative Exercise Artists' Health Dancers' Health & Nutrition Athletes' Health Sports Medicine Musicians' Health Vocalists' Health Hands Wrists Carpal Tunnel Musicians' Hands Wellness Services Anti-Aging Boosting Immunity Nutrition Exercise Weight Loss Work Related Injuries Educational Services Seminars Videos Health Glossaries Conditions mid back pain Nutrition & Environmental Additives/Food Ingredients GMOs and GMF Allergins Nutrients Toxins Treatments Original Site Health Workshops Dear Patient, As a new patient to the Universal City Medical Wellness Group, we urge you to attend our weekly health workshops, Tuesday evenings at 8:00 p.m. We consider attending these talks, getting informed about your body and your problems to be a very essential part of your treatment. I have found that patients who attend actually have speedier recoveries, because they understand and help themselves to get well. They also gain knowledge to prevent future problems. There are seven different topics in the series. Total Health is the first and important to all of our patients. In this health talk we cover methods to reverse almost any illness and how to avoid the most dangerous health mistakes. Vital information on the health of your nerve system and spine is covered. Next is Gland and Hormonal Balance . We address the natural correction of gland disorders (thyroid, adrendal, ovaries, testes, etc.), how glands are balanced and how to restore them when they're in trouble. The third talk is Energy , Blood Sugar and the Zone. In this universally needed workshop, we cover the surprisingly broad effects of low blood sugar on health, nutritional breakthroughs for energy regeneration, and the newest research on how to eat for health and "The Zone." Alt Health Links Here are some  links to web sites covering complementary alternative medicine (CAM) topics: 1) Visit the  National Center For Complemetary and Alternative Medicine 2) Legal help for Complementary Alternative Medicine (CAM) practices Other Stuff: Some Helpful Contacts: 1) startranking.com Holistic Articles: Nutrition - EPA/DHA Fish Oil (EPA/DHA):  Not Just Another Fish Story Omega-3 Fatty Acids , found mainly in fish oils, are thought to be beneficial for numerous medical conditions.  The oilier fish, such as tuna, sardines, salmon, mackerel and herring, contain more fatty acids.   Two long chain Omega-3 Fatty Acids, EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) have been the subject of many medical studies.  These essential fatty acids are natural anti-inflammatories.  It is now becoming clearer that inflammation may be the common denominator of numerous medical conditions including Heart Disease, Hypertension, Diabetes, Alzheimer's Disease, Depression, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Dementia, and perhaps even Osteoporosis, Lupus, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Sjogren's Syndrome, Dermatomyositis, as well as Ulcerative Colitis, Crohn's Disease and Asthma.   In an  article in the Internal Medicine News of 2004 it was stated that, "All the evidence now suggests that inflammation may be a hallmark for depression as it is for cardiovascular disease, " and that, "depression is associated with low cell membrane levels of Omega-3 fatty acids, specifically DHA and EPA".  Omega-3 fatty acids are an important component of nerve membranes and influence membrane fluidity, signal transduction, and enzyme function.  Furthermore Omega-3 fatty acids are felt to be anti-thrombotic (preventing blood clots), and cause endothelial relaxation (the cells that line our blood vessels), as well reduce susceptibility to irregular heart rhythms.  Notably the brain is an astonishing 60-percent fat and needs Omega-3 fatty acids to function properly.  It is also felt that, aside from promoting cardio-vascular and neurological health, EPA and DHA promote joint health, gastrointestinal health, a healthy mood, glucose and insulin homeostasis, immune response, and bone, skin, and retinal health.  By supporting healthy cell membrane structure, these Omega-3 fatty acids support cell receptor function and gene expression. As noted above, EPA and DHA are long chain Omega-3 (polyunsaturated) fatty acids which are produced from essential fatty acids that can not be manufactured in the body.  Accordingly they may be consumed in the diet, such as eating cold water fish, or provided in supplement form.  The typical American diet contains approximately 10-30 times more Omega-6 fatty acids, which are pro-inflammatory, than Omega-3 fatty acids.  The high levels of methyl-mercury and PCBs found in fish have caused the government to publish certain guidelines on fish and seafood consumption.  For instance by some FDA figures, eating two cans of canned albacore tuna per week would exceed the Environmental Protection Agency's safe range by 300%.  The FDA recommended that children and women of childbearing age should limit fish consumption to 12 oz. a week and avoid such fish as tile fish, mackerel, king fish, sword fish and shark.   It is therefore more advisable to obtain the majority of Omega-3 fatty acids from supplements that are purified of heavy metals and pesticides.  As noted in the Archives of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine in 2003, "Fish are rich in Omega-3 fatty acids and their consumption is recommended to decrease the risk of coronary artery disease, however fish such as swordfish are also a source of exposure to the heavy metal toxin mercury.  The fish oil brands examined in this manuscript have negligible amounts of mercury and may provide a safer alternative to fish consumption."  As noted in the Cleveland Clinic Journal of Medicine in March of 2004, "The American Heart Association recommends 1 gram of long chain Omega-3 fatty acids per day for those with known coronary heart disease.  People with no known heart disease should eat oily fish at least twice a week."  In addition that same article noted, "Since mercury toxicity is mostly a concern for fetuses and breast-fed infants, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's advice to avoid contaminated fish is directed primarily at pregnant women, those wanting to become pregnant, and nursing mothers." Recent research has also suggested that fish oil may be useful as an adjunct for weight loss.  A study done in Australia and published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition suggested that when exercise was combined with fish oil supplements this led to a leaner body than simply exercise alone.  Another study published in that same journal showed that mice which were obesity prone and fed high fat diets gained less weight when the diet was supplemented with fish oil.  It is believed that the mechanism of weight loss is due to the up-regulation of intestinal lipid metabolism and quite possibly promoting lipolysis and apoptosis (death) of pre-fat cells. As noted previously, fish oil supplementation may prove beneficial for numerous neurological conditions, including depression, dementia, autism spectrum disorders, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia, in addition to multiple sclerosis. In an article published in the Internal Medicine News in 2002 it was noted that when a fish oil diet was combined with Ginkgo Biloba supplementation, the patients treated showed significantly less disease progression in the active treatment group, and demonstrated a beneficial effect upon memory, attention, and functioning.  In an article published in the Archives of General Psychiatry in 2002 it was concluded that, "Treatment with EPA/DHA at a dosage of 1000 milligrams a day was effective at treating depression in patients who remained depressed despite adequate standard therapy".  In another article published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in August of 2004 it was concluded that, "Major depression is strongly associated with increased levels of CRP among men and could explain the increased risk of cardiovascular disease associated with depression in men."  Notably CRP is a marker of inflammation.  Another interesting study was documented in the Newsweek article in 2001 in which 30 bipolar patients were treated with either 10 grams of Omega-3 fatty acids or placebo.  The patients receiving the fish oil supplementation improved so much better that the study was discontinued and all patients were switched over to fish oil supplementation.  In that same article it was noted that doctors have also gotten impressive results using fish oil supplementation in patients with schizophrenia as well as depression. While EPA and DHA are found almost exclusively in seafood it is interesting to note that fish actually do not produce them.  It is the single-cell marine organisms that fish eat which actually produce these oils, and so they are not only essential for fish but for human beings as well. There are additional sources of DHA which have been found including some fungal and algae sources.  Alpha-linoleic acid, which is also an Omega-3 fatty acid, is synthesized in the chloroplasts of leaves, as well as seed oils.  Flaxseed oil is one rich source, in addition to Camelina, Chia, and Peria oils, as well as Olive oil, Canola oil and Soy bean oils. Alpha-linoleic acid is also found in nuts, primarily walnuts.  Alpha linoleic acid is actually a precursor in the production of DHA, however only approximately 1-9% of Alpha linoleic acid is actually converted into DHA. The question then remains of what dosage to use for specific benefits.  Most of the studies have examined doses ranging from 1000 milligrams up to 20,000 milligrams a day.  Doses ranging from 3 - 20 grams a day have been used in studies for benefits on blood lipids (notably triglycerides) platelet function, blood pressure, blood vessel flexibility, inflammation and endothelial function.  One study suggested that 1500 milligrams a day of EPA/DHA appeared to stabilize carotid artery plaques.  There is less information available on the effects of lower intakes, less than 1000 milligrams a day.  The American Heart Association recommends 1000 milligrams of EPA/DHA a day for patients with coronary heart disease, as well as recommending eating oily fish twice a week or 500 milligrams per day for patients without any known heart disease.  In order to lower triglyceride levels doses need to be increased from 2000-4000 milligrams a day.  As noted above, bipolar patients responded to higher doses of 10,000 milligrams a day. Finally there are concerns about toxins in fish as noted above, including mercury and PCBs.  Fish on the top of the marine food chain can bioconcentrate mercury.  Fish oil capsules contain no mercury, which is water soluble, not oil soluble, so that when the oil is extracted from the fish, the mercury as well as other heavy metals, including lead and  cadmium stays behind in the fish meal.  A consumer report examined 16 different brands of fish oil capsules and concluded that the EPA and DHA amounts found were reasonably close to their label claims and that all were free of pollutants.  It should also be noted that while farm fish and wild fish are both good sources of Omega-3 fatty acids, farm fish may contain higher amounts of organic pollutants, since the fish oil put in their feed is not purified in the way that supplements are for human consumption.  Wild salmon, which is caught earlier in their journey upstream to spawn, are richer in oil.  As the fish make their way upstream their fat stores are utilized for energy. In conclusion it appears that Fish oil may have many diverse benefits which are currently emerging with ongoing research. Best in Health, David M. Rekar, M.D. Medical Director [ Fish Oil & EPA/DHA Pills Image Thanks To spcummings at Flickr.com.] Universal City Medical Wellness Group (UCMWG) is a Multidisciplinary & Complementary Alternative Medical Group near Universal Studios, Studio City, Hollywood, North Hollywood, Burbank & Toluca Lake, in L.A. We Specialize In: Complementary Holistic Medicine . Sports Medicine / Chiropractic Nutrition & Preventive Medicine Physical Therapy Musician's Injuries & Problems Vocalists & Dancers Health Internal Medicine Family Medicine Personal Injury We are providers for: - 
        Blue Cross - Blue Shield - United Health - AFTRA - Medicare - SAG - Motion Picture 
        Health and Welfare - Aetna - Most PPO's Accepted Order Supplements: Click Here To Order Metagenics Nutritional Supplements through our Online Store . March and April Only: Biospec Supplements Are Now 15% Off. To View Biospec Products Click Here . For our patients: To receive  discounted prices place your orders directly through our office at (323)436-0303. PLEASE read Site Terms And Conditions and Return Policy carefully before ordering. Location & Schedule: Universal City Medical Wellness Group is located at 3535 Cahuenga Blvd. West Suite 208 Los Angeles, CA   9006 (click for map to UCMWG) Call For a Free Consultation: (323)436-0303 Weekday Schedule: M-F except Tues :10:30-6:15 Tues . 4:00-6:15 Sat. Schedule - Click Here News And Resources + In The News BPA - Canada vs US Rest + Helpful Articles + Mind Body Spirit Psychiatric Illness - Holistic Approaches Laughter and Medicine Music and Medicine Health Encyclopedia + Arts, Culture, Learning Arts Learning Liesure + Internet Interesting Links + Community Friends Of Animals + Recreation Health & Recreation Welcome We're Glad you're here. Our goal is to provide the best health service you have ever had. Whether your problem is a new injury or a chronic illness, we want to help you. You can expect us to use the most effective techniques in healing that can be found. Our orientation is to prefer natural approaches over drug or surgical methods. That way unnecessary side-effects and complications can be avoided. We have an unusually broad range of health experience. You will probably be surprised at the wide range of patients we have served, and the different conditions that have been cured by our methods. The ages of our patients have spanned from 6 hours-old to 106 years-old. Some or all of our techniques will be new to you. When  we have our first consultation together, we'd like you to tell us what your chief health problem is. Because we view the relationships between differnt symptoms, we will prefer you to tell us about other health problems or illnesses as well. That way we can get to the bottom of things. You may be surprised by our thoroughness. After consulting with you, if we believe we can help you, we will let you know. If not, we will let you know also. We're looking forward to including you among our friends who have valued our contributions to their health. The Doctors of U.C.M.W.G. Featured Article: Canada Confirms Labeling of BPA “Toxic” Canadian Health Minister Tony Clement announced yesterday that Canada would ban bisphenol , also known as BPA , in baby bottles as well as asking formula makers to reduce leaching from cans, the Globe and Mail reports today. This represents a tough stand on bottles but a fairly soft one on other products which affect infants and young children - sippy cups, utensils, tableware, pacifiers, and teethers.   It suggests there may be no ffirm requirements for eliminating BPA from formula containers or glass baby food jar lids. From the Mail: Although the government doesn’t expect to formally ban polycarbonate baby bottles for another year, the use of the product is coming to a rapid end in Canada anyway. Throughout the week, retailers across the country took the nearly unprecedented step of stripping their shelves of polycarbonate bottles used by infants and adults in the face of overwhelming consumer rejection of the product. Canada on its own has never taken an international lead to ban the use of controversial substances. The move against bisphenol A, which is able to mimic the female hormone estrogen, is being compared with decisions made by the United States and other countries more than 30 years ago to curb the use of the insecticide DDT - the first major chemical challenged on public health and environmental grounds Copyright © 2002-2008 - UCMWG- All Rights Reserved Site Terms & Conditions | Return Policy |I