
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 23:45:51 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.8 (Fedora)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey :  New Zealand Honey - NZ Shop  : The Honey Shop Home Gift Certificates Site Map About Us Contact Us Help Korean Japanese Chinese German French English US Dollar Euro New Zealand Dollar Australian Dollar British Pound Canadian Dollar Hong Kong Dollar Japanese Yen Korean Won Singapore Dollar South African Rand Swiss Franc Chinese RMB Delivering New Zealand Honey to the world Search for Products: February 16, 2012 12:45  NZT Login E-Mail Address: Password: > Forgotten password? > Create an Account Categories Home-> Advancis Medical Medical Honey Manuka Honey Health Home » Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey [AMD003000000/5592] US$54.45 Qty. Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey - Click to enlarge Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey Activon is the Link Between Honey and Health! Give your body New Zealand Manuka Honey products for honey health. Enjoy the health benefits of honey with this Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey. Actilite is made from knitted viscose and coated with Activon+ Manuka Honey. It’s designed to help protect the wound and promoted healing as it allows the natural passage of exudates as part of the body’s healing process. Not all honey health products have the research they need to back up their claims. Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey uses honey which is equivalent to UMF 14, for a broad-spectrum antibacterial effect. It’s effective against most wound invading bacteria, including the drug resistant MRSA. Advancis Medical’s laboratory tests have shown that dressings based on Activon + Manuka Honey out performed povidone iodine dressings, and several silver based dressings. Case studies involving Activon demonstrate its effectiveness at promoting healing, improving the appearance of wounds and most importantly, improving the patient’s quality of life. Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey: Promotes healing Provides a reduction in wound odor Has a broad spectrum antibacterial effect Provides moist wound healing May reduce the need for antibiotics in some patients Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey is gentle on your skin. Whatever the wound, Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey can help. Use this dressing on all wound types, including: superficial wounds, partial or full thickness wounds such as cuts and abrasions, pressure ulcers, leg ulcers, surgical wounds, burns and graft sites. Directions : Place Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey directly onto the wound, with either side facing down. For larger wounds, multiple dressings can be placed side by side, while for smaller wounds, this Manuka Honey Dressing may be cut to size with clean, sharp scissors. Cover Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey with a second dressing of your choice to keep it in place. Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey may be changed daily, or left in place for up to seven days, but for maximum effectiveness should be changed when the dressing color changes. In rare cases it may be helpful to irrigate the wound bed with saline solution to facilitate the dressing change. Contraindications : a known allergy to bee venom, bee products or essential oils such as tea tree oils. Although Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey contains glucose it is considered safe for use by diabetics. However, it is advisable to closely monitor blood sugar levels during use. A few patients experience increased pain due when this dressing is applied, but this can be helped by ensuring the dressing is at room temperature before using. Reach for honey health, naturally, with Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey. Actilite Antibacterial Dressing and other Advancis Medical Manuka Honey products will help you capture the health benefits of honey for yourself. Actilite Antibacterial Dressing with Activon+ Manuka Honey is Sterile and Latex Free . Each pack of Activon Manuka Honey Tulle Dressings contains ten sterile dressings measuring 10cm x 10cm (3.94in x 3.94in) or 10cm x 20cm (3.94in x 7.88in). Choose the size you need from the drop down menu below. This listing is for the smaller size dressing and there is an extra charge for the larger, 10cm x 20cm dressings as noted below. Related Products Honey Health Medical Honey UMF Manuka Honey Available Options: Size: 10x20 (AMD00300L20C) (+US$29.75) 10x10(AMD00300S10C) More Information: Goods in Transit.
Please allow an additional 3 to 5 working days on top of normal delivery for this product. Delivery Weight 0.26 kg Current Reviews: 0 Qty. Shopping Cart 0 items Follow us Tell A Friend Tell someone you know about this product. Trade Enquiries | Terms & Conditions | Copyright | Affiliates | Privacy & Security ©2005 - 2010. E-Comme