Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 13:48:18 GMT
Connection: close

mlns:fb="https://www.facebook.com/2008/fbml"> Which compression level is right for you? - DiscountSurgical.com $0.00 (0 Item) Your shopping cart is empty My Account • Quick Reorder • Automatic Reordering About Us • Contact Us • Satisfaction Guarantee • Returns • Wholesale Prefer a printed catalog? Request a free catalog featuring our value brand compression stockings . Shop by Brand Value Brand Stockings Jobst Stockings Sigvaris Stockings Juzo Stockings Medi Stockings Truform Stockings FLA Orthopedics Circaid Shop by Type Compression Stockings Arm Sleeves/Gauntlets Travel Socks Diabetic Socks Athletic Performance Accessories CUSTOMER SERVICE About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Satisfaction Guarantee Returns/Exchanges Information Which compression level is right for you? How To Measure Coach Class Syndrome Risks of Deep Vein Thrombosis while Traveling Jobst Custom Spider Vein Info No Foot Exclusive How to Wash Compression Stockings Enter your email address to receive special offers! Which compression level is right for you? Compression 
stockings are medical grade devices designed to move blood flow. Support
 compression stockings are made available in multiple compression 
support levels. Most commonly compression support stockings come in mild
 (8-15 mmHg), Medium (15-20 mmHg), Firm (20-30 mmHg), X-Firm 
(30-40 mmHg) gradient compression levels. Below you will find the standard  compression levels. Compression Therapy Guide 8-15 mmHg* [Mild Support ] 15-20 mmHg* [Medium Support ] 20-30 mmHg* [Firm Compression] 30-40 mmHg* [Extra Firm Compression] Provides relief and minimizes tired and achy legs. For the prevention and relief of minor to moderate varicose and spider veins. Helps prevent and relieve moderate to severe varicose veins (also during pregnancy). Helps prevent and relieve severe varicose veins. Prevents fatigued legs from long periods of sitting or standing. Helps relieve tired, aching legs, and minor swelling of feet, ankles, and legs. For post-surgical and post-sclerotherapy treatment to help prevent the reappearance of varicose and spider veins. Used in the treatment of severe edema and lymphedema. Helps relieve minor swelling of feet, ankles, and legs. During pregnancy, helps prevent varicose veins and spider veins. Helps in treatment of moderate to severe edema or lymphatic edema. Used in post-surgical and post-sclerotherapy treatment to help prevent the reappearance of varicose and spider veins. During pregnancy, helps prevent the formation of varicose and spider veins. Helps prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT), also known as economy class syndrome. Helps with the management of active ulcers and manifestations of post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS). Helps reduce symptoms of Orthostatic Hypotension and Postural Hypotension Helps maintain healthy, energized legs. Used in post-sclerotherapy treatment to help prevent the reappearance of varicose veins and spider veins. Helps relieve superficial thrombophlebitis. For the management of Venous Ulcers and manifestations of Post-Thrombotic Syndrome (PTS). Ideal compression level used for those traveling long distances. Helps prevent orthostatic hypotension (sudden fall in blood pressure when standing). Prevents deep vein thrombosis (DVT), also known as economy class syndrome. Helps prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT), also known as economy class syndrome. Gradient compression delivers a squeezing to the leg that is tightest at the ankle. The degree of squeezing or compression gradually decreases up the leg. This compression, generally expressed in mmHg (millimeters of mercury) provides two main benefits. A complete understanding of precisely how compression works remains unknown. Two actions are generally accepted. Probably the most beneficial effects of compression are its effects on the capillaries and tissue spaces. Compression is believed to increase the pressure in the tissues beneath the skin thus reducing excess leakage of fluid from the capillaries and increasing absorption of tissue fluid by the capillaries and lymphatic vessels. Compression therefore reduces and helps prevent swelling. The physical presence of the stocking also helps control the size (diameter) of superficial veins beneath the stocking. The stocking does not allow these superficial veins to over expand with blood. This action helps prevent "pooling". The venous blood then flows more quickly up the leg towards the heart. Graduated Compression Compression of a superficial vein © 2011 DiscountSurgical.com All Rights Reserved Questions? Comments? support@discountsurgical.com Help & Customer Service Home About Us Contact Us Satisfaction Guarantee Returns/Exchanges Privacy Policy Request a Catalog Absolute Support Support Socks Compression Hose Maternity Support Hose C