Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

AAMA Newsletter, October 2001 - page 2 In this issue Page 
        1 AAMA 
          president urges involvement Help 
          the Academy grow After 
          attack on US, Academy members jump right in to help More 
          AAMA members earn DABMA certification Page 
        2 Call 
          for Symposium posters Member 
          News MARF 
          Research Competition announced White 
          House Commission on CAM Policy issues repor t Page 
        3 MAAC 
          Update AAMA 
          Board nominees sought MARF 
          president outlines current projects AAMA 
          Chapter News Page 
        4 Study: 
          Positive side-effects of acupuncture are many Acupuncture 
          educational opportunities available Acupuncture 
          gets on track 'Father 
          of Acupuncture in America' dies Events 
        Database Previous 
        Issues AAMA Newsletter Serving the American Academy of Medical 
          Acupuncture October 2001 Page 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 Call 
          for Symposium posters This is a call 
          for abstracts of research projects or case reports to be presented as 
          Posters at AAMA's 14th Annual Symposium in Los Angeles, April 19-21, 
          2002. Due by Jan. 31, 2002, abstracts should be a 200-250 word description 
          of the research project and findings or be a summary of the case, treatment 
          approach and outcomes. They will be reviewed by the Poster Committee. 
          Authors of abstracts selected by the Committee will be invited to present 
          their work in Poster format at the Symposium. Poster presenters will 
          get 50% off their Symposium registration fee. Posters will be presented at the Symposium's Wine and Cheese Reception 
          and remain up the next day. Poster presenters will be invited to submit 
          their abstracts for publication in the journal, Medical Acupuncture. Abstracts should be submitted to AAMA offices by Jan. 31, 2002 to be 
          considered for Poster presentation. You are encouraged to submit the 
          abstract via e-mail, in Microsoft Word or text format, to: jdowden@prodigy.net . 
          Selected abstracts will be announced by late February. Call AAMA Executive Administrator James Dowden (323/937-5514) for further 
          information. Back to TOP Member 
          News Russ Erickson, 
          MD , was invited to give a talk in September to a Permanente Medical 
          Group ER physicians' educational conference. He presented a written 
          brief history, physiology and research paper for all participants and 
          centered the talk on practical acupuncture approaches to common acute 
          ER problems that can be used by any such physician. It was so well received 
          that he sent a copy of that part of the talk to all listed AAMA ER physicians 
          for their use with colleagues, as desired. Editor Richard Niemtzow, MD ( n5ev@aol.com ) 
          is seeking articles for AAMA's journal, Medical Acupuncture, which has 
          increased frequency from two to three issues annually. See submission 
          guidelines on the inside cover of any journal, which is mailed free 
          to Academy members. Ivanhoe, a syndicated agency specializing in health news produced for 
          TV stations nationwide based in Orlando, FL, interviewed a patient of Roberto Jodorkovsky, MD , whose asthma improved significantly 
          after she was treated with hand acupuncture. The interview included 
          a simulated treatment performed by the Academy member and a brief explanation 
          of his office-based integration of traditional and acupuncture treatment 
          for pediatric asthma. This interview is being shown on TV stations nationwide 
          during the 6 pm news. Viewers interested in pursuing acupuncture treatment 
          were advised to call AAMA's referral line. Members participating in AAMA's referral program will be happy to hear 
          that 671 inquiries came into national headquarters in June (2,477 website 
          hits to the referral page), 604 in July (3,181 hits) and 293 in August 
          (3,085 hits) from patients seeking medical acupuncturists. The toll-free 
          number patients are calling for referrals is 800/521-2262. Alison Lee, MD, DABMA , reports a quiet summer-"unless you 
          count 66 hours of labor to release the product of my past nine months 
          work on Aug. 15: Lydia Danielle at an amazing 8 pounds, 7 ounces and 
          20 inches at 7:35 pm (the treatment of De Morant for healthier, bigger, 
          more beautiful babies seems to have worked)." The proud mother 
          has returned to a busy lecture schedule, with engagements in October 
          that included an executive wellness center on Alternative Medicine for 
          Pain Management, and an Integrative Medicine Grand Rounds on Chinese 
          Medicine, with an emphasis on 5-Phase theory in conventional medical 
          practice at a local hospital. National Cancer Institute is looking for CAM that's helping cancer patients. 
          Data from best cases will receive NIH funding, recommendations, increased 
          awareness and feedback. For a submission package, e-mail: ncioccam-r@mail.nih.gov , 
          visit online: http://occam.nci.nih.gov or call 301/435-7980. John M. Ackerman, MD , urges members to look into benefits of 
          joining the International Association of Auricular Medicine ($45 annual 
          dues). He said IAAM is a democratic, multi-disciplinary association 
          that includes veterinary medicine, meetings, website chat room and peer-reviewed 
          Coherence-The Journal of Integrated Medicine. For more details, e-mail 
          Judy Krayk ( jkrayk@silcom.com ). To find technical articles on CAM, visit CAM on PubMed, a new subset 
          of a medical literature database that provides free access to more than 
          230,000 related journal citations. National Center for Complementary 
          and Alternative Medicine has partnered with National Library of Medicine 
          for this service, which can be found at NCCAM's website: http://nccam.nih.gov . Shu-Ming Wang, MD , who specializes in treating children, currently 
          has two clinical studies with articles published in Anesthesia and Analgesia 
          on auricular acupuncture for a decreased state of anxiety (February 
          2001 and November 2001, respectively). John Flanagan, MD , has resigned as a director from AAMA's Board 
          and as chairman of the 2002 Symposium for health reasons. Sai H. Oh, MD , was a featured speaker at the 25th annual Meeting 
          of American Society of Orthopedic Physical Assistants in July in Chattanooga, 
          TN. He presented an overview of medical acupuncture and the role of 
          acupuncture in musculoskeletal disorder. AAMA Treasurer Nader Soliman, MD, DABMA , has a new e-mail address: alternativemedicinecenter@msn.com . Joseph Helms, MD , is offering the following equipment free: Videonics 
          Edit Suite: A/B Roll Edit Controller, Sony Edit Studio: Video Sketch 
          Titler X V-T33 and 1998 Family Medicine Board Review Video Program by 
          George Washington University School of Medicine faculty (used only once). 
          Call 510/841-7600. British Medical Journal recently gave medical acupuncture a shot in 
          the arm with the editorial, "The Safety of Acupuncture: Acupuncture 
          is Safe in the Hands of Competent Practitioners." Two papers were 
          cited: "The York acupuncture safety study: prospective survey of 
          34,000 treatments by traditional acupuncturists" (BMJ 2001; 323: 
          486-487) and "Adverse events following acupuncture: prospective 
          survey of 32,000 consultations with doctors and physiologists" 
          (BMJ 2001; 323: 485-486). To read these studies (which feature data 
          collected by British Medical Acupuncture Society), visit: http://bmj.com/cgi/content/full/323/7311/486 and http://bmj.com/cgi/content/full/323/7311/485 , 
          respectively. William D. Rutenberg, MD , obtained media attention for the Academy 
          by sending out a press release announcing his election to the Board 
          of Directors. After the ICMART/DAGfA Symposium in Berlin last summer, participants 
          issued a statement on the value of medical acupuncture. Joseph Helms, 
          MD, shared this directive for collaborative effort, in which delegates 
          committed to: 1) set up unified international Western quality standards 
          of medical acupuncture in education, practice and research according 
          to principles of orthodox Western medicine; 2) strengthen relationships 
          between national medical acupuncture societies in Europe and the rest 
          of the world; 3) further collaboration with the World Health Organisation 
          and 4) extend national cooperation with universities, national medical 
          and healthcare instituions, health funding and patient organizations 
          and other medical groups of acupuncture and TCM. The article, "Back on Track," about using medical acupuncture 
          to treat chronic low back pain coauthored by John P. Kohler, MD, was 
          published in Practical Pain Management (July/August 2001). The piece 
          focused on the history and advantages of medical acupuncture, concluding 
          with the general surgeon's credentials and his affiliation with AAMA. Send your news to: bdortberg@aol.com . Back to TOP MARF 
          Research Competition announced MARF Research 
          Competition Chair Lowell E. Kobrin, MD, PhD, announces the call for 
          entries for the annual MARF Acupuncture Research Award, sponsored by 
          Seirin-America. Submissions must be received by Jan. 31, 2002. First-, second- and third-place awards will be given: First Place: 
            $3,000 Paper to be presented at the AAMA Symposium in Los Angeles, April 
            2002, Symposium registration, travel to $500, three nights hotel lodging 
            for the presenting author Second Place: 
            $2,000 Symposium reg, travel to the AAMA Symposium paid to $500 Third Place: $1,000 Symposium registration in Los Angeles Papers for second and third 
        place to be announced at the 2002 AAMA Symposium, and authors to be acknowledged. All submissions must be in English. All proprietary rights to the research 
        work are reserved to the author(s), including future right to publish 
        any and all aspects of the research. Acknowledgement of receipt of the submission will be sent within 15 working 
        days. The MARF board will assign a panel of judges. Winners will be selected 
        at the sole discretion of the judges and the MARF board. Winners will 
        be notified in adequate time to attend the spring Symposium. For a complete set of rules and more information, contact MARF Executive 
        Administrator Todd C. Royal (818/906-3173, toddroyal@yahoo.com ) 
        or Dr. Kobrin ( lekobrin@earthlink.net ). Back to TOP White 
          House Commission on CAM Policy issues report James S. Gordon, 
          MD, chair of the White House Commission on Complementary and Alternative 
          Medicine Policy (WHCCAMP) and Commission Executive Director Stephen 
          C. Groft, Pharm.D., recently presented an update to NACCAM. The WHCCAMP, established by President Clinton in March 2000, has been 
          charged with making recommendations to the president on a variety of 
          CAM policy and legislative issues ranging from research to practitioner 
          licensing. During the past few months, the Commission has been finalizing 
          an interim report. Dr. Groft explained that the Commission is working 
          to reach a consensus before making policy recommendations. Final recommendations 
          will be sent to the president in March 2002. A 25-page Interim Progress Report has been written and is posted on 
          WHCCAMP's site: http://whccamp.hhs.gov/meetings/index.cfm. Dr. Gordon described the wide range of written communication and testimony 
          that the Commission has received from all over the United States. Comments 
          have come from conventional physicians, medical acpuncturists, herbalists, 
          patients and many others. AAMA representatives, such as now-President 
          Marshall H. Sager, DO, DABMA, have emphasized the importance of medical 
          acupuncture as a CAM modality to the Commission. (See December 2000 
          AAMA Newsletter.) "It is clear that there is a mandate for more education about CAM 
          practices at every stage of training," said Dr. Gordon. He also 
          stressed the importance of understanding and communication among professionals 
          in CAM practice and th