
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 02:16:58 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Evidence on 2009’s ‘Super’ Supplements Home About Contact Media Kit Advertise Job Bank Writers' Guidelines Subscribe Current Issue Article Archive Digital Edition Newsletters Today's CPE Events Product Directories Gift Shop Heart Health Diabetes Allergies Nutrition Support Supplements Weight Control Green Health Food Safety Nutrition by Age Professional Growth December 2009 Issue Evidence on 2009’s  ‘Super’ Supplements By Jasmin Ilkay, MPH,  RD Today’s Dietitian Vol.  11 No. 12 P. 16 Walking through the supplement section of a health food  store, shoppers may think they can find a cure for just about anything that  ails them. With hundreds of choices before them, they may feel overwhelmed  trying to decide which supplements work and which are simply a new craze. Dietitians are often the first to field questions concerning  the efficacy and safety of dietary supplements, and therefore need to keep  current with the evidence. This article provides background information on a  variety of popular and emerging supplements currently on the market. Some have  been around for years, while others are new and awaiting further research. Kudzu and Metabolic  Syndrome Kudzu is generally regarded as a fast-growing vine and  botanical nuisance. However, according to a recent report of a preclinical  rodent study published in the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry ,  it may curb symptoms of metabolic syndrome, which is defined by three or more  of the following medical conditions: high blood pressure, high insulin levels,  excess fat around the waist, and high cholesterol. Human clinical trials are  required to confirm these finds. Researchers studied the effects of kudzu root extract in  female rats with high blood pressure that were prone to strokes and showed  symptoms of metabolic syndrome.1 The rats were divided into two groups. One  group received a standard diet, while the other group received additional  supplementation with kudzu root extract for two months. At the study’s conclusion, rats in the kudzu group gained  less weight and had significantly lower blood pressure, blood sugar levels, and  total cholesterol than the control group.1 The researchers concluded that a  dietary supplement of kudzu may decrease the risk of stroke and cardiovascular  disease in at-risk individuals. Based on this rodent study, scientists find kudzu’s  potential as a treatment for metabolic syndrome promising. However, kudzu  should not be recommended for people with metabolic syndrome until it has  undergone human trials to prove safety and effectiveness. I3C for Cancer  Prevention and Treatment Indole-3-carbinol (I3C) is a phytochemical found in cruciferous  vegetables such as broccoli, kale, and cauliflower. Research has indicated that  it may decrease cancer risk and slow cancer growth. To date, it has shown  promise in preventing or slowing breast, colon, prostate, and cervical cancers. I3C works by stimulating cytochrome P450 detoxification  enzymes in the gut and liver.2 Other studies have further demonstrated that I3C  can cause cell cycle arrest and apoptosis.3 These findings have motivated  scientists to investigate I3C’s potential as a cancer treatment. A majority of I3C research has focused on the  phytochemical’s ability to reduce estrogen-related cancer risk through altering  estrogen metabolism.2 For example, I3C has shown some effectiveness in  decreasing lesions associated with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), a  premalignant lesion associated with the development of cervical cancer. In a double-blind study, researchers randomly assigned 27  women with CIN to receive a placebo or 200 or 400 mg of oral I3C daily for 12  weeks. None of the subjects in the placebo group showed regression of their  premalignant lesions. However, 50% of those receiving 200 mg/day of I3C and  44.4% of those receiving 400 mg/day of I3C demonstrated complete regression of  the lesions at 12 weeks. The important findings of this study suggest that even  short-term supplementation with I3C may have the potential to prevent cervical  cancer.1 Another small study found that women taking 400 mg of I3C  for three months had a significant change in urinary 2-OH-estrone:estriol:estrogen  ratio toward increased 2-OH.2 A daily dose of 200 to 400 mg of I3C, which is available in  tablet form, has been used in estrogen-related cancer research. Up to 800  mg/day has been used in phase 1 chemoprevention studies.2 According to the Linus  Pauling Institute, these doses are well above usual dietary levels, which range  from 20 to 120 mg daily. Some research has indicated that I3C has tumor-promoting  capabilities. Individuals who choose to take I3C should do so only under the  supervision of a qualified physician. For the general population, daily  consumption of cruciferous vegetables is safe and recommended. Fewer Migraines With  Feverfew For thousands of years, Tanacetum parthenium, or feverfew,  has been believed to possess medicinal properties. The word feverfew is derived  from the Latin word febrifugia, which translates as “fever reducer.” In  addition to treating fevers, feverfew has been used to treat allergies, labor  difficulties, menstrual irregularities, infertility, and migraines. Of the  claims listed, feverfew’s ability to manage migraine headaches has shown  promise, according to research. The exact cause of migraines is unknown; however, they are  associated with blood vessel constriction. While there is no cure for migraine  headaches, there are medications available to prevent them or manage pain. Some  individuals have success handling their migraines with medication, while others  choose to identify and avoid triggers related to their onset (eg, stress,  alcohol, certain foods, lack of sleep). According to the University of Maryland Medical Center,  feverfew’s migraine-relieving activity is believed to be due to parthenolide,  an active compound that helps relieve smooth muscle spasms, thus preventing  blood vessel constriction in the brain. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial  investigated the efficacy of feverfew in migraine prophylaxis in three phases.  In the first phase, subjects were given 100 mg of feverfew daily for 60 days.  The second phase gave a placebo to one half of the subjects, while the  remainder continued to receive feverfew for 30 more days. Finally, in the third  phase, the subjects switched groups and continued for another 30 days. In 57  subjects, feverfew use led to a significant reduction in pain intensity  compared with the placebo; this trend was reversed after the switch of the  placebo.2 The study indicated that after placebo treatment, feverfew did indeed  improve migraine prophylaxis.2 The clinical trials have not reported any serious side  effects with short- or long-term use.2 However, feverfew has been shown to  decrease the effectiveness of cytochrome P450 substrates. Patients taking these  substrates who want to take feverfew should do so under the advice of a  qualified physician. Withdrawal symptoms, such as headaches, anxiety, and  insomnia, may also occur with sudden feverfew cessation. Açaí or Maqui? The Brazilian açaí berry has been one of the top-selling  antioxidants for the past couple of years. Açaí is touted as a “super”  antioxidant supplement that slows aging, aids in weight loss, decreases  cholesterol, and increases energy. In 2008, the first human research study published in the Journal  of Agricultural and Food Chemistry proved that antioxidants from açaí  pulp and juice are absorbed in the human body. Another study conducted at the  University of Florida showed that açaí berries triggered a self-destruct  response in up to 86% of leukemia cells tested. Açaí’s successful debut has since encouraged the  introduction of several other antioxidant-rich exotic fruits. Maqui is an  example of a newly introduced supplement that comes from a “super” berry grown  in the Patagonia region. Maqui supplement makers claim that it’s the next  “miracle” for weight loss and that it has more antioxidants than açaí. Maqui  berry products are also reported to have anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and  pain-relieving properties. Both of these super berries have strong antioxidant  properties; however, neither has been extensively researched for effectiveness  in aiding weight loss, increasing energy levels, or treating any other specific  conditions. Most of the guarantees promised by “super berry” supplement  manufacturers appear to be more effective marketing claims than actual outcomes  from taking the supplements. Summary In short, feverfew and I3C appear to be effective treatments  for migraines and cancer, respectively. Scientists have yet to confirm whether  kudzu can manage metabolic syndrome. Super berries such as açaí and maqui show  promise in terms of their antioxidant levels but require further evaluation. While this article touches on only a few dietary supplements  and herbs, there are a variety of valid Web sites where professionals can learn  about others: • ConsumerLab: www.consumerlab.com • Medline Plus: www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/herb_All.html • National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary  Supplements: http://dietary-supplements.info.nih.gov • Quackwatch: www.quackwatch.org • University of Maryland Medical Center: www.umm.edu/altmed — Jasmin Ilkay, MPH,  RD, is a professor in the human nutrition and food science department at  California State Polytechnic University in Pomona and a freelance writer  specializing in dietary supplements, child and family nutrition, and eating  disorders. References 1. Natural Standard. Kudzu for metabolic syndrome. September  2009. Available at: http://www.naturalstandard.com/newsletter/0909.pdf 2. Sarubin Fragakis A, Thomson C. The Health Professional’s Guide  to Popular Dietary Supplements , 3rd ed. American Dietetic Association;  2006. 3. Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.  Indole-3-carbinol. Last updated June 17, 2009. Available at:  http://www.mskcc.org/mskcc/html/69263.cfm. Accessed October 2009. industry news white papers jobs search Mini Babybel® Introduces Two New Flavors Trop 50 announces Lemonade flavors Precision Pro Digital Kitchen Scale Receives Rave Reviews as an Essential Tool for Healthy Living View all Industry News White Papers feature topic-specific essays from qualified industry professionals, adding even more of the unique insight and useful information that already attracts professionals to our magazine and website. Click here to view the White Papers » Loading Great Valley Publishing Company, Inc. 3801 Schuykill Road Spring City, PA 19475 Copyright © 2012. Publishers of Today's Dietitian. All rights reserved. Home About Contact Adverti