
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 12 Apr 2012 08:03:40 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Migraine and Feverfew / Alternative Medicine Monster Migraine and Feverfew Many people today will tell you that they suffer from migraine. Many people however don't really understand what a migraine is and they really just have a headache. I was surprised to learn that the headache part of a migraine is a symptom of a disease and that to take traditional headache cures eg paracetamol or aspirin will actually make the migraine worse. It also surprised me to realise that migraine can be life threatening. Although the benefits of feverfew are still being investigated in regard to migraine prevention and alleviation the findings are looking favourable so far. There is a lot of technical jargon involved but basically it can help with relieving spasms of the blood vessels in the brain and therefore if not prevent then lessen the pain of the attack. Feverfew also is beneficial in combating nausea and vomiting which are often associated with a migraine attack and can make you feel downright miserable in their own right. Dizziness can also be helped and feverfew can help you get a more restful sleep. It has few side effects and they appear to be very mild. All in all I think feverfew is worth investigating if you are a migraine sufferer, it might just do the trick. Lorna Mclaren has a website http://www.123-nutrition.com which has useful articles and information on where to buy alternative treatments. Alternative home 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 35 , 36 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 42 , 43 , 44 , 45 , 46 , 47 , 48 , 49 , 50 , 51 , 52 Hypnosis for Change Hypnosis offers a resolution for this dilemma.  I'm going to explore these myths and fears and in doing so reveal that hypnosis is the utilisation of a perfectly natural state for your benefit. The Honeybush Miracle Honeybush apparently also contains anti-oxidants;  those free-radical fighters which slow the ageing process of the body's cells.   Honeybush may also be brewed on the stove in teapot and left to simmer without becoming bitter. Test Your Indoor Air Quality! The fumes don't just disappear, but are                     present in the air and on surfaces until someone touches them or inhales them. 6)   Do you dry-clean some of your clothes?*  Dry cleaning uses many chemicals that outgas into your air. Top 3 Yogis Secrets for Health and Happiness For hundreds of years, the yogi's have been known to know the secrets for health, peace and happiness.  In this short, but informative article, I will briefly describe 3 of these secrets with you. YARROW TEA (Achillea Millefolium) To make Yarrow tea add two or three fresh or dried leaves per person to boiling water and leave to infuse for 5 minutes or so.  It is this 'side effect' that shows that Yarrow tea has some mild psychotropic effect. Green Tea for Health: Your Heart Will Thank You I began reading up on ways to lower my cholesterol and found a lot of information pointing to green tea as a remedy.  There are also green tea capsules you can take if you are not a fan of tea or do not have time to brew a few cups a day. An ADD Case Study: What Does it Mean to Fail? "For Josh, it was very easy to look at the situation and see failure.   Thanks for pointing it out because sometimes its hard to see the good stuff. Lavender Pure Essential Oil Lavender is also one of the main pure essential oils used in massages today.  Lavender pure essential oil can help treat skin conditions, such as acne, and rashes. Eating Healthy Myths Destroyed Refined carbs and sugar have no vitamins, minerals, or anything else that is needed to operate and run a healthy body2.  If you used wood that had holes in it and was not complete, your house would not be very functional. Plantar Warts Treatment - Is There A Natural Medication Which Gets Rid Of Plantar Warts? Plantar Warts are growths which occur on the bottom of your feet and are very common.  Plantar warts normally occur in c