Content-Type: text/html
Set-Cookie: Token=QTJfWCN8dx9wdxkGBgAEYQUIAgp5dXEZcA5KQDRTQSpeN0tHVCRSeC5NR0QIG0o1NDIZRDJCGVhdRW42RTYsVVBQRTZrUS9QMSsnVRYADFVqX1ZvLy0vJxVVXVhbJ18oJVFDSkZQV1ZcXFJVDgRVJ21UNzFHWkAxS1NaQTRTUFcILkJBNntsHzY0QRpBRkFvU1tCFTMzNlBXKlFCNRtWLlQwUVRUbVQqKxZfV21ZCi4naFFfKlpTUFpQKzNCNixQWFtSISddI1ImbCVHSB0XXTZHVl8tKSomSw5F; path=/
Cache-control: private

Keep Your Home Safe From Black Mold with Air Purifiers and Dehumidifiers Cart | My Account | Contact Us | Help Air Purifiers Shop by Brand View All Brands AirFree Airpura AirTamer Alen AllerAir Austin Air BlueAir Coway Honeywell Light Air Whirlpool Oreck Shop by Concern Test Results Allergy Asthma Dust Odor Smoke Microbes Mold Pet Odor/Dander Chemical UV/Ultraviolet Ionic Energy Star Wildfires HEPA Special Deals Specials & Package Deals Whole House Help Me Choose Top 10 Air Purifiers Brand Comparisons Air Purifier Test Results Air Purifier Reviews Comparison Chart Air Purifier Filters Shop for Replacement Air Filters View All Replacement Air Filters Airgle Airpura AirTamer Alen AllerAir Austin Air BlueAir Coway Honeywell Whirlpool Dehumidifiers Shop for Dehumidifiers View All Dehumidifiers Alen Comfort-Aire Danby DeLonghi Sunpentown Home Air Filters Shop by Needs Home Filters by Alen Healthy Home Allergy Plus Asthma & Respiratory Sensitivity HVAC Filters Shop by Rating Gold Merv 11 5" Gold Merv 11 1" Platinum Merv 13 1" Platinum Merv 13 5" Silver Merv 8 1" Silver Merv 8 5" Envirosept Learning Center Get Informed Now! Top 10 Air Purifiers Brand Comparisons Air Purifier Test Results Air Purifier Reviews Comparison Chart Allergy Asthma Bacteria and Flu Viruses Chemical Dehumidifiers Dust Flooding Ion Producers Mold Odor Pets Smoke Home Filters For Your Health HEPA Customer Support Need Help? Help Customer Service Returns Contact Us Coupons Learning Center Air Purifier Reviews Air Purifier Test Results Top 10 Air Purifiers Brand Comparisons Allergy Asthma Bacteria and Flu Viruses Chemical Dust Dehumidifiers Flooding Ion Producers Mold Odor Pets Smoke Home Filters For Your Health HEPA Flooding/Hurricane damage Mold Allergies Sick Building Syndrome Flood Damage Test Results Shop Air Purifiers for Mold Air Purifier Reviews Flooding/Hurricane Damage It is amazing how Mother Nature can be so destructive and create a hurricane that causes so much damage and death.  Flooding is only the beginning of the damage that hurricanes can cause. Flooding brings with it the dangers of black mold . The flooding provides a paradise for black mold spores to grow uncontrollably. A mold outbreak is almost certain because there is no way to keep these black mold health issues from harming anyone who is surrounded by these floods. People who have minor damage to their homes still have a great chance of experiencing the adverse health effects of mold spores. Within an area that has suffered a mold spore outbreak, the mold spores will attach to passers-by via their clothing or shoes, and carry the spores into areas that are currently being cleaned. There are many different mold types, but the worst types of molds are toxic molds. Some of the health effects and symptoms of toxic black molds are itchy skin, rashes and coughing all the way to stomach cramps, fatigue, memory loss, and upper respiratory problems. The health issues associated with black mold should be taken very seriously. In 7 out of 10 incidents, black mold health issues become permanent. One of the best ways to keep your home safe from black mold health effects is to have mold cleaners, dehumidifiers and air purifiers available and ready as both a preventative and precautionary measures. Using these mold elimination cleaners and devices will prevent the proliferation of black molds and their adverse health effects. Shop Air Purifiers for Mold Air Purifier Reviews Mold Allergies Sick Building Syndrome Flooding/Hurricane damage Test Results Customer Picks Paralda - $499.00 The Alen Paralda Air Purifier has an intelligent, award-winning design that complements even the most discerning decor, all while offering greater efficiency and performance than other tower units on the market. Coverage Area : 400 sq ft Particles Removed : 99 % Noise Level : 60 dBA Alen A350 - $399.00 Designed for allergy and asthma sufferers, the powerful and highly rated Alen A350 Air Purifier removes allergens and harmful airborne pollutants-the perfect indoor air solution. Coverage Area : 800 sq ft Particles Removed : 99 % Noise Level : 65 dBA Alen T300 - $299.00 With its sleek design, the Alen T300 air purifier tower will effectively eliminate airborne elements providing you with the relief that you need. Moreover, the Alen T300 is a vital tool in your battle against air pollutants. Coverage Area : 300 sq ft Particles Removed : 93 % Noise Level : 60 dBA AllerAir 5000 Exec - $599.98 The AllerAir 5000 Exec air purifier features a 3-stage filtration system which uses 18 lbs of activated MAC-B™ carbon for odor removal and a HEPA filter to eliminate airborne particles. Coverage Area : 1500 sq ft Particles Removed : 99 % Noise Level : 63 dBA BlueAir-203 - $299.95 The Blueair 203 air purifier (Previously BlueAir 201) delivers more clean air at a faster rate with less noise than any other air purifier on the market. Coverage Area : 175 sq ft Particles Removed : 99 % Noise Level : 36 dBA AustinAir Allergy Machine - $574.99 The Austin Allergy Machine is designed to clean rooms of allergens, odors and smoke(up to 1,500 sq feet).  Utilizes a military carbon cloth (originally developed for mustard gas) so it is lighter than the HealthMate. Coverage Area : 1500 sq ft Particles Removed : 80 % Noise Level : 66 dBA Testimonials "Placing my order with this company was simple and fast. The company answered all my questions about the product I ordered and made it easier for me to decide which brand to purchase." cwake93 More Customer Stories PRODUCTS Air Purifiers Filters Dehumidifiers Humidifiers Test Kits and Monitors Home Filters Commercial SUPPORT Help Customer Service Returns Contact Us My Account Cart ABOUT US Why Buy About Us Privacy Policy Copyright © 2002-2012 Ai