<http://www.howtogetrid.org/?p=2516>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

How to Get Rid of Cramps News Feed Comments Home Sitemap Contact-Us Browse > Home / Health / How to Get Rid of Cramps How to Get Rid of Cramps September 29, 2011 by admin Filed under Health Leave a Comment It does matter what age or sex you are, some time in your lifetime you are bound to get cramps. Whether these cramps are menstrual cramps, muscle cramps, or cramps due to some sort of injury. Cramps are unpleasant and can be very painful. Menstrual cramps are caused by the uterus contracting. Muscle cramps can be caused by a many number of things, including injury related cramps. Cramps can be uncomfortable to downright painful. There are easy ways to remedy this problem in the comfort of your own home that will not cost an arm and a leg. Ways To Treat Cramps Stretch and massage your muscles. You can try massaging a muscle cramp to relieve some of the pain. Stretching the muscle might also help the pain subside. Cramps in the legs can easily be relieved by standing or walking. For more serious cramps, a fifteen minutes massage to the affected area should do the trick. Massaging your muscles can release the tension in your muscles that may be causing the cramping. Hot or cold compress. Applying hot and cold compresses to the area that is causing you pain might help relieve the cramps you are experiencing. Alternating between hot and cold may help the pain go away more quickly. If you are suffering from an injury related cramp, a cold compress can reduce the swelling while a hot compress can reduce the pain. Drink fluids to replenish electrolytes. If you cramps are caused by dehydration, be sure to drink plenty of water and other fluids to refresh and replenish your body. Be sure that you are drinking clear liquids like water or drinks that do not contain a lot of sugar. Sugary drinks do not replenish electrolytes. Eat a balanced diet . Some muscle cramps are due to your body lacking important vitamins and minerals like potassium and magnesium. If your body is lacking calcium, you might also suffer from cramps. Bananas, milk, beans and spinach all can help fuel your body with these important nutrients to avoid cramps in the future. Relieving Menstrual Cramps Tea and Water . Drink plenty of clear liquids to keep your body hydrated and fueled. Over the counter pain relievers . Over the counter pain medication can relieve more than your pain. They also can relieve other menstrual symptoms like fatigue and bloating as well. Exercise. Exercising can help raise your endorphins. These are natural pain relievers released in the body. Exercising can also help with other menstrual symptoms like bloating, fatigue, and also help put you in a better mood. Hot compress . Applying a hot compress to your pelvic area can help ease the pain of your cramps. There are many things that you can do to avoid the pain of some cramps. Eating right can be a great preventative method to avoid future cramps. Following these simple methods can help you relieve your pain right away. Whether you are suffering from menstrual cramps or a sports related injury that is causing you cramping, these methods should do the trick. GD Star Rating a WordPress rating system GD Star Rating a WordPress rating system Related posts: How to Get Rid of Muscle Cramps Contractions of muscles can cause painful sensations, called cramps. While... How to Get Rid of Leg Cramps Leg cramps are one of the worst things in the... How to Get Rid of Stomach Cramps Stomach cramps occur for a variety of reasons, one of... Tags: Speak Your Mind Tell us what you're thinking... and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar ! Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website CAPTCHA Code * Recent Posts How to Get Rid of Scuff Marks How to Get Rid of Rust Stains How to Get Rid of Red Wine Stains How to Get Rid of Pen Ink Stains How to Get Rid of Nail Polish Stains HS : The best thing to get over fear of snakes is to pet one. Don’t pet or get near the poisonous ones though.... sophia : Unfortunately our neighbors own their house. I am starting to see why the lady left her house she built and... sunil shrestha : about 8 days ago i have extreme back pain and vomiting but after doing video xray and IVA xray it was... Christopher : i think wall-gecko give bad dreams when they are around you when sleeping. I also think they give very... liliana : It is actually a great and helpful piece of info. I’m glad that you simply shared this useful... Related Posts Related posts: How to Get Rid of Muscle Cramps Contractions of muscles can cause painful sensations, called cramps. While... How to Get Rid of Leg Cramps Leg cramps are one of the worst things in the... How to Get Rid of Stomach Cramps Stomach cramps occur for a variety of reasons, one of... Categories Beauty Computer Problems Finance Floors Health Household Living Outdoor Personal Pest Control Stain Removal Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 May 2009 Blogroll Admin 