Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 11:27:46 GMT

Rheumatoid arthritis Home For doctors Rheumatology Rheumatoid 
arthritis Management 
	of RA - summary of NICE guidance (2009) Recent 
	advances in the management of rheumatoid arthritis (2010) Diagnosis 
	and management of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (2010) Biologicals 
	for rheumatoid arthritis (2011) Presentation Differential diagnosis Assessment DAS28 disease activity score Management Monitoring Management of Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis is an 'inflammatory' arthritis. The
synovium becomes much thicker and changes its character such that
the inflammatory cells produce cytokines and metabloproteinases
which cause cartilage destruction and secondary joint damage.
Joints affected by rheumatoid arthritis often become unstable
causing deformities, for example of the hand. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is the most common cause of
inflammatory joint disease and has a prevalence of 1-2%
world-wide.1 It can present in a variety of ways and the
diagnosis may not be clear at the initial presentation.
Investigations performed early in the disease may be negative and
misleading. Recent evidence suggests that the early use of
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in the management
of patients with RA slows down the progress of the disease and so
it is important to identify patients early. It commonly affects younger women aged 20 to 50 years. The
diagnosis of RA is not always easy to make. However, if a patient
is suspected to have the condition he or she should, in most
cases, be considered for treatment to slow down the progression
of the disease. This often requires an urgent referral to a
rheumatologist. Unfortunately, rheumatology waiting times are
notoriously long. Some departments have a policy of fast-tracking
patients with evidence of recent diagnosis of RA so that they are
seen quickly. This should reduce the morbidity associated with
this potentially disabling disease. Presentation Rheumatoid arthritis is best thought of as a systemic disease
as there are a number of extra-articular features. However,
patients will present with painful stiff joints. Patients will
usually complain of painful, tender, swollen joints that are
stiff in the morning. They may complain that it takes time for
them to get going in the morning, the stiffness easing as
activity increases. Differential diagnosis It is helpful to ask oneself a series of questions to make the
diagnosis. Is this an inflammatory or a mechanical pain? Inflammatory arthritis usually has morning stiffness of
        more than half an hour. The patient may be systemically
        unwell, complaining of tiredness and lethargy. Patients
        with rheumatoid arthritis will usually have involvement
        of the joints, specifically the small joints. This is
        usually symmetrical and involves pain, stiffness and
        joint swelling or synovitis. Is there articular pain and swelling or
        periarticular pain and stiffness? (Patients with rheumatoid arthritis may occasionally
        present with a polymyalgic spectrum of symptoms) -
        possible differential diagnoses of more widespread pain
        and stiffness include fibromyalgia, polymyalgia,
        inflammatory muscle disease, inflammatory connective
        tissue disorders such as SLE and Sjogren's syndrome. Is the pattern of joint symptoms continuous or
        intermittent? If intermittent consider gout, pseudogout or crystal
        arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis may sometimes have a
        palindromic or intermittent pattern). Is the joint involvement of recent onset? If of recent onset consider a post-infective arthritis,
        either a reactive arthritis or a post streptococcal or
        post viral arthritis. Is there asymmetrical joint involvement? If there is asymmetrical joint involvement consider other
        diseases associated with an inflammatory arthritis, e.g.
        psoriasis, colitis, ankylosing spondylitis The American College of Rheumatology criteria for the
diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis are that four of seven of the
following criteria must be present: Morning stiffness in and around joints, lasting more than
        1 hour. Arthritis of three or more joint areas involved
        simultaneously. Arthritis of at least one area in a wrist, metacarpal or
        proximal interphalangeal joint. Symetrical arthritis involving the same joint areas. Rheumatoid nodules. Positive serum rheumatoid factor. Radiological changes typical of RA on hand and wrist
        x-rays. Guidelines that are used for a group of patients are never
absolutely reliable for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis in
the individual patient. When considering rheumatoid arthritis useful diagnostic tests
include: Raised acute phase reactants, e.g. ESR, CRP Positive rheumatoid factor (false positive rate of approximately 4%,
        especially at the low titres. Approximately 20% of
        patients with rheumatoid arthritis have a negative
        rheumatoid factor). X-rays - erosions are often seen first at the MTP joints.
        Finding of erosions in x-rays of the hands and feet is
        significant. Assessment The assessment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis requires
"a basket" of measures. We do not have one figure that
gives a global impression of disease activity and prognosis. The
most accepted outcome measures used in clinical trials are
derived from OMERACT 1 Conference (J Rheumatol 1994 21
(supplement 41) 86-9) . These include the American College of
Rheumatology Core Outcome measures. Pain - visual analogue scale Function - Health Assessment Questionnaire Number of tender joints - Mannekin Number of swollen joints - Mannekin Patients global assessment - visual analogue scale Physicians global assessment -visual analogue scale. CRP or ESR Improvement can be documented and an ACR 20% improvement
incorporates 20% of tender and swollen joints and 3 of the 5
remaining core outcome measures. Outcome measures at 50%
improvement can be similarly estimated. A minimum improvement on
a DMARD would be 20% and an acceptable improvement may be 50%.
There are separate criteria for remission, which is unfortunately
uncommon. DAS28 disease activity score The DAS28 provides you with a number on a scale from 0 to 10 indicating the 
	current activity of the rheumatoid arthritis of your patient. A DAS28 above 
	5.1 means high disease activity whereas a DAS28 below 3.2 indicates low 
	disease activity. Remission is achieved by a DAS28 lower than 2.6 
	(comparable to the ARA remission criteria). DAS28 disease activity score - information The number of swollen joints should be assessed using 28-joint counts (tender28) The number of tender joints should be assessed using 28-joint counts (swollen28). The ESR/CRP should be measured The patients general health (GH) or global disease activity measured 
		on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) of 100 mm (both are useable for this purpose) must be 
		obtained. ie 0-100 DAS28 calculator Management Principles of Management In patients with early arthritis it is important
                to make a diagnosis as soon as possible.
                Sometimes it is not possible to make a diagnosis
                at one visit. There should be continuing
                synovitis over 6 weeks. Review tests and think
                again at 6 weeks. When the diagnosis has been made a standardised
                initial assessment is needed to determine the
                patient's disease severity and whether or not
                they need therapy with a DMARD. A DMARD should be
                used When there is continuing inflammatory
                        disease When there is systemic features When there is laboratory evidence of
                        active disease eg ESR, CRP Before the patient has develpoed erosions
                        within their joints. The goal of treatment should be disease
                remission; this is the complete cessation of
                inflammatory synovitis and general ill health
                with no swollen or tender joints, no joint pain,
                no stiffness and no malaise. However, this is
                rarely achieved. More realistic goals are the
                control of significant inflammatory synovitis,
                improvement of functional impairment and
                reduction of joint damage. The available evidence
                suggests that current therapy reduces synovitis
                and improves function but has limited effects in
                reducing radiological damage. Patients need regular follow-up: this should be
                shared between family doctors and rheumatologist
                with appropriate protocols. When to refer Rheumatology emergencies These require referral within one to 2
                        days by direct contact with a
                        rheumatology department. In some cases an
                        orthopaedic department or general medical
                        admission unit may be appropriate for
                        initial assessment . Septic arthritis - an
                                acute exacerbation, usually
                                affecting one joint, which is out
                                of proporation to general
                                rheumatology disease. The index
                                of suspicion should be low, early
                                aspiration of the joint is
                                essential. The BSR guidelines
                                recommend blood culture as well
                                as synovial fluid culture.
                                Patients may be systemically
                                unwell, but this may not always
                                be the case, notably if the
                                patients are taking continued
                                doses of steroids. Cervical myelopathy -
                                often an insidious progression,
                                causing poor function. It may be
                                difficult to distinguish from an
                                exacerbation of rheumatoid
                                arthritis. Cervical myelopathy is
                                often seen in patients with
                                severe long standing disease.
                                Neurological examination may
                                often be difficult because of
                                joint deformities. Patients
                                complain of weakness and
                                numbness, often in a glove and
                                stocking distribution and a story
                                of neck pain a common form of
                                presentation. Referrals should be
                                to a rheumatology department,
                                neurosurgery department or
                                general medical department for
                                initial assessment. Urgent referrals These need to be made within about a
                        week. They include systemic extra
                        articular complications of disease such
                        as: Vasculitis Mono-neuritis multiplex Scleromalacia perforam Scleritis Complications of disease and
                        drugs This may require emergency or urgent
                        referral, depending on the nature of the
                        condition, include: Gastrointestinal bleed Thrombocytopoenia/neutropoenia/pancytopoenia Anaemia Proteinuria Mouth ulcers Dyspnoea Hepatitis Rashes Muscle weakness Renal failure - chronic or acute Problems with Diagnosis The diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis can
                        sometimes be difficult to make and
                        sometimes requires time, as discussed
                        above. If the General Practitioner is in
                        doubt of the given diagnosis and the
                        appropriateness of DMARD therapy, then
                        referral to a rheumatologist may be
                        useful. Problems with Management If patients are not responding to
                        treatment, or have particular problems
                        the General Practitioner is not confident
                        to manage, then referral to a
                        rheumatology department is appropriate.
                        General Practitioners may only have very
                        few patients taking any particular DMARD,
                        and if they are not confident in the
                        indications, management or monitoring of
                        these drugs in practice, then referral
                        and shared care may be appropriate. Management of established rheumatoid arthritis Drugs used in management include None For some patients with inactive disease
                        by clinical and laboratory means it may
                        be appropriate for them to take no
                        medication. Analgesics Commonly used and are a useful group of
                        drugs in patients with rheumatoid
                        arthritis. They can be taken regularly
                        for long-term pain. These can be added to
                        more specific anti inflammatory
                        medication. They may be useful for pain
                        disturbing sleep at night. Drugs to
                        consider include paracetamol or codeine
                        analogues. For pain at night
                        Amitriptyline in low doses may be
                        helpful. Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs These are useful for both analgesic and
                        anti-inflammatory affect. Most patients
                        will have some benefit from a drug such
                        as Ibuprofen, Diclofenac or Naproxen. The
                        drugs should always be taken with food.
                        Potential side effects of these NSAID
                        medications include the development of
                        stomach and duodenal ulcers, although
                        there are some medications designed to
                        reduce this risk. It is important to
                        inform patients of potential side effects
                        so that they can report them and have
                        their medication reduced or stopped so
                        that they are at less risk of
                        gastrointestinal haemorrhage. If patients
                        are not able to tolerate NSAIDs because
                        of gastrointestinal side effects,
                        consider appropriate treatment of the
                        gastrointestinal pathology using
                        analgesics alone, or using an
                        anti-inflammatory drug which may be less
                        likely to cause upper GI side effects
                        e.g. Nabumetone, Etodolac, Aceclofenac.
                        For those whose quality of life is poor
                        without NSAID but at risk of GI upset
                        Misoprostol or a PPI should be
                        considered. Anti-inflammatory drugs may
                        also cause CNS side effects, rashes and,
                        rarely in the elderly, acute renal
                        failure. Specific Cox 2 Inhibitors These have recently been introduced and
                        include Rofecoxib. DMARD It is now recognised that both functional
                        and irreversible joint damage commonly
                        occur within the first 2 years of the
                        disease and contribute substantially to
                        long-term disability. DMARDs are thought
                        to interfere with the release of
                        cytokines by activated T lymphocytes and
                        so suppress the inflammatory disease
                        process. These drugs have been shown to
                        reduce the rate of erosive change in
                        patients with RA. They are therefore
                        being used at an earlier stage in the
                        disease than in the past so as to impede
                        its early progress. Recent guidelines
                        from the American College of Rheumatology
                        recommend that DMARD therapy should not
                        be delayed beyond 3 months for any
                        patient with an established diagnosis who
                        in spite of adequate treatment with
                        NSAIDs has ongoing signs of active
                        disease. In addition, there is evidence
                        that consistent use of DMARDs may reduce
                        long-term disability by 30%. However, it
                        is not possible to predict which patient
                        will respond to which DMARD,
                        Sulfasalazine or Methotrexate appear to
                        be good first choices on current
                        evidence. At present they are usually used singly. A second
                        agent may be added. A combination of
                        drugs may be used earlier in the illness.
                        These drugs are very effective but have
                        some serious side effects in some people.
                        They have a significant lag of 2 to 6
                        months before we may see benefit, and if
                        patients have side effects, the side
                        effects may persist or deteriorate for
                        this period after the drug has been
                        stopped. They must be closely monitored. Sulfasalazine Methotrexate is now well established in the
                                treatment of rheumatoid
                                arthritis. More patients stay on
                                Methotrexate for longer periods
                                than other drugs of this group. Sodium Aurothiomalate or IM gold injections are still effective in
                                controlling disease for many
                                people. Ciclosporin is usually limited by
                                effect on renal function, which
                                may be irreversible. Penicillamine appears to be less effective than
                                some other drugs of this group.
                                Azathioprine is also used less. Hydroxychloroquine
                                Sulphate is now usually
                                used either in combination with
                                other drugs such as Methotrexate,
                                or for patients with other auto
                                immune connective tissue
                                disorders. Leflunomide is
                                expected in the near future as a
                                similar drug in this group, which
                                may be used in combination with
                                Methotrexate. Combinations :
                                sometimes a second drug is added
                                for patients whose disease is
                                partially controlled with one
                                drug. Steroids : there
                                is controversy regarding the use
                                of low dose steroids in patients
                                with early disease. There is
                                evidence that they do reduce the
                                rate of erosions, but there is
                                concern concerning their
                                long-term side effects (the
                                difficulty in weaning patients
                                off short-term courses of
                                prednisolone; the long-term
                                side-effects, eg osteoporosis;
                                the instance of side effects is
                                less if patients are taking less
                                than 7.5mg per day). Steroids
                                have a rapid effect on the
                                management of patients with
                                rheumatoid arthritis and may be
                                used to cover an acute flare to
                                manage the patient for an
                                important social occasion or to
                                improve the patient's quality of
                                life whilst we are awaiting for a
                                DMARD to be effective. In the
                                latter use, 80 to 120 mg of
                                Depo-Medrone IM will often have
                                an anti-inflammatory effect for
                                approximately 6 weeks.
                                Intra-articular injections of
                                steroid are useful to control
                                inflammation that predominantly
                                affects one or 2 joints, most
                                often the knee and shoulder. Other therapies :
                                anti TNF receptor antibodies are
                                expected in the near future.
                                These are parenteral and
                                expensive, but appear to have a
                                rapid effect on symptoms,
                                although long term effects are
                                not yet established. Other management actions necessary, including
                lifestyle and referral to other agencies. Multidisciplinary care The successful management of patients with RA
                relies on liaison between professionals of
                different disciplines. A holistic approach to the
                patient's condition is desirable. Much of this
                liaison will occur at GP level but rheumatology
                input may be involved. Liaison between primary
                and secondary care is important. Ready access to
                occupational therapy, chiropody and orthotics
                reduces the time spent on, and the necessity for
                secondary care consultations. Advice, education Rheumatoid Arthritis responds well to
                        intervention. Moreover studies by Lorig
                        and her colleagues suggest that increased
                        patient involvement in the management of
                        the disease, through improved education,
                        self-management programmes and support
                        networks has a positive effect on
                        outcomes. The public needs to know how to
                        stay healthy in order to reduce, where
                        possible, the risk of developing disease.
                        This may, include adopting a healthier
                        lifestyle through better diet and
                        exercise. The public also needs to know
                        how to access help when symptoms of
                        arthritis develop. Physiotherapy Physical measures such as exercise and
                        physiotherapy are essential to maintain
                        the range of movement in joints and to
                        keep muscles as strong as possible. A
                        regular exercise programme designed to
                        suit the patient is an essential aspect
                        of pain management and will enhance
                        feelings of well being. Occupational Therapy Occupational therapy can provide advice
                        about joint protection although the
                        evidence for the long-term effect is
                        lacking. Occupational therapy is
                        important as it can help the environment
                        become more 'user-friendly'. In other
                        words, aids can be obtained to help turn
                        on taps, open doors and put on clothing. Social Services The Care Management system is appropriate
                        for people with advanced disabling
                        disease. There may be the need to improve
                        the patient's environment with the
                        installation of stair lifts, bath aids Chiropody Orthotist Appropriate, comfortable, supportive
                        footwear (if carefully made) can
                        eliminate pain when walking. Surgery Hip replacement and knee replacement
                        surgery has been one of the major
                        advances in the past 15 years for people
                        with arthritis. These operations are now
                        performed quickly, with short periods of
                        hospitalisation. While all operations can
                        have complications, problems are becoming
                        less common. Patients with multiple joint
                        problems will benefit from the opinion of
                        an orthopaedic surgeon interested in
                        rheumatoid arthritis. The aims of surgery
                        are primarily to relieve pain and
                        secondary to restore function.
                        Indications for urgent treatment are
                        septic arthitis and compression of nerves
                        and spinal cord. Replacement arthroplasty Excision arthroplasty Arthrodesis (less common) e.g.
                                ankle, pip joints Cervical fusion for subluxation
                                (rare) Synovectomy in joints not damaged
                                to prevent disease (no evidence
                                yet). Ruptured tendons Psychology The development of arthritis can cause
                        depression. Patients may mourn for their
                        loss of health and become frustrated when
                        performing tasks that were easy before.
                        The lethargy and tiredness common in
                        severe arthritis can make any depression
                        worse. If the patient can come to terms
                        with these feelings of depression, the
                        arthritis often becomes easier to manage
                        and certainly easier to live with. To
                        overcome negative feelings ask the
                        patient to try and develop: a positive attitude an exercise programme
                                (particularly swimming). Get the
                                patient to start with an exercise
                                they enjoy. a change of lifestyle, including
                                a sensible diet to control
                                weight, reducing the load on
                                damaged joints. a pain management plan that will
                                help the patient learn how to
                                manage pain and stress in a
                                positive way Alternatives When it comes to the treatment of
                        rheumatoid arthritis, everyone seems to
                        have a pet cure. These cures vary from
                        reflexology, naturopathy, homeopathy and
                        dietary restrictions to massage and
                        chiropractic. Virtually all patients who
                        develop arthritis will try one or more of
                        these remedies looking for a miracle
                        cure. Miracle cures are rare indeed and
                        there is very little scientific evidence
                        to back these forms of therapy. However,
                        it is also fair to say that in the
                        majority of cases these forms of therapy
                        are not harmful. A good nutritious diet,
                        regular massage and some vitamin
                        supplements may well make you feel better
                        even if they rarely cure arthritis. Monitoring Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) playa key role
in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. All are potentially
toxic and regular monitoring for toxicology is necessary. Azathioprine Ciclosporin IM gold Oral gold Methotrexate Penicillamine Sulfasalazine Brad Cheek: last u