<http://www.hqbk.com/blog/?p=56>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Spinal Decompression - Effective Treatment of Neck and Back Pain | HQBK Blog Home | About HealthQuest | Professional Staff | Specials/Events | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Blogs Query Oct 07 Spinal Decompression – Effective Treatment of Neck and Back Pain This entry is filed under Spinal decompression , Spinal decompression therapy . Spinal decompression is a drug-free treatment available for treating a wide array of back disorders. If you are tired of surgical processes, this technique can provide you with complete relief. The treatment requires no complicated or risky surgical process and is totally safe. The method was developed from years of research and is ideal for long term relief from pain. Until recently, patients with back pain were usually given drugs with possible side-effects, referred to physical therapists, or sent for surgery. The structure of our back is comprised of spinal bones (vertebrae), their joints, discs between vertebras, and the muscles and ligaments which bind all the parts together. The discs which act as a cushion between the vertebrae can get damaged and the gelatinous material inside can leak, leading to herniated disc which is the cause of pain. These types of back pains can be treated with modern decompression techniques including Decompression Therapy System (DTS), VAX-D, ABS systems, DRX-3000, DRX9000, and the Accu-Spina System. Spinal compression is the common cause for neck and back pain. Spinal decompression therapy causes the expansion of disc herniations, which are the cause for the pressure exerted on nearby spinal nerve roots. Decompression technique works by taking away pressure from damaged discs so that the bulging will shrink back to its original size and thus protect the surrounding discs from getting damaged. The treatment has also proved to be successful in treating spinal stenosis, sciatica, pinched nerve, facet syndrome, low back disc bulge, golf related pain, and degenerative disc disease. The spinal decompression treatment normally takes about 6-8 weeks. It can be followed by neuromuscular, cardiovascular and diet therapy for even greater results. All treatment methods are affordable and are designed to alleviate all types of back pain. The treatment procedure is effective and results can be seen within the initial weeks of the treatment. Tweet Posted by admin Tags: spinal decompression , spinal decompression brooklyn , spinal decompression new york city , spinal decompression nyc , spinal decompression therapy Leave a Reply Name * Mail (will not be published) * Website Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 August 2008 Recent Posts Neck Pain Treatment Physical Therapy Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Does Physical Therapy Exercises Help Relieve Lower Back Pain? How Rehabilitation Services Can Reduce Disability When Do People Need Physical Therapy? Subscribe RSS Feed Atom Feed Add to Google My Yahoo Twitter Facebook Patient Forms | Medical Consultation | Physical Examination | Chiropractic Manipulation | Rehabilitation Services | Physical Therapy | Neurology | MRI and Diagnostics | Spinal Decompression | Smoking Cessation | Orthopedics | Pain Management | Weight Loss Program | Slip Fall Prevention | Professional Staff | Site Map Website design by Managed Outsource Solutions Medical Consultation Physical Examination Chiropractic Manipulation Rehabilitation Services Physical Therapy MRI & Diagnostics Spinal Decompression Smoking Cessation Orthopedics Pain Managemen