
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 02:16:18 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://worldpneumoniaday.org/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Resources | World Pneumonia Day Learn Give Act Connect Blog Resources 2011 Progress Report News For Media Stories of Pneumonia About the Coalition About Pneumonia Events Resources Download the PDF fact sheets and watch the videos below. Pneumonia Facts: The World Pneumonia is a deadly disease, especially for children in developing countries. Read more... Pneumonia: The Disease Includes information about what causes pneumonia, who is most at-risk, and methods of diagnosing and preventing it. Read more Pneumonia: The Toll Includes statistics about deaths caused by pneumonia, which claims more than 1.5 million children every year — or one child every 20 seconds. Read more. Pneumonia: The Solution Includes facts about how to prevent and treat pneumonia. The most serious cases of pneumonia usually require antibiotics, which cost less than $1 per dose. Read more. Pneumonia: Protect Methods to protect against pneumonia include breastfeeding, adequate nutrition, handwashing and reducing low birth weights and indoor air pollution. Read more. Pneumonia: Prevent Methods for prevent pneumonia include vaccines for pneumonia itself and diseases such as measles and pertussis, and zinc supplementation. Read more. Pneumonia: Treat When pneumonia strikes, treatment is key. Includes information about treatment methods such as case management, diagnosis techniques, antibiotics and oxygen therapy. Read more. Pneumonia Facts: Nigeria There are an estimated 56 million episodes of lung infections among Nigerian children every year. This fact sheet includes information about  treatment and prevention efforts in Nigeria. Read more. World Pneumonia Day logos Download a .zip file of different sized World Pneumonia Day logos for your event. Download. Global Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Pneumonia The Global Action Plan for the prevention and control of Pneumonia (GAPP) includes recommendations on what needs to be done, specific goals and targets, and estimates of what it will cost and how many lives will be saved. Its aim is to increase awareness of pneumonia as a major cause of child deaths, and it calls on global and national policy-makers, donor agencies and civil society to take immediate action to implement the plan. Read more. World Pneumonia Day Events 2009 report Despite advances in prevention with new vaccines and treatment with effective, low-cost antibiotics, pneumonia continues to claim the lives of countless children throughout the developing world.  The first annual World Pneumonia Day in 2009 provided an opportunity for countries most affected by pneumonia to engage in key advocacy efforts with policymakers and the public.  WPD efforts simultaneously sought to increase awareness in donor countries such as the United States, United Kingdom and the European Parliament. Read more. 2010 World Pneumonia Day Annual Report Discover and learn about the latest efforts by the Global Goalition to fight childhood pneumonia in the newly released 2010 Annual World Pneumonia Day Report! Read more... World Pneumonia Day Small Grants Report Learn more about what leaders around the world are doing with small grants to support World Pneumonia Day 2010! Read more... Learn More From Pneumonia and Pneumococcal Vaccine Experts Dr. Orin Levine On World Pneumonia Day and the importance of raising awareness: On the promise of new vaccines in Kenya and beyond: Dr. Daniel Feiken On the causes of pneumonia and the toll of the disease: Dr. Cynthia Whitney On the impact of the pneumococcal vaccines and importance of vaccination: Home | Co