
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 18:35:36 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » Treating Morning Sickness With Acupuncture Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s Treating Morning Sickness With Acupuncture November 18th, 2011 There are currently no identified safe and effective treatments for morning sickness, a term used to describe the feelings of nausea and vomiting in pregnant women. Symptoms affect more than half of all women in the early stages of pregnancy. Acupuncture treatment for morning sickness has no adverse side effects and women typically benefit from the mood elevating effect of acupuncture. Due to concerns that pharmaceutical medicines may damage their unborn children, women are increasingly turning to non-drug treatments, including acupuncture and other complementary and alternative therapies, to treat these symptoms. Current recommendations for prevention and treatment of morning sickness include taking Vitamin B6 and ginger as nonpharmacologic options. In addition to these options, women who choose to receive acupuncture during pregnancy experience a significant decrease in nausea severity. Acupuncture can treat many pregnancy-related ailments, including: · Insomnia, low energy. · Back pain. · Heartburn. · Breech presentation. Acupuncture aids in maintaining balance during pregnancy and can treat many of the common complaints of pregnancy. Acupuncture can prepare the body for labor and delivery, and can aid in labor induction. Women who receive acupuncture often experience shorter labor. To reduce feelings of nausea, your acupuncture physician may recommend eating small meals often, eliminating foods that may increase nausea, drinking small amounts of fluids frequently to prevent dehydration, getting plenty of rest, and regular exercise. For information about acupuncture for health and wellness during pregnancy call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician, at (305) 595-9500. Acupuncture | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr