
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 12 Apr 2012 03:37:24 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Preventing Leg Cramps HOME REMEDIES Natural Cures for Common Illness Add Remedy Home | Ask 
      a Question | Home 
      Remedies | Herbal 
      Remedies | Weight Loss | Yoga | Health 
      Tips | Beauty Tips | Articles | Blog Home Remedies » Answers » Preventing Leg Cramps Preventing Leg Cramps Stretching regularly to relax muscles and prevent cramps Exercising regularly— but not over exerting oneself, as this can cause leg cramps Drinking plenty of water during and after exercise, as dehydration can prompt leg cramps Increasing your intake of calcium, magnesium, and vitamin E supplements Placing a *heat pack on the sore muscle* to help relieve the pain Using massage therapy or acupuncture Don’t forget to Subscribe to our RSS-feed and follow us on Twitter for recent updates. Tags: Leg Cramps, Leg Cramps causes preventions Still if you don't find an answer? Please don't hesitate to ask a question and get an answer from an expert on what you are looking for! Recent Health Answers Herbs to increase breast milk Learn the secrets of herbs that increase breast milk production or supply. As most of the people not aware of these herbs. Even if they know these Foods to increase breast milk Lets discover the foods that increase breast milk production. As everyone knows about these foods, but we are not aware about which foods are help What foods to avoid with ulcers ? This is a good idea that you are looking for foods to avoid with ulcers. As most of the people just search on home remedies to cure ulcers. But on How can i increase my weight ? Now a days many people are facing lot of problems due to over weight, but there is no wonder that some of them are still looking to increase their Can fenugreek help to increase breast milk ? The answer is Yes. As fenugreek is a very natural indian herb, which has its own benefits, which you can get by using the fenugreek itself. We update our home remedies for health daily. Please visit regularly to find a more home remedies tips for . Feel free to contribute your own home remedy so that others may benefit from your experiences! Popular Health Articles How to Kill Head Lice Naturally How to increase breast milk production How to be in good health Body Acne Wash Body Acne Acne Scar Removal Home Remedies All Home Remedies information on this site is inteded for informational 
            purposes only and is not meant as a substitute for professional medical 
            advise. Always consult a physician for questions concerning your health 
            or that of your family / friends. NOTE: All these home remedies are 
            thought by my mother and i use in my regular life.The whole content 
            available on this site is my own and not copied from anyone. Home 
            Remedies | Herbal 
            Remedies | Health 
            Tips | Beauty 
            Tips | Articles | Blog | Sitemap Forum | Ask 
            Question | Add 
            Remedy | Health 
            Directory | Advertise | Home © HOME REMEDIES. All rights res