
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 14:44:28 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
ETag: "d3867e9a44fb12ebe53ce72816e7f277"
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Last-Modified: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 12:58:41 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Urinary Tract Infection in Multiple Sclerosis | cvscaremarkspecialtyrx Skip
    to main content Search Specialty Pharmacy Services Prescriptions and Refills Drug List Condition Resources and Tools Home » Patients » Condition Resources and Tools » Multiple Sclerosis » Related Conditions » Urinary Tract Infection Multiple Sclerosis Newly Diagnosed What is Multiple Sclerosis? Who gets MS? Understanding the causes What are the symptoms? What can I expect? Living with Multiple Sclerosis Bladder Difficulties Bowel Difficulties Fatigue Pain Skin Problems Spasticity Speech and Swallowing Problems Weakness Tremor Mood and Behavior When Should I Call the Doctor? Related Conditions Cognitive Problems Dizziness and Vertigo Optic Neuritis Osteoporosis and MS Sexual Dysfunction Urinary Tract Infection Therapies and Medications How is MS treated? Why Do I Need So Many Doctors? Your MS Healthcare Team Infection and Disease-Modifying Drugs Staying Healthy Blood Pressure Tips for Managing Stress Exercise and MS MS and Stress MS and a Healthy Diet MS Support Resources Urinary Tract Infection in Multiple Sclerosis Print Email Share By ACCORDANT HEALTH SERVICES A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a bacterial infection of the urethra, bladder, ureters or kidneys. When infection is confined to the lower urinary tract (the bladder) it is called cystitis. If infection spreads to the upper urinary tract (the kidneys) it is called pyelonephritis, and is considered more serious. Inflammation of the urethra, the channel between the bladder to the outside of the body, is urethritis. While UTIs are painful, with prompt treatment they rarely become serious. What Causes Urinary Tract Infections? Urine is naturally sterile--it contains no bacteria or viruses. It also has natural properties that inhibit the growth of bacteria. UTIs occur when organisms enter the urinary tract from outside and multiply within the urinary tract. Anyone can get UTIs, but women are more prone to them because the female urethra is shorter, allowing bacteria to spread more easily. One in five women will get a UTI in her lifetime and infections will recur in many. Sexually active women are more likely to get UTIs because intercourse can introduce bacteria into the urethra. Most infections are caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria, which are abundant in the intestinal tract and therefore in the rectal area. Women also get UTIs from vaginal organisms such as chlamydia and the herpes simplex virus. Using a diaphragm for birth control has been linked to more UTIs in women. After menopause women may become more prone to UTIs. This is because the reduction in estrogen thins the urethra and the base of the bladder. When UTI symptoms occur in men, acute prostatitis should be considered, since its symptoms are similar to those of a urinary tract infection. Most of the time, male UTIs are caused by bacteria that enter the urethra during sexual activity. Gonorrhea and chlamydia bacteria cause most UTIs in men. UTIs are common among patients with MS who have bladder problems that affect their ability to void. Urine left in the bladder fosters infection because bacteria multiply freely in stagnant urine. For this reason, those with "failure to empty" dysfunction, which retains urine in the bladder, may be prone to UTIs. Those with "conflicting bladder" have both retention and emptying problems due to spasms, and are also prone to urinary tract infection. For both men and women, the use of a catheter increases the risk for UTI. What Are the Symptoms of a Urinary Tract Infection? Symptoms can include: Burning or pain upon urination Urgency to urinate The need to urinate frequently Incontinence (an uncontrollable urge to urinate) Nocturia (the need to urinate frequently during the night) Itching Strong-smelling urine Pain in the lower back or abdomen Chills and/or low grade fever Dark-colored urine Blood in the urine Pain during sexual intercourse How is a UTI Diagnosed? After a review of the patient's symptoms and a physical examination, which may include a pelvic exam for women, lab tests will be ordered. A urine analysis that reveals white blood cells and bacteria confirms UTI. A urine culture may be ordered to test for sensitivity to specific antibiotics. What is the Treatment? A UTI requires a course of antibiotics, usually for 3 to 10 days. Most UTIs are treated with amoxicillin, nitrofurantoin, sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim or ciproflaxacin. Patients are usually also advised to increase fluids and specifically instructed to drink cranberry juice. Researchers have discovered that cranberry juice changes the shape of E. coli bacteria in a way that prevents them from attaching to the wall of the bladder. This allows the bacteria to be more easily "rinsed out" during urination. Vitamin C (at least 1000 mg/day) may also be recommended because it increases urine acidity. Pain relief medication may be prescribed as well. Symptoms begin to decrease after the first 24 hours of treatment. Severe infections are treated in a hospital with intravenous antibiotics. An infection that has spread to the kidneys can enter the bloodstream and become life threatening. Patients with recurrent UTIs or severe UTIs with kidney involvement should be seen by an urologist or nephrologist. Can Anything Be Done to Avoid Urinary Tract Infections? Patients should be evaluated for neurogenic bladder problems and follow the recommendations of their physician. Beyond that, there are a number of precautions that can be taken to help avoid urinary tract infections. Here are some general tips: Drink 6 to 8 glasses of water every day. Take vitamin C and drink cranberry juice on a regular basis. Keep the genital area clean. Try not to hold urine long after the urge to urinate is felt. Try to empty the bladder as completely as possible, straining or applying external pressure with the hand if necessary. Additional tips just for women: Wear all-cotton or cotton-crotch underwear and pantyhose. Change underwear and pantyhose daily. Urinate after sexual intercourse and drink a glass of water. After using the bathroom wipe from front to back to keep bacteria away from the urethra. Take showers instead of tub baths. Change incontinent products frequently Last Modified Date: March 01, 2009 © Accordant Health Services, a CVS/Caremark company. All rights reserved. This article has been reviewed for accuracy by a member of the Accordant Health Services Medical Advisory Team. This information is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice. You should not use this information to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease without consulting with a qualified healthcare provider. Please consult your healthcare provider with any questions or concerns you may have regarding your condition. Use of this online service is subject to the disclaimer and the terms and conditions. I Want To... Get Started ► Request a Refill ► View the Drug List ► Contact Us ► Reaching Out National Multiple Sclerosis Society Multiple Sclerosis Association of America Multiple Sclerosis Foundation About Us Contact Us Site Map Site best viewed with Browsers: Internet Explorer 8.0, Firefox 3.6 and Chro