
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:01:05 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.2
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Rheumatoid arthritis Skip to content About Us Find a Doctor Careers Giving Directions Contact Us 2220 Kernan Drive Baltimore, MD 21207 1-888-4KERNAN (453-7626) Patients & Visitors Why Choose Kernan? Ask the Expert Your Treatment Team During your Hospital Stay Services Available at Kernan Hotels, Food & Area Attractions Classes and Support Groups Healing Garden Patient Success Stories Info for Physicians Programs/Services Ambulatory Services Anesthesia Services Center for Integrative Medicine Dental Services Orthopaedics Outpatient Therapies Pain Management Center Plastic Surgery Rehabilitation Rheumatology Urology Clinical Trials Health Library Medical Reference Video Library Useful Links Make an Appointment General Appointments Pain Management Center Kernan Home Programs and Services Find a Doctor Site Map Home > Medical Reference > Complementary Medicine Rheumatoid arthritis Introduction: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease where the body' s immune system mistakenly attacks the synovium, a thin membrane that lines the joints. It causes chronic inflammation that leads to pain, swelling, and stiffness. Eventually, bones and joints can be damaged, leading to disability. RA usually affects joints on both sides of the body equally -- if a joint on one side is affected, the same joint on the opposite side if affected. Wrists, fingers, knees, feet, and ankles, and elbows are most often affected. RA can also affect other organs, and people who have RA are at higher risk for other diseases including heart disease, diabetes, and osteoporosis. RA is a chronic disease, and it is important that people with RA work closely with their doctor .to find a treatment plan that lessens symptoms and joint damage. There is no cure for RA, but taking medication and making lifestyle changes can help you manage the disease. Alternative and complementary therapies can also help relieve symptoms, but only conventional medications can halt the progression of the disease and stop further joint damage. In some cases, medications can help put RA into remission and symptoms may disappear completely. Signs and Symptoms: Symptoms of RA include: Morning stiffness -- waking up with stiff joints (often the wrists and base of the fingers, ankles, balls of the feet, elbows, or knees) Joint pain with warmth, swelling, tenderness, and stiffness of the joint after resting Limited range of motion in the affected joints Fatigue Low grade fever (when having a flare) Small, round, firm bumps (called nodules) under the skin; you can feel these, but they are generally painless. Causes: The cause of RA isn' t known, although genetics and environment probably play a part. Researchers believe that genetics may predispose some people to RA. In those people, environmental factors, bacteria, and viruses may then trigger RA. Some evidence suggests that hormones may also play a role, but researchers aren' t sure. In RA, the body' s immune system -- which normally fights off foreign invaders -- mistakenly attacks the lining of the joints (called the synovium). That causes inflammation, which thickens the synovium and eventually destroys the cartilage and bone in the joints. RA can occur at any age. It usually occurs in people between 25 - 55 years of age. Women are affected more often than men. RA usually affects joints on both sides of the body equally. Wrists, fingers, knees, feet, elbows, and ankles are the most often affected. Risk Factors: Age. Although the disease can occur at any age, RA generally starts in young adulthood usually between ages 25 and 55. Gender. Women get RA two and a half times more often than men, and are more likely to have severe symptoms. Family history. Having relatives with RA increases your risk of getting it yourself. Cigarette smoking. Smoking seems to increases your risk of getting RA. Medication. Interferon-alpha, a drug used to treat hepatitis, autoimmune diseases, and other diseases has triggered RA in rare cases Diagnosis: RA can be hard to diagnose because it resembles many other conditions, and symptoms may develop so gradually. Even after RA has been diagnosed, it is extremely important to determine how the disease is progressing in order to treat it appropriately. Your doctor will take your medical history and do a physical exam. Blood tests, x-rays, and aspiration (the removal of fluid from the joint) may also be needed. Several blood tests may be done. One test checks for an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR, or sed rate), which is a sign of inflammation in the body. Other blood tests that may be done include checking for certain antibodies, including rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies (ANA), and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies. These antibodies are present in most people with RA, but not all. Treatment Approach: If you have RA, it is important to get it diagnosed and start treatment early. Studies have shown that early, aggressive treatment for RA can halt the destruction of joints. In addition to rest, regular exercise, and taking anti-inflammatory medications, your doctor will start you on disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). These drugs do more than relieve symptoms -- they halt the progression of the disease. Complementary and alternative therapies can be used along with conventional treatment to help relieve pain and stiffness. Studies show that certain dietary supplements, particularly omega-3 fatty acids, show promise in helping to relieve symptoms. Be sure to tell all your health care providers about any supplements, herbs, or other therapies you are using. Some herbs and supplements can interact with certain medications and should not be taken together. RA usually requires lifelong treatment, including medications, physical therapy, education, and possibly surgery. Frequently, the disease can be controlled with a combination of treatments. Lifestyle Regular exercise -- consisting of aerobic exercise, strengthening exercises, and flexibility or range of motion exercises -- prescribed by a physical therapist can help to maintain joint motion and strength. Exercise also helps relieve pain and helps you maintain a proper weight, which takes pressure off your joints. Doctors often recommend walking, swimming, warm-water exercise, or biking for people with RA. If you are not used to exercising, start slow and work your way up, aiming for 30 minutes of aerobic exercise 5 or more days a week. Weight-bearing exercises (such as lifting weights, using a resistance band, or walking) are also recommended to keep bones strong. People with RA often take corticosteroids to reduce inflammation. Taking corticosteroids long-term raises the risk of developing osteoporosis. Joint protection techniques, such as heat and cold treatments and splints or orthotic (straightening) devices to support and align joints, may help as well. Medications The following drugs are used to treat RA: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) -- NSAIDS are used to relieve joint pain and inflammation. They do not stop progression of RA. Long-term use can cause stomach problems, such as ulcers and bleeding, and possible heart problems. In April 2005, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asked drug manufacturers of NSAIDs to include a warning label on their product to alert users of an increased risk for heart problems and gastrointestinal bleeding. These drugs include ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) and naproxen (Aleve) as well as prescription medications. Celecoxib (Celebrex) -- Celebrex is a type of drug called a COX-2 inhibitor, which blocks an inflammation-promoting enzyme called COX-2. COX-2 inhibitors were developed to work as well as traditional NSAIDs, but with fewer stomach problems. However, numerous reports of heart attacks and stroke have prompted the FDA to re-evaluate the risks and benefits of the COX-2s. Two drugs in this class -- Rofecoxib (Vioxx) and valdecoxib (Bextra) -- were taken off the U.S. market following reports of heart attacks in patients taking the drugs. Celebrex is still available, but it is labeled with strong warnings and a recommendation that it be prescribed at the lowest possible dose for the shortest duration possible. Corticosteroids -- Also known as steroids, these medications are used to quickly bring down inflammation, often during a flare. Steroids have side effects including weight gain, nausea, and fluid retention. Long-term use raises the risk of osteoporosis and diabetes. Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) -- These drugs can slow progression of the disease and halt joint damage. Side effects can include liver damage and susceptibility to infection. Methotrexate (Rheumatrex) is used most often for RA. Other DMARDs include: Leflunomide (Arava) Sulfasalazine (Azulfidine) Hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) Minocycline (Minocin) Immune suppressants -- Suppress the immune system, which is overactive in people with RA. Side effects include susceptibility to infection. These drugs include: Azathioprine (Imuran) Cyclosporine (Neoral) Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) Biologic agents -- Biologics are newer drugs that target a specific part of the inflammation process and can slow or halt progression of joint damage. Etanercept (Enbrel), infliximab (Remicade), adalimumab (Humira), and certolizumab pegol (Cimzia) block production of TNF-alpha, or tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a chemical produced by your body that is involved in inflammation. Anakinra (Kineret) stops a protein called interleukin-1 (IL-1). Abatacept (Orencia) stops the activation of T cells, a type of white blood cell, in the body. Rituximab (Rituxan) blocks B cells, another type of white blood cell involved in the immune system response. Biologics are often used after other treatments have failed, and are often combined with a DMARD (usually methotrexate). Surgery and Other Procedures Surgery may be needed to treat severely affected joints. The most successful surgeries are those on the knees and hips. Sometimes total joint replacement with a prosthesis (an artificial joint) is needed. Surgeries may relieve pain, correct deformities, and modestly improve joint function. In some cases, total knee or hip replacement can restore mobility and improve quality of life. Nutrition and Dietary Supplements For anyone with a chronic illness, eating a healthy diet that' s low in saturated fat and high in antioxidant foods -- fruits and vegetables -- is essential. Eating foods that are high in saturated fat may contribute to inflammation in the body. Also, people with RA are at higher risk of developing heart disease and diabetes. A healthy diet and regular exercise can lower that risk. Although diet cannot cure RA, some people report that they have less pain, stiffness, and fatigue when they switched from a typical Western diet (high in animal protein and simple sugars) to a vegan diet with lots of uncooked berries, fruits, vegetables, nuts, roots, seeds, and sprouts. Vegan diets contain no animal products and get protein from vegetable sources. Some people think food allergies may play a part in the inflammation common in RA, and say that their symptoms get worse after they eat certain foods. Although researchers aren' t sure if food allergies are to blame, you may want to try an elimination diet, which removes certain foods from your diet and then adds them back in, one by one. You will need to keep careful track of your symptoms in a food diary. Usually it' s best to try an elimination diet under the supervision of your doctor or a registered dietitian. These general nutritional tips can help you eat a healthy diet: Avoid refined foods such as white breads, pastas, and sugar. Eat fewer red meats and more lean meats, cold-water fish, tofu (soy, if no allergy) or beans for protein. Use healthy cooking oils, such as olive oil or vegetable oil. Reduce or eliminate trans-fatty acids, found in commercially baked goods such as cookies, crackers, cakes, French fries, onion rings, donuts, processed foods, and margarine. Avoid caffeine and other stimulants, alcohol, and tobacco. Drink 6 - 8 glasses of filtered water daily. Exercise 30 minutes daily, 5 days a week. These supplements may help relieve inflammation and pain: Omega-3 fatty acids, such as fish oil, up to 2.6 g daily -- Omega-3 fatty acids may help reduce inflammation. A review of studies where people with RA took omega-3 fatty acids found they had fewer tender joints but no difference in joint damage. In some studies, people who take omega-3s are able to reduce the dose of NSAIDs or corticosteroids they take for RA. Omega-3 fatty acids may also reduce the risk of heart disease, which is elevated in people with RA. Omega-3 fatty acid supplements may raise the risk of bleeding, so ask your doctor if they are right for you. Vitamin E -- One study suggests that taking vitamin E along with standard medications for rheumatoid arthritis may help reduce pain -- but not inflammation -- better than standard medications alone. Bromelain (500 mg - 2,000 mg three times daily) -- This enzyme derived from pineapples may help reduce inflammation and pain. It may increase the risk of bleeding, so ask your doctor before taking it. Gamma linolenic acid (GLA), found in borage oil, evening primrose oil, and black currant seed oil, 1.1 g - 2.6 g daily -- may help reduce pain, stiffness, and swelling. One study found that people with RA who took 2.8 g of GLA for six months reduced pain and swelling and improved their grip strength. Folic acid -- People who take methotrexate for RA may need additional folic acid, because methotrexate hinders the body' s ability to absorb folic acid. In addition, one study found that folic acid supplements helped reduce side effects (including liver problems) from methotrexate. High doses of folic acid can mask a vitamin B-12 deficiency, so ask your doctor if you need folic acid supplements -- don' t just start taking them on your own. Herbs You can use herbs in the form of dried extracts (capsules, powders, teas), glycerites (glycerine extracts), or tinctures (alcohol extracts). Unless otherwise indicated, make teas with 1 tsp. herb per cup of hot water. Steep covered 5 - 10 minutes for leaf or flowers, and 10 - 20 minutes for roots. Drink 2 - 4 cups per day. Herbs may be a helpful addition to conventional treatment for RA, but should never be used alone to treat RA. Herbs do not halt joint damage and progression of the disease, as some conventional medications can. Boswellia (Boswellia serrata), 400 mg - 800 mg three times daily -- Boswellia has been used traditionally to treat arthritis in Ayurvedic medicine. Studies using it to treat RA have been mixed. Some found that it relieved pain and swelling, but others found it was no better than placebo. Ginger (Zingiber officinale) , up to 2 g per day in divided doses, may reduce joint inflammation and pain. One study found that ginger extract inhibited COX-2, a chemical in the body that causes pain. Ginger may increase the risk of bleeding, so people who take anticoagulants (blood thinners) should not take ginger without first talking to their doctor. Green tea (Camelia sinensis) standardized extract, 250 - 500 mg daily -- Green tea is loaded with antioxidants, and test tube studies found that it may block inflammatory chemicals that are involved in RA. Use caffeine-free products. You may also prepare teas from the leaf of this herb. Cat's claw (Uncaria tomentosa) standardized extract, 20 mg three times a day -- may help reduce inflammation. One study found that people with RA who took cat' s claw experienced a modest reduction in pain and swelling. Cat' s claw may stimulate the immune system, which could cause problems in a disease like RA where the immune system is already overactive. For that reason, do not take cat' s claw except without the supervision of your doctor. Turmeric (Curcuma longa) standardized extract, 400 mg three times a day -- may help reduce pain and inflammation. It is sometimes combined with bromelain, because it makes the effects of bromelain stronger. Turmeric can increase the risk of bleeding, so ask your doctor before taking it. Devil's claw (Harpagophytum procumbens) standardized extract, 100 - 200 mg one to two times daily -- may reduce inflammation. One study found that people with RA who took devil' s claw reduced pain and improved their mobility. But not all studies have found that devil' s claw was effective for RA; evidence is mixed. Capsaicin (Capsicum frutescens) cream, applied to the skin (topically) -- Capsaicin is the main component in hot chili peppers (also known as cayenne). Applied to the skin, it is believed to temporarily reduce amounts of “substance P,” a chemical that contributes to inflammation and pain in arthritis. Pain reduction generally starts 3 - 7 days after applying the capsaicin cream to the skin. Wash hands well with vinegar after use and avoid touching the eyes. Acupuncture There is little to no scientific evidence supporting the use of acupuncture for RA. However, some people with RA report that acupuncture helps relieve their pain and improves their quality of life. Acupuncturists treat people with RA based on an individualized assessment of the excesses and deficiencies of qi, or energy, located in various meridians. A qi deficiency is usually detected in the spleen and kidney meridians. Acupuncturists may use moxibustion (a technique in which the herb mugwort is burned over specific acupuncture points) to strengthen the entire energy system. Qualified acupuncturists may also provide lifestyle, dietary, and herbal advice to people with RA. Practitioners may apply local treatment to the painful areas and related sore points, either with a needle or moxibustion. You should not rely on acupuncture alone to treat RA, as it does not halt progression of the disease. It may be helpful as a supportive treatment with conventional medical therapy. Exercise Regular exercise is important for people with RA. It boosts overall health, helps you maintain a proper weight (which takes pressure off joints), and helps prevent heart disease, diabetes, and osteoporosis. It also reduces pain and can improve mood. While you may choose to rest during an active flare, it' s important to stay in good shape and maintain range of motion in your joints. Ask your doctor or physical therapist to design an exercise program for you. Many people with RA find that walking, swimming, or warm-water exercise are helpful. Doctors used to advise people with RA do only gentle exercises, fearing more joint damage. But recent research suggests that more intense exercise may not only be safe, but may actually produce greater muscle strength and overall functioning. To know how long or hard you should exercise, ask your doctor and pay attention to signs from your body: If you feel sharp pains while exercising, stop immediately. Some soreness after exercising is normal. If aches and pains continue for more than 2 hours afterwards, try a lighter exercise program for a while. Be sure to warm up and cool down. Using large joints instead of small ones for ordinary tasks can help relieve pain. For example, use your hip to close doors or the palm of your hand to push buttons. Balneotherapy (Hydrotherapy or spa therapy) Balneotherapy is one of the oldest forms of therapy for pain relief for people with arthritis. The term "balneo" comes from the Latin word for bath (balneum) and refers to bathing in thermal or mineral waters. For example, sulfur-containing mud baths have been shown to relieve symptoms of arthritis. The goals of balneotherapy for arthritis include: Improving range of joint motion Increasing muscle strength Eliminating muscle spasm Enhancing functional mobility Easing pain Exercising and swimming in a heated pool may also help. Mechanical Aids A variety of mechanical devices, called orthoses, are available for people with RA to help support and protect joints. Made from lightweight metal leather, elastic, foam, and plastic, they allow some movement of the affected joint while not restricting nearby joints. For example, splints or braces help align joints and properly distribute weight. Shock-absorbing soles in shoes can help in daily activities and during exercise. Physical therapists use these mechanical aids most frequently to treat hands, wrists, knees, ankles, and feet. Orthoses should be custom-fitted by a physical or occupational therapist. Compression gloves may help some people. Two studies on the overnight use of compression gloves (close-fitting nylon-spandex gloves) concluded that the gloves reduced pain and stiffness in people with RA in the fingers. Other possibilities for symptom relief include: Transcutaneous nerve stimulation (TENS) -- small clinical studies show that TENS, a technique used by many physical therapists, may provide short-term pain relief for people with RA. Heat and cold applications -- may reduce pain Homeopathy Recent trials evaluating homeopathy to treat RA found that the remedies were no better than placebo in reducing symptoms. These studies contradict an older trial that showed positive effects with homeopathic treatment. Despite the lack of definitive evidence, professional homeopaths might recommend one of the following treatments for RA based on their knowledge and clinical experience. Before prescribing a remedy, homeopaths take into account an individual's constitutional type -- your physical, emotional, and intellectual makeup. An experienced homeopath assesses all of these factors when determining the most appropriate remedy for a particular individual. Potential remedies include: A topical homeopathic gel containing comfrey (Symphytum officinale ), poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron), and marsh-tea (Ledum palustre) A combination homeopathic preparation containing R. toxicodendron, Arnica montana (arnica), Solanum dulcamara (climbing nightshade), Sanguinarra canadensis (bloodroot), and Sulphur A liquid homeopathic preparation containing R. toxicodendron , Causticum (potassium hydrate), and Lac vaccinum (cow's milk) Mind-Body Medicine Chronic pain and disability can make daily life difficult, and stress can make an RA flare worse. Many people report that relaxation techniques, such as guided imagery and meditation, help improve quality of life and reduce pain and other symptoms of RA. Yoga This ancient Indian practice is well known for its physical, psychological, emotional, and spiritual benefits. In the West, it is often recommended to relieve musculoskeletal symptoms and some studies have found it can help relieve RA pain. Some yoga "asanas" (postures) strengthen the quadriceps and emphasize stretching, both of which help people with RA of the knee. People with arthritis should begin asanas slowly and they should be performed only after a warm up. Look for a reputable instructor who knows how to modify postures for people with RA. Tai Chi This gentle exercise program practiced in China for centuries has been shown to produce a number of benefits, including the following: Better fitness Increased muscular strength Better flexibility Reduced percentage of body fat Reduced risk of falls in the elderly Tai chi is generally safe for people with RA, and a review of scientific studies has found that it may help improve flexibility and range of motion, especially for people with RA in their ankles. Other Considerations: Prognosis and Complications RA is associated with many complications. Joint deformities Cervical spine problems (can be life threatening) Painless, hard, round or oval masses called nodules that appear under the skin Pleuritis (inflammation of the lungs) Anemia Rheumatoid vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) Pericarditis (inflammation of the outer lining of the heart) Myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) Heart failure Eye inflammation Osteoporosis Heart disease Diabetes The course of the disease varies between people. People with a certain antibody in the blood (anti-CCP) or nodules may be at risk for faster progression of the disease. People who develop RA at younger ages also tend to have faster disease progression. Although complications may shorten the life expectancy of people with RA, treatment is constantly improving and newer medications offer more hope for remission. Alternative Names: Arthritis - rheumatoid Reviewed last on: 12/15/2009 Steven D. Ehrlich, NMD, Solutions Acupuncture, a private practice specializing in complementary and alternative medicine, Phoenix, AZ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Supporting Research Ang-Lee M, Moss J, Yuan C. Herbal medicines and perioperative care. JAMA. 2001;286(2):208-216. Belch JJ, Hill A. Evening primrose oil and borage oil in rheumatologic conditions. Am J Clin Nutr . 2000;71(1 Suppl):352S-356S. Berman BM, Swyers JP, Ezzo J. The evidence for acupuncture as a treatment for rheumatologic conditions. Rheum Dis Clin N Amer. 2000;26(1):103-115. Calder PC, Albers R, Antoine JM, et al. Inflammatory disease processes and interactions with nutrition. Br J Nutr . 2009 May;101 Suppl 1:S1-45. Review. Cameron M, Gagnier JJ, Little CV, Parsons TJ, Blümle A, Chrubasik S. Evidence of effectiveness of herbal medicinal products in the treatment of arthritis. Part 2: Rheumatoid arthritis. Phytother Res. 2009 Dec;23(12):1647-62. Choi HK. Dietary risk factors for rheumatic diseases. Curr Opin Rheumatol . 2005;17(2):141-6. Dash M, Telles S. Improvement in hand grip strength in normal volunteers and rheumatoid arthritis patients following yoga training. Indian J Physiol Pharmacol. 2001;45(3):355-360. De Pablo P, Dietrich T, Karlson EW. Antioxidants and other novel cardiovascular risk factors in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis in a large population sample. Arthritis Rheum. 2007;57(6):953-62. Elkayam O, Ophir J, Brener S, et al. Immediate and delayed effects of treatment at the Dead Sea in patients with psoriatic arthritis. Rheumatol Int. 2000;19(3):77-82. Elkan AC, Engvall IL, Tengstrand B, Cederholm T, Hafstrom I. Malnutrition in women with rheumatoid arthritis is not revealed by clinical anthropometrical measurements or nutritional evaluation tools. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2007 Jul 18; [Epub ahead of print] Ernst E. Complementary and alternative medicine in rheumatology. Baillieres Clin Rheumatol. 2000;14(4):731-749. Ernst E, Chrubasik S. Phyto -- anti-inflammatories. A systematic review of randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2000;26(1):13-27. Forestier R, André-Vert J, Guillez P, Coudeyre E, Lefevre-Colau MM, Combe B, Mayoux-Benhamou MA. Non-drug treatment (excluding surgery) in rheumatoid arthritis: Clinical practice guidelines. Joint Bone Spine . 2009 Nov 27. [Epub ahead of print] Friso S, Jacques PF, Wilson PW, Rosenberg IH, Selhub J. Low circulating vitamin B(6) is associated with elevation of the inflammation marker C-reactive protein independently of plasma homocysteine levels. Circulation . 2001;103(23):2788-2791. Funk JL, Frye JB, Oyarzo JN, Kuscuoglu N, Wilson J, McCaffrey G, Stafford G, Chen G, Lantz RC, Jolad SD, Sólyom AM, Kiela PR, Timmermann BN. Efficacy and mechanism of action of turmeric supplements in the treatment of experimental arthritis. Arthritis Rheum . 2006 Nov;54(11):3452-64. Galarraga B, Ho M, Youssef HM, Hill A, McMahon H, Hall C, Ogston S, Nuki G, Belch JJ. Cod liver oil (n-3 fatty acids) as an non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug sparing agent in rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2008 May;47(5):665-9. Garfinkel M, Schumacher HR, Jr. Yoga. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2000;26(1):125-132. Goldberg RJ, Katz J. A meta-analysis of the analgesic effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation for inflammatory joint pain. Pain . 2007 May;129(1-2):210-23. Guardia T, Rotelli AE, Juarez AO, Pelzer LE. Anti-inflammatory properties of plant flavonoids. Effects of rutin, quercetin, and hesperidin on adjuvant arthritis in rat. Farmaco . 2001;56(9):683-687. Hafstrom I, Ringertz B, Spangberg A, et al. A vegan diet free of gluten improves the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis: the effects on arthritis correlate with a reduction in antibodies to food antigens. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2001;40(10):1175-1179. Halpern GM. Anti-inflammatory effects of a stabilized lipid extract of Perna canaliculus (Lyprinol). Allerg Immunol (Paris). 2000;32(7):272-278. Han A, Robinson V, Judd M, Taixiang W, Wells G, Tugwell P. Tai chi for treating rheumatoid arthritis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2004;(3):CD004849. Han C, Smolen J, Kavanaugh A, et al. The impact of infliximab treatment on quality of life in patients with inflammatory rheumatic diseases. Arthritis Res Ther . 2007;9(5):R103 [Epub ahead of print]. Hanninen, Kaartinen K, Rauma AL, et al. Antioxidants in vegan diet and rheumatic disorders. Toxicology. 2000;155(1-3):45-53. Hutchinson D, Shepstone L, Moots R, Lear JT, Lynch MP. Heavy cigarette smoking is strongly associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), particularly in patients without a family history of RA. Ann Rheum Dis . 2001;60(3):223-227. Karlson EW, Mandl LA, Aweh GN, Grodstein F. Coffee consumption and risk of rheumatoid arthritis. Arhtritis Rheum 2003 Nov;48(11):3055-3060. Kast RE. Borage oil reduction of rheumatoid arthritis activity may be mediated by increased cAMP that suppresses tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Int Immunopharmacol . 2001;1(12):2197-2199. Karatay S, Erdem T, Kiziltunc A, et al. General or personal diet: the individualized model for diet challenges in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatol Int . 2006;26(6):556-60. Klein G, Kullich W. Short-term treatment of painful osteoarthritis of the knee with oral enzymes. A randomized, double-blind study versus diclofenec. Clin Drug Invest . 2000;19(1):15-23. Kinjo M, Setoguchi S, Solomon DH. Bone mineral density in older adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis: an analysis of NHANES III. J Rheumatol . 2007;34(10):1971-5. Kneckt P. Serum selenium, serum alpha-tocopherol, and the risk of rheumatoid arthritis. Epidemiology . 2000;11(4):402-405. Kremer JM. N-3 fatty acid supplements in rheumatoid arthritis. Am J Clin Nutr . 2000;(suppl 1):349S-351S. Kumazawa Y, Kawaguchi K, Takimoto H. Immunomodulating effects of flavonoids on acute and chronic inflammatory responses caused by tumor necrosis factor alpha. Curr Pharm Des . 2006;12(32):4271-9. Lineker SC, Bell MJ, Wilkins AL, Badley EM. Improvements following short term home based physical therapy are maintained at one year in people with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol . 2001;28(1):165-168. Little C, Parsons T. Herbal therapy for treating rheumatoid arthritis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2001;(1):CD002948. McDougall J, Bruce B, Spiller G, Westerdahl J, McDougall M. Effects of a very low-fat, vegan diet in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis. J Altern Complement Med. 2002;8(1):71-75. Mesa Garcia MD, Aguilera Garcia CM, Gil Hernandez A. Importance of lipids in the nutritional treatment of inflammatory diseases. Nutr Hosp. 2006;21 Suppl 2:28-41, 30-43. Milanino R, Marrella M, Crivellente F, Benoni G, Cuzzolin L. Nutritional supplementation with copper in the rat. Effects on adjuvant arthritis development and on some in vivo- and ex vivo-markers of blood neutrophils. Inflamm Res . 2000;49(5):214-223. Mur E, Hartig F, Eibl G, Schirmer M. Randomized double blind trial of an extract from the pentacyclic alkaloid-chemotype of uncaria tomentosa for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol. 2002;29(4):678-681. Pedersen M, Stripp C, Klarlund M, Olsen SF, Tjonneland AM, Frisch M. Diet and risk of rheumatoid arthritis in a prospective cohort. J Rheumatol . 2005;32(7):1249-52. Rothman D, DeLuca P, Zurier RB. Botanical lipids: effects on inflammation, immune responses, and rheumatoid arthritis. Semin Arthritis Rheum . 1995;25(2):87-96. Segal NA, Toda Y, Huston J, et al. Two configurations of static magnetic fields for treating rheumatoid arthritis of the knee: a double-blind clinical trial. Arch Phys Med Rehabil . 2001;82(10):1453-1460. Simard JF, Mittleman MA. Prevalent rheumatoid arthritis and diabetes among NHANES III participants aged 60 and older. J Rheumatol. 2007;34(3):469-73. Stamp LK, James MJ, Cleland LG. Diet and rheumatoid arthritis: a review of the literature. Semin Arthritis Rheum . 2005;35(2):77-94. Stark LJ, Janicke DM, McGrath AM, Mackner LM, Hommel KA, Lovell D. Prevention of osteoporosis: a randomized clinical trial to increase calcium intake in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. J Pediatr Psychol. 2005 Jul-Aug;30(5):377-86. Tam LS, Leung PC, Li TK, Zhang L, Li EK. Acupuncture in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis: a double-blind controlled pilot study. BMC Complement Altern Med . 2007;7(1):35 [Epub ahead of print]. Tengstrand B, Larsson E, Klareskog L, Hafstrom I. Randomized withdrawal of long-term prednisolone treatment in rheumatoid arthritis: effects on inflammation and bone mineral density. Scand J Rheumatol. 2007;36(5):351-8. Willer B, Stucki G, Hoppeler H, Bruhlmann P, Krahenbuhl S. Effects of creatine supplementation on muscle weakness in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatology . 2000;39(3):293-298. Compliance Policies Site Map Return to Home Page © 2008 University of Maryland Medical System (UMMS). All rights reserved. 
    Kernan Hospital, 2200