Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Back Pain Exercises | Easy Back Stretching Exercise Back Pain Exercises - Leg rolling lying down One of the best exercises for the lower back  if you are feeling very sore You may find some back pain exercises helpful when you have acute lower back pain (a recent back problem that is in the early stages). This exercise is a particularly nice and easy one to do if your back is very sore as it is a gentle stretch. Advertisement - Article Continues Below Of course, always check with your doctor or physiotherapist before starting any program of lower back exercise. Â Level - Easy Lie in your back and let your legs roll gently from side to side. Use your tummy muscles to lift from a strong centre when you bring your knees back to the middle. Go only as far as you are comfortable. Back Pain Exercises- Stretching Exercises Hub Lower Back Pain Toolkit Home Page Why exercise at all? 02-Feb-2011 Home Free e-Course Manage Back Pain Book Back Pain Action Guide Anatomy The Human Spine Back Pain Causes Causes - Overview Non-Specific Back Pain Sciatica Piriformis Syndrome Pregnancy X-Ray and MRI  Scans Lumbar MRI and XRay Symptoms Where it hurts Numbness and Tingling How it Feels Active Treatments Sciatica Exercises Posture Exercise Hub Stretch Exercises Core Stability Fitness Hub Fitness Ideas Back Pain Products Back Support Cushions Best  Mattress Back Pain Treatment Types of Treatment All About Pain Understand Pain Chronic v Acute Pain News and Research Guidelines News/Research Back Pain Blog Essentials Disclaimer Your Questions Site Map Contact About Me Search Subscribe To This Site Custom Search Share | Don't Let Back Pain
      Stop 
    You Living a Normal Life The Back Pain Action Guide is a six step programme that shows you how   you can keep living a normal life and stop worrying about your back   pain. Click on the image   of the book to learn more about what's inside. About Me | Privacy | Terms and Conditions | Disclaimer | *Finance | Contact Copyright © 2006-2012 Paula Fitzpatrick. All rights reserved. By reading this web site you agree to accept our terms and conditions . The general information on this web site  is designed to support,  not replace,  specific medical advice or the relationship between you and your health care provider.  Always seek  specific advice from a physician or oth