
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 22:15:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

The symptoms of alcohol detox. Convulsions, anxiety, nausea, hallucinations HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Mental Health » Addiction » Alcoholism » The symptoms of alcohol detox. Convulsions, anxiety, nausea, hallucinations 77 rate or flag By recovering addict http://www.aboutalcoholism.org/shadowedalcohol.jpg Alcohol detoxification...don't do it on your own. The health risks of alcohol detox We often underestimate the dangers of alcohol, and because it is both legal and socially accepted, we forget that it is a very destructive and powerful substance. Once someone becomes dependent on alcohol (addicted) they will need more alcohol to feel the same effects, they will feel a compulsion to drink (cravings) and they will experience withdrawal pains if they do not drink. For some heavy drinkers, with a relatively brief period of dependency, these alcohol detoxification symptoms are uncomfortable but manageable. For anyone with a serious history of alcohol abuse, or a recent history of very heavy drinking; the symptoms of alcohol detox can be severe, dangerous, and in some cases even fatal. What are some of the symptoms of alcohol detox? A sudden cessation of alcohol use really shocks a body and mind accustomed to the regular effects of the drug, and the withdrawal symptoms that will ensue soon after cessation are uncomfortable and can even be dangerous. Some of the symptoms of alcohol detox include shakiness, anxiety, nausea, hallucinations, convulsions, delirium tremens and heart failure-death. Why do we experience detox symptoms? With regular consumption of alcohol, the brain physically changes as a responsive mechanism. Alcohol is a whole brain depressant, and works particularly through GABA (a neurotransmitter). Alcohol depresses (lessens the activity) of this transmitter, and to compensate the brain becomes more sensitive to the small amounts that remain active. With a sudden cessation of use there is nothing inhibiting the neurotransmitter, and since the brain is overly sensitive to its effects, a normal release of GABA sends the brain into overdrive. GABA excites or quickens activity in the brain, and this brain excitement is what is causing many of the experienced symptoms of withdrawal from alcohol. What is the treatment for alcohol detox? No one who has been drinking heavily or drinking for a very long time should attempt to detox off of alcohol without professional medical supervision. Under medical observation, alcohol dependent people will be given small stabilizing doses of benzodiazepine like drugs to slow the brain down to a safe level through the initial risk period of detox. Medical personnel may use additional medications to alleviate some of the discomfort of the detox. Detox is very safe with medical involvement, and very dangerous without it. The worst of the detox symptoms will pass within a couple of days, although long term withdrawal symptoms will continue for months. Are you cured after alcohol detox? Although after a successful alcohol detox an alcoholic may no longer be physically dependent on alcohol, without additional therapy there is very little probability that anyone will maintain abstinence. The reasons why someone drinks have not changed simply because they have endured detox, the cravings to drink remain strong, and they have learned no strategies to strengthen their resolve against relapse. Detox is a necessary first step to recovery and treatment, but it should never be an only step. After detox, further treatment can continue on an in or outpatient basis, and will likely include group therapies, individual counseling, 12 steps programs, education and other programming. Alcohol detox…not too bad if treated I've been through alcohol detox, and it's nothing like an opiate detox; and worry about the pains of alcohol withdrawal should never deter anyone from getting help. Although it is not nearly as uncomfortable as opiate detox, it is far more dangerous, and you should never try to detox without consulting with a medical professional. The real cost of drug rehab about interventions executive rehab Alcohol Detox Facts Detox Blog vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting The costs of drug rehab. How to pay for drug rehab without insurance. What is sober living housing...a safe place to stay after rehab. Comments Loading... Go to last comment Barbara 2 years ago I have called a facilty, and going in tomorrow morning for DETOX (alcohol)...little nervous/scared of unknown now,BUT I am so excited to start my life over without alcohol...maybe that is what is scary, it has been a long time since alcohol was not in charge, now It's gonna be me!!! Amy 2 years ago You forgot to mention the main reason for administering the benzos (such as Librium) is to lessen the chance of SEIZURES, which is a main concern during an alcoholic's detox period.  Thanks. P.S.  Having detoxed myself WAY too many times, I can say it's not as bad as you think... trust me.  Once you have detoxed your brain magically defogs a bit and you feel soooooo much better.  Especially in comparison with the horrendous hangovers and the feeling that you were hit over the head with a hammer!  PLEASE detox safely, and do it NOW! Spyder 15 months ago I need detox.  Almost didn't survive last night's drinking.  I have no money, I that a problem? Dangthang 15 months ago Spyder Me too. I wish us both luck and good health in the future LANN 15 months ago my question to those commenting is how much are you drinking. I am being pressured to go through AA and possibly DETOX but i am curious of how much drinking requires DETOX? educated dude 13 months ago This article is dangerous.  alcohol in long term alcoholics is stored in their organs . When they stop drinking, the alcohol and another  chemical is released into the blood stream and can cause far more side effects , even death in some rare cases, than are listed here. Shelly 8 months ago My brother did all the above today and is now in the best hands at the hospital.  Lost my Dad to alcohol, he was 49 and now my 49year old brother is battling the same thing. If you are drinking the hard stuff, and you love life, get help.  Life sucks sometimes, but if you are giving the chance for another day, consider the possibilities of what you could do on another day, even if you don't, planning to do something can sometimes be the fun of it.  God Bless you for reading my message. torigirl 8 months ago My twin sister and i are going through detox it is very hard , i didn't think i was an alcoholic until i realized i was drinking everyday after work ...Detoxing has affected my brain so much so i have terrible anxiety :( But i know once it is over i will be much happier ... God bless all of you ,im glad to know im not alone in my struggle!!! p.s. my twin is doing very well also she is my strength we are blessed to have each other Surjit 8 months ago It is all in the mind,the need to detox has to come from your heart that you really want to leave. While it is always good to seek advice from your physician to control side effects of detoxification at your own, the control on urge has to be mental rather than a physical. This day, I'been am off drinking for more than a month, after being a fairly regular drinker for a couple of years. I decided and I left, I feel physically good(Though not so good in the evenings, at times, which was my usual time at which I used to look up to my drinking after a day's work) mentally good, mornings are good,work is good, wife and chidren feel good too and on top of it all,I too feel good. Appetite has imporved, sleep has improved, it is good  for my finances as well. Where it hurts a bit is that the drinking buddies are nowhere. I am looking forward to controlled drinking with them,which I will call a responsible and healthy drinking, after this self imposed drinking ban of 40 days. Wishing you all, all the best. dangerous 7 months ago controlled drinking i wish once you have crossed the line you cant do controlled anymore and if you can good luck to you it is in the mind of course but not the fundamental urge if detoxifying your body is so easy let me know your tips because i have tried every avenue to hold on to my drinking and drug swapping with no avail good luck pal myheartisbroken 5 months ago Reading these comments is so hard for me right now but i wish you all the best and hope you can all begin to live a happy life. Sadley my sister was laid to rest on monday, she had been out of detox for just a week. There was no alchol found in her system at all, she told us that the first 3 days in hospital were the worst days of her life, my sister had only been drinking for less than a year and i thought it was long term drinkers that had problems.... how wrong i was so i can say now there is no such thing as an alcholic being able to detox then drink in a " controlled " situation, and it can not be done with will power either you really do need to detox in a safe controlled enviroment were treatment and help is on hand, then you will still get help for as long as it takes (years if nessesary) to get free of these demons that keep trying to get into your brain, my beautiful sister got through detox and in the week she left hospital had not touched a single drop yet she died now we are a familly torn and devestated, please seek help the right way ignor peoples comments that you can do it alone with will power, i pray you all do get your lives back and your familly will never have to go through what we are going through now, i just want my sister back.... X X X Phil in Blackpool 4 months ago My brother has been depressed for 2 yrs, he didnt want to eat and suddenly turned yellow, and has a swollen tummy, this site made me recognise his symtoms and he was rushed into hospital. I now hope and pray he pulls through and he hasnt done irriversable damage. May God please bless him with a second chance. danny in yorkshire 3 months ago ive been drinking on a night time for 16 years and constantly used the excuse that ive worked hard so i deserve a drink. But woke up to see what ive become, a dad that puts my family through its paces, added pressure on my kids and missus, and above all a horrible person to live with. My mood swings make our house a landmine site. along with severe paranoia through smoking cannabis for the same length of time im finding it so hard to stop as theyve come hand in hand with each other for so many years. only been a few days now but im going to beat this addiction but a  bit worried about how bad the withdrawal of both. jessica kerr 3 months ago i have been told i have alcholic chirosis of the liver and ,drink from 5 am to 2;am im 21 and  feel like my life is over ,im so scared of stopping becauce i start having fits even when i take librium in genral hospital. i keep going to genral hospital and beeing put on a ward ,but i always run out becauase the medication dosent stop my schakes and i panic,i really want to do a detox but i dont no if i can trust them to stop me havig a fit, im really scared! John 2 weeks ago Hi lve been drinking and doing.      Spliffs for 23y lost everything so my advice wod be just stop and get your live back Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 83 recovering addict 218 Followers 93 Hubs Joined 4 years ago Read more Hubs by recovering addict Related Hubs Alcohol Withdrawal; How Serious Are Your Symptoms? Do You... by recovering addict The Symptoms of Alcoholic Hepatitis, Nausea, Fatigue,... by recovering addict Essentials of an Effective Alcohol Detox Diet: What to Eat by bethparker Alcohol Detox by Recovery Guy Action in Alcohol Detox Facilities by theguru-reports Alcohol Detox Therapists by jackburton Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. te