X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Seattle Acupuncture with Lynn Weinberg Acupuncture in Seattle What is Acupuncture? Acupuncture 
              is a system of medicine that accesses the body's vital energy, or 
              qi (pronounced "chee"). If you picture a river flowing, 
              and imagine the river in different seasons and different conditions, 
              you begin to get an idea of how qi flows through the body; sometimes 
              it is bounding out of its banks, sometimes it's a trickle, sometimes 
              it's completely obstructed, sometimes it is tranquil  Each 
              person is an ecosystem containing these qi rivers, or meridians. 
              Acupuncture balances and harmonizes the body's energies and functions 
              by working with the meridians, so that the individual is healthy 
              and life flows smoothly. How does 
              Acupuncture treat a Disease or Illness? Acupuncture works by treating the individual's energetic systems, 
              and by accessing and influencing the meridians, via hair-thin sterile 
              needles. It is a complex system of medicine that has been in use 
              for almost three thousand years. Even if you have a western diagnosis 
              for your situation, Oriental Medicine has its own diagnostic system 
              that can address most health problems. It often works very well, 
              and often for problems that have resisted other types of treatment. 
              It can be a powerful complement to other types of care, and more 
              and more often, acupuncturists are working alongside MD's, naturopaths, 
              chiropractors, and other health care practitioners. Like any medicine, 
              Oriental Medicine has its own theories, and its own strengths. It 
              is not a substitute for care by your physician. What Oriental Medicine treats The World Health Organization recognizes acupuncture's ability to 
              treat the following problems: Respiratory allergies asthma colds/flu coughs emphysema sinusitis Musculoskeletal arthritis carpal tunnel syndrome chronic and acute pain migraines sciatica sports injuries strains/sprains trauma Gynecological infertility maternity menopause menstrual problems PMS Emotional anxiety depression mood swings stress Nervous dizziness fatigue insomnia stroke rehabilitation Gastrointestinal appetite disorders chronic diarrhea constipation food allergies gas/bloating indigestion peptic ulcer Urogenital herpes sexual dysfunction stress incontinence urinary tract infections Circulatory anemia angina pectoris arteriosclerosis hypertension Home | About 
              Lynn | Acupuncture | Chinese 
              Herbs | F.A.Q. | Contact © 2008 Lynn Weinberg A