Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 21 Sep 2011 01:14:59 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "fad3e0e1fb77cc1:242"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub

Acupuncture|Dr. Rivers Every Dog Has... Paws-Abilities "A community center for dogs and their people" toll-free (800) 730-3794 |  7338 26th Street E. Fife WA 98424 Home Health and Fitness Practitioners Grooming Community Activities Wants and Needs Store Acupuncture 
			For Pets Eugene 
			Rivers, DVM, FAVD, cVMA Modern Veterinary Acupuncture is the 
			stimulation of points on the body that have a desired physiological 
			effect called neuromodulation. It is often used in conjunction with conventional treatment 
			and is not a replacement for normal veterinary care. Common reasons to perform acupuncture on a pet are to augment 
			conventional treatment, if conventional medical treatment is not 
			working or when conventional treatment is having undesired side 
			effects, or when surgery is not an option. A few conditions that are treated with acupuncture in pets are: Arthritis Hip or elbow dysplasia Stifle injurues including ACL injuries Degenerative disc disease Soft tissue injuries such as sprains Traumatic nerve injuries Chronic diarrhea or constipation Epilepsy Respiratory problems, asthma Lick granulomas Nausea and vomiting Anorexia and poor appetite Urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence Post-operative pain Swimmers tail Veterinary 
			acupuncture services are performed after an initial examination and 
			assessment by the doctor. We will work with your family veterinarian to provide 
			coordinated care and treatment. Call 253-682-9841 to schedule your pet’s Acupuncture 
			treatment with Dr. Rivers . Quick Links A cupuncture Massage Therapy Laser 
				Therapy Rehabilitation Chiropractic Reike Wants & Needs Store Shopping Cart Find Us Home | About Us | Calendar | Contact | Total K-9 | Support Dogs For Independence | Enroll Now | Employment | FAQ | Awards | P ress | T estimonials | Promotions | Site Map Thanks to Sandy Birdsall and Amy Brever for their help in 
		"motivati