
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 13:22:18 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian)
Vary: negotiate,Accept-Encoding
TCN: choice
P3P: CP="CAO DSP COR CURa ADMa DEVa OUR IND PHY ONL UNI COM NAV INT DEM PRE"
srvr: web06
Cache-Control: no-store, private, no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Newsvine - Study: Try Honey for Children's Coughs Search: Tags Full Text Users Type Comments Since You Last Checked Article Source Last Checked Advertise | AdChoices Log In | Register Existing users log in below. New users please register for a free account. New Users: Existing Users: E-Mail: Password: Forgot Password? Please enter the e-mail address or domain name you registered with: E-Mail/Domain: Back to Login Log Out Top News Local News World U.S. Sports Politics Tech Entertainment Science Business Health Odd News More Arts Education Environment Fashion History Home & Garden Not News Religion Travel Updated continuously by citizens like you, Newsvine is an instant reflection of what the world is talking about at any given moment. Your Clippings Leaderboard E-Mail Alerts Top of the Vine Newsvine Live Newsvine Archives The Greenhouse Recommended Articles Wall of Vineness 4 Votes 4 Comments Print Study: Try Honey for Children's Coughs Mon Dec 3, 2007 4:08 PM EST health , for , honey , cough Carla K. Johnson, Associated Press Advertise | AdChoices CHICAGO — A teaspoon of honey before bed seems to calm children's coughs and help them sleep better, according to a new study that relied on parents' reports of their children's symptoms. The folk remedy did better than cough medicine or no treatment in a three-way comparison. Honey may work by coating and soothing an irritated throat, the study authors said. "Many families are going to relate to these findings and say that grandma was right," said lead author Dr. Ian Paul of Pennsylvania State University's College of Medicine. The research appears in December's Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine Federal health advisers have recently warned that over-the-counter cough and cold medicines shouldn't be used in children younger than 6, and manufacturers are taking some products for babies off the market. Three pediatricians who read the study said they would tell parents seeking alternative remedies to try honey. They noted that honey should not be given to children under age 1 because of a rare but serious risk of botulism. For the study, researchers recruited 105 children with upper respiratory infections from a clinic in Pennsylvania. Parents were given a paper bag with a dosing device inside. Some were empty. Some contained an age-appropriate dose of honey-flavored cough medicine containing dextromethorphan. And some contained a similar dose of honey. The parents were asked about their children's sleep and cough symptoms, once before the bedtime treatment and once after. They rated the symptoms on a seven-point scale. All of the children got better, but honey consistently scored best in parents' rating of their children's cough symptoms. "Give them a little time and they'll get better," said Pat Jackson Allen, a professor at Yale University School of Nursing. The study was funded by a grant from the National Honey Board, an industry-funded agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The agency had no influence over the study design, data or results, Paul said. ___ On the Net: Archives: http://www.archpediatrics.com © 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. 4 Votes Enjoy this article?  Help vote it up the 'Vine. Back To Top | Front Page Published to: Carla K. Johnson's Column , All of Newsvine Groups: none Regions: United States , Chicago Public Discussion (4) kiml When I was young I was given warm milk and honey for my cold and cough. It worked! #1 - Mon Dec 3, 2007 7:37 PM EST Restso Maybe it's not the honey or the cough medicine, but the act of the parent giving whatever it is to the child... ah the placebo effect, we hardly know ye. 1 vote #2 - Tue Dec 4, 2007 12:16 PM EST breelaboy Deleted brianalampton Deleted Leave a Comment: Name: Email Address (will be verified, but never shown) : You're in Easy Mode. If you prefer, you can use XHTML Mode instead . You're in XHTML Mode. If you prefer, you can use Easy Mode instead . (XHTML tags allowed - a,b,blockquote,br,code,dd,dl,dt,del,em,h2,h3,h4,i,ins,li,ol,p,pre,q,strong,ul) Newsvine Privacy Statement As a new user, you may notice a few temporary content restrictions. Click here for more info . FUN STUFF: Leaderboard | E-Mail Alerts | Top of the Vine | Newsvine Live | Newsvine Archives | The Greenhouse | COMPANY STUFF: Code of Honor | Company Info | Contact Us | Jobs | User Agreement | Privacy Policy | About our ads LEGAL STUFF: © 2005-2012 Newsvine, Inc. | Newsvine® is a regist