
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 11:52:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Leg Cramps ADD ARTICLE • MODIFY ARTICLE • NEW ARTICLES • COOL ARTICLES • TOP RATED • SEARCH PUBLISHER INFO • AUTHOR INFO • EDITOR INFO Looking for something in particular? More search options Bones, Joints, Muscles: Leg Cramps Previous Next Leg Cramps by: devika A leg cramp is a pain that comes from a leg muscle. It is due to a muscle spasm which is when a muscle contracts too hard. It usually occurs in a calf muscle, below and behind a knee. The small muscles of the feet are sometimes affected. A cramp pain typically lasts a few minutes. In some cases it lasts just seconds, but in some cases it lasts up to 10 minutes. The severity of the pain varies. The muscle may remain tender for up to 24 hours after a leg cramp. Leg cramps usually occur when you are resting - most commonly at night when in bed. (They are often called night cramps.) They may wake you. It can become a distressing condition if your sleep is regularly disturbed. Leg cramps symptoms: 1. Severe leg pain 2. Muscle tenderness 3. Inability to move the leg Causes of Leg Cramps: 1. Dehydration 2. Rigorous exercises 3. Muscle fatigue due to overexertion 4. Over weight 5. fluid imbalances 6. Diminished blood supply 7. Nerve abnormalities Home Remedies for Leg Cramps: 1.A glass of lukewarm milk before going to bed is a simple, yet effective way to treat the leg cramps. 2.Prepare chamomile tea and have it at least 5 times a day, for about 2 weeks. For every cup of water, take two or three teaspoons of chamomile flower. Bring the water to a boil and let the flower steep in it for a few minutes. Strain, add sugar or honey, and drink warm. 3.A hot shower before going to bed is effective in curing leg cramps. Pour some hot water on the painful area as well. 4.While you are on bed, stretch the legs as far as you can and keep it in the same position for half an hour. While standing, push your heel onto the floor and bend your toes upwards. This is a good way to treat leg cramps. 5.For people who often face the problem of leg cramps, press your toes against the wall and stretch the calf muscles. Repeat this 15-20 times. 6.A cup of red raspberry leaf tea, consumed in the morning and evening, is good for relieving a person suffering from leg cramps. Bring a cup of water to a boil and add a tsp red raspberry tea to it. Let it steep for a few minutes, strain and drink when still warm. 7.Mix one tbsp of calcium lactate, one tsp of apple cider vinegar and one tsp of honey in half a glass of lukewarm water. Have this once a day. It will be helpful in treating leg cramps. 8.Massaging the affected area with essential oils, like lavender oil and rosemary oil and eucalyptus oil. After massaging, wrap the affected area with a towel dipped in hot water. 9.Take 1 raw clove of garlic every day. This clove can be fried in ghee (clarified butter) or castor oil. Take for 2 months. 10.Drink a cup of papaya seed tea six or seven times daily for two or three weeks for relief from joint pain. Vitamin and Mineral Therapy: To prevent leg cramps take a daily vitamin E supplement of 400 international units. If the Vitamin E alone doesnt stop them try adding 500-1000 milligrams of calcium and up to 1000 milligrams of magnesium daily. Preventive Measures: Dehydration causes leg cramps. It is especially important to stay well hydrated during workouts. Drink plenty of fluids before, during and after exercising. Stretching prior to starting your exercise routine is extremely important. Stretches help relax muscles and thus prevent leg cramps. When beginning a workout regime, it is imperative that you do so gradually. A sudden increase or changes in physical activity levels can cause leg cramps. Keep rolled up bed sheets or blankets at your feet to prevent your toes and feet from pointing downward while you are asleep.    Riding a stationary bicycle for a few minutes before bedtime could prevent cramps from developing during the night. Knowledge and Persistence leads to success
I have always been fascinated by the question ,why some people can and others cant. I spent years trying to figure this out. At first it was mainly for myself. I remember growing up with little confidence and under the impression that others were more capable than I was. The fact was that this impression was true. It was true because i believed it.
Reference: HealthOnclick To find other free health content see e-healtharticles.com Get HTML Code for your Site Below: (Publishers, you may need to add in paragraph tags on some articles.) Leg Cramps by: devika A leg cramp is a pain that comes from a leg muscle. It is due to a muscle spasm which is when a muscle contracts too hard. It usually occurs in a calf muscle, below and behind a knee. The small muscles of the feet are sometimes affected. A cramp pain typically lasts a few minutes. In some cases it lasts just seconds, but in some cases it lasts up to 10 minutes. The severity of the pain varies. The muscle may remain tender for up to 24 hours after a leg cramp. Leg cramps usually occur when you are resting - most commonly at night when in bed. (They are often called night cramps.) They may wake you. It can become a distressing condition if your sleep is regularly disturbed. Leg cramps symptoms: 1. Severe leg pain 2. Muscle tenderness 3. Inability to move the leg Causes of Leg Cramps: 1. Dehydration 2. Rigorous exercises 3. Muscle fatigue due to overexertion 4. Over weight 5. fluid imbalances 6. Diminished blood supply 7. Nerve abnormalities Home Remedies for Leg Cramps: 1.A glass of lukewarm milk before going to bed is a simple, yet effective way to treat the leg cramps. 2.Prepare chamomile tea and have it at least 5 times a day, for about 2 weeks. For every cup of water, take two or three teaspoons of chamomile flower. Bring the water to a boil and let the flower steep in it for a few minutes. Strain, add sugar or honey, and drink warm. 3.A hot shower before going to bed is effective in curing leg cramps. Pour some hot water on the painful area as well. 4.While you are on bed, stretch the legs as far as you can and keep it in the same position for half an hour. While standing, push your heel onto the floor and bend your toes upwards. This is a good way to treat leg cramps. 5.For people who often face the problem of leg cramps, press your toes against the wall and stretch the calf muscles. Repeat this 15-20 times. 6.A cup of red raspberry leaf tea, consumed in the morning and evening, is good for relieving a person suffering from leg cramps. Bring a cup of water to a boil and add a tsp red raspberry tea to it. Let it steep for a few minutes, strain and drink when still warm. 7.Mix one tbsp of calcium lactate, one tsp of apple cider vinegar and one tsp of honey in half a glass of lukewarm water. Have this once a day. It will be helpful in treating leg cramps. 8.Massaging the affected area with essential oils, like lavender oil and rosemary oil and eucalyptus oil. After massaging, wrap the affected area with a towel dipped in hot water. 9.Take 1 raw clove of garlic every day. This clove can be fried in ghee (clarified butter) or castor oil. Take for 2 months. 10.Drink a cup of papaya seed tea six or seven times daily for two or three weeks for relief from joint pain. Vitamin and Mineral Therapy: To prevent leg cramps take a daily vitamin E supplement of 400 international units. If the Vitamin E alone doesnt stop them try adding 500-1000 milligrams of calcium and up to 1000 milligrams of magnesium daily. Preventive Measures: Dehydration causes leg cramps. It is especially important to stay well hydrated during workouts. Drink plenty of fluids before, during and after exercising. Stretching prior to starting your exercise routine is extremely important. Stretches help relax muscles and thus prevent leg cramps. When beginning a workout regime, it is imperative that you do so gradually. A sudden increase or changes in physical activity levels can cause leg cramps. Keep rolled up bed sheets or blankets at your feet to prevent your toes and feet from pointing downward while you are asleep.    Riding a stationary bicycle for a few minutes before bedtime could prevent cramps from developing during the night. Knowledge and Persistence leads to success
I have always been fascinated by the question ,why some people can and others cant. I spent years trying to figure this out. At first it was mainly for myself. I remember growing up with little confidence and under the impression that others were more capable than I was. The fact was that this impression was true. It was true because i believed it.
Reference: HealthOnclick To find other free health content see e-healtharticles.com Submitted by: devika (Added: Wed Feb 18 2009 Hits: 1588 Downloads: 0  Rating: 0.00 Votes: 0) Rate It Review It e-HealthcareSolutions: Get healthcare advertising information. e-HealthLinks: List your health site. CME-Directory: List or find a CME course. e-HealthWire: Submit your health-related press release. e-He