Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Circumcision rates rise for some T HE C IRCUMCISION N EWS L IBRARY SYDNEY MORNING HERALD, Sydney, NSW, Australia, July 1,
    2004. Circumcision rates rise for some By Judy Skatssoon July 1, 2004 Saying no to the snip: Marie Jacobs, who is
                  expecting a boy. Photo: Natalie Boog For a little tube of skin at the end of a penis, the
            foreskin raises some mighty passionate emotions. There now are signs that circumcision, unfashionable
            among an entire generation of Australian males, is
            coming back into vogue. Marie Jacobs is expecting a baby in September and
            knows from an ultrasound that it's a boy. Jacobs, a
            public affairs officer from Balmain, says her son will
            not be circumcised. "It's probably painful for the baby
            for a start and I've never thought it necessary," she
            says. She would need to be convinced that circumcision
            offered significant health benefits before
            reconsidering her position. Jacobs and her husband represent the majority of
            Australian parents who say no to the snip. But Medicare
            figures show evidence of a pro-circumcision backlash
            for the first time in a decade. The latest statistics show a 10 per cent increase in
            circumcisions performed in Australia between 1994 and
            2003. In 1994 just under 20,000 procedures were
            recorded, increasing to 20,200 in 2000 and 22,000 in
            2003. Other research, now under consideration for
            publication in the Medical Journal of Australia ,
            cites an increase in the incidence of circumcision from
            10.6 per cent in 1993 to 12.9 per cent for the year to
            date. The research, by the director of Circumcision Information Australia ,
            Shane Peterson, reveals a significant disparity between
            states. The most circumcisions occurred in Queensland (19.3
            per cent), NSW (16.3 per cent) and South Australia
            (14.3 per cent) and the lowest rate was in Tasmania
            (1.6 per cent). The figures do not provide a breakdown of how many
            Jewish or Muslim boys are included in the statistics,
            although it has been suggested the rise may reflect an
            increase in Australia's Muslim community. Circumcision critics say it is painful, sexually and
            psychologically harmful and unnecessary. They say
            removing the foreskin diminishes sexual sensitivity and
            can even lead to post-traumatic stress syndrome. But
            the pro-circumcision camp says it protects against a
            range of medical problems including HIV and cervical
            cancer, and should be performed on all baby boys. Canberra historian Roger Darby has spent four years
            researching the history of circumcision in Britain and
            Australia. His book on the topic is due to be published
            next year. He says circumcisions were first performed in
            Australia in the 1890s. About this time it became a
            routine medical procedure for the first time in
            English-speaking countries, used to prevent a range of
            ills, including masturbation, rheumatism and
            alcoholism. During the world wars it was advocated for
            personal hygiene and the prevention of sexually
            transmitted diseases. By the 1930s, most Australian boys underwent the
            procedure, and during the 1950s and 1960s about 90 per
            cent of boys were being cut, Darby estimates. Separate figures suggest circumcision fell from 50
            per cent in 1974 to 24 per cent in 1983 and 10 to 15
            per cent by the mid 1990s. Darby says the increase since then has occurred
            mainly in NSW and Queensland. He puts the trend down to
            "propaganda" and community fear driven by a small
            number of advocates in those states. "I started doing research on this when it was my
            impression that circumcision is one of those dead dogs
            like frontal lobotomy," he says. "I'm absolutely
            astonished that in the last few years there's been all
            this stuff being whipped up, all these weird
            19th-century ideas are being revived." One of those ideas is that circumcision prevents
            sexually transmitted disease. Melbourne HIV/AIDS specialist Professor Roger Short
            presented research at a Fertility Society Conference
            last November showing male circumcision reduced the
            incidence of HIV/AIDS in men and cut the risk of
            cervical cancer in women. According to Short, the inner part of the foreskin
            is rich in cells containing specific receptors for the
            virus but lacks the protective keratin "coating" found
            elsewhere on the penis. He said the research provided a
            compelling reason for Australia to rethink its
            opposition to the practice. His theory was backed with the publication in March
            this year of a United States paper in The Lancet reporting that circumcision protected against AIDS
            because the foreskin was enriched with HIV
            target-cells. The study of almost 3000 Indian men by researchers
            from Johns Hopkins University found that circumcised
            men were less susceptible to HIV than their
            non-circumcised counterparts. Critics say the research
            is flawed because of the study's demographic and say
            there is no scientific evidence showing circumcision
            prevents HIV or other STDs in modern western
            societies. Professor Brian Morris, of Sydney University, says
            the recent increase in circumcisions is a response to
            the "avalanche of medical information" showing its
            benefits. He advocates universal circumcision and has no doubt
            Australia is set to return to the high circumcision
            rates of 40 years ago. He says urinary tract infections are 12-fold higher
            in uncircumcised infants and non-circumcision is also
            associated with a higher risk of penile cancer and
            cervical cancer, which are caused by the sexually
            transmitted disease human papilloma virus or HPV. Other benefits include prevention of phimosis (a
            condition where the foreskin does not retract) and even
            a complication of diabetes. However, the weight of Australia's medical
            establishment remains opposed to circumcision. The Royal Australasian College of
            Physicians and the Australasian Association of Paediatric
            Surgeons officially say there is no reason to
            routinely circumcise boys. The spectre of parents, hospitals and doctors being
            sued by men who were circumcised as babies was raised
            in the American [Errata: should be Australian ] Journal of Law and Medicine in 2000. The authors, including Queensland psychologist Gregory Boyle , say circumcision
            should be considered an assault. The paper declared legal action was "long overdue" in
            Australia. Meanwhile, there has been a marked rise in medically
            indicated circumcision to treat phimosis in boys under
            five. A recent West Australian study reviewed
            circumcision in the state's hospitals between 1981 and
            1999, and also found a 70 per cent increase in
            circumcision for phimosis in boys aged 10-14. Author Katrina Spilsbury says that based
            on her figures, seven times more boys would be
            circumcised for phimosis by the time they were 15 than
            had it. Melbourne pediatric surgeon Dr Paddy Dewan says the research
            implies a "high rate of unnecessary surgery" and could
            reflect a situation where parents and GPs feel they
            have to come up with a medical excuse in the current
            climate. Dewan adds that hygiene could become a problem in
            uncircumcised boys if circumcised men were raising
            intact sons. "There is a barrier, with the father
            saying, ' I don't
            know what to do with it '." Citation: Judy Skatssoon. Circumcision rates rise for some. Sydney Morning Herald , Sydney, NSW, Australia, 1 July
      2004. (File revised 20 Fe