Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - Research - Asthma 5 Acupuncture.Com - Gateway to Chinese Medicine, Health and Wellness Store PATIENTS Conditions A-Z Acupuncture Clinic Find an Acupuncturist Herbal Remedies Diet & Nutrition Chi Gong &Tai Chi Chinese Medicine Basics Patient Testimonials Animal Acupuncture Store PRACTITIONERS/STUDENTS Syndromes A-Z AcuPoint Locator Herbology Practice Building CEUs/Events Employment Study Acupuncture Acupuncture Schools Research TCM Library Laws & Regulations Practitioner Links Practitioner Store MORE Points Newsletter Catalog Requests Contact Us About Acupuncture.Com Privacy Policy ANNOUNCEMENTS Acupuncture.Com accepts article contributions. Email 

							submissions to contact@acupuncture.com FIND AN ACUPUNCTURIST Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice Subscribe Keep informed on current news in the world of 

							Traditional Chinese Medicine. Home > Research > Asthma FDA, Asthma and Acupuncture By Lai X. An article in the American Medical Association Newspaper 3/6/95 from the Associated Press reported that the FDA is weighing acupuncture's effectiveness in the treatment of asthma.  Kim Jobst, M.D. of Oxford University wrote in an article for the Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine that the use of Acupuncture as an aid in respiratory ailments might be safer than the prolonged use of drugs.  The article reports that at the request of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Jobst collected all the research on chronic lung diseases treated by acupuncture.  From 16 studies, many of which were flawed, he says that acupuncture showed signs of being effective in 62% of cases.  This means fewer attacks and fewer doses of drugs. Acupuncture was used in a control against "Sham" acupuncture which means needling points which are not classical acupuncture points.  There is disagreement if this is really non-effectual.  When Dr. Jobst re-evaluated the "Sham" treatment he says 80% of the research shows acupuncture may work.  The NIH has reportedly began funding $2.5 Million in acupuncture research.  The FDA has Dr. Jobst's research and was used in the forum on needle approval this summer. Featured Products Wheezing Formula Calms 
								Asthma & Stops Wheezing Lung Congestion Loosens 
								Phlegm & Stops Cough Perpetual 
                                Shield Immune Booster Strengthen 
                                the Body with Immune-Enhancing Chinese Herbs Allergy 
                                Tamer Elixir Tame Your Allergies All Year Round Self-Healing 
								Chi Gong Strengthen 
								& Balance the Mind and Body More Featured Products All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All 
		rights reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school referral services 
		provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website is subject to our Terms and 
		Conditions . All logos, service 