
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 03:57:46 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:57:46 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
X-Pad: avoid browser bug

Traction for Lower Back and Neck Pain - What is Spinal Traction? About.com Health Back & Neck Pain Back & Neck Pain Search Back & Neck Pain Symptoms-Conditions Treatment Manage Pain Share Free Back & Neck Pain Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum What is Spinal Traction? By Anne Asher , About.com Guide Updated July 04, 2008 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: physical therapy rehab back pain treatments neck pain treatments conservative treatment Question: What is Spinal Traction? Answer: Traction is a modality (treatment activity) sometimes given by physical therapists, chiropractors and other spine specialists to their patients.  The purpose of traction is to apply a force that draws two adjacent bones apart from each other in order to increase their shared joint space.  Traction also stretches the soft tissue that surrounds the joint. Traction may be given manually, by means of a device or via positioning. In the spine, the elongation provided by traction allows facet joints to slide , increases circulation and relieves pressure on the spinal cord , its blood vessels and nerve roots . Traction is sometimes given to people with spinal stenosis , as it helps to make space around the compressed spinal cord.  In any case, the improved circulation has an added, indirect benefit of decreasing chemicals in damaged tissues brought about by inflammation .    The movement at the joints may also contribute to the decrease of nervous excitability, which is another source of pain. Traction may be given continuously for up to 10 minutes at a time or intermittently for up to 15 minutes.  When weights are used in providing the force, the practitioner will start light and, over time, move up to 15 pounds. This experience is meant to provide relaxation to the patient, rather than more tension. Although many people can attest to the fact that traction on the spine feels good, a 2005 review of medical literature by the Cochrane Back Group found that, by itself, traction really isn't effective for lower back pain.  After looking at 25 high-quality studies, which investigated a total of more than 1,000 traction patients, researchers concluded that if you are using traction as the only treatment, there's really no difference in results between it and placebo. For certain types of neck problems, though, the use of traction is alive and well in clinical settings, as a complement to other treatment measures. Sources: Kendall, F.P., McCreary, E., Provance, P.G, Muscles: Testing and Function with Posture and Pain. 4th Edition.  Williams & Wilkins.  1993.  Baltimore, MD. Kinser, C., Colby, L.A., Therapeutic Exercise: Foundations and Techniques. 4th Edition. F.A. Davis Company. Philadelphia, PA.  2002. Clarke, J.A., van Tulder, M.W., Blomberg, S.E.I., deVet, H.C.W., van der Heijden, G.J.M.G., Bronfort, G., Bouter, L.M., Traction for low-back pain with or without sciatica.  The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007, Issue 1. Art No: CD003010. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003010.pub4. Braddock E, Greenlee J, Hammer RE, Johnson SF, Martello MJ, O'Connell MR, Rinzler R, Snider M, Swanson MR, Tain L, Walsh G. Manual medicine guidelines for musculoskeletal injuries. California: Academy for Chiropractic Education; 2007 Apr Traction - Related Info Spine Doctors Is Chiropractic for You? Nerve Roots Traction - More Info The Intervertebral Disk The Facet Joint (picture) Myelopathy Traction - More Terms Inflammation Scar Tissue Facet Joint Syndrome Related Articles Intervertebral Joint - Defintion of Intervertebral Joint Continue to Question How You Spend Your Time and Money - Living with Breast... Use a Timer - New Nurse If You Didn't Chart It, You Didn't Do It - New Nurse 50 - The Tenant of Wildfell Hall - Anne Bronte (1820-1849) Anne Asher Back & Neck Pain Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches facet joints modality treatment nerve roots spinal stenosis indirect benefit lower back pain Explore Back & Neck Pain Must Reads What is Wrong with My Back? Identify Your Back Pain Back  Pain Treatments Back Doctors Manage Your Pain Most Popular Meningitis Awareness Quiz Many Different Specialties Rule out Meningitis What Is a "Crick in the Neck"? Neck Injuries See More About: physical therapy rehab back pain treatments neck pain treatments conservative treatment By Category Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Back - Neck Injury Back and Neck Surgery Medications Conditions of the Spine Doctors Back Exercises Prevention Diagnosis General Health Chronic Back - Neck Pain Pain Management Posture Back & Neck Pain About.com Health Back & Neck Pain Pain Management Traction for Lower Back and Neck Pain - What is Spinal Traction? Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod