
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 14:37:28 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Honey: does it heal?  | Honey: does it heal? Reviews at Al-Hikmah.org Alternative Health Herb Drug Interaction Herbs & Supplements Medical Conditions Sexual Well Being Women's Health Arginine | Bromelain | Carnitine | Chitosan | Creatine | Flaxseed Oil | Glucosamine | Inositol | Kudzu | Niacin | Omega 3 | Policosanol | Spirulina | Yohimbe Honey: does it heal? by Charles Downey Honey: does it heal— Honey may have healing qualities. A British teenager developed a blood infection so severe that both of his legs 
and some of his fingers had to be amputated. During the next six months, he endured many painful skin grafts, developed 
terrible staphylococcal infections, and suffered horribly when his bandages were 
changed. The nurses tried everything to lessen his agony, including changing his 
dressings in the bath and giving him nitrous oxide for the pain. Nothing helped. "It felt like they were ripping my skin off," he said. When nothing else worked against the chronically infected sores, nurse Cheryl 
Dunford and her colleagues turned to Manuka honey from New Zealand. To start, 
they smeared sterilized Manuka on one set of dressings while the other leg was 
covered with a traditional dressing. Within a few days, the honey-dressed leg 
had a reduced bacterial count. The nurses then used the Manuka honey on the 
dressings of both legs. The teens lesions and wounds all healed within 10 
weeks. Antibacterial properties This case, reported in the April 6, 2000 issue of Nursing Times, was not the 
first to report that Manuka honey may be able to curb infection. According to Peter Molan, professor of biochemistry at Waikato University in New 
Zealand, Manuka honey has remarkable antibacterial properties. Professor Molan 
has researched honey for two decades and heads up the universitys Honey 
Research Unit. "Manuka honey is made by bees that swarm onto one type of bush found in New 
Zealand and Australia," says Professor Molan. "Because Manuka is so effective 
against terrible infections, were sure this honey contains an 
as-yet-unidentified antimicrobial agent." Commercially known as MediHoney, the sweet stuff has been approved by the 
Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia and by Medsafe in New Zealand 
(those countries equivalents of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration). Ancient uses While Manuka honey seems to be more powerful than other types of honey, 
ancient peoples would only yawn if you told them honey is being used in 
medicine. According to John Riddle, professor of ancient science at North Carolina State 
University, a medical text written on papyrus from 3000 years B.C. specifies the 
use of honey for head wounds. He says that perhaps "the honey helped prevent 
swelling and sealed off the wound to keep air and infection out." Hippocrates, the Greek physician, also praised honeys healing powers and came 
up with many honey-based treatments for ailments such as skin disorders, ulcers 
and sores. In World War I, German physicians used a mixture of honey and cod 
liver oil to treat gunshot wounds. But with the advent of modern antibiotics in 
World War II, honey fell from favor among physicians. Why may honey stop infection? Ordinary honey ties up water so that bacteria in a wound have insufficient 
water to multiply. The water activity of honey inhibits bacterial growth, and 
the pH of honey is between 3.2 and 4.5—low enough to inhibit the growth of many 
common bacteria.The major antibacterial activity in honey, however, is thought 
to be due to hydrogen peroxide (much like the commercial product you purchase at 
the pharmacy), which is produced enzymatically. The level of hydrogen peroxide 
produced is antibacterial, but doesnt damage the tissues. Healing burns with honey In one Indian study of patients with burns, physicians compared ordinary 
honey with silver sulfadiazine—the standard treatment—and found it to be just as 
effective. In the study, 104 patients with partial-thickness burns were randomly 
assigned to receive one of the two treatments. Half the patients were treated 
with 15-30 mL honey spread on their wounds each day and then their burns were 
covered with dry sterile gauze.The other half of the patients received the 
standard treatment of gauze soaked with silver sulfadiazine, and the gauze was 
replaced daily.Among patients treated with honey, healthy tissue granulation 
appeared, on average, at 7.4 days, compared with 13.4 days for patients given 
the standard treatment. Wounds healed more rapidly in the honey group (33 of 52 
patients within 10 days and all patients within 40 days) compared with other 
group (35 of 52 patients within 30 days and all patients within 60 days).Only 
four honey-treated patients showed infection at the burn site after seven days 
of treatment, compared with 38 of the patients given the standard treatment. Honey for allergy relief? At the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, immunologist 
T.V. Rajan, MD, PhD, is studying the healing powers of simple honey to treat 
seasonal allergies. The study is based on the theory of oral tolerance, which 
reasons that humans become accustomed to things they ingest. So, if people eat 
local pollens—via pollen-rich honey—allergic reactions to pollen in the spring 
and summer should diminish. Study subjects receive either a tablespoon of local 
honey, non-local honey as a placebo, or their usual allergy medications. So far, 
Dr. Rajan is encouraged by the findings, although his results wont be released 
until 2001. Researchers at the University of Illinois reported in the Journal ofAgricultural 
Research in 1998 that antioxidants in 14 various honeys were highest in the 
darkest honeys (Manuka honey is very dark). Antioxidants in the diet are 
important because they slow the production of free radicals that cause DNA 
damage and have been implicated in age-related illnesses, such as arthritis, 
stroke and cancer. A sweet substitute "Honey also has a lot to offer as a replacement for table sugar," says May 
Berenbaum, PhD, head of the entomology department and a researcher at the 
University of Illinois Functional Foods for Health program. At the University of Memphis Exercise and Sport Nutrition Lab, Richard Kreider, 
PhD, did research that may sweeten the appeal of honey to athletes. "During the 
past three decades, athletes have used carbohydrate-loaded sports gels for 
quick energy," says Dr. Kreider. "But many [of those products] cause [a] quick 
rise and fall in blood sugar." While studying the blood glucose and insulin concentration in 71 subjects, Dr. 
Kreider gave the athletes one of seven substances, including table sugar, 
dextrose, fruit sugar, placebos and honey. Honey provided the quickest boost of 
energy for a longer endurance—without a big drop in blood sugar later. Should you try it? Will honey cure your allergies? Can you apply it on minor scrapes and burns 
rather than using antibacterial ointment? While existing research is intriguing, 
more information from research studies is needed to confirm the therapeutic uses 
of honey. So ask your health care practitioner about using honey for minor 
infections and allergies. One word of caution: Because honey contains spores that can cause 
botulism infection in infants, it should never be fed to children younger than 
one year old. Categories » Alternative Health » Herbs & Supplements » Drug Interaction » Medical Conditions » Medical Diagnosis » Disease & Injury » Man Health » Women's Health » Sexuality Featured Articles » Mesothelioma » Accutane » Ovarian Cyst » Dyspepsia » Biotin » Tailbone Fracture » Phlebitis » Kissing Disease » Calf Muscle Strain » Ulcers » Myringotomy » Hernia Repair » Flaxseed » Arginine » Brittle Nails » Fish Oil » Inositol » Antacids » Dialysis » Childbirth Vaginal » Liver Cirrhosis » Relieving Gas Home | Herbs & Supplements | Medical Conditions | Women's Health | Contact Us Copyright © 2004-2011 Al-Hikmah.org, All rights reserved. Disclaimer: Al-Hikmah.org is a website about health articles & topics and the   information provided on this website is intended for informational purposes only   and should not be construed as medical advice. Individuals wishing to  
    embark on   a supplement program, or engage in alternative medicine therapy, especially   those who have been diagnosed with health problems and who use prescribed   medication, should consult with their h