
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:00:56 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: Phusion Passenger (mod_rails/mod_rack) 2.2.15
ETag: "7b9242d95d9a5a111f33025611953120"
X-UA-Compatible: IE=Edge,chrome=1
X-Runtime: 0.480035
Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
Set-Cookie: _bellybelly_session=BAh7CCIQX2NzcmZfdG9rZW4iMVJhY2oyWW5mVVRkaUtGNDVkVmxja2JSVFpnSkpVV3hjU2Zta1NteENGMG89Ig9zZXNzaW9uX2lkIiVhNDM0MDNiZWEwODUwNTk3N2EzYzYzOGYzMjNlODFhNiITaGFzX3NlZW5fcG9wdXBU--e9d213c385a6ee66bd30b6502a72ff7adfdd3e31; path=/; HttpOnly
Status: 200
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Cache-Control: public
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Thrush During Pregnancy - Why You Are More Prone To Thrush Home Articles Forums Directory Competitions Pregnancy Tickers Search Subscribe Find a Doula Find a Midwife Tweet Thrush During Pregnancy – Why You Are More Prone To Thrush By
Kelly Winder BellyBelly Creator, Mum & Birth Attendant Conception Conception Articles Two Week Wait Diaries Pregnancy Pregnancy Articles Pregnancy Tickers Due Date Calculator Pregnancy Week by Week Birth Birth Articles Doulas Breastfeeding Breastfeeding Articles Breastfeeding Books Parenting Baby Baby Sleep Baby Starsigns Toddler & Pre-School School Age For Mum Health & Lifestyle Health & Lifestyle Articles Sex & Relationships Grandparents Men Recipes & Cooking Recipes Meal Planner Thrush During Pregnancy – Why You Are More Prone To Thrush Thrush during pregnancy is unfortunately more common than when you’re not pregnant. Want to know how thrush can be safely prevented and treated? Looking for natural thrush treatments you can use in pregnancy? Find out why thrush is more common during pregnancy and how you can stop it in it’s tracks. What is thrush and what causes it? What are the symptoms of thrush? How can I prevent thrush? What can I do to treat thrush? Can thrush affect my baby? What is Thrush and What Causes It? Candida albicans is the microscopic fungus which is responsible for thrush. While this organism ordinarily lives in the intestinal tract of men and women, nearly one out of three women have candida albicans present in their vagina. This can become a problem when its numbers outgrow the good bacteria – it’s a battle of the good bacteria with the bad bacteria and the side with the most ‘soldiers’ wins. During pregnancy, the vagina becomes rich in a form of glucose named ‘glycogen’, which feeds the growth of Candida albicans. It’s believed the higher levels of glycogen occurs due to increased oestrogen levels and reduced acidity in the vagina. This is why a pregnant woman is ten times more likely to get thrush than normal – instead of being a nice cosy home for thrush, the vagina is now a five star hotel! Other things which can kill good pro-biotic bacteria include: Antibiotics Birth Control Pills Steroidal/hormonal drugs Fluoride Chlorine Coffee/Tea/Carbonated Drinks Synthetic vitamins Radiation Stress Additives Pesticides Fertilisers A high acid diet can also cause havoc with good bacteria in your body and allow bad bacteria to thrive. Switch to more alkaline foods in an alkaline diet – you’ll feel so much better with so many aspects of your health, from good bacteria, to energy and less headaches. What Are The Symptoms of Thrush? Increased cervical fluid production is common during pregnancy, you may have already noticed a thin, milky discharge which is a result of your body’s hormones doing their job. If the discharge becomes thick, white and creamy (like cottage cheese) and if you have itching in your vaginal area, you may have thrush. Some women notice a stinging or burning sensation on the labia during urination and some also feel pain or burning during sexual intercourse. If this is you, it is important to have this checked out by your carer, to ensure nothing else is going on. Sometimes what you may assume are symptoms of thrush can actually be something more sinister, especially if you’re having trouble getting rid of it. Bacterial Vaginosis or STDs (sexually transmitted diseases) can have the same thrush-like symptoms – the only way you can be sure is to get tested for all of these possibilities by your GP. See the video at the end of this article about how what you think is thrush may be bacterial vaginosis and how you can restore the balance of good bacteria, beating the infection. Its a brilliant presentation I recently found and its highly informative and important for every woman to understand about vaginal health. Don’t feel embarrassed if you have any of these conditions – in the United States, around 30% of women aged 14-49 have bacterial vaginosis at any one time. You can have bacterial vaginosis without being symptomatic, so it can be hard to pinpoint when it began. But just like thrush, this happens when the good bacteria have been depleted and they are replaced by potentially harmful bacteria. Bacterial vaginosis is often accompanied with a fishy odour (which can be very embarrassing for women) and its important to not that those who have bacterial vaginosis are also at higher risk of pre-term labour. So while vaginal bacterial imbalances are fairly common problem, its best prevented and kept under control as described below. How Can I Prevent Thrush? “I took 2 × 25 ml (of Fast Tract) per day for the first three or four days, but now I have cut down to 1 × 25ml per day. I can even eat sweets again with absolutely no problems! I can’t tell you how over the moon I am….no more creams, diets, drops, vinegar, or painful sex! I intend to keep taking it until I have the baby at least.” — happymum2 Thrush can be kept under control or prevented by regular probitotics and/or a change in diet and lifestyle. Over the counter/pharmaceutical preparations may help your case of thrush fairly quickly (they usually take a few days to kick in and work in your system), but its important to know that it’s only fixing a symptom – and if you don’t fix whats going on underneath then you may find thrush or other bacterial infections reoccurring. Some over the counter preparations are no longer working for women so it strengthens the argument to look for the root cause of the imbalance. The Importance of Probiotics In the 1980’s, Dr. Gregor Reid and Dr. Andrew Bruce discovered two lactobacillus strains, L. rhamnosus (GR-1™) and L. reuteri (RC-14®). These two strains have been shown to be very beneficial for improving the health of the urinary system and the vagina – helping to restore normal vaginal microflora, particularly in women with bacterial vaginosis as well as thrush. As a result, there have been over 20 published clinical trials and over 200 peer-reviewed publications documenting these benefits when taking these probiotics orally. I have included a presentation by Dr. Gregor Reid at the end of this article, which you’ll get some great information from. There are many probiotic preparations on the market, usually found at your health food store or at the chemist. They store the probiotics in the fridge being a live bacteria – you will likely need to ask for it as it won’t be on the shelf. However, its important to know that different strains of probiotics have different properties, so you need to know what strains to get or you may not have any benefits. You also need to ensure you get a good quality, live probiotic in adequate amounts. Many probiotic products are being sold which aren’t going to be sufficient to have a health benefit. Probiotics are also added into food products, like drinks, yoghurts etc (without the manufacturers testing their products to see how effective they are). The problem not only lies not in how much probiotic they have added in, but how much are left at the end of shelf life. Don’t waste money on products that wont help – choose a good, effective probiotic from a naturopath or a good health food store who can help with advice on the best brands to take. One of the best general well-being probiotic products to take which is safe in pregnancy (and for the whole family, even young children) is Fast-Tract which you can read about HERE . Unlike many other products, Fast-Tract is not fast-tracked in faecal matter like some other commercially made probiotic products. The bacteria are produced from fruit and vegetables and they have been able to achieve a massive 265 million CFU’s (colony forming units) per mil of liquid. The level of colony forming units is significant because higher bacteria counts improve the ability of the colonies to establish themselves faster. You only need to take a small amount per day and it not only gives you the added benefits of helping with thrush, but many other health issues too. Many women I personally know who have taken Fast-Tract (or a related product called In-Liven which also contains other nutrients, but not so abundant in pro-biotics) have found their thrush to disappear after many months of nothing else working for them. You do need to give probiotics time to work and establish though, so please be patient – and once you’ve started with probiotics, make it a lifetime commitment, to keep your body (and vagina) healthy on the inside – and thrush at bay. “I too upped my daily Fast-Tract to 2 × 25 ml for a few days and I am now pain free!!! Yay! I even have indulged in a couple of sweet treats without having to pay for it later with pain! (Which is probably a mixed blessing as now I’m less motivated to keep my sweet-tooth in check!). Yay for Fast Tract! And Yay for BellyBelly for telling me about it!” — NelleBelle What Can I Do To Treat Thrush? Thankfully, there are lots of natural remedies you can use to treat thrush a bout of thrush that are safe in pregnancy. If you choose a pharmaceutical solution, this may work fine, but be aware that some types of anti-fungal preparations may not work for you, e.g. if you have no relief from Canasten, it doesn’t mean another brand like Nilstat won’t work. They have slightly different constituents, so it may be a matter of finding what works at the time. If nothing is working, you need to look at the possibility of it not being thrush but another infection instead, or some other factor – in which case make sure you let your doctor know. If you are in your first trimester, your carer will be least likely to want to prescribe you something for thrush. Here are some suggestions below if you cannot take any medication or if you’re looking for a natural remedy: Douching isn’t recommended – do not douche or you may further upset the flora balance in your vagina, as you’ll not only wash away the bad bacteria but the good bacteria too. Get onto Fast-Tract as soon as you can – this will help the actual problem of a bacterial imbalance and will get to work right away. The good bacteria will begin to grow and out-number the bad bacteria. Natural live yogurt contains a pro-biotic called acidophilus. However, the level of pro-biotics in yoghurt is quite low, so it can take a little more time to help, which can be frustrating especially if itching is a problem. You can eat the yoghurt as much as you like, some women swear by inserting some plain natural yoghurt into their vagina. You can soak a tampon in natural yoghurt, (differentiate just unsweetened from true natural yoghurt) and insert into the vagina for 2 hours, then change for new one. I recommend Jalna natural yoghurt. Garlic internally. This is one of the most effective, quick ways to rid thrush for many women. Read a full article here: How To Treat a Vaginal Infection With a Clove of Garlic . Avoid underwear that is tight or contains materials like lycra and other fabric which reduces air circulation – cotton is best. Avoid underwear wherever possible – not a good idea though if you are going to work and wearking a skirt! Around the home and overnight is a good start. Avoid tight jeans or trousers where possible – opt for skirts if you can. Candida albicans thrive in moist, warm environments so try to avoid long, hot baths and dry yourself properly afterwards. Good old Gentian Violet in an aqua or water base is still extremely effective for vaginal thrush (just messy and ‘out there’ being bright purple). Its especially good for nipples and babies mouths as it is very liquid and soaks into all the crevices in the tissues which a gel like Daktarin cannot. Try avoiding yeast – lot of women swear that yeast in their diet increases the growth of candida. It’s often present in iron tonic supplements so check list of ingredients when taking these. High levels of sugar in diets seems to be a very common culprit, look to amending the diet – cut out soft drinks, processed foods, breads and pastries – anything that we well know is not good for us. Can Thrush Affect My Baby? Not at all. If you have thrush when you go into labour, there is a small chance that your baby will catch it as he or she comes through the vagina. If a baby has thrush this is often seen as white patches in the baby’s mouth, but it isn’t serious and is easily treated. If your baby does get thrush in the mouth, this may be passed back to you through breastfeeding and you can keep re-infecting each other, so it’s important that you treat the both of you at the same time. Fast Tract is safe for babies, you can give them 1ml and you can take the adult dose. There are also over the counter preparations or you can ask your GP. If your baby has passed thrush onto you, you may experience sore, tender nipples and a ‘shooting’ pain while breastfeeding you baby. The shooting pains may also occur after feeding, and seem to radiate from the nipple right through to the back of the breast. It’s pain which can make the eyes water and it can create so much tension in mum prior to feeding that it makes for an unpleasant experience and you may have feelings of wanting to give up breastfeeding. So before you do this, make sure you seek the services of a qualified Lactation Consultant (ideally an IBCLC – International Board Certified Lactation Consultant), who can come to your home and help identify any problems and/or diagnose any possible thrush, getting you on the road to more pleasant feeding! You can locate Lactation Consultants through the following organisations: Australian Lactation Consultants Organisation Network of Australian Lactation Colleges National Board of Lactation Consultant Examiners Some Great Information Worth Watching Below is a presentation by Dr. Gregor Reid, Ph.D., MBA, who is a renowned probiotic researcher and the world’s leading expert in using clinically-documented probiotics to address women’s health concerns. This presentation is brilliant – it’s easy to follow and detailed, so you will understand pro-biotics much better, especially with regards to women’s health (including thrush and bacterial vaginosis). I very much enjoyed watching this and learning so much about this common problem, which is on the rise with current lifestyle habits. It’s broken up into several short chapters – enjoy! © Copyright 2009 by Kelly Winder, All Rights Reserved. Article may not be copied in part or full without written permission. Kelly Winder is a birth attendant (aka doula), the creator of BellyBelly and mum to two beautiful children. Become a fan of BellyBelly on Facebook here or add Kelly as a friend (frequently adding articles and stories) here . This article contains contributions made by our website Midwife, Brenda Manning (MIPP). Get Informed! Free eNewsletter. Email Article Find this article interesting? Email it to a friend. Email address: Your email: Your name: Share Article Share on Facebook More
Pregnancy
Articles 9 Reasons Why You Should Choose Independent Birth Education Amniocentesis – What Is An ‘Amnio’ and What’s Involved? Ante-Natal Depression – Depression During Pregnancy Are You Prepared for Breastfeeding? Baby Formula: What They Wont Tell You About Baby Formula Baby Name List – Baby Names For Baby Boys Baby Name List – Baby Names For Baby Girls Baby Shower Games – Fun Games For Your Baby Shower Bleeding in Pregnancy – What Could the Bleeding Be? Blessingways: What Are They and Why Do Pregnant Women Love Them? Colouring Your Hair During Pregnancy: Is It Safe To Colour Your Hair? Common Side Effects During Pregnancy – And What You Can Do To Help CVS (Chorionic Villus Sampling) Doesn’t Feel Right? Speaking Up and How To Do It Doulas at Birth – What Is a Doula And Why Do So Many Women Want One? Down Syndrome – Expecting a Baby With Down Syndrome Ectopic Pregnancy – Signs and Symptoms of Ectopic Pregnancy Gas During Pregnancy – A Windy Problem Gender Dilemmas – Wanting a Boy – or a Girl Gender Disappointment: Feeling Disappointed About The Gender of Your Baby Gestational Diabetes (GD) During Pregnancy Haemorrhoids: Fast Treatments For Haemorrhoids in Pregnancy Hiring a Birth Attendant or Doula – Questions to Ask Hyperemesis Gravidarum – Severe Morning Sickness Listeria and Pregnancy Love, Lust and Little Ones: What They Never Tell You Low Lying Placenta & Placenta Praevia Maternity Bras and Pregnancy Miscarriage – When a Miscarriage Occurs and Why It Can Happen Mucous Plug / Show – What Is It?! Nutrition in Pregnancy Obstetricians – 11 Questions To Ask Before Choosing An Obstetrician Old Wives’ Tales – Will I Have a Boy or Girl? Optimal Fetal Positioning – Helping Your Baby Find A Good Position For Birth Paid Maternity Leave and Parental Leave in Australia for 2011 Pets and Your Baby – Preparing Your Pet For A Baby Pre Natal Yoga Pre-Eclampsia in Pregnancy – Symptoms of Pre-Eclampsia Pre-Natal Testing & Screening Pregnancy and Flying – Tips for Flying While Pregnant Pregnancy Due Date Calculator – Calculate Your Estimated Due Date Pregnancy Symptoms & Early Signs of Pregnancy – 15 Signs To Look For Pregnancy Tests – When to Test For Pregnancy and How Do They Work? Pregnancy Tickers – Countdown to Baby With A Pregnancy Ticker! Pregnancy Week by Week – First Trimester of Pregnancy (Week 1 – Week 13) Private Health Funds Covering Midwifery and Homebirth Public, Private, Birth Centre or Home? Raspberry Leaf in Pregnancy & Red Raspberry Leaf Tea Rhesus Negative Blood Group in Pregnancy Seeing the Dentist in Pregnancy Smoking and Pregnancy – FAQ’s on Smoking While Pregnant Stretchmarks In Pregnancy Unexpectedly Pregnant Vaginal Exams – When Are They Really Necessary? Waxing During Pregnancy Who Cares? Choosing a Model of Maternity Care Will Your Baby Be Born in a Baby Friendly Hospital? BellyBelly.com.au is one of Australia's biggest and most respected family websites, for conception , pregnancy , birth , breastfeeding , baby , toddlers , children and much more. Trying to get pregnant? Find out how to increase your chances of conception by charting your cycle and join us in the conception general discussion forums .
If you're already pregnant, you can post a pregnancy announcement and find out all there is to know by reading our pregnancy articles .
Not sure when you can expect your precious bundle? Use our pregnancy due date calculator to determine your estimated due date, then join our busy pregnancy forums, including pregnancy general discussion , first trimester pregnancy discussion , second trimester pregnancy discussion , third trimester pregnancy discussion or our interactive pregnancy due date groups -
chat with women due when you are! Get informed and educated about your options and choices for birth in our labour & birth forums or if you're planning a VBAC (vaginal birth after caesarean) ,
we have that covered too. You’ll find loads of information on feeding your baby in our breastfeeding, bottlefeeding & solids forums and all things nappies .
Our parenting forums are a great place to learn and share with others about what programs, routines and rituals are helpful as well as our education forum for all things kindergarten, school and beyond. © Copyright 2002–2012 BellyBelly, All Rights Reserved. All photography featured on this website remains the property of BellyBelly , and may not be copied or linked. contact us | 