Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aloe heal scars Subscribe To This Site Aloe heal scars by Kelly I would encourage people with mild acne scars to use 100% Aloe Vera gel (Fruit of the Earth is a good brand, 12 oz. for 5 bucks at eckerds.) I have scars to, and I'm using it.It takes quite a while because of the process of exfoliation and regeneration of the skin cells.Aloe vera also helps to tighten skin and helps to fade some red marks. Consider that everybody's skin is different and what works for some, will not for others. I do like the fruit of the earth brand because it is 100% aloe gel. Aloe is good for your skin in that it helps new skin cells develop. A dermabrasion study done ten years ago showed that facial wounds healed seventy-two hours faster when aloe vera was added to the polyethylene oxide gel wound dressing (Journal of Dermatological Surgery and Oncology, 1990, vol. 16). More recently, vascular surgeon Dr. Tyler, M.D. of Louisiana recorded the near-miraculous second chance that aloe vera afforded a diabetic in danger of losing her arm (Bossier Medical Center, 1997). Aloe Vera also is great for avoiding scarring after reconstruction and facial surgery. In fact, studies have confirmed that aloe vera serves each of the following functions: • speeds healing, tensile strength and repair of damaged skin • holds moisture and adds flexibility to retard aging • with its antibacterial properties fights infections including fungus and staph • tightens and balances skin through astringent pH properties • moisturizes by carrying added emollients into the skin up to seven layers • with natural anti-inflammatory agents reduces pain • minimizes scarring and may reverse scars less than five years old Comments for Aloe heal scars Average Rating Click here to add your own comments Jan 05, 2009 Rating Aloe healing scars by: Anonymous Pure Aloe Vera extract is actually a combination of many different vitamins and minerals. Working together, these vital nutrients help give aloe vera its healing properties. The gel inside the aloe vera plant can be applied directly to the skin. Aloe vera has been found to contain excellent medicinal properties that are very effective in the removal of acne scars. It is an established fact that aloe ingredients have; * A natural anti inflammatory effect which speeds up the healing process of acne. * Moisturizing properties thus hydrate the skin and prevent it from becoming dry and blistered. * A mild astringent effect that prevents excessive oil production. * Revitalizing effects on skin hence results in fresh and clear skin. I usually apply the aloe vera after washing and before the moisturizer. The aloe vera is helping to heal some of my old acne scars, and it's really great on existing pimples. I have a plant and just break off a small piece. Click here to add your own comments Join in and write your own page! It's easy to do. How? Simply click here to re