
Health Newsletters Home Weight Loss Plan Products Assessments Kids Health Health News Boot Camp Shopping BULLETINS HEALTH A-Z HOT TOPICS NEWSLETTERS • Overview • Issues Probiotics: 
	Appropriate For Infants And Children Chester J. Zelasko, Ph.D. | February 10, 2004 One of the questions 
	asked most frequently at Better Life Unlimited is which supplements are 
	appropriate for babies and when can they start to take them? The use of any 
	dietary supplements for infants should be discussed with your pediatrician, 
	but some recent research suggests an important topic for discussion. The 
	research concerns the use of probiotics in infants to reduce the occurrence 
	of asthma, allergies, and skin disorders. Probiotics, such as acidophilus and bifidus, are healthy bacteria that 
	reside in the large intestine; they complete the breakdown of food that 
	begins in the stomach. We get them from the foods we eat, but they can be 
	dramatically reduced when we take antibiotics. That's why regular use of 
	probiotics can be beneficial to overall health. Because of recent research, 
	the best time to begin use of probiotics may be before birth. Probiotics for Fetuses and Infants Researchers in Finland examined the effect of probiotics on the development 
	of asthma, allergies, and atopic eczema in infants (1). In a double-blind, 
	placebo-controlled trial, they gave probiotics to pregnant woman with a 
	family history of those conditions and then to the infants for six months 
	after birth. After two years, the infants who took the probiotics had half 
	the rate of atopic eczema than those infants who did not; there were not 
	enough cases of allergies or asthma to determine effectiveness. In a 
	follow-up study, the researchers examined the same children at four years 
	and found the benefit continued through the first four years of life (2). Probiotics for Older Children The use of probiotics doesn't benefit only infants. In another study, 
	researchers gave a six-week course of probiotics to children ranging from 
	1-13 years of age (3). More than half the subjects had an improvement in 
	eczema, while only 15% of the placebo group saw an improvement. Probiotics for Food Allergies In a recent article, Vanderhoof and Young reviewed the use of probiotics to 
	reduce gastrointestinal food allergies (4). Some food allergies may manifest 
	themselves only in the gut early in life but may later lead to systemic 
	allergic reactions that cause respiratory responses, including asthma. The 
	use of probiotics in infants may be beneficial to reduce the incidence of 
	allergies and asthma later in life. Probiotics may be commonly used in the 
	future to reduce the incidence of food allergies, and while it will benefit 
	people of all ages, the critical time for beginning to use probiotics may be 
	in infancy or before birth. The use of probiotics appears to be safe for children of all ages and has 
	some benefit in reducing the severity of certain skin conditions and 
	allergies. Discuss the use of probiotics for your child with your 
	pediatrician. In fact, the best time to begin probiotics may be during 
	pregnancy, so a discussion with your obstetrician may be a good place to 
	start. It's never too early to ensure good nutrition. References: Kalliomaki M., et al. Probiotics in primary prevention of atopic 
		disease: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet. 2001; 
		357(9262):1076-9. Kalliomaki M., et al. Probiotics and prevention of atopic disease: 
		4-year follow-up of a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet. 2003; 
		361(9372): 1869-71. Rosenfeldt V., et al. Effect of probiotic Lactobacillus strains in 
		children with atopic dermatitis. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 
		2003;111(2):389-95. Vanderhoof JA, Young RJ. Role of probiotics in the management of 
		patients with food allergy. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2003;90 (6 Suppl 
		3):99-103. © 2011 Better Life Unlimited™ A division of Bett