Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Brain SPECT: Vascular dementias: Tutorial Atlas of Brain
Perfusion SPECT Vascular Dementias TUTORIAL Introduction Vascular dementia is related to a number of
   distinct underlying diseases. Patients with hypertension, diabetes
   mellitus, and hypercholesteremia are more susceptible. Multi-infarct dementia
   (MID) involves the large vessels and is due
   to multiple, large and discrete infarctions. A history of strokes,
   assymetrical neurological signs and pseudobulbar palsy are some
   clues that help in reaching the diagnosis of MID. Subcortical arteriosclerotic
   encephalopathy ( Binswanger's disease ) involves the
   microcirculation, presents as white matter disease, and is
   attributed to atherosclerosis of penetrating cerebral
   arteries. Imaging Findings Characteristic findings in HMPAO-SPECT
   scintigraphy of multi-infarct dementia are multiple asymmetric
   perfusion defects, often involving the primary cortex and deep
   structures. CT and MRI also show multiple lesions. Vascular dementias which involve
      subcortical structures are usually associated with diffuse and
      patchy patterns of reduced blood flow. Mixed patterns are often
      seen. Differential
Diagnosis Alzheimer's
   dementia , which is far more common than
   multi-infarct dementia, must be ruled out before establishing the
   diagnosis of vascular dementia. Tc-99m-HMPAO SPECT is an accurate
   and useful modality in differentiating MID from Alzheimer's
   disease, when defects classically involve the temporoparietal
   cortex bilaterally, with sparing of primary motor and sensory
   cortex and deep structures. Clinically, the course of vascular
   dementia fluctuates between periods of improvements and
   deterioration, while a slow and progressive deterioration is often
   seen in Alzheimer's. Moreover, hypertension, which is common
   amongst patients with vascular dementia, is a rare finding in
   patients with Alzhiemer's disease. Stroke References Holman BL, Devous MD. Functional brain SPECT: the emergence of
   a powerful clinical method. J Nucl Med 1992; 33:1888-1904. Harrison's Principles