Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Stanleys Lower Back Pain Story BACK PAIN DIAGNOSES MIND & BODY TREATMENTS RECOVERY [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Stanley's Lower Back Pain Story I was diagnosed with a herniated disc in my lower back 2 years ago.  I am an active guy in my 60’s and never really had any chronic pain until this problem.  I did not do anything to hurt my back, I simply felt pain come on slowly and worsen day by day.  I tried a variety of conservative treatments such as physical therapy, exercise, dietary supplements and chiropractic to no avail.  I met with a few surgeons but decided that the pain was not bad enough to warrant surgery.  After reading this site, I was not thrilled with my prospects for a good recovery after surgery anyway… I wrote to Sensei Rostocki several times and was advised to begin knowledge therapy.  I felt that this treatment did help me, but it did not completely resolve my pain.  My biggest problem was that I could not put the thought of that herniated disc out of my head.  It prevented me from getting past the physical condition 100%.  Sensei advised me to try spinal decompression, so I found a DRX9000 facility near me in Seattle.  I took 30 treatments over several weeks and found that I felt pretty good.  I continued to use the knowledge therapy techniques to overcome the rest of my pain once I got the confirmation that my herniated disc had shrunk back down following decompression.  Now, I found the techniques far more effective, since I was no longer obsessed with the physical condition and could finally concentrate on the psychological. I have been pain free now for many months, but wanted to share my story with you.  Sometimes, a combination of physical and psychological treatment might just be the best medicine for certain patients, like me.  Thanks for all your help Sensei, writing my story was the least I could do to repay you. Stanley Advertisement: Stanley's Lower Back Pain Story to Back Pain 3/5/07 ©2006-2012 no distribution, syndication or reproduction of any content allowed, punishable by law. SEARCH THE SITE Subscribe to our Free Newsletter! Your First Name Your E-mail Address Mission Statement Editorial Board Legal Privacy Policy Site Funding Disclosure Source Material Advisory :  This website is not intended to diagnose or treat any medical condition. Any medical condition should be referred to a qualified medical professional.  This website is designed to complement, but