
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 02:14:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian) DAV/2 mod_jk/1.2.32 PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3 with Suhosin-Patch mod_python/3.3.1 Python/2.6.6 mod_ssl/2.2.16 OpenSSL/0.9.8o mod_wsgi/3.3 Phusion_Passenger/3.0.8 mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.10.1
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Cache-Control: max-age=600
Expires: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 02:24:21 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Harvard Medical School: 20 no-sweat ways to get more exercise In this issue of HEALTHbeat : • 20 no-sweat ways to get more exercise • What can I do about earwax buildup? Help
      us be sure this email newsletter isn’t filtered as spam. Add HEALTHbeat@hms.harvard.edu to
      your address book to ‘whitelist’ us with your filter, helping
      future issues get to your inbox. View
                        the HEALTHbeat archives | RSS October 14, 2008 Dear
        HEALTHbeat subscriber, I know someone who absolutely loves to exercise — she never  complains about having to go to the gym or makes excuses for why she just can’t  fit in her afternoon run. It would be nice — and healthy! — if we were all cut from  the same motivated cloth. But, the truth is it takes a bit more effort for most  of us to get moving. This issue of HEALTHbeat gives 20 tips on how to fit in physical  activity where you least expect it. Also, Dr. Celeste Robb-Nicholson discusses  how to deal with the problem of earwax buildup. Wishing you good health, Nancy Ferrari Managing Editor Harvard Health Publications HEALTHbeat@hms.harvard.edu 20 no-sweat ways to get more exercise [ READ ] Notable from Harvard Medical School: * Exercise: A program you can    live with * Hearing Loss: A guide to    prevention and treatment [ READ ] What can I do about earwax buildup? [ READ ] From
              Harvard Medical School Exercise: A program you can live with Hundreds of studies conducted over the past 50 years demonstrate that exercise helps you feel better and live longer. Exercise: A program you can live with describes specific types  of exercise and explains the complementary roles of structured exercise  and daily activity. It will also help guide you through starting and  maintaining an exercise program that suits your abilities and  lifestyle. [ READ
              MORE ] TELL A FRIEND Invite someone to sign up for HEALTHbeat and you both will
            receive a FREE gift. Click
            here to start . 20 no-sweat ways to get more exercise You already know that exercise is good for you. The notion  that physical activity helps keep us healthy is very old news indeed.  What you may not know is just how good — or  exactly what qualifies as exercise. A deluge of studies have documented the health benefits of  exercise—or physical activity, the term many researchers prefer because it’s  more of a catchall. What’s impressive about this research, aside from the sheer  volume, is the number of conditions exercise seems to prevent, ameliorate, or  delay. We’re used to hearing about the benefits of exercise for fending  off heart attacks and diabetes. But exercise as a soldier in the war against  cancer? It seems to be, and on several fronts: breast, colon, endometrial, perhaps  ovarian. To top things off, several studies have found that exercise can reduce  the symptoms of depression, and changes the brain in ways similar to  antidepressant medications. In old age, physical activity may delay the slide  of cognitive decline into dementia, and even once that process has started,  exercise can improve certain aspects of thinking. So in the spirit of finding ways to get your body moving, we’ve  made 20 suggestions for ways to become a little bit more physically active.  Some are adapted from a book published by Sport England, a group in Britain  that encourages activity and fitness. Take the far away spot. Walking       from the farthest corner of the parking lot will burn a few calories. If       it’s a parking garage, head for the roof and use the stairs. Walk to the next stop. If you take       a bus or train, don’t wait at the nearest stop. Walk to the next one. Or,       at the end of your journey, get off a stop early and finish up on foot. Hang loose. During your bus or       train trip, stand and don’t hold on too tightly. You’ll improve your sense       of balance and build up your “core” back and abdominal muscles. Walk and talk. If you are a member       of a book group, propose 15 to 20 minutes of peripatetic discussion of the       book before you sit down and chat. Walk while you watch. Soccer moms,       dads, and grandparents can circle the field several times during a game       and not miss a single play. Walk tall. Maintaining good       posture — chest out, shoulders square but relaxed, stomach in — will help       keep your back and abdominal muscles in shape. Besides, you’ll just look a       whole lot healthier if you don’t slouch (mom was right). Adopt someone as your walking,       jogging, or biking buddy. Adding a social element to exercise helps       many people stick with it. That buddy might have four legs. Several studies have shown that dog owners get more exercise than the       canine-less. Be part of the fun. Adults       shouldn’t miss a chance to jump into the fray if kids are playing on a       playground or splashing around in the water. Climbing on the jungle gym       (be careful!) and swinging on a swing will strengthen muscles and bones       and set a good example. Put on your dancing shoes. Exercise doesn’t have to be done in a straight line. Dancing can get your       heart going and helps with balance. Dance classes tend to have lower       dropout rates than gyms. Or just turn up the volume at home and boogie. Wash and dry the dishes by hand. The drying alone is a mini-workout for the arms. Clean house. Even if you have a       cleaning service, you can take responsibility for vacuuming a couple of       rooms yourself. Fifteen minutes burns around 80 calories. Wash some       windows and do some dusting and you’ve got a pretty decent workout — and a       cleaner house. Hide that remote. Channel surfing       can add hours to screen time. If you have to get up to change the channel,       you are more likely to turn it off and maybe do something else that’s less       sedentary. Go swimmingly somewhere. Swimming       is great exercise if you have arthritis because the water supports your       weight, taking the load off of joints. The humid air around a pool       sometimes makes breathing more comfortable for people with lung problems. Don’t e-mail. In the office, get       out of your chair, walk down the hallway, and talk to the person. At home,       write an old-fashioned letter and walk to a mailbox — and not the nearest       one — to mail it. Stand up when you’re on the phone. Breaking up long periods of sitting has metabolic benefits. Even standing       for a minute or two can help. Think small. Small bouts of       activity are better than knocking yourself out with a workout that will be       hard to replicate. Be a stair master. Take the stairs       instead of the elevator or escalator whenever you can. It’s good for your       legs and knees, and your cardiovascular health will benefit from the       little bit of huffing and puffing. Don’t overdo. One flight at a time. Stairs tip #2. You’ll give the       gluteal muscles a nice little workout if you can climb up two stairs at a       time. Stairs tip #3. You can give your       calf muscles a nice little stretch by putting the ball of the foot on the       stair and lowering your heel. For more information on maintaining an active lifestyle, order our Special        Health Report, Exercise: A program you can live with at www.health.harvard.edu/E . FOR
            FURTHER READING For  information on maintaining an active lifestyle, order our Special Health Report, Exercise: A program you can live with . [ READ
              MORE or BUY ] [ Back
        to top ] Notable
      from Harvard Medical School ** Exercise: A program you can live with Hundreds of studies conducted over the past 50 years demonstrate that exercise helps you feel better and live longer. Exercise: A program you can live with describes specific types  of exercise and explains the complementary roles of structured exercise  and daily activity. It will also help guide you through starting and  maintaining an exercise program that suits your abilities and  lifestyle. [ CLICK
        TO READ MORE or BUY ] ** Hearing Loss: A guide to prevention and treatment Hearing Loss: A guide to prevention and treatment describes the causes and cures for hearing  loss. Learn about the latest advances in hearing aid technology,  and find out which kind of hearing device may be best for you. This  report also contains in-depth information on the causes, diagnosis, and  treatment of hearing loss. You’ll also learn how to prevent hearing  loss and preserve the hearing you have now. [ CLICK
        TO READ MORE or BUY ] [ Back
        to top ] What can I do about earwax buildup? Q: My doctor recently noticed lots of wax in my ear, almost  blocking the canal. How did this happen? What should I do about it? A. If the wax in your ear isn’t causing any trouble, you  needn’t do anything about it. Earwax (cerumen) is made in the external auditory  canal. Its function is protective. Normally, it forms a film on the surface of  the skin lining the canal, helping shield the canal from damage by water,  infection, or trauma. Earwax also traps particles, such as dust, and helps  eliminate bacteria that could damage the canal or the delicate eardrum  (tympanic membrane). Cerumen is composed of an oily fluid secreted by sebaceous  and ceruminous glands, mixed with sloughed-off skin, bits of hair, and other  debris. The consistency of earwax ranges from liquid to rock-hard, depending on  the amounts of each component and how long the wax has been in the canal. The  higher the proportion of dead skin cells and hair and the longer the mixture  has been in the ear canal, the harder the wax. Normally, earwax migrates from inside the canal to the outer  ear, and then either washes out or dries up and falls out. But for various  reasons, it can accumulate in the canal, harden, and become impacted. The  natural elimination of wax may be obstructed if the ear canal is especially  narrow because of swelling from an infection or a tiny abnormality in the bone  surrounding the canal. Some people are simply born with tortuous or narrow  canals that easily become blocked. Skin conditions such as eczema can harden the cerumen by  causing rapid turnover of skin cells. Excessive hair growth in the canal may  trap cerumen, slowing its normal migration out of the ear. In some cases, a  person’s cerumen production simply outpaces the ear’s natural elimination  process. And as we age, the glands in the ear canal tend to atrophy, producing  a fluid that’s less oily and therefore progresses less easily through the ear  canal. Other things can contribute to an earwax blockage. For example, in the  process of trying to remove earwax with a Q-tip or other instrument, you may  push the wax farther back into the ear canal, where it accumulates and hardens.  Hearing aids and earplugs can also contribute to earwax buildup. Earwax needs to be removed only if it causes a hearing aid  malfunction or physical symptoms, such as hearing loss, tinnitus, or earache.  If you have any of these problems, removal may be necessary — even when the  earwax is not causing the problem, but simply obstructing your clinician’s view  by blocking the canal. There are several ways to remove impacted earwax.  Clinicians may scoop it out with slender curettes or “spoons.” They may rinse  the canal with warm water sprayed gently through a bulb syringe, loosening the  wax and allowing it to float out. If the wax is very hard, your clinician may  recommend that you use eardrops to soften the wax for a few days before  returning to have it removed. Often the drops alone will do the job, softening  the wax enough that it moves out of the ear on its own. Prescription and over-the-counter eardrop preparations  generally contain mineral oil, baby oil, glycerin, hydrogen peroxide, or  saline, either alone or in some combination. No one preparation appears to be  more effective than another. However, if the blockage is due to sloughing off  of skin cells in the ear canal (for example, as a result of eczema), you should  avoid hydrogen peroxide drops, which can dry the skin and increase the risk of  cell sloughing. You can try to treat an earwax blockage on your own as long  as you don’t have a perforated eardrum. (If there’s a hole in the eardrum,  using eardrops or rinsing with water could cause an infection. Your clinician  can check your eardrums with an instrument called an otoscope.) The procedure  is simple: place a few eardrops in the affected ear twice a day for four to  five days to soften the wax. Wait a day or two, and then rinse out the ear. To  rinse, hold your head upright, and pull your outer ear up and back to  straighten out the canal. Using a bulb syringe, gently squirt body-temperature  water into your ear canal. Don’t squeeze the bulb too hard, and don’t force the  syringe deep into the canal. Tip your head to allow the water to drain out. Never try to dig out earwax with something like a Q-tip,  paper clip, or hairpin. That could push it farther into the canal or injure  your eardrum. Another procedure to avoid is ear candling — trying to get the  wax to adhere to a lighted hollow candle that you stick into the ear. This  doesn’t work and could do serious harm. Preventing earwax blockage is difficult, although people  with frequent blockages may use mineral oil drops once a week to help keep the  wax from hardening and building up. But earwax is there for a purpose and  doesn’t ordinarily need to be removed. So, in general, your best bet is simply  to clean your outer ear with a washcloth and leave wax removal to your ear’s  own self-cleaning mechanism. — Celeste Robb-Nicholson, M.D. Editor in Chief, Harvard Women’s Health Watch This Question and Answer first appeared in the February 2008 Harvard Women’s Health Watch , available at www.health.harvard.edu/women . FOR
            FURTHER READING For more information on hearing problems, order our Special
          Health Report, Hearing Loss: A guide to prevention and treatment . [ READ
              MORE or BUY ] [ Back
        to top ] Harvard
        Medical School publishes authoritative Special Health Reports on a wide
        range of topics. Each report delivers practical information on diagnosis,
        treatment, and prevention of major health concerns in clear, easy-to-understand
        language. For more information on a specific topic, click the appropriate
        link below: Alzheimer’s , Arthritis , Bladder , Cholesterol , Depression , Diabetes , Digestion , Energy , Exercise , Eye
          Disease , Headache , Heart
          Disease , High
          Blood Pressure , Memory , Menopause , Prostate , Sexuality , Sleep , Stroke , Vitamins [ Back
        to top ] Harvard Medical School offers special reports on over 50
      health topics. Visit our Web site at http://www.health.harvard.edu to
      find reports of interest to you and your family. Copyright 2008 by  Harvard University. HEALTHbeat
      is distributed to individuals who have subscribed via the Harvard Health
        Publications Web site .
      You are currently subscribed to HEALTHbeat as %%$email%% . PHONE
      ORDERS To
      order a subscription or special health report by phone, please call our
      toll-free number: 1-877-649-9457. EDIT YOUR SUBSCRIPTION PROFILE Update your name and email address, or subscribe to other free e-mail newsletters from Harvard Health Publications. UNSUBSCRIBE You
      can remove yourself from our e-mailing list at any time. TELL
      A FRIEND Share
      the gift of good health with your friends and family. We’ll send your friends an e-mail
      invitation to sign up for HEALTHbeat, and a FREE gift if they sign up. SUBSCRIBE TO HEALTHbeat Sign up to receive HEALTHbeat and other free e-mail newsletter from Harvard Health Publications. VIEW HEALTHbeat ARCHIVES . Read back issues of HEALTHbeat online. Harvard Health Publications Harvard Medical School 10 Shattuck Street, Suite 612 Boston, MA 02115 USA Visit our Web site at: www.health.harvard.edu Email us at: HEALTHbeat@hms.harvard.edu * Please note, we do not provide responses to personal medical
      concerns, nor can we supply related medical information other than what
      is available in our print products or Web site. For specific, personalized
    