Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture - Weill Cornell Department of Surgery Weill Cornell Medical College Weill Cornell Department of Surgery - For Patients and their Families About Us Services at Weill Cornell Surgery Health Library Patient and Visitor Guides to our Hospital Clinical Trials Find a Surgeon About Us Weill Cornell Department of Surgery Contact Us Ways to give Home Health Library Health Animation Library Ranked Among America's Best Hospitals by U.S.News About Us Return to Acupuncture Overview More on Acupuncture Surgical Services Return to Acupuncture Overview More on Acupuncture Health Library Return to Acupuncture Overview More on Acupuncture Patient and Visitor Guides to our Hospital Return to Acupuncture Overview More on Acupuncture Clinical Trials Return to Acupuncture Overview More on Acupuncture Acupuncture What is acupuncture? Acupuncture is the practice of puncturing the skin with needles at certain anatomical points in the body to relieve specific symptoms associated with many diseases. The anatomical points (acupuncture points) are thought to have certain electrical properties, which affect chemical neurotransmitters in the body. Acupuncture is one of the oldest, most commonly used medical practices in the world. Originating in China more than 2,500 years ago, acupuncture gained attention in this country in the 1970s, when China and the US opened relations. The practice has been growing in popularity since. According to theories of traditional Chinese medicine, the human body has more than 2,000 acupuncture points connected via pathways, or meridians. These pathways create an energy flow (Qi, pronounced "chee") through the body that is responsible for overall health. Disruption of the energy flow can cause disease. Acupuncture may correct these imbalances when applied at acupuncture points and improve the flow of Qi. Acupuncture theories today are based on extensive laboratory research, and have become widely known and accepted. In addition, controlled studies have shown evidence of the effectiveness of acupuncture for certain conditions. Approximately 10,000 certified acupuncturists practice in the US today. Not all certified acupuncturists are physicians, but, currently, about one-third of certified acupuncturists are US physicians who have incorporated acupuncture into their medical practices. Acupuncture is not for everyone. If you choose to see an acupuncturist, discuss it with your physician first and find a practitioner who is licensed with appropriate training and credentials. What does acupuncture feel like? Acupuncture is generally performed with metallic, solid, and hair-thin needles. Patients report different feelings associated with acupuncture, but most feel minimal pain as the needle is inserted. Acupuncture makes some people report feeling energized by the treatment, while others say they feel relaxed. Improper placement of the acupuncture needle can cause soreness and pain during treatment. That is why it is important to seek treatment from a qualified acupuncture practitioner. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates acupuncture needles just as it does other medical devices under good manufacturing practices and single-use standards of sterility. Instead of needles, other forms of stimulation are sometimes used, including: heat pressure (acupressure) friction suction impulses of electromagnetic energy How does acupuncture affect the body? Many studies have documented acupuncture's effects on the body, but none has fully explained how acupuncture works within the framework of Western medicine. Researchers have proposed several processes to explain acupuncture's effects, primarily on pain. In general, acupuncture points are believed to stimulate the central nervous system, which, in turn, releases chemicals into the muscles, spinal cord, and brain. These chemicals either alter the experience of pain or release other chemicals that influence the body's self-regulating systems. These biochemical changes may stimulate the body's natural healing abilities and promote physical and emotional well-being. Attention has been focused on the following theories to further explain how acupuncture affects the body: Conduction of electromagnetic signals: Evidence suggests that acupuncture points are strategic conductors of electromagnetic signals. Stimulating these points enables electromagnetic signals to be relayed at greater-than-normal rates. These signals may start the flow of pain-killing biochemicals, such as endorphins, or release immune system cells to specific body sites. Activation of the body's natural opiod system: Considerable research supports the claim that acupuncture releases opiods, synthetic or naturally-occurring chemicals in the brain that may reduce pain or induce sleep. These chemicals may explain acupuncture's pain-relieving effects. Stimulation of the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland: Joined at the base of the brain, the hypothalamus and pituitary glands are responsible for many body functions. The hypothalamus activates and controls part of the nervous system, the endocrine processes, and many bodily functions, such as sleep, regulation of temperature, and appetite. The pituitary gland supplies some of the body's needed hormones. Stimulation of these glands can result in a broad spectrum of effects on various body systems. Change in the secretion of neurotransmitters and neurohormones: Studies suggest that acupuncture may alter brain chemistry in a positive way. This is accomplished by changing the release of neurotransmitters (biochemical substances that stimulate or inhibit nerve impulses) and neurohormones (naturally-occurring chemical substances that can change the structure or function, or impact the activity of, a body organ). Acupuncture and the National Institutes of Health: Clinical studies presented by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have shown that acupuncture is an effective treatment for nausea caused by surgical anesthesia and cancer chemotherapy, as well as for dental pain after surgery. The NIH also has found that acupuncture is useful by itself, or in combination with conventional therapies, to treat addiction, headaches, menstrual cramps, tennis elbow, fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, osteoarthritis, low back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, and asthma, and to assist in stroke rehabilitation. What conditions may benefit from acupuncture? Many Americans seek acupuncture treatment for relief of chronic pain, such as arthritis or low back pain. Acupuncture, however, has expanded uses in other parts of the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) lists 40 conditions that may benefit from acupuncture. However, before considering acupuncture, consult your physician to discuss your current medical conditions, symptoms, and treatment options. These conditions include the following: Digestive Emotional Abdominal pain Constipation Diarrhea Hyperacidity Indigestion Anxiety Depression Insomnia Nervousness Neurosis Eye-Ear-Throat Gynecological Cataracts Gingivitis Poor vision Tinnitus Toothache Infertility Menopausal symptoms Premenstrual symptoms Musculoskeletal Neurological Arthritis Back pain Muscle cramping Muscle pain and weakness Neck pain Sciatica Headaches Migraines Neurogenic bladder dysfunction Parkinson's disease Postoperative pain Stroke Respiratory Miscellaneous Asthma Bronchitis Common cold Sinusitis Smoking cessation Tonsillitis Addiction control Athletic performance Blood pressure regulation Chronic fatigue Immune system tonification Stress reduction Considerations when choosing acupuncture: Because scientific studies have not fully explained how acupuncture works within the framework of Western medicine, acupuncture remains a source of controversy in the medical world. It is important, therefore, to take the precautionary steps listed below: Discuss acupuncture with your physician first to determine if the treatment is right for you. Acupuncture is not for everyone. Discuss all the treatments and medications (prescription and over-the-counter) you are taking. If you have a pacemaker, are pregnant, or have breast or other implants, be sure tell your physician. Acupuncture may be risky to your health, if you fail to mention these matters. Choose a licensed acupuncture practitioner. Your own physician may be a good resource for referrals to a licensed or certified practitioner. Friends and family members may also be good sources of referrals. You do not have to be a physician to practice acupuncture or to become a certified acupuncturist. Approximately 30 states have established training standards for certification in acupuncture, although not all states require acupuncturists to obtain a license to practice. Although not all certified acupuncturists are physicians, the American Academy of Medical Acupuncture can provide a referral list of physicians who practice acupuncture. Consider costs and insurance coverage. According to the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (part of the National Institutes of Health), approximately 70 to 80 percent of the nation's insurers covered some acupuncture treatment in 1996. Before beginning treatment, ask the acupuncturist about the number of treatments needed and how much the treatments will cost. Bookmark Print Click here to find out how you can support the Department of Surgery Top of page © Weill Cornell Medical College Home | Disclaimer | For Professionals | NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Find a Surgeon x close All Categories Last Name Condition or Specialty Surgical Services by Last Name by Condition or Specialty Surgical Services by Last Name by Condition or Specialty Surgical Services View Full Profile Mini-Profile Phone: (212) 746-6006 Fax: (212) 746-8753 Address: 525 