
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.5-1ubuntu7.2
Pragma: no-cache
Cache-control: public
Expires: Thu, 01 Jan 1981 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
X-UA-Compatible: chrome=1
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Connection: close
Date: Mon, 02 Apr 2012 23:19:18 GMT
Server: lighttpd/1.4.28

Treatment for lower back pain Home About This Site About Robin McKenzie The McKenzie Method What to Expect from your McKenzie Clinician 'Treat Your Own Back' - About The Back News & Media Contact Us START THE FREE ASSESSMENT: To start the free online back pain assessment, enter your details in the form on the right and click 'Start Assessment'. Whether you have severe or minor back pain, this online evaluation will assess you across all levels and guide you in the best direction to start treating your back pain. If you have any questions about the online assessment please don't hesitate to contact us. * Please note that by completing this free assessment you will be added to our database so that we can contact you with the purpose of delivering you your custom results. We respect your privacy and will not be contacting you about unrelated matters. You can unsubscribe at anytime (Privacy Policy) . First name: * Email address: * Age: * Under 20 20 - 29 30 - 39 40 - 44 45 - 49 50 - 55 55+ Country: * Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Israel Italy Japan Luxemburg Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland United Kingdom USA Other INTRODUCING 'TREAT YOUR OWN BACK' BY ROBIN MCKENZIE AN EXTRACT FROM THE BOOK: An excerpt from Chapter 2: "Understanding the Spine" Self-treatment Most people will benefit from the advice given in this book, and many will completely rid themselves of pain. Only a few patients – perhaps 10 or 15% – will fail to derive any benefit or favourable response. Lasting improvement can only be obtained if you are conscientious with both the exercises and especially posture correction. You can commence the exercise programme immediately, provided you follow the various precautions described later. When self-treatment does not work Once you have started the exercises, carefully watch your pain pattern. If your pain was steadily worsening before you started this programme and does not begin to subside after the first two weeks, or if your symptoms consistently increase immediately following the exercises and you remain worse over the following two days, discontinue the exercises and seek advice from a qualified clinician (see page 123) Read more about the Treat Your Own Back book Find out more about The McKenzie Method Start the self assessment now Home | About This Site | About Robin McKenzie | The McKenzie Method | What to Expect from your McKenzie Clinician | 'Treat Your Own Back' - About The Back | News & Media | Contact Us © 2010 - 2012 Robin McKenzie. Powered by Web Genius Page: Treatment for 