
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 04:18:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 04:18:17 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Apricot kernels and Cancer e-natureguide Home Weight Loss Supplement Reviews Beauty Supplement Reviews Herbal Remedy Reviews Blog Main Menu Home Diet & Nutrition Health Tips Related Items E-natureguide Blogs Getting Thin With Fat Binders They say thin is in, but then again there are... Dieting Does Not Have to Be Torture A couple of years ago I had been writing about... A Close Look at Vitamin Supplements from Native Remedies We all need a little extra energy in our life,... Fat Binders to Aid Your Weight Loss Everyone is looking for a way to maintain or lose... Its never to late for weight loss We have reviewed many herbal supplements over time, but many... Popular Items Volumetrics Eating Plan and the volumetric diet Apricot kernels and Cancer Appetite Suppressants The Best Natural Weight Loss Supplements Latest News Changing Nutritional Guidelines II Aspire Weight Loss Review Types of Weight Loss Supplements Raspberry Ketones for Weight Loss Home Health Tips General Prevention Apricot kernels and Cancer Apricot kernels and Cancer Apricot kernels are known not just for their nutritional properties but also because of its single most important ingredient – amygdalin, which is commonly known as vitamin B17, and is known to have anti-cancer properties. While vitamin B17 is available in plenty in a host of other foods, but have somehow absent from the regular diet pattern followed in the western world. people who still follow a traditional system of diet, have adequate consumption of this particular vitamin and run lesser risk of developing cancer. For instance, some of the other foods which are rich in amygdalin or vitamin B17 include bitter almonds, apple pips, grape seeds, millet, broad beans and others. Many of the beans and grains which have been grown from hybrids do not contain adequate amounts of amygdalin like American orange pips. While this ingredient is available in almonds, sweet almonds do not contain this vitamin as amygdalin is bitter in taste. Fighting cancer can be done in various ways; one of the most popular methods is to build a strong immunity towards this dreaded disease. The other method is putting in supplemental efforts through antioxidants which have the properties of fighting carcinogenic cells in the body. The amygdalin content of apricot kernels however act in a unique way – it combats the cancer cells directly. The discovery and extract of amygdalin is not recent. In fact, the compound finds its name in various pharmacopeias for over a century. Since its discovery over a century ago, the compound has been known to be non-toxic. Research however has shown that it does contain a toxic substance, a poison to be precise, called cyanide which can be fatal. The cyanide content of amygdalin in the apricot kernels however is in a latent and dormant state and only excessive consumption of amagdalin can have fatal outcome. Just like common salt contains chlorine as one of its ‘harmful’ contents, it can only prove fatal to human, with excessive consumption. Amygdalin however is far less toxic than salt or sugar. While every human body has the capability to deal with the inherent cancer cells with the power of its own immune system, sometimes there are situations which trigger a feverish increment of cancer cells in our body. Situations like a particular weak part of the body, over and continuous exposure to dangerous carcinogens, overtly stressful conditions etc can create multiple and powerful cancer cells in our body which overpower our immune system and we fall prey to cancer. Amygdalin in the apricot cells come in to assist our body’s immune system to fight the cancer cells directly. Every cancer cell contains a specific enzyme which lets out the poison contained within the amygdalin and this is how the cancer cells are killed. While healthy cells do not contain this enzyme, they can however release some nutrients and neutralizing agents which have the capacity to neutralize any poison it came in contact with. Researchers at Imperial College London, while doing trials with cyanide to kill cancer cells have observed that any poison which might escape into the blood stream is quickly neutralized by the renal system. © e-natureguide.com Buy herbal remedies, medicine, creams and other herbal alternative products online,including male enhancement and women’s health supplements. Add comment Name (required) E-mail (required, but will not display) Website Notify me of follow-up comments Refresh Send Canc