
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 19:34:21 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.healthpopular.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Nutrition | Health Blog :: Fitness & Medicine Welcome to HealthPopular.com . Share your health experiences, health knowledge such as alternative medicine, biochemistry, fitness, hematology, immunology, nursing, ophthalmology, pharmacy, environmental health. Home About Posts Tagged ‘Nutrition’ Benefits of Probiotic Supplements ♫ Tuesday, March 1st, 2011 Probiotics are very helpful in rejuvenating the friendly bacteria in the bowel/gut of the human body. The probiotic supplements have been proven to be very helpful when a person suffers from a severe injury of the intestine. In case a person gets injured, the percentage of friendly bacteria in his body is likely to come down. Taking probiotic supplements can really help in revitalizing the lost beneficial bacteria. The following is a short list of the most recognized benefits of probiotics: • Children- With clinical studies that reveal the potential link between bacterial imbalances and the occurrence of childhood eczema in children, probiotics were employed as a remedy that not only reduced the symptoms of eczema, but also, on some occasions, eliminating it entirely. Infants given probiotic fortified formula experienced fewer instances of diaper rash for the same reasons. Minimizing the symptoms of acute diarrhea and rotavirus shedding are two other benefits of probiotics for children. • Adults – Men have experienced a lowering of overall cholesterol levels with the use of probiotics. In women, probiotics have proven to relieve symptoms of yeast infections by promoting the growth of vaginal flora (healthy vaginal bacteria). Because of the well-known ability of probiotics to regulate the digestive process, the elderly have experienced marked improvements in episodes of constipation. • Digestive Disorders – With multiple causes like stress, travel, infection and the use antibiotics that can upset the balance of bacteria in the digestive tract, symptoms of digestive disorders can include constipation, gas, diarrhea and discomfort. If left untreated, symptoms such as these can cause other problems like disruption of the immune system. However, the use of probiotic supplements or eating foods containing probiotics can bring the natural bacterial balance back into line allowing the body to self correct and reduce symptoms of discomfort. By promoting the growth of flora in the colon, particular forms of acidophilus found in probiotics can stop the conversion of bile into carcinogens thereby inhibiting autoimmune disorders. Likewise, active bacterial cultures in certain strains of probiotics can create lactase enzymes that counteract the effects of lactose on those who are intolerant. This is why many people with lactose intolerance are capable of eating yogurt with active culture. • Bioavailability – The body’s capacity to absorb nutrition from food is known as bioavailability. Probiotics increase bioavailability by breaking down complex hydrocarbons, which allow for superior absorption. The use of probiotic supplements allow the body to regulate itself in a natural way. This allows a person to increase quality of life, avoid common discomforts and lead a healthier lifestyle. Align daily probiotic supplement can help restore your natural balance, building & maintaining a strong, healthy digestive system. Align is intended for people with healthy digestive function who are looking for help with occasional digestive upsets or who are interested in promoting their digestive health. With Align, you can reclaim your freedom to travel, eat out, and enjoy life without the same interruption of these occasional digestive upsets, and help restore the natural balance of your digestive system. Get more information on Align, please visit at Aligngi.com . ♫ Posted in Nutrition | No Comments » How To Take Care Your Pet Health ♫ Monday, April 20th, 2009 When we nourish pets that we love it means we have  to care about your pet’s health. The health of your pet can depend upon its age, breed and environment. One of the most important things you can do to make sure your pet lives a long and happy life is to watch and care for its nutrition. Beside, we need care these tips so that our pets always heahlthy. That is why there are some things that you should think about for your pet. Obviously you will want it to be happy, and you should therefore make sure that you are feeding it well, with nutritious and healthy food. This doesn’t mean going overboard and giving your dog steak every day, but there are plenty of good quality pet food brands on the market and if you choose one of these it should keep your pet happy and healthy. Another thing you may wish to give consideration to is housing and space. Make sure you have enough space for the pet you choose. While this is a matter of personal choice, it is generally not such a great idea to have a large dog in a small apartment. If you don’t have a garden then make sure you take your dog out for a walk every day and let it get the exercise it needs. Physical exercise is very important to an animal’s well being, both mental and physical. As far as health goes, you may wish to have you pet visit the vet for health check-ups. At least have necessary injections provided and other treatments that are recommended for the animal you have. This not only benefits the pet’s health but yours and your families also if they are in close contact with the animal. While vet costs can be very expensive, it is now possible to get pet insurance that will cover all the costs that may be incurred by vets. This is very important for your pet as many trips to the vet may not seem vital, but in fact are very important to an animal’s health and if you have insurance to cover the costs, you are far less likely to put the visit off and instead you will go and give your pet the treatment it needs. Pet insurance is growing rapidly in popularity as people who genuinely care about their animal, but are not in a position to meet the potentially very high costs of treatment realize that they can provide everything their pet needs at an affordable monthly price. In sum, life environment, nutrition, exercises, pet insurance are influent to our pet’s health very much. So we have to attend to them when we nourish pets. ♫ Posted in Pet Health | No Comments » Search for: Recent Posts Lasik Dallas – The Best Place For You Lasik Eye Surgery – How much does it cost ? Site of the Month for August 2011 More about Foods That Can Improve Mental Health Tips for Great Dental Health Leading Health Care Consultants Benefits of Probiotic Supplements Categories Anti-Aging Beauty Cataract Surgery Dental Health Fitness General Massage Therapy Medicine Mental Health Nutrition Pet Health Pharmacy Software Vision Women's Health Calendar February 2012 M T W T F S S « Oct 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 Archives October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 June 2011 April 2011 March 2011 January 2011 August 2010 July 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 May 2009 April 2009 Tags Anti Aging Beauty Product Cataract Cataract Surgery Chiropractic Software Collagen Dermal Filler Cosmectic Dental Health Articles Dental Hygiene Exercises Eye Care Eye Glasses Fitness Fitness Training Generic Pharmacy Health Health Care Healthy Lifestyle High Blood Pressure High Blood Pressure Medication High Blood Pressure Treatment Internet Massage Therapy Men Menopause Medicine Menopause Treatments Mental Health Natural Approach Nutrition Online Pharmacy Osteoporosis Medication Osteoporosis Treatment Pet Health Pet Insurance Pharmacy Pharmacy Online Recession Shopping Skin Care Skin Cream Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative Colitis Treatment Utah Massage Therapy Weight loss Women's Health Blogroll Fitness Blog Health Insurance Blog Health Searching Healthy Park Life Insurance Blog Men Health Blog Pet Health Blog 