
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 13:04:29 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 13:04:29 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Keep  Up Your Kegels Contact Us | Advertise with Us | Sitemap only search this site . . . . . Care for Me Getting Back Into Shape Health and nutrition My postpartum body Keep Up Your Kegels Your Period After Pregnancy Exercising After Pregnancy Postpartum emotional concerns Care for Baby . . . . Keep  Up Your Kegels With nine months of pregnancy and the delivery of a baby,  many women find their vaginal muscles loosen, and they may experience urinary  incontinence or hemorrhoids. It is recommended that all pregnant women do Kegel  exercises to prepare them for the birth of their baby, and continue them soon  after delivery. Kegels are named after Dr. Arnold Kegel, who developed the  exercise. As the muscles of the pelvic floor become more conditioned during  Kegels, they are stronger and more flexible. The chance of perineum tearing and  damage during labor is reduced, since your perineum has been gently stretched  for your entire pregnancy. Also, there is less chance you'll need for an  episiotomy following delivery. If you do need to undergo an episiotomy or your  perineum does tear during labor, you will have a quicker recovery if you've  kept up your Kegels during pregnancy. Your risk of developing hemorrhoids is  greatly reduced, as your rectal area benefits from increased circulation during  the exercises. Some women find they have urinary incontinence during  pregnancy from the weight of the baby pressing on the bladder, and Kegels can  eliminate this or at least drastically decrease it. This loss of bladder  control can occur during crying, laughing or sneezing, and can be very  embarrassing The risk of developing a condition known as prolapse, which  is the uterus or other organs falling out of place after delivery, can also be  greatly reduced in women. One of the other benefits of Kegel exercises is  increased sexual pleasure. It's important to keep up your Kegels during  pregnancy and after birth so you can enjoy a normal sex life with your partner. To ensure that you're doing Kegel exercises properly, try  stopping in the middle of urination. Hold it and identify the muscles you are  using  these are the muscles you will use to strengthen the pelvic floor. If  you feel aches or muscle tiredness during your Kegel exercises, this is a sign  that you are squeezing the wrong muscles. Physicians recommend that you do around 200 basic Kegel  exercises per day. You can do them anywhere in the car on your way to a  doctor's appointment, or standing with your baby in the living room. You can  try variations on the basic Kegels: sustained Kegels involve holding the muscles  for ten seconds, then releasing. You can do progressive Kegels, where you  squeeze and hold for five counts, squeeze harder for five counts, then release  a little and hold for five seconds, release more and hold for five seconds. Be patient with your Kegel exercises. It will take at least  six weeks to notice any changes with incontinence, even at a rate of 200 per  day. If you're pregnant, you should begin doing Kegels at the beginning of  pregnancy. Don't wait until your final month of pregnancy to start, as you  won't see any of the benefits during labor. If you're diligent about keeping up  your Kegels, you'll notice many benefits over time. Local Guides All Local Guides Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut DC Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Preconception | Pregnancy | My Baby Names | Motherhood | Tools & Stuff | Shopping Stages of Pregnancy | Labor Positions | Breastfeeding | Breast Pumps | Other Resources Baby Shower Guide | Newborn Care | Baby Coupons | Pregnancy Myths Early Pregnancy Signs | Pregnancy Calendar Software | Chinese Pregnancy Calendar © Copyright 2006-2012 MyPregnancyGuide.com , a pregnancy information website. All Rights Reserved. This website is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any pregnancy complications. The information contained on this pregnancy site is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnosis, and treatment, consult your doctor. Contact Us | Advertise 