
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 06:24:52 GMT
Server: Apache
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 01 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 01 May 2012 06:24:53 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Connection: close

Whooping cough Dr. Beauvais E-books A Stress Free World Event Site Map Contact Us Main Menu Home Free Events Tai Chi Videos Tai Chi Photos Tai Chi Classes What is Tai Chi? Resources Testimonials Web Sources Dis-Ease Conditions Alternative Treatments Dr. Beauvais E-books Login Form Username Password Remember Me Forgot your password? Forgot your username? Create an account Polls What would make this site of more use to you? More Alternative Treatment Options More Natural Health & Beauty Products More Home Remedies Other Tai Chi Videos Chat with other guests/members Books CD's and Videos to purchase More photos All is well as is Whooping cough Written by Administrator Saturday, 25 July 2009 16:10 Whooping cough (pertussis) Reviewed by Dr John Pillinger , GP What is whooping cough? Whooping cough (pertussis) is still a very serious disease when it occurs in children under the age of one year old. But thanks to an effective immunisation programme, it's now quite rare. Before the vaccination against whooping cough was introduced in the 1950’s, there were more than 100,000 reported cases in England and Wales per year. Three out of four children caught the disease and some died every year. Today only a few get whooping cough, with less than 150 cases being reported in children aged four and under during 2007. What causes whooping cough? Whooping cough is caused by a bacteria (Bordetella pertussis) and is one of the most contagious bacterial infections. If one child in a group of siblings gets it, the other children are extremely likely to become infected if they have not already had the disease or been vaccinated. This also includes babies. Although infants who are breastfed are usually protected against most common childhood infections, they receive no protection against whooping cough. This is why early vaccination is recommended. Children with a cold or cough should be kept away from non-vaccinated children as well as women in labour and newborn babies. How is whooping cough contracted? The infection is transferred through airborne droplets when an infected person coughs. Anyone who has not been vaccinated is highly likely to contract the disease just by spending time in the same room as an infected person. Anyone who has been vaccinated or has suffered from whooping cough will have a degree of immunity to the disease. They may contract a mild case some years later but this will not develop into a full-blown attack. The incubation period - the time between contracting the infection and the appearance of the main symptoms - can vary from 5 to 15 days or even longer. Whooping cough is infectious from the first sneezes and throughout the course of the disease, which can last for up to eight weeks. This is a much longer period than with other children's diseases. What are the symptoms of whooping cough? The disease begins with symptoms of a cold and a mild, dry, irritating cough. After this, one to two weeks later, the typical coughing bouts set in. The coughing continues until no air is left in the lungs. After this comes a deep intake of breath that produces a heaving, 'whooping' sound when the air passes the larynx (windpipe) that gives rise to the name of the disease. The patient will eventually cough up some phlegm and these attacks may well be followed by vomiting . The child's temperature is likely to remain normal, but can become slightly raised. A bout of whooping cough can be very distressing for both the child and the parents who feel unable to help. Coughing attacks occur on average around 15 times a day and the disease can last for up to 12 weeks. How does the doctor make the diagnosis? The diagnosis is usually made from the symptoms and the history of contact with a person suffering from whooping cough. In case of doubt, the doctor can take swabs from the nose and throat for analysis and have the results in about five days. In older children and adults with whooping cough, the symptoms are often far milder and the condition is often not diagnosed. The diagnosis can also be made from blood tests, but these are often avoided in young children owing to their invasive nature. A new enhanced surveillance test for pertussis was launched by the Health Protection Agency in 2007. The test involves taking a specimen by brushing along the gumline with a saliva-collecting device. It’s used to estimate antibody levels directed against a toxin produced by the bacterium and is suitable for assisting in the diagnosis of those patients who have been coughing for more than two weeks and are suspected of having whooping cough. Complications While whooping cough is very unpleasant, there may also be other complications, such as bronchitis , pneumonia and ear infections . These complications may cause a high temperature , and change the course of the disease. If one or more of these problems occur, they will usually be treated with antibiotics . How is whooping cough treated? Most cases of whooping cough require no specific treatment. Infants and small children with other conditions such as asthma require constant monitoring which, at least for a while, is best done in a hospital. The effects of antibiotics are uncertain but they are sometimes used in the early period of the disease. Vaccination is recommended. How does one prevent the infection? Just as significant as vaccination is the need to prevent infection spreading, especially to small children. This is especially important for children in nursery school. If there are infected children in childcare, other infants under the age of one year should not be admitted unless they have had whooping cough or have been vaccinated against it twice, with a period of four weeks between vaccinations. If the children are more than one year old they may be admitted even if they have not had the disease themselves or been vaccinated. But the parents must be informed of the danger of infection. If whooping cough occurs at home, no special measures are necessary. Which medicine can be used? There is no medical treatment against whooping cough as such. However, the infectious period may be reduced by giving certain antibiotics (such as erythromycin (eg Eryacne) ). Who should be vaccinated? The vaccination takes place at the age of two, three and four months as part of the 'five-valent' diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, polio, Hib vaccine (Pediacel) . After the first two vaccinations protection is almost 100 per cent. The vaccination policy is aimed at protecting young babies who are most at risk and works very well in protecting against severe disease. In 2001, a preschool booster vaccination (Infanrix-IPV+Hib) was introduced and is offered between the ages of three years and four months and five years. It’s advisable that all children should be vaccinated against whooping cough, as it is important to prevent this dangerous disease. Copyright © 2011 Tai Chi With Dr. Beauvais Global Health News Latest Health News and Medical News posted throughout the day, every day. Fibers That Control Heart Rhythm Revealed By 3D X-Ray Scientists at the University of Liverpool have developed a new X-ray technique to identify tissue fibres in the heart that ensure the muscle beats in a regular rhythm... Improving Treatment For Musculoskeletal Ski/Snowboard Injuries As skiing and snowboarding continue to be the most popular winter sports, they also carry a significant risk of injury. One new exhibit will show how radiologists can meet these injuries head on with proper patient management and the latest imaging techniques. "It is important for radiologists to understand these injuries patterns," said Dr. Hillary Boortz, lead author for this exhibit... Younger Women Benefit From Mammography Researchers from University Hospitals (UH) Case Medical Center and Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine have published new findings that mammography remains beneficial for women in their 40s... Web Links Featured Links: Myvemma.com/Lupe Joy visit