<http://www.aloe-vera-studies.org/?p=309>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

ALOE VERA GEL WARNING | Aloe-Vera-Studies.org Aloe-Vera-Studies.org Search Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Aloe Vera Gel: Amazing Uses From a Simple Plant Tweet Tweet Aloe Vera >> Aloe Vera Gel Aloe Vera is an amazing plant. It is easy to grow, easy to store and easy to maintain. Aloe vera gel , juice and supplements are available just about anywhere that you can buy medicinal products or natural products. For centuries the eastern world has been using aloe vera gel to treat just about every condition under the sun. The western world started catching on to its usefulness in the early twentieth century. Since then, its acceptance and use has spread like wildfire. Now it seems like everybody knows of at least a couple of things that they can treat by using aloe. Aloe Vera Gel For Rheumatoid Arthritis Taking aloe vera in supplement is said to help ease the pain of rheumatoid arthritis. Some people who take aloe vera gel analgesics report that they see a weakening of their symptoms and an improvement in their overall quality of life. Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that can greatly reduce a person’s quality of life because it affects how they do every day tasks that most of us take for granted. People who suffer from this condition have constantly painful and stiff joints. Aloe vera supplements are said to help ease their joints, loosen them up and reduce the swelling that this disease creates. In addition to being able to move more easily, those who take these herbal remedies report feeling better in other areas of their life as well. Aloe Vera Gel For Skin Conditions Everybody knows that aloe vera can be used for sunburns. It can also be used on wounds and acne. But you might not know that other types of skin conditions are reported by some people as remedied by taking aloe vera gel each morning. Aloe vera is said to increase the skin’s collagen production which can make it softer, more elastic and more resilient against agents that might otherwise harm it. Some people suffering from chronic skin conditions report seeing a drastic reduction in their symptoms and flare ups after taking aloe vera supplements. Aloe Vera Gel For Acne In addition to helping with sunburns, aloe vera gel is said to be good for skin conditions like acne. Acne can be treated in many different ways: diet, exercise and through a skin care regimen. Cleansers and moisturizers and toners are all great for keeping the skin clear and pimple free but when breakouts do occur, aloe vera gel is said to be a wonderful herbal helper. The topical application of aloe vera has been known to soothe skin and to help it heal, which makes it perfect for the occasional breakout. Some people believe that aloe vera can even help to give you softer skin. Aloe Vera Gel For Wounded Skin Aloe vera contains a bunch of amino acid that can be used to help heal skin when it is wounded. This is one of the reasons why so many natural healers recommend using it when you get a burn or a scrape or a cut. A salve is made from the crushed leaves of the plant and applied topically. It can also be made by mixing the aloe vera gel with a thickening agent and spread over the top of a skin injury. The juice helps keep the wound from getting irritated and promotes faster healing. This is reported by some aloe enthusiasts as one of the best ways to treat cuts and scrapes that happen during outdoorsy adventures. Aloe Vera Gel For Hair Loss Some people have insisted that taking aloe vera gel can help them grow hair! Forget the commercials for the spray on hair. Forget buying toupees. Try taking aloe vera supplements instead. Hair contains a lot of collagen and aloe vera gel is said to increase the collagen production in the skin, which promotes hair growth. Who knew that preventing baldness and keeping your hair thick and healthy could be as easy as taking a simple herbal supplement each day? It is at least what some people say – didn’t have the opportunity to try this out myself… yet! Aloe Vera Gel For Digestion Some people use aloe vera gel supplements for digestion trouble. Some who have suffered from heartburn and stomach problems say that taking aloe vera regularly helps them cut down on these problems and helps them eat regularly. Heartburn is more than a simple inconvenience. For many people, heartburn is a terrible, recurring condition. Aloe vera is said to help keeping heartburn under control so that a person does not have to be quite as careful about when or what he eats. Of course always consult a doctor before following advices you read on the internet. It is said that aloe vera gel can help restore dietary freedom to people who suffer from sensitive stomachs as well. Aloe Vera Gel And Your Digestive Tract Do you suffer from problems with your bowels? In addition to general digestion aid, aloe vera gel could potentially help keep your bowels moving and many people claim that it is a powerful treatment for constipation. Constipation is a very unpleasant and, often, painful condition in which your body is not able to rid itself of waste via bowel movements. The waste stays in the body and over time can cause a variety of health issues. Drinking just a couple of ounces of aloe vera gel each day is said to help you keep from getting “stopped up”. There are lots of other natural products that can help with this as well. Fiber is an especially well known natural remedy for people who have problems with their bowels. The active cultures in yogurt can also aid your digestion. It is said that gel from the aloe plant can help every part of your digestive system from your esophagus to your bowels. If regularity has ever been a problem for you, some of this stuff could help fix you right up! Aloe Vera Gel For Bronchitis If you have ever suffered from bronchitis or had to deal with a recurring cough, you will be happy to know that aloe vera gel is said to help fight your cough as well. All of the anti-oxidants in aloe vera are said to help increase your blood flow and cell production. These things are said to help strengthen your lungs so that you can potentially fight against the bacteria that threaten to invade your bronchioles and increase your mucous production (the condition that exacerbates your cough and keeps it going). Aloe Vera Gel For Headaches Do you suffer from headaches? Aloe vera gel is said to help for this too! One of the main reasons that people suffer from headaches is dehydration. Aloe vera application is said to moisturize the skin as well as increase the body’s blood flow and capillary dilation. If this is true, then these things help increase the amount of oxygen and moisture the brain receives, which can go a long way to helping with your headaches — not to mention the hydration you get from drinking the juice itself! Aloe Vera Gel For Oral Hygiene Some people affirm that your oral hygiene could be greatly stepped up by using aloe vera gel. Keeping your teeth, gums and tongue healthy is very important to your overall health. You already brush your teeth at least twice a day, floss and use mouthwash. You know how important it is for your mouth to get fluoride to fight against plaque and cavities. Why not take some aloe supplements or drink some aloe vera gel as well? Your mouth could thank you for the added boost in its protection. Aloe Vera Gel For Your Circulatory System Drinking just a couple of ounces of aloe vera gel every day is said to help improve your circulatory system. It is said to help keep bacteria out of your blood stream as well as keep your capillaries dilated, which in turns helps to ensure that your blood is able to flow quickly and easily throughout your body. I personally have not seen any serious study or scientific evidence about this but this is what some aloe enthusiasts report on the internet. It is said that it could also promote cell growth which is good for all parts of your body. You know how important it is to keep your circulatory system in working order. After all, the blood pumping through your body is vital! You’ve heard about keeping clogging agents (like cholesterol) out of your arteries, but how often are you told to keep your capillaries dilated? Both are essential to staying alive. Aloe Vera Gel For Cleaning Your Body Aloe Vera is said to help detoxify your body. In addition to adding helpful components to your system, aloe vera gel is said to help your body expel the toxins and other substances that work to break it down. So many people think that the only way to detoxify your system is to do one of those master cleanses that has become so popular or to make themselves sweat profusely. Drinking the gel of the aloe vera plant – just a couple of ounces each morning – is said to help do the same thing. No need to sweat profusely or forego food for a few days. Aloe Vera Gel For Your General Health Your general health could potentially benefit quite a bit from the ingesting of aloe vera, as reported by many people all over the world. This plant is said to boost your immune system and help you stay healthy. Having a healthy immune system is important for fighting off bacteria and other germs that want to invade your body and turn it into a temple of phlegm. You probably already know that vitamin C helps keep you healthy but it is also said that taking supplements of the aloe plant could do the same or even more. Drinking the juice of the plant or taking a supplemental pill is reported by some people as a great way to boost your health and help fighting off illness and disease. There are so many reported benefits to drinking aloe vera gel that it is hard to pick just a few to feature in an article. Aloe vera is said to help you feel better, clear your skin, heal your wounds and pretty much do anything you could ever want it to do. It’s filled with anti-oxidants, nutrients and vitamins that the body needs to keep growing and stay strong. When it comes to herbal remedies, it seems that aloe vera gel is simply one of the best. Bookmark the permalink . 18 thoughts on “ Aloe Vera Gel: Amazing Uses From a Simple Plant ” M.Mohandas on December 10, 2011 at 7:51 am said: I am having diabetics and I had used for 2years.  It has very much helped me to reduce the problem. Reply ↓ | Tweet Norman S Jarvis on December 17, 2011 at 7:16 am said: mixed 3 ounces of pure aloe with one ounce of Colloidal Silver put in in a fine spritzer bottle and gave it to my friend for his cough he was fed up taking medicine that did not help…used it to inhale the mist as he breathed in and in 4 days showed up without a cough….a heavy smoker too, also a paramedic…we have been friends for years. I use it daily.. Reply ↓ | Tweet Aloe Vera Studies on December 20, 2011 at 5:48 am said: Just a warning to people reading this… Colloidal Silver should NEVER be taken internally. Its side effects are terrible to say the least as it can cause an irreversible blue/gray coloration of the skin: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argyria Reply ↓ | Tweet Shirley powers on March 24, 2012 at 6:00 pm said: That is nonsense. I have been taking silver colloidal daily for years now with absolutely no side effects. Just take a reliable brand. This is fear mongering perpetuated by the medical establishment. Reply ↓ | Tweet Patti on December 21, 2011 at 2:01 pm said: This sounds like a great idea and Id like to try it. What type of ALoe did you use , Gel or non-gel? Also not famiiar with Collodial Silver and what type to get.  Appreciate whatever you are willing to share. Thanks! Reply ↓ | Tweet RALPH MELEADY on February 8, 2012 at 5:42 am said: An amish lady I know well used silver and she is as grey as a a silver plate…her skin makes her look DEAD. She has been like this for years now and can not get rid of it…it is absolutely TERRIBAL… Reply ↓ | Tweet Stan on December 28, 2011 at 3:37 am said: I use both, the juice and the gel but the product is “Lily of the Desert”….as for colloidal silver…if it says “shake well before using”…don’t buy it. Silver goes back to an age where goblets and plates, knives and forks etc…were used and during that period there was very little sickness….this is in the history book about “COLLOIDAL SILVER” Reply ↓ | Tweet janet frendian on January 3, 2012 at 5:29 am said: As far as I know Aloe Vera Gel is excellent for any stomack  pain, am I right or not.  I used that for several months after my ankle surgery and it helps me a lot for my stiches and wounds.  I believe to that, but I would like to know if someonece who has unknown stomack pain will that help or not, becuase I know that is exccelent for stomack problems.  Please advise. Reply ↓ | Tweet Phil on February 7, 2012 at 11:04 am said: Just another positive statement about the efficacy of aloe vera juice. My mother (who died in 1998) was severely crippled in her middle age by rheumatoid arthritis. About 20 years before she died she heard about aloe vera juice and began taking it. In a remarkably short time she was pain free. Her joints were still crippled, but she said she could live with it, so long as the pain was gone. Reply ↓ | Tweet Tanya on March 4, 2012 at 11:55 pm said: I just bought some aloe Vera Juice from Wal-Mart ( affordable)because I think I have an ulcer; however the juice has a taste very much like Gator Ade and the Aloe Juice is quite salty tasting which I don’t like. Is Aloe Juice supposed to taste salty? Thanks very much Reply ↓ | Tweet Ali on March 14, 2012 at 9:00 pm said: Try taking it with pomegrante  juice you dont taste it Reply ↓ | Tweet dt on March 20, 2012 at 1:14 pm said: put it in a fruit or veggie smoothie it covers up the taste completly. Reply ↓ | Tweet Cheryl A Gordon on March 5, 2012 at 4:18 pm said: I am interested in finding out how to purchase the Aloe Vera gel or juice. Reply ↓ | Tweet Dianna Boyd on March 15, 2012 at 12:54 am said: I have a hard time finding the quality Aloe vera drink. I am 67, a diabetic and hight blood pressure. My blood sugar had been greatly reduced from the Aloe I purchased at walmart Reply ↓ | Tweet Barbara on March 22, 2012 at 9:49 pm said: I got my aloe vera juice at Walmart but only but the cane sugar or honey bottles as there are bottles with fructose that is not a good sweetener. I also found different aloe vera drinks in China town sweetened with honey or cane sugar. Try to avoid glucose as it is modified from corn syrup from what I have read about it and is not digested by the body as easily as cane sugar or honey. Reply ↓ | Tweet Ambermudez on March 23, 2012 at 5:30 am said: I have some kind of stomach pain that comes and goes. It may either be gas or gallstones I was told to drink aloe  juice from herbalife and that would make it better is this true? Reply ↓ | Tweet janice connolly on March 23, 2012 at 6:11 pm said: what is the best aloe vera  capsules, gels, cream, and or juice, for skin problems, such as seborrheic dermatitis? please help…. very desperate… Reply ↓ | Tweet Prem Joshi on March 26, 2012 at 10:21 am said: I suffer fron chronic constipation. I ha tried metamucil,senakot and other remidies. Nothing worked. I am also taking 2 tablespoons of alo vera gel in the morning. It has not made any difference.  Please suggest what I should do now to relieve my constipation. Thank you so much for your help. Reply ↓ | Tweet Leave a Reply to Dianna Boyd Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. I have recently stumbled upon some research stating that aloe vera could be harmful in specific cases. It also seems that some brands of aloe vera juice are very nocive and should NOT be consumed. I will try to update my articles with this new information as soon as possible. In the meantime make sure to carefully check the ingredients of the aloe vera products you purchase. Try to get aloe vera gel in its purest form . Thank you. Blog this! Digg this post Share on Facebook Share via MySpace Stumbled Upon Tweet about it Bookmark Tell a friend Recent Comments Fabio on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! Nancy Gordon on Aloe Vera Use: Discover Aloe Amazing Uses Ataur Rehman Khan on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! Tom on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! BhuiYan on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! alyce on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! Prem Joshi on Aloe Vera Gel: Amazing Uses From a Simple Plant Emma B on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! Shirley powers on Aloe Vera Gel: Amazing Uses From a Simple Plant danielle on ALOE VERA JUICE BENEFITS: What You Should Know! Sitemap | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Terms | © Aloe-Vera-Stu