
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 20:15:11 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://dkmommyspot.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cold and Flu | dkMommy Spot dkMommy Spot Natural family living through herbalism, education, and eco-friendly products. About dkM About Our Product Reviews Advertise With Us Contest Rules Coupon Codes More Giveaways! Podcasts Recipes How to Boost Your Immune System Naturally 07. February 2012 · 1 comment · Categories: Cold and Flu , Health , Herbalism , Remedies · Tags: balsam root , echinacea , Herbalism , herbs , immune stimulants , natural antibiotics If you’ve been wondering how to go about boosting your immune system as naturally as possible, it’s time to take a closer look at herbs. We’re all concerned about the misuse of antibiotics and what that could mean during a real crisis, and it doesn’t look like any new antibiotics will be coming to our rescue any time soon. According to Bill Bryson, author of A Short History of Nearly Everything, “Although a few antibiotics have been toughened up a bit, the pharmaceutical industry hasn’t given us an entirely new antibiotic since the 1970′s.”  But we’re not about getting fearful around here. No, we’re not. We’re about taking charge, gathering some simple knowledge, and going forth with self reliance. With a little help from our botanical friends. First stop on the herbal train is – you guessed it – echinacea. This is not only the easiest to get in commerce, it’s one of the safest. You can take echinacea tincture for months on end without side effects, and it won’t wear out on you. Echinacea assists the body in building up its own defenses. In other words, it’s like a drill sergeant. He doesn’t fight for them – he teaches them to fight for themselves. The next herb we’ll look at is balsam root. Similar to echinacea in the way it works, balsam root is an especially good choice for those of us who tend to be immuno-deficient. You know, someone who seems to catch everything that comes around. If you’re one of those and you often feel cold and clammy, balsam root is your herb. It’s got a way of warming you up while it stimulates the immune system. A good combination, if you ask me! For either of these herbs, I’d recommend going with a tincture. You’ll get a lot more out of the plants that way. If you can’t find tincture, tea is your next best bet. While you may be missing some constituents, as long as the tea is fresh, you’ll still be reaping many benefits. And while we’re talking tea, getting bulk herb is often better quality and much cheaper than getting tea bags. Don’t forget to eat healthy foods to boost that immune system, either. Yes, dark green leafy veggies are ideal. Don’t feel like munching on a pound of raw kale? Green smoothies make it much easier to get plenty of vegetables in your diet. Taking these ideas into consideration, you can make it through the rest of the winter “grunge” season with fewer concerns. And fewer antibiotics. For more ideas on how to boost your immune system naturally, as well as helpful info on fighting colds and flu with herbs, subscribe to this blog or check out my ebook Herbs Gone Wild ! More Simple Cold and Flu Remedies 17. December 2009 · 3 comments · Categories: Cold and Flu , Remedies · Tags: cold and flu remedies , cough , fever , stuffy nose Find the dkM Giveaways here! Christmas Cold got you Down? Hopefully your family will get through the  holiday season with nary a sniffle.  But in the event you do pick up a cough, a sneeze, a chill and a shake, you’ll want some remedies to keep you and yours comfortable until it all blows over.  (Excuse me – I’ve been reading too many children’s Christmas stories of late and my verbiage is running away without my sense of taste following it.) Sore Throat :  Your little one has a scratchy throat and doesn’t want those medicinal cough drops that have been in the bottom of your purse since last season. What do you do?  Squeeze 1/2 a lemon in a glass of mineral water (or tap if that’s what you have), add a large spoon of honey, and stir until it dissolves as best as you can.  Alternatively, you can prepare some very strong ginger tea, add some honey and lemon juice, and when it’s cool add a little mineral water for some fizz. Cough :  Yes, it’s been proven. A simple spoon of honey is just as effective as your average over-the-counter cough syrup.  And it doesn’t contain alcohol, artificial colors and flavors, nasty things that make kids buy and sell it on street corners, a taste that could gag a…  well, you get the point.  Try it alone or use my homemade cough syrup recipe .  Honey.  Tastes great, less coughing. Fever :  Too often we parents freak out when we our kids get a fever.  But don’t forget, a fever means the body is working hard to fight the virus.  High fevers and lasting fevers always warrant a call to the doc (as well as any that make your parenting radar say, “Hey, this just doesn’t feel right”).  A little fever is one thing, but to break a fever, you can try ginger tea or a nice garlicky meal.  For the brave at heart, a raw clove of garlic nibbled on will conk out that fever faster than you can say “Why do I have the sweats?”  It will also chase away vampires and family members. Stuffy Nose :  A few drops of Eucalyptus oil in a humidifier that has a special reservoir for oils can easily clear not only stuffy noses but a congested chest.  Or mix a few drops of the oil in about a 1/2 oz. of olive or sweet almond oil for a chest rub.  Or go to this cute little online store I know where they (okay, I) sell a handy Breathe Deep roll-on with a delightful blend of essential oils. In the end, I sincerely hope you and your family enjoy a wonderful holiday season without having to endure a cold or flu you got for free with your Christmas shopping.  But if you do encounter an untimely virus, these few simple remedies may just make things more bearable. An Herbal Remedy for Children’s Cough and Sore Throat 14. December 2009 · 2 comments · Categories: Cold and Flu , Remedies · Tags: cold and flu remendies , licorice root tea , natural remedies Find the dkM Giveaways here! It wasn’t such a big deal, but my son woke up with a cough last week.  I promptly cracked open a new bottle of Echinacea tincture, and I credit that with the fact that the “cold” hasn’t progressed beyond the occasional cough or need for a tissue.  But that first day, there was coughing and complaining that his throat felt “spicy”, what I can only imagine is toddler talk for a sore throat.  So I made him one of my favorite cough and sore throat teas. Licorice root is a soothing herb that most kids enjoy because it’s sweet and pleasant tasting.  If you’re imagining the overpowering taste of cold and flu liquids, black jelly beans and the like, you’d be surprised to discover licorice root tea is much more mild.  Yes, it’s a very flavorful tea, but most people rather enjoy it.  It’s naturally quite sweet, so there’s no need to add sugar or honey to the tea.  Another great benefit, since sugar and illness don’t mix. Licorice root is great for coughs, sore throats, and lung ailments such as bronchitis.  To enjoy the tea, I use about a teaspoon of dried licorice root in a cup of just boiled water.  I let it steep for about 10 – 20 minutes, depending on how potent of a flavor I prefer.  (Kids usually like it a little on the weaker side.)  Licorice root can be purchased whole, but I use it cut for tea as sold at The Giving Essence .  A very helpful herb to have around when cold and flu season call for a natural remedy for coughs and sore throats! How to Make Homemade Natural Cherry Cough Syrup 03. February 2009 · 8 comments · Categories: Cold and Flu , Remedies · Tags: homemade cherry cough syrup , natural remedies Click Here for Giveaways & Coupon Codes Add your giveaways here It seems whatever the body needs to heal, there’s a way to make it at home and natural.  Take, for instance, this recipe that will show you how to make a homemade and natural cherry cough syrup – no alcohol, no chemicals.  Just good old fashioned know-how. You will need: 2 cups cherries 2 cups honey a lemon water Put the cherries in a pan and just cover them with water.  Add the honey and some lemon slices – at least half the lemon.  Simmer carefully until the cherries are completely soft and you’re able to remove the pits.  Also remove the lemon.  Place the mixture into a jar and store it in the refrigerator. You can use several tablespoons whenever you need – no concerns about overdosing with this recipe! If you liked learning about how to make things like this homemade cherry cough syrup, I’ve got plenty more where that came from!  Check out my Remedies and Cold and Flu categories for more ideas on cold and flu remedies etc. Natural Cold & Flu Remedies for Kids & Adults too! 29. December 2008 · 5 comments · Categories: Cold and Flu , Health , Herbalism , Remedies · Tags: childrens health , Cold and Flu , natural remedies Click Here for Giveaways & Coupon Codes It’s been over a year since my son’s last cold, and thankfully this one seems only to have lasted not even two days, with just the sniffles left as a reminder.  I’m so grateful to have discovered some great herbs and natural remedies.  I credit these herbs and remedies, along with good diet, for my son’s quick recovery from viruses.  Whenever one of us gets sick, I grab every appropriate cold or flu-fighting remedy I know and get to work, and whenever this happens, I get the urge to blog about it and share anything new I’ve discovered. Everytime someone in the house sneezes a suspicious sounding sneeze, the first thing I do is whip out a bottle of Super Echinacea tincture from Herb Pharm , which I swear by.  I know some people poo-poo Echinacea, even saying you’re weakening your immune system by not “allowing” exposure to viruses.  But believe me, you’re still exposed.  The difference is, you’re able to fight it off better by giving strength to the immune system you have.  So by making sure everyone in the family has some Echinacea this time of year, you’re doing everyone a favor.  When someone comes home feeling under the weather, make sure the whole family gets a few doses of Echinacea a day, and give a little extra to the one with the virus.  Sometimes I’ll do three or four doses a day (about one dropper) for a sick one, but you can do even more (a full dose every hour or two for severe infection) with no fears of overdosing on Echinacea.  And no, there’s no scientific proof that you’ll grow immune to it. I’ve also been giving my son Herb Pharm’s Children’s Herbal Compound which contains chamomile, fennel, and catnip.  This combination has helped him get over that sick feeling, and he’s been able to rest without tossing and turning.  It’s also great for lowering a fever. For a great tea, I’ve been blending a few herbs together .  Try two parts stinging nettle to one part licorice root and one part rose hips.  The nettle is loaded with vitamins and minerals, licorice root sweetens the tea and aids with sore throats and coughs, and rose hips have extra Vitamin C. An easy remedy for cough and clearing the nose and lungs is to purchase a humidifier with a vaporizer reservoir built in.  Instead of using over-the-counter vaporizing liquids, use plain and simple Rosemary Oil .  It’s not too potent like Eucalyptus can be for babies and small children, and the scent is soothing. Of course there’s always the Breathe Deep spray I have at The Giving Essence.  That contains Rosemary, Eucalyptus, Lavender, and Peppermint Oils which help unclog a stuffed nose and soothe irritated, congested lungs.  My son always says, “That smells gooood!” whenever I spray it for him.  Such a supportive child… I also keep homeopathic tablets especially for colds and flu in our house at all times.  I swear by their effectiveness and would never be without.  The two brands I’ve tried are Hyland’s and Boericke & Tafel.  Ask at your local health food store about which ones would be best for you.  There is a wide variety and it can get overwhelming without a little advice.  But no worries – homeopathic remedies are some of the safest of products. Combine these remedies with continued healthy eating and some green smoothies filled with leafy greens, fresh fruit, and other goodies (cucumber, sprouts, etc.), your family can overcome colds and flues much quicker than you thought possible!  Natural remedies abound when it comes to caring for your family, and if you’re willing to try them, you’ll be amazed at how effectively they work! For more ideas, listen to my podcast interview with Ed Smith. He has lots of advice for caring for little ones naturally. «  Older articles Subscribe to dkMommy Spot by Email Where Diane Studied Herbs MORE THAN Travel insurance - Single Trip from Just £7.76 and Annual from £24.98.  24hr Travel Helpline. Premier & Economy Cover Options. Get a quote! Free helplines for legal advice, medical advice and post-accident counselling, plus get 20% off our car breakdown cover with MORE THAN car insurance . UK based personal customer manager. Get a quote. Apply at MORE THAN Life insurance and we'll give you the best quote from our panel of leading insurers to help find you the cheapest life insurance policy. Prices start from only £5 a month. Our free contents offer could save you on average £136 on your home insurance . New for old cover, freezer food cover, emergency accommodation up to £100,000 and garden contents cover as standard - get a quote! With MORE THAN Van insurance you get  in vehicle equipment cover, EU Travel cover and a 24hour professional claims service Ò all as standard. Get a quote today. Buy our pet insurance online and benefit from a 20% discount! From 8 weeks old onwards, we cover your cat or dog regardless of its age. Up to £2million liability cover & up to £7k vet fee cover. Get a quote today. © 2011 dkMommy Spot. All