Review: NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light and Ion Therapy Lamp - SAD Lights Headquarters - SAD Lights Headquarters
SAD Lights Headquarters
Complete reviews about the best SAD Lights, SAD Lamps, and other Light Therapy products including tips, recommendations, and more!
Subscribe via RSS
Home
By Type
Blue Light Therapy Lights
Dawn Simulators
Desk SAD Lights
Portable SAD Lights
SAD Light Boxes
White Light Therapy Lights
Top SAD Lights
Top SAD Lights Overall
Top Dawn Simulators
How To’s
How To Buy A SAD Light
How To Buy A Dawn Simulator
How To Buy Replacement Bulbs
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Review: NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light and Ion Therapy Lamp
Thursday, June 20th, 2013	at 5:43 pm
Rating:
The NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light and Ion Therapy Lamp is perfect for those who wants a more affordable light therapy solution for their desk, sitting areas, or next to their bed. It’ll also appeal to those who want to take advantage of negative ions and their benefits, more on that later. Much like other light therapy lights, it yields 10000 LUX at 12 inches of distance, doesn’t flicker, produce noise, or flicker. It’s recently been a very popular option for those who have been looking for a way to alleviate unwanted moods or sleeping patterns.
Where To Buy?
I highly recommend that you buy this lamp from Amazon.com (check current discounted price), they have it for over 50% off and you can have it shipped to you for free. Other websites will try to get you for a much higher price and make you pay for shipping as well. Over 420 people have bought this lamp from Amazon as well, which speaks volumes about how popular it is and how many people are buying it from Amazon.
Here’s A Good Video
I like this video because he’s a guy explaining how light therapy has worked for him. In the back, you can see the NatureBright SunTouch Plus turned on.
Who’s It For?
The NatureBright SunTouch Plus will help those who suffer from depression, seasonal affective disorder (winter depression), insomnia, irritability, menstrual cycle pain, and other mood related disorders. Light has a very powerful effect on how it produces and regulates our hormones. It’s extremely important to have a good balance of light exposure in your day to day.
This specific light is also good for those who want to take advantage of negative ion therapy. The NatureBright SunTouch fills the room with negative ions, which helps us to feel more clear and energetic. You can read more about them here. A good example is a thunderstorm. When a thunderstorm builds, the air is filled with positive ions, giving us signs of stress and anxiety. However, when that storm clears, the air is filled with negative ions, which is very refreshing. We all can relate to that feeling after a storm clears.
How Is It Supposed To Be Used?
It should be used about 20-30 minutes a day at a distance of about 12 inches from your face. No, you won’t get a sun burn because these therapy lights are UV filtered. Some people can start the feel the effects in as little as a few days, some may take weeks or months. You’ll have to be consistent with it and build it in your daily routine. It also does come with a built in timer of 15 minute intervals, so you don’t have to keep track of how much time has passed in order to turn it off.
NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light Key Features
Produces 10000 LUX at 12 inches
Has a built in timer of 15, 30, 45, and 65 minutes
Great for a desk, sitting area, or your bed side
Slightly portable, it’s a little big but it’s a no fuss device
Fills rooms with high density negative ions, can turn this on and off
No harmful UV rays, doesn’t flicker, or buzz
All 4 bulbs should last you a few years of regular use
What’s In The Box
NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Light and Ion Therapy
User’s Guide
Warranty certificate
Warranty
1 Year
NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light User Reviews
On Amazon.com, there have been over 420 customer reviews with an average rating of 4.4 out of 5 stars, which is extremely good for that amount of reviews. You can read a bunch of those reviews here.
Here are some rewritten pros and cons from those reviews:
Pros
“Helps me in the winter when I feel down in the dumps. Ever since I discovered it, I started feeling a lot better. I no longer dread having to live through winter again.”
“I was very skeptical at first, especially about the negative ions and whether they work or not. However, since this was so affordable, I decided to take the plunge. I’m a high believer in light therapy now. It really works for me.”
“I’ve been having issues with feeling alert and having daily headaches. This light therapy lamp seems to have fixed of those issues for me.”
Cons
“The Ionizer doesn’t smell very pleasant.”
“Difficult to sit down for 20-30 minutes a day when you have kids, so it’s hit or miss for me.”
Conclusion
There’s a world of features in the NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light and Ion Therapy Lamp at a very affordable price. The 10000 LUX, timers, ionizer, durability, portability are all things that you would usually pay a lot more for in other devices. The popularity of this model has sky rocketed. I highly recommend it.
What are your thoughts?
Have you tried this model? What’s your opinion?
Related Categories
SAD Light Boxes
Winter Blues Light
Filed under: Desk SAD Lights • White Light Therapy Lights
Like this post? Subscribe to my RSS feed and get loads more!
Comments RSS Feed
TrackBack URI
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Recent SAD Light Reviews
Review: Verilux VT20WW1 HappyLight Liberty Natural Spectrum Lamp
Review: Verilux VT05FWW1 HappyLight Energy Lamp
Review: Philips HF3520 Wake-Up Light
Review: Philips HF3500/60 Wake-Up Light
Review: Verilux Rise and Shine Natural Wake-up Light
Categories
Blue Light Therapy Lights
Dawn Simulators
Default
Desk SAD Lights
Portable SAD Lights
SAD Light Boxes
White Light Therapy Lights
Copyright © SAD Lights Headquarters