AOR Stress & Anxiety Supplement Reviews | Social Nature
Sign Up
Sign Up
Login
Sign Up
Sign Up
Login
Try Products
How It Works
Our Criteria
Our Story
Our Blog
Stress & Anxiety Supplement
By AOR
Buy Now
Rating (2,078 Reviews)
4.08 out of 5
Share It!
1
1
0
Email
Highlights
Stress & anxiety supplement
60 capsule bottle of AOR's Zen Theanine
A calming amino acid found primarily in green tea
Promotes a calm, relaxed alertness without causing drowsiness
Can be taken to help you focus, relax or fall asleep
Fast-acting and effective with one high-dose capsule
Description Ingredients
Zen Theanine contains L-theanine, a calming amino acid which is beneficial for those who suffer from stress and anxiety and find it difficult to focus, relax, or fall asleep. First discovered in 1949, L-theanine is a unique amino acid found in green tea which helps reduce nervousness and restlessness, promoting relaxation without causing drowsiness. L-theanine rapidly enters the body when ingested (within roughly 30-40 minutes) and relaxes the brain, calms racing thoughts and creates feelings of “zen” while promoting alertness and concentration. L-theanine influences the levels of the neurotransmitters dopamine, serotonin and GABA in the brain, balancing mood, sleep and learning capacity. L-theanine reduces feeling of stress by inhibiting some of the actions of norepinephrine (a stress hormone) in the central nervous system.
AOR’s Zen Theanine provides an optimal dose of L-theanine to provide fast-acting mental relaxation, with its stress reducing effects typically felt within 30 minutes of consumption.
L-Theanine 225mg
Non-medicinal ingredients: Mycrocrystalline cellulose
Capsule: hypromellose
AOR Reviews (2,078)
Where to Buy
Diane Z
Took every day. Within 3 days I was feeling more clear headed. And that’s amazing. I have 3 toddlers and I usually feel my sanity sinking daily. I felt revitalized and not ready to sink into the couch as soon as my kids fell asleep.
Reviewed April 20, 2019
DAUREEN B
I really like this product because there were no side effects at all. This pill is perfect for anyone that's having a stressful day it made me feel so relaxed and helped me through my hectic days. Thank you so much for this s supplement. #gotitfree #trynatural
Reviewed April 18, 2019
Coryna J
In this modern world, stress is everywhere. Luckily, I found Zen Theanine to help me out during my stressfull moments. I can easily take this pill during work and not have drowsiness. Also, I realized that this product has helped me be more productive !!
Reviewed April 15, 2019
Alissa M
I didn't get to use it as much as I wanted to, but when I did I did feel a sense of calm. I'd like to be more consistent with it and see what happens.
Reviewed April 12, 2019
Julia M
I could not tell how effective it was as it did not have much of an effect on me. I don’t know if it’s a good replacement for melatonin. It didn’t have the same immediate drowsy feeling melatonin gives me but it also didn’t give me a drowsy hangover the way melatonin can. I will use the rest of the bottle but probably wouldn’t buy this again.
Reviewed April 11, 2019
Load More
Company
Our Story
Our Team
Careers
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Learn More
How It Works
Help / FAQs
Our Criteria
#trynatural Blog
For Brands/Agencies
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2019 Social Nature
Notifications
Loading notifications...
Like Us on Facebook!
Be the first to know about new products, get exclusive invites and more.
×
We know you want it!
Create Account
Already have an account? Login