Vitamin D - Can the sunshine vitamin help reduce asthma atttacks?
Home
Categories A – L
Arthritis
Cancer
Cardiovascular
Child health
Communication & Engagement
Diabetes
Ear, Nose & Throat
Evidence for Everyday Allied Health
Evidence for Everyday Health Choices
Evidence for Everyday Midwifery
Evidence for Everyday Nursing
Features
Genetic conditions
Immunology & Infection
Lifestyle
Categories M – Z
Mental & Neurological
Musculoskeletal
Pain
Palliative care
Pregnancy & Childbirth
Respiratory
Sexual Health
Skin conditions
Stroke
Understanding Evidence
Women’s health
Vascular
Contact Us
About this blog
Search and hit
Go
Respiratory
Vitamin D – Can the sunshine vitamin help reduce asthma attacks?
By Lynda Ware	 September 6, 2016 // 0 Comments
TweetShare
Cochrane UK’s Senior Fellow in General Practice Lynda Ware looks at the new Cochrane review on Vitamin D for the management of asthma.
A new Cochrane review looked at precisely this question and found high quality evidence suggesting that it does!
What’s the story?
It seems to me that vitamin D – also known as the ‘sunshine vitamin’ – is very much in the limelight (or should that be sunlight?) right now. Its role in maintaining a healthy skeleton is well known but it may have other important actions. Low levels of vitamin D have been linked to an increased risk of asthma attacks in children and adults with asthma. It is thought that vitamin D has anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial functions in the lungs, which may explain why it could be beneficial.
What is Vitamin D?
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin. It’s present in a small number of foods such as oily fish, liver, red meat and egg yolks. In the UK, certain foods have vitamin D added to them, for example most margarines, some breakfast cereals and infant formula milk. There are also oral supplements which can be bought over the counter or prescribed by a doctor.
Our main source of vitamin D is from the action of sunlight (the UVB component) on our skin. Certain groups of people are at particular risk of not making enough vitamin D in this way e.g. the frail and housebound, residents of nursing homes, and people who wear clothes that cover up most of their skin. It has been suggested that in the UK it might make sense to take a vitamin D supplement from October to March, when there is insufficient UVB beaming down on us to optimally maintain our levels.
What did the Cochrane review find with regard to vitamin D and asthma?
The recent systematic review from the Cochrane Airways Group found nine double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trials of vitamin D in children and adults with asthma, which evaluated the risk of having an asthma attack and/or the level of symptom control. Two studies were in adults and involved 658 participants; seven studies were in children with 435 participants. The studies were conducted in Canada, India, Japan, Poland, UK and USA. Most of the participants had mild to moderate asthma and continued their regular asthma medication for the duration of the trial. The studies lasted from six to twelve months.
High quality evidence showed that giving vitamin D reduced the average number of asthma attacks and the risk of Emergency Department attendances and hospital admissions. These results can be represented diagrammatically :
There was no evidence to indicate that vitamin D brought about an improvement in lung function tests or in day-to-day symptoms. It was safe at the doses given.
So far so good…..
But why does Adrian Martineau, lead author of the review, advise caution before acting on these results?
Well, a few things remain unanswered…..
It is not clear whether giving vitamin D helps all patients with asthma – or just those who have low vitamin D levels. The majority of participants in the trials had mild to moderate asthma. It’s not certain whether those with more severe disease, and therefore at greater risk of asthma attack, are likely to benefit.
Further research
Individual patient data from the trials included in this review are being extracted to see whether benefits are restricted to those with lower vitamin D levels. New trials in children and adults who are prone to frequent asthma attacks are needed to determine whether vitamin D can prevent asthma attacks in these groups.
The bottom line
Asthma is a common chronic disease affecting about 300 million people worldwide. Despite greater understanding of the disease and its treatment, asthma was responsible for 1216 deaths in UK in 2014 – that’s about 3 people per day.
This systematic review highlights a possible role for vitamin D in preventing severe asthma attacks – cause, I believe, for cautious optimism….
Lynda Ware has nothing to disclose.
Links:
Martineau AR, Cates CJ, Urashima M, Jensen M, Griffiths AP, Nurmatov U, Sheikh A, Griffiths CJ. Vitamin D for the management of asthma. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2016, Issue 9. Art. No.: CD011511.pub2.
The Cochrane Library, Wiley Press Room [online]. 2016. High quality evidence suggests Vitamin D can reduce asthma attacks [press release]. 05 September 2016. Available from: http://eu.wiley.com/WileyCDA/PressRelease/pressReleaseId-127902.html
asthma
Cochrane Airways Group
respiratory health
vitamin d
vitamin supplementation
About Lynda Ware
view all posts
Lynda is a Senior Fellow in General Practice with Cochrane UK. Her background is in primary care and she was a GP partner in rural Oxfordshire for over thirty years with particular clinical interests in psychiatry and women's health. Since joining Cochrane UK in 2014, she has visited many village halls and community centres around Oxford talking to non-medical audiences about Evidence-Based Medicine and its relevance to everyday life. With a colleague, Lynda now visits schools to meet students from Years 10 to 13 to teach about EBM and to encourage critical thinking, particularly around health care claims made in the media. She blogs about Cochrane Reviews for the Evidently Cochrane website.
Vitamin D – Can the sunshine vitamin help reduce asthma attacks? by Lynda Ware
is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
E-Mail *
Web
Sign me up for the newsletter!
Search
Search
Email newsletter
Subscribe to our mailing list
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Select to receive a monthly digest from:
Evidence for Everyday Midwifery
Evidence for Everyday Nursing
Evidence for Everyday Allied Health
Email Format
html
text
Communication Permissions
Cochrane UK will use the information you provide on this form to be in touch with you and to provide updates. Please tick the box below to confirm that you are happy to hear from us via email.
Email
You can change your mind at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting us at general@cochrane.nhs.uk We will treat your information with respect. For more information about our privacy practices please visit our website. By clicking below, you agree that we may process your information in accordance with these terms.
We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. Learn more about Mailchimp's privacy practices here.
Leave this field empty if you're human:
We are on Facebook!
Facebook By Weblizar Powered By Weblizar
About Cochrane UK
Privacy Policy
About the Author
Contact Us
MailChimp for WordPress: Form Preview
Sample Page
Evidently Cochrane
Sharing health evidence you can trust
Search
Search
UA-49496932-1