Ovarian cysts - informedhealth.org
to the main navigation
to the search
to the content
to the service navigation
InformedHealth.org - independent, evidence-based
Contact us
Newsletter
Deutsch
Search
Search
Homepage
Topic areas
Topics: A to Z list
About us
Ovarian cysts
Topic
Ovarian cysts
Share PDF Print
Overview
Research summaries
Introduction
Symptoms
Causes
Effects
Diagnosis
Treatment
Further information
Sources
Introduction
(PantherMedia / goodluz) Ovarian cysts are fluid-filled sacs in the ovaries. Some have tissue inside them. The cysts are surrounded by a capsule and usually about the size of a cherry. Most ovarian cysts go away on their own.
These cysts often develop due to normal hormonal changes in puberty or during menopause. Sometimes ovarian cysts are already there at birth or are caused by something else, but that’s much less common.
It is estimated that about 10 out of 100 women have ovarian cysts. They are usually non-cancerous (benign) and rarely cause problems, so they generally don’t need to be treated. Surgery is only very rarely needed.
Ovary with a cyst
Return to top
Symptoms
Most women who have ovarian cysts don’t know that they have them. But some cysts cause dull pain in the lower abdomen (pelvic pain).
Ovarian cysts can also lead to problems with the menstrual cycle, such as heavy or irregular periods, or spotting (abnormal vaginal bleeding between periods). Menstrual cycle problems occur if the cyst produces sex hormones that cause the lining of the womb to grow more.
Very large cysts may push against the bowel or bladder. This can lead to a swollen tummy, a feeling of fullness and pressure, pain when urinating, or constipation.
If a cyst ruptures (bursts), it can be felt as a sudden pain – but usually doesn’t cause any other problems. The weight of the cyst can sometimes pull on the ovary and cause it to become twisted. This leads to sudden, severe, cramping pain on the affected side of the lower abdomen, as well as nausea, vomiting and a high pulse rate.
Return to top
Causes
Most ovarian cysts develop during one part of the menstrual cycle (the growth and release of egg cells). Known as “functional cysts,” these mainly occur in puberty or during menopause. They may develop in one ovary or in both ovaries at the same time.
These are the most common types of functional ovarian cysts:
Follicular cysts: Each egg cell is surrounded by a capsule known as a follicle. If the follicle doesn’t open and release the egg cell (if ovulation doesn’t occur), the follicle might gradually become filled with a fluid and turn into a cyst.
Corpus luteum cysts: These occur when a corpus luteum fills with blood. The corpus luteum develops from the follicle that released the egg cell during ovulation. It secretes the sex hormones known as progesterone and estrogen.
Theca lutein cysts: These mainly occur in women who have infertility treatment with hormones. The hormones stimulate the growth of egg cells in the ovaries. Cysts may develop as a side effect.
There is also a special type of cyst known as chocolate cysts (endometriomas). These are filled with dark, thick blood. They can develop as a result of endometriosis, for example.
Dermoid cysts (which are not functional cysts) are less common. They may develop if a non-cancerous tumor grows and it contains things like skin cells and sebaceous glands. Sebaceous glands produce an oily substance (sebum) that usually keeps skin moisturized. Because the sebum in this kind of tumor can’t “escape,” it builds up inside the cyst. Dermoid cysts might be there at birth. In rare cases they can turn into cancer (become malignant).
In another illness known as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCO), there are a lot of small cysts in the ovaries. Women who have PCO produce too many male sex hormones (androgens), which prevent the egg cells from maturing properly.
Return to top
Effects
Most ovarian cysts are only 1 to 3 centimeters in size and go away on their own within a few months. They only rarely grow large enough to cause severe symptoms. In very rare cases they grow as big as 15 to 30 centimeters.
Complications are also rare. They may occur if the wall of the cyst ruptures (bursts) and the fluid leaks out into the space around it. Although ruptures can be painful, they are usually harmless. Only rarely do they lead to bleeding that needs to be stopped through surgery.
A more serious complication may occur if the ovary becomes twisted around the tissue that supports it. Known as ovarian torsion, this mainly happens in women who have larger cysts – often after jerky movements, for instance when playing tennis. Ovarian torsion is very painful. It may also cut off the blood supply to the ovary. If that happens, surgery is needed as soon as possible to prevent the ovary from dying.
Return to top
Diagnosis
Ovarian cysts can be seen on an ultrasound. They are often discovered by chance, for instance when doing an ultrasound scan of the ovaries. Some cysts can be felt too.
If it is thought that you might have an ovarian cyst, the doctor will ask you about symptoms such as menstrual (period) problems and pain, and you may have a blood test.
Other examinations, such as a CT scan or laparoscopy (keyhole procedure to look inside your tummy), are only rarely needed. Diagnostic examinations are usually done to find out whether the changes in ovary tissue could be cancer. Although cysts are usually non-cancerous (benign), it’s not always easy to tell whether it’s a cyst or a tumor.
Research summaries
Does ultrasound screening for ovarian cancer help?
Return to top
Treatment
If a cyst causes no symptoms, or only mild symptoms, it’s usually okay to wait and see what happens. Most cysts go away on their own. Depending on the results of diagnostic examinations, it’s sometimes a good idea to go for regular check-ups (every month or every few months) so the doctor can keep an eye on the cyst. If the cyst is painful, painkillers such as ibuprofen or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can help.
If the cysts change over time or don’t get smaller and if the symptoms don’t go away, laparoscopy is an option. This procedure involves inserting thin instruments into the abdomen (tummy) through small cuts in the tummy wall. Doctors can then take a closer look at the cysts and remove them if necessary. But new cysts may develop after others have been removed.
In rare cases doctors suggest removing an ovary, or even both ovaries – for instance, if they think it could be cancer or that it will be difficult to cut the cysts out of the ovary tissue. Removing both ovaries can have a great impact on women’s lives, particularly women of childbearing age, because the operation immediately leads to menopause. The sudden drop in hormones can cause symptoms such as hot flashes, dizziness, headaches and nausea. And women can no longer become pregnant after menopause. Because of this, at least one ovary is kept, if possible – especially in women who wish to have (more) children.
Some doctors recommend treating ovarian cysts with the birth control pill. But the pill doesn’t help in the treatment of functional cysts. Although it reduces the amount of hormones produced in the ovaries and prevents ovulation, studies have shown that this doesn’t make the cysts go away any faster.
Return to top
Further information
When people are ill or need medical advice, they usually go to see their family doctor first. Read about how to find the right doctor, how to prepare for the appointment and what to remember.
Return to top
Sources
American College of Obstetricians, Gynecologists' Committee on Practice Bulletins - Gynecology. Practice Bulletin No. 174: Evaluation and Management of Adnexal Masses. Obstet Gynecol 2016; 128(5): e210-e226.
Grimes DA, Jones LB, Lopez LM, Schulz KF. Oral contraceptives for functional ovarian cysts. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014; (4): CD006134.
Gynaecologists RCoO. The management of ovarian cysts in postmenopausal women 2016.
Weyerstahl T, Stauber M. Gynäkologie und Geburtshilfe. Thieme: Stuttgart 2013.
IQWiG health information is written with the aim of helping people understand the advantages and disadvantages of the main treatment options and health care services.
Because IQWiG is a German institute, some of the information provided here is specific to the German health care system. The suitability of any of the described options in an individual case can be determined by talking to a doctor. informedhealth.org can provide support for talks with doctors and other medical professionals, but cannot replace them. We do not offer individual consultations.
Our information is based on the results of good-quality studies. It is written by a team of health care professionals, scientists and editors, and reviewed by external experts. You can find a detailed description of how our health information is produced and updated in our methods.
Return to top
Comment or share this page
CommentRecommendPrintPDF
What would you like to share with us?
We welcome any feedback and ideas. We will review, but not publish, your ratings and comments. Your information will of course be treated confidentially. Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required fields.
Please note that we do not provide individual advice on matters of health. You can read about where to find help and support in Germany in our information “How can I find self-help groups and information centers?”
Your comment about "Ovarian cysts" *
Your email address*
Send
Recommend this article
Your email address (required)
Recipient's email address (required)
Your comment
Recommend article
Share
Tweet
Labels: Cysts, N83, Ovarian cyst, Ovarian cyst, Reproductive health and birth, Women's health
Created March 28th 2019
Next update: 2022
How we work Published by the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG, Germany)
About the institute
About us
IQWiG
Informed Health
How our content is structured
Our approach
FAQs
Publishing details
Service
Contact us
Data protection policy
Newsletter
Using news feeds
Glossary
German Homepage
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.