How To Treat Runny Nose
Best Online MD
Health A-Z
Contact us
Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
Tumblr
Stumbleupon
Best Online MD Provides credible health information, comprehensive cancer information and medical news headlines posted throughout the day.
Health A-Z
Diseases & Conditions
Cancer
Health Informatics‎
HIV & AIDS
Skin Conditions
Symptoms
Drugs & Supplements
Family & Pregnancy
Children’s Health
Newborn & Baby
Parenting
Pregnancy
Sex & Relationships
Living Healthy
First Aid
Fitness & Exercise
Home Remedies
Men’s Health‎
Oral Health
Weight Loss & Diet Plans
Women’s Health
News
How To Treat Runny Nose
Runny nose is a condition where the nasal cavity is filled with a significant amount of mucus fluid. It is a common symptom of allergies or certain diseases, such as the common cold or hay fever. It can be a side effect of crying, exposure to cold temperatures, cocaine abuse or withdrawal, such as from opioids like methadone.
The terms “rhinorrhea” and “rhinitis” are often used interchangeably to refer to a runny nose. Strictly speaking, rhinorrhea refers to a thin, relatively clear nasal discharge. Rhinitis refers to inflammation of the nasal tissues from a number of causes, which usually results in a runny nose.
Causes
Runny nose can be caused by anything that irritates or inflames the nasal tissues. Infections such as the common cold and influenza allergies and various irritants may all cause a runny nose. Some people have a chronically runny nose for no apparent reason a condition called nonallergic rhinitis or vasomotor rhinitis (VMR).
Less commonly, runny nose can be caused by polyps, a foreign body, a tumor or migraine-like headaches.
Causes of runny nose include:
Acute sinusitis
Bright lights
Chronic sinusitis
Churg-Strauss syndrome
Cluster headache
Cold temperature
Common cold
Decongestant nasal spray overuse
Deviated septum
Drug addiction
Dry air
Dust mite allergy
Food allergy
Hay fever
Hormonal changes
Influenza (flu)
Latex allergy
Lodged object
Medications
Milk allergy
Mold allergy
Nasal polyps
Nonallergic rhinitis
Occupational asthma
Other infections
Peanut allergy
Perfume
Pet allergy
Pregnancy
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
Shellfish allergy
Soy allergy
Spicy foods
Spinal fluid leak
Tobacco smoke
Wegener’s granulomatosis
Wheat allergy
Treatment
Diphenhydramine (Benadryl) is an antihistamine used to treat the symptoms of sneezing, runny nose, and watery eyes. Its major side effect is drowsiness or sleepiness, so it also is the active ingredient in many OTC sleeping pills. Other nonsedating antihistamines are available for symptom control, including loratadine (Claritin), cetirizine (Zyrtec), and fexofenadine (Allegra).
Home Remedies
There are many over-the-counter medicines for a runny nose, but they often have unpleasant side effects like drowsiness. Many simple home remedies can give you instant relief and decrease the intensity of your symptoms, without any side effects.
1. Salt Water
Salt water is the best home remedy for alleviating the irritation that accompanies a runny nose. Salt water will help thin the mucus, making it easier and more comfortable to expel. It will also help clear the nasal passages of irritants.
Mix one-half teaspoon of table salt in two cups of distilled warm water.
Using a dropper, put a few drops of the solution into each nostril with your head tilted back.
Inhale very gently to draw the solution further into your nasal passages. Then blow your nose to remove excess mucus and solution.
Do this a few times at a sitting until you feel relief.
Repeat a couple of times each day until your condition improves.
2. Steam
Steam is also an effective home remedy for a runny nose. It helps clear out excess mucus that causes a runny nose and sneezing.
Hold your face over a bowl of hot water, with a towel over your head to trap the steam. Breathe in the steam for about 10 minutes, and then blow your nose. Do this three or four times a day.
You can also add a few drops of eucalyptus oil or menthol to the hot water before breathing in the steam.
Alternatively, you can take a hot shower or bath.
3. Mustard Oil
Mustard oil has antibiotic, antiviral and antihistamine properties that can provide instant relief from various symptoms of a runny nose.
Heat a small amount of mustard oil until it is slightly warm. Using a dropper, put one or two drops of the oil in each nostril. This will help clear up the nasal passages. Do this two or three times a day.
Add two to three tablespoons of mustard oil and one tablespoon of caraway seeds to a pot of boiling water. Inhale the steam. The strong aroma of mustard oil will warm up the respiratory system, thus providing instant relief from a runny nose. Do this twice daily.
Note: Mustard oil is edible, so you can use the oil for cooking too.
4. Turmeric
Turmeric works as an antidote for many health conditions, including a runny nose. The herb has strong antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and antiviral properties that make it very effective for treating a runny nose as well as a cold.
Soak one-half teaspoon of dry, ground turmeric in a cup of linseed oil. Hold the mixture over heat until it starts smoking. Slowly inhale the smoke through one nostril and then the other. Do this twice daily.
One-half teaspoon of turmeric powder can also be taken two times a day. You can take it with some water. This will help loosen the mucus in the body.
Mix one teaspoon of turmeric powder in a glass of warm milk and drink it before going to bed. This will offer quick relief from a runny nose, cough, cold, sore throat and also asthma. You can add a pinch of black pepper as well.
5. Ginger
Ginger has a wide range of antioxidants as well as antiviral, antitoxic, and antifungal properties that help provide quick relief from various symptoms of a runny nose.
Chewing small prices of raw ginger sprinkled with salt several times a day alleviates a runny nose quickly.
Cut ginger root into thin slices, put them in a cup of water and boil it for some time to make a tea. Add a little honey for taste and drink the tea three or four times a day.
Boil one teaspoon of ginger powder in two cups of water and inhale the steam.
Ginger can also be taken in the form of lozenges, which are available in the market, to prevent a runny nose.
6. Garlic
Garlic has strong antibacterial and antiseptic properties that make it a wonderful treatment for a runny nose.
Prepare garlic soup by boiling three or four cloves of chopped garlic in a cup of water for several minutes. Strain the solution, add some sugar and drink the soup twice a day.
Chew a small piece of garlic three or four times a day to warm up your body and get relief from a runny nose.
Garlic supplements can also be taken on a regular basis to prevent or reduce the frequency of a runny nose.
7. Eucalyptus Oil
Eucalyptus oil is a decongestant and can give you instant relief from a runny nose.
Heat a large bowl of water. Add seven drops of eucalyptus oil and four drops each of lavender oil and peppermint oil to it. Cover your head with a towel and lean over the bowl to inhale the scented steam. Do this two or three times daily.
You can also put a few drops of eucalyptus oil on a handkerchief and inhale it throughout the day to reduce your symptoms.
8. Honey
Honey has strong antibacterial and antiviral properties that help reduce the various symptoms of a runny nose.
Put two tablespoons of honey in a cup. Add a pinch of cinnamon powder and one-half tablespoon of lemon juice to it. Take this mixture twice daily.
Mix two teaspoons of honey in a glass of warm water. Drink this twice daily.
Mix one tablespoon of honey and three or four drops of fresh lemon juice in a glass of warm water. Drink it while it is still warm, twice daily. This remedy can help strengthen your immune system while fighting the runny nose.
9. Basil
Basil has antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral as well as strong healing properties that will warm your body inside and treat your runny nose.
Chew three or four basil leaves before breakfast every morning and before going to bed at night.
Eat two to three basil leaves with a little jaggery two times a day to get rid of a runny nose as well as the common cold.
Add eight to 10 basil leaves and five cloves to a cup of water. Boil it for 10 minutes. Add some sugar. Allow the solution to cool and then drink it. Do this twice daily.
10. Cayenne Pepper
Cayenne pepper acts as an antihistamine to clear up nasal congestion as well as help treat a runny nose. Cayenne pepper increases nasal discharge so that your body can flush out the blockage and toxins that are causing your runny nose.
It also helps increase circulation, which will warm you up. So, when suffering from runny nose, try to include more cayenne pepper while preparing your foods.
A runny nose will normally resolve in a few days after using one or more of these home remedies. However, if you develop a fever, cough or body aches, consult your doctor.
8 min read
4 years ago
by Jason Clark
Who is at Risk of Achalasia?
Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL): Treatment right after an injury
You may also like
Health Informatics‎
Asthma Attacks: Causes, Symptoms and Quick relief...
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
4 min read
Health Informatics‎
Antibiotics: Risks and Complications
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
4 min read
Health Informatics‎
Human Growth Hormone: The Benefit to our Body
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
4 min read
Health Informatics‎
Common Variable Immune Deficiency (CVID): Signs...
2 years ago
by Jason Clark
2 min read
Featured Posts
Kidney Cancer: Causes, Risk factors, Symptoms &...
Dyshidrotic Eczema Symptoms and Treatment
Obesity: Facts, Causes and Treatments
What is a spermatocele?
Candida infections: Causes & Treatment Options
IF YOU ENJOYED THIS POST, SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER
Name
Email *
Readers’ Choice
Asthma Attacks: Causes, Symptoms and Quick relief...
Tartar: Signs, Symptoms, Prevention & Removal
Antibiotics: Risks and Complications
Mononucleosis: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments
Human Growth Hormone: The Benefit to our Body
Most Popular
Wilms’ tumor: Types, Sign, Symptoms &...
Head and Neck Cancer: Symptoms, Diagnose &...
Tumor: Causes, Biopsy procedures & Treatments
Talked About
Home Remedies
Rash Home Remedies 101
Home Remedy for Varicose Veins
Home Remedy for Menstrual and Abdominal Pain
©2014 - 2017 Best Online MD. All rights reserved.
Advertising Information
Contact us
Disclaimer
Terms of Use
www.bestonlinemd.com