10 Proven Benefits of Green Tea
Newsletter
Nutrition
Evidence Based
10 Proven Benefits of Green Tea
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc on January 17, 2018
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Green tea is the healthiest beverage on the planet.
It is loaded with antioxidants and nutrients that have powerful effects on the body.
These include improved brain function, fat loss, a lower risk of cancer and many other impressive benefits.
Below are 10 health benefits of green tea that are supported by studies.
1. Green Tea Contains Bioactive Compounds That Improve Health
Share on Pinterest
Green tea is more than just liquid.
Many of the plant compounds in the tea leaves do make it into the final drink, which contains large amounts of important nutrients ().
Tea is rich in polyphenols that have effects like reducing inflammation and helping to fight cancer.
Green tea is about 30 percent polyphenols by weight, including large amounts of a catechin called EGCG. Catechins are natural antioxidants that help prevent cell damage and provide other benefits.
These substances can reduce the formation of free radicals in the body, protecting cells and molecules from damage. These free radicals are known to play a role in aging and all sorts of diseases.
EGCG (Epigallocatechin Gallate) is one of the most powerful compounds in green tea. It has been studied to treat various diseases and may be one of the main reasons green tea has such powerful medicinal properties ().
Green tea also has small amounts of minerals that are important for health.
Try to choose a higher quality brand of green tea, because some of the lower quality brands can contain excessive amounts of fluoride ().
That being said, even if you choose a lower quality brand, the benefits still far outweigh any risk.
Summary Green tea is loaded with polyphenol antioxidants, including a catechin called EGCG. These antioxidants can have various beneficial effects on health.
2. Compounds in Green Tea Can Improve Brain Function and Make You Smarter
Green tea does more than just keep you awake, it can also make you smarter.
The key active ingredient is caffeine, which is a known stimulant.
It doesn't contain as much as coffee, but enough to produce a response without causing the "jittery" effects associated with too much caffeine.
What caffeine does in the brain is to block an inhibitory neurotransmitter called Adenosine. This way, it actually increases the firing of neurons and the concentration of neurotransmitters like dopamine and norepinephrine (, 5).
Caffeine has been intensively studied before and consistently leads to improvements in various aspects of brain function, including improved mood, vigilance, reaction time and memory (6).
However, green tea contains more than just caffeine. It also has the amino acid L-theanine, which is able to cross the blood-brain barrier ().
L-theanine increases the activity of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA, which has anti-anxiety effects. It also increases dopamine and the production of alpha waves in the brain (, , ).
Studies show that caffeine and L-theanine can have synergistic effects. The combination of the two is particularly potent at improving brain function (, ).
Because of the L-theanine and the smaller dose of caffeine, green tea can give you a much milder and different kind of "buzz" than coffee.
Many people report having more stable energy and being much more productive when they drink green tea, compared to coffee.
Summary Green tea contains less caffeine than coffee, but enough to produce an effect. It also contains the amino acid L-theanine, which can work synergistically with caffeine to improve brain function.
3. Green Tea Increases Fat Burning and Improves Physical Performance
If you look at the ingredients list for any fat burning supplement, chances are that green tea will be on there.
This is because green tea has been shown to increase fat burning and boost the metabolic rate, in human controlled trials ().
In one study in 10 healthy men, green tea increased energy expenditure by 4% ().
Another study showed that fat oxidation was increased by 17%, indicating that green tea may selectively increase the burning of fat ().
However, some studies on green tea don't show any increase in metabolism, so the effects may depend on the individual ().
Caffeine itself has also been shown to improve physical performance by mobilizing fatty acids from the fat tissues and making them available for use as energy (, ).
In two separate review studies, caffeine has been shown to increase physical performance by 11-12%, on average (18, ).
Summary Green tea has been shown to boost the metabolic rate and increase fat burning in the short term, although not all studies agree.
4. Antioxidants in Green Tea May Lower Your Risk of Some Types of Cancer
Cancer is caused by uncontrolled growth of cells. It is one of the world's leading causes of death.
It is known that oxidative damage contributes to the development of cancer and that antioxidants may have a protective effect ().
Green tea is an excellent source of powerful antioxidants, so it makes sense that it could reduce your risk of cancer, which it appears to do:
Breast cancer: A meta-analysis of observational studies found that women who drank the most green tea had a 20-30% lower risk of developing breast cancer, the most common cancer in women ().
Prostate cancer: One study found that men drinking green tea had a 48% lower risk of developing prostate cancer, which is the most common cancer in men ().
Colorectal cancer: An analysis of 29 studies showed that those drinking green tea were up to 42% less likely to develop colorectal cancer ().
Many observational studies have shown that green tea drinkers are less likely to develop several types of cancer. However, more high-quality research is needed to confirm these effects (24, ).
It is important to keep in mind that it may be a bad idea to put milk in your tea, because some studies suggest it reduces the antioxidant value ().
Summary Green tea has powerful antioxidants that may protect against cancer. Multiple studies show that green tea drinkers have a lower risk of various types of cancer.
5. Green Tea May Protect Your Brain in Old Age, Lowering Your Risk of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's
Not only can green tea improve brain function in the short term, it may also protect your brain in old age.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common neurodegenerative disease in humans and a leading cause of dementia.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease and involves the death of dopamine producing neurons in the brain.
Multiple studies show that the catechin compounds in green tea can have various protective effects on neurons in test tubes and animal models, potentially lowering the risk of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's (, , ).
Summary The bioactive compounds in green tea can have various protective effects on the brain. They may reduce the risk of both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, the two most common neurodegenerative disorders.
6. Green Tea Can Kill Bacteria, Which Improves Dental Health and Lowers Your Risk of Infection
The catechins in green tea also have other biological effects.
Some studies show that they can kill bacteria and inhibit viruses like the influenza virus, potentially lowering your risk of infections (, 31, , ).
Streptococcus mutans is the primary harmful bacteria in the mouth. It causes plaque formation and is a leading contributor to cavities and tooth decay.
Studies show that the catechins in green tea can inhibit the growth of Streptococcus mutans. Green tea consumption is associated with improved dental health and a lower risk of caries (, , , ).
Multiple studies also show that green tea can reduce bad breath (, 39).
Summary The catechins in green tea may inhibit the growth of bacteria and some viruses. This can lower the risk of infections and lead to improvements in dental health, a lower risk of caries and reduced bad breath.
7. Green Tea May Lower Your Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is a disease that has reached epidemic proportions in the past few decades and now afflicts about 400 million people worldwide.
This disease involves having elevated blood sugar levels in the context of insulin resistance or an inability to produce insulin.
Studies show that green tea can improve insulin sensitivity and reduce blood sugar levels ().
One study in Japanese individuals found that those who drank the most green tea had a 42% lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes ().
According to a review of 7 studies with a total of 286,701 individuals, green tea drinkers had an 18% lower risk of becoming diabetic ().
Summary Some controlled trials show that green tea can cause mild reductions in blood sugar levels. It may also lower the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
8. Green Tea May Reduce Your Risk of Cardiovascular Disease
Cardiovascular diseases, including heart disease and stroke, are the biggest causes of death in the world (43).
Studies show that green tea can improve some of the main risk factors for these diseases.
This includes total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides ().
Green tea also dramatically increases the antioxidant capacity of the blood, which protects the LDL particles from oxidation, which is one part of the pathway towards heart disease (45, 46).
Given the beneficial effects on risk factors, it is not surprising to see that green tea drinkers have up to a 31% lower risk of cardiovascular disease (47, 48, ).
Summary Green tea has been shown to lower total and LDL cholesterol, as well as protect the LDL particles from oxidation. Observational studies show that green tea drinkers have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease.
9. Green Tea Can Help You Lose Weight and Lower Your Risk of Obesity
Given that green tea can boost the metabolic rate in the short term, it makes sense that it could help you lose weight.
Several studies show that green tea leads to decreases in body fat, especially in the abdominal area (50, ).
One of these studies was a 12-week randomized controlled trial in 240 men and women. In this study, the green tea group had significant decreases in body fat percentage, body weight, waist circumference and belly fat (52).
However, some studies don't show a statistically significant increases in weight loss with green tea, so this needs to be taken with a grain of salt ().
Summary Some studies show that green tea leads to increased weight loss. It may be particularly effective at reducing the dangerous abdominal fat.
10. Green Tea May Help You Live Longer
Of course, we all have to die eventually. That is inevitable.
However, given that green tea drinkers are at a lower risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer, it makes sense that it could help you live longer.
In a study of 40,530 Japanese adults, those who drank the most green tea (5 or more cups per day) were significantly less likely to die during an 11 year period ():
Death of all causes: 23% lower in women, 12% lower in men.
Death from heart disease: 31% lower in women, 22% lower in men.
Death from stroke: 42% lower in women, 35% lower in men.
Another study in 14,001 elderly Japanese individuals aged found that those who drank the most green tea were 76% less likely to die during the 6 year study period (55).
Summary Studies show that green tea drinkers are likely to live longer than non-tea drinkers.
11. Anything Else?
In order to feel better, lose weight and lower your risk of chronic diseases, you might want to consider making green tea a regular part of your life.
If you'd like to try it, there's a wide variety of products available on Amazon.
Read the article in Spanish
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc on January 17, 2018
related stories
How Green Tea Can Help You Lose Weight Naturally
Matcha - Even More Powerful Than Regular Green Tea?
What is Oolong Tea and What Benefits Does it Have?
10 Benefits of Green Tea Extract
7 Evidence-Based Benefits of Matcha Tea
READ THIS NEXT
How Green Tea Can Help You Lose Weight Naturally
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Many studies show that green tea can help you lose weight. It contains bioactive substances that can make you burn more calories, even at rest.
READ MORE
Matcha - Even More Powerful Than Regular Green Tea?
Written by Adda Bjarnadottir, MS
Matcha is a type of powdered green tea. It is very high in antioxidants, and has numerous health benefits for your body and brain.
READ MORE
What is Oolong Tea and What Benefits Does it Have?
Written by Alina Petre, MS, RD (CA)
Oolong tea is an incredibly healthy tea related to green and black tea. It has several impressive health benefits for your body and brain.
READ MORE
10 Benefits of Green Tea Extract
Written by Arlene Semeco, MS, RD
Green tea extract is a concentrated supplemental form of green tea. Here are 10 science-based benefits of green tea extract.
READ MORE
7 Evidence-Based Benefits of Matcha Tea
Written by Rachael Link, MS, RD
Matcha comes from the same plant as green tea, but it contains even more antioxidants and caffeine. Here are 7 health benefits of matcha tea, all…
READ MORE
4 Stimulants in Tea - More Than Just Caffeine
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Tea contains several stimulant substances, including caffeine, theobromine, theophylline and L-theanine.
READ MORE
How Chai Tea Can Improve Your Health
Written by Alina Petre, MS, RD (CA)
Chai tea, also known as masala chai, is made with spices and ingredients that may offer important health benefits. Here's how chai may benefit your…
READ MORE
Rooibos Tea - 5 Health Benefits, Side Effects and More
Written by Mary Jane Brown, PhD, RD (UK)
Rooibos tea is gaining popularity around the world. It is also called red tea. This article explains everything about rooibos tea and its health…
READ MORE
10 Healthy Herbal Teas You Should Try
Written by Taylor Jones, RD
Herbal teas have a wide variety of tastes, flavors and even health benefits. Here are 10 healthy herbal teas you'll want to try today.
READ MORE
13 Health Benefits of Coffee, Based on Science
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
Coffee is the biggest source of antioxidants in the diet. It has many health benefits, such as improved brain function and a lower risk of serious…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 128123 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560