Quickest Way to Get Rid of a Cold
Follow Us:
Give tips on holistic health.
Quickest Way to Get Rid of a Cold
Common cold is an upper respiratory infection that is caused by a virus. This write-up provides information on some of the quickest ways to get rid of a cold.
Yash Gode
There's no denying the fact that there is no cure for common cold. It is a self-limiting condition that resolves in a couple of weeks on its own. Over-the-counter drugs that are available at the pharmacies can only help alleviate the symptoms to some extent. Some specialists even say that the infection will run its course, and letting the body fight the infection alone would suffice. However, there are a few remedies and other ways that could help provide relief.
Consume Vitamin C
Though many people are of the opinion that foods rich in vitamin C should be avoided, as citric acids can cause irritation, if you're having a sore throat. However, it is a well-established fact that vitamin C is very effective against pathogens that cause cold and flu. Even though the citric acid causes irritation, it is fatal for the influenza virus. A regular intake of juices of either orange, lemon, gooseberry, guava, or sweet lime can be beneficial for those affected by cold or flu. Even commonly used cold medicines have a substantial amount of vitamin C. In case you do not wish to deal with any irritation, you should increase the intake of vitamin C in future, as it is known to provide excellent immunity against cold.
Steam Inhalation
This is another very common method to counter common cold. For this, first place a pot of water on the flame and bring it to a boil. Once that is done, position your head above the pot and use a towel to cover your head, so that you can breathe in the steam. Start inhaling the steam and continue for at least five to ten minutes. If that this sounds like something you would not be able to tolerate, try taking a steamy shower or spend some time in a sauna. The basic idea is for the patient to inhale the steam, which will give temporary relief by clearing up the nasal passages.
Stay Hydrated
Drink plenty of liquids (water, herbal tea, and fresh fruit or vegetable juice). It is essential for someone affected by cold to stay hydrated, as higher fluid levels in the body help the body to heal faster. While consuming fluids, make sure that they are not too cold.
Maintain a Healthy Diet
A healthy diet is probably the best way to defend the body from disease-causing organisms that cause cold. Eat lots of fruits and vegetables, as these are easy to digest. Processed food take longer to digest, and should be avoided, especially when the immune system is working overtime to fight an infection.
Take Ample Rest
Rest is best, when it comes to countering common cold. Take as much rest as possible. Just cancel or postpone all the appointments that are not urgent and restrain from all other activities. Suspend your exercise or workout programs till you feel better.
On a concluding note, common cold will run its course and resolve on its own within a couple of weeks. However, take ample rest and avoid any activity that might burden the immune system. You can take certain drugs and follow the aforementioned remedies for relief from the symptoms of common cold.
Disclaimer: The information provided in this article is solely for educating the reader. It is not intended to be a substitute for the advice of a medical expert.
Share This
Common Cold Contagious Period
Home Remedies for Head Cold
How to Relieve Head Pressure from a Cold
Chest Cold Remedies
Stuffy Nose Remedies
Chyawanprash as a Memory Booster
Health Benefits of Chyawanprash
Know How Chyawanprash is Your Immune System's Best Companion
Chyawanprash: The Secret to Healthy Weight Loss
Chyawanprash- The Best Remedy for Cough and Cold
Chyawanprash FAQs Answered
Chyawanprash: An Essential "Supplement" for Yogis
Rose Water Benefits
Neem Oil Benefits
Health Benefits of Turmeric
Himalayan Salt Benefits
Home Remedies for Removing Skin Moles
Chinese Massage Therapy
Red Tea Benefits
Clove Oil Uses
Camphor Uses
Peppermint Tea Benefits
Energy Bracelets - Do They Work?
Itchy Throat Remedy
Epsom Salt Substitutes
Natural Colon Cleansing Recipes
Back Massage Pressure Points
Headache Relief Pressure Points
Upset Stomach Remedies
Natural Cough Suppressant
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service