Benefits of Zinc & Selenium | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Minerals in Food
Benefits of Zinc & Selenium
Clay McNight
About the Author:
Clay McNight
Clay McNight is currently a nutrition writer with Demand Media Studios.
Zinc and selenium are two trace elements that are required for human health. Each of these minerals plays an important role in the body, and insufficient levels can lead to a variety of health problems. Both zinc and selenium are required for healthy immune function, which makes these nutrients vital for keeping the body free of disease and common illnesses.
Selenium is an important mineral found in high concentrations in the thyroid gland. (Image: michaklootwijk/iStock/Getty Images)
Roles of Zinc and Selenium
Zinc plays roles in immune function, protein synthesis, cell division and wound healing. In addition, zinc is important for normal growth and development during childhood and pregnancy. Selenium is important for reproduction, thyroid function, DNA synthesis, and protecting the body from oxidative damage and infection.
Maintain Healthy Immune Function
Zinc helps keep white blood cells healthy so they can fight off infections and disease. In addition, zinc has shown some efficacy in reducing symptoms of the common cold. A 2003 paper published in "Folia Microbiologica" noted that zinc and selenium are both important in modulating immune function. Selenium is necessary for the proper function of three different types of immune system cells known as neutrophils, macrophages and so-called natural killer cells.
Selenium for Thyroid Health
The thyroid has higher concentrations of selenium than any other organ in the body. Therefore, selenium status may be an important indicator of thyroid disease. The thyroid is a small gland located at the base of the neck that controls the release of hormones that regulate the metabolism. Thyroid conditions can negatively affect energy levels and body weight, as well as other factors related to metabolic function. A 2013 paper published in "Clinical Endocrinology" noted that selenium supplementation may decrease anti-thyroid antibodies, which can help keep the thyroid healthy.
Prevent Chronic Age-Related Diseases With Zinc
Zinc may play important roles in the prevention of chronic inflammation, according to a 2007 paper published in the "Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences." The researchers noted that zinc deficiency is consistently observed in older individuals with chronic inflammation. Adequate zinc consumption may help protect against a variety of age-related inflammatory diseases.
Mineral Deficiencies
Deficiencies in either zinc or selenium can cause a number of health conditions. Low selenium levels have been linked to negative changes in mood, and deficiencies may be a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The Office of Dietary Supplements also notes that selenium deficiencies may be linked to male infertility and one type of osteoarthritis. Deficiencies in zinc can cause a loss of appetite, impaired immune function, growth retardation and accelerated aging, among other health consequences.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Office of Dietary Supplements: Zinc
Office of Dietary Supplements: Selenium
International Zinc Association: Zinc: Essential for Human Health
Folia Microbiologica: Modulatory Effects of Selenium and Zinc on the Immune System
Clinical Endocrinology: Selenium and the Thyroid Gland: More Good News for Clinicians
WomensHealth.gov: Thyroid Disease Fact Sheet
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences: Zinc and Inflammatory/immune Response in Aging
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
What Is Sodium Selenite Used For?
2
Weight Loss & Zinc
3
Zinc & Liver Function
4
How Much Vitamin C & Zinc Can I Take While Pregnant?
5
What Are the Benefits of Vitamin Surbex Z?
6
Foods Rich in Zinc and Selenium
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.