Osteoarthritis Flare-Up: Causes, Treatment, and More
Newsletter
Understanding Osteoarthritis Flare-ups: Symptoms, Management, and More
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD on March 8, 2017 — Written by Kristeen Cherney
Symptoms
Causes
See your doctor
Treatment
Outlook
Prevention
Overview
Osteoarthritis (OA) primarily affects cartilage, the tissues that protect bones and form joints. OA is a degenerative disease. This means that damage done to the joints can’t be reversed. An OA flare-up, or “flare,” refers to a sudden influx of symptoms. Flares can be brought on by many factors.
When an OA flare-up is manageable with medications and lifestyle changes, it’s considered an acute, or temporary, condition. If your symptoms continue to worsen, you might be experiencing worsening joint damage and not a flare-up.
Symptoms of an OA flare-up
An injury to the affected joint or joints may cause an OA flare-up. A flare-up can also occur when the joint breaks down further over time.
Symptoms of an OA flare-up may include:
increased joint pain
swelling of the affected area
reduced range of motion at the location of the joint
fatigue from increased pain
Causes of OA flare-ups
The precise cause of a flare-up is not known. An Injury or trauma to the affected joint may cause an OA flare-up. This is different from rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In RA, changes in the immune system cause flare-ups that produce inflammation or swelling. OA causes inflammation of the affected joints, but a flare-up isn’t caused by inflammation like in RA.
Learn more: Rheumatoid arthritis vs. osteoarthritis »
Cartilage provides shock absorption during movements. A breakdown of cartilage leaves your joints more vulnerable to flare-ups because the bones rub together.
Osteophytes, also known as bone spurs, may cause OA flare-ups. Bone spurs are small pieces of bones that grow on broken-down joints. Sometimes bone pieces, as well as cartilage, can come loose and cause more pain.
Flare-ups may also be brought on by:
stress
exercise-related injuries
repetitive movements
cold weather
a drop in barometric pressure
infections
weight gain
Working with your doctor
You don’t necessarily need to see your doctor every time you have a flare-up. If pain and other symptoms last longer than a few days, you may want to make an appointment. Your doctor should address symptoms that seem to progress, like worsening flexibility.
It may also be helpful to track your OA flares for future reference. A journal or an app can help you and your doctor track the progression of your OA.
Your doctor may recommend an X-ray or MRI to look for changes in your joints. This can also help them identify bone spurs or other potential causes of your OA flare-ups.
Joint replacement surgery may resolve recurring flare-ups and significant pain.
Treating an OA flare-up
Treating an OA flare-up may require a combination of over-the-counter (OTC) or prescription medications and home remedies. Talk to your doctor about the options below.
OTC solutions
OTC pain medications are often the first course of action for OA flare-ups. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the most common OTC drugs used for arthritis-related pain. These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), aspirin, and naproxen (Aleve). While NSAIDs are effective against joint pain and inflammation during a flare-up, they carry the risk of stomach bleeding if you take them too long. NSAIDs also may interact with prescription medications, and they can increase blood pressure.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is another OTC pain relief option. However, acetaminophen products don’t treat inflammation. This medication can affect the liver if you take it too long or in large doses.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is another OTC option. A TENS device runs on batteries and it comes with adhesive pads that you place on the site of pain. The device then delivers electric pulses to alter certain nerves that signal pain. TENS isn’t a medication, but some devices are available over the counter. More complex devices are also sold through physical therapists and medical supply stores at a higher cost. While TENS can offer pain relief during a flare-up, it can’t minimize OA damage.
Prescription medications
Sometimes OTC medications may not offer enough relief in the case of a severe OA flare-up. Prescription options may include:
narcotics
prescription-strength NSAIDs
tramadol (Ultram)
corticosteroids
Prescription pain pills can carry similar risks as their OTC counterparts. Also, the downside to narcotics for pain relief is that they can cause dizziness, which may increase your risk for falls. Prescription pain relievers can also become addictive. You shouldn’t use them long-term. Corticosteroids reduce inflammation, but they can cause irritability and weight gain in some people.
Home remedies
Some possible home remedies for OA flare-ups include:
acupuncture
heat therapy to ease stiffness
cold compresses and ice for pain relief
massage therapy, though be sure your therapist is familiar with OA
breathing exercises to reduce stress
lots of rest between activities
It’s important to note that home remedies for OA flare-ups can help reduce pain, inflammation, and swelling, but they may not be as effective for severe symptoms as medications.
Learn more: 4 osteoarthritis exercises »
Outlook
The damage of OA can worsen during flare-ups. OA flares themselves are temporary and don’t signal a worsening of your condition.
Long-term management of OA is still key to preventing future flare-ups and joint damage. OA can lead to disability without proper care and lifestyle changes.
Though it’s difficult to predict the onset of a flare-up, managing your OA can decrease the risk of occurrence. Joint replacement surgery may be necessary in severe cases to prevent disability and improve quality of life.
Preventing OA flare-ups
While joint damage is irreversible, there are preventive measures you can take to minimize your risk of flare-ups. Pain medications can make daily movements more comfortable, but they don’t prevent future symptoms. This is where lifestyle measures can prove helpful. Talk to your doctor about:
losing weight: Losing weight can reduce OA flare-ups because extra weight places more pressure on the joints. That extra pressure can wear joints down even further and cause discomfort. Weight loss may be especially helpful if you have OA in the spine, knees, and hips.
wearing braces: Knee braces, for example, can help protect the joints while also letting you perform daily activities with more ease.
staying active: Regular exercise can help lubricate joints and strengthen bones, all while increasing muscle mass around joints to help protect from injuries.
using assistive devices: Devices, such as grabbers, can help make movements easier while also avoiding unnecessary stress on your joints.
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD on March 8, 2017 — Written by Kristeen Cherney
related stories
Treatment Options for Delaying Knee Surgery
Easy Exercises for Knee Arthritis
Why Do My Shoulders Click, Pop, Grind, and Crack?
Stages of Osteoarthritis of the Knee
6 Foods to Avoid If You Have Osteoarthritis
READ THIS NEXT
Treatment Options for Delaying Knee Surgery
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
There's no cure for osteoarthritis (OA) yet, but there are several options that can relieve your symptoms. If you have OA of the knee, we'll explain…
READ MORE
Easy Exercises for Knee Arthritis
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Exercising an arthritic knee can be a great way to relieve your pain and discomfort. Learn about easy exercises you can do at home. We'll show you…
READ MORE
Why Do My Shoulders Click, Pop, Grind, and Crack?
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
Shoulder popping, also known as crepitus, has several possible causes. Find out why it is sometimes accompanied by pain while other times it's not, as…
READ MORE
Stages of Osteoarthritis of the Knee
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Osteoarthritis (OA) is divided into five stages, spanning a normal and healthy knee to one that's severely damaged. Symptoms become worse at later…
READ MORE
6 Foods to Avoid If You Have Osteoarthritis
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo, LDN, RD
Osteoarthritis is a condition in which the cushion of cartilage between your joints breaks down and wears away. You can avoid flareups of…
READ MORE
Is Your Osteoarthritis Treatment Working?
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Osteoarthritis pain without appropriate treatment can cause decreased mobility. It's important to find the correct treatment plan to manage this…
READ MORE
Understanding Cartilage, Joints, and the Aging Process
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Cartilage cushions joints and helps them work smoothly. But degeneration of cartilage from a lifetime of moving can lead to osteoarthritis (OA). Learn…
READ MORE
Everything You Need to Know About Osteoarthritis
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
If you live with osteoarthritis, you know it's a complex condition with a broad range of treatments and risk factors. Here's a detailed, top-to-bottom…
READ MORE
Eating Right for Osteoarthritis (OA) of the Knee
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo, LDN, RD
Can what you eat affect the severity of your osteoarthritis symptoms? We'll offer some delicious recipes and show you how your diet could play a role…
READ MORE
The Best Osteoarthritis (OA) Apps of the Year
Do you want to thrive with your osteoarthritis? These are the best apps - whether you need help with symptoms, or with your daily exercise routine.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 117026 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877