Anyone have problems with ovarian cysts? [Archive] - Women's Cycling Discussion Forums
Women's Cycling Discussion Forums > General Discussion > Health Issues > Anyone have problems with ovarian cysts?
PDA
View Full Version : Anyone have problems with ovarian cysts?
limewave
08-28-2006, 04:45 AM
I've had several ruptured ovarian cysts. They don't seem to bother me so much when I'm cycling, but running--ouch! And then, once they rupture I'm sick for several days. I don't want to keep going to the doctor because she doesn't really do anything for them, I just have to pay for ultrasounds where they confirm that I do have a ruptured cyst. They haven't given me anything for the pain or to help with the nausea. But it's so bad sometimes, I was just wondering if anyone else had this problem and if they found anything to help with it. Thanks!
Grog
08-28-2006, 08:08 AM
I feel your pain.
I had ovarian cysts a few years ago. I didn't know it was that until I ended up with unstoppable pain in the hospital.
They were follicular (liquid) cysts and a dermoid (solid) cysts. About a month later I had the dermoid and the biggest follicular taken away by laparoscopy. A smaller follicular stayed there. They don't usually take cysts away unless they're bigger than 5 cm, because the surgery causes more risks than the cysts themselves.
If I had follicular cysts, that meant that I still ovulated although I was already on the birth control pill. So I got prescribed a stronger pill (from Alesse 20 u to Minestrin which is 25 u I think) but that didn't do it: about a year later I still had cysts. Like you, I could feel them when doing impact sports (running and high-impact aerobics), just like the first time. Another trigger for pain was wearing heeled boots to walk to school (about 2 km at a fast pace), which twice hurt me enough to make me stop on a park bench to cry along my commute to the university.
So I had another ultrasound to confirm that the cysts were still there and growing (follicular, not dermoid) and my gynecological surgeon - a wonderful woman - told me she didn't want to see me in the OR again so she increased the strength of my pill again from Minestrin to Marvelon (35 units). Not one problem ever since.
There were hesitations before we changed my pill the last time because there is a history of migraines in my family and I had some neurological issues (very light seizures) as a kid. However it was considered that the risk of having to undergo surgery again was much higher than that of increasing the pill.
Maybe you should seek a second opinion. There is definitely something that can be done about your condition and it's not necessarily about pain killers.
deena
08-28-2006, 11:44 AM
I developed some cysts as well, and because of my medical history the doc didn't want that to continue. Like Grog, BC pills were the solution. But instead of a stronger dose, I am on a continuous dose. Most people take an active pill for 21 days, then are off for 7. I don't take a break, just start a new pack right away on day 22. It was a little bit of a hassle to make the insurance company get it. On the upside, no more periods and no more cysts!
Powered by vBulletin® Version 4.2.2 Copyright © 2019 vBulletin Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.