Evening Primrose Oil Treatment for Menopause
Newsletter
Evening Primrose Oil to Treat Menopausal Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT on December 13, 2017 — Written by Kiara Anthony
Oil
How it works
Side effects
Research
Outlook
Evening primrose oil for menopause
Perimenopause and menopause can cause a number of uncomfortable symptoms like hot flashes. While there are a number of best practices and lifestyle changes that can help reduce these symptoms, they may not work for everyone.
Perimenopause symptoms can occur for years before periods end. Once a woman hasn’t had a period for 12 months, she is in menopause. Symptoms continue, but most women report they lessen over time.
Evening primrose oil is an alternative treatment to alleviate pain and discomfort during menopause.
What is evening primrose?
Evening primrose is a flower native to North America but also found in Europe and parts of the Southern hemisphere. The evening primrose has yellow flower petals that bloom in the evening.
In the past, Native Americans used evening primrose for healing purposes. The leaves were used for minor wounds and sore throats, while the entire plant was used for bruises.
Modern medicine uses the oil extract from evening primrose seeds in supplements to treat eczema, breast pain, and menopausal symptoms. Evening primrose oil (EPO) is high in specific fatty acids.
How does it work?
Your body needs a balance of nutrients and fatty acids to function properly. Omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids are essential for brain function and bone health. You can only get these healthy acids through foods and products like EPO.
EPO contains high levels of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) and linolenic acid, which are both omega-6 fatty acids. These acids reduce inflammation.
EPO can be taken orally or applied topically. It’s important to discuss your dosage with your health care provider. If the dosage is too high, you could experience painful side effects.
Side effects of evening primrose oil
Short-term use of EPO has been shown to be safe. However, it is not recommended that you take this oil supplement for long periods of time.
EPO can cause some adverse side effects, including:
upset stomach
abdominal pain
headaches
nausea
diarrhea
allergic reaction
bleeding
seizures
Doctors also recommend taking this supplement alone rather than in combination with other medication. Interactions with other drugs can cause bleeding, increase the risk of seizures, and reduce the effectiveness of prescribed drugs.
There are far fewer side effects from using this oil topically. However, an allergic reaction is still possible.
Evening primrose oil research
In addition to maintaining proper health, GLA found in EPO produces prostaglandins, a hormone that generates an inflammatory response and also regulates blood flow.
Some women have had some success using EPO to treat menopause symptoms.
In , EPO was taken orally for six weeks against a placebo to test the effectiveness of the supplement in improving hot flashes. Results showed that there was a reduction in the severity of the hot flashes, and, to a lesser extent, in the frequency or duration.
Other studies find EPO a noneffective treatment for menopause. lists EPO as a nonhormonal treatment for menopausal hot flashes but also confirmed there was little data to show its effectiveness on this condition.
Similarly, on relieving menopause symptoms explained that herbal products, including EPO, aren’t reliable solutions. It also explained that using this product in conjunction with other medical treatment can cause adverse effects such as bleeding.
Supplements aren’t monitored by a governing body so are more susceptible to being of poor quality or contaminated. Research your brand choices.
Outlook
While there have been some success stories using EPO as an effective menopause treatment, traditional treatment options and lifestyle changes shouldn’t be ignored.
Eat whole foods, sleep in a cool room with a fan, and keep cooling gels and cold rice packs handy for the back of your neck.
Maintain a diet rich in calcium and exercise regularly.
Talk to your health care provider for additional natural options for managing the symptoms of menopause.
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT on December 13, 2017 — Written by Kiara Anthony
related stories
10 Reasons to Use Evening Primrose Oil
Menopause: 11 Things Every Woman Should Know
Treatment Options for Heat Flashes
Can Essential Oils Provide Menopause Relief?
Can Borage Seed Oil Help with Menopause?
READ THIS NEXT
10 Reasons to Use Evening Primrose Oil
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Evening primrose oil has been touted as a remedy for everything from acne and PMS to high blood pressure. But does it work? Let's find out.
READ MORE
Menopause: 11 Things Every Woman Should Know
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
To help you get a handle on menopause, here are 11 things you should know about this transitional stage of life.
READ MORE
Treatment Options for Heat Flashes
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Hot flashes are one of the most common symptoms of menopause. What are the most effective remedies?
READ MORE
Can Essential Oils Provide Menopause Relief?
For many women, the symptoms of menopause can disrupt daily life. Learn how essential oils can provide relief from hot flashes and other symptoms.
READ MORE
Can Borage Seed Oil Help with Menopause?
Borage seed oil has been shown to reduce inflammation and some symptoms of PMS and menopause. Find out how to use it, and if it's right for you.
READ MORE
6 of the Best Multivitamins for Menopause
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
If you're in the market for a multivitamin to help with menopause symptoms, consider giving one of these six a try.
READ MORE
The Best Menopause Blogs of 2019
Between the hot flashes, weight gain, and night sweats, menopause can be a challenging time. (Not to mention the wild hormonal swings!) Want to turn…
READ MORE
Effects of Menopause on the Body
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Menopause means that your periods have completely stopped for at least 12 months. It often occurs around age 51. In total, menopause can last an…
READ MORE
Menopause Diet: How What You Eat Affects Your Symptoms
Written by Melissa Groves
Menopause is a natural transition in a woman's life often associated with unpleasant symptoms like hot flashes and disrupted sleep. This article…
READ MORE
Self-Care for Menopause: 5 Women Share Their Experiences
Knowing how to manage the bodily changes that accompany menopause can be both frustrating and isolating. And it's for this reason self-care is so…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 139500 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560