Burn Treatment & Prevention Tips for Families - HealthyChildren.org
You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.
Turn on more accessible mode
Turn off more accessible mode
Skip Ribbon Commands
Skip to main content
Turn off Animations
Turn on Animations
Our Sponsors
Log in | Register
Menu
Log in | Register
Home
Our Sponsors
Ages & StagesAges & Stages
Ages and Stages
Prenatal
Baby (0-12 mos.)
Toddler 1-3yrs.
Preschool 3-5yrs
Grade School 5-12yrs.
Teen 12-18yrs.
Young Adult 18-21yrs.
Healthy LivingHealthy Living
Healthy Living
Nutrition
Fitness
Sports
Oral Health
Emotional Wellness
Growing Healthy
Sleep
Safety & PreventionSafety & Prevention
Safety and Prevention
Immunizations
At Home
At Play
On The Go
All Around
Family LifeFamily Life
Family Life
Medical Home
Family Dynamics
Media
Work & Play
Getting Involved in Your Community
Health IssuesHealth Issues
Health Issues
Conditions
Injuries & Emergencies
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
NewsNews
Tips & ToolsTips & Tools
Tips and Tools
Ask The Pediatrician
Find a Pediatrician
Newsletters
Symptom Checker
Apps
E-Magazine
Webinars
Our MissionOur Mission
Our Mission
AAP in Action
Medical Editor & Contributors
Sponsors
Sponsorship Opportunities
Spread the Word
Shop AAP
Find a Pediatrician
Health Issues
Conditions
Injuries & Emergencies
Sports Injuries
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
Healthy Children > Health Issues > Injuries & Emergencies > Burn Treatment & Prevention Tips for Families
Health Issues
Listen
Español
Text Size
Email
Print
Share
Burn Treatment & Prevention Tips for Families
Page Content
​There are many different causes of serious burns in children, including sunburn, hot water or other hot liquids, and those due to fire, electrical contact, or chemicals. All of these can cause permanent injury and scarring to the skin.
Immediate Treatment Steps for Burns
As quickly as possible, soak the burn in cool water. Don't hesitate to run cool water over the burn long enough to cool the area and relieve the pain immediately after the injury. Do not use ice on a burn. It may delay healing. Also, do not rub a burn; it can increase blistering.
Cool any smoldering clothing immediately by soaking with water, then remove any clothing from the burned area unless it is stuck firmly to the skin. In that case, cut away as much clothing as possible.
If the injured area is not oozing, cover the burn with a sterile gauze pad or a clean, dry cloth.
If the burn is oozing, cover it lightly with sterile gauze if available and immediately seek medical attention. If sterile gauze is not available, cover burns with a clean sheet or towel.
Do not put butter, grease, or powder on a burn. All of these so-called home remedies actually can make the injury worse. For anything more serious than a superficial burn, or if redness and pain continue for more than a few hours, consult a physician. All electrical burns and burns of the hands, mouth, or genitals should receive immediate medical attention. Chemicals that cause burns also may be absorbed through the skin and cause other symptoms. Call the Poison Help Line (1-800-222-1222) or your pediatrician after washing off all the chemicals.
If your pediatrician thinks the burn is not too serious, he or she may show you how to clean and care for it at home using medicated ointments and dressings. When treating a burn at home, watch for any increase in redness or swelling or the development of a bad odor or discharge. These can be signs of infection, which will require medical attention. See First Aid for Burns: Parent FAQs for more information
Under the following circumstances, hospitalization may be necessary:
If the burns are third degree.
If 10% or more of the body is burned.
If the burn involves the face, hands, feet, or genitals, or involves a moving joint.
If the child is very young or fussy, and therefore too difficult to treat at home.
Safeguard Your Family from Fires, Scalding & Burns
Install smoke detectors in hallways outside bedrooms, the kitchen, living room, and near the furnace, with at least one on every floor of the house. Test them every month to be sure they work. It is best to use alarms that have long-life batteries, but if these are not available, change batteries at least annually on a specific date that you'll remember (such as January 1 of each year). Consider investing in an alarm that allows you to record your own voice calling to your children by name; these new alarms may be more effective in rousing sleeping children than alarms with loud beeping tones.
Practice home fire drills. Make sure every family member and others who care for your children in your home know how to leave any area of the home safely in case of a fire.
Have several working fire extinguishers readily available and familiarize yourself with how to use them. Place fire extinguishers around the home where the risk of fire is greatest, such as in the kitchen, furnace room, and near the fireplace.
Teach your children to crawl to the exits if there's smoke in the room. They will avoid inhaling the smoke by staying below it.
Purchase a safety ladder if your home has a second story, and teach your children how to use it. If you live in a high-rise building, teach your children the locations of all exits and make sure they understand never to use the elevator in a fire. It can become trapped between floors or open on a floor where the fire is burning.
Agree on a family meeting point outside the house or apartment so you can make certain everyone has gotten out of the burning area.
Teach your children to stop, drop, and roll on the ground if their clothing catches fire.
Avoid smoking​ indoors.
Do not leave food cooking on the stove unattended.
Lock up flammable liquids in the home. It is best to store them outside the home, out of children's reach, and away from heat or ignition sources.
Protect your child from tap water scalds. Adjust your water heater so the hottest temperature at the faucet is no more than 120 degrees Fahrenheit (48.9 degrees Celsius) to prevent scald burns. See 5 Bathroom Safety Tips for Infants & Young Children.
Don't plug appliances or other electrical equipment into extension cords if they place too much "amperage" or load on the cord, thus creating a potentially unsafe situation. See Electric Shock Injuries in Children for more information.
Keep matches and lighters away from children, locked and out of reach.
Avoid all fireworks, even those meant for consumer use.
Additional Information from HealthyChildren.org:
Microwave Safety Tips to Prevent Burns
First Aid Guide for Parents & Caregivers
Holiday Fire Safety
Cuts, Scrapes & Scar Management: Parent FAQs
​
Article Body
Last Updated
1/24/2017
Source
Adapted from Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to Age 5, 6th Edition (Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Pediatrics)
The information contained on this Web site should not be used as a substitute for the medical care and advice of your pediatrician. There may be variations in treatment that your pediatrician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
Email
Print
Share
Donate
Contact Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
© Copyright 2019 American Academy of Pediatrics. All rights reserved.