Nature’s Xanax: the one nutrient that can treat anxiety naturally without side effects | The Hearty Soul
Advertisement
Posted on: November 14, 2016 at 1:46 pm
Last updated: October 5, 2018 at 9:42 am
According to National Institute of Mental Health anxiety disorders are currently the most common mental illness in the U.S., affecting 40 million adults in the United States age 18 and older, or 18% of the population. [1] Furthermore, anxiety disorders cost the U.S. more than $42 billion a year, almost one-third of the country’s $148 billion total mental health bill, according to “The Economic Burden of Anxiety Disorders,” a study commissioned by the Anxiety and Depression Association of America. [2]
How many times have you turned to Xanax in times when you felt anxious? For many people, this has become an everyday option, but many are unaware of the serious short term and long term side effects of Xanax. Benzodiazepines are a common prescription drug used to treat anxiety and depression. Alprazolam (aka Xanax) was number 8 on the list of the most prescribed medications in 2010 according to Data from SDI Health.
What Is Alprazolam (Xanax): The Cost of Calm
In 2011, alprazolam was the most frequently prescribed benzodiazepine—with about 49 million prescriptions written. Alprazolam, like other benzodiazepines, works as an anxiolytic agent (anti-anxiety) by binding to specific sites on GABA receptors in the brain to slow down heart rate and breathing, leading to a greater sense of relaxation.
As with most pharmaceuticals, alprazolam’s glorified benefits come with a price.
Advertisement
Typical Side Effects of Xanax
Dyspnea or shortness of breath
Nausea
Dry mouth
Hypersalivation
Excessive talking
Decreased motivation
Anterograde amnesia and concentration problems
Irritability
Decreased libido (help boost your libido with a high quality, natural supplement, like this Catuaba Extract Powder)
Skin rash, respiratory depression, constipation
Drowsiness, dizziness, lightheadedness, fatigue, unsteadiness and impaired coordination, vertigo
More Serious Side Effects of Xanax
Difficulty concentrating
Memory problems
Confusion
Slurred speech
Paranoia
Depression
Strange dreams
Hallucinations
Seizures
Suicidal ideation
Long Term Side Effects Of Xanax
One of the most troubling long-term side effects of Xanax use is the high possibility of physical dependence and addiction in a short time of use. It’s sedative effects and feeling of a calm “high” can lead to tolerance developing quickly, especially with persistent use.
Once tolerance begins, this leads the patient to start taking higher and higher doses to get that same calm feeling. This can start a dangerous cycle of compulsive use, and can ultimately result in sedative addiction. Consequently, continually upping the daily dose of alprazolam also increases the risk of overdose.
According to the Drug Enforcement Administration [3]:
More than 20 million people over the age of 12 have reported misuse of benzodiazepines at some point in their lives.
There were almost 350,000 emergency room visits related to benzodiazepines in 2010; alprazolam accounted for more than a third of these.
A Natural Alternative To Xanax: L-theanine
L-theanine is a potent amino acid that’s primarily found in teas made from the Camellia sinensis plant. L-theanine acts as a relaxing agent or anxiolytic without sedative effects or any of the negative side effects of Xanax. L-theanine works somewhat similarly to Xanax by interacting with brain receptors and increasing dopamine, GABA, and glycine levels in various areas of the brain. [4, 5]
This, in turn, calms the central nervous system, produces a sense of calm and also reduces the perception of stress. L-theanine has also shown to promote increased alpha-waves in the brain which signify an alert but relaxed brain. [6, 7]
Advertisement
An Australian study in 2004 used 16 volunteers and compared 200mg of theanine to 1mg of Xanax. Subjects were given either theanine, Xanax or a placebo during either a resting task (baseline) or a task that provoked anxiety. Theanine worked better than Xanax to induce relaxation during the resting task, however, neither L-theanine or alprazolam demonstrated any acute anxiolytic effects during the anxiety task. [8]
Addressing Adrenal Fatigue and Balancing Hormones
High levels of anxiety can cause our adrenal glands and hormones to spin out of control. When this happens it puts our bodies in a vulnerable state that needs addressing. In addition to L-Theanine, helpful tips for balancing our adrenal glands and hormones are a healthy diet, exercise and having a hobby.
Taking L-theanine: Tea vs. Supplements
You have two top options to start increasing your intake of L-theanine; concentrated doses through supplementation and/or lower concentrations in brewed tea.
Advertisement
Supplements/Capsules:
L-theanine supplements are typically sold as 200mg doses which are the equivalent to 8-10 cups of brewed black tea.
The recommended dose is of 100–200mg 1-3 times per day for therapeutic benefits
Supplements I recommend include AOR’s Zen Theanine and Thorne’s Theanine
Tea:
Black tea: A typical 200ml cup of brewed black tea contained approximately 25mg of L-theanine
Green tea: An average cup of brewed green tea contained approximately 8mg of L-theanine
Matcha green tea powder: For the most bang for your buck I personally love a decent sized serving of organic stone-ground matcha every morning which offers around 29mg of L-theanine per 2g of matcha with the added punch of antioxidant goodness.
Brewing Tips:
According to researchers from The University of Newcastle in Australia, to get the highest possible amount of L-theanine out of each cup follow these instructions: [9]
Steep tea at 80 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes
Use water to tea ratio of 20 ml per 1 gram
Steep tea that is between 0.5 and 1 mm in particle size!
This amazing post was written by Dr. Nadia Kumentas, Toronto-based Naturopathic Doctor and co-founder of Affect Health a loose leaf medicinal tea company. You can get in touch with her and follow her on Facebook and Twitter!
[1] National Institute of Mental Health. (n.d.). Any Anxiety Disorder Among Adults. Retrieved from http://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/statistics/prevalence/any-anxiety-disorder-among-adults.shtml
[2,3] Drug Enforcement Administration: Office of Diversion Control. (2013, January). BENZODIAZEPINES. Retrieved from https://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_chem_info/benzo.pdf#search=benzoNathan
[4] Nathan, P. J., Lu, K., Gray, M., & Oliver, C. (2006). The neuropharmacology of L-theanine(N-ethyl-L-glutamine): A possible neuroprotective and cognitive enhancing agent. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17182482
[5] Wakabayashi, C., Numakawa, T., Ninomiya, M., Chiba, S., & Kunugi, H. (2012, February). Behavioral and molecular evidence for psychotropic effects in L-theanine. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21861094
[6] Song, C. H., Jung, J. H., Oh, J. S., & Kim, K. S. (2003, November). Effects of Theanine on the Release of Brain Alpha Wave in Adult Males. Retrieved from http://www.koreamed.org/SearchBasic.php?RID=0124KJN%2F2003.36.9.918&DT=1
[7] Nobre, A. C., Rao, A., & Owen, G. N. (2008). L-theanine, a natural constituent in tea, and its effect on mental state. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18296328
[8] Lu, K., Gray, M. A., Oliver, C., Liley, D. T., Harrison, B. J., Bartholomeusz, C. F., . . . Nathan, P. J. (2004, October). The acute effects of L-theanine in comparison with alprazolam on anticipatory anxiety in humans. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15378679
[9] Vuong, Q. V., Stathopoulos, C. E., Golding, J. B., Nguyen, M. H., & Roach, P. D. (2011, September). Optimum conditions for the water extraction of L-theanine from green tea. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21735551
Image source:
https://chocolateandginger.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/p1040061.jpg
Advertisement
Dr. Nadia Kumentas ND
Co-founder at Affect Health
Nadia Kumentas is a Toronto-based naturopathic doctor, tea drinker, yoga doer, animal lover, and plant enthusiast. She is also the co-founder of Affect Health, a professionally formulated medicinal tea company. "
Products We Love
Super Potent Black Cumin Oil
$49.00
Buy Now
X-tra Strength Apple Cider Vinegar Detox
$18.95
Buy Now
RARE Grey Himalayan Salt Lamp Light
$43.90
Buy Now
A Special Message From Our Founders
Over the past few years of working with health experts all over the world, there’s one major insight we’ve learned.
You don’t have to rely on expensive medications for the rest of your lives.
Most health problems can often be resolved with a good diet, exercise and a few powerful superfoods. In fact, we’ve gone through hundreds of scientific papers and ‘superfood’ claims and only selected the top 5% that are:
Backed by scientific research
Affordable
Simple to use
We then put this valuable information into the Superfood as Medicine Guide: a 100+ page guide on the 7 most powerful superfoods available, including:
Exact dosages for every health ailment
DIY recipes to create your own products
Simple recipes
Grab your copy before the offer runs out!
I WANT ACCESS NOW
Related Articles
Kyrstyn Johnson: An Open Letter to Parents About Infant and Pregnancy Loss
13-Year-Old Boy with Autism Dies from Being Restrained at School for “Predictable” Behavior
Brain Inflammation May Hold Key for Fibromyalgia Sufferers, Study Says
Study: Eating Chocolate and Drinking Red Wine Could Help Prevent Aging
Female Empaths: 11 Reasons Why Men Cannot Handle Them
How the Bacteria in Our Gut Influences Our Minds
Read more about:
Mental Health
Advertisement
Dr. Nadia Kumentas ND
Co-founder at Affect Health
Advertisement
Dashboard
Read Next: Mix This With Fresh Orange Juice Every Morning to Help Flush Nicotine Out of Your Body
JOIN OUR WEEKLY NEWSLETTER
About
Contact
Contribute
DISCLAIMER
This site is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice, legal advice, or professional services. If you feel that you have a medical problem, you should seek the advice of your physician or health care practitioner. For additional information please see our full disclaimer and privacy information and terms of service.
Affiliate disclosure | © 2017 Copyright The Hearty Soul. Created by Outmatch
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you would like to avoid this, please disable cookies in your browser settings.Thanks for letting me know!