7 Non-Medication Ways to Improve Depression and Anxiety (by Marcus Clarke) -
Where the Science of Psychology Meets the Art of Being Human
Menu
Home
About
Being Human
A Beautiful Mind
Happiness
Stress
Confidence and Self-Esteem
Anxiety
Emotional Intelligence
Depression
Habits, Addictions and Other Things We Do That We Wish We Didn’t
Mindfulness
Sleep, Dreams & Nightmares
Brain Matters
Extra Support – When Being Human Gets Tough
With Others
Intimate Relationships & Marriage
When A Relationship Breaks
Social Relationships
Dealing With Difficult People
With Kids & Teens
Children
Adolescents
Anxiety in Kids and Teens
Anxiety in Children – Videos for Kids
Mindfulness – Videos for Kids
Anxiety in Teens – Videos for Teens
Stepfamilies
VideoLibrary
The Sunroom
The Treehouse
The Rooftop
Speaking
PublicEvents
Shop
Products
Postage and Handling FAQs
7 Non-Medication Ways to Improve Depression and Anxiety (by Marcus Clarke)
Posted by Karen Young
14,678 views
Depression and anxiety exist on a spectrum, but what do we do when it starts happening too often and it doesn’t it go away? Medication can be a useful option for many people, but there are also many ways to improve depression and anxiety without using medication.
If you are on medication, it’s critical that you don’t withdraw from this without the guidance or supervision of your doctor.
The strategies that work best, or the combination that works best, will be different for everyone. Here are some that have been proven by research to have the capacity to ease depression and anxiety, but it will be important to be patient, consistent, and kind to yourself along the way.
Journaling – write your way out.
You don’t have to be good at writing to start journaling. No one has to read it. It’s a space to express however you feel at the moment. It can be your way to understand your thoughts and feelings. After you put every single thought that causes chaos inside your head on paper, your thinking will become clearer, giving you a chance to make plans to do something about it. There is increasing evidence to support the notion that journaling has a positive impact on physical well-being. Writing engages and occupies the left side of your brain, leaving the right side free to create and feel. Journaling is a great tool to remove your mental blocks, so you’ll be able to use all of your brainpower to better understand yourself and the world around you.
Self-talk – “Mirror, mirror on the wall”.
Talking to a friend is something that we all should do when we are feeling depressed and anxious, but the person who can understand you best is you. Try getting in front of a mirror and having a deep conversation with yourself, through your thoughts. Give yourself some encouragement, stop blaming yourself for being depressed and even speak out loud, telling yourself how amazing and valuable you really are. The results of the study, in which participants were practicing motivational self-talk, showed that self-talk can enhance self-confidence and reduce cognitive anxiety.
Irrational thoughts – don’t believe everything you think.
Feeling self-compassion and self-love can be tricky when you’re feeling anxious or depressed. There are certain thoughts that can come between you and your feeling of self-worth, self-belief, or the future that’s in front of you. Seeing only the worst possible outcome in everything is an example of a problematic thought. It’s important to identify those irrational thoughts and minimize their meaning, since they are only products of your current emotional distress. Irrational beliefs have been shown to be related to a variety of disorders such as depression and anxiety.
Self-help – get inspired to find a solution.
Self-help books for psychological disorders, particularly, have become increasingly popular. What does science have to say about self-help books, their overall usefulness, and the extent to which it offers specific guidance for implementing the self-help techniques? The most highly rated books tended to be those having a cognitive-behavioral perspective, those written by mental health professionals, those written by authors holding a doctoral degree, and those focusing on specific problems.
Exercise and eat healthy.
Healthy life habits are an unavoidable weapon of any “fight” against depression or anxiety. Even though exercise requires motivation, that can be hard to find when feeling anxious or depressed, once you get motivated, exercise can make a big difference. Regular exercise probably helps ease depression in a number of ways, which may include: releasing feel-good brain chemicals that may ease depression, reducing immune system chemicals that can worsen depression and increasing body temperature, which may have calming effects. When it comes to eating habits, it’s important to consume only moderate amounts of sugar and foods containing added sugar, limit caffeine intake and eat regular meals and snacks throughout the day. A balanced diet should give you all of the nutrients your body needs but some supplements containing particular vitamins can be useful when battling depression.
Explore psychotherapy.
If depression or anxiety is getting in the way of your everyday life, it may be time to consider psychotherapy. Anxiety and depression are treatable, and the majority of people can be helped with professional care. Every person is different and treatment must be tailored specifically for each individual. Cognitive-behavioral therapy is mostly used for treating depression. In CBT therapy the patient is actively involved in his or her own recovery, has a sense of control, and learns skills that are useful throughout life. Explore different possibilities that psychotherapy has to offer in order to find the one that gives you the most benefits.
Music-therapy.
After recognizing the power of music, professionals started using it while working with people on their mental health. Could they really succeed in treating depression or anxiety with music? There are scientific evidences that the music-therapy group had less depressive symptoms than the psychotherapy group. The study pointed out that depression is caused by lower dopamine levels and a lower number of dopamine receptors in the brain. Since music helps stimulate the areas of the brain connected to feeling rewarded it can provide intense pleasure in that area. This increases the positive affect which helps reduce depression.
When going through depression or anxiety, it’s important to be aware that there are many helpful options for you, such as positive self-talk, reevaluating your thoughts, exercising and eating healthy. You can also explore available self-help material or start with psychotherapy or music therapy.
About the Author: Marcus Clarke
Marcus has a degree in psychology, a masters degree in health psychology and has worked within the NHS as well as private organisations. Marcus started psysci a psychology and science blog in order to disseminate research into bitesize, meaningful and helpful resources.
Like this article?
Subscribe to our free newsletter for a weekly round up of our best articles
Filed under: Depression
8 Comments
Duncan September 27th, 2017
It’s great to see music therapy included on this list, and it’s worth mentioning it alongside other arts therapies (as they’re known to us arts therapists!) such as art psychotherapy, drama therapy, dance movement therapy, and even play therapy. These modalities have decades worth of research showing their clinical efficacies match and often exceed the results of purely verbal therapy, such as CBT. Indeed, art psychotherapy has been clinically proven to benefit even those dealing with the symptoms of psychoses, including paranoid schizophrenia, for example. It’s also worth mentioning that somatic psychotherapy is another fantastic modality, especially for those living with symptoms of trauma/PTSD. It’s a pity though that so many mental health treatments are prescribed by psychiatrists who often have little experience of engaging their patients in psychotherapy due to their reliance on using only medication.
Reply
Sunny October 7th, 2017
Yes, yes, yes. The Heart of Madness is a wonderful movie about art therapy. Also, pet therapy.
Reply
Lisa October 7th, 2017
Thanks for this. I’m working on a music curriculum for a private school founded on ‘multiple intelligence theory’…your last point is leading me to think I should include some work in musical therapy…teaching children to help themselves through dark times with music…valuable.
Reply
Andrew Jewell October 7th, 2017
Nice addition of music therapy and the mirror for self talk. Helpful for my clients. blessings
Reply
Dee October 9th, 2017
Music therapy seems interesting to me and I’d love to earn more about it. I’ve always found music to be helpful form me.
Reply
Ali October 19th, 2017
My son has been diagnosed severe general anxiety, although I suspect depression as well. I am at a loss as to what to do and say when he suddenly snaps into a tirade. Nothing helps so I shut up. I want him to know I am there for him and care.
Reply
Karen Young November 1st, 2017
When people are in high emotion, it’s impossible for them to hear any logic we might want them to hear. All you can go is let the storm wash over and then talk to him about it. Let him know the impact on you, and talk about other things he can do. I’m not sure about the age of your son, but here is an article that might help make sense of things for both of you https://www.heysigmund.com/anxiety-or-aggression-children/. If he is a teen, this might help https://www.heysigmund.com/anxiety-in-teens/ and if he is younger https://www.heysigmund.com/anxiety-in-kids/. It sounds as though you are a wonderful support for him. He will get through this.
Reply
raisabebita November 6th, 2017
I have an anxiety for more than 3 months and every time anxiety attack I felt chest pain and my blood pressure increase. I take medicine but I felt getting worse everyday.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
We’d love to hear what you’re thinking ...
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Bring Us To You!
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter to receive our articles to your inbox.
Facebook
63k Followers
Pinterest
19.5k Followers
Twitter
5.4k Followers
Instagram
5.3k Followers
Contact Me
karen@heysigmund.com
Hey Sigmund on Instagram
Load More
Follow on Instagram
Happiness and Depression Could Be Steered By the Same Genes
New Collection of Apps Can Reduce Depression and Anxiety by 50%
Life After Depression: How to Thrive – What Helps. What Gets in the Way
Compelling Research Discovers A Potential Cause of Depression Symptoms
Depression: Why Talking Isn’t Enough
Guest Post: Living With Depression and Anxiety. A Moving Personal Account
Content Share Guidelines
|
Privacy Policy
©2019 Hey Sigmund | All rights reserved
website by Excite Media
{"cart_token":"","hash":"","cart_data":""}