Seasonal affective disorder (SAD): Symptoms, causes, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD): What is it?
Last updated	 Mon 24 July 2017	 Last updated	Mon 24 Jul 2017
By Christian Nordqvist
Table of contents
What is SAD?
Symptoms
Risk factors
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
Seasonal affective disorder is a type of depression that occurs in the winter in countries that are far from the equator.
Also known as SAD, it is sometimes referred to as winter depression. As winter approaches, the mornings start later and the evenings begin earlier, so there is less sunlight each day. Experts say SAD is most likely caused by lack of sunlight alone and not by cold temperatures.
Depressive symptoms usually build up slowly as days start getting shorter, and they gradually subside in early spring, as the amount of sunlight rises each day.
Fast facts on SAD:
SAD did not receive a clinical name until the early 1980s.
The symptoms of SAD are similar to those of depression.
Common symptoms include low mood, lethargy, and social withdrawal.
What is SAD?
SAD (seasonal affective disorder) is a common seasonal issue affecting people who don't get enough natural sunlight.
SAD was first mentioned in scientific literature in 1845 but the condition did not get a clinical name until the early 1980s.
We know that seasonal variations in sunlight have an impact on animal behavior, for example, hibernation, reproduction, and seeking out a mate. Seasonal changes in sunlight affect our circadian rhythms, which are also referred to as our internal biological clocks.
SAD is thought to affect 4-6 percent of people in the United States and is more common among young adults with onset typically between 20 and 30 years of age. It is often seen in females more than males, although depression is more common, generally, in females.
It also occurs more in areas that are further north. For example, it is seven times more common in Washington State than in Florida.
Interestingly, people can have SAD during the summer, although this is rare.
Symptoms
The signs and symptoms of SAD are similar to those of depression, but they come on as winter approaches and go away during springtime. In the majority of cases, symptoms come back each year at around the same time.
Symptoms are usually mild as autumn advances, and they worsen as the amount of daylight drops. The severity, characteristics, and patterns of SAD can vary considerably from person-to-person.
About four-fifths of people who experience SAD develop unipolar depression, while the rest have bipolar depression. Unipolar means they have persistent depressive symptoms, while bipolar involves swinging from high or manic periods to very low or depressive ones.
The signs and symptoms of SAD include:
anxiety
feeling guilty and worthless
feeling stressed
indecision
irritability
low moods and despair
reduced libido
crying
lethargy, fatigue, hypersomnia
increased appetite
social withdrawal
difficulty concentrating
weight gain
Symptoms of spring and summer SAD
Insomnia is a common symptom of spring and summer SAD.
Rather than feeling depressed during the winter, some people have symptoms in the spring and summer. This type of SAD is rare, but symptoms can include:
insomnia
low mood
reduced appetite
weight loss
anxiety
agitation
The difference between depression and sadness
It is important to know the differences between sadness and depression.
Read now
Risk factors
There are factors that can affect who gets SAD and who is less likely to have the condition.
Sex - females are more likely than males to suffer from SAD, although this may be due to a greater prevalence of depression among women. Males may have more severe symptoms.
Geography - some studies suggest that the further someone lives from the equator, the higher the chances of developing SAD. Put simply, those who live in places where days are considerably shorter in winter are more susceptible.
Genetics - individuals with a close relative who has or had SAD have a greater risk.
Having, or having had depression - people with a history of depression or bipolar depression are more likely to develop SAD than those with no such history.
Causes
Experts are still unsure of the exact causes of SAD. However, studies have pointed to the following:
Circadian rhythm - our body clock. Each of us has an internal body clock that tells us when to be awake and asleep. Less sunlight in the winter is thought to disrupt our circadian rhythm, causing depressive symptoms.
Melatonin levels - melatonin is a hormone that influences our sleep patterns and mood. Experts believe that reduced exposure to sunlight through shorter days in winter disrupts our melatonin balance. People with SAD also have decreased serotonin levels during the winter months.
The hypothalamus - sunlight is thought to stimulate the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls sleep, mood, and appetite, all of which impact on how we feel. Similarly, production of serotonin, a brain chemical (neurotransmitter) that affects mood, may be affected by low sunlight.
Diagnosis
The doctor may carry out a physical exam and ask questions covering:
How long symptoms have been present, how severe they are, and how they affect daily activities.
What eating patterns are like.
General lifestyle questions.
Sleeping patterns and if they have changed.
How thoughts and behaviors change with the seasons.
Details about family medical history, such as depression, SAD, etc.
As there are several types of depression, diagnosing SAD accurately may take time. There is no medical or laboratory test that can diagnose the condition. The doctor may order some diagnostic tests, including blood tests, to rule out other illnesses or underlying conditions.
The American Psychiatric Association do not class SAD as a separate disorder under the DSM-5 criteria, but a "course specifier." They refer to it as "depression with seasonal pattern."
Treatment
Light therapy can help treat SAD.
According to the American Psychiatric Association, people may alleviate SAD symptoms by boosting their exposure to sunlight. For example, going for long walks outdoors when there is still some sunlight could help.
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the United Kingdom recommend that SAD treatment should be the same as for other types of depression, involving psychosocial and antidepressant medication.
Bright light therapy
If symptoms are so severe that they affect a person's daily life, light therapy is sometimes recommended. Bright light therapy, also known as phototherapy, can help restore circadian rhythm.
With this kind of therapy, a person sits in front of a special light for 30-90 minutes each day. It is important to purchase a light box that is designed for treating SAD. UV lamps, full-spectrum lights, and tanning lamps will not do the same job.
In general, light therapy is required from 30 minutes to 2 hours per day, depending on the strength of the light. Doctors say exposure in the mornings tends to give the best results.
A similar treatment is known as dawn simulation when a special light in the bedroom is programmed to get slowly lighter in the mornings, to simulate dawn.
Experts say this type of phototherapy also helps restore brain chemistry balance. Nobody is sure how all this occurs.
Psychotherapy
Although SAD involves a change to a person's brain chemistry, therapy that focuses on mood and behavior can also help.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is based on the premise that it is how a person thinks and reacts to things that causes unhappiness rather than the situation. For example, if the way a person perceives certain situations can be altered, their behavior will change, and their symptoms will be reduced.
CBT usually includes an individual program of self-help, and another for the person and their partner, if appropriate. Sometimes a group program can also be helpful.
Medication
A doctor may prescribe an antidepressant, usually a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), which raises serotonin levels.
Antidepressants do not work straight away; they can take from 10 days to 1 month to work well. Experts say antidepressants for SAD are more effective if taken at the beginning of the SAD season, before symptoms appear. Usually, they are taken daily until springtime.
People should always follow their doctor's instruction when taking these drugs.
Self-help
Some people have found that making their environment sunnier and brighter helps alleviate symptoms. Examples include opening blinds and curtains, trimming trees around the house, and sitting closer to the window during daytime.
Even in winter, the sun still comes up, and there is more sunlight outdoors than indoors. So, getting out every day for a long spell in the open air may help.
Similarly, exercise is not only good for the health but alleviates symptoms of anxiety and aids proper sleep. Exercises can also help people nurture a better self-image, which tends to lift their mood.
Related coverage
Do sad children overeat? Many adults overeat when they feel low, and some binge when they are elated. A new study investigates whether children do the same. Read now
How can you cope with seasonal affective disorder? More than just the 'winter blues,' seasonal affective disorder can turn the holiday season into a time of gloom and fatigue. So how can you keep it at bay? Read now
The diet that could reduce the risk of depression Closer adherence to the DASH diet, which is high in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, could help to stave off depression, new research reveals. Read now
Seasonal depression: Women more affected than men When it comes to symptoms of seasonal depression, a new study finds that women are more vulnerable than men, particularly in the winter months. Read now
What are the signs of mild depression? Mild depression leads to changes in moods and behavior. These altered emotions can seem and feel like regular responses. However, depression is a condition that should be addressed, and it can become more severe if left untreated. Here, learn about symptoms and treatments of mild and more serious types of depression. Read now
email email
print
share share
Depression
Psychology / Psychiatry
Additional information
Article last updated on Mon 24 July 2017.
Visit our Depression category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Depression.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Seasonal affective disorder. (2000, March 1). American Family Physician. 1;61(5):1531-1532. Retrieved from http://www.aafp.org/afp/2000/0301/p1531.html
Seasonal affective disorder. (n.d.). American Psychological Association. Retrieved from http://www.apa.org/helpcenter/seasonal-affective-disorder.aspx
Seasonal affective disorder may be linked to genetic mutation. (2008, October 30). University of Virginia. Retrieved from https://news.virginia.edu/content/seasonal-affective-disorder-may-be-linked-genetic-mutation-study-suggests
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) – treatment. (2015, September 1). Retrieved from http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Seasonal-affective-disorder/Pages/Treatment.aspx
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Nordqvist, Christian. "Seasonal affective disorder (SAD): What is it?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 24 Jul. 2017. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/10306.php>
APA
Nordqvist, C. (2017, July 24). "Seasonal affective disorder (SAD): What is it?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/10306.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Popular in: Depression
Can Lexapro cause weight changes?
Is it safe to drink alcohol while taking Lexapro?
Masturbation and depression: Is there a link?
How to cope with a depressive episode
How does depression affect the body?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/10306.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);