Virtual Pediatric Hospital: CQQA: Burns
Home | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Search | Connect with us @pedseducation on and @pedsimaging on
Additional pediatric resources: GeneralPediatrics.com | PediatricEducation.org | SearchingPediatrics.com
Pediatrics Common Questions, Quick Answers
Burns
Donna D'Alessandro, M.D.
Lindsay Huth, B.A.
Peer Review Status: Internally Reviewed
Creation Date: January 2002
Last Revision Date: April 2002
Common Questions, Quick Answers
Why are burns dangerous?
What can cause a burn?
How dangerous is the burn?
What kind of burn is it?
What should I do?
What should I not do?
How can I prevent burns?
When should I call the doctor?
Why are burns dangerous?
Burns damage skin, muscle, bones, and organs.
When the skin is burned, it can't protect the body against germs, prevent the loss of body fluid, or keep the body at a normal temperature.
What can cause a burn?
Sun
Fire
Matches
Hot plates
Chemicals
Curling irons
Heaters
Steam
Hot liquids, including baths
Electric cords
How dangerous is the burn?
How serious a burn is depends on the depth of the burn, the size of the burn, where the burn is, the age of the child, what caused the burn, and the child's health before the burn.
Burns to the head, neck, chest, and groin are the most dangerous.
Breathing in hot smoke and fumes is dangerous. Your child could be burned on the inside of her nose or in the air passages to her lungs. These are called inhalation burns. Call your doctor immediately.
Signs of inhalation burns include smoky breath, burns on the lips or in the mouth, burns on the face, burns in the nose, burned eyebrows, soot in the spit, coughing, drooling, shortness of breath, rapid breathing, or weak breathing.
What kind of burn is it?
A mild skin burn is a first degree burn. It turns the skin pink or red. There are no blisters or peeling.
A more serious burn is a second degree burn. It can leave open or peeling skin or form blisters.
A third degree burn is the most serious. It leaves the skin charred (black).
A scald is a burn from a hot liquid. This is the most common burn in children.
What should I do?
Some burns can be cared for at home. Some burns require emergency care or treatment by a doctor.
First Degree Burns
First degree burns (pink and red, no blisters) can be treated at home.
Take off hot clothes or metal rings. Cut clothing if needed.
Put the burned area under cold water. Do not use ice.
To prevent infection, keep the area clean and dry.
Do not put butter or cream on the burn.
Give acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain.
If blisters form, call your doctor.
Keep your child away from the cause of the burn. For example, if she has a sunburn, keep her out of the sun.
Second Degree Burns
Skin burns that form blisters are second degree burns. They should be seen by a doctor.
If the skin is opened, peeling, or blistered, see a doctor.
If the area is small, cover it with a clean, wet cloth and take the child to the emergency room or your doctor.
If the burned area is large, call 911. Cover the child with a cloth or a clean sheet.
Do not move the child unless needed for safety.
Give acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain.
If the child shivers, stop cooling and keep her warm.
Third Degree Burns
Third degree burns are the most serious. They leave the skin charred (black).
Your child's breathing should be checked first. Take care of burns after.
Treat like a second degree burn.
Take your child to the emergency room immediately.
In an emergency, dial 911.
What should I not do?
Do not put butter or oil on burns.
Do not break blisters.
Do not treat blisters at home.
How can I prevent burns?
Supervise your children. Do not leave them home alone.
Keep chemicals and matches in a high place. A place that can be locked is best.
Keep children away from heaters and other hot devices (such as a steam vaporizer).
Teach your toddler what the word "hot" means.
Teach older children what causes burns and how to avoid burns.
Always turn pot handles toward the back wall. Do not let them stick out where they can be bumped or reached by a child.
Have a family emergency plan in case of fire.
Turn water heater to 120-130 degrees.
Test the bath water before putting your child in.
Do not drink hot drinks while holding an infant or small child.
Use sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or more to prevent sunburn. Put on 30 minutes before going out in the sun.
Don't let your child be around while you are using hot appliances, such as curling irons or glue guns.
When should I call the doctor?
Call the doctor if you think your child has inhalation burns.
Go to the emergency room if your child has a burn that leaves open skin or blisters.
Go to the emergency room if your child has a burn that chars the skin.
Severe burns or burns that cover a large area are an emergency. Call 911.
Call the doctor if you are concerned about your child's burn.
Quick Answers
When the skin is burned, it can't protect the body against germs, prevent the loss of body fluid, or keep the body at a normal temperature.
How serious a burn is depends on the depth of the burn, the size of the burn, where the burn is, the age of the child, what caused the burn, and the child's health before the burn.
A mild skin burn is a first degree burn. The skin is red and pink. A more serious burn is a second degree burn. The skin is peeled back or blistered. A third degree burn is the most serious. The skin is charred (black).
Most first degree burns can be treated at home. Second and third degree burns should immediately be seen by a doctor. Some burns need emergency care. Call 911.
Do not put butter or oil on burns. Do not break blisters or treat blisters at home.
Teach children what causes burns and how to avoid burns. Have a plan in case of a fire.
References
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Burns. 1996-2001 (cited 2001 December 6). URL: http://www,chop.edu/consumer/your_child/wellness_index.jsp?id=-8864&printable=1
Allen P. Pediatric Burns. Fire Fighters Safety Magazine. 1997 (cited 2001 December 6). URL: http://www.safety-network.com/ffsm/pedburns.htm
Department of the Navy: bureau of Medicine and Surgery. Environmental Injuries. Virtual Naval Hospital. (cited 2001 December 14).
Title Page
Home | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Search | Connect with us @pedseducation on and @pedsimaging on
Additional pediatric resources: GeneralPediatrics.com | PediatricEducation.org | SearchingPediatrics.com
Virtual Pediatric Hospital is curated by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and by Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Please send us comments by filling out our Comment Form.
All contents copyright © 1992-2019 Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. and the authors. All rights reserved.
"Virtual Pediatric Hospital", the Virtual Pediatric Hospital logo, and "A digital library of pediatric information" are all Trademarks of Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Virtual Pediatric Hospital is funded in whole by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Advertising is not accepted.
Your personal information remains confidential and is not sold, leased, or given to any third party be they reliable or not.
The information contained in Virtual Pediatric Hospital is not a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician. There may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
URL: http://www.virtualpediatrichospital.org/