Can Vitiligo Patient Take Vitamin C_Vitiligo Disease Treatment
FREE INQUIRY Facebook
Contact us
About us
Email:bjzkhospital@gmail.com
SiteMap
Email : bjzkhospital@gmail.com
WhatsApp:008618519108583
Vitiligo Cure Chinese Medicine for Vitiligo
Home
Vitiligo ▼
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Treatment
Psoriasis
Our Hospital▼
Vitiligo Hospital
Psoriasis Hospital
Environment
Equipment
Expert Team
Online Doctor
Healthy Living
Patients Stories
FAQs
Contact us
Home > FAQs >
Vitiligo Disease
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Links
Doctors
Equipment
Vitiligo Hospital
Vitiligo Hospital
Healthy Living
Patients Stories
White Patches Disappear: I Can Visit My Girlfriend Family
A Patient From Congo Rehabilitate From Vitiligo In Our Hospital
A Successful Vitiligo Treatment Case of a Chinese Young Man
Contact Us
bjzkhospital@gmail.com
008613051357947
bjmeidi
Hot Article
Does Vitiligo is a Incurable Disease
Does Exposure To Sunlight Will Induce Vitiligo
5 Inducing Factors For Vitiligo
Is There a Medicine to Cure Vitiligo
Fruits For Vitiligo Patients
Attentions For Vitiligo patients During Treatment
How Is Dermatitis Treated
Can Vitiligo Patient Take Vitamin C
As we all known that Vitiligo is a chronic skin condition which characterized by some parts of the skin losing their pigment. It happens when skin pigment cells lack or are unable to produce. Apart from couple cases of contact with certain chemicals, the cause of vitiligo is still unknown.Meanwhile, vitiligo can occurs among any people without gender and skin color difference, the recent medical studies has showed that vitamin treatment have offered a mixed results, there is also a mystery of what vitamins to take for vitiligo .
When it comes to the vitamin deficiencies of vitiligo patients. The common vitamin deficiencies in people with vitiligo like: folic acid, B-12, copper and zinc. Eventually, some of the doctors probably gonna prescribe vitamin supplements to fortify patient’s immune system.
Vitamin-B12 with Folic Acid
When it comes to the Vitamin-B12, the recent medicalStudies are mainly focusing on vitamin B-12 deficiencies and it shows a high incidence of vitiligo among people with pernicious anemia(a condition that hinders B-12 absorption). However, there is no any medical research shows that supplementing vitamin B-12, or B-12 with folic acid can help improve skin pigmentation.
Vitamin D
When it comes to the Viatamin D, it actually is a Nutrient substance which huaman body most needed.Meanwhile, the medical studies have found that autoimmune diseases like vitiligo got increased as the latitude increased.So the experts got a conclusion that vitamin D synthesis may play a very important role in the development of vitiligo, there are also couple of other studies suggested that adequate vitamin D intake can possibly decrease the risk of autoimmune diseases like vitiligo.
As a result of this tremendous discovery, the experts should examin the vitamin D portion of vitiligo patients in order to get a clearly treatment items and for the best curative effect.
Email: bjzkhospital@gmail.com
Skype: bjmeidi
WhatsApp: +86 18500025611 , +86 18500025611
Tag: FAQs Vitiligo FAQs
Pre：Is SOD 6+1 Removing Leucoderma Therapy Effective For Patients Who Can’t Be Cured For Long Time
Next：When The Patients Are Easy To Get Psoriasis
As for you own illness conditions, you can get some guidance related to diet, exercise, medicines or some natural remedies. The online consultation service is free. Please remember to leave your email address, or phone number so that we can contact you and help you!
Please leave the patient's FULL name in case of a duplicate, and to make our doctor give timely response and help.
Full Name：
Country：
Email:
Skype：
Whatsapp:
Viber：
Phone Number：
Disease：
Vitiligo Psoriasis Acne Hair Loss Eczema Dermatitis
Message：
Related Articles
Does Vitiligo Can Be Cured
Bath Attentions For Patients With Vitiligo On Legs
How To Cure Vitiligo From The Root
Does Vitiligo Can Damage The Eyes
Diet Attentions For Vitiligo
Does Chinese Medicine Can Treat Vitiligo
Quick Links
Vitiligo
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Cure
Web map
Treatmet
Chinese Medicine Treatment for Vitiligo
Acupuncture Treatment for Vitiligo
Laser for vitiligo
PUVB
Contact Address
NO 18, Santai Mountain Streat Intersection South, Daxing Dirtrict,China.
Phone
008601087626355
WhatsApp
008618519108583
Email
bjmeidi@hotmail.com
Helpline
0086-01087626355
Follow us
Website content statement: the information on this website is for reference only, and can not be used as a medical basis for diagnosis and treatment.
Friendly Links : Vitiligo Cure