Should we feed a cold and starve a fever? - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Meals for oneMeals for one can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Videos
My workplace
Allergies and intolerances
Cancer advice
Exercise motivation
How to look after your heart
Healthy weight starts here
My family’s health
Mental wellbeing and resilience
Men’s health
Manage your diabetes
New ideas for work lunches and snacks
Quick and easy dinner ideas
Special diets/meat free diets
Staying healthy as we age
Tired and stressed?
Tips to reduce cholesterol
Women’s health
Where to get help
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
BLOG
Should we feed a cold and starve a fever?
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
It’s definitely feeling wintery now, and besides the positives of that – hearty stews and soups, cosy nights by the fire – we have the negatives. Yes, it’s cold and flu season again! So how can we eat to beat a cold or flu, and can we prevent it in the first place? Is there a food link? Here’s some advice from HFG senior nutritionist, Rose Carr.
Colds and flu are quite different, and sometimes it can be tricky to tell what you have. The flu is not just a bad cold (even though a bad cold may feel as bad as the flu!). Flu is generally more severe. Both conditions are caused by viruses. With a cold you generally start with a sore throat and a few sniffles. While you can get a mild fever at the start of a cold, you often won’t. Over the first few days you may start sneezing more frequently, a runny nose becomes more apparent, the mucus tends to get thicker, and you may develop a cough before symptoms finally taper off. The whole process can take a couple of days, or it may be a couple of weeks before it passes.
The flu, on the other hand, is more likely to knock you over and send you right to bed. The first symptom can often be the chills, a headache or an aching body. You’ll have a 38°C or higher fever in the first few days. You may not get the full range of cold-like symptoms, but there’ll be one or two. You’re also likely to be lethargic and even when you are recovering, your energy levels may remain low for a while.
While there are plenty of cold and flu tablets available to help suppress the symptoms, rest is the best course of action. You may find you can’t get out of bed for a few days while you have a high fever. In some work places, ‘soldiering on’ is encouraged, and with a cold you usually can – but you need to consider how productive you will be and whether you can avoid passing it on to your co-workers. Colds and flu are most contagious in the first few days and can continue to be contagious for up to a week or so. Scrupulous hygiene is the best way to prevent spreading a cold or flu virus. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water and dry them well, or use a hand sanitiser. Make sure you always cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when coughing or sneezing, then bin your used tissues.
The old adage ‘feed a cold and starve a fever’ may not be the best advice
A fever speeds up your metabolism – so even though you may be resting, your body needs energy and nutrients from food to help fight the illness. When you have a cold you may find you have a reduced appetite – especially if you are all blocked up and can’t smell and taste your food – but your body needs energy and nutrients to fight off a cold virus, too.
Once you’ve come down with a cold or flu, what you eat and drink may help you feel better, but it won’t necessarily shorten the duration. Fluids are the most important. If you have a fever, you’re more prone to dehydration. Sipping fluids often will keep the lining of your nose and throat passages moist and the mucus fluid. Warm fluids – such as the traditional chicken soup or hot water with lemon and honey – can help to clear nasal passages and may soothe a sore throat. Herbal teas, juice, water and soups help keep fluids up, but limit or avoid caffeinated drinks and alcohol, which can be dehydrating.
When it comes to food, it depends on what you can handle eating, but go for nutrient-dense foods such as porridge, fruit smoothies or vegetable soup with dry wholegrain toast.
So can we prevent getting a cold or flu in the first place?
An adequate intake of a range of vitamins and minerals is essential for your immune system to perform at its best. It’s recommended that you get your vitamins and minerals from food (as opposed to supplements) so you also get the protective phytochemicals and macronutrients they contain. A varied diet, with plenty of fruit and veg, is your best defence.
High levels of stress and a lack of good-quality sleep can also affect your immunity and make you more vulnerable to colds and flu. One of the best ways to keep stress at bay is through regular exercise, which will help you sleep better, too. There’s no solid evidence for or against taking supplements when it comes to preventing or recovering from a cold.
Author: Niki Bezzant
Healthy Food Guide
First published: Jun 2013
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
workplace.healthyfood.com
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
ADVICE
Can any foods beat colds and flu?
ADVICE
Beat colds and flu
ADVICE
Six everyday foods to increase immunity
ADVICE
Immune-boosting foods
Date modified: April 3 2017
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back