Can Yogic Breathing Help with Asthma?
It looks like you have javascript turned off. This Can Yogic Breathing Help with Asthma? page on EmpowHER Women's Health works best with javascript enabled in your browser.
Toggle navigation
Women's Health & Wellness
Get HER Health News
Would You Consider Biphasic Sleep?
courtneysunday
Sleep Disorders
Log in | Register
Health A-Z
Bones & Joints
Breast Cancer
Cancer
Diabetes
Ears, Nose & Throat
Financial Health
Healthy Eating
Menopause
Menstrual Cycle
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sex & Relationships
Sexual Health
Skin, Hair & Nails
Sleep Disorders
HER Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
HER Health Stories
Post your Health Story
HER Health News
HER Healthy Living
HER Health Hubs
HER Health Communities
Featured Tools
Advocacy Checklists
HER Podcast
HER Health Meter
SkinSAFE
Home
>
Conditions
>
Lung Conditions
>
Asthma
>
Can Yogic Breathing Help with Asthma?
Can Yogic Breathing Help with Asthma?
By Dr. Daemon Jones Expert HERWriter
Average Select ratingPoorFairAverageGoodExcellent
Rate This
`
1 comments View Comments
Print
Text Size
julief514/Fotolia
During an asthma attack you can have difficulty catching your breath. In fact, at times it can feel like you are suffocating.
Asthma comes from the Greek word for “panting.” If you have had an asthma attack, you know just how uncomfortable the feeling is.
Asthma is a life-long lung disease that causes inflammation in the airways of the lungs. It causes the lungs to be overly sensitive.
During an asthma attack the airways that lead into the lungs become smaller and narrower. This makes it hard to allow air to pass into the lungs. The muscles in the airways constrict and make the airways even smaller.
This Article
Vote Improved My Health 1
Vote Changed My Life
Vote Saved My Life
Finally, any particles in the air cause mucous cells to secrete mucus which also blocks the airways, preventing air movement into the lungs.
The combination of all this creates tightness and constriction in the chest, difficulty breathing, wheezing, coughing and shortness of breath.
The most common treatment for asthma is using an inhaler, which provides temporary relief for asthma symptoms, especially in the early moments of an attack. It is easy for an inhaler to be overused.
People used to use inhalers round the clock, but this has been determined to be harmful. Only use them as needed along with any other regular treatments or medications, according to current recommendations.(3)
Doing yoga may be a way to reduce the need for those inhalers as you practice methods that help strengthen your lungs, improve your breathing and induce relaxation to help avoid asthma attacks.
People look towards yoga to help with breathing exercises. When you have asthma it is important to realize that retraining your breathing can affect breathing problems too.
If you are interested in trying breathing techniques you have to start slowly and build up over time. This is the best way to use these breathing techniques. If you feel uncomfortable stop the exercises and rest.
Barbara Benagh, a yoga instructor and former asthmatic recommends these five exercises.
Exercise 1: Deep Relaxation Breathing
Lie down and practice belly breathing, checking in with how you are feeling.
1
2
Next >
>>
Article Sources
1) Learning to Breath Again: An Asthmatics Guide To Retraining Breathing Patterns. Yogajournal.com May 24, 2016.
http://www.yogajournal.com/article/health/asthma-answers
2) "What Is Asthma?." - NHLBI, NIH. N.p., n.d. Web. May 24 2016.
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/asthma
3) Donald W. Cockcroft. As-Needed Inhaled β2-Adrenoceptor Agonists in Moderate-to-Severe Asthma. Therapy In Practice Treatments in Respiratory Medicine. June 2005, Volume 4, Issue 3, pp 169-174.
First online: 23 August 2012 at
http://link.springer.com/article/10.2165/00151829-200504030-00002
More on This
COPD Drug May Help Late Phase Asthma Attacks
Climate Change Spectators: Take 5 Steps to Reduce Your Impact
Breathe Deeply: 10 Habits for Healthy Lungs
Asthma Sufferers Have More Control Using Smart Inhalers
Add a Comment1 Comments
Sapana
Dear Dr Jones, This is very useful information. I dont have Asthama but I personally find breathing exercises very effective. I know 2 children around age 5 years old who are having mild Asthama. Are these breathing yoga exercises safe for kids too?
May 27, 2016 - 5:29am
reply
Flag as offensive
This Comment
Improved My Health
Changed My Life
Saved My Life
Do you really want to post anonymously?
Are You a Member? Log InConnect your comment to your member profile. It only takes a second!
Not a Member? Join Now!You'lll be automatically notified when someone else comments on your post.
Tell us what you think Write your comment here *
Leave this field blank
Receive email notifications of new comments Email Addresss
Sign me up for EmpowHER Updates
What code is in the image? *
Enter the characters shown in the image.
By submitting this form, you agree to EmpowHER's terms of service and privacy policy
Add a Comment
Dr. Daemon Jones Expert HERWriter View Profile Send Message
We value and respect our HERWriters' experiences, but everyone is different. Many of our writers are speaking from personal experience, and what's worked for them may not work for you. Their articles are not a substitute for medical advice, although we hope you can gain knowledge from their insight.
Tags:
Asthma
Holistic Health
Asthma
Get Email Updates
Definition & Overview
Prevention
Causes & Risks
Symptoms & Diagnosis
Treatments
News & Opinion
Community & Groups
Videos
Related Topics
Lung Conditions
Sinus Infection
Heartburn (GERD)
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Allergies
Bronchitis
Emphysema
Eosinophilia
Atrial Fibrillation
Pulmonary Hypertension
Insomnia
Sleepwalking
Pneumothorax
Snoring
Eczema
Angioedema
More
Join a Group Now
Talk to women like you
about Asthma
Related Checklists
Asthma Advocacy Sheet
Asthma Guide
Empowered
Alison Beaver
Have a question? We're here to help. Ask the Community.
ASK
Health Newsletter
Receive the latest and greatest in women's health and wellness from EmpowHER - for free!
Improved
5910 Health
Changed
3687 Lives
Saved
3485 Lives
1 lives impacted in the last 24 hrs Learn More
ASK A Health Question
POST Info, Tips and Stories
Company
About HER
Press
Advertise
Policies
Feedback
My Account
Log in
Register
Get Email Updates
Subscribe
Follow HER
All content is Copyright © 2019 HER Inc. dba EmpowHER unless otherwise noted. All Rights Reserved. EmpowHER does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. View more info
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.