The Best OTC Scar Removal Creams | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Scars
The Best OTC Scar Removal Creams
Cindy Ell
About the Author:
Cindy Ell
Cindy Ell began writing professionally in 1990. A former medical librarian, she has written materials for hospitals, medical associations, the "Nashville Scene" and "Coping Magazine." She received her Bachelor of Arts in linguistics from the University of Massachusetts and her Master of Library and Information Science from Pratt Institute. She is currently a full-time freelance medical writer.
According to the American Academy of Dermatology, scar formation is part of the natural process of healing. Ironically, younger, healthy skin is more likely to be efficient at this process and form visible, thick scars following a skin injury. Certain over-the-counter preparations can be effective in reducing scars. Consult your dermatologist for more information about which will work best for your skin.
Kelo-cote
Kelo-cote is a quick drying, silicone-based product that has been recommended by the International Advisory Panel on Scar Management. When Kelo-cote dries on the skin, it creates a breathable yet waterproof membrane that helps to smooth, flatten and soften the scar. The product is a first-line treatment for hypertrophic scars and keloids, types of scars in which extra skin dermal tissue builds up following a skin injury. Kelo-cote also can be used on stretch marks, acne scars and chicken pox scars.
Scarguard
Scarguard is an over-the-counter preparation made with cortisone, silicone and vitamin E. Designed to be used for up to four months after a wound has healed, it forms a protective coating that helps scars flatten and shrink. A study in the "Aesthetic Surgery Journal" reported that Scarguard may help to increase production of collagenase, an enzyme that helps break down the excess collagen that is responsible for raised scars.
Mederma
Mederma is a widely available scar-removal product whose active ingredient is onion extract. According to a study by Dr Z. Draelos, published in the "Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology," onion extract has both anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. This substance may also help with the organization of collagen, a crucial building block of skin and connective tissue. Draelos followed 60 volunteers who had a lesion removed by a dermatologist. After their surgical sites healed for two to three weeks, half of the volunteers used Mederma, while the other half received no scar treatment. Draelos found that the the volunteers who used Mederma had less scarring and a better appearance at the excision site than the control group.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
American Academy of Dermatology: What Is a Scar
"Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery"; International Clinical Recommendations on Scar Management; T. Mustoe et al; Aug. 2002
"Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology"; The Ability of Onion Extract Gel to Improve the Cosmetic Appearance of Postsurgical Scars; Z. Draelos; Jun. 2008
"Aesthetic Surgery Journal"; The Effect of Scarguard on Collagenase Levels Using a Full-Thickness Epidermal Model; M. Beckenstein et al; Nov./Dec. 2004
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
The Best Surgery Scar Creams for Old Scars
2
Mederma Vs. Vitamin E Oil
3
How to Get Rid of Scars From Belly Piercings
4
How to Prevent Keloids on the Skin After a Cesarean
5
How to Get Rid of Stretch Marks on Dark Skin
6
How to Get Rid of Scars on Toes
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.