AOR Stress & Anxiety Supplement Reviews | Social Nature
Sign Up
Sign Up
Login
Sign Up
Sign Up
Login
Try Products
How It Works
Our Criteria
Our Story
Our Blog
Stress & Anxiety Supplement
By AOR
Want It
Open to residents of Canada
Share It!
0
6
0
Email
Highlights
Stress & anxiety supplement
Get a FREE 60 capsule bottle of AOR's Zen Theanine
Value: $40.99
A calming amino acid found primarily in green tea
Promotes a calm, relaxed alertness without causing drowsiness
Can be taken to to help you focus, relax or fall asleep
Fast-acting and effective with one high-dose capsule
Description Ingredients
Zen Theanine contains L-theanine, a calming amino acid which is beneficial for those who suffer from stress and anxiety and find it difficult to focus, relax, or fall asleep. First discovered in 1949, L-theanine is a unique amino acid found in green tea which helps reduce nervousness and restlessness, promoting relaxation without causing drowsiness. L-theanine rapidly enters the body when ingested (within roughly 30-40 minutes) and relaxes the brain, calms racing thoughts and creates feelings of “zen” while promoting alertness and concentration. L-theanine influences the levels of the neurotransmitters dopamine, serotonin and GABA in the brain, balancing mood, sleep and learning capacity. L-theanine reduces feeling of stress by inhibiting some of the actions of norepinephrine (a stress hormone) in the central nervous system.
AOR’s Zen Theanine provides an optimal dose of L-theanine to provide fast-acting mental relaxation, with its stress reducing effects typically felt within 30 minutes of consumption.
L-Theanine 225mg
Non-medicinal ingredients: Mycrocrystalline cellulose
Capsule: hypromellose
People Wanting This (0)
Be the first to want this!
AOR Reviews (0) Where to Buy
Reviews are coming soon.
Company
Our Story
Our Team
Careers
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Learn More
How It Works
Help / FAQs
Our Criteria
#trynatural Blog
For Brands/Agencies
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2019 Social Nature
Notifications
Loading notifications...
Like Us on Facebook!
Be the first to know about new products, get exclusive invites and more.
×
We know you want it!
Create Account
Already have an account? Login