Hair Loss Treatments - McLean Dermatology & Skincare Center
Patient Info Pay Bill (703) 356-5111
About Concerns Treatments Products Spa Contact
About Us
About McLean Dermatology
Accolades
Blog
Media
Career Opportunities
Contact Us
Our Providers
Lily Talakoub, MD, FAAD
Isabela T. Jones, MD, FAAD
Patrick P. Lotfi, DMD
Sarah Walker, NP
Azi Kohan, Master Esthetician
Patty Farajollahi, Lash Technician
Patient Information
Patient Forms
Insurance and Billing
Pay Bills Online
Request Appointment
Special Offers
Products
Concerns
Acne
Acne Scars
Allergic Reaction
Birthmarks
Broken Blood Vessels
Brown Spots
Cosmetic Consultation
Cysts
Dermatitis
Double Chin
Dry Skin
Eczema
Enlarged Pores
Excessive Sweating (Hyperhidrosis)
Fat
Growths
Hair Dye Allergy
Hair Loss
Hives
Hyperpigmentation
Lipoma
Loose Skin
Melasma
Moles
Nail Fungus
Neck Lines
Psoriasis
Rashes
Rosacea
Shingles
Skin Cancer
Skin Tag
Skin Tightening
Sun Damage
Thin Lips
Thinning Eyelashes
Urinary Incontinence
Vaginal Rejuvenation
Varicose Veins
Warts
Wrinkles
Medical Treatments
Acne Treatments
Allergic Reaction Treatment
Botox for Hyperhidrosis
Hair Loss Treatments
Light Therapy (LED)
Propecia
Rash Treatments
Rosacea Treatments
Wart Removal
Surgical Treatments
Cyst Removal
Earlobe Repair
Lipoma Removal
Mole Removal
Scar Revision
Skin Cancer Treatment
Skin Tag Removal
Cosmetic Treatments
Belotero
Birthmark Treatments
Botox Cosmetic
Clear and Brilliant
CoolSculpting
Dermal Fillers
Dysport
Facelift by Syringe
Facial Contouring
Fractional Laser Treatments
Intense Pulsed Light (IPL)
Invisalign
Juvederm
Kybella
Laser Treatments
Latisse
Microdermabrasion
Microneedling
Palomar Icon Laser Treatments
Photofacial
Platelet-Rich Plasma – PRP
PRP for Breast Augmentation
Radiesse
Restylane
Restylane Lyft
Sclerotherapy
Sculptra
Stretchmark Treatment
Subcision
Teeth Whitening
ThermiSmooth
ThermiTight
ThermiVa
Thread Lift
Volbella
Vollure
Voluma
MedSpa
Dermaplaning
Enhancements
Facials
Lashes
Peels
Skin Rejuvenating Treatments
Tinting
Waxing
Spa
Facials
Azi's Recommendation
Bridal facial
Crystal Microdermabrasion
Deep Cleansing Facial
Dermaplaning Lunch Time Facial
Facial Cupping
Gentleman's Facial
Glow Facial
Intense Deep Cleansing Facial
Intense Hydrating Facial
Lunch Time Facial
Lunch Time Facial with Perm and Tint
Mama Mia Pregnancy Facial
Papaya Enzyme Exfoliation
Rosacea Facial
Radiance Facial
Soothing Skin Lift Facial
Lashes
Eyelash Extensions
Eyelash Tint
Lash Lift or Perm
Enhancements
Eye Treatment
Dermaplaning
LED Light Treatment
LED Light Treatment and Mask
Hand Peel
Neck & Chest Peel
Tinting
Perfect Eyebrow Tint
Perfect Eyelash Tint
Peels
Brightening Berry Peel
Cellular Replenishing Peel
Chocolate Peel
Glycolic Acid Acne Peel
Hand/Arm/Leg Peel
Jessner's Peel
Obagi Blue Radiance Peel
Rosacea Peel
10 Weeks to Perfect Skin Peel
TCA Peel
Ultimate Back Peel
Waxing
Eyebrow Wax
Lip or Chin Wax
Dermatology Office
Visit Us
Call Us
Email Us
Request Appointment
Schedule with Dermatologist
Our Location
Mclean Dermatology and Skincare Center
6849 Old Dominion Drive, Suite 450
Mclean, VA 22101
(703) 356-5111
Home | Treatment | Hair Loss Treatments
Hair Loss Treatments
Hair loss can be a frustrating and complicated issue to deal with. There are a variety of different types of hair loss. Causes of hair loss can range from stress, genetics, to underlying issues within the body. Treatments for hair loss are specific to the type of hair loss you are experiencing, and can range from a simple supplement regimen to oral medications. Blood work is sometimes performed in an attempt to target the underlying cause of hair loss.
Androgenetic Alopecia (Genetic Hair Loss)
Androgenetic alopecia is also know as male and female pattern baldness or hereditary hair loss. Everyone loses hair. It is normal to lose about 50-100 hairs every day. However, if you see bald patches or lots of thinning, you may be experiencing alopecia. The most common type of alopecia is a medical condition called hereditary hair loss. About 80 million men and women in the United States have this type of hair loss.
There are many reasons why people experience hair loss. However, if hair loss is gradual and becomes more noticeable with each passing year, it is likely hereditary hair loss.
Treatment
Several treatment options exist for androgenetic alopecia, including Rogaine (minoxidil), estrogen (for women), and various androgen-blocking agents, including Propecia (finasteride) and spironolactone (for women). Rogaine (minoxidil) is suggested for both men and women. Patients using minoxidil 5% foam for hair loss must consistently use it on the scalp once a day for approximately 1 year before any results will be visible. It’s important to note that patient’s using minoxidil 2%-5% solution must apply the solution to their scalp twice daily. Rogaine can also be effective in the treatment of senescent hair thinning. Propecia (finasteride), an oral prescription medication, is FDA approved to treat male pattern baldness. Propecia is currently undergoing trials for FDA approval in women. Women may be prescribed Propecia if there is zero risk that they may become pregnant (post-menopausal, hysterectomy, etc.)
Alopecia Areata
Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disease. Autoimmune means that the body’s immune system attacks the body. Alopecia occurs when the immune system attacks the hair follicles (structures that contain the roots of the hair). A person’s genetic makeup, combined with other factors, triggers this form of hair loss. It can occur at any age; it often begins in childhood. Alopecia is not contagious. It is not due to nerves. This disease most often occurs in otherwise healthy people.
Treatment
There is no cure for alopecia areata. Hair often re-grows on its own. Treatment, however, can help the hair re-grow more quickly. One or more treatments help the hair re-grow more quickly. Treatments include use of corticosteroids, which suppress the immune system, Minoxidil, which allow hair to re-grow, Anthralin, which alters the skin’s immune function, and Diphencyprone (CPCP), which causes a small allergic reaction to trick the immune system.
Telogen Effluvium
Telogen effluvium is a form of nonscarring (temporary) hair loss characterized by diffused hair shedding. This type of hair loss often occurs noticed suddenly after an individual has experienced stress. Physical stress, or illness, can cause this type of hair loss, as can emotional stress.
Treatment
No treatment is needed as generally, recovery is spontaneous and occurs within 6 months. Remember that the hairs fall out when a new hair growing beneath it pushes it out. Thus with this type of hair loss, hair falling out is a sign of hair regrowth. As the new hair first comes up through the scalp and pushes out the dead hair a fine fringe of new hair is often evident along the forehead hairline. To help hair regrowth, the following supplements are recommended:
– Daily prenatal vitamin (for women) with DHA and EPA daily
– Viviscal Professional (2 capsules per day)
– Biotin once daily (5,000mg per day)
Lichen Planopilaris (LPP)
Lichen planopilaris, or scarring alopecia, is a rare inflammatory condition that results in progressive, permanent hair loss. This occurs most often on the scalp. LPP usually affects young adult women, although the age range is wide and can also affect men. Although LPP is rare, it is one of the most common causes of scarring hair loss on the scalp. The cause of LPP is unknown.
Treatment
The goals of treatment are to improve patient symptoms and to slow progression of the disease. There is no current treatment to recover hairs that have been lost and replaced by scarring, which is why early treatment is important. Hair loss may continue even with treatment, but at a slower rate.
– Topical and intralesional steroids
– Oral medications (glucocorticoids, hydroxychloroquine)
Traction Alopecia
Traction alopecia is hair loss due to tight pulling on the hair, such as from frequently wearing your hair in a tight ponytail or braid. It is very common in African American women and in those who wear hair weaves.
Treatment
Unfortunately once the hair is lost, there is no treatment to regrow it. To prevent further loss, you should not wear your hair in a tight hairstyle. Instead you should wear your hair naturally or in loose braids or a loose ponytail. It is also important to change your hairstyle frequently so as to not cause hair loss in one particular area. Do not wear a hair weave to cover up the hair loss as this can actually worsen the hair loss.
Related Concerns
Hair Loss
Thinning Eyelashes
Request an appointment with Skinkure Medical Spa
Your First Name *
Your Last Name *
Your Email *
Your Phone *
Message
Sign Up for Our Newsletter!
Submit
Get Social! Share Hair Loss Treatments
Highlights
Botox
CoolSculpting
Eczema
Kybella
Acne
Brown Spots
Skincare Tips
Learn about the latest technologies and trends in skin care at McLean Dermatology!
Our Blog
Quick Search
Go!
Special Offers
View our special offers at McLean Dermatology!
Our specials
Engage with Us
Rate your experience with Lily Talakoub, MD on RealSelf.com!
Rate Now
AS SEEN IN
Join Our Newsletter!
Join!
McLean Dermatology
McLean Dermatology & Skincare Center
6849 Old Dominion Dr., Suite 450
McLean, VA 22101
(703) 356-5111
Hours of Operation
Monday: 7:30AM to 5:30PM
Tuesday: 7:30AM to 7:30PM
Wednesday: 7:30AM to 5:30PM
Thursday: 7:30AM to 6:30PM
Friday: 7:30AM to 6:30PM
Saturday: 8:00AM to 5:00PM
Request Appointment
Latest Blog
The Magic Of Microblading
Fish pedicures
Whole body cryotherapy
Media
TV Appearances
In The News
Accolades
© 2019 McLean Dermatology and Skincare Center.
Website by Urge Interactive
Popular Concerns
Skin Tightening
Urinary Incontinence
Vaginal Rejuvenation
Popular Treatments
Invisalign
Teeth Whitening
Allergic Reaction Treatment
Recent Blog
The Magic Of Microblading
Fish pedicures
Whole body cryotherapy
Contact Us!
(703) 356-5111
Email
Schedule Online