5 quick-relief remedies for acute sinusitis | Good Zing
Search Topics A-Z
Meet Your Experts
Articles
Categories
Bad Habits
Emotions
Beauty
Health
About
Events
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
Register
Login
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
MENU
Search Topics A-Z
Meet Your Experts
Articles
Share Your Health Tip
Bad Habits
Emotions
Beauty
Health
About
Events
Register
Login
5 Quick-Relief Remedies for Acute Sinusitis According to a GP
November 07, 2018 By Dr Emma Crawley General Practitioner
What you can do about easing the symptoms of a sinus infection at home and when to see a Doctor if your condition worsens.
5 Quick-Relief Remedies for Acute Sinusitis According to a GP
November 07, 2018 By Dr Emma Crawley General Practitioner
Like Us On Facebook
What you can do about easing the symptoms of a sinus infection at home and when to see a Doctor if your condition worsens.
Share your own health tip
Become a Good Zing Insider today!
You feel that telltale tickle in the back of your throat – that oh so familiar sign that winter is coming (and your glands know it, too). But do you know what’s worse than getting a common cold? Being infected by sinusitis, a more serious condition, which causes swelling and inflammation, making it hard to breathe.
So what do you do when a full-on cold isn’t your common sniffles? How can you tell if it’s sinusitis rearing its ugly head instead? Let’s find out what sinusitis is and the different ways you can keep your cold symptoms under wraps and avoid being infected in the future.
What is sinusitis?
Sinusitis is a condition where there is inflammation of a sinus. Your sinuses are small air-filled spaces situated within the bones of your face, in your forehead and cheekbones. They’re lined with a mucous lining and are connected to the nose. When the sinuses become swollen and inflamed, they can block the openings that lead to the nose, and begin to accumulate fluid. This can be really painful and make you feel completely blocked up and congested.
What causes sinusitis?
Most cases of sinusitis are caused by viral infections following a cold or flu. Rarely, sinusitis can be caused by a bacteria (2 in 100 cases), however this will give symptoms of severe pain, possible bloody nasal discharge and make you feel very unwell (1). Other causes of sinusitis include hay fever, growths known as nasal polyps, facial injury or surgery, objects pushed into the nose (especially in children, such as peas or plastic beads), cystic fibrosis and smoking.
Symptoms of sinusitis
Other symptoms include nasal discharge of green/yellow mucous, a feeling of mucous in the back of your nose or throat, high temperature, feeling tired and unwell, bad breath (known as halitosis), and a reduced sense of taste and smell.
What are the different types of sinusitis?
• Acute sinusitis
With acute sinusitis, the infection develops quickly and usually lasts a short time. Most cases of sinusitis take about 7 days worth of time to go away but it’s not unusual to last 2-3 weeks. However it should resolve completely within 12 weeks.
• Chronic sinusitis
Chronic sinusitis means that the condition becomes persistent and lasts for longer than 12 weeks. Chronic sinusitis is uncommon.
Acute sinusitis treatment home remedies
1. Saline rinse
Making a saline rinse at home is one of the easiest and most practical ways to help flush out any nasties and germs in your nasal passages and help improve congestion naturally. Salt is a pure cleanser that can help promote faster healing, so mix away with some water to create your own homemade version.
If you think you need something a little stronger, head to the pharmacy and get advice on which saline rinse or nasal drops are right for you.
2. Warm facecloth
One of the most uncomfortable aspects of dealing with sinusitis is having pain and swelling all over the face. Some people like to place warm face packs or heated flannels around their sinuses to help relieve any pain.
3. Hydrate with plenty of fluids
Keeping hydrated and getting good quality sleep are two very important factors in speeding up the treatment of sinus infections. When your body is out of whack, it fights even harder to rebalance, so making sure you stick to a calm, relaxing routine is best – overexerting yourself will only make you feel even more fatigued, congested and blocked up.
4. Nasal decongestant
If your nose is completely blocked, head to a pharmacy to buy a nasal decongestant. Your Doctor or pharmacist can advise you as to which product is right for you. Most nasal decongestants should only be used for a short period of time – 5-7 days. If they are used longer than this, they may cause rebound congestion in the nose.
5. Painkillers and antibiotics
An initial trial phase using painkillers and anti-inflammatories like Paracetamol and Ibuprofen can be helpful in easing pain and discomfort caused by a sinus infection. They can also help to relieve any fever or temperature you may have or be developing.
Most people can safely take these medicines, however it’s advisable to check with your Doctor as there are certain conditions like asthma where taking certain pills should be avoided. Speak with your Doctor as soon as possible to avoid getting further reoccurring infection and to help with choosing the right products and medicines for you.
Does steam inhalation work to get rid of sinusitis?
Many people claim that using steam to unblock sinuses is one of the best home remedies out there. The temporary relief from having a hot bath, for example, can help you feel a lot better for a short period of time.
However, there is little scientific evidence to support the benefits of steam inhalation to help fight a cold, flu, congestion or blocked nasal passages. And, many practitioners and Doctors do not advise this traditional remedy anymore due to more and more reports of people accidentally burning themselves.
When to see a Doctor for sinusitis, sinus infection
If symptoms become severe or do not ease within one week (however as mentioned, it is common to take 2-3 weeks for symptoms to completely resolve) see your Doctor. Watch out for signs like swelling in the face, a bloody nose, severe pain, or if you have recurring bouts of sinusitis, as this may indicate an underlying problem.
With these tips to help you get rid of a sinus infection, we hope you’re ready to face the colder months ahead.
READ NEXT: Tried and tested remedies and products to help ease sinusitis.
References
1. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK459372/
Sinusitis
Related Health Tips
Sinusitis
5.0/5.0
Products that can give relief from acute sinusitis at home
by Dr Emma Crawley
Sinusitis is a condition where there is inflammation of a sinus. This can be painful and give you a congested ‘blocked up’ feeling. Symptoms include nasal discharge of green/yellow mucus, a feeling... Read more
Our community says
100% Worth it
0% Not sure
0% Not worth it
Sinusitis
4.8/5.0
Essential Oils for Steam Inhalation to Unblock Your Nose and Clear Infection
by Emma Farrell
Steam inhalation is a quick, easy and natural way to ease sinus congestion, reduce inflammation and combat infection. Certain essential oils can also be incredibly effective at clearing blockages... Read more
Our community says
66% Worth it
33% Not sure
0% Not worth it
Sinusitis
0.0/5.0
Relieve sinusitis with these few things
by Dr. Lyanh
Sinusitis means inflammation of the sinuses which are the air filled spaces just above nose on the forehead and either side of the nose, top part of the cheek bones. Within this air space is a thin... Read more
Our community says
0% Worth it
0% Not sure
0% Not worth it
Read more...
All Articles
Get Rid of Pesky Colds, Influenza and Infections Fast
By Dr. Derek Lawrence, ND, Naturopathic Doctor
How to Boost Your Immune System Naturally
By Steph Reynolds , Naturopathic Nutritional Therapist
The Foods You Need to Get Rid of a Sinus Infection
By Barbara J. Chin, Dietitian Nutritionist & Personal Trainer
Common Colds and Chinese Medicine Wisdoms
By Philly Gammell, Chinese Medicine & Licensed Acupuncturist
Join our Facebook community for daily health inspo!
Put a zing in your step with your weekly dose of tips
Good Zing
About Good Zing
What is a Good Zing Expert?
As Seen In
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Advertise With Us
Advertising Policy
Acceptable Use Policy
Contact
info@goodzing.com
Follow Us
The content on this website is provided for general information only. It is not intended to amount to advice on which you should rely. You must obtain professional or specialist advice before taking, or refraining from, any action on the basis of the content on this website. In particular this website does not provide health or medical advice nor instructions for medical diagnosis or treatment. None of the content on this website is intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease or health or medical issue. Please read our Terms of Use
© 2019 Good Zing
COOKIES & PRIVACY
We use cookies to maximise your experience on our site. To ensure we are compliant with new E-privacy Regulations, we are required to ask your consent to set the cookies. A copy of our Cookies Policy can be found here
ACCEPT
NO THANKS