Fungal Infection Cream - Know About Ringworm, Jock Itch, Athlete's Foot - Ring-Out
+91- 11 4654 1382
Home
About Us
Skin Care Guide
Social
FAQs
Contact
Skin Care Guide
Everything you need to Know about Fungal Skin Infections: Ringworm, Jock Itch and Athlete’s Foot
October 11, 2017
0 Comments 1,839 views Print
Have you ever cancelled travelling plans or your relative’s wedding because of your skin infections? Have you ever tried to cover your skin infections with clothes? Almost everybody has experienced the trauma of fungal skin infections. Neither they make you look beautiful nor are you happy to have them.
Fungi live in soil, air, water, plants, and even in the human body. They feed off keratin, a protein which is found in your hair, nail and skin. Fungal infections are caused by a class of fungi known as dermatophytes, and occur when fungi invade a particular area of your body.
Who is Prone to Fungal Infections?
Fungal infections can occur to anyone, from adults to children, and even animals. Some people are more likely to develop fungal skin infections than others. Those who are more prone to these infections include:
People with a weakened immune system such as children, old people, diabetic people, etc.
People who sweat a lot as it allows fungi to grow
People who are struggling with their weight
People who come in close contact with infected people
People who are genetically driven towards the infection
People who frequently visit the public places such as locker rooms or showers because fungi thrive in the warm and moist environment.
Types of fungal Infections
Some of the most common types of fungal skin infections include:
Ringworm (Tinea Corporis)
Ringworm is one of the most common fungal infections of the skin. Unlike its nomenclature, it has nothing to do with worms. It is actually caused by a class of fungi that affects your skin. This type of fungal infection is contagious and can be transferred from one person to another in many ways.
Direct skin contact with an infected person, animals such as dogs, cows, cats, etc. are some of the common modes of transmission of the disease. It can also occur by sharing clothes, hair products, or other personal belongings of infected people. The fungus that causes ringworm also infects soil, mud and water. So if you’re playing or working barefoot in your garden, there are chances you may catch the infection.
Symptoms of Ringworm
You can easily recognize the signs and symptoms of ringworm, depending on the infected areas:
Red and itchy skin patches
Oozing patches due to blisters
Nails affected by it become thicker and begin to break
Prevention and Treatment
Ringworm is not a serious infection if treated timely. Here are some tips to avoid it:
Keep your skin clean and dry
Take a proper bath and shampoo your hair regularly
Wear footwear in public spaces
Don’t share clothes and hair products of infected people
Wash your hands with soap after playing with your pet
Keep your feet clean and dry
The effective treatment for ringworm includes applying the best antifungal creams in India which can treat your infection in a few weeks depending upon the severity of the condition. If symptoms are serious and you don’t respond to OTC medications, consult a dermatologist for proper diagnosis and treatment.
Athlete’s Foot (Tinea Pedis)
Athlete’s foot, also called as tinea pedis, is a fungal infection of the feet. It usually affects people who are involved in sports activities because the fungus grows best in warm and moist environment such as shoes, locker rooms, and sports equipment. It is most common in warmer climates and summer months where it can easily grow and multiply. If left untreated, it can also spread to hands, toenails, and other parts of the body.
Symptoms of Athlete’s Foot Infection
Though symptoms of athlete’s foot vary from person to person, some common symptoms include:
Peeling, scaling and cracking of the feet
Redness or blisters in the affected area
The infected skin becomes soft or starts to break down
Itching or burning sensation in the infected area
Thick and discolored toenails
Dry skin on your soles
Prevention and Treatment
Not all itchy feet are the result of athlete’s foot infection, therefore visit your doctor for proper diagnosis. The doctor will diagnose the infection by scraping or scaling your skin off for the evidence of any fungus. You can also take some preventive measures to avoid this type of fungal infection.
Keep your feet area clean and dry
Avoid occlusive footwear and allow your feet to breathe
Wear footwear in public showers or locker rooms
Athlete’s foot can often be treated with a top quality antifungal ointment or a skin fungal infection treatment cream, which are easily available to purchase over-the-counter.
Jock Itch (Tinea Cruris)
Also known as tinea cruris, jock itch is a very common fungal infection of the skin. It is most common in men and young boys. The fungi that cause jock itch like warm and damp environment, and grow in moist areas of the body which are prone to sweating such as the groin, buttocks, and inner thighs. It is mildly contagious and often spreads through direct contact with an infected person or an object that is carrying the fungus.
Symptoms of Jock Itch Infection
Generally, it appears on the body as the circular red rash. Other symptoms include:
Redness in the groin and thighs
Itching, chafing or burning in the groin area
Peeling or cracking skin
Changes in skin color
Prevention and Treatment
Jock itch infection can be easily prevented by following certain tips such as:
Wash the infected area with a good quality soap and apply baby powder around your groin as it can be helpful in controlling excess moisture
Avoid tight-fitting clothing as it may increase your risk of infection. Wear loose-fitting cotton clothes instead
Make sure you keep the area clean and dry after exercising and bathing
Change clothes and underclothing everyday
Treating jock itch generally involves applying good quality topical antifungal ointments and maintaining proper hygiene. Many cases of this infection can be easily improved with the help of an over-the-counter jock itch cream, though severe cases may require prescription medications from doctors.
Fungal skin infections are common throughout the world. These infections are not something you need to be afraid of. Always keep the best cream for fungal infection at home to instantly treat any infection as soon as it occurs.
Comments ( 0 )
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Others Topics
10 Best Ways to Keep Fungal Infections of the Skin Away this Monsoon
Types, Causes and Cures of Skin Fungal Infections
Is the Itch Causing a Glitch in Your Life
6 Myths Associated with Skin Fungal Infections
10 Ways to Save Your Skin and Body from Environmental Toxins
10 Food Items That You Must Eat For A Stronger Immune System
8 Best Ways To Stay Away From Ringworm This Monsoon
Busting 4 Myths about Skin Infections
Why Detox to Cure Fungal Skin Infections?
Peeling Feet Might Be a Sign of These Problems
3 Ways You Can Get Fungal Skin Infections While Working Out
Everything you need to Know about Fungal Skin Infections: Ringworm, Jock Itch and Athlete’s Foot
Preventive Measures for Ringworm Caused in Humans by Canine
How to Stay Protected from Fungal Skin Infections this Diwali?
Causes and Treatments of Itchy Testicles
Our Brands
Home
About Us
Skin Care Guide
Social
FAQs
Contact
1800 1034 400
Copyright © 2017 — Mankind Pharma.
Why is treatment required for skin infections?
Your skin is the largest organ of your body. Its function is to protect your body from infection. Sometimes the skin itself becomes infected. Skin infections are caused by a wide variety of germs, and symptoms can vary from mild to serious. Mild infections may be treatable with over-the-counter medications and home remedies, whereas other infections may require medical attention. Read on to learn more about skin infections and what to do if you have one.