Anemia in Pregnancy – AHealthyMe – Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts
Skip to main content
En Español
Em Portuguese
Menu
Search Library:
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A-Z Listings Featured Tools
The Basics
Health Insurance
Plan Types
Choose Benefits
Choosing a Plan
Plan for Your Budget
Health Care Reform
Managing Your Health
Checkups & Screenings
Specialists
Tips for Good Health
Vaccinations
Conditions & Treatments
Adult Health Library
Allergy and Asthma
Arthritis and Other Rheumatic Diseases
Bone Disorders
Breast Health
Cardiovascular Diseases
Complementary and Alternative Medicine
Dermatology
Diabetes
Digestive Disorders
Endocrinology
Environmental Medicine
Eye Care
Gynecological Health
Hematology and Blood Disorders
Home Health, Hospice, and Elder Care
Infectious Diseases
Kidney and Urinary System Disorders
Liver, Biliary, and Pancreatic Disorders
Men's Health
Mental Health Disorders
Nervous System Disorders
Non-Traumatic Emergencies
Oral Health
Orthopaedic Surgery
Otolaryngology
Pathology
Pediatrics
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Plastic Surgery
Pregnancy and Childbirth
Prostate Health
Radiology
Respiratory Disorders
Skin Cancer
Spine, Shoulder, and Pelvis Disorders
Surgical Care
Travel Medicine
Women's Health
Pediatric Health Library
Adolescent Medicine
Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology
Blood Disorders
Burns
Cardiology
Care of the Terminally Ill
Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Child Having Surgery
Craniofacial Anomalies
Common Childhood Injuries and Poisonings
Dental and Oral Health
Dermatology
Diabetes Endocrinology
Digestive and Liver Disorders
Ear, Nose, and Throat
Eye Care
Genitourinary and Kidney Disorders
Growth and Development
High-Risk Newborn
High-Risk Pregnancy
Infectious Diseases
Medical Genetics
Neurological Disorders
Normal Newborn
Oncology
Orthopaedics
Pregnancy
Respiratory Disorders
Safety and Injury Prevention
Transplantation
Tests and Procedures
Cardiovascular
Gastroenterology
Gynecology
Lab Tests
Neurological
Orthopaedic
Pulmonary
Urology
Prevention Guidelines
Children Ages 0-2
Children Ages 2-18
Men Ages 18-39
Men Ages 40-49
Men Ages 50-64
Men Ages 65+
Women Ages 18-39
Women Ages 40-49
Women Ages 50-64
Women Ages 65+
Health Centers
Asthma
Understanding Asthma
Pulmonary Tests & Procedures
Controlling Asthma Triggers
Managing Your Asthma
Asthma and Other Conditions
For Your Family
Behavioral Health
During Life's Journey
Common Conditions
Support and Stability
Cancer
About Cancer
Cancer and Genetics
Cancer Test and Procedures
Cancer Diagnosis
Cancer and Nutrition
Cancer Treatment
Cancer Treatment Side Effects
Living With Cancer
Specific Cancers
Children and Cancer
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
What is COPD?
Pulmonary Tests & Procedures
Managing Your COPD
Preventing COPD
Diabetes
Understanding Diabetes
Types of Diabetes
Complications of Diabetes
Managing Diabetes
Diabetes and Your Family
Heart Disease
Understanding Heart Disease
Cardiac Tests & Procedures
Heart Conditions and Diseases
Women and Heart Disease
Diabetes and Heart Disease
Congenital Heart Disease
Cardiac Rehabilitation
Managing Heart Disease
Preventing Heart Disease
Neuroscience
About the Brain and Nervous System
Neurological Tests and Procedures
Neurological Conditions and Diseases
Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders
Headaches
Stroke and Cerebrovascular Diseases
Understanding Rehabilitation
Children & Neurological Conditions
Obesity and Bariatric Surgery
Understanding Obesity
Obesity and Health Problems
Treating Obesity
Bariatric Surgery
Lifestyle Changes
Childhood and Obesity
Orthopedics
Basic Anatomy
Orthopedic Tests and Procedures
Orthopedic Conditions and Disorders
Arthritis and Rheumatic Disorders
Osteoporosis
Fractures
Sports Injuries
Preventing Injuries at Work
Orthopedic Conditions and Children
Pregnancy & Newborns
Preparing for Pregnancy
Your Changing Body
Your First Trimester
Your Second Trimester
Your Third Trimester
Pregnancy Tests and Procedures
Healthy Pregnancy Lifestyles
Pregnancy Complications
Labor, Birth, and Postpartum
Your Newborn Baby
When Baby Needs Special Care
Feeding Your Baby
Drugs, Herbs & Supplements
Drug Interaction Checker
Drug Search
Drug Search by Physical Description
Herbs, Vitamins & Supplements
Amino Acids
Herbs
Minerals
Vitamins
Other
All
Nutrition & General Wellness
Alternative Medicine
Healthy Recipes
By Dietary Considerations
By Food Category
Nutrition Facts
Wellness Library
At Work
Behavior
Dental
Diseases & Conditions
Fitness
Injuries & Emergencies
Nutrition
Parenting
Prevention
Safety
Today's Medicine
Weight Control
Your Body
Your Family
Children's Health
The Healthy Child
Children and Healthcare
Emotions and Behavior
Age-Specific Concerns
Parenting
Men's Health
In Good Health
Health Issues
Sexual Health & Reproduction
Sports Injuries
Older Adults
Living Better, Living Longer
Eating Well, Staying Fit
Prevention, Self-Care, and Safety
Using Medications
Health Concerns: Head to Toe
Long-Term Planning
For the Caregiver
Home Health and Hospice Care
Women's Health
A Woman's Journey
In Good Health
Women's Health Issues
News Center
Focus on Health
Health News
Newsletters
Cancer Awareness
Chronic Condition News
For Your Child
Heart Care
Men's Health
Women's Health
Lifestyle Tips
Back and Neck Care
Back and Neck Basics
Causes of Back and Neck Pain
Keeping Your Back Healthy
Dealing With Back Pain
Preventing and Treating Neck Pain
Back Pain and Pregnancy
Blood Pressure
Blood Pressure Basics
Eating Healthier
Getting Exercise
Losing Weight
Managing Stress
Quitting Smoking, Limiting Alcohol
Taking Medication
Cholesterol
Understanding Cholesterol
Eating Healthy
Managing Weight
Getting Exercise
Breaking Bad Habits
Taking Medication
Fitness
Why Fitness Matters
Get Started
Get Moving
Stay Motivated
Make Time for Fitness
Improve Your Health
Children & Teens
Women
Older Adults
Nutrition
Nutrition Basics
Healthy Practices
Nutrition and Health Conditions
Children and Teens
Pregnant Women
Smoking Cessation
Facing Up to Smoking
Planning Your Quit Strategy
Taking the Big Step
Staying Smoke-Free
Teens and Smoking
Smoking During Pregnancy
Stress Management
Understanding Stress
Keys to Managing Stress
Stress on the Job
Stress and Family
Weight Management
Call to Action
About Weight Loss
Nutrition
Exercise
Behavior
Related Health Issues
Children and Teens
Tools & Multimedia
Calculators
Podcasts
Quizzes
Risk Assessments
Video Library
Home Health Centers Pregnancy & Newborns Pregnancy Complications
Pregnancy
Anemia in Pregnancy
What is anemia?
Anemia is when your blood has too few red blood cells. Having too few red blood cells makes it harder for your blood to carry oxygen or iron. This can affect how cells work in nerves and muscles. During pregnancy, your baby also needs your blood.
Who is at risk for anemia during pregnancy?
Women are more likely to get anemia during pregnancy if they:
Are strict vegetarians or vegans. They are at greater risk of having a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Have celiac disease or Crohn's disease, or have had weight loss surgery where the stomach or part of the stomach has been removed
Women are more likely to get iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy if they:
Have 2 pregnancies close together
Are pregnant with twins or more
Have vomiting often because of morning sickness
Are not getting enough iron from their diet and prenatal vitamins
Had heavy periods before pregnancy
What causes anemia during pregnancy?
You can get several kinds of anemia during pregnancy. The cause varies based on the type.
Anemia of pregnancy. During pregnancy, the volume of blood increases. This means more iron and vitamins are needed to make more red blood cells. If you don't have enough iron, it can cause anemia. It's not considered abnormal unless your red blood cell count falls too low.
Iron-deficiency anemia. During pregnancy, your baby uses your red blood cells for growth and development, especially in the last 3 months of pregnancy. If you have extra red blood cells stored in your bone marrow before you get pregnant, your body can use those stores during pregnancy. Women who don't have enough iron stores can get iron-deficiency anemia. This is the most common type of anemia in pregnancy. Good nutrition before getting pregnant is important to help build up these stores.
Vitamin B12 deficiency. Vitamin B12 is important in making red blood cells and protein. Eating food that comes from animals, such as milk, eggs, meats, and poultry, can prevent vitamin B12 deficiency. Women who don't eat any foods that come from animals (vegans) are most likely to get vitamin B12 deficiency. Strict vegans often need to get vitamin B12 shots during pregnancy.
Folate deficiency. Folate (folic acid) is a B vitamin that works with iron to help with cell growth. If you don't get enough folate during pregnancy, you could get iron deficiency. Folic acid helps cut the risk of having a baby with certain birth defects of the brain and spinal cord if it's taken before getting pregnant and in early pregnancy.
What are the symptoms of anemia during pregnancy?
You may not have clear symptoms of anemia during pregnancy unless your cell counts are very low. Symptoms may include:
Pale skin, lips, nails, palms of hands, or underside of the eyelids
Feeling tired
Sensation of spinning (vertigo) or dizziness
Labored breathing
Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)
Trouble concentrating
The symptoms of anemia can be like other health conditions. Always see your healthcare provider for a diagnosis.
How is anemia during pregnancy diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider will check for anemia during your prenatal exams. It's usually found during a routine blood test. Other ways to check for anemia may include other blood tests such as:
Hemoglobin. This is the part of blood that carries oxygen from the lungs to tissues in the body.
Hematocrit. This measures the portion of red blood cells found in a certain amount of blood.
How is anemia during pregnancy treated?
Treatment will depend on your symptoms, age, and general health. It will also depend on how severe the condition is.
Treatment for iron deficiency anemia includes taking iron supplements. Some forms are time-released. Others must be taken several times each day. Taking iron with a citrus juice, such as orange, can help your body absorb it better. . Taking antacids may make it harder for your body absorb iron. Iron supplements may cause nausea and cause stools to become dark greenish or black in color. They may also cause constipation.
What are possible complications of anemia during pregnancy?
If you have anemia during pregnancy, your baby may not grow to a healthy weight, may arrive early (preterm birth), or have a low birth weight. Also being very tired may keep you from recovering as quickly after birth.
Can anemia during pregnancy be prevented?
Good pre-pregnancy nutrition not only helps prevent anemia, but also helps build other nutritional stores in your body. Eating a healthy, balanced diet before and during pregnancy helps keep up your levels of iron and other important nutrients needed for your growing baby.
Good food sources of iron include:
Meats. Beef, pork, lamb, liver, and other organ meats.
Poultry. Chicken, duck, turkey, and liver, especially dark meat.
Fish. Shellfish, including (fully-cooked) clams, mussels, and oysters are good. So are sardines and anchovies. The FDA recommends that pregnant women eat 8 to 12 ounces per week of fish that are lower in mercury. These include salmon, shrimp, pollock, cod, tilapia, tuna (light canned), and catfish. Don't eat fish with high levels of mercury, such as tilefish from the Gulf of Mexico, shark, swordfish, and king mackerel. Limit white (albacore) tuna to only 6 ounces per week.
Leafy greens of the cabbage family. These include broccoli, kale, turnip greens, and collards.
Legumes. Lima beans and green peas; dry beans and peas, such as pinto beans, black-eyed peas, and canned baked beans.
Yeast-leavened whole-wheat bread and rolls
Iron-enriched white bread, pasta, rice, and cereals
Experts recommend all women of childbearing age and all women who are pregnant take vitamin supplements with at least 400 micrograms of folic acid. Folate is the form of folic acid found in food. Good sources are:
Leafy, dark green vegetables
Dried beans and peas
Citrus fruits and juices and most berries
Fortified breakfast cereals
Enriched grain products
Key points about anemia in pregnancy
Anemia is a condition of too few red blood cells.
Four kinds of anemia can happen during pregnancy: anemia of pregnancy, iron deficiency anemia, vitamin B12 deficiency, and folate deficiency.
Anemia may cause your baby to not grow to a healthy weight. Your baby may also arrive early (preterm birth) or have a low birth weight.
Anemia is usually found during a routine blood test for hemoglobin or hematocrit levels.
Treatment depends on the type of anemia and how bad it is.
Good nutrition is the best way to prevent anemia during pregnancy.
Next steps
Tips to help you get the most from a visit to your healthcare provider:
Know the reason for your visit and what you want to happen.
Before your visit, write down questions you want answered.
Bring someone with you to help you ask questions and remember what your provider tells you.
At the visit, write down the name of a new diagnosis, and any new medicines, treatments, or tests. Also write down any new instructions your provider gives you.
Know why a new medicine or treatment is prescribed, and how it will help you. Also know what the side effects are.
Ask if your condition can be treated in other ways.
Know why a test or procedure is recommended and what the results could mean.
Know what to expect if you do not take the medicine or have the test or procedure.
If you have a follow-up appointment, write down the date, time, and purpose for that visit.
Know how you can contact your provider if you have questions.
Online Medical Reviewer: Donna Freeborn PhD CNM FNP
Online Medical Reviewer: Heather Trevino
Online Medical Reviewer: Irina Burd MD PhD
Date Last Reviewed: 7/1/2016
© 2000-2019 The StayWell Company, LLC. 800 Township Line Road, Yardley, PA 19067. All rights reserved. This information is not intended as a substitute for professional medical care. Always follow your healthcare professional's instructions.
Featured Tools
For Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts members
Find a Doctor & Estimate Costs
Healthy Times Newsletter
Personal Health Assessment
Programs
Savings & Discounts
Resources
Follow Us
Are you interested in becoming a member? Visit GetBlueMA or call 1-800-422-3545.
Related Items
Diseases and Conditions
Anemia Overview
Anemias
View All 4
Pediatric Diseases and Conditions
Anemia in Children
Chemotherapy for Children: Side Effects
View All 4
Tests and Procedures
Bilirubin (Amniotic Fluid)
Blood Smear
View All 11
News
An App, Your Fingernail -- and Anemia Screening Is Done
Blood Donation by Teen Girls May Raise Anemia Risk
View All 4
Drug Reference
Darbepoetin Alfa injection
Epoetin Alfa injection
View All 3
Herbs, Vitamins & Supplements
Copper
Histidine
Interactive Tools
Anemia Quiz
How Much Do You Know About Anemia?
Videos
Anemia
MyBlue
Find a Doctor & Estimate Costs
Health & Wellness
Review Benefits
Review Claims
Recursos en Español
Medicare
Attend a Seminar
Medicare Plans
Request a Call
Plan Education
National Health Care Reform
Find a Health Plan
BlueLinks for Employers
Manage Your Account
Plans & Products
Forms & Documents
Tools & Support for Educating Employees
Broker Central
Provider Central
Medical Policy
Office Resources
Provider News
About Us
Annual Report
Careers
Contact Us
Corporate Citizenship
Diversity Leadership
News
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts is an Independent Licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
® Registered Marks of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
®´ ®´´ Registered Marks are the property of their respective owners.
© Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc.
101 Huntington Avenue, Suite 1300, Boston, MA 02199-7611 | 1-800-262-BLUE (2583)
About Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts Terms of Use, Privacy & Security Accessibility Nondiscrimination and Translation Resources
Powered by
Copyright © The StayWell Company, LLC. except where otherwise noted.
Staywell®´´, an independent company, offers health and wellness engagement tools and information on behalf of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts.
About StayWell
Massachusetts Health Insurance at Affordable Rates
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts is a leading provider of quality health insurance for residents of Massachusetts. Our main goal is to make health care cost-effective by offering health insurance solutions for individuals, families, and large and small businesses at affordable rates.
Our Vision — Making Quality Health Care Affordable
Our Promise — To Always Put Our Members First
To learn more about our Massachusetts health plans, please visit our Plans & Products page, where you can compare Massachusetts health insurance plans, buy health plans online, and get Mass health insurance quotes.
Other Coverage & Massachusetts Medical Insurance Plans
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts also offers insurance, pharmacy coverage, and Medicare Plans for seniors; life and disability insurance through Indigo Insurance Services (a wholly owned subsidiary); and insurance for individuals aged 18-26 years. Learn more about our other insurance plans and Medicare plans, or contact a sales representative today.