EU approves Sanofi and Regeneron’s dupilumab in eczema | PharmaLive
Ad Header
PharmaLive
Slogan
The Pulse of the Pharmaceutical Industry
Marketing & Advertising
R&D
Therapeutics
Resources
Manny Awards
Events
Issue Archives
Login
Advertise
PharmaLive > FDA/Regulatory > Approvals > EU approves Sanofi and Regeneron’s dupilumab in eczema
EU approves Sanofi and Regeneron’s dupilumab in eczema
Written by: Reuters Health | no-reply@reuters.com | Dated: Thursday, September 28th, 2017
PARIS (Reuters) – The European Commission approved Regeneron Pharmaceuticals’ and Sanofi’s key biologic treatment dupilumab for moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, the two companies said on Thursday.
The move comes after the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulator had also approved the injectable antibody drug in March. The product is sold as Dupixent.
Atopic dermatitis is a chronic type of skin inflammation also known as eczema, which in severe cases causes constant, and often unbearable, itching.
A human monoclonal antibody, Dupixent is designed to specifically inhibit two key proteins which are believed to be major drivers of the disease.
Sanofi plans to submit an application to the FDA for a use of dupilumab in asthma by the end of the year and hinted recently at a possible use of the drug in nasal polyps.
Analysts on average expect Dupixent to reach annual sales of 4.7 billion euros ($5.53 billion) by 2023, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Shares of Regeneron and Sanofi slid earlier this month after late-stage trial data for dupilumab in asthma fell short of investor expectations. Analysts said the data appeared less impressive than the drug’s mid-stage data.
Investors had also expressed disappointment with the sales take-up of Dupixent when Sanofi published its second quarter-results in July, although but Sanofi expressed confidence that the drug would sell well.
Reporting by Matthias Blamont; Editing by Sudip Kar-Gupta
Reuters source:
http://www.reuters.com/article/us-sanofi-regeneron/eu-approves-sanofi-and-regenerons-dupilumab-in-eczema-idUSKCN1C313B
Ad Right Top
Top Articles
2016 Annual Report: Top 10 Pipelines
2017 Annual Report: Top 10 Pipelines
2015 Annual Report: Top 10 Pipelines
Celgene Snaps Up Merck & Co.’s Giant Complex in New Jersey
Most Recent
Most Recent
Lilly’s Taltz Shows Promise in Spondyloarthritis Trial
Merck’s Keytruda wins FDA approval for RCC
2019 Annual Report: Healthcare Communications Agencies Overview – Another Year Of Changes, Growth
FDA approves Teva’s generic nasal spray to treat opioid overdose
Most Commented
Sorry. No data so far.
MedAdNews
Extensive pharmaceutical business and marketing intelligence. For back issues, please contact MDAD@kmpsgroup.com.
April 2019 Focus: Healthcare agency & network profiles, industry overview & awards, and more!
Subscribe
Ad Right Bottom
Ad Footer
Home
About
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Business
Marketing & Advertising
R&D
Therapeutics
Resources
Manny Awards
Events
Advertise with Med Ad News and PharmaLive
Copyright
© 2017 PharmaLive and Outcomes LLC