Ice burn: Symptoms, scars, and first aid
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Everything you need to know about ice burns
Last reviewed	 Fri 27 July 2018	 Last reviewed	Fri 27 Jul 2018
By Bethany Cadman
Reviewed by Judith Marcin, MD
Table of contents
Symptoms
Causes and risk factors
Prevention
Scarring
Ice burn vs. frostbite
First aid and treatment
When to see a doctor
Both heat and cold can burn a person's skin. If exposure to severe cold causes skin damage, it is called an ice burn or frostbite.
Spending time in freezing temperatures or coming into contact with something extremely cold, such as ice cubes or an ice pack, can damage the skin tissue and cause an ice burn.
In this article, learn about the symptoms and causes of ice burns, as well as how to treat them and when to see a doctor.
Symptoms
Freezing temperatures can damage the skin tissue.
The symptoms of an ice burn can include:
red, white, dark, or gray skin
pain
blisters
numbness
tingling
itchiness
hard or waxy skin
When a person experiences an ice burn, several things happen to the tissue:
the water in the skin cells begins to freeze
the frozen water forms ice crystals, which damage the skin cells
the blood vessels constrict, reducing blood flow and delivery of oxygen to the area
blood clots may form, further restricting blood flow and oxygen
bleeding can occur if the cold temperature affects blood-clotting proteins
What to know about frostbite
Learn more about frostbite, including the causes and risk factors.
Read now
Causes and risk factors
Exposure to extreme cold causes the blood vessels to narrow, diverting blood to the vital organs to protect them.
A reduced volume of blood will reach the parts of the body furthest from the central organs, which is why the hands, feet, fingers, and toes are particularly prone to injuries from the cold.
Causes of ice burns include:
exposure to freezing temperatures for extended periods
exposure to wind and high altitudes
direct contact with a freezing object, such as an ice pack, for a prolonged period
Other factors that can increase a person's likelihood of getting an ice burn include:
homelessness
participating in winter sports
smoking
taking medications that restrict blood flow, such as beta-blockers
conditions that impair circulation, such as diabetes or peripheral vascular disease
peripheral neuropathy or other conditions that reduce a person's ability to detect injuries
Raynaud's phenomenon
Younger children and older people have a higher risk of cold injury, as they are unable to regulate their body temperature as efficiently and tend to lose heat more quickly.
People under the influence of alcohol or drugs may not be as alert to the cold and may not immediately notice the discomfort of cold exposure that can lead to ice burns.
Prevention
To prevent ice burns, people should wear appropriate clothing for cold temperatures or high-velocity winds.
Also, when using an ice pack, people should ensure that it does not directly touch the skin. Placing a cloth or towel in between the ice pack and the skin can help to prevent ice burns.
Scarring
An ice burn may cause scarring, depending on which layers of the skin it affects.
Ice burns can cause scarring. The likelihood of scarring depends on many factors, including the area of the ice burn and how many layers of tissue are affected.
The skin consists of several layers. These include an outer layer, known as the epidermis, and a lower layer, called the dermis. Beneath these layers are tissues that include muscles, tendons, and other connective tissue.
If a burn only penetrates the epidermis, it may not cause significant scarring. However, injuries that affect the dermis or the tissues beneath it are more complex wounds that can leave scars.
Ice burn vs. frostbite
There is little difference between ice burn and frostbite. The term ice burn refers to burns that result from contact with ice or ice packs.
Frostbite occurs when the exposure of parts of the body to extremely cold temperatures freezes the skin and the tissue beneath it.
Frostbite that penetrates the deeper layers of the skin and damages tissue and bone can cause permanent damage.
First aid and treatment
Upon getting an ice burn, a person should immediately be taking the following actions:
getting out of the cold or removing the item causing the injury
removing wet clothing
avoiding touching or rubbing the area to prevent further damage
removing debris from any injured skin
warming the skin by soaking it in 99–102°F (37–39°C) water
applying blankets or warm compresses
repeating the soaking process every 20 minutes if necessary
Once the area is warm again, a person should try:
Gauze can protect the skin from dirt and germs.
using gauze to protect the skin from dirt and germs
increasing fluid intake for hydration
taking an over-the-counter (OTC) pain reliever if necessary
applying a soothing ointment, such as aloe vera, to unbroken skin
seeking medical advice regarding the necessity of a tetanus shot
It is vital to warm up the skin gradually rather than using very hot water or air, as extreme heat could make the injury worse.
When to see a doctor
People can usually treat superficial ice burns at home using first aid. These burns often heal without the need for further medical attention.
If a person experiences a more severe ice burn, they should see a doctor and may require hospital treatment.
The signs and symptoms of a severe ice burn include:
skin turning and remaining white, dark, or gray
skin feeling numb
skin that feels cold or hard after warming
the affected body part being less able to function
blood-filled blisters
injury-related ice burn
These signs may indicate damage to the tissue underneath the skin. Tissue damage may require more intensive medical or surgical treatment.
Any signs of infection will also require medical treatment. A person should see a doctor if they experience the following symptoms:
changes to the color of the burn
pus or green discharge leaking from the burn site
fever
increased pain
the affected body part being less able to perform its function
If the affected area remains white, dark, or gray rather than pink or red and does not start tingling or burning as it warms up, this could signify more extensive damage that requires medical attention.
Anyone concerned about an ice burn should speak to a doctor for a proper evaluation.
Related coverage
Is it bad to eat ice? Some people like to chew on ice cubes, but it can cause some complications, including dental problems. Compulsive ice eating is a psychological issue, but it is also a sign of some medical conditions, such as iron deficiency anemia. A doctor can determine the reason for ice cravings and provide appropriate treatment. Read now
Where do blisters come from? A blister is a pocket of fluid that forms between the upper layers of skin. The most common causes are crushed or pinched skin, chemical exposure, burns, and friction, but blisters are also a feature of many medical conditions. Here, learn about the types of blisters, why they form, and how to treat and prevent them. Read now
How to get rid of burn scars Treating burn scars depends on the severity of the burn and how recently it occurred. The article examines the various types of burn scars, how to remove or reduce existing burn scars, and how to prevent new scars developing. Also, learn about how to treat a burn in the first instance and possible complications. Read now
Chemical burns: Symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment Chemical burns can happen to anyone and anywhere, and occur when a person is affected by chemicals or their fumes. They frequently occur due to car batteries, paint thinner, and bleach. This article looks at the common causes as well as who is at risk and when a person should seek medical care for a chemical burn. Read now
How to treat a burn on the roof of the mouth at home Burning the roof of the mouth is common. These burns are easy to treat at home and rarely cause for concern. Natural remedies can help, including yogurt, milk, aloe vera gel, and honey. Here, learn about seven natural home remedies for burns on the roof of the mouth. We also describe when to see a doctor. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Blood / Hematology Neurology / Neuroscience Sports Medicine / Fitness
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Fri 27 July 2018.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Burns [Fact Sheet]. (2018, March 6). Retrieved from http://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/burns
Frostbite. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://sja.org.uk/sja/first-aid-advice/hot-and-cold-conditions/frostbite.aspx
Harding, M. (2016, December 28). Frostbite. Retrieved from https://patient.info/health/frostbite-leaflet
Nizamoglu, M., Tan, A., Vickers, T., Segaren, N., Barnes, D., & Dziewulski, P. (2016, November 11). Cold burn injuries in the UK: The 11-year experience of a tertiary burns centre. Burns & Trauma, 4, 36. Retrieved from https://burnstrauma.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s41038-016-0060-x
Zafren, K., & Crawford Mechem, C. (2018, February 15). Frostbite. Retrieved from https://www.uptodate.com/contents/frostbite
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Cadman, Bethany. "Everything you need to know about ice burns." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 27 Jul. 2018. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322606.php>
APA
Cadman, B. (2018, July 27). "Everything you need to know about ice burns." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322606.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Popular in: Dermatology
Hair growth: 6 home remedies
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What causes tongue bumps?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
What causes an underarm rash?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322606.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);