Burns and scalds | nidirect
Skip to content
Google Tag Manager
Menu
Main menu
Home
News
Contacts
Help
Feedback
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
RSS
You are here
Home ›
Health and wellbeing ›
Illnesses and conditions ›
A to Z
Burns and scalds
Burns and scalds are damage to the skin caused by heat. A burn is caused by dry heat, for example, by an iron or fire. A scald is caused by something wet, such as hot water or steam. Burns may also be caused by chemicals and electricity.
Signs and symptoms
Burns /scalds can be very painful and may cause:
red or peeling skin
blisters
swelling
white or charred skin
The amount of pain you feel isn't always related to how serious the burn is. A serious burn may be relatively painless.
Treating burns and scalds
To treat a burn or a scald caused by heat, follow the first aid advice below:
immediately get the person away from the heat source to stop the burning
cool the burn with cool or lukewarm running water for 30 minutes – don't use ice, iced water, or any creams or greasy substances such as butter
remove any clothing or jewellery that's near the burnt area of skin, including babies' nappies - but don't move anything that's stuck to the skin
make sure the person keeps warm – by using a blanket, for example, but take care not to rub it against the burnt area
cover the burn by placing a layer of cling film over it – a clean plastic bag could also be used for burns on your hand (do not use wet dressings or creams)
use painkillers such as paracetamol or ibuprofen to treat any pain
if the face or eyes are burnt, sit up as much as possible, rather than lying down - this helps to reduce swelling
For burns caused by heat, see section below on when to get medical attention.
For electrical burns:
if you think someone has had an electrical shock, you should approach them with care
if the person has been injured by a low-voltage source (for example 220–240 volts, domestic electricity supply) safely switch off the power supply first, then it is safe to touch the person
if you can’t switch off the low-voltage source, and the electricity appears to be causing harm, it may be possible to remove the person from the electrical source using a non-conductive material (such as a wooden stick or wooden chair) - this can cause a risk to you if you are trying to help them, and should be a last resort
do not ever approach a person connected to a high-voltage source (1000 volts or more)
Dial 999 for immediate medical help - if it is a high voltage source, make sure that you say this.
For chemical burns:
wear protective gloves
be careful not to contaminate and injure yourself with the chemical, and wear protective clothing if necessary
remove any affected clothing
brush the chemical off the skin if it is in a dry form
rinse the burn with cool running water for an hour to wash out the chemical
if possible, determine the cause of the injury
do not attempt to neutralize chemicals (to try to stop them from having an effect) as additional heat will be generated, that may increase damage to the skin
Call 999 for immediate medical help.
When to get medical attention
Depending on how serious a burn is, it may be possible to treat it at home. For minor burns, keep the burn clean and don't burst any blisters that form.
More serious burns need medical attention. You should go to an emergency department for:
all chemical and electrical burns
large or deep burns – any burn bigger than your hand
burns that cause white or charred skin – any size
burns that have caused blisters on the face, hands, arms, feet, legs or genitals
The size and depth of the burn will be assessed. The affected area will be cleaned before a dressing is applied. In severe cases, skin graft surgery may be recommended.
If someone has breathed in smoke or fumes, they should also get medical attention. Some symptoms may be delayed and can include:
coughing
a sore throat
difficulty breathing
facial burns
People at greater risk from the effects of burns should also get medical attention after a burn or scald. These include:
children under 10 years of age
adults over 49 years of age
people with medical problems (for example cardiac, respiratory, or liver disease, or diabetes)
people with problems with their immune system
pregnant women
When to seek further medical advice
Whether your burn required medical attention or not, you should seek medical advice if:
the wound becomes painful or smelly
you develop a high temperature of 38C (100.4F) or higher
the dressing becomes soaked with fluid leaking from the wound
the wound hasn't healed after two weeks
Recovering from burns and scalds
How long it takes to recover from a burn or scald depends on how serious it is and how it's treated.
If the wound becomes infected, you should get further medical attention.
Keeping children safe from burns and scalds
Below are some things you can do to help reduce the risk of your child having a serious accident at home. These include:
keeping your children away from hazardous heat sources in the kitchen, for example, warm oven fronts, and ensuring pot handles cannot be reached
testing the temperature of bath water using your elbow before you put your baby or toddler in the bath
keeping matches, lighters and lit candles out of young children's sight and reach
keeping hot drinks well away from young children
Read more about keeping children safe from burns and scalds
Further advice
If you need advice about a burn or scald, you can:
call or see your GP
call GP out of hours or go to a minor injuries unit (MIU)
Find out more about burns and scalds on the NHS website
More useful links
How to use your health services
Minor injuries units
Keeping children safe from burns and scalds
Chemical safety in the home
Keeping kids safe – ROSPA website
The information on this page has been adapted from original content from the NHS website.
For further information see terms and conditions.
This page was reviewed February 2018
This page is due for review March 2019
Health conditions A to Z
Search by health condition or symptoms
Search health conditions
Or find conditions beginning with …
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Share this page
Feedback
Would you like to send a comment about this page? *
Would you like to send a comment about this page?
Your comments are anonymous and can’t be responded to - if you would like a reply, use the feedback form.
Comments (optional)
Your comments
Please enter your comments about this page below *
Plain text only, 750 characters maximum. Don't include personal or financial information.
Related sites
gov.uk
nibusinessinfo.co.uk
Crown copyright
Sitemap
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Cookies
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
RSS