Lost Temple
Home
Blogs
MHC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD
Showing Tag: " tretinoin" (Show all posts)
Harmful additives of shampoo have bad influences on hair health
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, July 9, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Blacking hair shampoo mainly relies on p-phenylenediamine, m-phenylenediamine, lead acetate and other hair colorings. The vinegar-soaked lead combcan make hair black. Lead acetate has highest contents in many blacking hair shampoo. The colorings do great harm, on human body. They may cause dermatitis, carcinogenic, teratogenic and eczema. Adding it directly into hair shampoo will do great harm to the body. The officials have banned to use the addictives. And the formal cosmetic raw material s...
Continue reading ...
Glutathione and aging
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, July 6, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Free radical is an important factor to cause damages of cell, tissue and organ and lead to aging. Glutathione is most important antioxidant for free radical scavenging in human body, which can delay the aging process. Glutathione is the master antioxidant. If people want to have health and longevity, they must find ways to increase glutathione levels. The high concentration of glutathione indicates good health and longer lives. The low glutathione concentration often prompts the disease and e...
Continue reading ...
The therapeutic effect of tretinoin
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, July 5, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Tretinoin is a group of compounds which has similar chemical structures with vitamin A. It is divided into two kind of natural and synthetic. Medicinal tretinoin is chemically synthesized. Since the tretinoin is put into markets, a large number of clinical data shows that it has a very good efficacy in many skin diseases and psoriasis. The cosmetic raw material suppliers have a lot of research works in psoriasis treatment and its functional mechanism.
By using a variety of retinoic acid in e...
Continue reading ...
Biotin can help you to remove eye wrinkles
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, June 28, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Fishtail lines refer to the wrinkles between eyes and temples on people. Generally it forms due to the dry wrinkles and aggravation of expression lines. But the genetic factor will also have a great influence on the formation of wrinkles. The formation of fishtail lines is due to neuroendocrine dysfunction, decreasing of protein synthesis rate, the decline or loss of fiber cell activity of dermal layer, reduction and fracture of collagen fibers. It leads to deterioration of skin elasticity an...
Continue reading ...
Explanations for frequently asked questions of 5% minoxidil
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, June 19, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
How long will minoxild play its effect? Generally, after about 2-3 months, fluffs emerge on site of hair loss. In four months, people will achieve significant results. It is best to use it in more than eight months to achieve the purpose of consolidating. Hair growth is relatively slow and it requires a process, including growth phase, catagen and telogen. In a few years later, the hair enters into stage of catagen and gradually falls off. It will grow new hair in another 3 to 4 months teloge...
Continue reading ...
Different efficacy of natural astaxanthin and synthetic astaxanthin
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, June 18, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Natural astaxanthin has three kinds of isomers: L, D and racemic. And chemically synthesized astaxanthin is mixtures of 3 kinds of isomers. The left and right structure account for 25% respectively. The racemic structure accounts for 50%. And they can not be translated into native structures in the body. The study shows that only the L-structure astaxanthin has antioxidant activity. So the synthetic astaxanthin has only a small amount of antioxidant activity. Astaxanthins of algae and adonis ...
Continue reading ...
Effect of tretinoin on fibroblasts
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, June 15, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Studies have shown that hypertrophic scars and keloids are caused by excessive collagen synthesis and deposition from fibroblasts. Therefore, in recent years, many researchers use the fibroblast cell culture techniques to clarify the scar formation and regulation mechanism of scar formation. They have a study in fibroblast proliferation, collagen synthesis, cell activity and its influencing factors in controlled conditions. Tretinoin is a vitamin A-related drug with a wide range of pharmacolo...
Continue reading ...
Magic whitening effect of glutathione
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, June 13, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Glutathione is an amino acid. They can find a living organism in every cell. As a most basic and major antioxidant in human body, they help us to display a beautiful style from a variety of complex or ever-changing disease and poor conditions. But with age increasing, glutathione level in human body becomes dried up due to exposure to air pollution, stress, drugs, smoking and food chemicals. It will hurt people's cellular systems. So people need to know where to buy glutathione and use it to ...
Continue reading ...
Minoxidil is effective in treatment of male androgenetic alopecia
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, June 8, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Minoxidil is a colorless or slightly yellow clear liquid. It is suitable for patients with male androgenetic alopecia, female androgenetic alopecia and alopecia areata. The performance of female androgenetic alopecia is not so typical than that of men. The main performance is mainly about the gradually thinning hairs. The hair sparse usually occurs in the front head and top of the head. It is generally not bald. Minoxidil is a peripheral vasodilator. Local long-term use of it can stimulate ha...
Continue reading ...
Effect and safety of minoxidil
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, June 6, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Can minoxidil promote hair growth? The results show that it is entirely possible. Using minoxidil for 12 months, all 102 participants achieve significant results in hair growth. 84% of the patients have moderate or dense hair growth. Even taking into account all subjects, its response rate is over 68%. Is the hair growth meaningful or just a surface phenomenon? The further study shows that it is meaningful for 84% of cases to do continuous tests. But some cases give up the trial because. They...
Continue reading ...
Treatment of male pattern baldness is a protracted war
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, June 4, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Treatment of male hair loss requires patience. The World Health Organization defines ‘the shining hair without dandruff’ as an important concept in the men’s health. The eastern nations regard thickness black hair as a charming future. In people’s opinion, effect hair is a symbol of sprint and strength. If people find hair loss condition, they should contact with the doctor in time. The most effective drug for hair loss is minoxidil. Patients can buy minoxidil from hospitals to cure t...
Continue reading ...
A comprehensive review of treatments for hair loss
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, May 31, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Because of high stress of life, the hair loss situation increases. Hair loss becomes an important problem for modern people. Hair loss is a common skin disease. Genes are usually associated with an increase in male hormones. Some of the psychological stress caused by psychological pressure and insomnia. Hair loss patients often complain about hair loss. It is very uncomfortable and makes them loss the confidence of life. What is drug for the treatment of hair loss?
Content of dihydrotestoste...
Continue reading ...
Astaxanthin: an expert on cleaning free radicals
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, May 21, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
When oxygen has reacts with the complex compounds of metabolism in several molecules, the free radicals generate in the human body. Free radicals are highly unstable molecules that can interact with something at any time. When they react, the oxidation occurs. Once the oxidation occurs, the chain reaction begins and more free radicals are formed. If free radicals are generated freely, our bodies will have oxidation just like apple. Our body will have oxidation and be destroyed by free radical...
Continue reading ...
Biotin is popular in erasing wrinkles
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, May 18, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Most women have problems about wrinkles. Why is the biotin popular in anti-wrinkle injections among many people of all ages? Its good effect on wrinkles becomes an important factor. Biotin injection is a simple process. It chooses a variety of different beams in the injection area. With a micro-syringe, the right amount of BOTOX is injected into each muscle. Then the muscle activity is weakened. After 24 hours, the muscle stops its movement and the wrinkles disappear. After four months, it ca...
Continue reading ...
Modern medicine can be used in curing hair loss
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, May 17, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Hair loss is a phenomenon of losing hair. Normal shedding hair is the hair in the catagen and new entrants with a dynamic equilibrium. It can keep a normal number of hairs. It is called as the normal physiological alopecia. Pathological alopecia means the abnormal or excessive hair loss in many reasons.
Main situations for loss hair are the greasy hair which lacks of luster. Some hairs are yellow or pale gray and the main features of the offer of freedom of consciousness and even zero in fro...
Continue reading ...
Haematococcus pluvialis become the protector of collagen
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, May 16, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Human skin aging is mainly due to the loss of collagen and aging in the skin. So protecting the collagen, reducing the damage becomes the direction for research and development of most skin care products. It is the target for beauty industry over the years. Recently, the haematococcus pluvialis is recognized as the best biological nature in production of natural astaxanthin. As a new creature protecting the biological collagen, it has wide range of cognitiveness for the biosphere. The experts...
Continue reading ...
Biotin creates a large new market
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, May 15, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Biotin is also known as vitamin H. It makes the body to convert food into the strength. Biological agents can contribute to the health and cell renewal and diabetes, as well as to improve and adjust the levels of blood sugar. The healthy hair and nails are also very dependent on biotin. The marketing studies have shown that biotin is orally absorbed rapidly in the stomach and intestines. About 80% of biotin is in free form. It is distributed in the body tissues, and more content in liver or k...
Continue reading ...
Side effects of irinotecan in treatment of lung cancer
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, May 15, 2012, In : pharmaceutical raw materials
Lung cancer is a malignant tumor with highest morbidity and mortality. Among them, 15% to 20% are SCLC. The incidence rate shows an increasing trend. It is characterized by rapid growth, early metastasis and highly aggressive. Because of its high degree of sensitivity to chemotherapy, chemotherapy is the most important and basic treatment for patients with SCLC. The EP regimen has become the standard first-line treatment for limited stage and extensive stage of SCLC, with efficiency of 60% to...
Continue reading ...
The most important factor to cause male pattern baldness
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, May 14, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Hair loss is caused by many factors. Among them, a genetic factor has become the most direct solids. In some family members have very similar hair types: sparse hair that progressive occurs from the forehead on both sides and top of the head. This alopecia genetic is called as male baldness. Genetic alopecia is difficult to treat, because the gene has already decided everything. However, most of men are not so unfortunately. Their hair loss is often caused by acquired factors. As long as to b...
Continue reading ...
Effect of retinoic acid on oral lichen planus
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, May 11, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Oral lichen planus is a chronic inflammation in oral mucosa. It is a multifactorial disease with the occurrence of 0.5% to 2%. It is the result of the interaction of genetic and lifestyle factors. Most patients had spontaneous pain, anxiety and limiting the mucosa clinical symptoms. It affects the daily lives of patients. Tretinoin has a significant effect in the acute phase oral lichen planus.
After treatment with oral lichen planus returned to retinoic acid: white pattern loss, erosion heali...
Continue reading ...
Cosmetic ingredients: hypoallergenic and preservative alternative become an industrial direction in future
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, May 10, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
With the continued growth of the daily chemicals markets in <?<span>China, many multinational companies are entering the market of raw materials. There are considerable technical advantages of multi-national presence in the high-compression raw domestic companies in China. But these companies provide raw materials, technology and management experience for local companies.
The main thrust of cosmetic share two major trends. This class is based on the safety of ingredients that stimulate the formulation...
Continue reading ...
Natural astaxanthin’s important functions in heath food
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, May 9, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Astaxanthin is used in the dye, food freshness and nutrition. Astaxanthin is soluble in fat, and has bright red swing color. It is a kind of powerful antioxidant food. It plays an important role in maintenance freshness for fishes. Japanese red astaxanthin oil are used in marinated vegetables and seaweed. They all get patents. The astanxanthins are also used to color drinks, noodles and spices.
Natural astaxanthin has strong color strength. Research has shown that different colors in different...
Continue reading ...
Should minoxidil seoul be added in shampoo?
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, May 8, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Minoxidil is a well-known name to many hair losers. Minoxidil is a vasodilator, and it can be used in high blood pressure. But the system for treatment of hair loss is primarily on dilate blood vessels. Minoxidil is an oral drug for clinical blood pressure.
Minoxidil direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle, there is a strong role in the growth of small arteries and to reduce peripheral resistance, vasodilatory, blood pressure had no effect on the substrate may contribute to the capacitance...
Continue reading ...
Biotin can be used in face lifting
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, May 3, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
<?<p>
Biotin is a most widely accepted method in face lifting for people who love beauty. It can quickly resolve the masseter muscle hypertrophy. The clinical application of biotin has decades of history. The results are highly reliable. Within safe doses, it has no adverse effects. In the <?<span>United States it has been used in the conventional treatment of masseter hypertrophy. And it is very common in Japan. 80% of the people with masseter muscle hypertrophy received increased significantly effects...
Continue reading ...
Natural astaxanthin becomes a tool to eradicate sub health
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, May 2, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Sub-health state can be changed. To change the status of this sub-health, you must first learn to rest in a scientific manner and regulation of emotions. Thus it can make a leisurely treatment at work, learning and the various problems encountered in interpersonal relationship. You should have the courage to face up to yourself with a positive attitude. You also need to take effective action to face the objective reality. Under the premise to ensure adequate sleep, you are alone in meditation...
Continue reading ...
Cosmetic compositions’ publication
Posted by tracy ma on Saturday, April 28, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
International rules ask for appearing all cosmetics materials compositions on cosmetics packaging. The label names need to be prescribed in the order. Cosmetic products imported from <?<span>China are without exception. They must be marked on a label affixed to China. Everyone's skin is different in terms of skin care products requirements will differ. Pharmaceutical substances have pharmaceutical properties. They will make cosmetic side effects happened. The very sensitive skin should be careful.<?<p>
...
Continue reading ...
Mechanism of anti wrinkles in astaxanthin
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, April 27, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
The skin consists of three layers: the epidermis, dermis and subcutaneous fat. The skin layer is composed of collagen, elastin and other fibers in scaffold of the skin. These elements make the skin smooth and youthful. The same elements are also sensitive to UVA and UVB damage.<?<p>
UV is in the long wavelength UVA and UVB ultraviolet split. UV, UVA has a wavelength longer able to reach the dermis layer of the greater loss of collagen support skeleton of the epidermis has disappeared, which wil...
Continue reading ...
Reduced glutathione can treat fatty liver
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, April 26, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
In recent years, with the improvement of living standards of people lives, excessive drinking and excessive intake of lipids, fatty liver disease is extremely common in clinical. But as so far there are no exact effective drugs for fatty liver. The reduced glutathione is used in the treatment of fatty liver and its efficacy is observed and compares in clinical experiments. Glutathione obtains better clinical results.
Fatty liver is fat an unusually large number accumulating in the liver, ch...
Continue reading ...
The action mechanism of minoxidil
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, April 25, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
The nature and role of minoxidil is the same to hydrolyzing. It is strong and durable. It affects the blood pressure, so as not to affect apparent capacity for the vessel, making the peripheral vascular resistance. It directly affects the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle of small arteries. In excitability, it can reflex sympathetic and increase the heart rate and cardiac output increase. It can also increase the plasma renin activity.<?<p>
The mechanism of minoxidil hair growth is not clea...
Continue reading ...
The use of Chinese herbal medicine as raw materials in cosmetics
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, April 23, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Medicinal stone’s beauty function as cosmetics raw material has been recognized. Medicinal stone is mainly produced in <?<span>Inner Mongolia, China. It is one kind of weathered silicate minerals including nearly 20 kinds of inorganic mineral elements and trace elements. It is mainly composed of silicon and harmless to human body. It is sweet, warm and non-toxic. It is diuretic and hepatoprotective. It is also benefit for stomach and can regulate nerve and heart function. It helps ion exchange, imp...
Continue reading ...
International supplements market is highly competitive
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, April 18, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Market of global plant preparations (including soy ingredients, algae composition and fiber content) market reached $ 83 billion. The annual growth rate of major categories products are from 3% to 12%. Among them, plant food supplements market size is $ 11 billion. Market size of functional foods with plant ingredients is $ 14 billion. These two categories account for as much as 1/3 of the total market. <?<p>
In the capacity of such a market, the competitive supplement market has been very intens...
Continue reading ...
Physiological function and application of biotin
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, April 17, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Biotin is a water-soluble sulfur compound. It is necessary for human and animal body to maintain normal physiological function and low molecular weight organic compounds. It is an indispensable nutrient. Biotin is widely distributed in plants and microorganism’s vivo, such as yellow maize, barley, wheat, wheat bran, alfalfa, brewer's yeast, whey powder, etc.The yeast has maximum utilization and the content. The biotin of wheat, sorghum and other cereals shows a combining state and has lower...
Continue reading ...
Retinoic acid and antidepressant can be used in treatment of leukemia
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, April 16, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Research team of association for cancer research’s experimental studies has shown that: combination of vitamin A’s derivative retinoic acid and antidepressant can be used for the treatment of leukemia, a common type of disease. The tretinoin is called as all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and it is a vitamin A derivative. It has been used successfully to treat a rare type of disease in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). But this drug does not have effect on some more common types of AML.<?<p>
Leukemia...
Continue reading ...
Minoxidil tonic can treat hair loss effectively
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, April 13, 2012, In : hair loss
Male alopecia refers to the seborrheic alopecia. Minoxidil solution can be used in treating male androgenetic alopecia. After 3 months’ use, 2/3 of patients have mild to moderate hair growth. In 12 months, 74% of patients’ appearances have a significant improvement. Minoxidil is equally effective for female androgenetic alopecia. <?<p>
Many drugs affect the hair growth cycle and cause hair loss. Hair loss anticancer drugs has a significant adverse reactions, minoxidil can reduce chemotherapy-...
Continue reading ...
The use of retinoic acid therapy in dermatology
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, April 12, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Retinoic acid is a class of natural or synthetic derivatives of vitamin A. Vitamin A is necessary for normal epithelial proliferation and differentiation. But in the treatment of skin diseases, it has adverse reactions. Its molecular structure‘s improvement provides a variety of compounds with similar structures. They are collectively referred as tretinoin. Because it can not treat vitamin A deficiency, so it does not actually belong to the scope of the vitamins.
<?<p>
Retinoids were first star...
Continue reading ...
Source and functions of important vitamins
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, April 11, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Vitamins are necessary nutrients for human body to maintain normal physiological functions. It can not be synthesized in the body or with insufficient synthesis. It must be taken in from a variety of food. The vitamin is not a source of energy. Their role is to guarantee the normal functioning of physiological functions. There are many different types of vitamins. It can be divided into fat-soluble vitamins and water-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are dissolving in water. It becomes w...
Continue reading ...
Application of retinoic acid in skin diseases
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, April 10, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
In the history of development of dermatology treatment, there are three revolutions. The first revolution is the application of antibiotics. The second revolution refers to the application of hormone. While the third revolution is the retinoic acid application. Retinoic acid is an intermediate product of vitamin A metabolism in human body. It plays an important role in the morphogenesis and differentiation of various tissues.<?<p>
Retinoic acid according to the structure can be divided into three...
Continue reading ...
Functions and market application of astaxanthin
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, April 9, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Astaxanthin is a carotenoid end. Without modification or biochemical conversion, it can enter into the animal body and directly be stored in the organization. So that the skin and muscle of some aquatic animals show healthy and bright colors which make eggs and poultry feathers, skin and feet show the health golden yellow or red color. Β-carotene can be converted to astaxanthin in the body of shellfish. But most of them become vitamin A with less effective coloring effects. And it does not h...
Continue reading ...
Hair loss is a modern disease
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, April 6, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Alopecia is a most common phenomenon for men. The reason is that the pressure on male is larger than the female’s. Relevant experts claim that hair loss is a modern disease. A number of factors should arouse people’s attention, such as excessive use of air conditioning and tretinoin, excessive weight loss diet, eating too oiled hot and frequent computer use. These may become the causes of hair loss.<?<p>
The main component of hair is called as fish prion proteins. Shortage of zinc, iron, copp...
Continue reading ...
Adverse reactions of isotretinoin
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, April 5, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Isotretinoin belongs to the first generation of tretinoin drugs. It is also known as 13-cis-retinoic acid. It has the effects of shrink sebaceous tissue, inhibiting the activity of sebaceous glands, reducing the secretion of the sebaceous glands, reducing keratinized epithelial cells and reducing the number of propionibacterium acnes. It is applied in the treatment of acne conglobata, nodular cystic acne outbreak acne with significant effect. Tretinoin is deeply welcomed by patients. Despite ...
Continue reading ...
Action mechanism and application of astaxanthin
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, April 4, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Due to the increasingly serious environmental pollution and changes of people's daily eating habits and lifestyle, the body will produce large amounts of free radicals so that the body is apt to cause a variety of diseases. It results in damage to various organs of the body. Iron will rust in the airs because tracks stay in long-term role of the sun and acidic oxides plus rainwater which contains a wide variety of acidic oxides. The tracks are changed in the role of these oxidants oxidative. ...
Continue reading ...
Biotin pattern changes make the price raised irrationally
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, April 3, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Biotin production technology made a success in 2001. It marks that <?<span>China is able to produce all the forage vitamin varieties which breaks the monopoly of foreign manufacturers of biotin technology. The market price is also down sharply from 1,000 RMB / kg. Because of technological breakthroughs and factory expansion, it results in biotin oversupply. In addition to the internal and external environmental impacts in 2007 to 2008, vitamin overall prices of biotin fluctuate significantly. At othe...
Continue reading ...
Detailed introduction of minoxidil
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, March 30, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Minoxidil is a drug for potassium channel opening. This drug is often accompanied by the emission tachycardia and cardiac output increase. It has a selective role for vascular expansion and it is often seen in the coronary, gastrointestinal tract, blood vessels and cerebral vascular. But is will not have expansion in the kidney and skin blood vessels. <?<p>
Minoxidil was originally used to control high blood pressure. It was found that there is an interesting side effect to reverse or slow down t...
Continue reading ...
Biotin prices is immersed in though
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, March 29, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Because the weak demand in the international market, too hot biotin investment from China suppliers, biotin prices has fell into the trough since the end of 2008. In recent years, pharmaceutical biotin’s demand has significant growth. Biotin export volume reached 117 tons in 2008 with an increase of 84.25%. Export value was approximately $ 77,370,000, representing a substantial increase of 278.10%. In market quotation of 2008, the highest quoted market prices of pharmaceutical biotin reache...
Continue reading ...
Minoxidil can be used to promote hair growing
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, March 28, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Minoxidil is a vasodilator. It is originally used to treat high blood pressure with side effects of stimulating the growth factor in hair follicles. It can promote hair regrowth and a large number of clinical trials confirm that topical use of minoxidil in hair loss treatment is feasible. In 1988, 2% minoxidil <?<span>seoul liquid was approved for topical treatment of male pattern rogenetic alopecia. <?<p>
In 1997, 5% minoxidil solution was approved used in male pattern hair loss. Minoxidil to stimulate ...
Continue reading ...
Pharmacological effects of astaxanthin
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, March 27, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Astaxanthin is saturated and the extensible exists in nature, like most crustaceans, salmon vivo, the leaves of plants, flowers and fruits and flamingos feather. Currently, the most important natural astaxanthin and its content is very rich algae in fresh water, rain pluvialis and phaffia rhodozyma is untreated coconut milk can promote yeast produces significant amounts of astaxanthin Fife. Astaxanthin extraction solvent, batch fermentation, CO2 supercritical extraction. May also be used to i...
Continue reading ...
Glutathione and its whitening function
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, March 26, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
When talking about glutathione, people know that it can enhance effectiveness of the immune system, nourish the liver and protect the liver. In fact, the charming elements glutathione is a particularly effective anti-oxidant supplement with the functions of capturing free oxygen radicals, restoring melanin and promoting the role of collagen synthesis. Glutathione also can effectively enhance the ability of skin to against sun damage.<?<p>
Skin care can not be separated from the skin whitening an...
Continue reading ...
Application of natural astaxanthin
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, March 23, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
At present, there are nutritious health food and medicines using astaxanthin as raw material in the international market. Its product is positioning in strengthening the immune system, cancer, protect the retina against ultraviolet rays and photo- oxidation, anti-inflammatory, which prevents blood LDL cholesterol levels, oxidative damage and other aspects.<?<p>
Aquaculture industry has always been the largest market for astaxanthin. Plant breeding in the marketing of fish and shellfish (such as...
Continue reading ...
Astaxanthin’s anit aging and anticancer effects
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, March 21, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
No one can live forever or stop the marks face left by the age. But people still want to delay the aging speed and postpone skin aging and wrinkles. In real life, there are a lot of foods which have the function, such as natural vitamin E, grape seed and beta carotene. They are all good antioxidants. But in the fight against aging and free radicals, the substances people always talk about are not the most powerful.The strongest effect is of astaxanthin.<?<p>
Astaxanthin is a red pigment, can give...
Continue reading ...
Glutathione in Chinese market
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, March 20, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Cysteine ​​thiol of glutathione is active groups. It has easy integration with active detoxification, mustard gas, lead, mercury, arsenic and other heavy metal salts of complex thiol groups of cysteine, glutathione. Glutathione (GSH liver cells), including the metabolism of some drugs, toxins (such as free radicals, such as heavy metals), and important physiological role in the integration of detoxifying harmful toxins harmless to the body is removed.<?<p>
August detoxification, acrylonitrile...
Continue reading ...
Glutathione and antioxidant
Posted by tracy ma on Friday, March 16, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Glutathione is a peptide of three amino acids. It almost exists in every cell of the body. Glutathione can effectively work in the human body under the conditions of the cells and their precursors (vitamin C and alpha lipoic acid). Glutathione helps to maintain normal immune system’s function. There is an effective immune response occurred in the breeding lymphocytes (cell-mediated specific immunity). The immune system of cells produces many oxiradicals. Because their normal operation requi...
Continue reading ...
Tretinoin ointment should be used at night in the treatment of acne
Posted by tracy ma on Thursday, March 15, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
In the treatment of acne, tretinoin ointment is a most commonly used drugs. Because of the moment eager for curing acne, some of the patients will coat retinoic acid ointment on faces both in the morning and evening. And some even use it three times a day with the results of skin redness, pain and other adverse reactions.<?<p>
The main component of the tretinoin ointment is the all-trans retinoic acid. In addition to cure acne, can also be used for the treatment of psoriasis, ichthyosis, lichen p...
Continue reading ...
Development of cosmetics material market goes into a green era
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, March 14, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
In order to achieve a particular function, most cosmetics will add some chemical compositions. These ingredients will more or less endanger the health of consumers. So green, organic and natural cosmetics material have become urgent demand for consumers. API suppliers also conform to the demands and constantly promote the market of cosmetic raw materials to the green era. <?<p>
In recent years, cosmetics safety issues become increasingly sever. Surfactant residues dioxane and ZPT storm, a series ...
Continue reading ...
How to choose hair dye rightly
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, March 12, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Hair dyes can be divided into temporary hair dye, semi-permanent hair dyes and permanent hair dyes. In accordance with the formulations of classification, it can be divided into cream type, gel type, moss type, powder type, hair color bars and rinse.<?<p>
The hair dye is the biotin cosmetic which can change hair color. Hair can be dyed different colors of different shades of color cosmetics. Chinese hair products are defined as special purpose cosmetics. So-called special purpose role between med...
Continue reading ...
Naturtint hair colorant
Posted by tracy ma on Tuesday, March 6, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
With the improvement of people's living standards, the hair dye as a hair cosmetic has been gradually stepped into ordinary people’s life. It is a modern self-expression and personalized embellishment. The hair dye can make hair color return to nature and make up for the regret of some inherent or acquired. As a personality and stylish embellishment, many people change the single hair color. On the basis of the original hair color, the dye changes or adjusts the colors of hairs in pursuit o...
Continue reading ...
The application of hair dyes
Posted by tracy ma on Monday, March 5, 2012, In : Cosmetics material
Hair dyes, also know as hair cosmetics, are cosmetics which can change the hair’s color. Meaning of hair dyes in old <?<span>China only refers to make the white hair black. Now the black hair can be bleached, decolored and becomes reddish brown, golden yellow, yellow, blue and other colors with different shades. <?<p>
At present, consumer group of China hair products has two categories. One category is mainly in the elderly silver-haired consumers. This group of people uses different brands of black ha...
Continue reading ...
How to deal with cosmetics allergies
Posted by tracy ma on Wednesday, November 23, 2011, In : Cosmetics material
Occurrence of cosmetic contact dermatitis, as long as immediately stop using all types of cosmetics and timely diagnosis to the hospital, the first control of the disease, the symptoms will be eliminated in general 1-2 days, unless the cause can not detect, or they use other types of cosmetic This intersection occurs allergic dermatitis easy to repeated attacks, or into a chronic, delayed healing. Of course, another point is that we easily fall into the error, there is an allergy to use cream...
Continue reading ...
« Back to posts
Tags
"fine "non woven bag (cc) 10-hydroxydecanoic 10-hydroxydecanoic acid 663) acid api api supplier astaxanthin astaxanthin biotin barium titanate biotin bismuth boron boron powder bronze chemicals chia chia seed chromite citrate copper copper chromite (cc) copper powder(fcu 663) copper powder(fcu) cosmetic cosmetics cosmetics material docetaxel exporter extracts fine fine chemicals fine chemicals suppliers fine chemicals wholesalers glutathione irinotecan lead lead citrate lead salicylate magnesia manganese manganese powder material materials metal metal powder metal powder exporter metal powder supplier minoxidil musk musk r-1 neodymium fluoride nickel nickel oxide nickel powder non woven bag china nonwoven bag nonwoven bag china octylferrocene pharmaceutical pharmaceutical raw materials plant plant extracts powde powder powder(fcu powder(fcu) r-1 raw recycle bag recycle pet bag recycle pet reusable bag recycling bag resveratrol reusable bag riphenyl rpet bag salicylate seed silicon silicon powder supplie supplier suppliers suppliers，glutathione titanium dioxide tretinoin triphenyl triphenyl bismuth wholesalers zinc oxide
Categories
Cosmetics material (139)
fine chemicals (74)
hair loss (1)
metal powder (135)
pharmaceutical raw materials (138)
recycle bag (51)
Titanium dioxide (50)
Recent Posts
The Function of Glutathione in Daily Live
The role of Astaxanthin, astaxanthin and diabetes
The Distribution of Manganese Ore In The Global...
Plant extracts analysis of international market
World manganese ore trends and outlook
Blog Archive
October 2011
November 2011
December 2011
January 2012
February 2012
March 2012
April 2012
May 2012
June 2012
July 2012
August 2012
Subscribe to this blog
Blogroll
manganese powder
astaxanthin
Triphenyl Bismuth
reusable Bag
Barium titanate
Glutathione
This free website was made using Yola.
No HTML skills required. Build your website in minutes.
Go to www.yola.com and sign up today!
Make a free website with Yola