Air and Water Centre Blog
Croup & humidifiers
Blog Categories
Air Conditioners
Air Curtains
Air Purifiers
Air Purifier Reviews
Ceiling Fans
Ceiling Fan Reviews
Dehumidifiers
Dehumidifier Reviews
Desiccant
Evaporative Coolers
General
Heaters
Humidifiers
Humidifier Reviews
Limescale Inhibitors
Scale Inhibitor Reviews
Oil Filled Radiators
Oil Filled Radiator Reviews
Weather Stations
Weather Station Reviews
Wine Products
Wine Product Reviews
Recent Posts
Thought dehumidifiers were...
Win a Q Desk Fan by Stadler
Heat wave!
Keeping Your Holiday Home...
Give Your Garden Some Love...
Popular Posts
Can Air Purifiers Prevent... {7}
Desiccant or compressor... {5}
Fresh Prince of Bel Air... {4}
Which humidifier should I {2}
Croup & humidifiers {2}
Have a question?
Call our experts
0800 840 5757
Open Mon-Fri 9am-5pm (4:30pm on Fri)
02
Feb
Croup & humidifiers
Written by Duncan under Humidifiers | 2 Comments
By being in an atmosphere with a high humidity, the severe coughing that comes with croup can be relieved. A high humidity can be created by standing in a bathroom with the hot taps or shower running, by simply going outside as the air is often wetter outside than in, or by adding water to the air with a humidifier. This is the most practical solution for getting a good night’s sleep.
Any humidifier will increase a room’s humidity but for relieving symptoms of croup, steam humidifiers are best solution. The moisture being released into a room from a steam humidifier has been boiled and is therefore totally hygienic and won’t add any particles to the atmosphere like an ultrasonic might. We’d recommend the 2231 Steam Humidifier, Turmix or Boneco Vapouriser.
The 2231 is the most expensive but its main advantage is that it has an integrated humidistat that will allow you to set the humidity to a certain level. The other two can be used with a Plug-in humidistat but the combined price makes the 2231 a much better deal. It also has other features like a removeable water tank, allowing you to easily fill it, and two levels of output.
The Turmix is the quitest of the three. The water is warmed rather than boiled so the steam is released without any noise. It’s still hygienic as the vapour can’t carry particulate matter or bacteria.
The Boneco Vapouriser is the most economical of the three and is still a very reliable little humidifier. It also has fragrance cup so that essential oils can be evaporated into an atmopshere. It’s also great to use with Vicks if you’ve got a cold or are simply a bit congested.
2 Responses to “Croup & humidifiers”
Lorretta Kakowski says:
March 9, 2010 at 10:07 am
I don’t normally comment on blogs. I did however really enjoy reading the main post. I’ll go through the rest of the website. Thanks!
Katherina Standford says:
March 9, 2010 at 10:09 am
I hardly ever comment on blogs. I did however enjoy reading the primary article. I will look over the rest of the this website. Thank-you!
Post a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Type your comment here...
JS Air & Water Centre T: 01903 858657 F: 01903 850345 E: info@airandwatercentre.com | Site Map