Dr. Nadia Saleem | 3 Ways to Beat Your Migraines, Naturally!
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
Home
About
Blog
Services
Contact
3 Ways to Beat Your Migraines, Naturally!
October 21, 2015 /0 Comments/in Uncategorized /by Nadia Saleem
M
igraine sufferers know how hard it is to find relief from the debilitating symptoms that accompany migraines, often leaving people unable to even get out of bed for hours or days. Conventional pain relievers only mask the pain, providing short-lasting relief, without targeting the actual causes of the migraines. One of the pathophysiologies of migraines is assumed to be altered energy metabolism in the mitochondria. Simply put, this means the powerhouse of every cell in our body, the mitochondria, is unable to produce the power or energy adequately because of faulty pathways. But that doesn’t mean we cannot fight back. Through the right vitamins, minerals and supplements, suffers can see lasting results and find relief from migraines.
“magnesium is also useful as a preventative treatment for chronic migraines”
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10)
An important antioxidant, is necessary for energy production by the mitochondria. Many people know if it in the context of heart health, but it is equally as important for the brain as it is for the heart. CoQ10 has been shown to provide significant benefits in migraine sufferers, especially as a preventative treatment in chronic migraine sufferers. Studies have shown CoQ10, at doses of 150mg a day, to be an effective treatment for the prevention of migraine headaches in sufferers.
Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin)
Riboflavin, much like CoQ10, is very important in the production of energy in the mitochondria, albeit through a different mechanism. A member of the family of water soluble B-vitamins, Riboflavin has also been extensively studied in the treatment and prevention of migraine headaches. A randomized placebo-controlled double-blind test showed that, given at 400mg a day, Riboflavin provided an effective preventative treatment for migraines. Other studies have showed Riboflavin to decrease the frequency and duration of migraines. The best way to take Riboflavin is to balance it with a B-complex. Just know that your urine may be fluorescent yellow for some time when you start taking these vitamins.
Magnesium
Also vital for energy production in the mitochondria, magnesium is a mineral that many people are deficient in today. Magnesium helps to relax blood vessels. Low levels of magnesium has been correlated with blood vessel spasms associated with migraines. Studies have also shown low brain levels of magnesium during migraine attacks in sufferers.
Due to low magnesium content in our soil and thus our food today, many people suffer from low magnesium levels, which may also account for so many people suffering from migraines. In addition to being useful as a treatment during migraine attacks, magnesium is also useful as a preventative treatment for chronic migraines.
Although there are many factors which contribute to migraines, using natural therapies to restore vital nutrients that our body need and that are essential in proper functioning of the cells can be a great way to help prevent and treat your migraines.
Sources:
Pizzorno J, Murray M. The Textbook of Natural Medicine. 4th Ed. Churchill Livingstone. 2012 2)Welch KM, Ramadan NM. Mitochondria, Magneisum and Migraine. J Neurol Sci. 1995 Dec;134(1-2):9-14. 3)Boehnke C et al. High-dose riboflavin treatment is efficacious in migraine prophylaxis: an open study in a tertiary care centre. Eur J Neurol. 2004 Jul;11(7):475-7. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/152576864)Biachi et al. Role of Magnesium, Coenzyme Q10, Riboflavin, and Vitamin B12 in Migraine Prophylaxis. file:///Users/nadiasaleem/Downloads/BianchiVitHor%202004.pdf5)Rybicka M et al. The role of magnesium in pathogenesis. Potential use of magnesium compounds in prevention and treatment of migraine headaches. Review Paper. J. Elem. s. 345–356
Share this entry
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google+
Share on Pinterest
Share on Linkedin
Share on Tumblr
Share on Reddit
Share by Mail
0 replies
Leave a Reply
Want to join the discussion?
Feel free to contribute!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong>
Have a question?
Your Name (required)
Your Email (required)
Subject
Your Message
Like us on Facebook!
PAGES
About
About Dr. Nadia
About Naturopathic Medicine
better you
Blog
Contact
Home
Services
Popular
“Get Me Going” Breakfast Smoothie!May 24, 2015 - 11:10 pm
Detoxing the right way!May 24, 2015 - 10:21 pm
6 Steps to Improving Arthritis SymptomsOctober 21, 2015 - 10:07 pm
Recent
3 Ways to Beat Your Migraines, Naturally!October 21, 2015 - 10:43 pm
6 Steps to Improving Arthritis SymptomsOctober 21, 2015 - 10:07 pm
“Get Me Going” Breakfast Smoothie!May 24, 2015 - 11:10 pm
Comments
Hi, this is a comment. To delete a comment, just log in...May 20, 2015 - 4:56 pm by Mr WordPress
Tags
Come See Me!
© Copyright - Dr. Nadia Saleem - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
6 Steps to Improving Arthritis Symptoms
Scroll to top