Healthy fruits for Increasing Hemoglobin. - Tip Top Lifestyle
Tip Top Lifestyle
Lifestyle Blog
Beauty
World Health News
Going Green
Health
Mental Health
Meditation
Spirituality
Food
Fitness & Workouts
Yoga
Relationships
Search for:
Healthy fruits for Increasing Hemoglobin.
By erika nandwani
/
On May 29, 2014
/
At 7:34 am
/
In Health
110 Views
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body’s tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells. In their natural shape, red blood cells are round with narrow centers resembling a donut without a hole in the middle. Abnormal hemoglobin structure can, therefore, disrupt the shape of red blood cells and impede their function and flow through blood vessels.
A low hemoglobin level is referred to as anemia or low red blood count. Lower than normal number of red blood cells is referred to as anemia and hemoglobin level reflects this number.
Fruits that increase the blood count (hemoglobin) includes :-
1) Pomegranate :-
Most powerful anti-oxidant of all fruits.Potent anti-cancer and immune supporting effects .It Inhibits abnormal platelet aggregation that could cause heart attacks, strokes and embolic disease . It lowers cholesterol and other cardiac risk factors, Lowers blood pressure. Pomegranates are also a rich source of VitaminB, VitaminC, pantothenic acid and potassium, which have the potential to provide immunity against various diseases.
This fruit also has calcium and phosphorous which can strengthen the bones and the brain cells of an individual. The deficiency of these two minerals can lead to the weakening of bones. Pomegranates are fruits, which can fight anemia and increase the hemoglobin percentage as it is very rich in iron .
2) Dates :-
Dates are free from cholesterol and contain very low fat. Dates are rich in vitamins and minerals. They are rich source of protein, dietary fiber and rich in vitamin B1, B2, B3 and B5 along with vitamin A1 and C .It helps improve the digestive system as it contains soluble and insoluble fibers and different kinds of amino acids.
The benefits of dates include relief from constipation, intestinal disorders, heart problems, anemia, diarrhea, abdominal cancer, and many other conditions. Dates are good for gaining weight also. Dates are rich in several vitamins, minerals and fiber too. These delicious fruits contain oil, calcium, sulfur, iron, potassium, phosphorous, manganese, copper and magnesium which are all beneficial for health. Some health specialists have said that eating one day per day is necessary for a balanced and healthy diet.
3) Watermelons :-
Watermelon is the tasty and flavored fruit that we usually eat during summer in order to keep our bodies hydrated and refreshed, as it contains 90% water. This fruit has been used since ancient times by various peoples to protect the body from losing the necessary amount of water and from getting dehydrated during periods of drought. Watermelon was also used extensively when water sources were polluted.
The lycopene in watermelon is especially important for our cardiovascular health and is now being recognized as an important factor in promoting bone health. Consuming large amounts of watermelon has also been correlated with improved cardiovascular function because it improves blood flow.Watermelon is rich in phenolic compounds like flavonoids, carotenoids, and triterpenoids.
The high content of water makes watermelons very beneficial when used in weight loss programs, as they give us the impression of satiety, but have a reduced number of calories. But besides water, melons are laden with vitamin A and C, betacarotene, lycopen, iron, zinc, potassium and other nutritive minerals – which makes them twice as efficient in all kinds of diets, as they help us lose weight or stay fit and also give the body all the vitamins and nutrients it needs to continue functioning in an appropriate manner.
Melons intake is also extremely important for preserving our health because they are as rich in iron content , which means they are the richest fruits in iron.
4) Strawberries :-
Strawberry is the most popular type of berry anywhere in the world. There are hundreds of varieties of strawberries that vary in size, color, taste and texture. But they all basically have the same characteristic heart shape and red flesh with seeds on the surface. Strawberries contain powerful antioxidants that work against free radicals, inhibiting tumor growth and decreasing inflammation in the body.
Strawberries are a low glycemic index food and high in fiber, which helps to regulate blood sugar and keep it stable by avoiding extreme highs and lows.The flavonoid quercetin, contained in strawberries, is a natural anti-inflammatory that appears to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis. They are also rich in dietary fiber, flavonoids, potassium, folate, vitamins of the B complex (B2, B5, B6), biotin, manganese, iodine and zinc; and very low in protein, sugar and calories, and virtually devoid of fat and cholesterol.
5) Apples :-
Apples are extremely rich in important antioxidants, flavanoids, and dietary fiber.
The phytonutrients and antioxidants in apples may help reduce the risk of developing cancer, hypertension, diabetes, and heart disease. The natural sugars in apples are good for more than just their sweet taste. They also provide a natural energy boost. That’s why apples are a great choice for an early-morning snack or a post-workout treat. They taste great while also giving you the perk you need without having to drink caffeine or energy drinks.Apples are packed with iron, so they offer a convenient way to treat anemia. Iron increases hemoglobin levels in the body, which counteracts the effects of anemia. That’s why it can help to eat an apple if you happen to feel weak or faint. The natural sugars combined with the rich iron content will help give you the boost you need to feel alert again.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Linkedin
Pinterest
Post navigation
Prev Post
From Pessimism to Optimism
Next Post
Meditation – The secret to inner peace
You May Also Like
11 Best Books for People With Anxiety
On April 21, 2019 | In Beauty ,Health
How to Revamp Your Spring Beauty Routine, According to the Pros
On April 20, 2019 | In Beauty ,Health
Anna Duggar’s 50-Mile Walking Challenge Is Inspiring ‘Counting On’ Fans on Instagram
On April 19, 2019 | In Beauty ,Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Choose Your Language
This div height required for enabling the sticky sidebar
Top Posts & Pages
3 Ways How To Not Be Jealous Of Your BFF Having Other Friends
8 Elements of Yoga
4 yoga positions to cure postural deformity
Search for:
Tip Top Lifestyle
Lifestyle Blog
Copyright at 2018. Admania Theme All Rights Reserved
↑
Social media & sharing icons powered by UltimatelySocial
%d bloggers like this: