Vitamin D Helps Fight TB - Avian Flu Talk
Forum Home > General Discussion > Latest News
New Posts
FAQ
Search
Events
Register Login
Online Discussion: Tracking new emerging diseases and the next pandemic
Vitamin D Helps Fight TB
Post Reply
Author
Message
Topic Search Topic Options
Post Reply
Create New Topic
Printable Version
Translate Topic
Technophobe
Members Profile
Send Private Message
Find Members Posts
Add to Buddy List
Senior Moderator
Joined: January 16 2014
Location: Scotland
Status: Offline
Points: 55215 Post Options
Post Reply
Quote Technophobe
Report Post
Thanks(0)
Quote Reply Topic: Vitamin D Helps Fight TB
Posted: February 08 2019 at 11:16am
Us herbalists have known this for years. It is the reason the rich who could afford "The sunshine cure" survived (about 1/3 of the time) in the days before antibiotics. Well science has caught up at last.
Vitamin D helps treat lethal drug-resistant TB
Date:
February 6, 2019
Source:
Queen Mary University of London
Summary:
Vitamin D has been found to speed up the clearance of tuberculosis (TB) bacteria from the lungs of people with multi-drug resistant TB, according to a study of 1,850 patients receiving antibiotic treatment.
FULL STORY
Vitamin D has been found to speed up the clearance of tuberculosis (TB) bacteria from the lungs of people with multi-drug resistant TB, according to a study of 1,850 patients receiving antibiotic treatment, led by Queen Mary University of London.
Lead researcher Professor Adrian Martineau from Queen Mary University of London said: "Multi-drug resistant TB is on the rise globally. It's notoriously difficult to treat, and it carries a much worse prognosis than standard TB.
"Our study raises the possibility that vitamin D -- which is very safe and inexpensive -- could benefit this hard-to-treat group of patients by taking a novel approach to their treatment. By adding vitamin D to antibiotic treatment, we can boost the immune system to help the body to clear TB bugs, rather than relying on antibiotics on their own to kill the bacteria directly.
"This is a novel approach, as it contrasts with the conventional tactic of developing new antibiotics in an attempt to 'keep up' with the emergence of drug-resistant bacteria -- an arms race that is proving hard for us to win."
The World Health Organisation estimates that 10.0 million people developed active tuberculosis in 2017, and that 1.6 million people died of this disease. Multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB is caused by bacteria that are resistant to treatment with at least two of the most powerful first-line anti-TB drugs, causing around 500,000 cases and 150,000 deaths per year worldwide. Existing antibiotic treatments for MDR TB are lengthy, costly and often toxic due to their serious side effects.
Vitamin D has shown potential in boosting the immune system, but randomised controlled trials of vitamin D in TB treatment have yielded conflicting results.
In the new study, published in European Respiratory Journal, the research team pooled data from 1,850 TB patients who took part in clinical trials of vitamin D in eight countries (the UK, Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Republic of Georgia and Guinea Bissau). They then ran an analysis to see whether there were particular groups of patients who responded better to vitamin D than others.
When added to antibiotic treatment, vitamin D was found to accelerate TB clearance specifically in patients with MDR TB, even though no acceleration of TB clearance was seen when looking at the entire study population as a whole.
The vitamin D supplementation was also found to be safe at the doses administered, with no links to serious adverse events.
The researchers say these results illustrate the potential for so-called 'host-directed therapies' -- treatments that boost the immune system -- to improve outcomes in patients with drug-resistant bacterial infections.
The researchers caution that the analysis is not sufficient on its own to justify a clinical recommendation of the use of vitamin D in the treatment of MDR TB, as it is based on a relatively small number of participants. However, they say these results now provide a rationale to carry out new clinical trials to see if vitamin D really can benefit patients who are taking standard antibiotics for MDR TB.
The findings add to a growing list of health benefits for the 'sunshine vitamin'. While vitamin D is best known for its effects on bone health, previous studies by Queen Mary researchers have revealed its role in protecting against colds, flu, asthma attacks, and last month, that it can protect COPD patients from deadly lung attacks.
Story Source:
Materials provided by Queen Mary University of London. Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
Journal Reference:
David A. Jolliffe, Davaasambuu Ganmaa, Christian Wejse, Rubhana Raqib, Md. Ahsanul Haq, Nawal Salahuddin, Peter K. Daley, Anna P. Ralph, Thomas R. Ziegler, Adrian R. Martineau. Adjunctive vitamin D in tuberculosis treatment: meta-analysis of individual participant data. European Respiratory Journal, 2019; 1802003 DOI: 10.1183/13993003.02003-2018
Queen Mary University of London. "Vitamin D helps treat lethal drug-resistant TB." ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 6 February 2019. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2019/02/190206200347.htm>.
Source: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2019/02/190206200347.htm
Absence of proof is not proof of absence.
Post Reply
Tweet
Forum Jump -- Select Forum -- General Discussion - Off Topic Discussion - Politics - Political Discussion Latest News Avian Flu Swine Flu & Seasonal Flu Ebola MERS Coronavirus Pandemic Survival Tips Sheltering in Place Medical Intervention & Prevention General Planning Tips - Initial Prepping List - Food Storage Tips - Supplies You Might Need - Pets & Animals Extra Planning - Electricity and Solar Energy - Masks - Communication Issues Home Protection The Dungeon Report Technical Issues Select Your State - Alabama - Arizona - Alaska - Arkansas - California - Colorado - Connecticut - Delaware - Florida - Georgia - Hawaii - Idaho - Illinois - Indiana - Iowa - Kansas - Kentucky - Louisiana - Maine - Maryland - Massachusetts - Michigan - Minnesota - Mississippi - Missouri - Montana - Nebraska - Nevada - New Hampshire - New Jersey - New Mexico - New York - North Carolina - North Dakota - Ohio - Oklahoma - Oregon - Pennsylvania - Rhode Island - South Carolina - South Dakota - Tennessee - Texas - Utah - Vermont - Virgina - Washington - West Virginia - Wisconsin - Wyoming Select Your Country - Australia - Canada - Europe (UK) - New Zealand - South America Forum Permissions
You cannot post new topics in this forum
You cannot reply to topics in this forum
You cannot delete your posts in this forum
You cannot edit your posts in this forum
You cannot create polls in this forum
You can vote in polls in this forum