Burned Finger: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment
Newsletter
Burned Finger
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD, MPH on May 29, 2018 — Written by Scott Frothingham
Degrees
Symptoms
Treatment
What to avoid
Home remedies
Takeaway
Causes of burned fingers
Burning your finger can be incredibly painful because there are many nerve endings in your fingertips. Most burns are caused by:
hot liquid
steam
building fires
flammable liquids or gases
Treating a burned finger can be done at home. However, if you experience a more serious burn, you may want to visit your doctor.
Burned finger by degree
Burns on your fingers — and anywhere else on your body — are categorized by the levels of damage they cause.
First-degree burns injure the outer layer of your skin.
Second-degree burns injure the outer layer and the layer underneath.
Third-degree burns injure or destroy the deep layers of skin and the tissue underneath.
Burned finger symptoms
Burn symptoms are typically related to the severity of the burn. Symptoms of a burned finger include:
pain, although you shouldn’t judge how bad your burn is based on your pain level
redness
swelling
blisters, which can be filled with fluid or broken and leaking
red, white, or charred skin
peeling skin
Burned finger treatment
Burn first aid focuses on four general steps:
Stop the burning process.
Cool the burn.
Supply pain relief.
Cover the burn.
When you burn your finger, proper treatment depends on:
the cause of the burn
the degree of the burn
if the burn covers one finger, several fingers, or your whole hand
Major hand and finger burns
Major burns:
are deep
are larger than 3 inches
have patches of white or black
A major burn needs immediate medical treatment and a call to 911. Other reasons to call 911 include:
burned fingers after electrical shock or handling chemicals
if someone who’s been burned shows signs of shock
smoke inhalation in addition to a burn
Prior to the arrival of qualified emergency help, you should:
remove restrictive items such as rings, watches, and bracelets
cover the burn area with a clean, cool, moist bandage
raise the hand above the level of the heart
Minor hand and finger burns
Minor burns:
are smaller than 3 inches
cause superficial redness
make blisters form
cause pain
don’t break the skin
Minor burns require immediate action but often don’t require a trip to the emergency room. You should:
Run cool water over your finger or hand for 10 to 15 minutes.
After flushing the burn, cover it with a dry, sterile bandage.
If necessary, take over-the-counter (OTC) pain medication such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve), or acetaminophen (Tylenol).
Once it’s cooled, put on a thin layer of a moisturizing lotion or gel such as aloe vera.
Minor burns will usually heal without additional treatment, but if your pain level doesn’t change after 48 hours or if red streaks start spreading from your burn, call your doctor.
Things not to do for finger burns
When performing first aid on a burned finger:
Don’t apply ice, medicine, ointment, or any household remedy — such as butter or oil spray — to a severe burn.
Don’t blow on a burn.
Don’t rub, pick, or otherwise disturb blistered or dead skin.
Home remedy for finger burns
Although most home remedies for burns aren’t supported by clinical research, a showed that applying honey to second- and third-degree burns was an effective alternative to a silver sulfadiazine dressing, which is traditionally used to prevent and treat infections in burns.
The takeaway
As long as a burn on your finger isn’t too severe, basic first aid will put you on the road to full recovery. If your burn is major, you should seek immediate medical attention.
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD, MPH on May 29, 2018 — Written by Scott Frothingham
related stories
Burn Types, Treatments, and More
Home Remedies for Burns
First-Degree Burn
What Burns Cause Scars and How Are Burn Scars Treated?
Burns from Boiling Water
READ THIS NEXT
Burn Types, Treatments, and More
Medically reviewed by Modern Weng, DO
Burns are characterized by severe skin damage that causes the affected cells to die. Most people can recover from burns without serious health…
READ MORE
Home Remedies for Burns
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
You can treat most first-degree and second-degree burns at home by running cool water over the area for 20 minutes. Relieve pain with cool compresses…
READ MORE
First-Degree Burn
Medically reviewed by Modern Weng, D.O.
A first-degree burn is an injury that affects the first layer of your skin. First-degree burns are one of the mildest forms of skin injuries.
READ MORE
What Burns Cause Scars and How Are Burn Scars Treated?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, CNE, COI
Second- and third-degree burns can cause scars. Treatment options depend on the severity of your burn. Learn more.
READ MORE
Burns from Boiling Water
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Boiling water burns or scalds are injuries caused by moist heat and vapors. Learn how to prevent these burns and how to treat them at home.
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 148490 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877