Best Supplements for Eczema - Treatments for Eczema
supplementDB .org
Search SupplementsHealth NewsWrite for Us
Search your health condition to learn which supplements are helping others find relief.
Clear
Best Supplements for eczema
Sort by:
Most Mentions
Least Controversial
Hide bad reviews
Hide obvious recommendations
Top Recommendations
PRO-Kids Children's Probiotics - 60 Tiny, Sugar Free, Onc...
Probiotic 40 Billion CFU. Guaranteed Potency until Expira...
Dr. Tobias CandidaFX - Extra Strength Candida Cleanse - W...
Nature's Way EfaGold Evening Primrose, Cold Pressed Oil 1...
NOW Super Primrose 1300 mg,60 Softgels
NOW Super Primrose 1300 mg,120 Softgels
Now Foods Vitamin D-3 Full Body Cream, 4 Ounce
Organic Neem Oil (8 oz), 100% Pure Cold Press, Unrefined-...
Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides (20 oz) - Pasture-Raised...
Jarrow Formulas Evening Primrose, Supports Women's Health...
1. PRO-Kids Children's Probiotics - 60 Tiny, Sugar Free, Once Daily, Time Release Pearls - 15x More Survivability Than Capsules - Recommended With Vitamins - For Kids Ages 3 and Up - Easy to Swallow
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - Eczema life changer
This was a last resort for my daughter's (age 9) eczema. We had tried everything under the sun, extreme elimination diets, steroids, all natural everything- nothing was working. Her eczema was on her inner elbows, wrists, neck, behind knees. She had started wearing long sleeved sweatshirts daily so her wrecked skin on her arms wouldn't show to her classmates :( We were at a complete loss on what to do and more frustrating, her doctor had no other solutions besides oral steroids. Started these and noticed huge improvement by 2nd week. 3 weeks in and it is an absolute miracle. Skin is completely healed, no itching, no redness- NOTHING. I wish I had tried this the second her eczema flared up. Now thank goodness it looks like the probiotics has it fully under control.
4.0 - this product is great!
I purchased this for my four-year-old because everyone knows the kind of germs that come from a preschool setting. My daughter has had eczema on her arms and legs almost her entire life. Since taking Pro-Kids, I have noticed that the eczema has improved substantially! My only issue is that she has difficulty swallowing the small pearl, so she has to chew it a little beforehand, but other than that, this product is great!
5.0 - Kids need probiotics too!
We decided to give these a try after seeing how well our teenage daughter has responded with the pro-15 by the same company. Our younger children have now been taking these for a while. They have all benefited in various ways. A case of severe eczema has improved, a milder case of eczema has completely cleared up, we no longer have to give laxatives for constipation, abdominal pain is relieved, and they don't get sick as often as they used to. Our son with ADHD has improved with his schooling and his ability to focus as well.
5.0 - Love this product for my 7 year old who has ...
Love this product for my 7 year old who has eczema! He’s been taking them for almost 3 weeks and I see a huge improvement in his skin! Highly recommend! I will definitely buy again!
5.0 - Works for eczema
Helped with my daughter's antibiotic induced eczema. She's four and she wouldn't swallow them so she had to chew them.
5.0 - Bought this for my son with eczema since they say ...
Bought this for my son with eczema since they say that eczema starts in the gut so a probiotic is what he needed. Since he's been taking these his flares are less.
4.0 - Great help for my 6 year old son!
Within days my 6 year old was telling me that his tummy feels better and he no longer has "sick poo." He's always had issues. We know he's lactose intolerant and we manage it well by avoiding dairy or giving him lactase enzyme with dairy foods. He's tested negative for many other theoretical issues. He still has digestive problems (even with no dairy at all). He also has eczema and recently had a case of erythema multiforme. The poor kid is always dealing with some skin or tummy problem. I finally thought to try something like this and he's feeling so much better! The eczema has been effectively managed for the most part with homemade lotion bars and avoiding SLS in all soap products, but this seems to have helped get rid of the remaining vestiges. I can't believe how quickly it worked. I had prepared him to wait 2-3 months for any results, but he was brighter and happier and singing it's praises in days. Now he reminds me to give one to him each day. I thought at first it was because they might taste like candy but he says they taste gross, he just likes how they make him feel. :) Also he is able to swallow them whole without difficulty, though he is already used to swallowing lactase enzyme pills. These pills are very tiny.
5.0 - Daughter did not have a problem taking them. Kiddo ...
Daughter did not have a problem taking them. Kiddo suffers from severe eczema (4yrs old) . She is a trooper.
5.0 - Makes me feel good that there is something that is actually working to ...
Really helps when my daughter has eczema flare ups. By the next day, I can see a big difference. Makes me feel good that there is something that is actually working to heal her gut.
5.0 - I am so pleased with this product and i recommend it to any ...
We initially bought this product after reading amazon reviews that claimed it cleared up eczema. Our four year old son's legs were unbelievably red and bumpy and nothing under the sun could improve it. We tried absolutely everything so we felt we had nothing to lose. Well not only has his skin remarkably improved after a month, but his appetite has increased and his bowel movements are more regular too! The pearls are super easy for him to swallow and can be chewed too. I am so pleased with this product and i recommend it to any parent struggling to find a remedy for their child's reoccurring eczema.
5.0 - They definitely seem like they're improving her digestion and eczema
My five-year-old daughter can swallow these pills even without water! They definitely seem like they're improving her digestion and eczema. She has had antibiotics about three times a year for antibiotics, so this is really a great addition to restore the healthy bacteria. Thank you!
5.0 - Amazing! Can't say enough.
I can't say enough about this product, I love it! I was looking for something to help my son with his serve eczema. Within a week of taking this I saw a difference in his skin. He's only 4 and a half so he doesn't get the whole swallowing thing so he chews it and it still works great. Love, love, love it!
5.0 - He would scratch at it and they looked horrible and felt bad
My 10 year old son has struggled with eczema on his leg for some time. He would scratch at it and they looked horrible and felt bad. We've been to determologists and paid for multiple creams with no results. He has taken these probiotics for about 5 months and changed nothing else. They are almost completely healed. We are believers in this product.
3.0 - I purhased pro-kids hyperbiotics for my daughter. She complains ...
I purhased pro-kids hyperbiotics for my daughter. She complains of tummy aches from time to time and she suffers from mild eczema. The product came on time well packaged. I thought I would have a hard time for her to swallowed the tiny pill but she did with no problem. My only problem is within a week or so. I noticed that my daughter skin was peeling on her hands and feet; now I'm now sure if it has anything to do with the biotics. I reduce the dosage from everyday to once a week because I read somewhere that I was suppose to gradually increase dosage.
3.0 - Disappointing and difficult for my child to take (he hated the taste)
I bought this for my 4 year old who has eczema. After reading several reviews, this seemed to be the clear winner as far a probiotics for children. Unfortunately, we did not like it. My son hated taking it because he said it "burned his mouth", so every day was a battle when it came time to take this probiotic. It didn't seem to help his eczema at all, so we ended up going back to the previous probiotic that we had been using that seemed to give us better results and also was enjoyable for my son to take. If you'e wondering, we were taking the NOW Berry Dophilus (also purchased on amazon) previous to trying this one. We've gone back to the NOW probiotic and all is well in our world again.
5.0 - Heals Eczema
Two a day of these probiotics healed my 6 year old son's eczema within 1 month. This stuff is fantastic!
5.0 - Five Stars
Seem to be doing Wonders to help clear up my son's severe eczema!
5.0 - ... started taking these as we are attempting to change bad habits in our lives
My 10 year old started taking these as we are attempting to change bad habits in our lives. I've wanted to try a probiotic for years but am overwhelmed by the choices and stores don't always have a "children's" label. Anyway, She has taken them for a couple weeks and has noted feeling better in her tummy. I've heard probiotics might help with eczema, and I have not noticed flare ups in the past 2 weeks. (usually she's always in the middle of a flare up or healing stage).
5.0 - They are slightly sweet so they're a good pill to learn on
Two of my kids struggle with eczema. One tends to blister on the backs of the knees and inner elbows, especially after sweating, and has fingers that blister and peel. The other develops rough bumps and her toes crack until they bleed. This probiotic keeps the eczema in check. No more bloody toes! One a day works for us, and the pills are tiny enough that my daughter started taking them at 5. I put them in a spoonful of applesauce first, and then had her take them alone with water. They are slightly sweet so they're a good pill to learn on. That said, my son dislikes the fact that they have ridge around the middle; he would much prefer them to be perfectly smooth and spherical.
5.0 - Five Stars
Great product, they have made a significant difference in my son’s eczema.
5.0 - Small but mighty and kid approved
Probiotics are a staple in our household. This is because your immune health is dependent on your gut health, and your gut health is impacted in a positive way by taking GOOD probiotics. And not all probiotics are "good." I love that these are sugar-free, but they are also soy, gluten, yeast free and non GMO and they are a great price for a 2 month supply. Worth knowing, they do not have to be refrigerated (although I do store them in the fridge), but you don't have to worry about them not being refrigerated in transit or while traveling. They have helped my son with his eczema and his asthma. My very picky son takes these with no problem. And for those who won't, they are so tiny that you can hide them in practically anything.
2. Probiotic 40 Billion CFU. Guaranteed Potency until Expiration - Patented Delay Release, Shelf Stable - Lactobacillus Acidophilus - Gluten Dairy Free for Women Men - No Refrigeration - Digestive Health
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - Effective product!
I recently had a really bad eczema breakout all over my hands and face. I read that probiotics might help so I decided to give this bottle a shot. It was the most popular and best value probiotic on amazon, hence why I chose it. I was skeptical at first, but on the first day I took it, I stopped itching at night and actually slept like a baby! I was ecstatic since I could finally sleep through the night without slathering hydro-cortisone all over my body. This product does help with my eczema, especially my itching. I also noticed that it has helped with my bloating and I dont get acid reflux anymore. I have this probiotic as my staple now!
5.0 - Best value for probiotics!
I have tried sooooo many different Probiotics ranging from grocery store available ones and EXPENSIVE fancy health food store ones. The BioSchwartz brand Probiotics are not the strongest that I have used, but honestly they are the best value hand down and most effective (probably because I can afford to take them daily lol). After taking these for a few weeks I not only became more regular, but my skin problems like cystic acne and eczema started clearing up. I also have noticed that I am less sensitive to dairy when I take these on a daily basis. I have reordered this product several times on amazon and have never had any issues with the product or shipping. I am so happy I found these!
5.0 - Five Stars
Noticed considerable improvement in facial acne. As well, eczema flare ups seemed to have reduced.
5.0 - Healing
I have severe eczema and one of the items suggested in my regular routine was to add Probiotics. After only a month, I am stunned at the excellent results.
5.0 - Great product!
I had a baby 4 months ago and my gut health has not been the same. My eczema also started flaring up. I started taking this and it's easier to go #2, my eczema is calming down, and I feel overall better. I was surprised at so much benefits with just this one bottle! Very happy!
5.0 - The best probiotics out there
The best probiotics out there..literally cleared up the worst case of eczema.I am a holistic pratitioner and even though my diet is pure I went off the grid on a trip!!I paid the price..and my probiotics were NOT doing the trick..after intense researched I purchased these ..2 weeks later it started to clear..then and staying plant based etc. I am on my second bottle with gorgeous skin once again...your tummy will thank you!!! I will not be without these!!!
5.0 - Great product! I have some skin issues like eczema ...
Great product! I have some skin issues like eczema and it helped prevent future breakouts! It cleared up my skin tremendously and it has only been 3 weeks. Looking forward to seeing how much improvement will show once I finish the bottle. Highly recommended! Thank You!
5.0 - Five Stars
It improve the condition of Eczema!
5.0 - its 10x worse during the summer months
i was suffering with mild eczema, epecially in between my legs, its 10x worse during the summer months, if anyone suffers with eczema, psiorias, or any type of skin rash.. you should know that its directly linked to the gut and digestive tract disorders, its an internal issues that shows up externally on your skin.. so it must be treated both internally and you can use topical cremes for temporary relief until this gets in your system.. you must give it at least 1 month to 2 months for it get in your system. anywho i looked up that probiotics are a must for this.., I came across this one. ive been on this a little more then a month .. and my eczema is clearing up.. !!!!
5.0 - Great Buy!
I've been on 5 antibiotics in 3 months, so my gut flora was destroyed. I felt sickly all the time, especially after eating and even after eating healthy foods. I started getting eczema on my legs and arms, a skin condition I've never had before. I started taking 1 pill a day for a week and then increased to 2 pills a day. I feel so much better. No sickly feelings. Very satisfied! The pill is a small clear capsule filled with a slightly cream-colored powder so if you can't swallow pills, it can be broken and the powder poured into water or applesauce.
4.0 - Helping my body heal
I ordered this probiotic to help in the process of healing a possible candida overgrowth and to improve my overall gut health and immunity. I've been taking this as directed, twice daily for almost 30 days and have seen a significant improvement in my health. Chronic eczema is finally starting to heal and I have more energy throughout the day. I've also managed to stay well even though others in my household have been sick with colds/flu. I would definitely recommend!
5.0 - Helped with eczema
Very high quality, easy to adjust dosage to take more as needed. No refrigeration required. I am a firm believer in taking probiotics. I believe that high doses of probiotics are responsible for clearing up my eczema that I had for years. That was more than 2 years ago and it is still gone with one per day. This probiotic is great.
5.0 - This product truly works!
I have seborrheic dermatitis and eczema on my scalp and face caused by a yeast overgrowth (a result from leaky gut). It flares up often, especially during cooler weather and stressful moments in my life. I have started taking this probiotic almost a month ago and the eczema and dermatitis has cleared nearly 100%! I am very pleased with this product and will definitely continue to take this product to continue to improve my intestinal and overall health.
5.0 - These probiotics in conjunction with eating clean for the last five months have been decreasing my eczema tediously. I recommend this probiotic
I have been using these probiotics for almost a month now in order to boost my immune system and heal my gut. My eczema has been clearing faster because of this. These probiotics in conjunction with eating clean for the last five months have been decreasing my eczema tediously. I recommend this probiotic, its affordable and not full of fillers.
5.0 - I love this product
I love this product. Not only have I been well throughout the flue season (I work at a school), I have been regular too. I also have eczema and it has improved. Thanks for boost in my health!
3. Dr. Tobias CandidaFX - Extra Strength Candida Cleanse - With Herbs & Enzymes To Help Reduce Unpleasant Effects from Die-Off of Yeast - Easy & Effective Nutritional Supplement For Women And Men
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
3.0 - Change your diet first AND THEN try this
I was having issues with reoccurring yeast infections for quite some time. I have tried quite a few supplements but not much has actually helped me. My symptoms are not too bad (4/10 on discomfort level some days). I occasionally get itchy and my discharge is cottage-cheese like some days. Despite my pH hovering around 4.0 (highest 4.5), I still have the issues. I took this product to see if it will help with yeast related issues like yeast overgrowth (which I probably had due to years of fighting off eczema). I haven't seen too many changes with this product, but I will take it for the full 2 months before I give my final verdict. I didn't get yeast overgrowth in 2 weeks so I don't expect it to resolve quickly.
5.0 - Worth every cent!
This product has been amazing. First bottle is finished and i lost 22 lbs in 30 days! My eczema that has been so uncontrollable for years is now clearing up! My skin tags on my nexk disappeared and my skin is remarkably clear. My cons were the constipation, headaches were relentless at first and i had a body odor for awhile that my hubby wasnt to fond of but it passed within a week. Just ordered my 2nd bottle, will update.
4.0 - Product Contains Gluten
I took this for a short time. I experienced a gluten reaction (stomach pain, eczema flare up) after taking the product. The seller refunded me when I contacted them. They offer 100% guarantee on all of their products & want their customers to be happy. It is unfortunate that I had to stop taking the product as it appeared to be working.
5.0 - Only 2 weeks in
I purchased this product. I've only been taking this for 2 weeks. The first thing I noticed was fewer sugar cravings. I don't know how it's possible, but I wanted less sugar! Secondly, a small itchy area on my arm cleared up. I honestly think this product would benefit those with skin issues or eczema. I can't comment on any other product benefits at this time, just the two above (which is great for me). I will keep taking this since it helps with sugar cravings and clears up my skin. Perhaps I'll be able to post an update to the benefits once I use it for a longer timeframe.
5.0 - A Miracle! But Wait! Combo with Deep Immune Probiotics for Superhuman Gut Health!
I love Dr. Tobias products and my Primary Care Physician agrees it is a great formula - we use it in combination with the Dr. Tobias CandidaFx Cleanse. 4 weeks on the probiotics then 2 weeks on the Candida (which also has probiotics) - this keeps my husband and I from sharing yeast - gross I know but our doctor explained that yes that can happen. As a 32 year old woman, my health has increased dramatically regarding itching, acne, and eczema as well as healing constipation and bloating!
5.0 - Glad I went with this product instead
I was having eczema related to a candida overgrowth, and my skin cleared up very quickly between the CandidaFX supplement and a strict diet. Prior to using CandidaFX, I was using other supplements but saw a plateau in its progress. Glad I went with this product instead.
4.0 - Four Stars
Used for 2 weeks. Improved my eczema. Gut health seems optimal
5.0 - Forever please...
I loved this product. I had constant BC AND YEAST problems this helped eradicate it in only a few days. It also has been helping my eczema to not be flared up. Not sure if I’m being crazy or it’s really helping.
5.0 - Took away my rash
I've had a terrible eczema type rash all over my body for months. After starting this it has drastically made it better. I'm so happy I tried this
5.0 - Helps
It is a very good product which is easy on the stomach. It has helped clear up my son's eczema.
5.0 - Great Product!
I've been taking this for almost 3 weeks now. It seems to help clear the eczema on my face. It's not completely gone, but it's cleared up about 75% of it.
4.0 - Bye bye inflammation
Can't give it 5 stars, as I have completed two months on this. I'm on day 24, and the inflammation in my right hand(dr said it was hives or eczema) has disappeared. And, I use to have a strange flushing in my hands, that has gone away, as well. Can't tell for certain if Candida FX is the answer, but I think it is.
5.0 - I have battled a skin condition for about 3 years ...
I have battled a skin condition for about 3 years. I had been incorrectly treating it as eczema. Upon further research I identified it as a yeast infection and upon taking this product for just 3 weeks I am seeing marked improvement.
4. Nature's Way EfaGold Evening Primrose, Cold Pressed Oil 1300mg, 120 Softgels
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - Great for Eczema
I purchased after reading an article that mentioned this as an anti-itch treatment for Eczema- I have been VERY pleased with the results. An opened capsule of evening primrose oil relieves my eczema related itching within moments- much faster than hydrocortisone cream with none of the problems long term use of medicated anti-itch creams can cause.
3.0 - Helps somewhat. Not a lot but unmistakeable improvement.
This definitely helps with mild eczema or psoriasis. It takes regular use for a few days to start to show results but it does improve skin.
5.0 - Helped relieve menstrual issues and eczema
I used to have very severe menstrual cramps, heavy bleeding for five of six days every cycle. Taking the Evening Oil of Primrose everyday seems to have helped. I no longer have severe cramps and my periods seem to go faster, only last 3-4 days.
5.0 - Beat my eczema.
It is best product that deal with my eczema so far. Look at the picture. I just take it for one month. I visited doctor and he told me you can not reply on any lotion or serum that can heal your eczema. He told me omega 6 and omega 9 is essential element that can relief it and it is.
5.0 - Love it
I love EPO! Definitely helps my acne and people always comment on how clear and bright my skin is looking lately. I believe it has also helped the eczema on my elbow as it hasn't been bothering me since I started taking it again.
5.0 - Forget expensive skin creams, start taking evening primrose oil to have amazing skin!...along with a ton of other benefits.
Evening primrose oil is amazing stuff. I had spent countless hours researching supplements and foods to help support female health, primarily relating to regaining/maintaining hormonal balance and breast health. The more I read about evening primrose oil, it began to sound like the "female miracle pill" to solve pretty much any issue going on. You can read all about it in length on various websites and how it is used for hormonal balance, PMS-related symptoms, migraines, menopause, etc. It also is listed to help with many skin conditions such as eczema, acne, and rosacea. I didn't suffer from any of those (except of course, I am not perfect and have had minor acne occasionally) but I will state that after a week or so of regularly taking this product I could visibly see a positive change in my face/skin. It just sort of radiated and looked more youthful and glowing and just overall nicer. And though I never had much of an acne problem, since taking this pills (for almost a year now), I have absolutely clear skin 99% of that time. And oooh boy those few times I got a few blemishes I was upset! How dare you body, I thought we had an agreement as long as I fed you delicious Nature's Way Evening primerose oil!! ;) In my opinion, everyone (esp. every female) should take evening primrose oil. I recommend this product (it's the one and only I've ever taken) because no one researches more than I do and I am confident I settled on the best product out there to deliver the goodness this plant provides. As far as read, getting a cold-press extracted product is very important to ensure quality and effectiveness.
5.0 - Great for relief of eczema symptoms!!!
I have had eczema my entire life. It has really flared up on my hands the last year and a half or so. Steroid cream is the only thing that helps. This is not a solution because steroids aren't for long term use, and anything topical on the hands consistently gets washed off. I tried this product as a "last resort" before going on an oral medication. Within a few days I have had about 80% improvement. It's incredible!
4.0 - Good for my PMS
I purchased this product to heal my dry itchy eczema skin.
5.0 - Five Stars
Helps my eczema!
5.0 - Evening Primrose Oil is miracle for hormonal mood swings, breakouts, and other PMS symptoms! Get it!
Evening Primrose Oil has always been my go-to supplement for hormonal issues such as PMS, skin breakouts, eczema, and even mild depression. Look up information about EPO's serotonin support. It doesn't replace depression medication that your doctor prescribes, and it shouldn't be taken in conjunction with SSRIs, but it does give a lift when mild mood swings and anxiety are concerns. I love what this does for my skin when I'm taking it twice a day. It keeps it moisturized, soft and smooth, and breakout free. Meanwhile, it all but prevents the horrible cramps I'm often subjected to each month. Always buy EPO that is "cold-pressed" only. Even if a product says "Hexane-free," it only means that enough of the chemical has been eliminated to be considered "free" of hexane. Better to avoid that and go cold-pressed. Nature's Way is an absolutely wonderful company and I've used many of their supplements over the years. TRY this EPO if you are struggling with any of the issues I mentioned above.
4.0 - I was wondering if it was all in my head, but your bras don't lie!!!!
I started taking this the day they arrived for severe pms symptoms. I do not know yet if I will see a difference when my "exorcist" session starts this month, but I will try to update whether it helped or not with my symptoms. What I have noticed though is that my boobs grew a little, I am an A cup and it is AMAZING how my boobs look this full and firm after only three days of use. I was wondering if it was all in my head, but your bras don't lie!!!!It is a side effect that i welcome happily :). another plus I have noticed is how my skin is now glowing!! I have eczema and have to stay away from dairy as much as I can (except I looove yogurt and milk) and i have seen where my outbreaks have calmed down in only three days. "My backne" that I started getting early this year have calmed down! MY husband was surprised!I would definitely recommend this product, however I am still waiting to see if it will cure me from my monthly exorcist sessions. OH, and if you already have a high libido, I would definitely not take the maximum dosage. take it from my experience. lol, unless it is a good thing for you to want to do the dirty 24/7.
5. NOW Super Primrose 1300 mg,60 Softgels
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - I have used their essential oils for years along with vitamins and I've always been pleased. I take this for my eczema and for .
NOW is always a supplement brand that I can trust. Their supplements are high quality and worth it. I have used their essential oils for years along with vitamins and I've always been pleased. I take this for my eczema and for my hair. It's gives my skin more moisture from the inside out and also helps a lot with PMS & other women's health issues. I take 3 a day with meals. The capsule is on the larger end but take them with warm water and you get used to it. If not, squeeze them into your mouth and drink some orange juice after to clear the taste. I even squeeze a capsule and put it on my face for a nighttime moisturizer before bed to help with my dryness. Great product!
2.0 - Two Stars
The capsule is pretty huge, too hard on my body also this will not help with eczema
2.0 - Not as good for eczema as other Evening Primrose Oils.
When I have an eczema outbreak, I take evening primrose oil and it goes away very quickly. This one has not made it go away as quickly as other evening primrose oils I've bought in the past.
5.0 - You Can't Go Wrong...
Great product! I have been using Super Primrose for years after my doctor recommend using it to help with PMS...I love it! I also noticed that my eczema cleared up as well and prior to using Primrose Oil I had not had much success with any other product that really worked including prescription.
5.0 - Ladies, do yourself a favor and buy this!
I am so happy I found out about Primrose oil! I had killer PMS cramps, mood swings and fatigue. This product changed all of that. I now take one a day for maintenance and to help with eczema flair ups and two daily that time of the month.
5.0 - The many benefits of evening primrose oil.
Evening primrose oil (EPO for short) does not get the attention it rightfully deserves. Many women have heard of or used evening primrose oil, as it is anecdotally famous for alleviating PMS and menopause symptoms, though most clinical trials have shown no scientific evidence of this. Evening primrose oil, as it sounds, is the oil that comes from the seed of the evening primrose plant, which is native to Europe and North America. It has been said to also be an effective treatment for psoriasis, eczema, and arthritis, among other things. Early Native Americans recognized and utilized the healing properties of the plant for many ailments.
5.0 - I can't take the oil internally because it caused me ...
I can't take the oil internally because it caused me to have an upset stomach. However, it works well topically on eczema.
5.0 - Calling all women over 45!!!!
All I can say is, if you are female over the age of 45, this is a must have to your supplement list. I take this everyday. It is a miracle drug for PMS and my sensitive skin. but Shhhhhhhhh don't tell the government they will make it so you need a prescription and charge 10x the amount LMAO. Amazing something so harmless and natural can help so much. Cramps, breast ache, hot flashes, you name it! I also notice serious benefits to my skin issues. I have mild eczema sometimes and when I am taking this regularly .......no signs of it at all.
6. NOW Super Primrose 1300 mg,120 Softgels
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - I have used their essential oils for years along with vitamins and I've always been pleased. I take this for my eczema and for .
NOW is always a supplement brand that I can trust. Their supplements are high quality and worth it. I have used their essential oils for years along with vitamins and I've always been pleased. I take this for my eczema and for my hair. It's gives my skin more moisture from the inside out and also helps a lot with PMS & other women's health issues. I take 3 a day with meals. The capsule is on the larger end but take them with warm water and you get used to it. If not, squeeze them into your mouth and drink some orange juice after to clear the taste. I even squeeze a capsule and put it on my face for a nighttime moisturizer before bed to help with my dryness. Great product!
2.0 - Not as good for eczema as other Evening Primrose Oils.
When I have an eczema outbreak, I take evening primrose oil and it goes away very quickly. This one has not made it go away as quickly as other evening primrose oils I've bought in the past.
5.0 - You Can't Go Wrong...
Great product! I have been using Super Primrose for years after my doctor recommend using it to help with PMS...I love it! I also noticed that my eczema cleared up as well and prior to using Primrose Oil I had not had much success with any other product that really worked including prescription.
5.0 - Calling all women over 45!!!!
All I can say is, if you are female over the age of 45, this is a must have to your supplement list. I take this everyday. It is a miracle drug for PMS and my sensitive skin. but Shhhhhhhhh don't tell the government they will make it so you need a prescription and charge 10x the amount LMAO. Amazing something so harmless and natural can help so much. Cramps, breast ache, hot flashes, you name it! I also notice serious benefits to my skin issues. I have mild eczema sometimes and when I am taking this regularly .......no signs of it at all.
5.0 - Ladies, do yourself a favor and buy this!
I am so happy I found out about Primrose oil! I had killer PMS cramps, mood swings and fatigue. This product changed all of that. I now take one a day for maintenance and to help with eczema flair ups and two daily that time of the month.
5.0 - The many benefits of evening primrose oil.
Evening primrose oil (EPO for short) does not get the attention it rightfully deserves. Many women have heard of or used evening primrose oil, as it is anecdotally famous for alleviating PMS and menopause symptoms, though most clinical trials have shown no scientific evidence of this. Evening primrose oil, as it sounds, is the oil that comes from the seed of the evening primrose plant, which is native to Europe and North America. It has been said to also be an effective treatment for psoriasis, eczema, and arthritis, among other things. Early Native Americans recognized and utilized the healing properties of the plant for many ailments.
2.0 - Two Stars
The capsule is pretty huge, too hard on my body also this will not help with eczema
5.0 - I can't take the oil internally because it caused me ...
I can't take the oil internally because it caused me to have an upset stomach. However, it works well topically on eczema.
7. Now Foods Vitamin D-3 Full Body Cream, 4 Ounce
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
3.0 - D-3 Cream and Eczema
It helps to soothe, but it is not the end all to prevent. One cream cannot handle the varieties of eczema out there.
5.0 - like it.
my eczema was gone in three days. try many cream before but this one is real eczema cream. my skin texture get improved too. not greasy and fast absorb.
5.0 - great treatment for keratosis pilaris
My doctor recommended this for keratosis pilaris. A type of eczema that causes bumps all over my arms and is also called chicken skin. This is the only thing I have found that actually works. I use it in conjunction with Emu Oil and it's working wonders. It's non scented and would be a great moisturizer in general. Love this stuff.
5.0 - Happy
Happy with this :) nice thick yummy melting lotion! It got rid of my sons eczema rash quickly also!
5.0 - Great for eczema
This cream is thick and provides long-lasting moisture and comfort. It can help clear up my child'S eczema patches overnight.
5.0 - I actually bought this stuff to help boost my daughters ...
I actually bought this stuff to help boost my daughters vitamin D levels. When I put it on her arms, I would rub it into my hands where I happened to have eczema. Literally over night it began to improve significantly. In a week it was gone. I gave some to my friend whose daughter has had severe eczema for over 4 years. She has been to several doctors, been on several prescription creams, to no avail. One week after starting on this cream it is 90% gone. It is truly miraculous.
5.0 - Five Stars
This cream is wonderful, great for eczema, especially! Arrived on time and great condition! Am pleased!
8. Organic Neem Oil (8 oz), 100% Pure Cold Press, Unrefined- 6 Sizes, Best Prices (NEW LOOK)
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - I love the recipes and labeling
I love the recipes and labeling. I use this in a soap i make and in my triple Butter used for a child family members eczema.
3.0 - It's good product I just don't think I'll be able to ...
I bought this neem oil for my hair because i have scalp psoriasis and dry hair that soaks up any kind of oil. I have been using this last two days and it seems to be working really well for my hair. On the flip side of that, I think I might be allergic to it at least my skin. I have eczema and I have noticed now that both my arms are now red and bumpy and itchy and I've only applied product to my hands so I can put it in my hair. It's good product I just don't think I'll be able to use it if this whats making me break out.
5.0 - Does what it says
Struggle with psoriasis and eczema. I also managed to catch a bug cleaning out an apt
5.0 - Very Impressed!
I am surprised that some people don't appreciate the way neem oil smells. I think it smells lovely -- sort of a healthy, nutty odor, and subtle at that. I initially put a few drops straight onto my face, but it didn't absorb quickly enough (like it apparently does for others) and left a bit of a of shine on my face. (Maybe not good for a morning application, but this would be fine at night.) The next time, I mixed 2 drops of neem oil in with my face lotion and that worked great. The moisturizing properties are tremendous -- my skin just drank it up! I have read quite a bit about the benefits of neem oil and was both intrigued and anxious to try it out. One of my coworkers suffers from eczema on her hands, and I shared some of my neem oil with her. (She loved it!) A little goes a very long way, which is kind of surprising because it has a very rich consistency. I guess I expected it to "drag" a little, but it glides and covers very smoothly. I know there are a LOT of uses for neem oil (i.e. an insect repellent, a scalp conditioner, etc.), but I purchased this solely for the skin on my face. So far, so (very) good!
2.0 - Breaks you out
2 stars because I bought it to moisturize my hair and I can say it does just that but the smell is pungent and it broke me out. Sis says it smells like coffee I say it smells. Used it a few times and I probably won't use it again. First time my sister used it she said it made her scalp itch. I then noticed that it was breaking me out. Got tiny bumps all over my forehead and cheeks. The bumps are small but many. Going to was my hair and pillow cases, gotta find another purpose for this thing. I seen it be recommended for eczema but tbh I wouldn't recommend putting it anywhere on your body where pimples and zits can form. Actually it has a bad smell so if you do apply it to maybe your legs and arms, you might wanna add something that smells good.
5.0 - Cleared baby's eczema
It's amazing after 1 whole year dealing with my 1 year old sons eczema it's cleared up with this oil!!! I put it behind his knees, elbows and back. I don't apply to his face since it says it can sting. I use Tamanu oil on his face instead. After so much struggle my baby finally has a clear face.
5.0 - Everybody hates it but I love it. My daughter who was eczema loves it
Everybody hates it but I love it. My daughter who was eczema loves it. Will be ordering more in the future.
9. Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides (20 oz) - Pasture-Raised, Grass-Fed, Hydrolyzed - Paleo, Keto, Whole30, Gluten-Free
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
2.0 - Not exactly tasteless
I bought this to help alleviate my eczema, which I feel it started to help. However, I only used it for a week. I had to stop because I couldn't handle the taste. While it definitely has a muted scent and taste, it's the after taste that I could not handle, despite any benefits. I felt like gagging after every sip and had to coach myself to get it down, so I gave up on this. I tried it with hot coffee, mango nectar, tea, and smoothies, but all of them couldn't mask the gag-inducing after taste. Though I knew it had a bovine source, I couldn't place the taste until I looked at the ingredients: bovine skin. Suddenly, I realized the after taste is subtle leather...which made it taste like I was sucking on an old boot, because, well, I was! Bleh! I'm glad I only bought the trial-size.
5.0 - Five Stars
really amazing. helped with my sons eczema
5.0 - Game-changer!
I've been using Vital Proteins for a little over two weeks (adding it to my morning keto coffee), and I can already see a drastic difference in my skin. I have always battled dry skin, and most recently, eczema. In just two weeks' time, my skin looks and feels entirely different. The fine lines on my forehead have even begin to fill in. Lifelong fan!
5.0 - Amazingly soft skin, healthy nails, thicker hair, easy protein source on the go!
I'm almost 57 years old and have been using this product for 6 months it was recommended by my niece, who began using it on Whole 30 over a year ago. I have had no negative reactions, but I use only one scoop in my coffee once or twice a day. My thinning hair is much thicker and there is less hair fallout each morning. I actually have more new hair growth at the crown. My skin is very soft and laugh lines around my eyes appear less noticeable. I have eczema on my hands and it has lessened, seldom appears, now. Vital Proteins dissolves in coffee completely. It is tasteless. I have not gotten a bad batch, but will be cautious, since others have mentioned it.
5.0 - Excellent product--Can be used in Baking.
I love this produce! I've used protein powders before but this is by far the best. There is no grit, no weird taste, it adds no bulk or flavor. It literally melts in any liquid. I started using it to help heal my gut, but noticed many other improvements. My skin--which has always been dry and prone to eczema--is clear, smooth and no longer dry. Even my heels which typically crack in the winter, did not crack at all this winter! My hair is much much softer and is growing great. When I started, I put this into tea morning and night. I quickly discovered I could put it into baked goods. I dissolve it in the liquid of whatever I'm baking (biscuits!!!!) and it works great--no extra bulk, no need to change the recipe, no weird taste. This is an amazing product. Thanks you Vital Proteins!!!
5.0 - worried about taste or smell...
i am pregnant & have had a lot of aversions to smells and tastes (especially meaty ones), so i was a bit worried that my hyperactive senses would make it impossible for me to enjoy this product. but i have been having pretty bad dry skin & eczema with my pregnancy, and my acupuncturist suggested collagen supplements since i just can't handle my normal regimen of bone broth right now.
5.0 - Love this product
Love this product. I add to my smoothies every morning. I think it has made my hair better and my eczema breakouts. You can't even taste in smoothies. Packaging is a little bit annoying to open.
10. Jarrow Formulas Evening Primrose, Supports Women's Health, 1300 Mg, 60 Softgels
View this supplement on Amazon.com →
5.0 - Excellent quality, albeit large in size
Evening primrose oil is a natural source of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) and has been trusted for its ability to provide nutritional support for women. In particular, it helps with premenstrual syndrome and dry skin conditions such as eczema. It has been a constant staple for the ladies in the family. This Jarrow oil is cold pressed from evening primrose seeds and free of solvent residue (hexane). The quality seems great. The only caveat is that these are pretty large softgels. They can be hard to manage if you're not used to swallowing large pills.
5.0 - Five Stars
helps with eczema rash like magic.
5.0 - Rich in Omega-6
I've been taking this for years - it's a good source of the lesser-known omega 6 fatty acids, which you need to balance out any omega 3's you may be getting from fish oil or flax seed oil. These fatty acids are the building blocks for your cells, especially your brain cells. Evening primrose oil is also said to be helpful to prevent eczema rashes, along with a nutritious diet. Jarrow is a high-quality brand.
5.0 - Would buy again. Great provider.
Good for psoriasis, eczema and other skin related dramas. My elbows used to feel dry and white. Not anymore. Also excessive oil in my face disminished. Very happy with this easy-on-the-budget supplement.
5.0 - Great for regulating hormones
This stuff is amazing for hormonal acne. I used to be on the pill, which eliminated my awful hormonal acne that was all over my back. It is extremely embarrassing to have back acne, especially for a teen (now adult) girl. However, due to the pill giving me ridiculous mood swings, I got off of it and switched to Mirena, a hormonal IUD. This thing destroyed my skin. My acne came back in full force plus a bit more, along with patches of eczema to boot. I researched ages on how to fix this, battling the same tiring, emotion-destroying battle I fought before the pill. I finally decided to try Evening Primrose Oil. I started with 1300 mg a day taken at night, and that did nothing. I then started taking two pills, 2600 mg, and that had noticeable effects, but not entirely where I wanted to be. I now take three pills, 3900 mg, a day, and it truly works. This isn't a miracle by any means, and I still get a few bumps around my period, but it is a million times better than what it used to be. 3900 mg seems like a lot, but it's what works, and I'm not stopping any time soon.
3.0 - Almost good enough
This product is ok. The EPO itself seems pretty good. It didn't work for my very sensitive son though. EPO is supposed to help him with his eczema, but this somehow made him slightly worse. Probably because it's not organic. Appreciate the "hexane free" part though.
Loading ...
Suggested searches: acne ADD ADHD AIDS allergies alopecia alzheimers anxiety arthritis asthma autism back pain balding binge eating bipolar BPH cancer carpal tunnel cataracts cholesterol chronic fatigue cold colitis cravings crohns depression eczema epilepsy erectile dysfunction fibromyalgia flu gastritis GERD hair loss hangover happiness heart disease heartburn hepatitis herpes HIV hypertension IBS-C IBS-D IBS kidney stones knee pain lymphoma melanoma memory menopause migraines OCD osteoporosis panic attacks parkinson's PMS prostate prostitis psoriasis restless leg syndrome RLS sleep apnea stiff joints stress ulcers varicose veins vertigo weight loss wrinkles