15 Best Food & Fruits to Increase Hemoglobin Level in Blood Fast
Remedies CureNatural Home Remedies for Better Health
Home
Beauty & Looks
Men Health
Women Health
Pregnancy
Diet & Nutrition
Pain Cures
Hair
Remedies Cure
Home
Beauty & Looks
Men Health
Women Health
Pregnancy
Diet & Nutrition
Pain Cures
Hair
Health Tips
15 Best Food & Fruits to Increase Hemoglobin Level in Blood Fast
1 month ago
How to increase Hemoglobin? Hemoglobin is a type of protein presents in red blood cells which contain a high amount of iron. Hemoglobin carries oxygen to the parts of body tissue and cells. It also carries carbon dioxide away from the body cells and tissue. Hemoglobin also provides energy to the body. Change in hemoglobin level can be dangerous.
If you have a low level of hemoglobin it can lead to you to many health issues like anemia, pale skin, weakness, headache, loss of appetite, dizziness, nausea, high blood pressure etc. There are many health problems which can cause you low level of hemoglobin such as diabetes, pregnancy, menstruation, iron deficiency, vitamin deficiency, kidney disease etc. you can prevent low level of hemoglobin by changing your diet. There are many Fruits and foods to increase hemoglobin level.
How to increase Hemoglobin
Contents
1 What is the normal hemoglobin level?
1.1 What Causes Low Level of Hemoglobin?
1.2 What Cause You High Level of Hemoglobin?
1.3 Symptoms of Hemoglobin Deficiency
2 Foods & Fruits to Increase Blood Hemoglobin Level
2.1 When hemoglobin is low what to eat?
2.2 Increase Iron Intake to Boost Haemoglobin Level in Week
2.3 Consume Vitamin C to Increase Hemoglobin Level in 7 days
2.4 Exercise to Increase Hemoglobin Level Quickly
2.5 Avoid Iron Blocker to Get Rid Low Level of Hemoglobin
2.6 When to See a Doctor for Low Hemoglobin Level?
What is the normal hemoglobin level?
Hemoglobin is a very important part of blood and helps to maintain the oxygen level in the body. It can be measured by a simple blood test. It is also referred to as Hb and measure in grams per deciliter (g/dL) of blood. The normal level of hemoglobin for men, 13.5 to 17.5g/dl and for women, 12.0 to 15.5 g/dl. For children, the normal level of hemoglobin depends on age and sex. Normal hemoglobin level may vary from one medical practice another.
What Causes Low Level of Hemoglobin?
Low level of hemoglobin than normal level of hemoglobin is clear indication anemia. Low level of hemoglobin means when Hb level is below 13.5 g/dl for men and 12.0 g/dl for women. There are many types of anemia which include.
Iron deficiency anemia– This is a very common type of anemia. It normally occurs because of iron deficiency in the body. Iron deficiency anemia is generally caused by blood loss and not enough iron intake in the body. If someone had gastric bypass surgery then chances of having anemia increases multiple times.
Vitamin Deficiency – It also occurs due to the low amount of vitamin in the body. Vitamin Deficiency anemia changes blood cell shapes which may lead to a serious health issue.
Pregnancy-Related Anemia– During pregnancy and childbirth, a woman needs a high amount of iron in the body. In pregnancy-related anemia you may suffer from iron deficiency.
Aplastic Anemia- This type of anemia occurs because of immunity system attacks on stem cells on the bone marrow. Stem cells are used for forming blood cells.
There are other health problems which can occur because of anemia such as kidney problem, hypothyroidism, bleeding, folate deficiency, thalassemia, and liver disease etc.
What Cause You High Level of Hemoglobin?
High level of hemoglobin is equally dangerous as low level. When a man has Hb level more than 17.5 g/dl and a woman more than 15.5 g/dl is considered as the high level of hemoglobin. It can cause you may health problem which include.
Polycythemia- A very rare blood disease which can be fatal. It leads to stroke, heart attack, and blood clots.
Lung Disease
Dehydration
Heavy smoking
Excessive vomiting
Extreme physical exercise can cause you a high level of hemoglobin.
Symptoms of Hemoglobin Deficiency
Low level of hemoglobin symptoms include.
Fast Heartbeat
Weakness and dizziness
A headache
Yellow or pale skin
Chest pain
Organ failure
Shortness of breath
Bloody stool
Vomiting
Ringing sound in ears
Numbness
Hair loss
Memory loss
Foods & Fruits to Increase Blood Hemoglobin Level
Many people search and curious about foods which can help them to increase Hb level in blood. Iron deficiency is a very common cause of low hemoglobin level which can be recovered by eating iron-rich foods. The recovery time of low hemoglobin depends on the causes and level of hemoglobin in the blood. Increase the intake of following foods to increase hemoglobin level.
When hemoglobin is low what to eat?
Beetroots
Beetroot is very effective increasing hemoglobin level fast. It contains high amount of iron, needful nutrients and minerals. Beetroot also contains folic acid which helps in red blood cell production.
Drink 2 glass of fresh beetroot juice daily to increase Hb level. You can see the difference in seven days only.
You can also add beetroot in in your diet as a salad.
Extract juice from one beetroot, 2 carrots and 1 sweet potato. Drink this juice once in a day to see the change in hemoglobin level.
Eat More Almonds
Almonds are a good source of iron and useful nutrients. It helps to purify blood and also increase hemoglobin count in blood.
Take 7-8 almonds and soak them in water for overnight. Eat them in the morning daily. Eating almonds daily in the morning also prevent memory loss.
Read: Loss of Appetite Causes & Risk Factor
Drink Nettle Tea
Nettle herb is rich in vitamin B, iron, vitamin C which can help you increase your hemoglobin.
Take two teaspoons of dried nettle leaves and add in a cup of hot water. Let it steep for 5 minutes and then strain the mixture. You can add honey to it if you don’t like the taste. Drink this nettle tea twice in a day.
Eat Apples
As they say, an apple can keep you away from the doctor and also help in raising your hemoglobin level. It contains a high amount of iron and other useful nutrients.
Eat an apple daily. If possible go for green apple and eat with its skin.
Alternatively, prepare a glass of juice of apple, beetroot and lemon or ginger. Take half glass of juice from apple and half glass from beetroot. Mix them well and add a little lemon or ginger juice. Drink one glass of this mixed juice daily.
Pomegranate
Pomegranate is ultimate Hemoglobin Rich Fruit to increase hemoglobin. It contains protein, iron, calcium and carbohydrates which help to boost your hemoglobin level quickly. This fruit also helps to maintain healthy blood in the body.
Drink one glass of pomegranate juice daily with your breakfast.
You can also eat one pomegranate daily with your breakfast.
You can also consume 2 tablespoons powder of dried pomegranate seeds with milk. Take this remedy daily to raise your blood hemoglobin.
Eat Dates
Dates are a good food to increase hemoglobin level for people of every age. It contains iron, calcium, potassium, magnesium, Vitamin A & B. which help to boost hemoglobin in blood and also increase the blood flow in the body. Eating dates are also good for a pregnant woman.
Spinach
Spinach leafy vegetable is a good source of iron which helps to fight anemia and to Maintain Hemoglobin Level In Blood. Along with iron spinach contains several vitamin A, B, C and E. It also has folic acid, calcium, magnesium, and potassium.
You can eat raw spinach in a salad or boiled or cooked.
Extract one glass juice from spinach leaves and add one teaspoon of honey. You can also add a pinch of black pepper in it and mix well. Drink this natural remedy once in a day.
Blackstrap Molasses
One of the natural remedy to fight with anemia and increase hemoglobin level in blood. Blackstrap is a thick extract from sugarcane. It contains iron, folic acid, Vitamin B, magnesium, potassium and other important nutrition.
Take 2 teaspoons of apple cider vinegar and 2 teaspoons of blackstrap molasses. Add them to one glass of water and mix properly. Now drink this remedy once in a day.
Watermelon
Watermelon is very delicious food which helps to boost your immunity and hemoglobin level in blood. It contains many nutrients along with iron and vitamins. It also helps to get rid of dehydration and maintain the water level in your body.
Eat one bowl of watermelon in the morning with breakfast.
You can also drink watermelon juice daily.
Eat More Meat
Meat is a very good source of iron which can help to raise your hemoglobin level. Eat more red meat especially because it contains a high amount of iron compared to white meat. Different parts of meat contain different amount of iron. So concentrate more on lamb liver, ground beef, and breasts of chicken.
Mulberries Fruit
Mulberries are also a good source of iron and several vitamins. It helps to boost the hemoglobin level in blood. This fruit is also good for a diabetic person.
Eat a bowl of mulberries daily with breakfast or evening snacks.
Pumpkin Seeds
Pumpkin seeds are also known as chia seeds which is the best food to increase hemoglobin level. In fact, 100 g of pumpkin seeds contains 15 mg of iron. Pumpkin seeds also contain fatty acids which are a good remedy for your skin.
Eat raw pumpkin seeds daily or add to your salad.
Lentils
Lentils are the type of pulse which contains many essential nutrients. It contains iron, protein, folic acid, potassium, and manganese. Add lentils to your diet to boost hemoglobin level.
Eat More Nuts
Nuts are a good source of iron, protein and fatty acid. They help to improve your immunity system and blood circulation your body. Eating nuts daily also helps to fight anemia or low hemoglobin level in blood. You can eat Almonds, peanuts, pine nuts, hazelnuts, cashew nuts, walnuts etc.
Brown Rice
Brown rice is a good source of iron. Instead of eating white rice, go for brown. Eat a bowl of brown rice daily for lunch or dinner is a good way to fight anemia and increase hemoglobin level.
Increase Iron Intake to Boost Haemoglobin Level in Week
Iron deficiency is the major cause of low haemoglobin level or anemia. Increasing iron intake can help to get rid of the low level of haemoglobin. You can also take an iron supplement but consult with your doctor first.
Foods which contain a high amount of iron includes.
Red Meat
Tofu
Spinach
Almonds
Dates
Eggs
Peas
Avocado
Kidney beans
Consume Vitamin C to Increase Hemoglobin Level in 7 days
Vitamin C is very important to absorb iron in your body which helps to increase blood hemoglobin level. Eat more food which contains vitamin C. You can also add vitamin A rich food in your diet because it also helps to absorb iron.
Food rich in vitamin C Includes
Papaya
Strawberries
Lemon
Oranges
Broccoli
Grapefruit
Tomato
Spinach
Exercise to Increase Hemoglobin Level Quickly
Regular exercise is very important for your body to work properly. It helps to increase hemoglobin production and maintain the oxygen level in the body. You can do low intensity to high-intensity exercise or aerobics. Make sure you do perform physical exercise under the supervision of a trainer.
Avoid Iron Blocker to Get Rid Low Level of Hemoglobin
There many foods which reduce the ability to absorb iron in your body. So avoid these foods if you have a low level of iron.
Coffee
Alcohol
Tea
Beer
Wine
Dairy Products
Calcium Supplement
Soybean
Figs
When to See a Doctor for Low Hemoglobin Level?
Low hemoglobin can be a serious health issue and sometimes it cannot be cured by foods and natural remedies. So if you see any symptoms of pale skin, gum bleeding, frequent headache, fast heartbeat or restless leg syndrome etc. Consult with your doctor and get proper treatment.
Hemoglobin is a complex type of protein which is found in red blood cell. It is a very important part of the blood which helps to carry oxygen in the body. Low or high level of haemoglobin can cause many serious health issues. If you don’t have any serious health condition and your hemoglobin is low then change your diet to increase haemoglobin level. Eat iron-rich foods and fruits to raise hemoglobin level.
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
food to increase blood food to increase hemoglobin fruits to increase hemoglobin How to Increase Hemoglobin Level how to increase hemoglobin quickly increase hemoglobin in week what is the normal hemoglobin level
You may also like
Health Tips • Natural Remedies
How to Increase Memory Power : 18 Home Remedies &...
Health Tips • Natural Remedies
How to Stop Farting Fast : 10 Natural Ways for Gas...
Health Tips
How Long Do Hemorrhoids Last? If Untreated When to See...
Health Tips • Sign & Causes
10 Loss of Appetite Causes Risk Factor & When to...
Health Tips • Natural Remedies
How to Remove a Tattoo at Home Naturally : 10 Best Ways
Health Tips
How to Make Yourself Sneeze : 10 Easy & Safest...
Leave a Comment X
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Categories
Beauty & Looks
Dental Cure
Diet & Nutrition
Disease
Exercises & Yoga
Eyes
Hair
Health Tips
Men Health
Natural Remedies
Pain Cures
Pregnancy
Sign & Causes
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Women Health
Copyright © 2019.
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
About Us
Sitemap
Contact Us
error: Content is protected !!