What Are the Benefits of Using Vitamin E on the Face? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
What Are the Benefits of Using Vitamin E on the Face?
Sarah Harding
About the Author:
Sarah Harding
Sarah Harding has written stacks of research articles dating back to 2000. She has consulted in various settings and taught courses focused on psychology. Her work has been published by ParentDish, Atkins and other clients. Harding holds a Master of Science in psychology from Capella University and is completing several certificates through the Childbirth and Postpartum Professional Association.
View Full Profile
Vitamin E is found in foods like vegetable oils, meat, eggs, milk and leafy vegetables, according to Drugs.com. Supplemental forms of vitamin E, such as capsules, can be ingested to treat a vitamin E deficiency when recommended by a health care professional. In addition, applying vitamin E directly to facial skin has potential benefits for your skin's appearance and texture.
A woman applying a beauty product onto her face in the bathroom. (Image: Alliance/iStock/Getty Images)
Moisture
Vitamin E, whether obtained by breaking oral supplement capsules or as part of a facial moisturizer product, can help hydrate delicate facial skin. It is possible to have minor to moderate skin irritation when using vitamin E topically; discontinue use if this occurs.
Scar Treatment
Regularly applying the contents of a vitamin E capsule to a scar, such as an acne scar, may reduce the scar's appearance over time. This potential benefit has not been well explored by research but it is often recommended by dermatologists and other skin professionals as one of the few potential ways to treat permanent skin marks without surgery. DoctorYourself.com suggests applying vitamin E to scar by breaking open a capsule and applying the liquid directly to the scar.
Burn Treatment
Vitamin E promotes healing, states the University of Maryland Medical Center. Once a burn has healed, which is characterized by new skin forming, topical application of vitamin E can help prevent scaring. The Center also suggests talking with a doctor about taking oral vitamin E before surgery to promote healing.
Anti-Aging
Topical application of vitamin E may reduce the length and depth of facial lines and wrinkles, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. One specific form of vitamin E that has this benefit is alpha-tocopherol cream. Using such a cream can also reduce skin roughness.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Drugs.com: Vitamin E
DoctorYourself.com: Vitamin E
University of Maryland Medical Center: Burns
University of Maryland Medical Center: Skin Wrinkles and Blemishes-Treatment
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Does Rubbing Vitamin E on the Face Help Wrinkles?
2
Benefits of Applying Vitamin A Gel Pill Contents on the Skin
3
How to Heal Skin Burns With Vitamin Supplements
4
How to Treat Scars After Surgery
5
How to Minimize Scarring After a Burn
6
Vitamins For Managing Melasma
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.