Lactobacillus probiotics improve asthma severity in children according to new study
Blog Home
Nutrition Notes
Science Update
Research & Education
Search form
Search
Blog Home
Nutrition Notes
Science Update
Research & Education
Science Update
Lactobacillus probiotics improve asthma severity in children according to new study
November 16, 2018 - 05:15
facebook
twitter
linkedin
Asthma has become more prevalent over the past decade. Many patients have managed their asthma with medication and by avoiding environmental triggers.
According to a new study published last week in Nature, researchers demonstrated Lactobacillus supplementation improves asthma severity in children with asthma.
This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial included 160 children ranging from 6 to 18 years of age with asthma. Each child received either a supplement of Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus fermentum, a combination of the two, or a placebo for 3 months.
Researchers assessed disease severity, immune markers, and quality of life. This included their Global Initiative for Asthma-based asthma severity, Childhood Asthma Control Test (C-ACT) scores, Pediatric Asthma Severity Scores, Pediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire scores, peak expiratory flow rates, medication use, and immune biomarkers (IgE, interferon γ, IL-4, and TNF-α). Compared with the placebo group, the children receiving Lactobacillus containing probiotics all had lower asthma severity and higher C-ACT scores. In addition, the group that received both Lactobacillus strains demonstrated increased peak expiratory flow rates and lower IgE levels. These findings indicate that Lactobacillus probiotics may have immunomodulatory effects and should be considered for inclusion in strategies to support children with asthma.
Low serum vitamin D levels have also been linked to an increased risk of asthma. A study published in 2014 in the journal Allergy demonstrated that vitamin D can help manage asthma. Researchers analyzed the medical records of approximately four million members of Clalit Health Services, Israel's largest health care provider. The vitamin D levels of 307,900 people were measured between 2008 and 2012. Asthma patients with a vitamin D deficiency were 25% more likely than other asthmatics to have had at least one flare-up in the recent past.
Vitamin D has significant immunomodulatory effects and has been shown to have a positive impact on asthma.
These results demonstrate the link between vitamin D and asthma, and the beneficial effects of vitamin D in reducing exacerbations. Asthma patients who experience recurrent exacerbations should have their vitamin D levels measured and supplement if warranted. Increasing vitamin D levels is a simple and inexpensive way to improve patients' quality of life.
Other nutrients to consider to relax the airways and provide anti-inflammatory properties include magnesium, vitamin C, and fish oil.
By Michael Jurgelewicz, DC, DACBN, DCBCN, CNS
Source: Huang CF, Chie, WC, et al. Efficacy of Lactobacillus Administration in School-Age Children with Asthma: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial. Nutrients. 2018 Nov 5;10(11). pii: E1678. doi: 10.3390/nu10111678.
More Science Update
Science Update
New study demonstrates the effects of bacteriophage supplementation on the gut microbiome
Science Update
New study investigates the impact of low vitamin B12 and high homocysteine levels in Parkinson’s disease
Science Update
New study demonstrates the benefits of resistant starch in patients with chronic kidney disease
Load more
Search Designs for Health
Search form
Search
Designs for Health has been dedicated to being the most trusted source for superior quality, science-based nutritional products for nearly three decades. We’re committed to maximizing successful health outcomes by providing healthcare practitioners with comprehensive support through our extensive product line, ongoing clinical education, and practice development programs. The blogs we publish here cover a range of topics, including new and original approaches to diet and healthcare, analyses of the latest cutting-edge research, deep-dives into specific nutrients, botanicals, nutraceuticals and more, all fully referenced for those who want to dig deeper into the primary literature.
LATEST POSTS
Botanical Relief for Seasonal Allergies
New study demonstrates the effects of bacteriophage supplementation on the gut microbiome
For Diet & Lifestyle Change, “Accentuate the Positive”
Subscribe with us!
Receive new blog posts in a weekly email!
I am a Health Care Professional
Tags
Vitamin D
Probiotics
Cholesterol
Fish oil
Collagen
Vitamin E
Tocotrienols
Children
Dementia
Alzheimer’s Disease
Exercise
Parkinson’s Disease
Diabetes
Intermittent fasting
Stress
Human Microbiome
T2 Diabetes
Nutritional Supplements
Traumatic brain injury
Body Weight