Reviews Archives - Page 2 of 2 - Help My Foot Pain
Skip to content
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Reviews
Knee Walkers vs Hands Free Crutches
March 7, 2019 August 3, 2018 by Kyle
Knee Walkers vs Hands Free Crutches Have you recently suffered a knee, foot, or ankle injury and are confined to crutches. Crutches have been around for a long time and without much of a change. While crutches are proven to effectively unload the weight off of your injured leg or foot speeding up recovery time, they are … Read more
Categories Information, Resources, ReviewsTags crutch, crutches, hands free crutches, iwalk, knee scooter, knee walkerLeave a comment
Best Foot Massager for Plantar Fasciitis
April 9, 2019 July 30, 2018 by Kyle
Best Foot Massager for Plantar Fasciitis Your foot has thick, fibrous band of tissue (”fascia”) reaching from your heel to your toes. These tissues support the muscles and arch of the foot. When they’re overly stretched, tiny tears can occur in their surface. These tiny tears will cause inflammation and pain. A number of things … Read more
Categories ReviewsTags foam roller, foot massage, foot massager, massage, plantar fasciitis, review1 Comment
Achilles Tendon Brace for Running
April 9, 2019 June 5, 2018 by Kyle
Running and Achilles Tendon Soreness So you love to run, but your Achilles Tendon is bothering you and maybe you have Achilles Tendonitis, you need an Achilles Tendon Brace for Running. A brace will help support your problematic Achilles Tendon. We reviewed 4 different braces to see which Achilles tendon brace for running is the … Read more
Categories ReviewsTags achilles, achilles brace, achilles tendon brace for running, runningLeave a comment
KT Tape for Plantar Fasciitis Review
April 9, 2019 June 4, 2018 by Kyle
KT Tape for Plantar Fasciitis Review So you have some plantar fasciitis pain. We all know it hurts, I personally had a period of time where plantar fasciitis was affecting my right foot. I tried many different solutions, to help resolve the issue. One which helped a lot was using KT or Kinesio Tape. Below is … Read more
Categories ReviewsTags Kinesiology Tape, Kinseo Tape, KT Tape, KT Tape for Plantar Fasciitis Review, plantar fasciitis2 Comments
Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
April 9, 2019 June 4, 2018 by Kyle
Achilles Tendonitis The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the human body. It connects your heel bone to your calf muscles and is used when walking, running, and jumping. Achilles tendonitis occurs when the Achilles tendon becomes inflamed or aggravated. Achilles tendonitis occurs in the middle area of the tendon which is slightly above … Read more
Categories ReviewsTags achilles, achilles brace, achilles tendonitis, best ankle brace for achilles tendonitisLeave a comment
Best Brace for Achilles Tendon Injury
April 9, 2019 May 31, 2018 by Kyle
Best Brace for Achilles Tendon Injury So you have hurt your Achilles, now what? After your RICE treatment, you are going to want to get a brace. The brace will help stabilize your injury while you heal, while also allowing you to be mobile. We reviewed five braces which we think would benefit people who have … Read more
Categories ReviewsTags achilles, achilles brace, achilles tendonitis, best brace for achilles tendon injuryLeave a comment
Post navigation
Newer posts
← Previous 1 2
Product Highlight
Best Walking Boot for Plantar Fasciitis
Learn more
Recent Posts
Rigid Ankle Braces for Maximum Support
Best Rigid Ankle Brace
Alternative Crutches Help Ease the Pain
Alternative to Crutches for Foot Injury
Massaging Your Way Out of Foot Pain
Follow Me
Facebook
Pinterest
Disclaimer
HelpMyFootPain is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, and as an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. Amazon Associates is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites
© 2019 Help My Foot Pain • Powered by GeneratePress
Home
Reviews
Foot Health
About
Disclamer
Close