Mood Music
Home
About MedWorm
Health News
Specialties
Conditions
Cancers
Infec. Diseases
Procedures
Therapies
Nutrition
Drugs
Vaccines
Management
Training
Countries
any words all words exact phrase advanced  Advanced search can include the following:
• OR operator: |
• NOT operators: - OR !
• phrase search: "breast cancer"
• AND is implied so listing two words without another operator will search for records where both words are present.
• use () to group words together:
eg.(cancer|cancers)(cervical|cervix)!("Squamous cell carcinoma"|SCC)
will return records where either the words 'cancer' or 'cancers' are present, plus the words 'cervical' or 'cervix', but not the phrase 'squamous cell carcinoma' or 'SCC'.
• order operator: word1 << word2 << word3
eg. chronic << (leukemia|leukaemia)
here the word 'chronic' must come somewhere before either the work 'leukemia' or 'leukaemia'.
• search on a specific field using any of the following: @item_headline @item_description @source @author @tags
eg1. @item_headline "kidney cancer" @item_description (trial|trials)
this searches for the phrase 'kidney cancer' in the title as well as either the word 'trial' or 'trials' in description.
eg2. @(item_headline,item_description,tags) heart
this searches for items where the word 'heart' exists in all of the headline, description and tags fields.
eg3. @source "Journal of the American College of Cardiology"
this searches for items where "Journal of the American College of Cardiology" is listed as the source.
news research blogs podcasts video events funding alerts forums clinical trials
Mood Music
Using music to calm, energize, and inspire you.read more
http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/how-do-life/201406/mood-music
Source: Psychology Today Anxiety Center - June 17, 2014 Category: Psychiatry & Psychology Authors: Marty Nemko, Ph.D. Tags: Anxiety Depression Happiness Stress music music therapy stress reduction Source Type: news
Related Links:
Benefits of Playing an Instrument for the Brain
You're reading Benefits of Playing an Instrument for the Brain, originally posted on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement. If you're enjoying this, please visit our site for more inspirational articles. Music is something that makes most people really happy. No matter what ethnicity, age or gender you belong to, you certainly love to listen to music. Aside from listening to music, there are other ways on how you can enjoy it. You can take up music lessons and enjoy playing musical instruments. This is something that will not only give you something to do during your free time but can also provide other benefits...
Source: PickTheBrain | Motivation and Self Improvement - April 8, 2019 Category: Consumer Health News Authors: Curtis_Dean Tags: depression happiness meditation better mental health healthy brain music Source Type: blogs
Meta-analysis of psychosocial interventions for people with dementia and anxiety or depression.
CONCLUSION: The identified psychosocial interventions are effective at reducing symptoms of depression or anxiety in PWD experiencing these symptoms. This review is limited by the quality of studies, small sample sizes and the heterogeneity of the interventions, therefore high quality studies with larger sample sizes are required to test the efficacy of specific interventions such as CBT. PMID: 30328711 [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
Source: Aging and Mental Health - October 17, 2018 Category: Geriatrics Authors: Noone D, Stott J, Aguirre E, Llanfear K, Spector A Tags: Aging Ment Health Source Type: research
Dementia patients may benefit from music therapy
(Reuters Health) - Music therapy may improve depression and anxiety in dementia patients, a new analysis suggests.
Source: Reuters: Health - August 17, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: healthNews Source Type: news
3 Strange and Surprising Ways Music Affects Your Well-Being
Conclusion Music is truly remarkable. That it lifts your mood, amplifies your emotions, and makes you dance is well-known. But it can also improve mental performance, reduce stress, and even alleviate symptoms of brain degeneration as these studies show. So the next time you’re feeling stressed, you know what to do – grab the nearest headphones and start listening!You've read 3 Strange and Surprising Ways Music Affects Your Well-Being, originally posted on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement. If you've enjoyed this, please visit our site for more inspirational articles.
Source: PickTheBrain | Motivation and Self Improvement - July 30, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Authors: pjkaka Tags: creativity depression featured happiness psychology self improvement benefits of music music therapy pickthebrain Source Type: blogs
Music-based therapeutic interventions for people with dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing people with dementia who are in institutional care with at least five sessions of a music-based therapeutic intervention probably reduces depressive symptoms and improves overall behavioural problems at the end of treatment. It may also improve emotional well-being and quality of life and reduce anxiety, but may have little or no effect on agitation or aggression or on cognition. We are uncertain about effects on social behaviour and about long-term effects. Future studies should examine the duration of effects in relation to the overall duration of treatment and the number of sessions. PMID: 30...
Source: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews - July 23, 2018 Category: General Medicine Authors: van der Steen JT, Smaling HJ, van der Wouden JC, Bruinsma MS, Scholten RJ, Vink AC Tags: Cochrane Database Syst Rev Source Type: research
The Healing Qualities of Music Therapy in Substance Abuse Treatment
Various types of therapies have proven to be useful in alcohol and drug rehab programs, but music therapy is a tool that many individuals seeking treatment may not understand fully. Studies have shown that music therapy provides significant healing, emotionally, physically, and mentally, and it may end up being an important aspect of your own substance abuse treatment. What Is Music Therapy? Music therapy is very different from music in the form of entertainment. It is a clinical and evidence-based therapeutic practice that utilizes music to accomplish goals within an individual’s therapy program.1 Each client’...
Source: World of Psychology - July 11, 2018 Category: Psychiatry & Psychology Authors: Kelsey Brown Tags: Addiction Alcoholism Creativity Habits LifeHelper Psychology Psychotherapy Recovery Substance Abuse Treatment Drug rehabilitation Music Therapy Source Type: blogs
Postnatal anxiety prevalence, predictors and effects on development: A narrative review
Publication date: May 2018Source: Infant Behavior and Development, Volume 51Author(s): Tiffany FieldAbstractThe increasing prevalence of postnatal anxiety highlights the need for summarizing the recent research on this condition to inform screening and intervention efforts. This narrative review of the literature was derived from a search on PubMed and PsycINFO for papers published since 2010. The demographic risk factors for postnatal anxiety include being a young mother, having more education and being employed. Childbirth risk factors include being primiparous in one sample and multiparous in another, caesarean delivery...
Source: Infant Behavior and Development - July 11, 2018 Category: Child Development Source Type: research
The impact of music therapy on pain and stress reduction during oocyte retrieval – a randomized controlled trial
ConclusionMusic is a simple, inexpensive and effective way to reduce pain score and increase satisfaction with pain control during TUGOR procedure, which may justify its routine use.
Source: Reproductive BioMedicine Online - July 11, 2018 Category: Reproduction Medicine Source Type: research
Autism Spectrum Disorder: Classification, diagnosis and therapy
Publication date: Available online 12 May 2018Source: Pharmacology &TherapeuticsAuthor(s): Samata R. Sharma, Xenia Gonda, Frank I. TaraziAbstractAutism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) refers to a group of neurodevelopmental disorders including autism, Asperger's syndrome (AS) and pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). The new diagnostic criteria of ASD focuses on two core domains: social communication impairment and restricted interests/repetitive behaviors. The prevalence of ASD has been steadily increasing over the past two decades, with current estimates reaching up to 1 in 36 children. Heredita...
Source: Pharmacology and Therapeutics - July 10, 2018 Category: Drugs & Pharmacology Source Type: research
The impact of music therapy on pain and stress reduction during oocyte retrieval – a randomized controlled trial
ConclusionMusic is a simple, inexpensive and effective way to reduce pain score and increase satisfaction with pain control during TUGOR procedure, which may justify its routine use.
Source: Reproductive BioMedicine Online - July 6, 2018 Category: Reproduction Medicine Source Type: research
More News: Anxiety | Depression | Music Therapy | Psychology
MedWorm Privacy Policy Disclaimer Copyright © MedWorm 2006-2019