Is iron deficiency in the absence of anemia associated with fatigue in inflammatory bowel disease?
Libraries
MSpace
U of M Home | A-Z Index | Maps | JUMP | Webmail
U of M Website
People
Research Experts
Home
Is iron deficiency in the absence of anemia associated with fatigue in inflammatory bowel disease?
Sign on to: ▾
Submit to MSpace
Edit an unfinished submission
See your recent activities or item
Faculty of Graduate Studies (Admin)
Collection Manager (Admin)
Change your password (Admin)
MSpace Home
→
Research Publications from University of Manitoba Researchers
→
Research Publications
→
View Item
JavaScript is disabled for your browser. Some features of this site may not work without it.
Is iron deficiency in the absence of anemia associated with fatigue in inflammatory bowel disease?
Goldenberg, Benjamin; Walker, John R.; Graff, Lesley A.; Clara, Ian; Zarychanski, Ryan; Carr, Rachel; Rogala, Linda; Miller, Linda; Bernstein, Charles N.
URI: http://hdl.handle.net/1993/30430
DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2013.14
Date: 2013-09
Abstract:
OBJECTIVES: We explored whether iron deficiency in the absence of anemia is associated with fatigue in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). METHODS: We assessed iron deficiency and anemia in 280 participants from the population-based Manitoba IBD Cohort Study. RESULTS: Iron deficiency was identified in 20% with Crohn's disease and 27% with ulcerative colitis. Anemia was identified overall in 50 (18%), with 230 who were nonanemic. In the nonanemic subgroup, there were no significant differences between iron-deficient and -sufficient groups in mean fatigue levels or proportions with problematic fatigue. There was no unique contribution of iron deficiency to problematic fatigue after adjustment for active disease and anemia. CONCLUSIONS: There was no evidence of an association between iron deficiency and fatigue in the absence of anemia, suggesting that iron deficiency is not a clinically relevant contributor to fatigue in IBD.
Show full item record
Files in this item
Name: Goldenberg paper ...
Size: 228.3Kb
Format: PDF
Description: Main Article
View/Open
This item appears in the following Collection(s)
Research Publications [1096]
This collection contains full text research publications authored or co-authored by University of Manitoba researchers.
View Statistics
Need help ? Click here for MSpace How-To documentation
Wendy Prystenski (Fort Garry Campus), Phone: 204-474-7895, email:wendy.prystenski@umanitoba.ca
Theme by
DSpace software