Rope Burn: First Aid, Treatment, Signs of Infection, Recovery
Newsletter
How to Treat a Rope Burn at Home and When to Seek Help
Medically reviewed by Suzanne Falck, MD on September 18, 2018 — Written by Corey Whelan
First aid
Treatment
Seeking help
Recovery
Signs of infection
Prevention
Outlook
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is a rope burn?
A rope burn is a type of friction burn. It’s caused by the rapid or repeated movement of coarse rope rubbing against skin. This abrades the skin, resulting in:
redness
irritation
blisters
bleeding
Rope burns can be superficial, meaning they only affect the top layers of skin. Though less likely, they can be deep, going through the dermis layer and exposing bone.
Rope burns can occur during many activities, such as:
tug-of-war
aerial acrobatics
rock climbing
handling farm animals
camping or boating
Rug burns are another type of friction burn.
Immediate first aid
Supplies to have on hand for treating rope burns include:
clean water
topical aloe
sterile gauze pads
cloth gauze tape
tweezer
Take these steps if you get a rope burn:
1. Assess the wound
Determine the severity of the rope burn. The size and depth of the wound determine whether it is a first-, second-, third-, or fourth-degree burn.
Any rope burn that is larger than 2 to 3 inches or deeper than the skin’s uppermost layer should be looked at by a doctor.
If medical support is necessary, clean and cover the wound to avoid infection, and then call your local emergency services or go to an emergency facility immediately.
You should also seek immediate medical treatment for a rope burn accompanied by any of these symptoms:
extreme pain
dehydration
charred, black appearance
white, waxy appearance
exposure of tissue or bone
heavy bleeding
dirt or rope fragments within the wound that can’t be easily removed
2. Clean the wound
All rope burns should be cleaned using cool running water. This helps remove debris, bacteria, and rope fragments from the wound. If running water is unavailable, use a cool compress or standing, sterilized water instead. Don’t ice the wound, as this may further damage tissue.
If there are rope fragments that don’t rinse out, you can leave them intact for a doctor to remove or try to gently remove them yourself with a sterilized tweezer. Be careful to avoid pulling or further abrading the wound while attempting to remove fragments or debris.
3. Apply aloe topically
Most often topical aloe will be enough to help with pain. Don’t use butter, which might contain bacteria and lead to infection.
4. Cover the wound
Keep the wound clean and dry with a gauze bandage or wrap. Wrap the wounded area lightly, rather than tightly.
How to continue caring for your rope burn
Rope burns may continue to hurt for a few days. Over-the-counter pain medications can help alleviate pain. Make sure not to exceed the recommended dosage. If your pain level increases or doesn’t improve within five days, see a doctor.
You will need to keep the bandage clean and dry. Sterile bandages should be changed once a day or more often if they get wet or become soiled.
Reapply a layer of topical aloe with each bandage change, being careful not to put pressure on the wound.
Continue to assess the wound. If redness, puffiness, or signs of infection appear, see a doctor.
Don’t pop any blisters that appear in the wound.
Monitor yourself for signs of dehydration, and drink lots of water.
The wound should heal within 7 to 10 days. You can stop covering it once the skin is completely healed over.
If your rope burn requires treatment from a doctor, follow your doctor’s specific recommendations.
When to seek help
Many rope burns are superficial and respond to at-home treatment without scarring. Severe burns that require medical attention should be cleaned and covered immediately, prior to seeing a doctor.
If any of the following apply, seek medical help:
You have a second-degree burn and haven’t had a tetanus shot in five years or longer.
You’re in significant pain or are concerned about the rope burn.
Your burn is very deep or large. Deep burns may not hurt because the nerve endings in the dermis have been burned away. Third- and fourth-degree burns are medical emergencies.
The burn appears to be infected.
The burn can’t be cleaned out completely.
What to expect from recovery
The severity of the rope burn will determine how long it takes to heal. First-degree burns typically take three to six days to heal, but may take up to 10 days in some cases.
Second-degree burns can take two to three weeks or longer to heal. Some may require surgical removal of dead skin or skin grafting.
Third- and fourth-degree burns require skin grafting and extensive healing time.
How to tell if a rope burn is infected
Keeping the burned area clean and covered will help shield it from infection. If the wound does become infected, it will require medical attention.
Signs of infection include:
redness or puffiness that spreads out from the wound site
swelling
oozing
increasing levels of pain, or pain that seems to spread out from the initial wound
fever
How to prevent rope burn
One of the best ways to prevent rope burns is to cover your skin with clothing anywhere it may come into contact with rope. This includes wearing gloves, long pants, and long-sleeved shirts, even in warm weather.
Taking a commonsense approach to rope safety during sports and activities is also important:
Avoid getting tangled up in ropes on boat decks
Use caution when walking around ropes in campgrounds, and avoiding stepping in rope loops.
Explain to children that ropes can be dangerous if not handled correctly before engaging in rope activities.
Wear gloves when playing tug-of-war. Rope burns can happen quickly if everyone is pulling on a rope at the same time.
Never grab at a rope that’s being pulled away from you by a person, boat, or vehicle, unless your life is in danger.
To help treatment for a rope burn, have a well-stocked first aid kit on hand, which usually includes sterile water and gauze.
You can purchase pre-stocked first aid kits, but make sure to replace supplies as they run out, and also check that the kits contain all of the essentials needed to treat a wound.
Outlook
Many rope burns are topical and can be treated at home. Others require a doctor’s care.
Always clean a rope burn thoroughly and cover it with a sterile gauze bandage to avoid infection. If any signs of infection do occur, call your doctor.
Medically reviewed by Suzanne Falck, MD on September 18, 2018 — Written by Corey Whelan
related stories
Home Remedies for Burns
Rug Burns: What You Should Know
What Burns Cause Scars and How Are Burn Scars Treated?
Turf Burn: What You Should Know
Outdoor Safety Tips for Kids
READ THIS NEXT
Home Remedies for Burns
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
You can treat most first-degree and second-degree burns at home by running cool water over the area for 20 minutes. Relieve pain with cool compresses…
READ MORE
Rug Burns: What You Should Know
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Also called a friction burn or carpet burn, rug burn occurs when the skin rubs or slides against an abrasive surface like a rug or carpet.
READ MORE
What Burns Cause Scars and How Are Burn Scars Treated?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, CNE, COI
Second- and third-degree burns can cause scars. Treatment options depend on the severity of your burn. Learn more.
READ MORE
Turf Burn: What You Should Know
Medically reviewed by Suzanne Falck, MD
If you play sports on artificial turf or lawn, you can get a painful abrasion known as a turf burn. Learn how to identify and treat this condition.
READ MORE
Outdoor Safety Tips for Kids
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Their high levels of energy, endless curiosity, and remarkable ability to bounce back from stumbles can put kids at risk. Learn how to keep them safe…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 154219 Client Version: 79747923c4e6e47c969e01afcf54d3679b99590b Build Number: 26773