Over the Counter Acne Scar Treatment
Follow Us:
Share some beauty tips and stunning makeup ideas!
Over the Counter Acne Scar Treatment
Acne scars develop due to the intense damage caused to the collagen due to inflammation. These scar are a result of the body's immune response to certain bacteria present on the skin. The following article provides information about the various over-the-counter treatment options available for these scars.
Rajib Singha
Perhaps, the most frustrating woes for some people is the age-old problem of acne and its worst repercussion, acne scar. Although there are several kinds of treatments to deal with these scars, no single one is best for every individual.
Over-the-Counter treatments
The first to make in the list is the commonly used benzoyl peroxide. This effective agent comes in cream, gel, and washable form. The acne-causing bacteria is known as Propionibacterium acnes and the anti-bacterial product works by killing this pathogen. This medication also causes mild drying and peeling of the skin. This actually helps in preventing acne breakouts and removal of acne scars. Common products which are based on benzoyl peroxide include Acne.org Treatment, Proactiv, Neutrogena On-the-Spot, Benzaderm Gel, Clearasil, Oxy-10 Fostex, Clear by Design, MD Formulations Benzoyl Peroxide 10, and Persa-Gel.
The next which follows the list is known as salicylic acid. This compound works by aiding the skin to shed dead cells more effectively. It manages the rapid shedding of skin cells inside hair follicles, which is also one of the causes of acne breakouts. So, it cuts down the number of pore blockages thereby preventing breakouts. Blackheads and whiteheads can also be treated with medication which is available in the form of cleansers, lotions, and treatment pads. Common names include Stri-dex, Noxzema Anti-Acne Gel, Stridex, Clearasil Clearstick, and Oxy Night Watch.
Resorcinol has the ability to cause a breakdown of hard, rough skin. This is the reason why it is effective in the treatment of blackheads and whiteheads. However, this medication is rarely used alone and is usually applied in conjunction with sulfur. The agent works by causing a trigger of peeling and drying of the skin. So, the combination of these two medications make for an effective treatment method for acne scar, in the form of washes, soaps, and creams. Brands you can go for include Clearasil Adult Care, Clearasil Medicated Blemish Cream, Glytone Flesh Tinted Acne, Treatment Lotion Rezamid Lotion, and Clearasil Medicated Blemish Stick.
Tips to Prevent or Reduce Acne Scars
Picking and squeezing the acne causes further darkening of the scar. It leads to further injury to the cells, which adds to the scarring. Squeezing causes the bacteria present in the pus to infiltrate deeper causing darkening of the scar.
Be extra careful while taking a bath. Do not use harsh scrubs, as they can easily tear open the skin and make way for the formation of acne scar.
As soon as you have an acne breakout, apply some ice to it. It would help to reduce swelling and hasten healing.
Vitamin E is known to boost the immune system and help fight infection. Taking a supplement of this vitamin and using its oil topically, helps in the healing and prevents scarring.
Use aloe vera gel to find relief from the irritation and inflammation of the acne breakouts.
Apart from this, avoid going out in sun. The UV rays from the sun stimulate the melanocytes and lead to further discoloration of the scars.
Share This
How to Clear Acne Scars Fast
Does Vitamin E Help Heal Acne Scars?
Home Remedies for Acne Scars
Bleaching Cream for Acne Scars
Lemon Juice for Acne Scars
Can You Get Rid of Acne Scars Overnight?
Sandalwood Paste for Acne Scars
How to Remove Acne Scars from the Face
Laser Surgery for Acne
How Does Chyawanprash Help Get Rid of Wrinkles?
Know How Chyawanprash Benefits Your Skin
Different Types of Noses
Meaning of Moles on the Face
History of Cosmetology
Vitamin E Oil for Face
Beauty Tips for Girls
Makeup Brushes and Their Uses
How to Make Your Own Lipstick
Lipstick Colors for Fair Skin
Eyeliner for Blue Eyes
Eye Makeup Tips
Astringent Vs. Toner
Eyeliner Styles
How to Do Smokey Eyes
Eyeshadow Ideas
What Does Your Lipstick Shape Say About Your Personality?
Spray Tanning Tips
Gothic Makeup Ideas
Makeup Tips for Women Over 50
Castor Oil for Skin Care
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service