Fever in children | Health Information | Bupa UK
Navigation
Individuals & families
Business
Intermediaries
Healthcare professionals
Find a consultant or facility
Menu
Help & support
Contact us
Search
My Bupa
Bupa Logo
Health
Dental
Elderly care
Travel
Health information
Individuals & families
Business
Intermediaries
Healthcare professionals
Find a consultant or facility
5ddf0ce1-a235-4910-a0e2-f87d97cb28de-1690
Back
Health
Health insurance
Giving you choice and flexibility
Get a quote
Business health insurance
Health insurance specifically for business
Leaving your company health insurance scheme?
Health cash plans
Giving you choice and flexibility
Pay as you go healthcare
Health assessments
Help to understand your health and identify any future health risks
SmartDNA
Physiotherapy
Private GP services
Dermatology treatments
Cromwell Hospital
To discuss your healthcare needs call us on
Personal
0808 271 8573 ^
Members
0330 134 5502 ^
Making a claim
Close menu
b5f026c7-dae8-4915-9225-f05ca24fb2ea-8E48
Back
Dental
Dental
We provide a range of dental services
Finance options
View finance options
Dental insurance
View our dental insurance products
Make a claim
Treatments
Treatments and services
View our treatments and services
General and specialist dentistry
View our treatments
Cosmetic dentistry
View our treatments
Emergency treatment
How to get emergency treatment
Nervous patients
Get help with dental anxiety
Dentists
Dental referrals
Business
Employee dental
Intermediaries
Dental insurance
Find a Dental Centre
Close menu
a3767c55-bf34-4d66-a395-9de18ef51855-73E2
Back
Elderly care
Find a care home
Search for care homes in your area
Types of care
Learn more about the care we offer
Paying for care
Learn about paying for your care
Request a guide
Our care services
Care services
Care homes
Retirement and assisted living
Life in a care home
News and events
Your guide to elderly care
Contact us
Talk to a care journey expert
0333 920 8317
Talk to us about careers in care
0800 028 0275
Learn about careers in care
Close menu
59ad4de7-daf5-49cf-8b77-54c121c7bb34-CBE3
Back
Travel
Travel products
Single trip or annual multi-trip insurance
Policies and claims
How to claim
Contact us
Talk to a travel expert
0808 271 3768 ^
Close menu
eca57db7-4d4c-4b32-9a7c-59ce108d935a-8B26
Back
Health information
Health information A-Z
All A-Z topics
Reviewed by experts, written in plain English
Bupa health blog
All blog articles
Over 300 blogs, from our health experts, to help you live a longer, healthier, happier life
Fitness blogs
Reach your goals
Diet blogs
Eat well
Relaxation blogs
Sit back and relax
Health hubs
Dementia
With more and more of us touched by dementia, getting the right information is essential
Bupa knee clinic
If you've injured your knee or have a long-term knee problem, we can help you find the information and support you need
Cancer
Information to help you during your cancer journey
Workplace mental health
Info and advice to help yours and your colleagues workplace mental health
Close menu
You are here:
Home
Health information
Children's health
Fever in children
Back to top
Menu
Fever in children
Expert reviewer, Dr Adrian Raby, General Practitioner
Next review due July 2020
Normal body temperature varies from child to child and goes up and down naturally throughout the day. But, if your child’s temperature is 38°C (100.4°F) or above, then it means they have a fever.
Fever is very common, especially in young children. In fact, by the time your child reaches 18 months, they’re likely to have had around eight different infections with a fever. When your child is ill and has a fever, it can be upsetting and worrying, but there are things you can do to help your child feel better.
A fever is usually caused by an infection of some kind, and often gets better on its own. But, it can sometimes be a sign of a more serious health problem. So, it’s important to know how to manage and treat your child’s fever, and when to get medical help.
Symptoms of fever in children
If your child has a fever, they will have a body temperature of 38°C or above. They may feel or look generally unwell. Your child may not be as active and engaged, and they may not want to eat or drink.
Sometimes minor illnesses can cause a very high temperature, whereas some serious infections can cause only a small rise in temperature. As well as your child’s high temperature, you may notice other symptoms of infection, such as:
diarrhoea and vomiting
earache, or clutching at their ears
cough, runny nose or wheezy breathing
a rash
Getting medical advice or help
You should get medical help straightaway by taking your child to accident and emergency, or calling an ambulance, if they:
are less than three months old and have a temperature of 38°C or above
are unusually sleepy or difficult to wake up
have bluish, pale or mottled skin
have a weak, high-pitched cry or won’t stop crying
are grunting, having difficulty breathing or are breathing very quickly
have a stiff neck
dislike bright lights
develop a rash that doesn’t disappear when pressed
have a bulging fontanelle (the soft spot on the top of the head of babies)
they don’t respond to you in the usual way, for example, your baby doesn’t smile when you smile
they have swollen joints, arms or legs
You should seek urgent medical advice from your GP or out-of-hours service if:
you think they’re getting worse instead of better
there are signs that they may be dehydrated, such as producing small amounts of dark urine (see our FAQ below for more information)
they are shivering and sweating
they are less active than usual
they are three to six months old and have a temperature of 39°C or above
their fever has lasted for five days or more
they can’t place their weight on one or both legs, or they don’t seem to be using their arms or legs
In some children, a high fever can lead to fits called febrile seizures or convulsions. If this happens, your child can become unconscious and twitch and shake for several minutes. You can find out more about febrile seizures, and what to do if your child has one, in the FAQ section below.
Need a GP appointment?
With our GP services, we aim to give you an appointment the same day, subject to availability. Find out more about our GP services >
To book or to make an enquiry, call us on 03456192961^
Need a GP appointment?
Find out more about our GP services >
Both Desktop and Mobile
Diagnosis of fever in children
You can see whether your child has a fever by checking their temperature using a thermometer. You can do this yourself at home.
If your child is less than four weeks, use an electronic thermometer to take their temperature under their arm (in their armpit). For children aged one month to five years, you can measure temperature under the arm or in the ear using an electronic thermometer. You can use a digital mouth thermometer for children aged over five. Follow the instructions that come with the thermometer, to make sure you get an accurate reading.
Mercury thermometers aren’t used anymore because of the risk that they could break and harm your child. Thermometers that measure temperature on your child’s forehead can be unreliable, so are best not used.
At the doctor’s
Your GP will ask about your child's symptoms and medical history and examine them. If you have travelled abroad recently, or had contact with anyone who has, you should let your GP know.
They will take your child’s temperature and check their heart rate. Your GP might check for other signs of infection, by examining your child’s ears, throat and abdomen and listening to their breathing.
There may be an obvious cause for your child’s fever, so they may not need to have further tests. If the cause of your child’s fever isn’t clear, your GP may ask for a urine sample. Your GP may also refer your child to a paediatrician (a doctor who specialises in children’s health) for more tests.
Treatment of fever in children
Fever is often caused by a viral infection and will get better on its own. So, treating your child’s fever may mean doing nothing except keeping them comfortable, and waiting for them to get better.
However, for some children a fever can be the sign of a more serious illness, so it’s important to keep an eye out for any changes in behaviour and any other symptoms.
Self-help
Fever is part of the body’s natural response to infection, so sometimes it doesn’t need to be treated, as long as your child isn’t distressed. Treating fever with medicines doesn’t prevent febrile seizures, as people used to believe.
You can offer your child regular drinks to help them stay hydrated and to prevent dehydration. If you’re breastfeeding then you can carry on doing this as normal. You can find out more about dehydration in the FAQ section below.
Although it’s important that your child doesn’t overheat, take care to ensure that they aren’t underdressed either. Don’t actively try to cool your child, for example with tepid sponging or a cool bath. It’s unlikely to work; it can be distressing for your child and it can cause them to start shivering.
While your child has a fever, keep them away from school or nursery.
Medicines
If your child has a fever, and they’re also uncomfortable or distressed, you can give them paracetamol or ibuprofen. You shouldn’t give these medicines just to bring down their temperature if your child is otherwise well.
If you try paracetamol and it doesn’t seem to work, then you can try ibuprofen instead and vice versa. Don’t give both medicines at once though.
Make sure you keep a note of how much paracetamol or ibuprofen your child has had, and when you’ve given it. This will help to make sure you don’t accidentally give them more than the recommended amount.
You can buy medicines that are suitable for children from a pharmacy without a prescription. Always read the patient information leaflet that comes with your child’s medicine and if you have any questions, ask your pharmacist for advice.
If your child has a bacterial infection, your GP may prescribe a course of antibiotics, although the infection will usually go away without the need for any medicines.
Causes of fever in children
There are many conditions that can cause a fever in children. Most fevers in children are caused by viral and bacterial infections. These can include coughs, colds, flu and other viruses, and throat, ear, chest and urine infections. Rarely, a fever can be a sign of a serious illness, such as meningitis or septicaemia.
More rarely, children can also develop a fever as a symptom of conditions other than an infection. For example, some autoimmune conditions like Still’s disease, some cancers, liver and kidney disease may all cause a fever.
Fever can also be a side-effect of some immunisations. See our FAQs for more information.
Frequently asked questions
Expand all
How can I tell if my child is dehydrated? How can I tell if my child is dehydrated?
You become dehydrated when there isn't enough water in your body and children are more likely to get dehydrated than adults. Your child can lose a lot of fluid if they have a fever, so it's important to check for signs of dehydration.
When your child or baby is beginning to get dehydrated they may:
seem generally unwell
be irritable and/or lethargic
pass less urine
have sunken eyes and a dry mouth
have sunken fontanelles – the soft spots on the top and back of their head
Give your child regular drinks if he or she has a fever. If you’re breastfeeding, try to continue feeding your baby. Contact your GP for advice if you’re concerned that your child may be dehydrated.
Could my child have a fever after being immunised? Could my child have a fever after being immunised?
Yes, immunisation can sometimes cause fever. Some immunisations, such as tetanus, can cause a fever within a few hours. Others, such as MMR, may lead to fever a few days or a week later.
It’s common to have a mild fever after an immunisation. When your child has the injection, ask what you should to do if a fever develops. You can give your child paracetamol or ibuprofen to treat any discomfort or fever, but in most cases, it’s best not to give these to prevent a fever. This is because giving paracetamol or ibuprofen may affect how well the immunisations work. An exception is the meningitis B immunisation for children under the age of one. If your child has this immunisation, you’ll be given information about giving them liquid paracetamol to reduce the chances of fever.
What should I do if my child has a febrile seizure (convulsion)? What should I do if my child has a febrile seizure (convulsion)?
Febrile seizures can happen in children under the age of five. They’re caused by a very high temperature. Although they can be frightening, they aren’t usually harmful. Stay with your child throughout the seizure to keep them safe and get medical advice once the seizure is over.
More information
Febrile seizures or convulsions are fits caused by a high temperature. They happen in younger children, usually between the ages of six months and five years. A seizure can be triggered if your child’s temperature becomes very high, regardless of whether that happens quickly or slowly.
During a febrile seizure, part or all of your child's body shakes or twitches. Your child could also become unconsciousness during the seizure.
Although febrile seizures rarely last longer than a few minutes, they can be very frightening. If your child has a febrile seizure, try to stay calm. Don’t restrain your child, but try to make them as safe as possible, using your hands or a cushion to protect their head. If they’re in a place where they may get hurt, move them to somewhere safe if you can. Don’t put anything in their mouth.
Febrile seizures usually last just a few minutes and stop without needing any treatment. If the seizure lasts for longer than five minutes, you should call for an ambulance. If the seizure lasts for less than five minutes, you should still contact your GP or out-of-hours service as soon as possible to rule out a serious illness.
When the seizure is over, make sure your child is breathing properly and put them on their side in the recovery position until they fully wake up. After a seizure, your child may be sleepy for up to an hour.
Around one in three children who have a febrile seizure will go on to have another. Although febrile seizures can be frightening, most children recover well with no lasting health problems.
About our health information
At Bupa we produce a wealth of free health information for you and your family. We believe that trustworthy information is essential in helping you make better decisions about your health and care. That’s why our content is produced to the highest quality standards. Look out for the quality marks on our pages below. You can find out more about these organisations and their standards on The Information Standard and HON Code websites.
Learn more about our editorial team and principles >
Related information
Antibiotics
Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections and are only available via prescription
Read more
Over-the-counter painkillers
Over-the-counter painkillers are painkillers that you can buy from a pharmacy or shop, without needing a prescription from your GP.
Read more
Expand all
Other helpful websites Other helpful websites
Meningitis Research Foundation
0808 800 3344
www.meningitis.org
Sources Sources
Fever in infants and children. The MSD Manuals. www.msdmanuals.com, last full review/revision August 2016
Fever in under 5s: assessment and initial management. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). www.nice.org.uk, May 2013
Ill and feverish child. PatientPlus. www.patient.info, last checked June 2013
Meningitis. PatientPlus. www.patient.info, last checked June 2013
Non-contact infrared thermometers. NIHR Diagnostic Evidence Cooperative Oxford. www.oxford.dec.nihr.ac.uk, published November 2013
Feverish children. NICE Clinical Knowledge Summaries. cks.nice.org.uk, last revised September 2013
health. Oxford handbook of general practice (online). Oxford Medicine Online. oxfordmedicine.com, published April 2014
Assessment of fever of unknown origin in children. BMJ Best Practice. bestpractice.bmj.com, last updated August 2016
Green book. Public Health England. www.gov.uk, published August 2012
Protocol: Supply or administration of paracetamol oral suspension 120mg/5mL to infants under 12 months of age receiving primary doses of MenB vaccination. Public Health England. www.england.nhs.uk, last updated September 2015
Dehydration in children. PatientPlus. www.patient.info, last checked April 2014
Diarrhoea and vomiting caused by gastroenteritis in under 5s. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). www.nice.org.uk, published April 2009
Febrile seizure. BMJ Best Practice. bestpractice.bmj.com, last updated November 2016
Febrile seizures. NICE Clinical Knowledge Summaries. cks.nice.org.uk, last revised October 2013
Febrile convulsions. PatientPlus. www.patient.info, last checked June 2015
Author information Author information
Reviewed by Graham Pembrey, Lead Editor, July 2017
Expert reviewer, Dr Adrian Raby, General Practitioner
Next review due July 2020
Has our health information helped you?
We’d love to know what you think about what you’ve just been reading and looking at – we’ll use it to improve our information. If you’d like to give us some feedback, our short survey will take just a few minutes to complete. And if there's a question you want to ask that hasn't been answered here, please submit it to us. Although we can't respond to specific questions directly, we’ll aim to include the answer to it when we next review this topic.
Complete the survey
Legal disclaimer
This information was published by Bupa's Health Content Team and is based on reputable sources of medical evidence. It has been reviewed by appropriate medical or clinical professionals. Photos are only for illustrative purposes and do not reflect every presentation of a condition.
The information contained on this page and in any third party websites referred to on this page is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice nor is it intended to be for medical diagnosis or treatment. Third party websites are not owned or controlled by Bupa and any individual may be able to access and post messages on them. Bupa is not responsible for the content or availability of these third party websites. We do not accept advertising on this page.
For more details on how we produce our content and its sources, visit the 'About our health information' section.
^We may record or monitor our calls
Health
Health overview
Health insurance
Health cash plans
Health assessments
Pay as you go healthcare
SmartDNA
Bupa Centres
Dental
Dental overview
Cosmetic dentistry
Dental insurance
Emergency treatment
General and specialist dentistry
Treatments and services
Elderly care
Eldery care overview
Care homes
Retirement housing
Elderly Care Support Line
Travel
Travel overview
Bupa travel insurance
Single trip insurance
Annual multi-trip insurance
Health information
Health information overview
A-Z directory
Tools and calculators
Back care
Cancer
Dementia
Healthy mind
About Bupa
About Bupa overview
Financial information
Bupa Newsroom
Cancer promise
Our leaders
Member help and support
Careers
Privacy and cookies
Sitemap
Accessibility
Legal notices
© Bupa 2019
Bupa