Adrenal Fatigue | Cialis Tadalafil
Cialis Tadalafil
Cialis Tadalafil | cialisonlinecialispricetrbd
Menu
Skip to content
Home
News
Health
Nutrition
Shopping
Fashion
Clothes
Footware
Technology
About
Contact
Privacy
Tag: Adrenal Fatigue
A CoQ10 and Selenium Supplement May Cut Heart Disease Deaths by Half
﻿
Cardiovascular illness presently rates as the most deadly illness. Heart disease alone is the cause of more than 17 million deaths per year. Heart attacks claim more lives than even cancer. A sedentary lifestyle, poor diet, diabetes, smoking, obesity, stress, and high blood pressure are some of the factors that cause the arterial plaque, known as atherosclerosis, which leads to cardiac arrests. However, according to a recent scientific study conducted by Swedish researchers, taking a selenium supplement can slash the mortality risks from heart disease by half. The study, published in the International Journal of Cardiology, further connects the benefits to taking a selenium and CoQ10 combo. Several recent studies already explain the importance of these nutrients in protecting tissues from the effects of oxidative stress.
Selenium and CoQ10 Combo for Superior Heart Health
The study took five years and included 443 healthy individuals between 70 and 80 years of age. Researchers divided the people into two groups. One group received placebo, while the other was given a selenium supplement in combination with 200mg of CoQ10.
After rigorous observation at the end of five years, they found that the group taking supplements experienced only a 5.9% mortality rate, while the placebo group experienced a mortality rate of over 12.5%. The study indicated that the group receiving supplements displayed healthier cardiac function on an echocardiogram. They also had reduced levels of biomarker NT-proBNP, indicating a lower risk of heart disease.
Overall, the group receiving supplements had a lower risk of heart failure than those taking a placebo. The supplements appeared to protect both genders against cardiac illness equally. Further, researchers were surprised to note the long-term benefits of the supplements even after the study participants stopped taking them.
The research also found that selenium and CoQ10 may hold diverse health benefits, including aiding heart function, improving health over the long-term, and reducing hospitalizations.
Researchers concluded that the blend of selenium and CoQ10 could slash the mortality rate of heart attacks by 50%.
Several other recent studies were conducted on CoQ10 alone. According to one study conducted by the University Of Maryland Medical Center, people receiving a CoQ10 supplement within three days of a cardiac arrest were less prone to chest pain and less vulnerable to fatal heart illness. Another study suggested that CoC10, when given prior to surgery, could help to minimize free radical damage and strengthen overall heart function.
However, it appears that selenium and CoQ10 in combination deliver the best results.
How Adrenal Fatigue Affects Heart Health
Day to day commitments, hectic schedules, and personal problems can gradually invite stress into your life. Stress eventually takes a toll on your entire system, including your heart. In fact, stress is the root cause of numerous health problems, including an increasingly common condition known as Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome (AFS). Experiencing high levels of fatigue is a major problem.
Many people struggle to cope with their daily activities due to acute tiredness. Those with AFS can experience fatigue, brain fog, difficulty walking, insomnia, trembling, reduced concentration, and low energy levels. Numerous people suffering from adrenal fatigue are unaware of the problem they are confronting. In the later phases of AFS, adrenal exhaustion occurs, and there can be an abrupt onset of anxiety attacks, heart palpitation, dizziness, and fluctuating blood pressure.
The body’s natural self-regulatory system, known as the NeuroEndoMetabolic (NEM) Stress Response, helps protect the body from excess stress. There are six major circuits within the NEM response, including the cardiotoxic circuit. All of these circuits can develop problems due to too much stress. The autonomic nervous system can become dysfunctional, leading to an excess of adrenaline which in turn can trigger heart palpitations. Studies show that anxiety attacks and heart attacks are closely related.
According to a study at the University of Adelaide, people with panic attacks were found to be more likely to develop heart disease by 47% and had a 36% higher risk of heart attack. The study suggested that people with panic attacks need to keep a close watch on their heart health. Thus, managing stress and reducing anxiety levels is an important part of recovering from AFS and reducing the risk of heart attack.
Apart from stress, selenium deficiency is also known to cause adrenal issues. Supplying your body with adequate selenium benefits the adrenals. This may be due to the ability of a selenium supplement to act as an antioxidant, thus helping AFS and reducing the risk of heart issues.
Benefits of a Selenium Supplement
U.S epidemiological studies have shown that getting the recommended intake of selenium reduces the risk of developing heart attack and certain forms of cancer. These studies also indicated that countries with low average selenium intake displayed higher mortality rates from cancer and heart attack.
Thus, a selenium supplement shows the ability to provide important health benefits. It is used to help improve hardened arteries and heart and blood vessel issues including stroke. Selenium also appears to help protect from various types of cancer. It is also used on people with chronic fatigue syndrome, thyroid disorder, arsenic poisoning, hay fever, rheumatoid arthritis, infertility, mood disorders, and to prevent miscarriage.
The other selenium supplement benefits include:
Reducing oxidative stress
Helping correct adrenal gland disorders
Enhancing blood flow
Reducing risks of heart illness
Ensuring proper functioning of CoQ10 in the body
Protecting cells from the harmful effects of free radicals
Helping protect against cancer and atherosclerosis
Reducing side effects caused by cancer chemotherapy
Supporting a stronger immunity system
Promoting healthy nails and hair
It’s important to note, however, that your intake of a selenium supplement needs to be within recommended amounts, as excess can lead to an overdose.
Sources of Selenium and CoQ10
Your body gets selenium from the food you eat. Selenium is found in wheat germ, Brazil nuts, and brewer’s yeast. Other sources of selenium include whole grains, liver, fish, and sunflower seeds. Eating unprocessed, whole, organic foods is important because the refining process destroys selenium in foods.
The selenium content in foods also greatly depends on the amount of selenium in the soil. Crops grown in soil with high levels of selenium have been known to contain higher quantities of selenium. The Pacific Northwest and Eastern Coastal plain in the U.S have selenium-poor agricultural soils. It may be necessary to address this deficiency by taking a selenium supplement.
CoQ10 is produced by the body, but the amount produced drops with age. Liver, whole grains, and oily fish such as tuna or salmon are all great sources of CoQ10. You can take supplements as well, but be sure to consult your doctor.
Please follow and like us:
Posted on May 27, 2018
By Daryl James
Nutrition
Adrenal Fatigue
Crafty Homemade Lip Balm for Better Health
At a time when we are all using so many beauty products, some 24 hours a day, it’s important to think about what goes into the things we put on our bodies. The skin absorbs good moisturizers, as well as the toxins present in most store-bought cosmetics. By making a few of the things that you use on a daily basis at home naturally, you can start to limit the levels of harmful substances that enter your body. Homemade lip balm is a great start.
The frequency at which our bodies are exposed to chemicals is alarming, to say the least. Anything you can do to mitigate chemical contact is a good idea.
This homemade lip balm is all natural, easy to make, and works better than most store-bought alternatives.
﻿
Homemade Lip Balm
Getting started may be easier than you think. The ingredients for this homemade lip balm recipe are all natural, as well as whole-food based.
Ingredients:
2 tbsp cocoa butter
2 tbsp coconut oil
2 tbsp beeswax
1 tsp pure vanilla extract
Preparation Instructions:
Use a grater or chop the beeswax and butter if they’re solid. A lot of this will depend on the temperature that they’re stored in. If they’re already out of solid form, you can skip this step.
Measure equal parts of each ingredient – beeswax, butter, and coconut oil – into a small mason jar, packing it down tightly.
Put about 2 inches of water into a small pot and place the mason jar in the center of the pot. You can use medium heat to warm the contents of the jar until all of the contents melt together.
As soon as the contents are melted, remove the jar from the pot and slowly stir in the vanilla extract. Make sure you are careful when removing the jar not to burn yourself as it will be quite hot!
Take the hot mixture and pour it into storage containers of your choice, and then place them in the refrigerator to complete the cooling process.
Note that other products can be used in place of vanilla extract depending on your preference of flavor.
Enjoy your homemade lip balm and share it with your friends!
Why Using Natural Products Is Important
You might think that it’s not a big deal to use conventional lip balms and other store-bought products that have been on the market for years. The problem comes when all these separate products begin to add up, culminating in a much higher level of toxicity than your body was meant to handle.
A lot of extra toxicity overworks your liver which can lead to the inability to detoxify properly. The liver is responsible for the majority of the detoxification process. Though there are many things you can to help your liver recover, the first step is to cut down on how many harmful chemicals you introduce into your system in the first place.
Toxicity and Stress
The system through which our bodies handle stress is known as the NeuroEndoMetabolic (NEM) Stress Response. This system explains the entire stress response process, from neurotransmitter signals in the brain to the physical changes that take place in the body. A hormonal cascade responds to stress by releasing large amounts of cortisol into the body.
Cortisol is a hormone produced and released by the adrenal glands, located on top of the kidneys, which has several effects. For a healthy individual experiencing stress, cortisol levels peak and then normalize when stress subsides. The NEM Stress Response is an efficient mechanism, and when it isn’t overworked, it functions quite well.
Problems begin to occur when the NEM Stress Response is overworked, and the adrenal glands cannot produce enough cortisol to do their duty. This causes cortisol levels to spike or crash and can lead to a condition known as Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome (AFS).
There are many issues associated with AFS. You can experience low energy levels, brain fog, and disruptions in nutrient uptake. A common problem in people suffering from AFS is an inability to detoxify properly.
The Liver and Toxins
When you have elevated cortisol levels due to stress, a reaction takes place in the liver which is called upon to release glucose tied to protein stores there. This excess glucose demand not only raises blood sugar levels, but it also depletes glucose in the liver, stressing the organ.
When the liver is overworked due to high stress or AFS, it can’t cleanse the body of toxins in the way it’s meant to. A high toxicity environment occurs, causing chaos in the body and negative effects. Toxicity is linked to anxiety, joint pain, and depression; just to name a few.
It’s important to note that making a small change, like replacing store-bought lip balm with homemade lip balm, won’t make a huge difference in for AFS. But it is not about making a single change to your routine to help your liver cope with toxins and recover from AFS. It’s about making many small changes. We all need to consider how the items that we’re using on a daily basis can affect our overall health. There is never going to be a single silver bullet to solve all of our problems, but by the same token, we have to start detoxifying somewhere.
Cosmetics are some of the worst toxic offenders, especially for women as they tend to use more than men. Cutting down on your usage of these products or finding natural alternatives is a great first step to helping your liver and body recover from AFS.
Not everyone has the time or the inclination to create their own products at home, but there has been a move in many industries to create more natural products for purchase. This is a welcome change, and it’s a good idea to look into other products you can replace with natural substitutes. It may be possible to mitigate some of the problems linked to AFS, as well as improve your liver function when you begin to take control of what is going onto your body get more information.
Please follow and like us:
Posted on May 23, 2018
By Daryl James
Nutrition
Adrenal Fatigue
The Principles of Homeopathy
With a rise in obesity, an increase in various cardiovascular conditions, and type 2 diabetes developing earlier and earlier, more and more people are turning towards natural healing for innumerable ailments. You may personally know friends or family members who practice holistic health, use essential oils, or swear by the principles of homeopathy.
Homeopathy was first developed at the end of the 18th century by a German physician known as Dr. Samuel Hahnemann. It is a comprehensive system of healing using natural processes rather than the pharmaceutical, engineered medications many uses today. It is an alternative medicine movement with a broad following visit this site right here
.
Dr. Hahnemann firmly believed that your entire mind, body, and spirit are affected when an illness takes over your body. The objective of homeopathy is to relieve you as a whole (body, mind, and spirit), not by focusing on the ailment, but by focusing on your entire being. Rather than lab made pharmaceutical drugs, the principles of homeopathy dictate that remedies are made with the use of natural plants and minerals. Homeopathic remedies are used widely in England, India, and many other European countries today.
Homeopathy is derived from the Greek words of homes, which means similar, and pathos, which means suffering. Hahnemann verified through his research that with the use of similar, healing can take place.
The way similar work is that, if a substance can develop an ailment in a person who is healthy, it is then used to provoke healing in someone who is already ill with a similar ailment.
Hahnemann supposed that your whole body, not just the physical body, but your mind and soul, will all show symptoms when you are sick. His medical philosophy held that the symptoms you face when you are sick are just your body’s ordinary response to the struggle to regain its health.
Both historically and today, people have used homeopathic medicine as a gentle healing process for long-term illnesses such as ongoing allergies, rheumatoid arthritis, irritable bowel syndrome, and atopic dermatitis. However, homeopathic medicine is not appropriate for serious health conditions such as cancer, heart conditions, or major infections in your body.
The Principles of Homeopathy
The principles of homeopathy consist of four fundamental principles that create the foundation of the system.
The Cornerstone Principle
The first one is known as the cornerstone principle. It comes from the Greek words similia similibus current, which translates as, “let likes be cured by likes”. Dr. Hahnemann believed that your entire body, soul, and spirit are all affected when your body gets sick. Using similar substances to restore health is what he developed his system by.
He additionally states that when you show symptoms of illness when you are sick, some of the symptoms are indeed common to that sickness, but other symptoms are merely characteristics of you in your sickness. These indicators are unique to you as an individual, and they would be matched with a symptom remedy of the homeopathic remedy.
In this sense, the cornerstone principle emphasizes bio-individuality, rather than a one-size-fits-all approach. It’s extremely interesting, as many lab-made pharmaceutical medications are given using the same exact drug for anyone with the condition. The principles of homeopathy, on the other hand, suggest a completely different approach.
Homeopathy does not consist of a list of precise remedies for a given condition. Rather, all of the symptoms you may be experiencing will be taken into consideration, and the remedy will be formed based on what works best for you.
The Single Remedy
The single remedy principle, second of the principles of homeopathy, holds only one remedy should be given at a time to make it easier to see the results. It focuses on using just one homeopathic remedy since it would be much more difficult to establish what caused healing when multiple homeopathic remedies are used at the same time. This particular principle focuses on controlling the variables of the remedy used. Homeopathy attempts to do this because it does not focus on the actual cause of the ailment or sickness. Rather it’s a system aiming at eradicating the target symptoms that are produced.
However, Hahnemann abandoned this principle as ineffective after much experimentation.
The Minimum Dose
The third principle of homeopathy suggests that the minimum dose is always best. Miniscule doses of a remedy are used, and they are only given when it is necessary. This approach is to avoid too high of a dosage causing more symptoms. Likewise, if a dose is given when it is not needed, it is more likely to cause side effects.
Hahnemann also recommended that you repeat the same dosage for maximum results and minimal side effects. The repetition, nonetheless, will be based on your individual response to the remedy. This principle highlights that less is better when it comes to homeopathic healing.
The Potentized Remedy
Using potentized remedies is the last of the principles of homeopathy. This refers to the process used to prepare homeopathic remedies from substances that otherwise would cause illness. Remedies are diluted over and over again, interspersed with vigorous shaking procedures, to disperse the life-force of the original plant substance, until in most remedies no detectable active ingredient remains.
Potentized means a remedy has been prepared using the homeopathic standards, which includes the process of dilution and succession. Succussion is a medical term Hahnemann coined to explain the action of vigorously shaking the mixture and knocking it against a hard surface.
Vigorously shaking the remedy using such amount of force was believed to arouse the natural force in the medicine, and in order to successfully affect your vital force (the energy that maintains your life), a similarly energetic homeopathic force must be used as a remedy. This process of producing homeopathic remedies and medicines is used because it prevents adverse effects from developing.
The Principles of Homeopathy and AFS
For those suffering the effects of chronic stress and Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome (AFS), there has been some clinical experience that suggests homeopathy can be applied successfully in selected cases.
AFS is associated with chronic and prolonged stress, eventually damaging the health of your adrenal glands, which are like your stress supervisors. When you experience a stressor, your adrenal glands release anti-stress hormones, such as cortisol. At first, your adrenal glands are alerted and release hormones such as cortisol without any complications.
However, when you remain at a high level of stress, your system becomes overworked, your adrenals begin to feel strained, and it becomes difficult for them to release anti-stress hormones into your bloodstream. With chronic stress, the adrenal glands don’t get a break, and it may eventually damage your NeuroEndoMetabolic (NEM) Stress Response system.
This results in numerous symptoms, including, but not limited to, constantly feeling weak and fatigued, missing sleep, nervousness, indigestion, feeling sluggish and tired all day, insomnia, irritability and mood swings, inability to complete everyday normal tasks, irregular menstrual cycle, lack of sexual drive, and fluctuation in blood pressure levels. Eventually, your body reaches the point of adrenal exhaustion, in which your adrenal glands give up to the chronic pressure. At this point, the body is so desperate for energy that it begins to break down its own muscles.
How can the principles of homeopathy help with reversing and reducing the many symptoms caused by adrenal fatigue?
With AFS, there is an imbalance in the system, a fluctuation of hormones and metabolism, resulting in a state of exhaustion. In advanced cases of AFS, the body can be highly sensitive. Inability to tolerate nutritional supplementation, along with multiple chemical and food sensitivities, is the norm. Paradoxical reactions are common. For example, a calming nutritional supplement may lead to anxiety and panic attacks.
Why these reactions occur is unclear, and more research is needed. However, the use of modified homeopathy has been shown to be beneficial in such cases when properly monitored and titrated.
Please follow and like us:
Posted on May 18, 2018
By Daryl James
Nutrition
Adrenal Fatigue
Adrenal Fatigue: What causes it?
Have you ever asked yourself, “What is adrenal fatigue?” To some, this might be their first time to encounter this term but I bet they have been experiencing this condition for years now and only does not know what to call it or is unsure if there is really a medical term for this. To make things easier to understand I will present you with three commonly used definitions that are best to describe what is adrenal fatigue all about.
What is Adrenal Fatigue? It Means That You Are Tired And That You Have To Stop!
In day-to-day living, it might simply mean that you are tired. By tired being related to adrenal fatigue, it should mean that you must be extremely tired. Whatever it is you are doing, it surely causes your body to respond in a very slow manner in such a way that you are not able to cope with things bombarded to you. Of course, being tired is part of being human after all. Even robots get tired but they just can’t express it; all they have to do is break down, stop working and needs to get fixed.
What is Adrenal Fatigue? It Simply Means That You Are Burn-Out
Have you tried working for months straight without getting enough rest? Or having to sleep late and wake up early for a number of days just to finish a report? After all that trouble, it seems that you can’t take it anymore and that whatever you do to resolve your problem doesn’t work. My friend, you’re experiencing the burn-out. Yes, you need to go someplace else, sniff some fresh air, and have fun with your friends. Why? Because you are going to need it! Without these other “positive” stimulus you will go from burn-out to minor depression and you might just end up quitting the job you’ve learned to love just because of adrenal fatigue and trust me, you will not want that.
What is Adrenal Fatigue? It Just Means That You No Longer Have The Will To Go On
Do you find it difficult to get out of bed nowadays? Do you feel tired even after a long night’s sleep? It seems that you constantly ask, “Why do I do this? Why do I need to do that?” Often times you discover that the things you used to perceive as fun and pleasurable are now dull and lifeless. In the medical field, the term that as “anhedonia”, meaning lack of will. Sadly, you are showing adrenal fatigue symptoms. But don’t be blue; you can recover from it with proper knowledge and some effective techniques.
What is adrenal fatigue? I hope you can now answer that by yourselves and investigate if you’re experiencing it. Remember, it is not too late to start recovery. Although “resetting” or “rebooting” your life will take some time, it happens slowly but surely.
Please follow and like us:
Posted on March 7, 2018
By Daryl James
Health
Nutrition
Adrenal Fatigue
Search for:
Recent Posts
Driving Lessons in Queensland
5 Questions Dentists Need to Ask Payroll Service Providers
How to Create a Successful & Scalable Fitness Business
Decorative Antique Brass Stair Rods
How to Buy the Best Postal Tubes at Affordable Prices?
Proudly powered by WordPress • Displace theme by Anton Kulakov