Hair Loss Grafting, Transplants, and Other Treatments
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Hair Loss Treatments Home
Medical Reference
Features
Slideshows & Images
News Archive
Hair Loss Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quiz
Questions & Answers
Message Board
WebMDRx Savings Card
Skin Problems & Treatments Guide
Skin Discolorations
Chronic Skin Conditions
Acute Skin Problems
Skin Infections
Hair Loss Health Center
What Is Hair Loss?
Signs
Treatment
Prevention
Hair Loss In Women
How to Care for Thinning Hair
Related to Hair Loss
Alopecia Areata
Hair Loss Effluviums
Hair Transplant
Infectious Agents
Scalp Problems
Scarring Alopecia
Skin Problems
Hair Loss Reference
Find a Dermatologist
More Related Topics
Skin Problems and Treatments
Hair Loss
Reference
Out in the Open With Severe Psoriasis
Cosmetic Procedures for Hair Loss
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
What Are the Treatment Options for Hair Loss?
Who Is a Candidate for Hair Replacement?
Who Is Not a Candidate for Hair Replacement?
Common Hair Replacement Procedures
The most common cause of hair loss in both men and women is genetics. In fact, heredity accounts for 95% of all the cases of alopecia (baldness) in this country. The remaining 5% of the cases can be due to a number of things, including diet, stress, illness, and medications.
Factors that can cause hair loss include:
Medications, vitamins, or minerals. Drugs used to treat high blood pressure, heart problems, depression, or gout; chemotherapy or radiation treatment for cancer patients; unusually high levels of vitamin A or low levels of iron or protein; for women, birth control pills can cause hair loss.
Illness. Thyroid disease, severe infection, or flu; fungus infections such as ringworm of the scalp
For women, childbirth may cause temporary hair loss due to the changes that take place in the body. In some cases, adults or children may have a condition known as trichotillomania, in which there is a compulsion to pull out scalp hair, eyebrow hair, or eyelashes.
What Are the Treatment Options for Hair Loss?
Rogaine (topical minoxidil) and Propecia (finasteride) are the only drugs approved by the FDA to treat pattern baldness (hair loss resulting from hereditary causes).
Rogaine is a topical solution that is applied by directly rubbing it onto the scalp where hair growth is desired. Only about 10% to 14% of the people who try this lotion experience hair growth. However, Rogaine lotion can help to slow hair loss.
Propecia is the first pill that can treat male pattern hair loss. Like all prescription products, it should be given under a doctor's care. While it is effective, if treatment is discontinued, results may not be maintained.
Permanent hair loss can also be treated by hair replacement procedures, such as hair transplantation methods (such as micro-grafting, slit grafting, punch grafting), and by scalp reduction. The type of hair loss as well as the patient's circumstances and desires determine which hair replacement procedures are most suitable.
A procedure called PRP (platelet-rich plasma), used over the last decade to help people heal after joint surgery, is an option for some people with hair loss.
The patient's blood is separated in a centrifuge, separating platelets and plasma. The plasma, which is injected into areas of hair loss on the scalp for up to two years, helps to repair blood vessels, stimulate collagen production, and promote cell growth. The cost ranges from $500 and $1,000 per injection session.
Early research shows that PRP therapy is safe. Side effects may include minimal pain and redness at the injection site.
Continued
Who Is a Candidate for Hair Replacement?
Candidates for hair replacement procedures include:
Men with male-pattern baldness
Some women with female-pattern (genetic) hair loss
A person who has lost some hair as a result of burns or other scalp injuries
People who've experienced recent hair loss
Who Is Not a Candidate for Hair Replacement?
Hair replacement is not recommended for the following people:
Women with a diffuse, or wide-spread, pattern of hair loss
Those who do not have sufficient "donor" sites (hair-bearing portions of the head from which hair-bearing skin is taken)
People who form keloid scars that can result from trauma, surgery, burns, or radiation injury
Common Hair Replacement Procedures
Hair Grafting or Hair Transplant
Hair grafting -- also called a hair transplant -- is an outpatient hair replacement procedure performed in the dermatological surgeon's office. Micro grafts contain only one to two hairs per graft, while slit grafts contain between four and ten, and punch grafts hold 10-15 hairs. Also available are mini-grafts (containing two to four hairs) and strip grafts (long thin grafts containing 30 to 40 hairs). Local anesthetic is injected into the scalp and sedation is available if needed for relaxation and comfort.
What Happens During and After Hair Grafting?
In hair grafting, the dermatological surgeon first removes a portion of the hair-bearing scalp from the back of the head. Then, the surgeon cuts the removed scalp into small segments with varying amounts of hair in each graft, which, when transplanted into the balding area, produce a very subtle thickening and "natural" look.
With each session, 50 or more hair-bearing segments are usually transplanted. "Donor" sites are closed with stitches, which usually are then concealed by the surrounding hair. After the grafting session is complete, the scalp will be cleaned then covered with gauze and, if necessary, a bandage. Stitches will come out approximately 10 days later.
How Long Does Hair Grafting Take?
Several sessions may be needed to achieve satisfactory "fullness." After each session, a healing process of two to four months is usually recommended.
Will There Be Any Discomfort or Side Effects With Hair Grafting?
Continued
Most side effects that come with hair grafting usually go away within one to three weeks. Among the most common side effects are:
Swelling
Bruising around the eyes
Crusting on the "donor" and "recipient" sites of the scalp
A lack of feeling or sensation around the "donor" and "recipient" sites of the scalp
Itching at the "donor" site
Scalp Reduction
A scalp reduction is the removal of non-hair-bearing skin from the scalp so that the remaining hair-bearing skin can be stretched to fill in the bald area of the head. Scalp reduction can reduce as much as half of the bald area. It is a procedure performed to cover bald areas on the top and back of the head and is not found to be beneficial for the frontal hairline.
How Is Scalp Reduction Done?
The scalp is injected with local anesthetic and a bald segment of scalp is removed. The surrounding skin is then loosened and gently stretched so that the sections of hair-bearing scalp are brought together and closed with stitches. This procedure may also be performed along with hair grafting.
What Are the Side Effects of a Scalp Reduction?
There will be a little more pain experienced after scalp reduction surgery than after punch grafting. Headaches may occur and are treated with non-aspirin-based pain relievers. Mild scalp tightness may be felt for a few months.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Stephanie S. Gardner, MD on January 22, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
American Hair Loss Association: "Hair Loss Treatment."
emedicinehealth.com: "Hair Loss."
American Academy of Dermatology: "Hair loss: Diagnosis, treatment, and outcome."
Cleveland Clinic: "Hair Loss Got You Down? Platelet-Rich Plasma May Regrow It."
Khatu S. J Cutan Aesthet Surg, April-June 2014.
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
Top 10 Foods for Healthy Hair
Women's Hair Loss: Causes and Solutions
How to Care for Thinning Hair
Facts About Hair Transplants
Slideshow: What Your Hair and Scalp Say About Your Health
Raising Awareness of Alopecia Areata
further reading
Slideshow: Men's Hair Loss: Treatments and Solutions
Slideshow: Women's Hair Loss -- Thinning Hair Causes and Solutions
Men and Hair Loss: What Are the Options?
Men's Hair Loss Treatments
Understanding Hair Restoration
Natural Treatments for Hair Loss
Help for Hair Loss: Surgical Hair Restoration
Hair Loss Treatments Topics
Today on WebMD
Feed Your Head
Foods for healthier hair.
Why Do Some Men Go Bald?
Are genetics to blame?
Just for Men
How to keep the hair you have.
What is Hair Loss?
Understand the basics.
Recommended for You
Slideshow
What You Hair Reveals About Your Health
Article
How Much Hair Loss Is Normal?
Article
Caring for Thinning Hair
Article
Why Is My Hair Falling Out?
Article
Cosmetic Procedures for Hair Loss
Article
Rogaine and Propecia for Hair Loss
Quiz
Do You Know What Causes Hair Loss?
Tools & Resources
Your Hair and Your Health
Can You Prevent Hair Thinning?
Hair Loss in Children
Fighting Hair Loss in Women
Top Hair Care Secrets
Can Inflammation Cause Balding?
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.