Generic Imitrex. Buy cheap Sumatriptan 100 mg online in USA
Online Information on all Medications
Search Medications
Categories
Men's Health
Sildenafil Citrate Tadalafil Vardenafil Super P-Force ED Trial Packs view all
Antibiotics
Amoxil Zithromax Doxycycline Augmentin view all
Weight loss
Lipitor Lopid Xenical view all
Women's Health
Womenra Angeliq Diflucan view all
Blood pressure-cardio
Cholesterol reducers
Acne Products
Roaccutane Zineryt view all
Herbal
Pain relief
Stomach problems
Stop smoking
Home > Pain relief > Imitrex
Imitrex
Generic Imitrex
Generic Imitrex 25mg
Generic Imitrex 50mg
Imitrex belongs to the class of triptans and is indicated for acute treatment of migraines in adults. It works by narrowing blood vessels in the head, thus helping to relieve headaches. The drug is not meant for migraine prevention. A 50mg tablet should be taken right after the migraine onset. It is an optimal effective dose, which can be repeated in not less than 2 hours. The maximum daily human dose is 200mg.
Generic Imitrex 100mg
Imitrex is a prescription drug administered to relieve the symptoms of migraines and cluster headaches. It cannot prevent migraine episodes, but if the attack has already happened, it can relieve the pain, nausea, light sensitivity and other migraine-associated symptoms. Imitrex works by stimulating specific receptors in the blood vessels of the brain, which leads to the constriction of the vessels (it's believed that dilation of these vessels causes migraine).
Similar medications
Maxalt
Prednisone
Celebrex
Baclofen
Zanaflex
What is Imitrex?
Imitrex is a prescription medication used to relieve and reduce migraine headaches with or without aura. Imitrex works only if the headache has already started, it will not prevent an attack or reduce the number of migraine episodes. Imitrex can also be administered for the treatment of cluster headaches.
How does Imitrex work?
Sumatriptan is the active component of Imitrex. It belongs to the class of medications known as specific and selective agonists of 5HT1-receptors or triptans. By activating these receptors in the system of the carotid arteries, Imitrex causes their constriction without affecting the cerebral blood flow. The dilation and edema of these arteries are thought to be the cause of migraine attacks.
How to take Imitrex?
Imitrex is manufactured in the form of pills in the following dosages - 25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg; and in the form of a nasal spray. The choice of the dose in every particular case should be made by a doctor taking into account individual characteristics of a patient. If a migraine attack returns or the patient has partially responded to the initial dose, a second dose may be taken after 2 hours. The therapeutic effect can be observed in about 30 minutes after taking the medicine. The maximum daily dose of Imitrex should not exceed 200 mg.
What side effects can be caused by Imitrex?
Like any other medicine, Imitrex may cause some unpleasant adverse reactions, but some symptoms may be provoked by the headache itself. The list of Imitrex side effects include:
Allergic reactions - hives, rash, swollen lips, face or eyelids.
Pressure, heaviness, pain or tightness in the chest, or other parts of the body.
Unusual sensations including feeling of warmth or cold, numbness or tingling.
Nausea or vomiting.
Dizziness, fatigue, sleepiness.
Pain in the muscles.
Increase in blood pressure.
Imitrex may also cause serious side effects (cerebrovascular events, myocardial ischemia, etc.). To know more about its adverse reactions please talk to your doctor.
Are there any contraindications to taking Imitrex?
Imitrex is contraindicated in people who have:
History or symptoms of coronary artery vasospasm, coronary heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, angina, transient ischemic attack or stroke.
Basilar or hemiplegic migraine.
Uncontrolled hypertension.
Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan or other components of the drug.
Severe hepatic impairment.
Ischemic bowel disease.
Imitrex should not be used together with MAO-A inhibitors or other 5-HT1 agonists.
Popular articles
Buying Drugs Online
Generics Brands
Impotence
Male Pattern Baldness
Premature Ejaculation
Healthy Living Advices
Women's Health
Obesity
Smoking Cessation
Stomach Problems
Blood Preassure & Cardio
Health blog
Info Pages
Contact us
Copyright © 2019 Ok-Pharmacy.com. All Rights Reserved.
Ok-Pharmacy.com does not offer doctor's professional advice. See additional information.