Can Selenium Lower Risk of Advanced Prostate Cancer? - MedicineNet
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/cancer center/ cancer a-z list/ can selenium lower risk of prostate cancer? article
Can Selenium Lower Risk of Advanced Prostate Cancer?
By Amanda Gardner
HealthDay Reporter
Latest Cancer News
Genomics Improve Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer
Jury Awards $29.4 Million in Talcum Powder Case
Scientists Spot Clues to Predicting Breast Cancer
AI Takes Aim at Lung Cancer Screening
1st Immunotherapy Drug for Breast Cancer Approved
Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters!
TUESDAY, April 9 (HealthDay News) -- Men who have higher levels of the mineral known as selenium may also face a lower risk of developing advanced prostate cancer, new research suggests.
The authors of the study said the mineral -- found in foods such as Brazil nuts, in supplements and in foods grown in selenium-rich soil -- might one day offer a way to reduce prostate cancer risk in men.
"There is very little evidence on modifiable prostate cancer risk factors," said study author Milan Geybels. "Any compound that would prevent the incidence of advanced prostate cancer would have a substantial impact on public health."
Geybels, who is a doctoral candidate in cancer epidemiology at Maastricht University in Maastricht, the Netherlands, was scheduled to present the findings Tuesday at the annual meeting of the American Association of Cancer Research, in Washington, D.C. Data and conclusions presented at medical meetings typically are considered preliminary until published in a peer-reviewed journal.
Still, the findings should not be construed as an endorsement of selenium supplements, experts warned.
"At this point, I wouldn't recommend that all men run out and buy a bottle of selenium to take," said Dr. Elise Cook, an associate professor of clinical cancer prevention at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
Too much selenium can be toxic, resulting in skin problems, and may even be associated with an increased risk of diabetes, Cook said. Getting selenium from dietary sources, however, shouldn't be a problem.
Cancer researchers have been interested in the supposed benefits of selenium on prostate cancer for years, until results from a large trial several years ago showed that selenium, taken either alone or with vitamin E, did not prevent prostate cancer.
"Before that, selenium supplements had been flying off the shelves," said Dr. Alexander Kutikov, an associate professor of urologic oncology at Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. "Enthusiasm [for selenium] was really dampened by that trial."
But that study looked at men with normal selenium levels when they entered the trial, and it did not focus on a specific type of prostate cancer. This latest study looked only at men who were deficient in selenium and tracked only cases of advanced prostate cancer, which is linked with a poor prognosis.
Among a group of almost 60,000 men aged 55 to 69 at the beginning of the study, the researchers found that men with the highest selenium levels, as measured in toenail clippings, had more than a 60 percent reduced risk for advanced prostate cancer.
Selenium levels in toenail clippings indicate long-term selenium intake, the researchers noted. The large trial from several years ago measured blood levels of the mineral, which reflects only recent exposure.
Still, the study is "hypothesis-generating at best," Kutikov said. Although the findings suggested an association between selenium levels and advanced prostate cancer risk, they did not prove a cause-and-effect link.
Geybels said the results could point the way to another trial assessing risk for advanced prostate cancer in men with low selenium levels.
Copyright © 2013 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR NEXT NEWS ARTICLE
SOURCES: Milan Geybels, M.Sc., doctoral candidate, cancer epidemiology, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Elise Cook, M.D., associate professor, clinical cancer prevention, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston; Alexander Kutikov, M.D., associate professor, urologic oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia; April 9, 2013, presentation, American Association of Cancer Research annual meeting, Washington, D.C.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Related Article
Prostate Cancer Symptoms, PSA Test, Treatments
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men. Learn the signs and symptoms of prostate cancer, along with causes and treatments. Know the stages, survival rates and lower your risk of prostate cancer.
Read more: Prostate Cancer Symptoms, PSA Test, Treatments
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth