Yoga therapy for Asthma – AyurvedDoctor
AyurvedDoctor
Collection of Home remedies with directory of Ayurvedic Doctors
Home Remedies
Ayurved
Yoga
Naturopathy
Search a Doctor
Videos of the Day
Quiz
Yoga
Yoga therapy for Asthma
Research indicates that yoga is one of the best alternative forms of treatment that helps to reduce the intensity of the asthma attacks and also contributes to a faster treatment of asthma. Regular practice of yoga asanas is highly beneficial as they enhance the airflow of the lungs, increase the air capacity and also improve the efficiency and stamina.
Here are some of the yogic ways through which you can keep your asthma at bay
Dandasana: This yogic asana is a good therapy for asthma. Just sit with an erect spine and keep your knees bent and then place your palms on either side of your hips and rest on the hips. Straighten your legs and then bring your legs closer to each other in the inward direction. Stretch your knees and toes and stretch the calf muscles. Extend your arms and elbows and then lift your abdomen for one minute. Hold this position for 30 seconds. Dandasana, when practiced regularly, brings down the level of asthma attacks.
Pranayama: It is one of the best breathing exercises which patients with asthma should practice. Place one finger on one of the nostril and inhale through the other nostril and then exhale with the other nostril by slowly removing your finger. Repeat the procedure with the other nostril and see how it helps you calm down and treats asthma.
.
.
.
Dirga Pranayama: This is a normal process of cyclic breathing in which the lower abdomen, the upper chest, and ribcage are filled with air to fill the capacity of lungs. This process by enhancing the airflow of the lungs helps to counter asthma.
Ujjayi Pranayama: This breathing exercise helps to combat asthma caused due to cold air. It involves breathing through the nose by tightening the throat. It is just like sipping air with the help of a straw but is highly beneficial in treating asthma.
Kapalabhati Pranayama: This involves exhaling in a forceful manner with a significant amount of contraction of the muscles of the abdomen. The relaxation that follows should be used to inhale air. Repeat this process as it helps to strengthen the lungs and opens up the congestion.
If you are also affected by asthma, then practice these breathing exercises every day and see how it will bring down the levels of asthma in a gradual manner. However, for better results you will need to practice these exercises early in the morning.
You may also like..
Bhujangasana : Yoga
Gomukhasana : Yoga Pose
Dhanurasana-Bow Pose
Yoga for Menstrual Disorders
Paschimottanasana : Yoga Pose
← Yoga asanas for kids
Yoga to control anger →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Consult an Ayurveda Doctor
Dr.Shubham Garg
Dr. Priti Mangesh Deshmukh
Dr. Rasmita Raiguru
Dr. Shweta Raghuwanshi
Dr. Atul Bhatla
Search a Doctor
Email newsletter
Subscribe your email
Contact Us
If you have any question or suggestion related to our mission or website, please reach us at support@ayurveddoctor.com, we will get back to you as soon as possible. Please do not send any disease query to this email id, as this is managed by non-medical personnel.
Are you an Ayurvedic Doctor?
If you are an Ayurvda Doctor, we will be happy to add your profile in our website free of cost. You can submit your profile by clicking here .
You can also contact us by sending an email to support@ayurveddoctor.com with details like name, address, experience and contact no and/or email address etc. so that patients will be able to reach you directly when required.
Copyright © 2019 AyurvedDoctor. All rights reserved.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy