Ovary Pain: 5 Causes of Pain In Ovaries, Diagnosis, Treatment
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Ovarian Cysts Home
Medical Reference
Features
Slideshows & Images
Blogs
News Archive
Women's Health Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Find a Doctor
Message Board
Subscribe to Newsletters
Women's Health Guide
Screening & Tests
Diet & Exercise
Rest & Relaxation
Reproductive Health
Head to Toe
Related to Women's Health
ADHD in Women
Binge Eating Disorder
Birth Control
Breast Cancer
Endometriosis
Fertility
Infertility
Menopause
Manage Your Migraine
Osteoporosis
PMS
Uterine Fibroids
More Related Topics
Women's Health
Guide
Boost Your Chances of Pregnancy: 10 conception tips.
Ovarian Pain: Possible Causes, Diagnosis, and Treatments
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Ovarian Cysts
Ovarian Tumors
Ovarian Pain Caused by Endometriosis
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Ovarian Remnant Syndrome
The ovaries are an important part of the female reproductive system. Their job is twofold. They produce the hormones, including estrogen, that trigger menstruation. They also release at least one egg each month for possible fertilization.
A number of different conditions, from cysts to tumors, can cause ovarian pain. The ovaries are located in the lower abdomen. That means if you have ovarian pain, you'll most likely feel it in your lower abdomen -- below your belly button -- and pelvis. It's important to have any pelvic pain checked out by your regular doctor or obstetrician/gynecologist. Several different conditions can cause it.
Pain in the ovaries can either be acute or chronic. Acute ovarian pain comes on quickly (over a few minutes or days) and goes away in a short period of time. Chronic ovarian pain usually starts more gradually. Then it last for several months or longer.
Ovarian pain may be continuous. Or it may come and go. It may get worse with certain activities, such as exercise or urination. It can be so mild that you hardly notice it. Or pain in the ovaries can be so severe that it interferes with daily life.
The methods your doctor uses to diagnose ovarian pain will vary. They will be based on what the suspected cause might be. Regardless, your doctor will take a complete medical history, do a physical exam, and ask questions about your pain. The questions might include:
Where are you feeling the pain?
When did it start?
How often do you feel pain?
Does an activity make the pain better or worse?
How does it feel -- mild, burning, achy, sharp?
How does the pain affect your day-to-day life?
Diagnostic tests, such as ultrasound and other types of imaging, can zero in on the cause of the pain. Here is a rundown of some possible causes of ovarian pain and how they are diagnosed and treated.
Ovarian Cysts
Cysts are fluid-filled sacs that can form in the ovaries. They are very common in women, especially during the childbearing years. Often they form during the process of ovulation. It can happen when the egg is not released or when the sac -- follicle -- holding the egg doesn't dissolve after the egg is released. Ovarian cysts usually cause no symptoms and dissolve on their own. They can, though, create a dull ache or a sharp pain if the cyst is large and it ruptures.
Continued
Other symptoms of ovarian cysts:
Irregular menstrual periods
Pain during intercourse or bowel movements
Nausea or vomiting
Feeling full after eating a small amount
Bloating
How ovarian cysts are diagnosed
Pelvic exam. This exam may reveal a lump in the pelvic area.
Ultrasound. This scan uses sound waves to create an image of the ovaries. This helps the doctor determine the size and location of a cyst.
Treatment of ovarian cysts
Watchful waiting. Most ovarian cysts will go away on their own. If you don't have any bothersome symptoms, especially if you haven't yet gone through menopause, your doctor may advocate "watchful waiting." The doctor won't treat you. Instead, the doctor might check you periodically to see if there has been any change in your condition.
Laparoscopy. This is a form of surgery that uses small incisions and a tiny, lighted camera on the end of a metal tube that's inserted into the abdomen to remove small cysts. Larger cysts may need to be removed through a bigger incision in the abdomen. This is done with a technique called laparotomy.
Birth control pills . Birth control pills prevent ovulation. That, in turn, reduces the formation of new cysts.
Ovarian Tumors
Tumors can form in the ovaries, just as they form in other parts of the body. They can be either noncancerous (benign) or cancerous (malignant).
Other symptoms of ovarian tumors
Bloating or pressure in the abdomen
Urgent need to urinate
Indigestion
Diarrhea or constipation
Loss of appetite/feeling full
Unintentional weight loss or gain in the stomach area
How ovarian tumors are diagnosed
Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography(PET). These are detailed imaging scans that the doctor can use to find ovarian tumors. They allow the doctor to determine whether and how far the ovarian tumors have spread.
CA-125. This is a blood test to look for a protein that tends to be higher in some (but not all) women with ovarian cancer. CA-125 isn't effective as a screening test for ovarian cancer. But it can be checked in women with symptoms that might be caused by ovarian cancer.
Treatment of ovarian tumors
Laparotomy. This is surgery performed through an incision into the abdomen. The surgeon will remove as much of the tumor as possible. The removal of tumor tissue is called debulking. If the tumor is cancerous and has spread, the surgeon may also remove the ovaries, uterus, fallopian tubes, omentum (fatty tissue covering the intestines), and nearby lymph nodes. Laparoscopy and robotic surgery may also be used.
Chemotherapy. Chemotherapy involves drugs given through a vein (IV), by mouth, or directly into the abdomen. The drugs kill cancer cells. Because they kill normal cells as well, chemotherapy medications can have side effects. These can include nausea and vomiting, hair loss, kidney damage, and increased risk of infection. These side effects should go away after the treatment is stopped.
Radiation. This treatment uses high-energy X-rays to kill or shrink cancer cells. Radiation is either delivered from outside the body, or placed inside the body near the site of the tumor. This treatment also can cause side effects. These can include inflamed skin, nausea, diarrhea, and fatigue. Radiation is not often used to treat ovarian cancer.
Continued
Ovarian Pain Caused by Endometriosis
Every month, the lining of the uterus builds up in preparation to nourish a growing fetus. When an egg is not fertilized, that lining sheds and is released from the body via menstruation. In some women, tissue like the lining of the uterus develops elsewhere in the body. This tissue swells and bleeds each month. It has nowhere to shed, though, and may form scar tissue that can be very painful.
Other symptoms of endometriosis
Painful periods
Pain during intercourse
Heavy menstrual periods
Infertility
Pain with bowel movements
How endometriosis is diagnosed
Medical history and physical exam.
Ultrasound and MRI. These scans may help the doctor to spot endometriosis, if there is an endometrioma, a benign cyst, on the ovary or ovaries.
Laparoscopy. This procedure uses a thin lighted scope inserted into a tiny hole in the abdomen to allow the doctor to visualize the ovaries. The doctor may possibly remove a small sample of tissue for biopsy, a procedure in which the endometriosis may also be removed entirely.
Treatment of endometriosis
Pain medications. Drugs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) can help relieve some of the discomfort of endometriosis.
Birth control pills. The pill prevents the monthly buildup of endometrial tissue on the ovaries and anywhere else the endometriosis may be in the abdomen and pelvis. This makes periods lighter and reduces the symptoms of endometriosis.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRH agonists). These drugs reduce the amount of the hormone estrogen in the body. By slowing the growth of endometriosis, they limit its symptoms.
Laparoscopy and laparotomy. These are surgical procedures that let the doctor remove endometriosis on the ovaries and other places. If the endometriosis is extensive, the doctor may recommend a hysterectomy. This procedure removes the uterus and sometimes also the ovaries and fallopian tubes.
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection in the ovaries, uterus, or fallopian tubes. It is most often caused by sexually transmitted diseases like gonorrhea or chlamydia. It is one of the most common causes of pelvic pain in women.
Continued
Other symptoms of PID
Pain during intercourse
Fever
Vaginal discharge that may have a smell
Irregular menstrual bleeding
Diarrhea
Vomiting
Fatigue
Difficulty urinating
How PID is diagnosed
Pelvic exam. The exam will enable your doctor to look for any lumps, abnormal discharge, or tenderness in the pelvis.
Blood and urine tests. These lab tests can help identify the infection. So can cultures of any discharge seen during a pelvic exam.
Ultrasound. This test creates an image of the pelvic area so the doctor can see if the reproductive organs are enlarged. The doctor can also see if there is a pocket of infection known as an abscess.
Laparoscopy. Occasionally this procedure, which uses a thin lighted scope inserted into a tiny hole in the abdomen, is used to confirm the diagnosis.
Treatment of PID
Antibiotics. These drugs are given by mouth or through an injection. They can kill the bacteria that are causing PID. If you are taking antibiotics for PID, your sexual partner or partners should also get treated. There is a high likelihood that your partner has the same sexually transmitted infection.
Ovarian Remnant Syndrome
Surgery to remove the uterus and ovaries is known as hysterectomy and oophorectomy. A bilateral salping- oophorectomy is a procedure in which both fallopian tubes and ovaries are removed. In rare cases, a small piece of the ovary may accidentally be left behind. The remnant can grow and develop painful cysts.
Other symptoms of ovarian remnant syndrome
Pain during intercourse
Difficulty urinating
How ovarian remnant syndrome is diagnosed
Ultrasound, CT, and MRI. These scans create images of the area. They help the doctor locate the remaining piece of ovary tissue.
Treatment of ovarian remnant syndrome
Laparotomy or laparoscopy. These procedures are done to remove the remaining piece or pieces of ovary.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Nivin Todd, MD on October 17, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services: "Endometriosis."
CDC: "Pelvic Inflammatory Disease."
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists: "Pelvic Pain."
"Ovary." Katz, VL, Lentz, GM, Lobo, RA, Gershenson, DM. Comprehensive Gynecology. 5th ed. Mosby Elsevier, 2007.
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
Cysts on the Ovaries
Women's Health Guide
Screening & Tests
Diet & Exercise
Rest & Relaxation
Reproductive Health
Head to Toe
Top Picks
Treating RA With Biologics
Manage Your Migraine
How One Woman Manages Her MS
Best Treatments for Allergies
Vagina Quiz: What Do You Know About Down Below?
Your Guide to Understanding Medicare
further reading
Slideshow: What's Causing Your Pelvic Pain?
Slideshow: Surprising Reasons You're in Pain
Ovarian Cysts - Symptoms, Types, Treatment
The Basics of Infertility
Do I Have an Ovarian Cyst?
When Your Period Signals a Problem
A Mysterious Ailment
Ovarian Cysts Topics
Today on WebMD
Quiz: How to Prevent Yeast Infection
Test your knowledge.
Urinary Tract Infections
What causes them?
Which Birth Control Is Right for You?
Learn about your options.
8 Causes of Night Sweats
Is it menopause or something else?
Recommended for You
Slideshow
15 Ways to Indulge Yourself
VIDEO
Symptoms of Toxic Shock Syndrome
Assessment
Quit Smoking With This Personalized Plan
Quiz
Hormones: How Do They Work?
Slideshow
Essential Screenings for Women
Quiz
Painful Periods? Find Out Why
Assessment
Tips to Treat Yeast Infections
Quiz
Are My Breasts Normal?
Tools & Resources
Are You Ready To Quit Smoking?
Abnormal Vaginal Discharge
12 Signs of a Hormone Imbalance
Thyroid Symptoms and Solutions
Essential Women's Screenings
Tips for Living Better With Migraine
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.