RaceFuelZ Healthy Hydration Drinks & Mixes - A Naturally Colored, Flavored and Sweetened Vitamin & Mineral Energy Drink - “no monster amounts of sugar and no bull™” Refueling the human race, one drink at a time. - What FuelZ Us? Science!
Call Us: 888-248-2142
My CartLoading Register Login
Home
Drinks
Black Cherry 16oz can
Grapefruit Lime 16oz can
Orange Mango 16oz can
Wild Berries 16oz can
Mixed 12 Pack
4 Pack
Powder Mixes
Grapefruit Lime
Orange Mango
5 Pack & FREE Sport Bottle
Gear
Science
Potassium Benefits
Electrolyte Functions
Magnesium Benefits
B-12 Benefits
B-2 Benefits
Become a Dealer
Where to buy
AthleteZ
Contact
Menu	 HomeDrinks »Black Cherry 16oz can »Grapefruit Lime 16oz can »Orange Mango 16oz can »Wild Berries 16oz can »Mixed 12 Pack »4 PackPowder Mixes »Grapefruit Lime »Orange Mango »5 Pack & FREE Sport BottleGearScience »Potassium Benefits »Electrolyte Functions »Magnesium Benefits »B-12 Benefits »B-2 BenefitsBecome a DealerWhere to buyAthleteZContact
Just because our drink is based on science, doesn't mean that it needs to taste that way.
Dr. Octane
How we got started.
Our founder has led an active lifestyle, everything from skydiving, rock climbing, downhill mountain biking and of course road racing motorcycles. It was all of these activities that led him in his search for a healthier electrolyte drink to use, not finding anything that would match his criteria and during the time he was contesting his first Motorcycle Road Racing championship in 2002, that our founder, Michael Aron, began to formulate and develop RaceFuelZ, a healthier hydration and recovery drink. The goal was to make a non caffeinated, low in sugar, high in potassium and packed with vitamins and minerals.
Understanding the needs of an athlete, Michael worked alongside the best flavor and nutritional developers in the United States, gathering essential data from experts and top-tier athletes alike to create RaceFuelZ.
How we compare to other energy drinks.
Based on an impressive number of athlete reviews and based on their successes with RaceFuelZ, we are confident that we've produced the best product available on the market. One of the main goals was to make sure the product tasted amazing. It was tricky combining a healthy dose of vitamins alongside a great tasting product, but after years of development, we're proud to say that we have achieved this task.
We believe that proper nutrition equals energy, and the same goes for proper hydration. By the time you are thirsty, you have already lost two percent of your body water, resulting in decreased performance and endurance, both physically and mentally. By utilizing the science of osmolytes, which are essential in aiding cell structure regeneration, maximizing power, endurance and thus reducing fatigue, we have raised the bar on what it means to be properly hydrated.
RaceFuelZ uses no artificial flavors or sweeteners in any of our drink products. We believe that by putting the best in, you can get the best out.
The proof is on the podium.
In 2014, while announcing the launch of RaceFuelz, Gage McAllister put us on the podium with a 2nd place finish at Daytona International Speedway. Since then, we have gone on to take over 50 podium placements and secure 14 championships with motorcycle road and supermoto racers. (Right: Martin Cardinez shown at the RaceFuelZ Pro Superbike race 2014)
Next steps
As we all lead busy lives, you needn’t be an athlete to glean the benefits of RaceFuelZ. Everyone needs to stay hydrated to keep balanced and alert, so we continue to expand our reach to all walks of life; civil servants, actors, doctors and nurses, moms and dads, students and teachers.
Prev
Thirsty?
4 Pack
$6.65
Black Cherry
$19.95
Grapefruit Lime
$14.95
Grapefruit Lime
$19.95
Mixed 12 Pack
$19.95
Orange Mango
$14.95
Orange Mango
$19.95
B-12 Benefits
Overview
B-12 can help boost your:
energy
concentration
memory
mood
What is vitamin B-12?
Vitamin B-12, or cobalamin, is a nutrient you need for good health. It’s one of eight B vitamins that help the body convert the food you eat into glucose, which gives you energy. Vitamin B-12 has a number of additional functions.
You need it for the:
production of elements of DNA
production of red blood cells
regeneration of bone marrow and the lining of the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts
health of your nervous system, which includes your spinal cord
prevention of megaloblastic anemia
How much vitamin B-12 to take
The amount of vitamin B-12 you need is primarily based on your age. The average recommended daily amounts of vitamin B-12 are:
birth to 6 months old: 0.4 micrograms (mcg)
7-12 months: 0.5 mcg
1-3 years: 0.9 mcg
4-8 years: 1.2 mcg
9-13 years: 1.8 mcg
14-18 years: 2.4 mcg
19 and older: 2.4 mcg
pregnant teens and women: 2.6 mcg
breast-feeding teens and women: 2.8 mcg
Vitamin B-12 is naturally in foods that come from animals, including:
meat
fish
eggs
dairy products
It also may be in some fortified cereals and nutritional yeast.
What is a vitamin B-12 deficiency?
Although most Americans get enough vitamin B-12, some people are at an increased risk of vitamin B-12 deficiency, particularly those who:
have celiac disease
have Crohn’s disease
have HIV
take prescription antacids, anti-seizure medications, colchicine, or chemotherapy medications
are vegans and don’t eat meat or dairy products
drink alcohol regularly
have an immune dysfunction
have a history of bowel disease, such as gastritis or Crohn’s disease
The symptoms of vitamin B-12 deficiency include:
shakiness
muscle weakness
muscle stiffness
muscle spasticity
fatigue
incontinence
low blood pressure
mood disturbances
The most serious condition associated with vitamin B-12 deficiency is megaloblastic anemia. This is a chronic blood disorder in which the bone marrow produces overly large, immature blood cells. As a result, the body doesn’t have enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen around the body.
B-2 Benefits
Vitamin B-2: What Does It Do?
Vitamin B-2, or riboflavin, is naturally in some foods. It’s present in other foods in synthetic form. Vitamin B-2 and the other B vitamins help your body build red blood cells and support other cellular functions that give you energy. You’ll get the most out of the B vitamins if you take supplements or eat foods that contain all of them.
These functions include the breakdown of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates. You may have experienced an energy boost from taking supplements containing B vitamins.
Getting enough vitamin B-2
Eat a healthy and balanced diet to get enough vitamin B-2. It’s present at the levels most people need in dairy products, including cottage cheese and milk.
Other sources include:
egg yolks
red meat
dark meat
salmon
tuna
soybeans
almonds
grains, such as wheat
It’s sensitive to light and perishable, however. Grain products may not have much naturally occurring riboflavin by the time they get to your table. This is why it’s sometimes added in processing.
Riboflavin is often a supplement in cereal and bread, and it can be present as food coloring in candy. If you’ve ever consumed a lot of B vitamins, you might have noticed a dark yellow tinge to your urine. This color comes from the riboflavin.
Deficiency is still a risk
Having a riboflavin deficiency can lead to other nutritional deficiencies because riboflavin is involved with processing nutrients. The primary concern associated with other deficiencies is anemia, which happens when you don’t get enough iron. It’s especially important to make sure you get enough riboflavin in your diet if you’re pregnant. A riboflavin deficiency could endanger your baby’s growth and increase your chances of preeclampsia, which involves dangerously high blood pressure during pregnancy. The most severe complication of preeclampsia is a lack of blood flow to the placenta. Riboflavin deficiency is rare in places where people have access to fresh foods or supplemental vitamins. Talk to your doctor if you’re experiencing the symptoms of riboflavin deficiency. You may actually have a problem absorbing nutrients. Celiac disease and Crohn’s disease are other possible causes of symptoms associated with riboflavin deficiency.
Getting too much vitamin B-2
The primary risk of excess B-2 is damage to the liver. However, excess riboflavin, or riboflavin toxicity, is rare. You’d have to eat almost impossibly large quantities of food to overdose on riboflavin naturally. You could get too much vitamin B-2 through supplements in oral or injection form, but this is also rare because your body doesn’t store the vitamin.
B-6 Benefits
Overview
Vitamin B-6, or pyridoxine, is one of eight B vitamins. The nutrients from this essential vitamin family are necessary for vital functions throughout your body. These functions include reducing stress as well as maintaining overall good health.
Vitamin B-6 is often lacking in the average American diet. It’s available in supplement form, but you can also up your intake with these 15 foods. It’s always best to take in your vitamins through foods.
Readily available in food as well as dietary supplements, vitamin B6 is important for a number of bodily functions. Discover the many vitamin B6 benefits.
The family of B vitamins, which are also known as B complex vitamins, plays an important role in converting food into energy and helping the body metabolize fats and proteins. The B vitamins are also important for healthy hair, skin, liver, and eyes. Vitamin B6, or pyridoxine, is one in this group of eight vitamins. Vitamin B6 helps a lot of the systems in your body function,” says Dee Sandquist, MS, RD, CD, a spokesperson for the American Dietetic Association. “It is important for cardiovascular, digestive, immune, muscular, and nervous system function. It is one of the vitamins that are behind the scenes.” The B6 vitamin is needed for proper brain development and function and to make the hormones serotonin and norepinephrine, which affect mood. Vitamin B6 also helps the body make melatonin, which is important in helping regulate your internal clock.
How Much Should I take?
All B vitamins are water-soluble, which means that they dissolve in the body’s fluids, and any unneeded amounts are excreted in the urine — the body is not able to store any leftover B vitamin for future needs. You need sources of vitamin B6 as well as the other B vitamins every day. The exact amount of B6 vitamin you need depends on your age, gender, and any special circumstances, such as whether you’re pregnant or breastfeeding. Here is an overview of how much B6 vitamin people need at different stages of life:
Children
Newborn to 6 months: 0.1 milligram (mg) per day Infants 7 months to 1 year: 0.3 mg
Children 1 to 3 years: 0.5 mg
Children 4 to 8 years: 0.6 mg
Children 9 to 13 years: 1 mg
Boys 14 to 18 years: 1.3 mg
Girls 14 to 18 years: 1.2 mg
Adults
Men and women 19 to 50 years: 1.3 mg
Men 51 years and older: 1.7 mg
Women 51 years and older: 1.5 mg
Pregnant women: 1.9 mg
Breastfeeding women: 2.0 mg
Most people who eat a well-balanced, varied diet will get the required amount of vitamin B6 without having to take dietary supplements. The recommended amount for an average adult under age 50 is 1.3 milligrams — you can easily get that from food.
For older adults, however, getting enough vitamin B6 may be a problem. After age 50, the recommended amount of vitamin B6 is 1.7 mg for men and 1.5 mg for women. This can be a challenge for older Americans who may be living alone and cooking less. Older people should ask about having their vitamin B6 levels tested by their doctor, she suggests.
Benefits of Magnesium
Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the human body. It plays several important roles in the health of your body and brain. However, you may not be getting enough of it, even if you eat a healthy diet. Here are some health benefits of magnesium that are supported by modern scientific research.
1. Magnesium is Involved in Hundreds of Biochemical Reactions in Your Body
Magnesium is a mineral found in the earth, sea, plants, animals and humans.
About 60% of the magnesium in your body is found in bone, while the rest is in muscles, soft tissues and fluids, including blood.
In fact, every cell in your body contains it, and needs it to function.
One of magnesium's main roles is acting as a cofactor or "helper molecule" in the biochemical reactions continuously performed by enzymes.
It is actually involved in more than 600 reactions in your body, including:
Energy creation: Helps convert food into energy.
Protein formation: Helps create new proteins from amino acids.
Gene maintenance: Helps create and repair DNA and RNA.
Muscle movements: Is part of the contraction and relaxation of muscles.
Nervous system regulation: Helps regulate neurotransmitters, which send messages throughout your brain and nervous system.
Unfortunately, studies suggest that about 50% of people in the US and Europe get less than the recommended daily amount of magnesium.
Bottom Line: Magnesium is a mineral that supports hundreds of chemical reactions in your body. However, many people get less than they need.
2. It May Boost Exercise Performance
Magnesium also plays a role in exercise performance.
During exercise, you may actually need 10–20% more magnesium than when you're resting, depending on the activity.
Magnesium helps move blood sugar into your muscles and dispose of lactic acid, which can build up in muscles during exercise and cause pain. Studies have shown that supplementing with it can boost exercise performance for athletes, the elderly and people with chronic disease.
In one study, volleyball players who took 250 mg per day experienced improvements in jumping and arm movements.
In another study, athletes who supplemented with magnesium for 4 weeks had faster running, cycling and swimming times during a triathlon. They also experienced reductions in insulin and stress hormone levels.
However, evidence is mixed. Other studies have found no benefit of magnesium supplements in athletes with low or normal levels.
Bottom Line: Magnesium supplements have been shown to enhance exercise performance in several studies.
3. Magnesium Fights Depression
Magnesium plays a critical role in brain function and mood, and low levels are linked to an increased risk of depression.
One analysis of over 8,800 people found that those under 65 years of age with the lowest intake had a 22% greater risk of depression.
Some experts believe the low magnesium content of modern food may be the cause of many cases of depression and mental illness.
However, others experts emphasize the need for more research in this area.
Nonetheless, supplementing with it may help reduce symptoms of depression, and in some cases the results can be dramatic.
In a randomized controlled trial of depressed older adults, 450 mg of magnesium improved mood as effectively as an anti-depressant drug.
Bottom Line: People with depression may be deficient in magnesium. Supplementing with it can reduce symptoms of depression in some people.
4. It Has Benefits Against Type 2 Diabetes
Magnesium also has beneficial effects against type 2 diabetes.
It's believed that about 48% of diabetics have low levels of magnesium in their blood. This can impair insulin's ability to keep blood sugar levels under control.
Additionally, research suggests that people with a low magnesium intake have a higher risk of developing diabetes.
One study followed more than 4,000 people for 20 years. It found that those with the highest intake were 47% less likely to become diabetic.
In another study, diabetics who took high doses of magnesium each day experienced significant improvements to blood sugar and Hemoglobin A1c levels, compared to a control group.
However, this may depend on how much you are getting from food. In a different study, supplements did not improve blood sugar or insulin levels in people who weren't deficient.
Bottom Line: People who get the most magnesium have a lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes, and supplements have been shown to lower blood sugar in some people.
5. Magnesium Can Lower Blood Pressure
Studies show that taking magnesium can lower blood pressure.
In one study, people who took 450 mg per day experienced a significant decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
However, these benefits may only occur in people who have high blood pressure.
Another study found that magnesium lowered blood pressure for people with high blood pressure, but had no effect on those with normal levels.
Bottom Line: Magnesium helps lower blood pressure when it is elevated, but does not seem to lower blood pressure for those with normal levels.
6. It Has Anti-Inflammatory Benefits
Low magnesium intake is linked to chronic inflammation, which is one of the drivers of aging, obesity and chronic disease.
In one study, children with the lowest blood magnesium levels were found to have the highest levels of the inflammatory marker CRP.
They also had higher blood sugar, insulin and triglyceride levels.
Magnesium supplements can reduce CRP and other markers of inflammation in older adults, overweight people and those with pre-diabetes.
In the same way, high-magnesium foods can reduce inflammation. These include fatty fish and dark chocolate.
Bottom Line: Magnesium has been shown to help fight inflammation. It reduces the inflammatory marker CRP and provides several other benefits.
7. Magnesium Can Help Prevent Migraines
Migraine headaches are painful and debilitating. Nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light and noise often occur.
Some researchers believe that people who suffer from migraines are more likely than others to be magnesium deficient.
In fact, a few encouraging studies suggest that magnesium can prevent and even help treat migraines.
In one study, supplementing with one gram provided relief from a migraine more quickly and effectively than a common medication.
Additionally, magnesium-rich foods may help reduce migraine symptoms.
Bottom Line: People who suffer from migraines may have low magnesium levels, and some studies have shown that supplementing can provide relief from migraines.
8. It Reduces Insulin Resistance
Insulin resistance is one of the leading causes of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes.
It's characterized by an impaired ability of muscle and liver cells to properly absorb sugar from the bloodstream.
Magnesium plays a crucial role in this process, and many people with metabolic syndrome are deficien.
In addition, the high levels of insulin that accompany insulin resistance lead to the loss of magnesium in the urine, further reducing your body's levels.
Fortunately, increasing magnesium intake can help.
One study found that supplementing reduced insulin resistance and blood sugar levels, even in people with normal blood levels.
Bottom Line: Magnesium supplements may improve insulin resistance in people with metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes.
9. Magnesium Improves PMS Symptoms
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is one of the most common disorders among women of child-bearing age.
Its symptoms include water retention, abdominal cramps, tiredness and irritability.
Interestingly, magnesium has been shown to improve mood in women with PMS, and may also reduce water retention and other symptoms.
Bottom Line: Magnesium supplements have been shown to improve symptoms that occur in women with premenstrual syndrome.
10. Magnesium is Safe and Widely Available
Magnesium is absolutely essential for good health. The recommended daily intake is 400–420 mg per day for men, and 310–320 mg per day for women.
You can get it from both food and supplements.
The following foods are good to excellent sources of magnesium:
Pumpkin seeds: 46% of the RDI in a quarter cup (16 grams).
Spinach, boiled: 39% of the RDI in a cup (180 grams).
Swiss chard, boiled: 38% of the RDI in a cup (175 grams).
Dark chocolate (70–85% cocoa): 33% of the RDI in 3.5 ounces (100 grams).
Black beans: 30% of the RDI in a cup (172 grams).
Quinoa, cooked: 33% of RDI the in a cup (185 grams).
Halibut: 27% of the RDI in 3.5 ounces (100 grams).
Almonds: 25% of the RDI in a quarter cup (24 grams).
Cashews: 25% of the RDI in a quarter cup (30 grams).
Mackerel: 19% of the RDI in 3.5 ounces (100 grams).
Avocado: 15% of the RDI in one medium avocado (200 grams).
Salmon: 9% of the RDI in 3.5 ounces (100 grams).
Supplements
If you have a medical condition, then check with your doctor before taking a supplement.
Although magnesium supplements are generally well-tolerated, they may not be safe for people who take certain diuretics, heart medications or antibiotics.
Supplement forms that are absorbed well include magnesium citrate, glycinate, orotate and carbonate.
Bottom Line: Getting enough magnesium is important. Many foods contain it, and there are also many high-quality supplements available.
Summary
Getting enough magnesium is essential for maintaining good health. Be sure to eat plenty of magnesium-rich foods, or take a supplement if you're unable to get enough from your diet alone. Without enough of this important mineral, your body simply can't function optimally.
Can I purchase at RaceFuelZ headquarters?
Sure you can! Or visit one of our local merchants and support their establishments, for a list look here. If you would like to purchase from us at our Richmond, CA warehouse you can visit us at 47 Paul Drive #8, San Rafael, CA 94903. Penthouse sweet. We’re typically here Monday through Friday 10am till 5pm.
Toll Free: 888-248-2142 x1
RaceFuelZ Mission
It's our mission to provide convenient and nutritious drinks and powder mixes to give your body the fuel it needs most. Healthy and delicious, RaceFuelZ—comes in our naturally flavored and sweetened 16oz energy drinks and convenient 10 gram powder packs that delivers a powerful dose of nutrients and provides an immediate, revitalizing burst of energy, without caffeine.
Use before, during or after a hard workout, or anytime during the day, give your body what it needs most to help recover and boost your immune system — vitamins, minerals and essential amino acids.
With only 2-4 grams of sugar per 16oz serving, our low-calorie, advanced electrolyte formula not only provides a significant amount of vitamins, but also delivers a superior hydration with incredible tastes. RaceFuelZ boosts energy without the hard sudden crash associated with other sport energy drinks.
16oz can flavors: Black Cherry - Grapefruit Lime - Orange Mango - Wild Berries 16 oz can
Stick pack flavors: Grapefruit Lime - Orange Mango
RaceFuelZ, refueling the human race, one drink at a time.
Return Polilcy: If you're not completely satisfied with RaceFuelZ, let us know and we will either send you a replacement*, other flavor or you can simply return the product to us. We want happy customers and we will make it right. *You are responsible for shipping the product back to our warehouse, 80% of the box must be intact for a full refund.
RaceFuelZ Inc. 47 Paul Drive - Suite 8, San Rafael, CA 94903 888-248-2142 sales@racefuelz.com Made in the USA. Copyright 2002 - 2017
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
‡‡Not a replacement for cholesterol-lowering drugs. ^Based on using the USDA.gov nutrient database value for a large, raw orange. †Zinc and Manganese
RaceFuelZ, What FuelZ You, Refueling the human race, No monster amounts of sugar and no bull are registered trademarks of RaceFuelZ Inc. © 2002-2017 RaceFuelZ Inc. All Rights Reserved. Other products, names, text, and images are copyrights or trademarks of their respective owners.
Login or Register
Username
Password
Remember Me
fb iconLog in with Facebook
Forgot your password?
Forgot your username?