Symptoms and causes - Mayo Clinic
Achilles tendon rupture
Overview
Achilles (uh-KILL-eez) tendon rupture is an injury that affects the back of your lower leg. It mainly occurs in people playing recreational sports, but it can happen to anyone.
The Achilles tendon is a strong fibrous cord that connects the muscles in the back of your calf to your heel bone. If you overstretch your Achilles tendon, it can tear (rupture) completely or just partially.
If your Achilles tendon ruptures, you might hear a pop, followed by an immediate sharp pain in the back of your ankle and lower leg that is likely to affect your ability to walk properly. Surgery is often performed to repair the rupture. For many people, however, nonsurgical treatment works just as well.
Symptoms
Although it's possible to have no signs or symptoms with an Achilles tendon rupture, most people have:
The feeling of having been kicked in the calf
Pain, possibly severe, and swelling near the heel
An inability to bend the foot downward or "push off" the injured leg when walking
An inability to stand on the toes on the injured leg
A popping or snapping sound when the injury occurs
When to see your doctor
Seek medical advice immediately if you hear a pop in your heel, especially if you can't walk properly afterward.
Causes
Your Achilles tendon helps you point your foot downward, rise on your toes and push off your foot as you walk. You rely on it virtually every time you walk and move your foot.
Rupture usually occurs in the section of the tendon situated within 2 1/2 inches (about 6 centimeters) of the point where it attaches to the heel bone. This section might be prone to rupture because blood flow is poor, which also can impair its ability to heal.
Ruptures often are caused by a sudden increase in the stress on your Achilles tendon. Common examples include:
Increasing the intensity of sports participation, especially in sports that involve jumping
Falling from a height
Stepping into a hole
Risk factors
Factors that may increase your risk of Achilles tendon rupture include:
Age. The peak age for Achilles tendon rupture is 30 to 40.
Sex. Achilles tendon rupture is up to five times more likely to occur in men than in women.
Recreational sports. Achilles tendon injuries occur more often during sports that involve running, jumping, and sudden starts and stops — such as soccer, basketball and tennis.
Steroid injections. Doctors sometimes inject steroids into an ankle joint to reduce pain and inflammation. However, this medication can weaken nearby tendons and has been associated with Achilles tendon ruptures.
Certain antibiotics. Fluoroquinolone antibiotics, such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro) or levofloxacin (Levaquin), increase the risk of Achilles tendon rupture.
Obesity. Excess weight puts more strain on the tendon.
Prevention
To reduce your chance of developing Achilles tendon problems, follow these tips:
Stretch and strengthen calf muscles. Stretch your calf until you feel a noticeable pull but not pain. Don't bounce during a stretch. Calf-strengthening exercises can also help the muscle and tendon absorb more force and prevent injury.
Vary your exercises. Alternate high-impact sports, such as running, with low-impact sports, such as walking, biking or swimming. Avoid activities that place excessive stress on your Achilles tendons, such as hill running and jumping activities.
Choose running surfaces carefully. Avoid or limit running on hard or slippery surfaces. Dress properly for cold-weather training, and wear well-fitting athletic shoes with proper cushioning in the heels.
Increase training intensity slowly. Achilles tendon injuries commonly occur after an abrupt increase in training intensity. Increase the distance, duration and frequency of your training by no more than 10 percent weekly.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
.
Mayo Clinic Footer
Legal Conditions and Terms
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below.
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Notice of Privacy Practices
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Manage Cookies
Advertising
Mayo Clinic is a nonprofit organization and proceeds from Web advertising help support our mission. Mayo Clinic does not endorse any of the third party products and services advertised.
Advertising and sponsorship policy
Advertising and sponsorship opportunities
Reprint Permissions
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
© 1998-2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.