Tips and Ideas for treating nail fungus - Healthy Nail Blend
Healthy Nail Blend
What is Nail Fungus?
Facts About Nail Fungus
What does nail fungus look like?
Can Nail Care Reveal Health Problems
Why Are My Toe Nails Discolored?
Why You Should Treat Nail Fungus
Causes for Nail Fungus, Thrush and other fungal yeast Issues
8 Health Warnings Your Fingernails May be Sending
Why You Should Treat Nail Fungus
Is Fungus Compromising Your Health
How Do I Know if I Have Candida?
Preventing and treating your nail fungal infections
Healthy Nails in the Shortest Time
Benefits of Essential Oils for Nail Fungus
History of the Essential Oils used in Healthy Nail Blend
Can You Use Tea Tree Oil to Treat Nail Fungus?
Why We Use Oregano Essential Oil for Nail Fungus.
Nail Fungus and Essential Oils
Essential Oils Vs Prescription Medication for Nail Fungus
Children and Nail Fungus
Can Probiotics Help Nail Fungus?
Can Candida Cause Nail Fungus?
Benefits of Good Nail Hygiene
Nail Care Tips
Winter is the Best Tiime to Tackle Toenail Fungus
Frequently Ask Questions About Nail Fungus
Testimonials
Recommended Reading
Glossary of Nail Fungus Terms
Blog
ORDER HERE
Contact Us
Healthy Summer Feet
7/5/2013
2 Comments
You may get away with unsightly toenails in cold weather, but the summer months will likely have those little piggies out for all to see. You don't want to keep them locked up all season, plus it is good for them to get a little fresh air. Warm summer weather, wet or moist feet, and going barefoot can increase the risk developing athlete's foot, fungal toenail infections, warts and even parasites. Yuck. Here are some tips to ward off infection and natural remedies for feet you'll want to show off.
Also called tinea pedis, athlete's foot is one of the most common fungal infections and is closely related to jock itch and ringworm. Symptoms include:
Itching and burning between your toes and cracked and peeling skin.
It is contagious and is commonly picked up in locker rooms and pools or anywhere you may go barefoot.
This fungus loves a moist, warm environment so change out of your socks and sneakers after exercise and let those feet breathe.
Always wear sandals in hotels, pools, locker rooms, etc.
Change socks regularly if they become sweaty and blow dry your feet.
Athlete's foot fungi as well as other types of fungus can get under the toenail and cause discoloration, thickening, and cracking of the nails.
Fungal toenail infections are called onychomycosis and treatment can be difficult and lengthy so talk with your healthcare provider.
For mild cases of athlete's foot, these home remedies may help you get rid of it and can be used as a preventive measure.
Tea tree oil contains anti-fungal and antibacterial properties. A study published in 2002 in the Australasian Journal of Dermatology tested tea tree oil in varying concentrations (25% or 50% tea tree solution) against a placebo on those with athlete's foot. It was applied 2 times a day for 4 weeks. Both groups saw marked improvements. The cure rate was 64% in the 50% solution group, compared to 31% in the group receiving the placebo.
100% Tea tree oil has been shown to be as effective as 1% clotrimazole for onychomycosis (fungal toenail infections). The researchers in the study concluded that topical therapy combined with debridement was an appropriate initial therapy. Filing down a thickened toenail can help topical treatments get closer to the nail bed where the infection is hiding. Champhor, eucalyptus, and thyme essential oils also have anti-fungal properties and can be found in some anti-fungal toenail products. Oral medicines for treating fungal toenail infections can be costly and have serious side effects, but may be required for more serious infections. Those with diabetes, poor circulation, and those with lower immune function are at an increased risk of difficult to treat fungal infections.
There are many anecdotal reports of people having success with common household vinegar or apple cider vinegar, either by soaking their feet in a solution of vinegar and water or dabbing affected areas with vinegar. Theoretically the acidity of the vinegar makes your foot (or toenails) an inhospitable place for the fungus to thrive. Epsom salt (magnesium sulfate) soaks are not only a good way to relax; they may also help clear up athlete's foot and fungal toenails. Although not an anti-fungal, it can increase circulation and can be used in conjunction with other therapies. Many of these home remedies need to be done daily, preferably twice daily, in order to be more effective. It can take many months to grow out a bad toenail, patience is a must!
Warts are caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) which loves a warm, moist environment and enters through little cuts or cracks in your skin. Plantars warts occur on the bottom of feet and are often painful and difficult to treat, but sometimes they can resolve on their own. The treatments themselves are also painful including salicylic acid, cryotherapy (freezing), or even surgery. But, before trying any of these you may want to consider applying duct tape over the wart which may stimulate an immune response. Although studies have been mixed on the effectiveness of duct tape, it certainly may be worth a try, especially now that duct tape comes in a variety of designs and colors. Leave the duct tape on for up to 6 days followed by soaking and removal of dead skin with an emery board or pumice stone. Leave the wart open to air for half a day and repeat as long as the wart remains. Some have combined this therapy with salicylic acid or Imiquimod, a medicine that stimulates an immune response around the wart.
This article is for information only and is not intended to diagnose, cure, or treat any conditions. Please seek the advice and care of a qualified healthcare provider if you have any concerns about the health of your feet.
References:
PubMed Health – Athlete's Foot
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0001878
Healthy Nail Blend has 7 Powerful Essential Oils including Tea Tree with Vitamin E Oil and can used for Athlete’s foot as well as Nail Fungus.
2 Comments
How to prevent Smelly Feet
7/4/2013
0 Comments
How to prevent smelly feet
Get rid of that embarrassing odor once and for all
Nothing ruins your entryway, date night, or a good pair of shoes like a stink. And once the smell starts, it’s hard to keep it from invading the rest of your footwear. That’s because even the most delicate shoes are a dark, sweaty breeding ground for odor-causing bacteria. You can’t completely remove it, but you can control the stench. Before you lose another pair of pumps, try these expert tips for nipping smelly feet in the bud before it starts. So the next time a hostess says, “Would you mind taking your shoes off,” you can do so in confidence.
Try to stay dry
“The best way to prevent smelly feet is to keep your feet dry,” says Dr. Rebecca Baxt, a board certified dermatologist. Towel off your feet—especially in between toes—after the shower, and dab them with anti-fungal powder that keeps you dry while warding off odor-causing fungus.
Wear socks when you can
Socks and pumps aren’t exactly a fashion statement. But when you skip out on socks there’s nothing to absorb the sweat your feet naturally produce, trapping it between your toes and inside your shoes. If you know you’re going sockless, try dotting antiperspirant on the bottoms of your feet and between toes.
Prep your shoes
Sprinkle baby powder (or a more targeted odor-eating powder) on the insides of your shoes before and after you wear them. And get them out of your dark, damp closet! Just like your aching dogs, your shoes need to be aired out, too.
Head to the liquor cabinet
If your feet end up smelling less than swell no matter what, wipe them down with a vodka-soaked washcloth to get rid of the stench. It's the same principle as rubbing alcohol (which works equally well if you'd rather drink your Grey Goose). Vodka contains alcohol, which is antiseptic and drying, so it destroys odor-causing fungus and bacteria and dries out the moisture that lets these organisms grow.
When to see a doc
If you still can’t get your sweat under control, see your dermatologist and ask her about Drysol, an anti-sweat prescription in the form of a roller ball specifically formulated for reducing the amount of sweat your foot produces.
0 Comments
Weekly Health Tip - Nail Fungus - Thrush, Jock-itch, Athlete's Foot
5/21/2013
0 Comments
Nail Fungus - (also Thrush, Jock-Itch, Athlete’s Foot
and rashes in embarrassing places)
Often featured on TV programs glorifying ‘The Most Embarrassing Illnesses’, our old friend candida albicans is back – this Jekyll-and-Hydian bowel yeast with Napoleonic ambitions for the total control of your organism. If you suffer from any of the above, then yeast, fungus and chaotic blood sugar are your problem. As for the all-pervading silence on the subject of crispy toenails and ravaged testimonials, one could be forgiven for thinking no-one else on the planet has got what you’ve got. You would be wrong. Schoolboy titters at adverts punting the latest vaginal creams are silenced years later when the dreaded rash appears across your own buttocks or privates in cosmic revenge for your inappropriate hilarity.
Symptoms: Yellowed, crispy toenails with a waxy texture. Itching between the toes, around the groin, vaginal or buttock area. Vaginal discharge. Buttock/waistline rashes can look linear; a red line demarking an inner area slightly darker than the surrounding, unaffected skin. These conditions are almost always accompanied by gas and bloat in the bowels, indicating candida overgrowth and disturbed bowel flora. You are probably addicted to sugar due to
Read More
0 Comments
Effective Treatment for Nail Fungus
7/5/2012
0 Comments
Fungal nail infections are very common. Both fingernails and toenails may be affected, although toenail fungal infection is the most common type.
Fungal infection of the nails is the one of the most difficult of all disorders to cure.
There are a number of oral medications that have been promoted as effective cures, and, indeed, many of these medications eradicate nail fungus.
However, all of these medications have the potential of causing significant toxicity, including liver damage. Oil of oregano aids in the cure primarily through topical application, although internal consumption may be necessary however, this must be under the direction of a professional health care provider. The oil has a deep penetrating power, which aids in the destruction of nail fungus, since this fungus infects the root of the nail bed as well as the surface.
Regarding essential oils, oil of oregano’s ability to destroy nail fungus is unmatched. Rub oil of oregano liberally into involved nails as often as possible. Be sure to reduce sugar intake. Our Healthy Nail Blend includes oregano and 6 other powerful essential oils. Order Here
0 Comments
How to Have Happy Feet
6/7/2012
0 Comments
There are more than half a million sweat glands in your feet, so it's no wonder your tootsies become extra fragrant when the hot weather hits. Podiatrist Carolyn McAloon, DMP, outlines how you can keep those feet smelling sweet.
Give Shoes a Dry Spell - Make sure each pair gets time off to breathe; shoes need at least 24 hours to dry out, so don't wear the same flats every day. This is very important if you have toenail fungus.
Don't be a closet case - Most of us toss our shoes in the closet, but fungus breeds in small, dark spaces. Leave footwear in an area with ample air circulation.
Soak Your Toes - To fight odor, submerge feet in warm water for 15 minutes a few times a week. Add 4 to 6 drops of tea tree oil, which acts as an antimicrobial.
Sock it to them - All cotton socks can leave your feet dripping. Try a sweat-wicking alternative like a nylon-cotton blend or an eco-friendly wool.
0 Comments
Judy Tovey
_Caring for people around me, Success-Driven, Results-Oriented & Always Daring To Achieve.
search tips advanced search
search engine by freefind
Archives
September 2017
July 2017
April 2017
December 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
December 2015
June 2015
May 2015
February 2015
May 2014
December 2013
July 2013
May 2013
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
February 2012
December 2011
Categories
All
Candida
Faq About Nail Fungus
Fingernail Fungus
General Nail Health
How To Get Rid Of Nail Fungus
Nail Fungus
Smelly Feet
Toe Nail Fungus
RSS Feed
No action or inaction should be taken based solely on the contents of this information; instead, readers should consult appropriate health professionals on any matter relating to their health and well-being. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
​Judy Tovey - Judytovey@gmail.com 309-826-2416
Copyright © 2017 www.healthynailblend.com. All Rights Reserved.