Care of Children | Emergencies | Bites, stings and itches
Skip to main content
Home > Learn > Patient education manuals > Care of Children > Emergencies > Bites, stings and itches
Guide for the Care of Children
Infant - baby care
Accident prevention
Baby's appearance
Baby's behavior
Bathing
Choosing a baby sitter
Circumcision care
Clothing
Cord care
Crying
Cutting nails
Diapers
Foreskin care
Formula feeding
General feeding schedules
How to burp your baby
Immunizations/shots
Jaundice
Normal reflexes
Nursery safety
Other feeding issues
Reducing risk of SIDS
Stools/bowel movements
Teething
Breastfeeding
Breastfeeding basics
Latch
How to tell if your baby is hungry
How to tell if your baby is getting enough milk
Pacifier and bottle use
Expressing and storing breastmilk
Common concerns
Special circumstances
Returning to work or school
Breastfeeding in public
Weaning your baby
Newborn feeding
Banked human milk
Formula feeding
General feeding schedules
How to burp your baby
How to tell if your baby is getting enough milk
Special circumstances
Well checkups
Nutrition
Food groups
Calcium
Constipation
Mealtime guidelines
Positive body image
Snacks
Vitamins
Infections
Antibiotic use
Bacterial infections
Colds
Croup
Ear infections
Fever's role
How to treat your child's fever
Gastroenteritis
Impetigo
Influenza
Pink eye
Pneumonia
RSV
Throat infections
Thrush
Viral infections
Diseases and allergies
Asthma
Chickenpox
Eczema (atopic dermatitis)
Fifth's disease
Hand, foot and mouth disease
Hay fever (pollen allergy)
Hives
Lyme disease
Mouth sores, sore gums
Norovirus and rotavirus
Roseola
Scarletina (strep rash)
Warts
Whooping cough
Safety precautions
Backyard safety
Bicycles, skates, scooters, ATVs
Car seat safety
Child care, baby sitter
Falls
Fires
Garage door opener
Guns
Insect safety
Medicine safety
Playground safety
Poisons
Stranger safety
Sun safety
Water safety
Emergencies
Bites and stings
Bruises, strains, sprains
Burns
Cuts and scratches
Dental injuries
Eye injuries
Frostbite
Head injuries and concussions
Head lice
Heat illnesses
Nosebleeds
Poison ivy, oak, sumac
Seizures
Severed body part
Wellness
Activity and exercise
Dental exams
Discipline
Eye exams
Hearing exams
Play time
Secondhand smoke
Temper tantrums
Toilet training
Order print copy of manual
Bites, stings and itches
Dog and cat bites
Ninety percent of dog or cat bites are done by family pets. Two of every three bites occur to children younger than age 15.
Teach your child how to be responsible around your family pet. This includes never teasing it, never bothering it while eating or sleeping and never letting a stranger come pet it.
Also, teach your child what to do if she sees an unfamiliar dog or cat:
Don't run to it or call it over.
Don't try to pet it.
Don't stare at it.
Walk away calmly to the house or get an adult.
Make sure your pet has its current set of shots each year. Always supervise a small child around your pet, even if the child is yours.
What to do if your child gets bitten
If your child is bitten by a dog or cat:
Wash the bite area with soap and water.
Check to see if the animal has up-to-date rabies shots.
Check to see if your child is up-to-date on his tetanus shots.
Report an animal bite to the police or sheriff department in the city or county in which the bite happened.
An animal must be watched closely for at least two weeks after a bite. If the animal that bit your child cannot be found, she may need shots to prevent rabies. Your police department can help you call the proper authorities.
Call your health care provider if the bite is on your child's face, causes disfigurement or if the area won't stop bleeding. Bites on the feet, hands, wrists and face are at high risk for infection.
Snake bites
Minnesota is home to two kinds of poisonous (venomous) snakes.
According to the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Massasauga and Timber rattlesnake are found only in southeastern Minnesota. Both types of snake are protected by law. Their bites rarely cause death.
What to do if your child gets bitten
If your child is bitten by a snake, the American Red Cross advises you do the following.
Wash the bite area well.
Keep the bite area below your child's heart, if possible.
Call 911.
Do not:
apply ice
cut the area
use a tourniquet
Insect bites and stings
If your child is stung by a bee, wasp or hornet, do not squeeze your child's skin to remove the stinger. Scrape away the stinger with your fingernail, credit card or tweezers.
Bee sting emergency
If your child is stung and faints, has swelling at the sting site or gets hives, call your health care provider right away. Your child may be having an allergic reaction. If your child has trouble breathing, call 911.
How to treat an insect bite or sting (including a spider bite):
Put ice on the bite or sting site.
Wash the area with soap and water.
Use an anti-itch medicine for comfort.
Cover the bite or sting site with a bandage.
Call your health care provider if your child seems to be having a reaction.
Tick bites
When your family spends time in wooded areas, you may find an uninvited guest on your child's body - a tick.
There are many different kinds of ticks in Minnesota. Only one, the deer tick, can cause Lyme disease.
How to prevent tick bites
Dress your child in a long-sleeved shirt and long pants if playing, hiking or camping in a wooded area. If possible, dress her in light-colored clothing to help make the ticks stand out. Tuck pant legs into socks or boots.
Check your child carefully (head to toe) for ticks if she has been outside.
Use insect repellents that contain DEET.
Tip
Choose a DEET concentration up to 30 percent for children who are 2 months old or older.
How to remove a tick
If you find a tick in your child's skin, follow these steps:
Use fine-tipped tweezers to grasp the tick toward its head. Do not try to pull the tick out by its body.
Grasp the tick firmly and keep the tweezers as close to your child's body as possible. Pull the tick out slowly. Try not to squeeze it.
Put an antiseptic ointment or rubbing alcohol on your child's skin.
Do not use matches, kerosene, nail polish, petroleum jelly (such as Vaseline®) or any other product to get the tick out of your child's skin.
Source: Allina Health's Patient Education Department, Guide for the Care of Children: Ages Birth to 5 Years Old, fifth edition. To avoid awkward sentences, instead of referring to your child as "he/she" or "him/her," this guide will alternate between "he" or she" and "him" or "her."
Reviewed by: Allina Health's Patient Education Department experts, including the Pediatric Department of Allina Health Coon Rapids Clinic
First published: 02/01/2010
Last reviewed: 01/01/2016
Related resources
Insect safety
Lyme disease
Save to Family Health Manager