What is the Best Treatment for Ovarian Cyst? - High DA Guest Posting Site India | High Domain Authority Guest Posting Site- Mediagama.in
Guest Posting Site
Home
Health
Fashion
Lifestyle
Home Improvement
Technology
Business
Home / health / What is the Best Treatment for Ovarian Cyst?
What is the Best Treatment for Ovarian Cyst?
Ovaries are the most vital part of the female reproductive system and located on the sides of the uterus. The function of these ovaries is to produce an egg that fertilizes with the sperm to later form an embryo. Also, they produce female reproductive hormones called estrogen and progesterone. Ovarian cysts are the fluid-filled sacs that may develop in one or both the ovaries. Mostly, the cysts are symptom-free.
Types of ovarian cysts
Functional cysts - These cysts are formed during ovulation and get shrunken within 2-3 menstrual cycles. These type of cysts rarely occur after the menopause.
Dermoid cysts - The cysts that are filled with different types of tissues such as hair follicles or skin are known as a dermoid cyst.
Endometrioma cysts - Also known as “chocolate cysts”, these are formed when tissue similar to that of the lining of the uterus gets attached to the ovaries.
Cystadenoma cysts - These are the cysts that develop from cells on the outer surface of the ovaries.
Polycystic ovarian diseases - These cysts are formed by a buildup of follicles, which cause the ovaries to enlarge and also cause thickening of the outer covering. This hampers the ovulation process and leads to fertility issues.
Signs and symptoms that indicate ovarian cysts
Most of the times, the ovarian cysts do not cause any symptoms. However, if there is excessive growth, the following symptoms can be seen:
Swelling or bloating in the abdominal region.
Pain during the bowel movements.
Painful menstrual cycles.
Pain during sexual intercourse.
Low back pain.
Tenderness in the breast.
Nausea and vomiting.
In some of the severe cases, the patient may need immediately need to consult a doctor, such as :
Sharp intolerable pain in the abdomen or the pelvic region.
Fever
Fainting
Dizziness
Increased heart rate.
Weakness or lightheadedness
Complications of ovarian cysts
Most of the ovarian cysts occur without any symptoms. Some of the cysts like Polycystic Ovarian Disease can cause infertility issues. However, in some cases, the cysts may turn into masses which may turn out to be cancerous.
Another complication that might happen maybe ovarian torsion. This happens when a large cyst leads to twisting and therefore movement of the ovary from its original position. As a result, the blood supply can be disconnected. This can cause huge damage or even death of the ovarian cells.
In some rare cases, the cysts may get ruptured and cause severe pain and internal bleeding. This increases the risk of infection in the body.
Treatment
Observe
Most of the cysts are without any noticeable symptoms and can shrink with age. Hence, the only treatment in these cases is observation. The patient should have a regular ultrasound to watch over the condition and check if they have got worse or reduced from before.
Medications
In some cases, where the cysts are recurring, the doctor may recommend taking the birth control pills or hormonal pills to inhibit the recurrence of the cysts.
Surgery
The surgical removal of the cyst is recommended by the gynecologists in the following cases:
1. Ovarian cyst of size more than 6-7 cm
2. Presence of ovarian masses bilaterally
3. Cancerous cells
4. If there is any complication from the cyst such as cyst rupture.
The surgery is known as ovarian cystectomy.
The ovarian cystectomy is of two types:
Open surgery
Laparoscopic surgery
In most of the cases, the surgeons prefer to do the laparoscopic surgery, as it is done by using the minimally invasive technique. In this type of surgery, only the damaged tissue is removed while preserving the ovaries and other healthy tissues. The advantages of laparoscopic surgeries are :
Fast recovery
Lesser trauma to the surrounding tissues
Less hospital stay
Lesser risk of infection.
The success rate of the ovarian cystectomy is quite high. The gynecologists in India are highly skilled and experience to perform such surgeries. The hospitals are well-equipped with world-class infrastructure to perform the surgeries with great accuracy and good results. The ovarian cyst removal cost in India is also highly reasonable.
health
Related Posts
health
Leave a Comment
No comments
Post a Comment
Subscribe to: Post Comments ( Atom )
Search Your Category
Popular Posts
It’s Right Time To Adore Velvet Saree This Season
After days of rumours, cricketer Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma Finally got married in Italy this month. What remained in news was Anushka...
Try Out the Exclusive and Trendy Lehenga Salwar Suits for a Classy Look
We all have been reading since childhood that India is inclusive with ritual and civilization. The glimpse of the tradition is worth prais...
5 Fashionable Ways To Shower Love On Mother’s Day
‘Owe’ is a very complicated word when we talk about mothers. They do everything and still, you owe nothing because ‘giving back’ is not ...
5 Kurti Trends We Are Crushing Over This Season
Kurtis create the most stylish and comfortable ensemble and there is no denying. It’s something special cum very casual that offers ultima...
Categories
Business
Fashion
Home Improvement
Latest News
Lifestyle
Technology
Random Posts
Followers
Blog Archive
April 2019 (1)
March 2019 (2)
February 2019 (3)
January 2019 (8)
December 2018 (1)
November 2018 (1)
October 2018 (5)
September 2018 (1)
July 2018 (4)
June 2018 (5)
May 2018 (9)
April 2018 (5)
March 2018 (15)
February 2018 (13)
January 2018 (5)
December 2017 (4)
November 2017 (6)
Recent Posts
Random Posts
Follow by Email
Home
About Us
Submit Guest Post
Created By Web2India.in & Digital Market | Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates
Powered by Blogger.