Best Home Remedies For Anemia | Pick a Remedy
Menu
Home
Blog
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Find Remedies
Health
Cleansing
Cold, Flu & Allergies
Diet
Digestive Health
Diseases & Conditions:
Ears
Eye Health
Feet
Hair
Men’s Health
Mental Health
Oral Care
Pain Relief
Skin
Skin Care
Skin Conditions/Disorders
Sleep
Wellbeing
Woman’s Health
X
Now Trending
Top Reasons Why Wheatgrass is The Ultimate Superfood
Why You Need to Add Spirulina to Your Health Arsenal
5 Surprising Advantages of Having a Whiter Smile
Best Home Remedies For Anemia
Anemia is a condition that occurs when there is a deficiency in the amount of iron in the body. This causes a significant reduction in the number of red blood cells in the body. As a result of this, the body’s organs do not get enough oxygen as they should.
The most important thing to note is that there are different types of anemia, depending on the cause of the same. Sometimes anemia is the result of a Vitamin B12 deficiency, or low production of folate. The most common, however, is that which results from fewer blood cells.
Red blood cells play an important role in the body because they carry oxygen to the body cells. With fewer blood cells, it becomes difficult for the body cells to transport adequate oxygen. As a guide, women and men with less than 12 grams of Hemoglobin (the specific part of Red blood cells that carries the oxygen) and less than 13 grams of Hemoglobin per decilitre of blood respectively are anemic. Women are particularly at risk owing to natural occurrences such as menstruation and pregnancy. Other conditions that increase the likelihood of anemia include cancer, blood diseases, ulcers as well as chronic diseases.
Some of the symptoms that accompany anemia include constant fatigue, pale skin, dizziness as well as shortness of breath. An irregular heartbeat is also common in anemia, as are headaches and low energy. Depending on the extent of the condition, anemia may be characterized by loss of hair and clammy hands. Since the severity of anemia varies from one person to another, it is important to seek medical attention in order to diagnose whether anemia is caused by an underlying condition. There are home remedies that you can use to treat anemia at home, and possibly prevent the symptoms from becoming more pronounced.
1. Beetroot:
Time Required: 30 Min
What You Need: 1 Medium sized beetroot, 2 large carrots and a blender.
Difficulty: Easy
Beetroot is one of the most effective home remedies for the natural treatment of anemia. This is because red beetroots are extremely rich in iron, which plays a key role in regenerating the blood cells. In addition to iron, beetroot is also rich in calcium, potassium and vitamins all of which play a key role in forming Hemoglobin. This remedy also has the advantage of detoxifying the body, in effect easing the supply of oxygen across the body. Overall, beetroot is ideal for increasing the number of red blood cells to help treat anemia naturally. Carrots are added to sweeten beet juice. Prepare the remedy by following the directions indicated below.
Directions:
Clean the beetroot well before slicing.
Repeat step 1 above using the carrots.
Mix the beetroot and carrot slices and blend together to get the juice.
Drink this juice on a daily basis to treat anemia.
NOTE: You may use a blender or juicer, although some people prefer the blender to the juicer because it does not get rid of the fiber which is beneficial for the body.
2. Pomegranate:
Time Required: N/A
What You Need: Pomegranate juice, a pinch of cinnamon powder and 1 tablespoon of honey. 1 pomegranate fruit (optional).
Difficulty: Easy
The innumerable health benefits of pomegranate make it an excellent addition to one’s diet, and especially for people who suffer from anemia. This delicious fruit increases the amount of iron in the body, thus helping with the adequate generation of red blood cells. Pomegranates are also rich in Vitamin C which aids in the body’s absorption of iron from food eaten. Regular intake of the fruits increases the Hemoglobin concentration as well as the number of red blood cells.
Other benefits of this remedy include increased intake of Magnesium and Calcium. Take pomegranates at least once daily to alleviate the symptoms of anemia. Cinnamon is added because it strengthens the immune system which is particularly helpful for those whose immune system is weakened as a result of the condition. Honey is added to sweeten the juice.
Directions:
Add the cinnamon and raw honey to the pomegranate juice and stir well.
Drink this juice on a daily basis.
You may also eat 1 medium-sized fruit everyday to treat anemia at home.
The most preferable time to do this is in the morning on an empty stomach for maximum absorption.
3. Dates:
Time Required: 10 Min
What You Need: A handful of dry dates.
Difficulty: Easy
One of the most effective remedies you can use for the natural treatment of anemia is dates. Studies show that for every 100g of dates, you get 0.90 mg of iron. As a rich source of iron, dates therefore help increase the amount of Hemoglobin in the blood. Additionally, dates are rich in Copper which plays an integral role in the making of red blood cells in the bone marrow. Other benefits of using dates include the presence of Magnesium, Copper and Manganese. Avoid taking the dates with dairy products as these are rich in calcium which has been shown to inhibit iron absorption in the body.
Directions:
Simply indulge in a handful of dates everyday to alleviate the symptoms of anemia.
4. Sesame Seeds:
Time Required: 30 Min
What You Need: 1 Tablespoon of black sesame seeds, pan and grinder/earthenware mortar. You may use sesame seeds, 1 cup of warm water and honey (optional).
Difficulty: Easy
Sesame seeds are recommended for the natural treatment of anemia, thanks to their high concentration of iron. Since iron is required for the generation of blood cells, an increased amount of iron for a person with anemia goes a long way in providing relief from the condition’s symptoms. In fact, just half a cup of he black sesame seeds is thought to provide more than half of the daily required amount of iron in the body. The most common way of taking the sesame seeds involves sprinkling them directly on baked foods, but this does not offer maximum absorption. Follow the directions below to get the most out of this home remedy.
Directions:
Place a 1 tablespoon of the sesame seeds on a hot pan and toast until you hear a popping sound. This usually takes a short time, usually just about 15-30 seconds.
Transfer the toasted seeds to a grinder. Grind until you get an oily substance. Alternatively use an earthenware mortar to grind the toasted seeds.
You can now add the ground sesame seeds on your preferred food.
The other way to prepare sesame seeds is to soak the seeds in water for a couple of hours. After 2 hours, strain the mixture and retain the soaked seeds.
Mash the seeds to make a paste. Add the raw honey to the paste and mix well before indulging. Eat this paste twice daily to treat anemia naturally.
5. Fresh Spinach
Time Required: 20 Min
What You Need: 2 Cups of fresh spinach, water in a pan, a bowl of ice-cold water, blender, 1 tablespoon of olive oil, chopped garlic and onion.
Difficulty: Easy
One of the golden rules in the prevention and treatment of anemia revolves around increased intake of green leafy vegetables such as spinach. Spinach is extremely rich in iron, which makes it a super remedy. As a matter of fact, it has been shown that just half a cup of spinach provides as much as 30% of the required amount of iron and almost the same amount of folic acid. It helps to include Vitamin C rich foods alongside the spinach in order to aid the body’s absorption of iron. While at it, remember to avoid caffeinated drinks as this impede the proper absorption of iron from the small intestine.
NOTE: For this remedy, you will need to blanch the spinach. This not only softens the texture, it also adds to the overall flavor of the soup.
Directions:
Wash the spinach leaves well before preparing the soup.
Set aside a bowl containing ice cubes and cold water which you will need immediately after boiling the leaves.
Add the spinach leaves to very hot water in a pan and allow to boil for a minutes.
Drain the water and immediately transfer the spinach to the bowl containing the ice cubes. This is done to keep the spinach tender and more importantly stop the cooking process.
Take a cup of the blanched spinach and transfer to a blender.
Blend the blanched spinach until you get a puree.You may add a little water to ease the blending process.
Saute the chopped garlic and fry in a pan using the olive oil until they are brown.
Add the pureed spinach to the pan and let it cook for 5 minutes.
Drink this soup twice daily.
You may also prepare fresh spinach juice to which you may add raw honey for a daily drink.
6. Blackstrap Molasses:
Time Required: 15 Min
What You Need: 1 Tablespoon of blackstrap molasses and 1 cup of hot water.
Difficulty: Easy
Blackstrap molasses are produced as a waste by-product of sugar processing, but this does not in any way, take away from its health benefits. Not only do these molasses have a low glycemic index, they are also extremely high in iron. As mentioned above, iron is required for the synthesis of red blood cells. As a bonus, these molasses are also rich in folic acid which is a prerequisite for optimal red blood cell production. This cocktail of nutrients makes blackstrap molasses a power house as far as the natural treatment of anemia is concerned. All you need for this remedy is the molasses and a cup of warm water.
Directions:
Add one tablespoon of blackstrap molasses to a cup of warm water and drink daily.
7. Bananas:
Time Required: 20 Min
What You Need: 2 Bananas, blender and honey.
Difficulty: Easy
Bananas are a befitting home remedy for the natural treatment of anemia as they are rich in Iron that is easily assimilated by the body and channeled to the production of red blood cells. In addition to this, bananas also have a high concentration of Vitamin B12 and folic acid which are also necessary for the treatment of anemia. You may add honey which not only acts as a natural sweetener, but is also rich in Copper that aids in iron absorption. You may eat the ripe bananas or prepare a smoothie for a refreshing option.
Directions:
Simply eat a banana twice daily.
Alternatively, prepare a smoothie by chopping the bananas and blending to get a glass of smoothie.
Add the honey and drink thrice daily to get relief from the symptoms of anemia.
8. Tomatoes:
Time Required: 20 Min
What You Need: Raw tomatoes
Difficulty: Easy
Tomatoes come in handy in the natural treatment of anemia because they are rich in Vitamin C, antioxidants and lycopene. Not only is this a nutritious option, the presence of Vitamin C enhances iron absorption in the body, which in turn makes more iron available for red blood cell production.
Directions:
Simply add raw tomatoes to your daily diet, whether in salads or sandwiches.
You may also prepare tomato juice and drink daily.
9. Increase Organ Meat Intake:
Time Required: Varies depending on specific meat
What You Need: Organ meats
Difficulty: Easy
Organ meats such as liver contain very high amounts of iron, which is key for anemic patients. These meats are also richer in nutrients when compared to other meats. Liver is singled out as a preferred remedy because it also has Vitamin B12 that is necessary for optimal production of red blood cells. Increase your organ meat intake to help get relief from anemia. Note too, that these meats must be well-cooked to avoid contamination and/or food poisoning.
Directions:
Cook your preferred organ meat at least once daily.
From the remedies listed above, it is clear that eating foods rich in iron, vitamin B and C as well as folic-rich foods is the baseline for the natural treatment of anemia. Varying the different foods helps ensure that your body gets the much-needed nutrients. Increased fibre intake is also helpful for those with anemia. Whenever in doubt, remember to consult your doctor.
Stay Connected With Us
Popular
Recent
Comments
Copyright © 2019 Pick a Remedy