The Benefits of Rosehip Oil for Wrinkles
About Rosehip Oil Benefits
The Benefits of Rosehip Oil for:
Skincare
Acne and Scarring
Your Face
Wrinkles
Rosacea
Arthritis
Hair Care
Psoriasis
Where Can I Buy Rosehip Oil?
Side Effects of Rosehip Oil
What is Rosehip Oil Good For?
Benefits of Rosehip Tea
Other Rosehip Oil Articles
Contact Us
Rosehip Oil for Wrinkles
Wrinkles. Not a pretty word for many of us. None of us want them, most of us have them to varying degrees. Whilst there are products and treatments that are claimed to reduce and eliminate them, in reality there is not much that you can do to get rid of them once they appear (short of ending up with a botox frozen face).
As the old adage goes, prevention is better than cure and if you search on beauty internet forums then there are many (natural) products that people believe provides them some degree of protection. It has to be said that the best skin-care wrinkle prevention product that is available is sun-cream as the protection of the skin from sun damage is by far and away the best wrinkle prevention advice but apart from that many women claim that rosehip oil is effective as part of their wrinkle prevention skin-care regime.
Rosehip oil contains very many chemical components that are beneficial for skin-care. These include antioxidants, fatty acids (omega 3, omega 6 and omega 9), vitamin A amongst others. Which of these components actually provides the wrinkle protection benefit is not entirely clear as research studies have reported conflicting results. Some have pointed to a retinol derivative that may be present whereas others prefer to think that the plentiful omega 3 and omega 6 fatty acids may be the valuable constituent.
Over the years there have been a number of claims made about how rosehip oil can improve the appearance of your skin with respect to wrinkles and scarring. These claim made about the regular application of rosehip oil include:
-it will reduce the harmful 'drying' effects of the sun which are considered as being important in the formation of 'crows feet', the fine wrinkles around the eyes and the corner of the mouth.
- it will reduce the signs of premature ageing.
- it will reduce the appearance of scars through the reduction of redness and/or any hyperpigmentation. The manifestation of acne scarring may be reduced. -the visibility of some burn marks may be reduced.
Rosehip Oil Research Studies
Over the years there have been a number of studies looking at various aspects of how rosehip oil can help skin appearance. Many of these have been associated with burns and scarring but some have included issues related to wrinkles and skin ageing. In a 1983 study in Chile, 180 patients who were suffering from scars either caused by surgery, burns or trauma along with premature ageing, were tested with rosehip oil and a placebo control. The results of this research study were very encouraging and those who continuously applied the rosehip oil reported attenuated scarring and wrinkling, improved skin tone and colour and slowed progression of premature skin ageing.
How to Use Rosehip Oil
Many women are not necessarily fond of the smell of rosehip oil and some recommend adding a few drops of an essential such as Rosewood. Alternatively they will apply at night, just before they go to bed. It is always best to thoroughly clean the skin beforehand and remove all make-up (some people will recommend jojoba oil to do this). Splash some cold water directly onto your face and then apply just a few drops of the oil (the application of the cold water seems to improve the absorption rate of the oil).
A bottle of rosehip oil will go a long way so it may be wise to store the bulk of your purchase in the fridge and just decant a small amount to use on a daily basis. If you are not sure which type of rosehip oil to buy then check out this article .
Copyright © 2019 www.rosehipoil-benefits.com. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Visit our Google+ page