anti-aging Archives - Page 2 of 7 - Soap Deli News
Soap Deli News
Original homemade soap recipes, natural skin care recipes, beauty DIY's and craft projects from Southwestern Virginia blogger, Rebecca D. Dillon.
Home
About
Subscribe
Soap Recipes
Skin Care Recipes
Lifestyle
Shop
Anti-Aging Microdermabrasion Scrub Recipe with Nutrient Rich Sea Kelp
I may receive compensation from links on this site. See my disclosure policy.
June 21, 2018 By Rebecca D. Dillon 2 Comments
This natural anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipe contains a combination of five simple but powerful ingredients. These natural ingredients work together to exfoliate skin, remove dull surface cells and help diminish the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles and acne scars.
Keep reading to discover more about the unique ingredients that go into this amazing, natural anti-aging beauty solution that also doubles as a face mask. Plus save money by making your own alternative anti-aging beauty products with 17 more great anti-aging recipes.
The Correlation Between Aging and Self Esteem
I’ve always looked much younger than my age. When I gave birth to my son at 21 it was assumed by strangers that I was a teenage mother. And back when I would sell handmade soaps at the local farmer’s market the other market vendors used to joke that my soap kept me young. I, of course, joked back that alcohol was a preservative. But either way, neither were true.
A lot of how we age comes from our genetics. My mother, a spirited ginger, has always looked at least a decade younger than she really is. She’s also avoided cigarettes and drinking her entire life, her vice being her love of potatoes.
Aging is a tricky thing. Not everyone ages at the same rate. Sun exposure and lifestyle can also influence aging. But regardless of both genetics and lifestyle choices no one escapes the ravages of time.
While others don’t always notice the subtle changes happening to our own bodies, we are with ourselves everyday. So we catch those subtle nuances. The scars we’ve compiled over the years. Quickly duplicating laugh lines. The mysterious age spots that we still swear are freckles. (Prove they aren’t!) That slow emergence of a double chin. Skin tags in troubling places. In fact I found a new skin tag under my arm just yesterday!
No one wants to age. Not really. And watching it in slow motion from month to month and year to year can be a hard pill to swallow. It’s no wonder that women (and men!) in their forties still struggle with self esteem issues. I certainly do. And when you compile unwanted changes to your body with weight gain, failed relationships, money issues, problems at work – some days you may not even recognize who you’ve become.
While my self esteem has definitely taken a tumble lately, I’ve been seriously trying to come with terms with this aging thing. Not to mention that every year I look more and more like my mother did when she was my age. (Don’t you just hate that?) I’m hoping that as I work through perimenopause in my forties I also learn how to love my wrinkles. At the same time, is that really even possible?
The global anti-aging market is expected to make $331.41 billion by 2021. (Source.) These anti-aging products currently target Baby Boomers, Generation X and Generation Y, with Baby Boomers and Gen-exers being the most cost effective market. We are spending an insane amount of money on anti-aging products as a result of our insecurities and faltering body image.
Products like UV absorbers, anti-stretch mark products, anti-wrinkle creams and hair color, not to mention anti-pigmentation therapy, liposuction services, chemical peels, and hair restoration consume a large portion of our disposable income. And the more we age, the more we’re willing to spend to fight it.
I admit, I am guilty AF at making these types of purchases. And while they are certainly a frivolous expense for any lower income household, Americans alone are spending over $11 billion a year on plastic surgery, dermatology, and cosmetology treatments in order to look younger.
Anti-Aging Skin Care Products I Can’t Live Without
My go to anti-aging products include a microdermabrasion scrub, a retinol serum (which has helped considerably with scarring from multiple dog bites) and a hyaluronic acid cream.
Because these products are so expensive, I often look for ways to save money on them. This includes, at times, making my own natural anti-aging products. Not only is it more cost effective over the course of a year to make my own DIY anti-aging beauty products, it also allows me to customize these products around my skin care needs.
I can rarely afford to buy my favorite anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub. It’s price tag is too steep for my current budget for how quickly I fly through a container. While day creams or a retinol serum may last me two months, microdermabrasion scrubs tend to be gone in two weeks in my over zealous hands. However microdermabrasion scrubs do a great job at preventing and getting rid of my skin tags and textured facial skin.
So rather than give up this product all together, I decided to create my own anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipe with nutrient rich sea kelp. Purchasing the ingredients for this recipe allows me to create enough containers of anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub to last the entire year. So it costs considerably less per ounce. Simply make up a fresh batch when you finish off the old one.
About the Ingredients in My Anti-Aging Microdermabrasion Scrub Recipe
Formulated using bamboo extract powder (which is naturally rich in silica) and super fine pumice powder, this anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipe gently exfoliates facial skin. This helps to remove dull surface cells and diminish the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles and acne scars.
The addition of sea kelp then helps to moisturize maturing skin while also calming inflammation. Effective at reducing outbreaks of both rosacea and acne, sea kelp is also rich in vitamins and trace minerals. When used topically for natural skin care applications, sea kelp acts as a firming agent and helps to promote healing.
Finally, I rounded off my nutrient rich anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipe with the addition of cucumber seed oil and baobab oil. Both of these natural carrier oils offer anti-aging skin care benefits for maturing skin. They are equally moisturizing and both possess anti-inflammatory properties.
Cucumber seed oil in particular is rich in phytosterols, tocopherols, tocotrienols, and fatty acids. It not only hydrates and nourishes maturing skin, but also promotes the reduction of wrinkles. It’s particular soothing for anyone suffering from eczema or psoriasis and is naturally rich in vitamins C and E.
Cold pressed cucumber seed oil is commonly used in skin care applications to detox pores, lighten age spots, reduce skin redness and irritation, prevent acne and to fight off those pro-aging free radicals that can cause premature aging.
Baobab oil is also a wonderful anti-aging powerhouse. A naturally cleansing oil, this antioxidant rich carrier oil moisturizes dry or maturing skin, soothes irritation and promotes healing. It can also be used to help eliminate or reduce under eye bags, boost collagen production and reduce the appearance of scars while preserving skin elasticity.
Following you’ll find my anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipe. Use this natural anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub to cleanse and exfoliate your face. Then, leave it on for 5-10 minutes afterwards for a nutrient rich mask that hydrates skin and helps to prevent the recurrence of acne.
Also be sure to check out my other anti-aging beauty recipes further down that you can craft in addition to my anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipe!
Anti-Aging Microdermabrasion Scrub Recipe (And Face Mask in One!)
© Rebecca D. Dillon
Ingredients:
.8 oz. super fine pumice stone powder
.5 oz. bamboo extract (powder)
.1 oz. sea kelp (powder)
.5 oz. cucumber seed oil
.25 oz. baobab oil
Optional Ingredients:
1/8 teaspoon vitamin C powder
12-15 drops of an essential oil or essential oil blend
Instructions:
You will need a digital scale to weigh out the ingredients for my anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub recipes. I am partial to this bakers math scale which can also be used for making homemade soaps.
Using a digital scale weigh out the pumice stone powder and bamboo extract. Combine in a medium glass bowl. If you’d like to add a fruit powder for extra vitamin C, then measure out and add 1/8 teaspoon of cosmetic grade vitamin C powder.
Thoroughly mix the dry ingredients to combine.
Next weigh out the carrier oils into a separate container. If desired, add an essential oil of your choice.
Now pour the dry ingredients into the liquid ingredients. Mix both the dry and liquid ingredients together with a fork until all the oils and powders are evenly distributed throughout.
Transfer your anti-aging microdermabrasion scrub into a container of your choice. Your microdermabrasion scrub is now ready to use.
Usage:
To use this natural microdermabrasion scrub, remove desired amount of product from the container. Mix the scrub with just enough water to form a paste, then massage in a circular motion on your face for one to two minutes.
Then, if desired, leave the scrub on your face for five to ten minutes for a hydrating, oil balancing and toning facial mask.
Once done, simply rinse off the product and pat your face dry. Follow with your favorite toner, anti-aging serum and day cream.
More Anti-Aging Skin Care Recipes
If you’d like to explore more anti-aging skin care options, then I encourage you to try one or more of my other anti-aging skin care recipes.
Moisturizing Facial Toner Recipe with Rooibos Tea
Anti-Aging Rosehip Facial Serum Recipe
DIY Anti-Aging Under Eye Cream with Hyaluronic Acid
Natural Calendula Soap Recipe for Healthy Looking Skin After 40
Anti Aging Night Cream Recipe for a More Youthful Appearance
Anti-Wrinkle Green Tea Eye Cream Recipe with Natural Ingredients
Anti-Puff Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe with Cucumber Seed Oil
Foaming Oat Body Scrub Recipe with Anti-Aging Frankincense Essential Oil
Anti-Aging Yogurt Face Mask Recipe
Coffee & Black Tea Under Eye Cream Recipe
Foaming Ginger & Turmeric Face Polish Recipe
2-Ingredient Anti-Aging Argan Cleansing Facial Oil Recipe
Hyaluronic Acid Serum Recipe for More Youthful Looking Skin
DIY Anti-Puff Eye Roller for Tired, Puffy Eyes & Under Eye Bags
Anti-aging Natural Emulsified Sugar Scrub Recipe
DIY Coffee Under Eye Cream for Puffy Eyes, Dark Circles & Fine Lines
Natural Anti Wrinkle Face Serum Recipe for Mature Skin
Natural Nourishing Under Eye Cream Recipe
Or discover more natural anti-aging skin care recipes by following my boards on Pinterest. These boards may be of particular interest to you.
DIY Bath and Body
Holistic Skin Care Recipes for Health and Living
Anti-Aging Skin Care Recipes
Natural Home Remedies and Herbal Health Care
Alternately you’ll also love these easy holistic beauty and skin care recipes that you can make at home. You can also shop from a collection of my favorite natural artisan makeup, beauty and skin care products.
Stay in Touch with Soap Deli News
Keep up with the latest anti-aging skin care recipes from Soap Deli News! You can find and follow me on G+, Facebook, Twitter, Blog Lovin’, and Instagram. Or you can simply subscribe to Soap Deli News via email for future updates, DIY projects and recipes.
Filed Under: Bath & Beauty Recipes, Lifestyle Tagged With: anti-aging, anti-wrinkle, beauty diy, beauty recipes, body scrub recipe, face care, face mask, face scrub, facial mask recipe, facial scrub, microdermabrasion
Best Scar and Stretch Mark Treatment You Can Make at Home
I may receive compensation from links on this site. See my disclosure policy.
April 5, 2018 By Cari Dunn
This homemade salve recipe for the best scar and stretch mark treatment from guest poster Cari Dunn of Everything Pretty will teach you how to easily create a homemade salve that can help fade dark spots and promote cellular turnover.
Our scars tell a story. Whether you fell as a child, cut your finger while cooking a holiday dinner, or otherwise hurt your skin, each mark has a story. If you have stretch marks from children, then you have a lot of stories to tell about those marks.
Even though our scars are a part of our history, we don’t have to like them. Unfortunately, plastic surgery might be the only way to get rid of some scars, but there are natural products that you can make to help reduce scars and make them appear less noticeable. This homemade salve recipe for the best scar and stretch mark treatment is one of those ways.
You shouldn’t use this salve for the best scar and stretch mark treatment on broken or injured skin. Wait until your skin has healed to where you don’t have an open wound before you use this salve.
Fresh scars are easier to fade than old scars. If you have an old scar, you may not get results for three to six months with daily use.
For best results, use this best scar and stretch mark treatment salve with my scar and stretch mark sugar scrub. You should use the scrub three times a week and use the natural homemade salve twice a day.
For this homemade salve recipe for the best scar and stretch mark treatment, I wanted to use several carrier oils as they each have their own skin care benefits. You don’t have to use the same oils that I used, but I do recommend using at least two of them plus the vitamin E oil. Whatever you decide to use, use the same amount of oil or the recipe won’t turn out right.
Best Scar and Stretch Mark Treatment Ingredients
Rosehip Seed Oil
Rosehip seed oil is probably the most popular carrier oil for scars making it one of the key ingredients in this best scar and stretch mark treatment. This oil is extracted from the seed pod or the petals of the rose plant. The resulting oil is high in fatty acids and vitamins that make it a great oil for your skin.
Rosehip oil is a dry oil, which means that absorbs quickly into your skin. The oil has vitamin A, retinol, a natural way to treat fine lines and wrinkles. The vitamin A helps promote cellular turnover so skin can heal. Rosehip seed oil works so well on scars due to the linolenic acid, omega-3, and omega-6 fatty acids.
Rosehip seed oil is said help reduce redness and pigmentation, which can help make scars less noticeable. The fatty acids and vitamins in it have also been said to fade scars and prevent the formation of keloid scars.
It is important to note that rosehip seed oil can increase your sensitivity to the sun, so always wear sunscreen if you use this salve before you go outside.
Moringa Oil
I also used moringa oil, which is sometimes called ben oil. Moringa oil is high in oleic acid, omega-3, and omega-6 fatty acids. It’s high in vitamin E, a natural antioxidant.
Moringa oil has many benefits for the skin. It’s naturally anti-inflammatory, an antioxidant, and naturally antimicrobial.
Another benefit to using this oil is that it naturally exfoliates dead skin cells. It’s also a dry oil, so it absorbs quickly.
(Also be sure to try this recipe for a moisturizing sugar scrub for dry skin! Like my best scar and stretch mark treatment, it is also formulated with hydrating moringa oil and soothing oat butter.)
Sea Buckthorn Oil
For the third oil, I used sea buckthorn oil. It’s high in vitamin E, which can help boost skin healing. It’s high in omega-7 fatty acids, palmitoleic acid, which is rare in carrier oils. The oil is said to boost cellular turnover and boost your skin’s ability to heal, which is perfect for treating scars making it another must have ingredient for this best scar and stretch mark treatment.
It’s also a dry oil, so it soaks into your skin and goes deep to moisturize.
To learn more about different carrier oils and their benefits, check out my book Carrier Oils: A beginner’s guide to using over 40 carrier oils in bath and body recipes.
Vitamin E Oil
Even though the oils are all natural sources of vitamin E, I wanted to add more of the oil because it’s a wonderful oil for your skin. Vitamin E is an antioxidant, so it can protect your skin from free radicals.
It also acts like a natural preservative. Since it’s an antioxidant, it can preserve the shelf life of carrier oils. The recipe for my best scar and stretch mark treatment doesn’t have water in it, so it doesn’t need a preservative like you would need in a lotion with water. However, the oils can go rancid. Vitamin E helps keep the oils from going rancid.
Beeswax
Beeswax is obviously hard at room temperature, so it’s used to harden this recipe to turn it into a salve. But beeswax has several benefits for the skin beyond thickening this bes scar and stretch mark treatment recipe.
When applied topically, beeswax forms a protective layer on top of the skin. It traps the oils on your skin, so they can work to help heal your skin. Some creams and salves use petroleum based products, but these can clog the pores and don’t allow any air to flow through. Beeswax forms a barrier, but it can still allow air to flow.
Beeswax also works on healing skin because it’s a humectant. It attracts water molecules from the air, pulling them to your skin. This helps keep the skin moisturized and hydrated over time.
The vitamin A found in beeswax can help exfoliate the skin.
Shea Butter
Shea butter is one of my favorite butters to use for skin care products because it’s not oily and has a lot of skin loving benefits.
Shea butter is what’s known as an emollient. It penetrates the skin and seals the top layer. This traps moisture against your skin.
It’s also high in vitamin A. Vitamin A is important to promote collagen production and reduce dark spots on the skin, including those from scar.
High in antioxidants and vitamins, shea butter is one of the best butters to use on scars. It moisturizes, protects, and hydrates the skin so it can repair itself.
Helichrysum Essential Oil
There are actually four types of helichrysum, but I used Helichrysum italicum. It’s extracted from a Mediterranean plant, a flower that’s close to the daisy. Like chamomile, it’s a gentle oil that’s great for sensitive skin or, in this case, skin that has scars.
Helichrysum essential oil doesn’t leave your skin oily, but it does moisturize your skin. It can also fade dark spots on your skin, including hyperpigmentation due to scars.
It’s said to promote cellular turnover, which is what you want in a scar and stretch mark cream. It’s high in antioxidants, so it’s a great oil for anti-aging. (Try it as a substitute for carrot seed essential oil in this natural anti-aging night cream recipe!)
Lavender Essential Oil
Lavender essential oil is a popular essential oil that’s used in many different skin care recipes. It’s a gentle oil, so it’s safe to use on scars.
Ready to make my natural skin care recipe for the best scar and stretch mark treatment? Great! Here’s how it’s done.
Best Scar and Stretch Mark Treatment Salve Recipe
Ingredients:
5 tablespoons rosehip seed oil
2 tablespoons moringa oil
1 teaspoon sea buckthorn seed oil
1 teaspoon vitamin E oil
1 tablespoon beeswax
2 tablespoons shea butter
12 drops helichrysum essential oil
8 drops lavender essential oil
Directions:
Gather all of the ingredients called for in my natural homemade salve recipe for the best scar and stretch mark treatment.
Using measuring spoons, combine rosehip seed oil, moringa oil, sea buckthorn oil, vitamin E oil, beeswax, and shea butter in a heat proof glass container. I use a 2 cup Pyrex measuring cup.
Set the container on canning jar rings in a medium sized pan. Carefully add water to the pan to cover the oils. Be careful not to get water in the measuring cup.
Heat on medium until the beeswax and shea butter is melted, stirring occasionally.
Carefully remove from heat. Let cool until no longer steaming.
Add essential oils and stir well.
Pour into a 4-ounce mason jar.
I made a full 4-ounce mason jar with a little left over. I keep small souffle cups on hand to pour a little in. These are perfect for keeping in my purse or giving to friends and family.
For best results, use this scar and stretch mark salve with my scar and stretch mark sugar scrub.
More Skin Care Recipes to Try Right Now!
If you liked my recipe for the best scar and stretch mark treatment, then check out the following posts for more DIY skin care recipes!
Chamomile Hard Lotion in an Instant Pot
Dandelion Salve Recipe
Matcha Green Tea Body Butter
15 Amazing Salve Recipes
Homemade Neem Cream Recipe for Eczema & Psoriasis
Anti-Aging Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe
Lavender Body Butter Recipe with Neem Oil
Black Drawing Salve Recipe for Insect Bites, Splinters & Boils
Not Ready to DIY It? Buy It Instead!
Not quite ready to recreate the recipe for my best scar and stretch mark treatment? Buy one of these homemade versions instead!
Scar Eraser with Rosehip Seed Oil & Cocoa Butter via Better Shea Butter
Belly Butter Stretch Mark Cream via Better Shea Butter
Scar Salve with Helichrysum, Gotu Kola & Calendula via Rooted Earth Farm
Bloom Belly Oil Stretch Mark Treatment via Shoreline Body Co. (Pictured.)
Organic Healing Serum for Scars via Empire Squid Organics
Natural Anti-Aging & Scar Cream via The Soapbox
Visit my Everything Pretty DIY bath and beauty recipe page for more recipes like this one. Never miss a post from Everything Pretty by subscribing to my newsletter.
Filed Under: Bath & Beauty Recipes, Health & Wellness, Lifestyle Tagged With: anti-aging, beauty, crafts, diy, healing salve, helichrysum essential oil, home remedy, lavender, moringa oil, natural, natural remedy, salve recipe, scars, sea buckthorn oil, shea butter, skin care, stretch marks, vitamin e
Natural Calendula Soap Recipe for Healthy Looking Skin After 40
I may receive compensation from links on this site. See my disclosure policy.
February 6, 2018 By Rebecca D. Dillon
This natural calendula soap recipe is handcrafted with skin nourishing ingredients that promote skin health. Calendula hydrosol, calendula powder and chia seed oil are key ingredients for healthy looking skin. Natural shredded loofah is also included for its gentle exfoliation that leads to brighter, smoother skin.
I had the unfortunate realization today, while reading an article on another blog, that I am a mid-lifer. I mean, mid-lifers are my parents right? Unfortunately, that is not the case. My parents, who are in fact baby boomers, are well into retirement. Which I guess means I am old awesome.
I remember being in high school thinking that my parents were terribly old. That middle age was something you shrunk away from rather than revered. And I had this insane misguided notion that I would die by 28, tragically perhaps, like a rockstar stolen from life in her prime. And I would never. Ever. Grow old.
These days I’m thrilled that I’ve made it to 42. And that all my body parts appear to still be intact. However, my body and mind are having quite the disagreement over how old I REALLY am. And if you’re over 40, then you know exactly what I mean.
While I’m still put together physically speaking, mechanically not everything is running quite as smoothly as it once did. And of course nothing looks quite the same either. My skin especially requires constant upkeep that wasn’t required during my youth.
Not only is my skin drier throughout the year (not just in the winter,) but there are of course those devilish fine lines, wrinkles and the occasional age spots. And skin tags. Maybe. (I exfoliate those suckers off with a hefty dose of scrubs and Retinol.)
So in addition to moisturizing my skin on a regular basis, I also use a low cleansing homemade soap. So instead of stripped my skin like commercial bar soap, it nourishes and replenishes it instead. But being a soapmaker, I hate to use the same soap over and over again. So I mix it up with new recipes one after another. (I’m convinced each bar is somehow in silent competition with the other while I sleep. However I love something unique about each one. They are my children after all.)
My natural calendula soap is the latest to be added to this series of soap recipes. Formulated to be both low cleansing and gentle, my natural calendula soap recipe also has high skin conditioning properties so it’s perfect for maturing and/or dry skin. (Now my only problem is to remember where I left it. And how the heck did my car keys end up in the refrigerator?!)
Calendula Skin Care Benefits
Calendula, also known as pot marigold, is a popular herb that grows annually throughout most of the world. It is renowned for its anti-inflammatory properties as well as its antimicrobial and antiviral effects which help to promote healing.
When used in skin care applications, calendula can not only soothes sore, inflamed and itchy skin, but it also speeds healing time for minor wounds. Additionally, calendula infused oil works wonders for dry, chapped skin.
Not only does it moisture and soothe dry skin, but it’s also helpful when used on many problematic skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis and dermatitis. (You can learn more about calendula here.)
Natural Calendula Soap Recipe
© Rebecca D. Dillon
Ingredients:
4 oz. refined coconut oil (25%)
6.4 oz. pomace olive oil (40%)
2.4 oz. safflower oil (15%)
1.6 oz. shea nut oil (10%)
1.6 oz. chia seed oil (10%)
4.8 fl. oz. calendula hydrosol
2.2 oz. lye/sodium hydroxide
2 Tablespoons calendula flower powder
2 Tablespoons shredded loofah
.5 oz. essential oil (or 1 oz. fragrance oil)
Instructions:
Before you begin, you’ll need to make sure you take all necessary safety precautions when working with lye. This includes wearing eye protection and gloves as well as ensuring none of your containers or utensils are made from aluminum.
You will follow my cold process soapmaking tutorial in order to make this soap. (If you’ve never made homemade soap, I recommend starting with a beginner’s soap recipe which you can find here.)
My natural calendula soap recipe has a 30.5% water discount and 6% superfat. It will yield six homemade soap bars when using this rectangle silicone mold.
Begin my measuring out the calendula hydrosol in fluid ounces into a heat safe container. Then using a digital scale (I recommend this Bakers Math Scale) weigh out the lye. Slowly pour the lye into the hydrosol and stir until it has completely dissolved. Set aside to cool.
Next, weigh out the soapmaking oils and combine in a stainless steel pot or heat safe container. Heat on the stove top or at reduced power in a microwave or crock pot until melted. Remove from heat, then set aside to cool.
Once the lye-hydrosol and soapmaking oils reach about 90°-95°F, you’re ready to make soap!
Measure out the calendula flower powder and shredded loofah, then mix them into the soapmaking oils using an immersion or stick blender.
Then slowly pour the lye-hydrosol into the soapmaking oils and mix with your stick blender until you reach a light trace.
Weigh out the essential oil (or fragrance oil) of your choice and add to the soap batter. Then continue mixing to fully incorporate the scent. Once you reach a medium trace, pour the soap batter into your soap mold.
Cover the mold with plastic cling wrap if desired, then set aside in a safe location where it won’t be disturbed.
Your natural calendula soaps should be ready to unmold 24-48 hours later.
Once you’ve unmolded your homemade soaps, set them aside in a cool location for a minimum of four weeks to cure. Then wrap and label as desired for personal use of gifting.
More Natural Skin Care Recipes
Did you enjoy my natural calendula soap recipe? Then you’ll also love my natural calendula herbal balm recipe. This natural skin care recipe promotes healing with the power of calendula when used on minor cuts, bruises & insect stings. Find the recipe here.
Like my natural calendula soap recipe, my soothing moisture whip recipe is another great skin care product for nourishing and moisturizing dry or mature skin.
Crafted using natural ingredients, this ultra luxe moisturizer has a fluffy, cloud like texture that melts instantly into skin when applied. Skin soothing butters, aloe vera and witch hazel extract offer rich moisture that promotes skin health while a calming essential oil blend lends its aromatherapeutic properties. Get the recipe here.
Naturally Clean Your Home Not Just Your Skin
Looking for more affordable, convenient and natural ways to clean your home? Then you must check out Grove Collaborative! I recently became a member and have been super impressed with their service, natural products selections, prices and shipping times. Plus their products help to make it easier for families to make the switch to healthy, non-toxic home and personal care products.
Right now you can receive a free Mrs. Meyer’s Trio + Grove Walnut Scrubber Sponges when you sign up for the Grove Collaborative! They’re currently in gear for spring and are putting together some of the cleanest and greenest sets dedicated to making your home healthy and beautiful! I promise you will absolutely LOVE them! Learn more here.
Don’t Miss A Single Post!
Be sure to follow me across all of your favorite social media platforms! You can find me on Pinterest, G+, Tumblr, Facebook, Twitter, Blog Lovin’, and Instagram as well as subscribe to Soap Deli News via email for future updates, DIY projects and recipes.
Also, don’t forget. If you make homemade soaps or bath & body products I’d love to see them! Simply add the hashtag #soapdelishowoff to your instagram posts!
Filed Under: Health & Wellness, Lifestyle, Soapmaking Tagged With: anti-aging, calendula, cold process soap recipe, cold process soapmaking, crafts, diy, moisturizing, natural soap, palm free soap, skin care, soap for dry skin, soap recipe, soap tutorial, soapmaking
Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe with Cucumber & Tea Seed Oil
I may receive compensation from links on this site. See my disclosure policy.
November 15, 2017 By Rebecca D. Dillon
Naturally packed with vitamin C and caffeic acid, this homemade cucumber eye cream recipe is made with cucumber seed oil and cucumber hydrosol to target inflammation and help soothe skin irritation as well as reduce swelling. Additional ingredients, including tea seed oil, baobab oil and carrot seed essential oil, work together to help skin look and feel more youthful.
We all age. And unfortunately, if you’re like me, you fight it every step of the way. Perhaps not kicking and screaming, but with an arsenal of anti-aging beauty products and your inner voice screaming at the top of your lungs “I am still 23 at heart!” I’m determined that at 80 I’ll still be dancing to the new big local band in downtown Roanoke, dressed completely inappropriately with a mass of colors and a bar tab boasting too many glasses of wine.
I can’t think of a better way to spend the last half of my life than really living it. Hopefully I’ll still have all of my favorite people around also enjoying their retirement years. While there won’t be cats (because I’m terribly allergic) we’ll all be living with too many dogs and still crafting til our fingers bleed. Hopefully you’re envisioning your own future life in much the same way.
In the meantime however, before those wrinkles become so deep set there’s no point in fussing over them anymore, we can fight to keep our youth (or rather youthful appearance) just a little bit longer.
I created this cucumber eye cream recipe for one of my dear friends who is just a few years older than my own 42 years. She’s had more than her fair share of trials over the past year or so. From the death of her mother and a diagnosis of uterine cancer she has braved the harsh realities of those tumultuous challenges that come with age and with life.
Having recently had both her uterus and ovaries removed, she was looking for natural anti-aging products to help combat the rush of changes that occur with the ensuing menopause. My cucumber eye cream recipe with cucumber and tea seed oil is the result of her request.
Skin Care Benefits of Cucumber Seed Oil + Cucumber Hydrosol in My Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe
As we age our eyes naturally develop bags under them for hereditary reasons. While a cucumber eye cream isn’t going to magically make those bags disappear, it can help to reduce the additional inflammation caused by other stressors. For my cucumber eye cream recipe I used two ingredients from cucumbers – cucumber seed oil and cucumber hydrosol.
Benefits of Cucumber Seed Oil in Skin Care
Cucumber seed oil is a fast absorbing, non-greasy carrier oil with a long shelf life. It has a low comedogenic rating, meaning it won’t clog pores, and is rich in nutrients. These nutrients include phytosterols, tocopherols, vitamins, minerals and essential fatty acids. It’s antioxidant and moisturizing properties make it especially suited for use in anti-aging creams and lotions.
However, you’ll also find that this natural carrier oil is also commonly used in products meant for hair, lips, nails and even massage. Because of cucumber seed oil’s anti-inflammatory properties, it’s also a recommended ingredient in products that target acne, sunburns, dry scalp, eczema and psoriasis.
Benefits of Cucumber Hydrosol in Skin Care
While cucumber seed oil is derived from cold pressed cucumber seeds, cucumber hydrosol comes from the steam distillation of chopped up cucumbers. Essentially it is a pure extract of cucumber water. Cucumber hydrosol has wonderful cooling properties as well as anti-inflammatory properties much like cucumber seed oil.
Cucumber hydrosol is also an astringent. This makes it especially suited to be used as a toner to help tighten, tone and firm skin as well as reduce excess oil. When used as a facial toner, cucumber hydrosol can help to belay the effects of aging including wrinkles and fine lines.
Skin Care Benefits of Additional Carrier Oils Used in My Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe
In addition to the cucumber based ingredients, my cucumber eye cream recipe also contains some of my favorite anti-aging carrier oils.
All of the carrier oils included in my cucumber eye cream recipe – cucumber seed oil, camellia seed oil, baobab oil and rosehip seed oil – have low comedogenic ratings, meaning they won’t clog pores. Camellia seed, cucumber seed and rosehip seed oils all have a rating of 1, while baobab oil has a rating of 2.
Benefits of Camellia Seed Oil in Skin Care
Camellia seed oil, also known as tea seed oil, is similar in nature to fractionated coconut oil. Like both coconut oil and cucumber seed oil, camellia (tea) seed oil has a long shelf life. It’s often been referred to as one of the best kept secrets in the cosmetic and hair care industry as it’s been shown to improve the tone and texture of skin as well as reduce the appearance of aging. Additionally, this highly hydrating oil is non-greasy and is quickly and easily absorbed by skin.
Camellia seed oil won’t dry out skin or clog pores, yet it contains more oleic acid than olive oil. It also contains vitamins, A, B, and E, various minerals and squalene. As it’s been shown that a deficiency of squalene can lead to dry skin and premature aging, this constituent makes camellia seed oil a valuable ingredient in anti-aging skin care recipes. Suitable for all skin types, including sensitive skin, this oil soothes and calms easily irritated skin and helps to smooth dry, flaky skin.
Regular use of camellia oil can help to protect skin from age spots as well as soften wrinkles and fine lines around your eyes and mouth. It also offers some protection from UV rays.
Benefits of Baobab Oil in Skin Care
Baobab oil is another non-greasy, shelf stable carrier oil famed for its emollient and moisturizing skin care properties. Rich in Omega 3, 6 and 9 fatty acids, it also possesses skin protectant and anti-inflammatory properties when used in skin care applications.
Baobab oil makes an excellent addition to skin care products for those who suffer from skin conditions such as eczema, dry psoriasis and actinic keratosis. It can also help to relieve itching associated with dry skin and other problem skin conditions.
Benefits of Rosehip Seed Oil in Skin Care
Rosehip seed oil is extremely high in essential fatty acids and has the reputation for counteracting dry, weathered and dehydrated skin. Not only is rosehip seed oil moisturizing, but it can also help to reduce hyperpigmentation, fight aging and sun damage and help to improve skin’s texture.
A common ingredient in anti-aging beauty products, rosehip seed oil helps to diminish the appearance of scars, wrinkles and other signs of premature aging. It leaves skin looking not only revitalized, but also noticeably softer.
Ready to give this homemade anti-aging eye cream a try? You can find my cucumber eye cream recipe below!
Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe
© Rebecca Dawn Dillon
Ingredients:
.6 oz. cucumber seed oil
.6 oz. camellia (tea) seed oil
.5 oz. emulsifying wax
.5 oz. baobab oil
.5 oz. rosehip seed oil
.5 oz. refined shea butter
.25 oz. cucumber hydrosol
vitamin E oil, several drops
12 drops carrot seed essential oil
6 drops lavender essential oil
6 drops bergamot essential oil
broad spectrum preservative, of choice
Instructions:
It is extremely helpful for to have experience making lotions when attempting my cucumber eye cream recipe as it requires an emulsion. If you aren’t experienced with making homemade lotion from scratch, I’ve tried to simplify this recipe as much as possible to avoid having the cucumber hydrosol separate from the oils if you struggle with the temperatures.
Anne L. Watson’s book, Smart Lotionmaking, is a great introduction to making homemade lotion from scratch. It covers everything from tools of the trade and definitions of ingredients, to sanitizing and filling your lotion containers. In addition she also offers an in depth tutorial on how to make and test your homemade lotions for safety and provides a variety of recipes to get you started. The kindle version of Smart Lotionmaking is available instantly here. (If you don’t have a kindle you can use Amazon’s free kindle reading app.)
As my cucumber eye cream recipe contains water, you will need to use a broad spectrum preservative to prevent the growth of mold, fungus and bacteria. While storing this eye cream in the refrigerator without a preservative will slow down the growth of bacteria, it won’t prevent it from occurring.
You can use any broad spectrum preservative (suitable for lotion) of your choice for this recipe at the manufacturer’s recommended usage rate. Keep in mind that different preservatives need to be incorporated into your cucumber eye cream at or below specific temperatures. So you will need to have a kitchen thermometer handy. Germaben II for example, should be mixed in at 140°F or less and has a usage rate of .3% – 1.0%. Optiphen Plus, a paraben free preservative, has a usage rate of .75% – 1.5% and should be added at temperatures no higher than 176°F.
Begin by sanitizing your tools, lotion container and workspace with rubbing alcohol.
Next, use a digital scale to weigh out the emulsifying wax, shea butter and carrier oils into a scientific glass beaker. Place in a double boiler and heat until melted. Once the wax melts, bring the temperature of the oils and wax to 158°F (70°C) and hold for 20 minutes.
While the oils, shea butter and wax are melting weigh out the cucumber hydrosol into a small glass beaker. Bring the temperature of the hydrosol to 158°F (70°C) and hold.
Now slowly pour the cucumber hydrosol into the melted oils, butter and wax. Mix with a few bursts of a stick blender.
Once your cucumber eye cream cools enough to add your preservative, mix in the vitamin E, essential oils and the preservative of your choice. Hand mix for about two minutes with a skinny spatula or long spoon, then pour into your container of your choice. (I used 2 oz. glass amber glass jars from SKS Bottle & Packaging.)
Allow your cucumber eye cream to finish cooling then screw the lids onto your jars. Your cream should be ready for use 12-24 hours later.
Once ready, you can label your cucumber eye cream as desired for personal use or gifting.
If you want to make this cucumber eye cream to sell, you’ll need to follow good manufacturing practices (GMP) when making your product as well as test your final product for safety. You’ll find that the book, Good Manufacturing Practices for Soap and Cosmetic Handcrafters by Marie Gale, is a valuable resource if you’re just getting started making your own homemade soaps, skin care products and cosmetics.
In addition to GMP, you’ll also need to follow FDA guidelines for labeling your products. If you’re unsure about the rules and regulations regarding labeling cosmetics, the book, Soap and Cosmetic Labeling: How to Follow the Rules and Regs Explained in Plain English by Marie Gale, spells out everything you need to know to legally label your products.
Like My Cucumber Eye Cream Recipe?
If you like my cucumber eye cream recipe, then you may also enjoy some of my other natural beauty and skin care recipes.
My anti-aging night cream recipe helps to reduce the signs of aging naturally with ingredients like coconut water, cocoa butter, evening primrose and rosehip seed oil. It’s another great option for those wanting natural alternative beauty products.
Like my cucumber eye cream recipe, my cucumber mint sugar scrub recipe is made using cucumber seed oil in addition to aloe vera. Because it’s emulsified it doesn’t feel oily on skin. Not only is it a treat for your own skin, but this sugar scrub also makes a wonderful homemade gift idea.
Additionally, you may also enjoy my recipes for making a coffee & black tea under eye cream, a green tea eye cream and a lavender body butter. Or check out my DIY Bath & Body Pinterest board.
For more great bath, body and skin care recipes be sure to check out my other boards on Pinterest. You can also follow me via all of your favorite social media platforms including G+, Tumblr, Facebook, Twitter, Blog Lovin’, and Instagram. Or subscribe to Soap Deli News via email for future updates, DIY projects and recipes.
Filed Under: Bath & Beauty Recipes Tagged With: anti-acne, anti-aging, anti-wrinkle cream, antioxidant, beauty, crafts, cucumber, diy, night cream, skin care, under eye cream, vegan
Anti-Aging Rosehip Face Serum Recipe
I may receive compensation from links on this site. See my disclosure policy.
August 31, 2017 By Rebecca D. Dillon
I’m pretty sure that we can all agree that no one wants to look older after a certain age. But it’s not exactly our choice to make either. However, you can give your skin a fighting chance and help it look younger longer by using natural plant-based anti-aging products. Right now I’m using my own anti-aging rosehip face serum recipe that I created for maturing skin.
My simple skin care recipe requires only a few key natural plant based ingredients that work in unison to reduce the appearance of aging and help to prevent acne. It can even help to reduce the appearance of scarring!
I use this exact anti-aging rosehip face serum recipe everyday after washing my face. (You only need a few drops of this product so this recipe will actually last you quite a while.) After applying my face serum, I then follow with (my current favorite!) Derma-E Hydrating Day Cream with Hyaluronic Acid! (You can buy this via Thrive Market at a significant savings. Or find a simple recipe for making your own hyaluronic acid serum here.)
Are you excited yet? Then be sure to hop on over to Living the Nourished Life blog here where you can find my latest skin care DIY for my anti-aging rosehip face serum as well as information on the benefits of rosehip seed oil. (You can also check out all of my guest DIY posts for Living the Nourished Life blog here.)
If you like my anti-aging rosehip face serum recipe, then you may also like some of my other anti-aging skin care recipes. You can find my full collection of anti-aging skin care recipes on Soap Deli News blog here. Or follow my DIY Bath & Body Pinterest board for more skin care related DIY’s.
You can also follow me on Pinterest, G+, Tumblr, Facebook, Twitter, Blog Lovin’, and Instagram. Alternately, you can sign up to receive new posts from Soap Deli News blog to your email via FeedBurner so you never miss a post.
Filed Under: Bath & Beauty Recipes Tagged With: anti-aging, anti-wrinkle, bath and beauty, beauty, beauty diy, crafts, diy, easy, natural, rosehip seed oil, skin care, vegan
« Previous Page
Next Page »
Please Support These Sponsors
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 Rebecca Dawn Dillon | Partner | Disclosure Policy + Disclaimers | Privacy Policy
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok