How To Treat Croup
How To » Health & Fitness » Illness & Treatment » Conditions » How To Treat Croup
How To Treat Croup
By sarah carter
Croup is an infection of the airways that lead to the lungs. It generally occurs after a cold, because it is caused by the same virus as the common cold. It causes a horrible cough, fever, and a very cranky baby. If your child has the croup, then you definitely want to get him or her some relief fast. Follow these simple instructions, and both you and your baby will get a good night's sleep.
The first, most important step, is to relax. Hold your child and try to give them some comfort. The baby will sense that you are tense, and that will make the problem worse. Crying will also cause windpipes to swell even further, making it even harder for your child to breathe. There is no better medicine in the world than a loving, gentle touch.
Next, turn on the shower and let the bathroom fill up with steam. When the room is ready, have a seat and hold your child. The steam in the room will loosen the mucus in your baby's lungs. Try singing to your child, or maybe read him or her a book. Stay in there for about 15 minutes. Do whatever you can to keep the both of you calm.
If your child is a little older, then you could also try using a vaporizer or humidifier. Try to trap the steam over your child with a towel.
Encourage them to drink a lot of water. This will also help to break up the mucus.
If the weather outside isn't too cold, then bundle up your child and take them outside for about 10 minutes. Croup will respond well to the moist night air.
Also, don't allow anyone to smoke anywhere near your child. Cigarette smoke is harmful for children in general, but for a child with the croup, the smoke will only irritate swollen airways further.
If none of these methods work, then your baby may have a more severe case of the croup, and you may want to consider taking him or her to the emergency room. If you're child begins to have difficulty breathing, or stops breathing all together, then immediately call 911.
Share this article!
Twitter Facebook Stumble
Follow us!
Twitter Facebook
Find more helpful articles:
Home
Automotive
Business
Careers
Computers & Internet
Education
Electronics
Family & Relationships
Fashion & Personal Care
Finance & Real Estate
Food & Drink
Health & Fitness
Alternative Health
Exercise & Nutrition
Health Care & Wellness
Illness & Treatment
Allergies
Conditions
Disabilities
Diseases
First Aid
Mental Health
Pharmaceuticals & Drugs
Hobbies
Holidays
Home & Garden
Pets & Animals
Religion & Spirituality
Sports & Recreation
Travel
About Contact Terms & Privacy
How To Do Things. Copyright Howtodothings.com © 2016, all rights reserved.