How to treat a second-degree burn in the backcountry
Subscribe
Contact Us
Digital Edition
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
Programs
Cub Scouts
Scouts BSA
Venturing
Sea Scouts
Exploring
Leaders
From the CSE
Commissioner’s Corner
Scouters in Action
What I’ve Learned
Training
Advancement FAQs
Cub Scout Corner
Merit Badge Clinic
Outdoors
Cooking
Dutch Ovens
Cool Camps
Ground Rules
Health & Wellness
Survive This!
Trail Guide
Gear
Life Skills
Ethics
Your Kids
Fun Stuff
Contests
Crosswords
Photo Blog
Polls
Quizzes
Safety Quiz
Scout Crafts
Show & Tell
Bryan on Scouting
Search for:
How to treat burns in the backcountry
By Josh Piven
Health, Magazine, Outdoors, Survive This!
Emergency Situation: A spring overnight campout in the White Mountains of New Hampshire is a quiet and peaceful respite. It’s also a cold one. As temperatures dip, you fire up your camp stove to boil water. You accidentally tip the pot and hot water scalds your hand. Quiet and peaceful has just become second-degree scary and painful. What should you do?
Solution: In addition to being extremely painful, burns present a risk of infection and possible scarring if not treated properly. With that said, a second-degree burn may be treated in the field, provided you follow some basic first-aid guidelines.
First, if you witness someone experiencing a burn, be sure to help that person get away from the source of heat — for instance, if clothing catches fire, help extinguish flames using “stop, drop and roll.”
Treatment now depends on the severity of the burn. Assess burned skin using the following guidelines:
A superficial (first-degree) burn is mild and affects only the outer layer of skin. Touching a hot cook pot or getting too much sun can cause this kind of burn. It might cause pain, redness and swelling, but requires little in the way of major treatment.
A partial-thickness (second-degree) burn is characterized by damage to both the epidermis and the dermis, the second layer of skin. Spilling boiling water on skin, as described here, can cause a second-degree burn. The burned skin might appear pink, white or splotchy, and it might swell. Blisters often develop, pain can be severe and scarring is a danger.
In-the-field treatment of second-degree burns includes first rinsing the burn continuously with cool water (not ice water) until pain becomes less intense. You can also apply a cold compress to the burned area. Never apply ice directly to a burn, as this can cause further tissue damage.
Next, carefully clean the burn with mild soap and water. Remove any foreign material on the skin. Avoid popping blisters, which might lead to infection. Once the burn has been cleaned, apply a topical antibiotic ointment. Do this very gently, as the affected area will be sensitive.
Finally, bandage the burn with loosely wrapped sterile gauze dressing or a clean, dry cloth. You can also elevate the area to reduce swelling. Administer a pain reliever as needed.
There are situations when a second-degree burn requires professional treatment. For instance, if a person has second-degree burns on his or her face, it is OK to treat in the field but recommended that you seek follow-up medical attention. Or, if the second-degree burns cover more than 20 to 25 percent of a person’s body, you should seek immediate medical treatment.
A full-thickness (third-degree) burn destroys both the epidermis and dermis, leaving skin charred. Open flames or electrical exposure can cause third-degree burns. These burns are considered a medical emergency and should not be treated in the backcountry. The BSA’s Fieldbook (“Safety and Survival” chapter) advises Scouts to avoid removing any clothing and “wrap a clean sheet around the patient, treat for shock and seek immediate medical attention.”
Use Caution
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of burn cream: The easiest way to deal with a burn is to avoid one in the first place. First, don’t hold hot pans or pots while pouring hot liquids. Instead, place them on the ground.
Second, always squat next to a campfire instead of standing and leaning over it, which reduces the chances of slipping or tripping, and keeps you safe from flare-ups. And finally — and this seems obvious — never jump over a campfire.
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Related Articles
Previous
Activities to help keep your Scouts adventuring after dark
Next
Visit Camp Pico Blanco in the heart of California’s Big Sur area
4 Comments
Ted says:
April 25, 2017 at 4:31 pm
I think that this is an okay article when you are dealing with adults, but when you are dealing with other people’s kids then I think you have to err a little bit more on the side of caution. I’ve dealt with a couple fairly serious 2nd degree burns on Scouts, (as in covering areas bigger than your hand spread out), and in all cases we brought them out for medical treatment. NO parent ever complained about too much medical treatment, and they shouldn’t with the BSA backing them up insurance wise.
If it’s your own kids in the backcountry and you want to treat it yourself, feel free. If it’s other people’s kids then get them to a doctor and let them handle it.
Reply
Russell Parker says:
April 30, 2017 at 12:12 am
This is good information, however when specifically talking about backcountry treatment I think it is important to have a section on what to do if immediate medical attention is not available. Not a situation we ever want our boys to be in, but I think we want them to know what to do if help is not available for some reason.
Reply
john cousino says:
May 5, 2017 at 11:56 am
I am not sure your source but here the most recent guides put out the wilderness medical society for burns in the wilderness
BURNS
In the wilderness, any burn that meets the following criteria should evacuated:
• Partial thickness (2nd degree) burn greater than 10% of TBSA.
• Full thickness (3rd degree) burn that is greater than 1% of TBSA.
• Major burn of the hand, face, feet or genitals.
• Burn with inhalation injury.
• Electric burn.
• Burn in a medically ill victim.
Advanced wilderness life support evacuation guide 2017
Reply
Chris says:
September 2, 2018 at 8:07 pm
Likewise, Desert Mountain Medicine advises
Evacuate anyone with:
•	Any burn that inhibits patient comfort, inability to travel or participate or lack of first aid materials.
•	Full thickness burns. [even if less than 1% TBSA]
•	Partial and/or full thickness circumferential burns. [it goes all the way around a limb or anything else]
•	Partial thickness burns to the face, hands, feet and genitalia
•	Electrical or chemical burns
•	Signs and symptoms of a burned airway such as a raspy voice, soot and/or singed hair around the mouth and/or nose, dry cough, audible wheeze and respiratory distress.
Wilderness First Responder guide – Desert Mountain Medicine, 2018
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
ADVERTISEMENT
Top Scouting Articles
Work Worth Doing: A unique relationship leads to a unique Scout outing
Step In, Speak Up: 10 actions you can take to help eliminate bullying
World’s Best: International Scouters enhance BSA
From the Chief: Welcoming the World to West Virginia
How to make Cub Scout day camp count
Breaking down barriers at a school for the deaf and blind
Grace Under Fire: Scouts respond after California fires
From the Chief: Scouting is for everyone
Pointers on helping your Scouts become OA members
Meet a globe-trotting Michigan Scouter who served in Afghanistan
ADVERTISEMENT
SCOUTINGMAGAZINE.ORG
Cub Scouts
Scouts BSA
Leaders
Training
Outdoors
Gear
Life Skills
Bryan on Scouting
Scouting magazine
Subscribe Today!
Follow Us
Contact Us
ONLINE: scoutingmagazine.org/contact-us
PHONE: (866) 584-6589
MAIL: 1325 W. Walnut Hill Lane, P.O. Box 152401, Irving, TX 75015-2401
Join Scouting
Visit beascout.org to find out how you can get involved in Scouting.
Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Contact Us
Digital Edition
Advertising
Fundraising
Privacy Policy
© 2019, Boy Scouts of America. All rights reserved.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.