Coping with Depression - HelpGuide.org
Skip to content
Contact
Newsletter
Harvard Collaboration
Friends of HelpGuide
TwitterFacebookInstagramPinterest
Search for:
Your trusted guide to mental health & wellness
MENTAL HEALTH
ADHD
ADHD and School
ADHD in Children
ADHD in Adults
ADHD Medications
ADHD Parenting Tips
ADHD Tests and Diagnosis
Adult ADHD and Relationships
Teaching Students with ADHD
Tips for Managing Adult ADHD
Treatment for Adult ADHD
Treatment for Children with ADHD
Addiction
Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse
Drug Abuse and Addiction
Gambling Addiction and Problem Gambling
How to Quit Smoking
Overcoming Alcohol Addiction
Overcoming Drug Addiction
Smartphone Addiction
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Issues
Anxiety
Anxiety Disorders and Anxiety Attacks
Anxiety Medication
Cutting and Self-Harm
Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)
How to Stop Worrying
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
Panic Attacks and Panic Disorder
Phobias and Irrational Fears
Separation Anxiety and Separation Anxiety Disorder
Social Anxiety Disorder
Therapy for Anxiety Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Bipolar Disorder Signs and Symptoms
Bipolar Disorder Treatment
Bipolar Medication Guide
Helping Someone with Bipolar Disorder
Living with Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Antidepressant Medication
Coping with Depression
Depression in Men
Depression in Older Adults
Depression in Women
Depression Symptoms and Warning Signs
Depression Treatment
Helping Someone with Depression
Parent’s Guide to Teen Depression
Postpartum Depression and the Baby Blues
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)
Teenager’s Guide to Depression
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) Therapy
Eating Disorders
Anorexia Nervosa
Binge Eating Disorder
Bulimia Nervosa
Eating Disorder Treatment and Recovery
Helping Someone with an Eating Disorder
Grief & Loss
Coping with Grief and Loss
Coping with Losing a Pet
Dealing with a Breakup or Divorce
Helping Someone Who’s Grieving
Personality Disorders
Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD)
Helping Someone with Borderline Personality Disorder
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
PTSD & Trauma
Emotional and Psychological Trauma
Helping Children Cope with Trauma
Helping Someone with PTSD
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
PTSD in Military Veterans
Recovering from Rape and Sexual Trauma
Traumatic Stress
Schizophrenia
Helping Someone with Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Symptoms and Coping Tips
Schizophrenia Treatment and Self-Help
Stress
Burnout Prevention and Treatment
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Job Loss and Unemployment Stress
Quick Stress Relief
Relaxation Techniques
Stress and Your Health
Stress in the Workplace
Stress Management
Stress Symptoms, Signs, and Causes
Suicide Prevention
Are You Feeling Suicidal?
Suicide Prevention
HEALTHY LIVING
Diets & Weight Loss
Cancer Prevention Diet
Childhood Obesity and Weight Problems
Emotional Eating
Heart-Healthy Diet Tips
How to Lose Weight and Keep It Off
The Diabetes Diet
The Mediterranean Diet
Exercise & Fitness
How to Exercise if You Have Limited Mobility
How to Start Exercising and Stick to It
Senior Exercise and Fitness Tips
The Mental Health Benefits of Exercise
Nutrition
Calcium and Bone Health
Choosing Healthy Fats
Choosing Healthy Protein
Cooking at Home
Diet and Nutrition Tips for Women
Eating Well as You Age
Healthy Eating
Healthy Fast Food
Healthy Food for Kids
High-Fiber Foods
Organic Foods: What You Need to Know
Refined Carbs and Sugar: The Diet Saboteurs
Sleep
How to Sleep Better
How to Stop Snoring
Insomnia
Narcolepsy
Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS)
Sleep Apnea
Sleep Disorders and Problems
Sleep Needs
Sleeping Pills & Natural Sleep Aids
Sleep Tips for Older Adults
Therapy for Sleep Disorders
Stress
Burnout Prevention and Treatment
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Job Loss and Unemployment Stress
Quick Stress Relief
Relaxation Techniques
Stress and Your Health
Stress in the Workplace
Stress Management
Stress Symptoms, Signs, and Causes
Wellness
Building Better Mental Health
Cultivating Happiness
Emotional Intelligence Toolkit
Finding a Therapist Who Can Help You Heal
How to Improve Your Memory
Improving Emotional Intelligence (EQ)
Laughter is the Best Medicine
Living Well with a Disability
Mood-Boosting Power of Pets
The Benefits of Play for Adults
Volunteering and its Surprising Benefits
Work
Burnout Prevention and Treatment
Conflict Resolution Skills
Effective Communication
Finding the Right Career
Job Loss and Unemployment Stress
Job Networking Tips
Stress in the Workplace
Volunteering and its Surprising Benefits
CHILDREN & FAMILY
ADHD
ADHD and School
ADHD in Children
ADHD Medications
ADHD Parenting Tips
ADHD Tests and Diagnosis
Teaching Students with ADHD
Treatment for Children with ADHD
Autism
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Does My Child Have Autism?
Helping Your Child with Autism Thrive
Caregiving
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Family Caregiving
Hospice and Palliative Care
Late Stage and End-of-Life Care
Respite Care
Tips for Alzheimer’s Caregivers
Childhood Issues
Bullying and Cyberbullying
Child Abuse and Neglect
Childhood Obesity and Weight Problems
Children and Divorce
Reactive Attachment Disorder (RAD) and Other Attachment Issues
Separation Anxiety and Separation Anxiety Disorder
Learning Disabilities
Helping Children with Learning Disabilities
Learning Disabilities and Disorders
Parenting & Family
Blended Family and Step-Parenting Tips
Building a Secure Attachment Bond with Your Baby
Children and Divorce
Co-Parenting Tips for Divorced Parents
Creating Secure Infant Attachment
Grandparents Raising Grandchildren
What is Secure Attachment and Bonding?
When Your Baby Won’t Stop Crying
Teen Issues
Anorexia Nervosa
Binge Eating Disorder
Bulimia Nervosa
Bullying and Cyberbullying
Cutting and Self-Harm
Help for Parents of Troubled Teens
Parent’s Guide to Teen Depression
Smartphone Addiction
Teenager’s Guide to Depression
RELATIONSHIPS
Communication
Anger Management
Effective Communication
Conflict Resolution Skills
Managing Conflict with Humor
Nonverbal Communication
Domestic Abuse
Child Abuse and Neglect
Domestic Violence and Abuse
Elder Abuse and Neglect
Help for Men Who Are Being Abused
How to Get Out of an Abusive Relationship
Recovering from Rape and Sexual Trauma
Emotional Intelligence
Emotional Intelligence Toolkit
Improving Emotional Intelligence (EQ)
Love & Friendship
Dating Tips for Finding the Right Person
Dealing with Loneliness and Shyness
Making Good Friends
Relationship Help
Dealing with a Breakup or Divorce
AGING
Alzheimer’s Disease & Dementia
Age-Related Memory Loss
Alzheimer’s and Dementia Behavior Management
Alzheimer’s Disease
Dementia Symptoms, Types, and Causes
Preventing Alzheimer’s Disease
Tips for Alzheimer’s & Dementia Caregivers
Vascular Dementia
Caregiving
Adult Day Care Services
Alzheimer’s and Dementia Behavior Management
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Family Caregiving
Home Care Services for Seniors
Hospice and Palliative Care
Late Stage and End-of-Life Care
Respite Care
Tips for Alzheimer’s & Dementia Caregivers
End of Life
Advanced Health Care Directives and Living Wills
Coping with Grief and Loss
Hospice and Palliative Care
Late Stage and End-of-Life Care
Saying Goodbye
When a Loved One is Terminally Ill
Healthy Aging
Age and Driving
Aging Well
Better Sex as You Age
Depression in Older Adults
Elder Abuse and Neglect
Grandparents Raising Grandchildren
How to Exercise if You Have Limited Mobility
How to Improve Your Memory
Living Well with a Disability
Senior Exercise and Fitness Tips
Senior Housing Options
Sleep Tips for Older Adults
Nutrition for Seniors
Calcium and Bone Health
Choosing Healthy Fats
Choosing Healthy Protein
Cooking at Home
Diet and Nutrition Tips for Women
Eating Well as You Age
Healthy Eating
Healthy Fast Food
High-Fiber Foods
Organic Foods: What You Need to Know
Refined Carbs and Sugar: The Diet Saboteurs
Senior Housing
Adult Day Care Services
A Guide to Nursing Homes
Assisted Living Facilities
Home Care Services for Seniors
Independent Living for Seniors
Senior Housing Options
ABOUT US
HelpGuide’s Story
Meet Our Team
Jeanne Segal, Ph.D.
DONATE
Search for:
Coping with DepressionMelinda2019-03-20T16:46:41+00:00
PDF Version
Coping with Depression
Tips for Overcoming Depression One Step at a Time
Depression drains your energy, hope, and drive, making it difficult to take the steps that will help you to feel better. But while overcoming depression isn’t quick or easy, it’s far from impossible. You can’t just will yourself to “snap out of it,” but you do have more control than you realize—even if your depression is severe and stubbornly persistent. The key is to start small and build from there. Feeling better takes time, but you can get there by making positive choices for yourself each day.
How do you deal with depression?
Dealing with depression requires action, but taking action when you’re depressed can be hard. Sometimes, just thinking about the things you should do to feel better, like exercising or spending time with friends, can seem exhausting or impossible to put into action.
It’s the Catch-22 of depression recovery: The things that help the most are the things that are the most difficult to do. There is a big difference, however, between something that’s difficult and something that’s impossible. You may not have much energy, but by drawing on all your reserves, you should have enough to take a walk around the block or pick up the phone to call a loved one.
Taking the first step is always the hardest. But going for a walk or getting up and dancing to your favorite music, for example, is something you can do right now. And it can substantially boost your mood and energy for several hours—long enough to put a second recovery step into action, such as preparing a mood-boosting meal or arranging to meet an old friend. By taking the following small but positive steps day by day, you’ll soon soon lift the heavy fog of depression and find yourself feeling happier, healthier, and more hopeful again.
Coping with depression tip 1: Reach out and stay connected
Getting support plays an essential role in overcoming depression. On your own, it can be difficult to maintain a healthy perspective and sustain the effort required to beat depression. At the same time, the very nature of depression makes it difficult to reach out for help. When you’re depressed, the tendency is to withdraw and isolate so that connecting to even close family members and friends can be tough.
You may feel too exhausted to talk, ashamed at your situation, or guilty for neglecting certain relationships. But this is just the depression talking. Staying connected to other people and taking part in social activities will make a world of difference in your mood and outlook. Reaching out is not a sign of weakness and it won’t mean you’re a burden to others. Your loved ones care about you and want to help. And if you don’t feel that you have anyone to turn to, it’s never too late to build new friendships and improve your support network.
How to reach out for depression support
Look for support from people who make you feel safe and cared for. The person you talk to doesn’t have to be able to fix you; they just need to be a good listener—someone who’ll listen attentively and compassionately without being distracted or judging you.
Make face-time a priority. Phone calls, social media, and texting are great ways to stay in touch, but they don’t replace good old-fashioned in-person quality time. Â The simple act of talking to someone face to face about how you feel can play a big role in relieving depression and keeping it away.
Try to keep up with social activities even if you don’t feel like it. Often when you’re depressed, it feels more comfortable to retreat into your shell, but being around other people will make you feel less depressed.
Find ways to support others. It’s nice to receive support, but research shows you get an even bigger mood boost from providing support yourself. So find ways—both big and small—to help others: volunteer, be a listening ear for a friend, do something nice for somebody.
Care for a pet. While nothing can replace the human connection, pets can bring joy and companionship into your life and help you feel less isolated. Caring for a pet can also get you outside of yourself and give you a sense of being needed—both powerful antidotes to depression.
Join a support group for depression. Being with others dealing with depression can go a long way in reducing your sense of isolation. You can also encourage each other, give and receive advice on how to cope, and share your experiences.
10 tips for staying connected
Talk to one person about your feelings
Help someone else by volunteering
Have lunch or coffee with a friend
Ask a loved one to check in with you regularly
Accompany someone to the movies, a concert, or a small get-together
Call or email an old friend
Go for a walk with a workout buddy
Schedule a weekly dinner date
Meet new people by taking a class or joining a club
Confide in a clergy member, teacher, or sports coach
Tip 2: Do things that make you feel good
In order to overcome depression, you have to do things that relax and energize you. This includes following a healthy lifestyle, learning how to better manage stress, setting limits on what you’re able to do, and scheduling fun activities into your day.
Do things you enjoy (or used to)
While you can’t force yourself to have fun or experience pleasure, you can push yourself to do things, even when you don’t feel like it. You might be surprised at how much better you feel once you’re out in the world. Even if your depression doesn’t lift immediately, you’ll gradually feel more upbeat and energetic as you make time for fun activities.
Pick up a former hobby or a sport you used to like. Express yourself creatively through music, art, or writing. Go out with friends. Take a day trip to a museum, the mountains, or the ballpark.
Support your health
Aim for eight hours of sleep. Depression typically involves sleep problems; whether you’re sleeping too little or too much, your mood suffers. Get on a better sleep schedule by learning healthy sleep habits.
Keep stress in check. Not only does stress prolong and worsen depression, but it can also trigger it. Figure out all the things in your life that stress you out, such as work overload, money problems, or unsupportive relationships, and find ways to relieve the pressure and regain control.
Practice relaxation techniques. A daily relaxation practice can help relieve symptoms of depression, reduce stress, and boost feelings of joy and well-being. Try yoga, deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, or meditation.
Develop a “wellness toolbox” to deal with depression
Come up with a list of things that you can do for a quick mood boost. The more “tools” for coping with depression, the better. Try and implement a few of these ideas each day, even if you’re feeling good.
Spend some time in nature
List what you like about yourself
Read a good book
Watch a funny movie or TV show
Take a long, hot bath
Take care of a few small tasks
Play with a pet
Talk to friends or family face-to-face
Listen to music
Do something spontaneous
Tip 3: Get moving
When you’re depressed, just getting out of bed can seem like a daunting task, let alone working out! But exercise is a powerful depression fighter—and one of the most important tools in your recovery arsenal. Research shows that regular exercise can be as effective as medication for relieving depression symptoms. It also helps prevent relapse once you’re well.
To get the most benefit, aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise per day. This doesn’t have to be all at once—and it’s okay to start small. A 10-minute walk can improve your mood for two hours.
Exercise is something you can do right now to boost your mood
Your fatigue will improve if you stick with it. Starting to exercise can be difficult when you’re depressed and feeling exhausted. But research shows that your energy levels will improve if you keep with it. Exercise will help you to feel energized and less fatigued, not more.
Find exercises that are continuous and rhythmic. The most benefits for depression come from rhythmic exercise—such as walking, weight training, swimming, martial arts, or dancing—where you move both your arms and legs.
Add a mindfulness element, especially if your depression is rooted in unresolved trauma or fed by obsessive, negative thoughts. Focus on how your body feels as you move—such as the sensation of your feet hitting the ground, or the feeling of the wind on your skin, or the rhythm of your breathing.
Pair up with an exercise partner. Not only does working out with others enable you to spend time socializing, it can also help to keep you motivated. Try joining a running club, taking a water aerobics or dance class, seeking out tennis partners, or enrolling in a soccer or volleyball league.
Take a dog for a walk. If don’t own a dog, you can volunteer to walk homeless dogs for an animal shelter or rescue group. You’ll not only be helping yourself but also be helping to socialize and exercise the dogs, making them more adoptable.
Tip 4: Eat a healthy, depression-fighting diet
What you eat has a direct impact on the way you feel. Reduce your intake of foods that can adversely affect your brain and mood, such as caffeine, alcohol, trans fats, and foods with high levels of chemical preservatives or hormones (such as certain meats).
Don’t skip meals. Going too long between meals can make you feel irritable and tired, so aim to eat something at least every three to four hours.
Minimize sugar and refined carbs. You may crave sugary snacks, baked goods, or comfort foods such as pasta or French fries, but these “feel-good” foods quickly lead to a crash in mood and energy. Aim to cut out as much of these foods as possible.
Boost your B vitamins. Deficiencies in B vitamins such as folic acid and B-12 can trigger depression. To get more, take a B-complex vitamin supplement or eat more citrus fruit, leafy greens, beans, chicken, and eggs.
Boost your mood with foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids play an essential role in stabilizing mood. The best sources are fatty fish such as salmon, herring, mackerel, anchovies, sardines, tuna, and some cold-water fish oil supplements.
Tip 5: Get a daily dose of sunlight
Sunlight can help boost serotonin levels and improve your mood. Whenever possible, get outside during daylight hours and expose yourself to the sun for at least 15 minutes a day. Remove sunglasses (but never stare directly at the sun) and use sunscreen as needed.
Take a walk on your lunch break, have your coffee outside, enjoy an al fresco meal, or spend time gardening.
Double up on the benefits of sunlight by exercising outside. Try hiking, walking in a local park, or playing golf or tennis with a friend.
Increase the amount of natural light in your home and workplace by opening blinds and drapes and sitting near windows.
If you live somewhere with little winter sunshine, try using a light therapy box.
Dealing with the winter blues
For some people, the reduced daylight hours of winter lead to a form of depression known as seasonal affective disorder (SAD). SAD can make you feel like a completely different person to who you are in the summer: hopeless, sad, tense, or stressed, with no interest in friends or activities you normally love. No matter how hopeless you feel, though, there are plenty of things you can do to keep your mood stable throughout the year.
Tip 6: Challenge negative thinking
Do you feel like you’re powerless or weak? That bad things happen and there’s not much you can do about it? That your situation is hopeless? Depression puts a negative spin on everything, including the way you see yourself and your expectations for the future.
When these types of thoughts overwhelm you, it’s important to remember that this is a symptom of your depression and these irrational, pessimistic attitudes—known as cognitive distortions—aren’t realistic. When you really examine them they don’t hold up. But even so, they can be tough to give up. You can’t break out of this pessimistic mind frame by telling yourself to “just think positive.” Often, it’s part of a lifelong pattern of thinking that’s become so automatic you’re not even completely aware of it. Rather, the trick is to identify the type of negative thoughts that are fueling your depression, and replace them with a more balanced way of thinking.
Negative, unrealistic ways of thinking that fuel depression
All-or-nothing thinking – Looking at things in black-or-white categories, with no middle ground (“If I fall short of perfection, I’m a total failure.”)
Overgeneralization – Generalizing from a single negative experience, expecting it to hold true forever (“I can’t do anything right.”)
The mental filter – Ignoring positive events and focusing on the negative. Noticing the one thing that went wrong, rather than all the things that went right.
Diminishing the positive – Coming up with reasons why positive events don’t count (“She said she had a good time on our date, but I think she was just being nice.”)
Jumping to conclusions – Making negative interpretations without actual evidence. You act like a mind reader (“He must think I’m pathetic”) or a fortune teller (“I’ll be stuck in this dead-end job forever.”)
Emotional reasoning – Believing that the way you feel reflects reality (“I feel like such a loser. I really am no good!”)
‘Shoulds’ and ‘should-nots’ – Holding yourself to a strict list of what you should and shouldn’t do, and beating yourself up if you don’t live up to your rules.
Labeling – Classifying yourself based on mistakes and perceived shortcomings (“I’m a failure; an idiot; a loser.”)
Put your thoughts on the witness stand
Once you identify the destructive thoughts patterns that contribute to your depression, you can start to challenge them with questions such as:
“What’s the evidence that this thought is true? Not true?”
“What would I tell a friend who had this thought?”
“Is there another way of looking at the situation or an alternate explanation?”
“How might I look at this situation if I didn’t have depression?”
As you cross-examine your negative thoughts, you may be surprised at how quickly they crumble. In the process, you’ll develop a more balanced perspective and help to relieve your depression.
When to get professional help for depression
If you’ve taken self-help steps and made positive lifestyle changes and still find your depression getting worse, seek professional help. Needing additional help doesn’t mean you’re weak. Sometimes the negative thinking in depression can make you feel like you’re a lost cause, but depression can be treated and you can feel better!
Don’t forget about these self-help tips, though. Even if you’re receiving professional help, these tips can be part of your treatment plan, speeding your recovery and preventing depression from returning.
Where to turn for help
In the U.S.: Find DBSA Chapters/Support Groups or call the NAMI Helpline for support and referrals at 1-800-950-6264
UK: Find Depression support groups in-person and online or call the Mind Infoline at 0300 123 3393
Australia: Find Support Groups and regional resources or call the SANE Help Centre at 1800 18 7263
India: Call the Vandrevala Foundation Helpline (India) at 1860 2662 345 or 1800 2333 330
Canada: Call Mood Disorders Society of Canada at 519-824-5565
Suicide prevention help
In the U.S.: Call National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255
UK and Ireland: Call Samaritans UK at 116 123
Australia: Call Lifeline Australia at 13 11 14
Other countries: Visit IASP or International Suicide Hotlines to find a helpline near you
Recommended reading
Understanding Depression – The many faces of depression and how to find relief. (Harvard Medical School Special Health Report)
Back from the Bluez – Self-help modules for coping with depression. (Center for Clinical Interventions)
How Depression Causes Negative ‘Spin’ – Common cognitive distortions and how to change them. (clinical-depression.co.uk)
Authors: Melinda Smith, M.A., Lawrence Robinson, and Jeanne Segal, Ph.D. Last updated: December 2018.
Related articles
Helping Someone with Depression
Antidepressant Medication
Depression Treatment
Depression Symptoms and Warning Signs
Share
Tweet
Pin
Email
Was this page helpful?
Related articles
Helping Someone with Depression
Antidepressant Medication
Depression Treatment
Depression Symptoms and Warning Signs
Was this page helpful?
Follow Us
DONATE
Contact Info
HelpGuide.org International
1250 6th St., Suite 400
Santa Monica, CA 90401
More
Friends of HelpGuide
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
About Us
Newsletter
Our content does not constitute a medical or psychological consultation. See a certified medical or mental health professional for diagnosis. Learn more.
© 1999-2019 HelpGuide.org. All rights reserved.
Was this page helpful?*
Yes
No
Please tell us how this page was helpful.*
How can we improve this page?*
Name
Email
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
X