Arthritis Pain - Medicinal herbal plants can complement medical treatment.
Your best source for herbal remedies information.
Home Page
News
Contact
Privacy
Main Menu
DigHerbs Blog | Using Herbs | Make Your Own | All Herbs Pages | A to H | I to P | Q to Z
Ailments Pages | A to D | E to L | M to Z
Resources |
[?] Subscribe To DigHerbs
Web Stats
DigSearch!
Latest news
Now 395 398! pages of information on all the most important herbs and herbal remedies - and still plenty to come. Bookmark the site now! Want to link with us?
Arthritis Pain
Arthritis pain is as a result of an autoimmune disorder and is one of the most severe forms of the disease. It normally affects the joints, especially in the hands, feet and fingers. It usually affects both sides of the body at once. The disease destroys the protective cartilage in the joint. Women are more likely to suffer from this disease than men.
Symptoms
Symptoms include aching or stiffness in the joints, especially upon waking; loss of motion in the joints that are affected and decreased strength in the muscles attached to those joints. Other symptoms you may experience are fatigue, low fever, small lumps that form under the skin called rheumatoid nodules and deformity of the joints over time.
Causes
The cause of the underlying disease and resultant pain, Rheumatoid arthritis, is not known, it can be triggered by viral or bacterial infection. The immune system turns on itself, trying to attack the virus.
Cautions
Left untreated, rheumatoid arthritis can be debilitating due to the pain, inflammation, and deterioration of the affected joints. Medicinal plants can complement medical treatment however you should consult your doctor and follow a regulated treatment.
Herbal Treatments
Internal Applications
Boswellia – this Ayurvedic herb has been proven by studies to be beneficial for arthritic pain and stiffness as well as aiding joint function. It is an anti-inflammatory without detrimental side effects. Take 400-800 mg of extract in capsules or tablets up to three times a day.
Celery – use the seeds of this herb to help remove uric acid from the joints for gout and arthritis. Boil 1 teaspoon of celery seeds in a cup of water for 15 minutes. Strain out the seeds and sip the tea slowly.
Chinese skullcap – this herb has been used for a long time to relieve arthritis pain. There are no known adverse reactions to this herb at therapeutic levels.
Feverfew – this herb has been used to treat fever, migraine and arthritis. It inhibits inflammation.
Ginger – taking 3 to 7 grams of ginger each day can help with rheumatoid arthritis. Studies have shown that arthritis sufferers got at least some relief from swelling and arthritis pain when taking ginger. Ginger tea is a nice way to take this herb, or you can take capsules.
Sarsaparilla – this herb is anti-inflammatory and can be beneficial for rheumatoid arthritis.
Turmeric – this herb is a natural anti-inflammatory and can be as effective as cortisone for some types of inflammation.
Devil's claw – this herb has been shown in studies to be as effective at relieving pain as Vioxx (now off the market).
Black cohosh – this herb relieves pain and inflammation such as occurs with rheumatoid arthritis.
Blue cohosh – this herb is anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic.
Willow - will help relieve symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis - take in tablet or capsule form.
External Applications
Ginger – apply a ginger compress to painful areas to treat rheumatoid arthritis.
Balm of Gilead – this herb resin contains salicin, the same compound that makes aspirin effective. Infuse the resin in oil to create a pleasant-scented oil that can be applied topically to sooth the pain of arthritis.
Black pepper – this herb can be made into an oil to apply to arthritic joints. It is a gentle analgesic and stimulant.
Bladderwrack – this sea herb can be made into sea-pod liniment or used as a compress or plaster to reduce the inflammation and pain of rheumatoid arthritis.
Cayenne - apply cayennne-based ointment to affected area 3 - 4 times a day. Cinnamon can also be used instead of cayenne.
Aromatherapy Applications
Lavender – this essential oil can help relieve the stiffness that occurs in the joints that suffer from arthritis pain. Apply as a compress or massage oil.
Juniper - add 3 drops essential oil to carrier oil, such as jojoba oil, and massage into affected area 3 times a day.
Oregano – oil of oregano can be applied externally to relieve inflammation.
Arthritis Pain Herbal Remedies Top
© 2008 - 2017 Paula Morstead | This site is for informational purposes only, always seek the advice of a health professional before taking any medicines | Design by Andreas Viklund