Acne | Light Therapy Review
Light Therapy Review
Red light therapy, light therapy products, light therapy reviews
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Home/
Archives /
Acne
Archives For Acne
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
August is here, which means school is right around the corner! Sorry if we made you sad with that one. Whether you’re just starting college or you’re going back in the fall, we’re sure you know and understand how teeny tiny college dorm rooms can be. Packing your entire life into a 10 x 10 room is no joke and depending on what kind of light therapy device you use or want to start using, space is something to consider! We have compiled a list of some of our favorite light therapy devices that are perfect for small spaces. Whether you are trying to fight your acne, kick psoriasis’s butt, saying goodbye to rosacea, improve your mood, boost your energy, or anything else you can think of…we’ve got you covered.
Himalayan Salt Lamp:
Amazon for $36.00
Not only are Himalayan salt lamps a beautiful and a wonderful addition to any dorm room…they are also a form of light therapy. A genius, highly effective and scientifically incredible form of light therapy. Think we’re fans?
Natural Living Ideas said it best when sharing with their readers why they love Himalayan salt lamps so much. The website reads, “You don’t know what you’re missing if you’ve never owned a Himalayan salt lamp. It’s like having an open window – a softly glowing natural source of fresh, clean air – on your desk, in your living room, next to the bed, or anywhere you choose to put it.” (naturallivingideas.com)
The lamps have a wide range of benefits and we can’t understand why anyone wouldn’t want one! They treat Seasonal Affective Disorder, boost energy, mood, and concentration levels, cleanse and deodorize the air, reduce asthma and allergy symptoms, ease coughing, neutralize electromagnetic radiation, and reduce static electricity in the air. Oh and they’re one of the most environmentally friendly light sources on the market!
Lumie Bodyclock Wake-Up Light:
Amazon for $115.00
This sunrise and sunset simulator mimics the outdoor light and it’s timing with the day. You can set an alarm for the simulator to turn itself on and off in tune with your brain’s internal clock. For example, set the alarm to occur every day at 8 o’clock in the morning. The simulator will begin to mimic the sunrise inside your bedroom. This allows you to feel rested and ready for the day, waking up with the sun. The same goes for sunset. The “sun” can slowly begin to set as your day begins to wind down. It can also be used as just an alarm clock, an FM radio, and many other extra audio options. This product is highly rated and reviewed, having proved over and over to help keep your internal clock in check. The best part? It’s small! It’s perfect for the bedside table in any college dorm room.
Skin Care Options – LA Goodwind PH-1 Facial Massager Portable:
Amazon for $73.99
When it comes to skin care, it’s easy to buy every product, every cream, every device, and every extract on the market. Thanks to light therapy, you really only need one good device and a moisturizer. The LA Goodwind Facial Massager is small and portable and the perfect skin care treatment for any college student! It comes with three different heads — red, blue, and yellow — which makes your options endless! The red photon light will help you moisturize, reduce wrinkles and fine lines, restore elasticity, regenerate skin cells, and over all rejuvenate your skin. The blue photon light will fight acne, fade any scarring, reduce inflammation, kill bacteria in your pores, and lift and firm your skin. The yellow photon light improves dull skin tones, fades dark spots, and leaves your skin bright and pure! We weren’t kidding – your options are endless! The handheld device also includes a charging dock and protective goggles.
Posted on August 30, 2017	In Acne, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Products, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Skin Rejuvenation, Skin Treatments, Small Space, Travel
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
As you can most likely tell by now, we’re very much into light therapy. We’re strong believers in the theory that it can treat just about anything that you don’t want in your mind or body. Light therapy is commonly used for a wide array of conditions and disorders, from cancer, to depression, to acne. Because the scope of what light therapy can treat is quite large, there are many different forms of treatment. There are many different devices, schedules, and factors to consider before beginning treatment. We have narrowed all of these factors down to 3 key elements: duration, timing, and intensity. These elements will exist regardless of the condition or disorder that you are attempting to treat – so listen close!
The duration of the light therapy treatments refers to how long the treatment is conducted and the scheduling of it. This can range from once a week for two months all the way to five days a week for a year depending on the condition. The timing of the light therapy treatment refers to how long the treatment is conducted. For example, sitting in front of light box for 30 minutes, or keeping a body wrap around the back for 15 minutes. The intensity of light therapy treatments refers to the power of the light therapy device being used. For example, using a light box with 10,000 lux in order to treat seasonal depression. When these three key elements are accurately combined, the world of light therapy will open up to you. The treatment’s potential will be endless and you will find yourself on a path to a happier and healthier life.
Determining These Three Key Elements…
Light Boxes & Depression:
Seasonal Affective Disorder is a form of depression that occurs each year during the fall and winter. The depression occurs due to the lack of sunlight as well as day light savings. These tough months can seriously affect our circadian rhythm, which is the internal clock inside our brains. Normal depression, which can occurs during any of the 12 months of the year, is also very sensitive to light. Using a light box in a situation such as this has been proven extremely effective. If someone is struggling with Seasonal Affective Disorder, a light box will lift their mood and remind their brain what time of day it is in order to keep mood levels high. If someone is struggling with depression, a light box can help by effectively elevating the chemicals in the brain that make us feel low.
After much research, the ideal light boxes have been created to fit individual’s lifestyles. Light boxes come in all different shapes and sizes as well as different intensity levels. The method of treatment may vary depending on the severity of the seasonal depression as well as the device being used. The stronger the light, the less time should be spent in front of the light box. Most people use light boxes for a minimum of 30 minutes each morning. A morning treatment can start your day off right and keep your body’s internal clock in check. However, some people don’t have time in the morning and choose to do the treatment at a different time. This is okay, too. The more effectively you can fit the treatment into your schedule, the more you will benefit from it. Below is a list of light sources and how much light we receive indoors versus outdoors. Also, note that lux is a standard unit of light flow.
Bright moonlight – 1 lux
Candle light at 20 cm – 10-15 lux
Street light – 10-20 lux
Normal living room lighting – 100 lux
Office fluorescent light – 300-500 lux
Sunlight, 1 hour before sunset – 1000 lux
Daylight, cloudy sky – 5000 lux
Daylight, clear sky – 10,000-20.000 lux
Bright sunlight – 20,000-100,000 lux
Outdoors on a sunny day is 50-100 times brighter than office or room lighting.
(List borrowed from PsychEducation.Org)
With that being said, most light boxes are around 10,000 lux. It’s important to keep cost in mind as well. The higher intensity of the device, the more expensive it is going to be. However, if Seasonal Affective Disorder or depression are controlling your life, cost becomes less important, don’t you think?
Dawn simulators have also been proven extremely effective in scenarios such Seasonal Affective Disorder and depression and they are noticeably cheaper than light boxes. A dawn simulator mimics the sunrise and sunset in your home through a small lamp. A timer must be set and when it’s time for you to start waking up, the simulator will turn on, mimicking the sunrise. This can be left on throughout the day and then slowly shut off as your day winds down. Most people only use the simulator to wake up, acting as an alarm clock. But for people working from home or spending a lot of time in their home during the fall and winter months, it may be effective and helpful to leave the simulator on throughout the day.
Light Boxes & Other Mood Disorders:
Light boxes and dawn simulators are also extremely effective when it comes to mood disorders such as insomnia and jet lag. Seasonal changes, depression, medications, and stress, can all trigger insomnia. And for people who travel a lot for work or pleasure, jet lag can quickly control your life.
Using a dawn simulator for both of these conditions can be extremely effective. If you’re struggling with insomnia, a dawn simulator will help you wake up and go to sleep at appropriate times, helping create a proper sleep schedule and breaking insomnia. Also, because insomnia is also a side effect of depression, you could kill two birds with one stone. Using a light box could help, too. It could elevate your mood, thus decreasing your stress levels, ultimately letting you fall asleep.
A dawn simulator can help fight off jet lag by keeping your body’s internal clock, or circadian rhythm in check. The simulator will help remind your brain the time of day and get you back to normal. A light box could definitely be effective too, if it is used in the morning. It will keep your brain in sync with the day, put a smile on your face and a glow on your skin.
Light Therapy Devices & Cosmetic Conditions:
Light therapy devices are commonly used to fight acne, slow down the cosmetic aging process, and even reverse hair loss. Handheld devices are typically used for acne and usually use either red or blue light. The device uses infrared lighting to penetrate into the pores on the skin to kill the bacteria that creates acne. The devices can also reduce the inflammation on the skin. This process can be done at home or in a dermatologist’s office. However, at-home treatments are going to be far less expensive. The devices are typically held to the skin for 10 minutes increments and the light is commonly between 400 and 1,000 nanometers in intensity.
Anti-aging is one of the most popular benefits of light therapy. Red light therapy is commonly use for skin rejuvenation. Treatments can reduce wrinkles, minimize fine lines, reduce cellulite markings, and leave you with a young and healthy glow. Handheld devices, similar or the same as the ones use for acne, can help achieve all of these goals. Red light therapy beds are also extremely common. Similar to a tanning bed, the person undergoing the treatment would lie in the bed for a certain amount of time on a set schedule. Typically 15 to 30 minutes one to several times a week.
Hair loss is treated with red light therapy as well. Whether the hair loss is due to old age, pattern baldness, stress, or a skin condition, red light is known to help. The patient will either use a handheld device or a light panel and set a schedule for themselves. The intensity is the same at the options discussed above.
Of course, for all of these things, reading instructions and taking your personal condition into account before beginning treatment will give you the best results.
Light Therapy Devices & Severe Skin Conditions:
Light therapy can help with more serious conditions, such as rosacea, eczema, athlete’s foot, psoriasis, and more. If you are currently taking medication for any of these conditions or similar ones, it may be worth discussing red light therapy with your doctor and finding a better option for your body. The treatments won’t take over your life and can be easily fit into your daily routine.
Red light therapy is used for just about all of these conditions. The same devices discussed above are used for these skin conditions. Blue light therapy is now being used to treat certain types of skin cancers and it is remarkable. A solution is put onto the skin and then blue light is applied to the cancerous areas. The light penetrates through to the skin, killing the cancerous matter.
As discussed before, depending on the severity and exact circumstance of the condition, the treatment’s length and intensity levels differ. These treatments, aside from skin cancer, can be done at home or at a doctor’s office.
Light Therapy & Pain:
Red light therapy is commonly used by athletes for pain management. Red light can treat aches and pains, reduce muscle and joint pain, help manage chronic pain, speed up the healing process for a wide array of injuries, and much more. Red light therapy beds, as discussed above, are commonly used for all of these conditions. Body wraps that use red infrared light are used as well and are much easier to fit to your lifestyle.
Starting A Treatment Plan…
As with all major lifestyle changes regarding your health, it is always important to first consult with a doctor who knows your history. The next step is to choose whether to do the treatments at home or in a doctor’s office. If possible, at-home treatments are usually the best route. Not only are they far less expensive, it is also easier to manage your time around the treatments if you only have to worry about your own schedule. It’s important to choose the right light therapy device. If it doesn’t fit your needs or schedule, you will never use it!
And lastly, but most importantly, keep an open mind. Light therapy is a natural form of therapy. If your mind is open and you stick to a schedule, light therapy can seriously be life changing. The treatment will not heal you over night, but if you are dedicated, you can witness wonders.
Posted on March 27, 2017	In Acne, Chronic Pain, Depression, Insomnia, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
It’s that time of the year when our skin just can’t quite figure out what’s going on. At the start of your week it’s warm and sunny – your face is soaking up all that vitamin D. The sun makes you feel rejuvenated, youthful, and is actually providing you with physical benefits such as clearing acne. Then Wednesday rolls around and it’s freezing again, your skin couldn’t possibly absorb any more moisturizer, and your lips actually hurt to touch. By Friday it’s pouring rain, your makeup is running down your cheeks, and your acne is here to stay. This time of year is far from easy on our skin.
The key to perfect, acne and blemish free skin is consistency and health awareness. Eat well, wash your face every night, frequently change your pillow case, get plenty of vitamin D, then repeat. It’s hard to naturally find the right balance between all of these necessities, let alone actually add all of them to your daily routine. It’s okay to seek some extra help. Light therapy is that helping hand that anyone struggling with acne needs!
What Is Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using different forms of light to help reduce and/or treat a wide array of conditions and disorders. Dermatologists have been using light therapy on their patients for awhile now. And now, thanks to the convenience of new light therapy products, you can also use the treatment at home. During these tough winter months, light therapy can save your skin. It’s easy to use, harm-free, cost effective, and will keep your skin feeling and looking healthy and youthful! Light therapy has been taking down acne one pimply face at a time and showing winter who’s boss.
Light Therapy & Acne:
We all deal with them, those not so pretty blemishes on our cheeks, our noses, our foreheads, our backs, and other unfortunate places. Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follies plug with oil and dead skin cells. The bothersome condition results in pimples, blackheads, and bumps. It’s honestly a pretty difficult condition to conquer. Some people can lay off the greasy potato chips, change their pillow cases every single morning, and still end up with zits on their foreheads. Some people can apply all of the expensive creams in the world, try every homeopathic treatment, read every Pinterest article about how to get rid of their zits, and they will still struggle. Some people deal with terrible side effects with acne medications, or they just can’t afford to keep getting it refilled! This is where light therapy can kick acne right out of your life.
Exposing your skin to different forms of light therapy can help kill the bacteria in and on your skin that causes redness and swelling from acne. Using a form of Light Therapy will not be a quick kill for your zits. It will not just zap them away like a laser does. Instead, the treatment kills the bacteria that causes acne and reduces the amount of oil-producing glands on your skin. This gives your skin a chance to recover by itself, without harming or damaging it for the long run. Depending on what is needed and wanted, the treatment will either be using red light, blue light, or a combination of the two.
What We’ve Learned From The Sun:
If you’ve ever gone on vacation somewhere sunny and warm, or you spend a lot of time outdoors in the summer, you’ll notice the effect the sun has on your skin. Not only are you nice and naturally tan, but it can treat acne and reduce the blemishes on your skin. The red and blue wavelengths of sunlight are what really do the trick. They’re not always visible, and let’s face it, not all of us are lucky enough to live in paradise! We can’t all get natural acne treatments sitting on the beach every day! Sometimes we need a little help. For long term benefits, and for most of us who have to deal with seasonal changes, Light Therapy really does the trick. Light Therapy helps mimic the sun, but actually does a better job due to the fact that you can target the exact light that you want. Meaning you can choose red light, blue light, or both!
Red Light vs. Blue Light:
Red light and blue light each have different effects on the skin, both providing lots of benefits. Even more so when they’re combined!
Facing Acne, a website dedicated to helping people get the clear skin they desire, has a wonderful article explaining light therapy and its effects on acne. The article summarizes the differences between red light and blue light. The website explains,
“Red light reaches deep into the skin and activates hemoglobin. Red light treatment cuts off just enough of the blood supply of oil-producing sebaceous glands that pores don’t get quite as oily. Blue light penetrates pores and kills acne bacteria—but not all the pore’s acne bacteria. There are always some acne bacteria in the sebaceous gland that can’t be reached by blue light.” (FacingAcne.com)
“There are specific wavelengths of visible light that kill acne bacteria. Visible blue light from the sun (in the frequency range of approximately 415 nm) that shines into pores can activate light-sensitive chemicals called porphyrins that are found in the outer cell membranes of the bacteria that cause acne. When these chemicals begin to vibrate in sync with solar energy, they rupture the outer lining of the bacterium. The contents of the bacterial cell begin to leak out, and the bacterium dies within 48 hours.
“Visible red light from the sun has a complementary benefit in treating acne. Solar rays in the frequency range of approximately 650 nanometers reach deeper into the skin, down to the level of the sebocytes that produce the oil that sometimes clogs pores.
“The red rays of the sun are absorbed by red compounds in the skin. They primarily heat up hemoglobin. Ordinary light shining on the surface of the skin, however, only reaches to the depth of the oil glands, and does not cauterize the blood vessels in the skin. The effects of red light on oil-producing glands are temporary, and they begin producing large amounts of oil again a week or two after treatment.” (FacingAcne.com)
Don’t Forget…
It is also important to note that drying out your skin is very easy to do. And dry skin does not mean healthy skin. So when it comes to light therapy, more treatment does not mean better results. Drying or burning your skin by keeping your face too close to your lamp or wand does not improve your skin. Also, using light therapy as your only form of skin treatment will not fix your problems. Light Therapy should always be combined with other methods for the best results. For example, be sure to keep your skin clean, watch what you eat, properly moisturize, change your sheets and pillowcases when necessary, etc.
Are You Sold?
Light Therapy started becoming popular as a way to treat and cure acne when highly intense medicines such as Accutane and Retin-A were given a whole slew of restrictions from the government. Due to the lack of negative effects that Light Therapy has on the body, dermatologists hopped right on board, no longer being afraid of putting their patient’s health on the line. Now instead of prescribing medications or acne, you can now receive in office treatments from your dermatologist. But don’t forget, you can treat yourself at home as well. Blue light and red light therapy devices to use at home or while you’re at a spa have become extremely popular and easy to find.
There are lower cost options such as handheld led lamps for your face or other problem areas. These help heat the oil under your pores so that blackheads can pop out. But there are also higher end devices that have proven to be much more effect. You will not see instant results from any product that you purchase or use at a spa, but being consistent and knowing what you’re doing will go a long way.
Project E Beauty LED Colors Photo Rejuvenation Kit – Facial Beauty Care Massager
Amazon for $54.99
The LED Light Therapy Skin System for Beautiful Skin uses multiple forms of light therapy to target skin conditions. This device is at a slightly higher price point, but you get more for your buck. This skin care package includes three detachable light heads which can be changed according to what your skin requires. The device is hand held, cordless when in use and charges with the included cord. The device is designed to give you a 30 minute treatment per charge and has a built in timer to let you know when your treatments, which are typically 10 minutes long, are finished. The LED Light Therapy Skin Care System has wonderful reviews for treating acne. It can also tighten the skin on your face and body and reduce fine lines and wrinkles.
Don’t let the winter months control the health of your skin! Your skin is craving light therapy. It’s time to jump on board!
Posted on February 22, 2017	In Acne, Light Therapy, Products, Skin Treatments
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
Acne is the one condition that almost anyone, regardless of age, gender, or race, can relate to. We’ve all dealt with it, but have we all conquered it? Light therapy is helping men and women all over the world do just that. Conquer it!
What Is Acne?
Pretty simple question, right? We all know what acne is. It’s those bright red zits that always showed up at the most inopportune times when you were 16. It’s those pestering black heads all across your nose that you can never seem to squeeze out. It’s those patches of red spots showing up on your cheeks when you feel far too old for it. We can all define acne, I’m sure. But why does our skin react the way it does?
Acne is an extremely common skin condition. According to HealthLine, a popular website dedicated to explaining medical conditions and the intricate details of them. In the Symptom Checker section of the website, HealthLine explains just what acne is.
“Acne occurs when the pores on your skin become blocked with oil, dead skin, or bacteria. Each pore on your skin is the opening to a follicle. The follicle is made up of a hair and a sebaceous (oil) gland. The oil gland releases sebum (oil), which travels up the hair, out of the pore, and onto your skin. The sebum keeps your skin lubricated and soft. If you develop acne, this may be because of one or more problems in this lubrication process. These possible causes include:
too much oil or sebum is being produced by the follicle
dead skin cells are accumulating in the pore
bacteria has built up in the pore
An overabundance of oil, a pore clogged by dead skin cells, and bacteria all contribute to the development of pimples. A zit appears when the bacteria grows in the clogged pore and the oil is unable to escape.”
(HealthLine.com)
If your skin is constantly being affected by your pores being plugged, you may be struggling with acne. And no, you’re not unusual if you’re 40 years old and have acne. Acne can affect people of all ages. From young children just entering puberty, to residents in nursing homes. Life isn’t like the movies and sometimes you just get acne.
What Causes Acne?
Acne can be caused by a wide array of things. Hormonal changes, such as puberty or pregnancy can cause temporary acne. Certain medications can increase the risk as well. Birth control pills and corticosteroids are just a couple examples. Diet also plays a major role in developing acne. Unhealthy diets, diets high in refined sugars, and diets high carbohydrates such as bread and chips make the body more susceptible.
People assume that they’re just not washing their face enough, or they need a new face cream, but most of the time that’s not the case. Hey, maybe washing your face did the trick. But for most people, that’s just not the case. Most people need some medical treatment without the crazy costs.
Light Therapy & Acne
Light therapy has been clinically proven by dermatologists for over a decade to treat mild to moderate acne. While treatments can be conducted in doctor’s and dermatologist’s offices, the newest invention is light therapy at home! At home light therapy devices are cost effective, easy to fit into your schedule, and let you be in control! Neutrogena has created a light therapy mask specifically designed to treat acne on men and women. The Neutrogena Light Mask is reinventing how we treat acne at home!
Light therapy kicks acne’s butt with the help of red and blue lights. The two major factors that contribute to acne are bacteria and inflammation. The blue light from the mask kills the acne causing bacteria while the red light penetrates deep into the skin to reduce inflammation. Pretty simple, right? Plus the treatments are convenient and easy! After washing your face, put the mask on, press the activate button, and sit and relax for 10 minutes. The mask should be added into your daily health regime and you’ll start to see results in as little as one week! As long as you stick to a schedule, the Neutrogena Light Mask can completely rejuvenate your skin! You’ll feel and look better than ever.
We love the Neutrogena Light Mask for more than just the fact that it treats acne. The mask comes with a long list of benefits…
100% UV free
Chemical free
FDA cleared
Cost effective
Convenient
Treatments don’t take long
Small and portable
Extremely effective
Creates healthy and youthful glow
A word from the users…
Neutrogena collected reviews from Light Mask users who shared their opinions on Twitter. They then decided to share the reviews on their website. We’ve decided to share some of them with you, just so you can listen to someone besides us, too!
“My skin felt soft, clearer, and less oily than usual. Lightweight and comfortable…very easy to use!”
-Kris1410
“This light therapy mask has been a major game changer in my skin care! It targets the issues within our skin that need more deep, gentle care.”
-LailaB
“My skin feels and looks amazing… I recommend this completely!”
-MarieAntoinette
“Got rid of troubled acne… more than happy with my results as my skin is now clearer than ever before.”
-fan.girl.much.
What do you think? Is it time to buy yourself a Neutrogena Light Mask? Remember, it’s never too late!
Posted on February 20, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Light Therapy, Products, Red Light Therapy
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
What It Is…
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the power of light. With patience, dedication, and a schedule that fits your lifestyle, light therapy can make you feel at the top of your game at all times!
Light therapy can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and so much more. In this article, we are going to discuss how light therapy treats physical conditions. You read that right – light can cure your acne!
How It Works…
Light therapy works to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin disorders, wrinkles, chronic pain, and more by penetrating into the skin and activating specific cellular activity depending on what your body needs and which devices are being used.
When it comes to light therapy in this regard, there are a lot more options and a lot more to explain! Each condition requires a specific device as well as a specific treatment plan. However, when done right, light therapy has the power to completely change the game. Light therapy is all natural, drug-free, harm-free, and cost effective, which can make treatment for all of the following conditions much easier to endure.
Acne:
Red light and blue light therapy are the most common forms of light used to treat acne. The blue light penetrates into the skin to kill acne-causing bacteria in the pores while red light reduces inflammation and reduces the production of oils. The combination of the two is undeniable and can kick acne’s butt in no time.
Skin-Rejuvenating:
When it comes to anti-aging, wrinkles, and sun damage, light therapy is the best. Red light therapy produces elastin and collagen which prevents skin aging. It also increases circulation by relaxing the blood vessels in the specific treatment areas which allows blood to flow more easily. This helps to prevent and diminish wrinkles because increased circulation encourages the production of new skin cells.
Pain:
Light therapy is often used to treat a wide array of pain, even chronic pain, all caused by different conditions. Red Light Therapy can treat muscle pain, joint pain, herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Red light therapy treats this long list because of its power to penetrate deep into the body and reach the tissue beneath the skin with the use of infrared lights, lamps, pads, beds, and more. Red infrared light has the power to activate cellular activity which can begin the body’s natural healing process as well as reduce inflammation which alone can cause great pain.
Wound Healing:
Did you know that red light can heal a wound 200% faster than any other treatment plan? Red and/or infrared red light therapy can close and treat a wound, even in diabetics, which is far from easy. There are quite a few ways that light therapy works to treat wounds:
Increases circulation and the formation of new capillaries. Both of these activities allow the wounded area to receive more of the oxygen and nutrients it needs to heal.
Increases phagocytosis which is the cleanup of dead or damaged cells which helps control infections.
Increases lymph system activity which ensures efficient cleansing and detoxification of wounds without taking over the lymph system.
Stimulates production of fibroblasts which synthesize collagen, elastin, and proteoglycans in final stages of healing process.
Stimulates production of collagen which is key for closing a wound.
Stimulates tissue granulation which forms new connective tissue and small bloods vessels on the surfaces of a wound during healing.
Causes the release of ATP or raw cellular energy. Helps provide energy to the damaged and surrounding cells so they can do what they are meant to do and heal themselves.
Best Brands for Physical Health Light Therapy…
ReVive Light Therapy
Project E Beauty
Tendilite
Light Relief
DPL Flex
Philips
Beaurer North America
Yok Pollar
Posted on February 19, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Wound Healing
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Light therapy is a form of all natural therapy that is changing lives around the world. During the basic and most common form of light therapy, patients sit near a special lamp that emits bright light for a set amount of time on a daily schedule. This artificial lighting is meant to mimic natural outdoor light with the goal of affecting the body’s internal clock. Our internal clocks, or circadian rhythms, regulate the way our brains react to energy during the daytime, sleep during the nighttime, and when our bodies become hungry. Melatonin, a sleep hormone, is naturally released in our brains at night when our internal clock is off. Serotonin, our mood altering hormone that provides us with energy, is supposed to be consistently being released throughout the day, while our internal clock is on and active. However, due to factors such as work schedules, seasonal changes, mental disorders, sleeping problems, and more, it is very easy for our circadian rhythms to be thrown off. This is where light therapy saves us!
Since our circadian rhythms are greatly influenced by natural every day environmental factors such as the sunrise and sunset, light therapy is a wonderful way to make sure our bodies are releasing melatonin and serotonin at the correct times. Doing so can treat mental disorders such as depression and seasonal affective disorder, increase energy and happiness levels, improve skin conditions, and so much more!
As with any medical practice, there is a long list of myths that follow light therapy around. We’re here to share some myths with you and provide you with the facts. Let’s get down to it.
Myth #1: All Light Therapy Is The Same
While we’ve been noting light therapy for mental conditions in this article, there are many different forms of light therapy. Aside from standard bright light treatments, there are also red, blue, and green light therapy devices. These devices can treat skin conditions such as psoriasis and acne. They are also wildly successful at rejuvenating the skin, reducing wrinkles and fine lines, and making you feel like your sixteen year old self again! Red light is also used for muscle and joint pain, wound healing, chronic pain, and more. Don’t stop at bright light, all of the colors are wonderful!
Myth #2: Light Therapy Is Only Used For Depression
It’s true, light therapy is most commonly used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and other forms of depression. However, light therapy has endless potential for our mental and emotional well being. It can also treat sleep disorders, dementia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. Assuming that light therapy is only good for one thing is just silly!
Myth #3: So I Just Stare Into A Light Bulb For Hours?
Wrong! It’s easy to assume that light therapy treatments consist of sitting in front of light bulbs and waiting for the magic to happen. But in actuality, treatment sessions typically don’t last longer than 30 minutes a day. The sessions are easy to fit into your daily routine and most devices allow you to do other activities to pass the time or multitask. Try reading a book, knitting, or eating a meal while sitting in front of your light therapy device!
Also, you wouldn’t stare into the light – so take note of that. A light therapy device usually emits light that is 100 times brighter than most indoor lighting, since the treatments are intense and succinct, so you definitely don’t want to be staring into that bulb!
Myth #4: There Are No Side Effects!
It’s always important to talk with a doctor before starting any new medical treatment. Just because light is natural and we can’t necessarily feel treatment sessions when they’re occurring doesn’t mean that they are 100% harmless. Light therapy can have a negative effect on those with sensitive skin and eyes. It can also cause eye straining, headaches, nausea, or irritability. Most of these side effects are mild and short term, however it is still important to monitor the usage of your light therapy device and consider any personal conditions –such as bipolar disorder or a severe skin condition — before beginning treatment – for example
It’s easy to make assumptions about things that are not normal or common. Light therapy is a world changing treatment that deserves all of the praise and credit you can give it! Make no assumptions about light therapy, don’t believe the myths, and know your facts. If you follow these words, you will end up thanking us! We promise.
Posted on February 17, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Color Light Therapy, Depression, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light therapy is breaking ground all across the world and yet most people go through their every day lives having no idea what it is and how much potential it holds. Light therapy is going to blow your mind!
None of us are perfect, and honestly, more people than you would think struggle with serious disorders that affect their every day lives. Light therapy has been proven effective in a wide array of scenarios. A light box imitates outdoor light, which boosts energy levels and improves health, as well as multiple other perks.The process of using a light box and other forms of the therapy have been successfully treating all sorts of disorders. These conditions range from Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), to depression, to hair loss, to acne that you thought you would never get rid of, to muscle pain, and a little bit of every in between.
Light therapy is powerful, easy to use, cost effective, all natural, harm free, and ready for you whenever you’re ready. Now lets learn what everyone needs to know about light therapy…
It Can Treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and Depression:
If you struggle with any form of depression, light therapy may be a cure for your struggles. Seasonal Affective Disorder or SAD is a form of depression that usually strikes annually during fall and winter. For some people, symptoms for SAD occur during summer and spring, but it is rare. Symptoms for the disorder include irritability, trouble getting along with others, weight gain and major appetite changes, low energy levels, extreme sensitivity to rejection, oversleeping, and an achey, heavy feeling throughout the limbs.
For people with depression, aside from Seasonal Affective Disorder, light therapy can help by simply using a light box to bring their energy levels back to normal. Depression is usually apparent in conjunction with lack of sleep and Circadian Rhythm Disorders. Circadian Rhythm Disorders are changes in a person’s normal rhythm of their 24 hours cycles. When the patterns of the brain wave activity drastically change due to work, pregnancy, medications, time zone changes, routine swaps, and medical issues such as Alzheimer’s, it is hard for the brain to keep up. Making it is easy for depression to creep in. Light therapy can help bring your brain and energy levels back to a point that is difficult to reach without any assistance.
It Can Treat Other Mental Disorders Such As Bipolar Disorder:
More than three million people in the United States are diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder, also referred to as Manic Depression each year. The disorder brings about episodes of mood swings ranging from depressive lows to manic highs. Most people struggling with the disorder undergo periods of elevated moods, either high or low, and increased irritability. A reduced need for sleep, depression symptoms, and loss of interest in passions are all common occurrences.
Unfortunately, Bipolar Disorder cannot be cured, but light therapy has been proven to show signs of improvement. Light therapy helps keep the biological clock on time in people with Bipolar Disorder and other mental illnesses. This clock can be easily agitated and can throw off sleep and wake cycles which are known to stir up symptoms such as mania and depression. Using light therapy aids in regulating biological patterns, in turn reducing mood swings and major brain wave changes.
People who struggle with SAD, depression, and Bipolar Disorder, often face other mental disorders such as Bulimia and Anorexia. The therapy indirectly improves mood, thus reducing the need to binge or purge.
It Can Treat Insomnia:
There are more than three million US cases of Insomnia per year. Insomnia can usually be self-diagnosed and the symptoms include difficulty falling asleep and remaining asleep. People who struggle with Insomnia are often overly tired, lack concentration, show signs of depression, are extremely irritable, and suffer from headaches.
Similar to Bipolar Disorder, insomnia doesn’t have a direct cure. However, light therapy shows major signs of improvement in people and for people who struggle with moderate to mild insomnia, light therapy can most certainly be the cure. The internal clock in people with insomnia is often off which causes them to struggle when it comes to sleep. By managing when the brain releases melatonin and seratonin, insomnia symptoms can be alleviated and the brain’s internal clock can get itself back on track.
It Can Cure Psoriasis and Other Skin Conditions:
Light therapy is extremely effective for skin conditions such as Psoriasis, Vitiligo, Scleroderma, and many other disorders. The process works by decreasing cell growth and inflammation that create skin issues. Psoriasis is a common skin problem that has seen results when treated with light therapy processes. Psoriasis occurs when skin cells build up and form itchy and scaly patches on your body. Using a light box in a scenario such as this would slow down your cell growth and bring this painful condition to a halt. Do you struggle with any of these skin conditions? Light therapy may be the skin treatment you’ve been looking for.
It Can Cure Chronic Pain:
Red light therapy is used every day to treat chronic pain. This form of therapy became popular when professional athletes began using it for pain relief as well as wound healing.
This most likely goes without saying, but no one wants to take pain killers every day. They’re dangerous, your body becomes overly reliant, and they make your stomach a wreck. An even better statement: it’s pretty difficult to lead a happy life when living with chronic pain. No worries. The cure is here.
Red light therapy is very commonly used for pain relief. It’s used in doctor’s offices all over, athlete’s swear by it, Chiropractor’s praise it, and it’ll be hard to find someone with a negative opinion on the matter. It’s gentle, drug-free, non-invasive, and 100% awesome. In most cases, it has proven extremely effective in reducing pains and aches. In some cases, red light therapy has actually totally eliminated aches and pains. Red light therapy can treat herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
It Can Treat Hair Loss:
When it comes to hair regrowth, red light therapy is making our jaws drop. Low Level Light Therapy or Low Light Laser Therapy (LLLT), are what specialists are using and it is directly creating hair regrowth for people who struggle with male pattern baldness, hair loss due to age, stress, and more.
These treatment sessions use red and near infrared light therapy. The treatment does not need to be in the form of a laser to work, but some people prefer it. Wavelengths in the range of 630 to 670 nanometers are most commonly used for this form of Light Therapy. The treatment works because visible red light is capable of being absorbed by the molecules in our hair follicles. When absorbed, this can stimulate growth of the hair thanks to a natural biological reaction. This only works if the light is absorbed, which is why lasers are usually preferred.
It Can Treat Acne, Scars, Wrinkles, and Blemishes:
Most people have struggled or will struggle with those not so pretty blemishes on our cheeks, our noses, our foreheads, our backs, and other unfortunate places. Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follicles plug with oil and dead skin cells. The bothersome condition results in pimples, blackheads, and bumps. It’s honestly a pretty difficult condition to conquer. Some people can lay off the greasy potato chips, change their pillow cases every single morning, and still end up with zits on their foreheads. Some people can apply all of the expensive creams in the world, try every homeopathic treatment, read every Pinterest article about how to get rid of their zits, and they will still struggle. Some people deal with terrible side affects with acne medications, or they just can’t afford to keep getting it refilled! This is where light therapy can kick acne right out of your life.
Exposing your skin to different forms of Light Therapy can help kill the bacteria in and on your skin that causes redness and swelling from acne. Using a form of Light Therapy will not be a quick kill for your zits. It will not just zap them away like a laser does. Instead, the treatment kills the bacteria that causes acne and reduces the amount of oil-producing glands on your skin. It givesyour skin a chance to recover by itself, without harming or damaging it for the long run. Depending on what is needed and wanted, the treatment will either use red light, blue light, or a combination of the two.
Light therapy also works wonders by treating scars, reducing fine lines and wrinkles, and overall rejuvenating your skin to bring back youth and a healthy glow. All of these conditions can be cured with one light therapy device, but depending on your specific conditions and the severity of them, it’s best to do research and speak to a doctor before buying or using a device.
We barely cracked the surface here and we’re excited just talking about light therapy! Light therapy is still new. We learn more every day, and the possibilties are endless. It’s time to get on board!
Posted on November 22, 2016	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Depression, Hair Loss, Insomnia, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Skin Treatments
Red Light Therapy For Skin
What Is Red Light Therapy?
Red light therapy is a form of light that that uses red LED infrared lighting and bulbs to treat a wide array of conditions and disorders.
Red Light Therapy is commonly associated with anti-aging. Skin Rejuvination, to be exact. And while this is true, Red Light Therapy can works wonders in that department, the treatment has a long list of benefits. Ranging from acne to chronic back pain, Red Light Therapy may be the new magical elixir…except this actually works.
Uses For Red Light Therapy:
Wrinkles
Skin rejuvenation
Age spots
Acne
Sun damage
Chronic pain
Joint pain
Muscle pain
Bites
Bruises
Minor burns
Collagen production
Cuts
Scrapes
Dry skin
First aid
Hair loss
Psoriasis
Red marks from acne
Stretch marks
Rosacea
Flushing
Scars
Wound care
Uneven skintone
Red Light Therapy For Skin…
Red Light Therapy devices can be used to help slow down our natural cosmetic aging. Treatment can reduce fine lines and wrinkles while also tightening and firming the skin. Proper treatment can rid of age spots and hyper pigmentation, which usually occurs on the face, neck, and hands. There’s no need for face lifts when you can go the natural route. Red Light Therapy can also diminish blemishes and red spots, along with acne. Thought you could never get rid of those blackheads around your nose? Or those zits that keep showing up around your chin? How about those scars that acne left you with? Regularly scheduled treatment can help you say goodbye to those.
How Does It Work?
Red light therapy uses infrared light which delivers a burst of energy to the body’s tissues and triggers a response for the body to heal itself from the inside. Depending on the affected area and what your body needs, the burst of energy will trigger different responses from your body and kickstart the necessary healing process. This form of light therapy is much better than laser technology because it doesn’t cut the body’s tissues! It’s also much safer and effective than the sun’s rays because it has no harmful UV components. It’s a win win.
Red light therapy effectively treats the skin in a few different forms. When it comes to anti-aging, wrinkles, and sun damage, the treatment is wonderful. Red light therapy produces elastin and collagen which prevents skin aging. It also increases circulation by relaxing the blood vessels in the specific treatment areas which allows blood to flow more easily. This helps to prevent and diminish wrinkles because increased circulation encourages the production of new skin cells. Can you believe that? There’s actually a safe and effective way to say goodbye to wrinkles.
As for treating and getting rid of acne, red light therapy is an extremely popular form of treatment. Facing Acne, a website dedicated to helping people get the clear skin they desire, wrote a wonderful article explaining light therapy and it’s effects on acne. They wrote a brief summary on how red light therapy can treat acne. The website explains,
“Red light reaches deep into the skin and activates hemoglobin. Red light treatment cuts off just enough of the blood supply of oil-producing sebaceous glands that pores don’t get quite as oily. Blue light penetrates pores and kills acne bacteria—but not all the pore’s acne bacteria. There are always some acne bacteria in the sebaceous gland that can’t be reached by blue light.” (FacingAcne.com)
Commitment…
It’s important to understand that any form of therapy requires commitment. In order to receive the best possible results from red light therapy, patients must stick to a set schedule, even if they are conducting the therapy by themselves in their own home.
Are You Sold?
There are many different devices used for red light therapy treatments. From wands, lamps, bulbs, beds, pads, and masks, there is surely a device for everyone in need. As discussed, the lights penetrate into the skin, boosting the cellular process that your body is in need of. However, you need the right device in order to begin your healing. Red light therapy uses wavelengths of light between about 620 nanometers and 700 nanometers. At home devices are typically between 630 to 660 nanometers.
Treatment sessions can be done at home or in a doctor’s office. Treatment sessions range depending on the devices being used. Handheld wands and masks are usually held to the skin from as little as 30 seconds to 15 minutes. Tanning style beds are typically used between 10 to 30 minutes. Bulbs that are inserted into lamps can be stood in front of, set up above your place of need, etc., and are typically used for the same amount of time as the bed.
LED Light Therapy Skin System For Beautiful Skin
Amazon for $99.99
The LED Light Therapy Skin System for Beautiful Skin uses multiple forms of light therapy to target skin conditions. As you’ll see, this device is at a slightly higher price point. The reason being, you get more for your buck. This skin care package includes three detachable light heads which can be changed according to what your skin requires. The device is hand held, cordless when in use and charges with the included cord. The device is aimed to give you a 30 minute treatment per charge and has a built in timer to let you know when your treatments, which are typically 10 minutes long, are finished. The LED Light Therapy Skin Care System has wonderful reviews for not only treating acne. It can also tighten the skin on your face and body and reduce fine lines and wrinkles.
Posted on August 5, 2016	In Acne, Products, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments
LEDs and Acne
What Is Acne?
Pretty simple question, right? We all know what acne is. It’s those bright red zits that always showed up at the most inopportune times when you were 16. It’s those pestering black heads all across your nose that you can never seem to squeeze out. It’s those patches of red spots showing up on your cheeks when you feel far too old for it. We know acne is, but why does our skin react the way it does?
Acne is an extremely common skin condition, according to HealthLine, a website dedicated to explaining medical conditions and the intricate details of them. In the Symptom Checker section of the website, HealthLine explains just what acne is.
“Acne occurs when the pores on your skin become blocked with oil, dead skin, or bacteria. Each pore on your skin is the opening to a follicle. The follicle is made up of a hair and a sebaceous (oil) gland. The oil gland releases sebum (oil), which travels up the hair, out of the pore, and onto your skin. The sebum keeps your skin lubricated and soft. If you develop acne, this may be because of one or more problems in this lubrication process. These possible causes include:
Too much oil or sebum is being produced by the follicle
Dead skin cells are accumulating in the pore
Bacteria has built up in the pore
An overabundance of oil, a pore clogged by dead skin cells, and bacteria all contribute to the development of pimples. A zit appears when the bacteria grows in the clogged pore and the oil is unable to escape.”
(HealthLine.com)
If your skin is repeatedly being affected by your pores being plugged, you may be struggling with acne. And no, you’re alone if you’re 40 years old and have acne. Acne can affect people of all ages. From young children just entering puberty, to residents in nursing homes. Life isn’t like the movies and sometimes you just get acne.
What Causes Acne?
Acne can be caused by a wide array of things. Hormonal changes, such as puberty or pregnancy can cause temporary acne. Certain medications can increase the risk as well. Birth control pills and corticosteroids are just a couple examples. Diet also plays a major role in developing acne. Unhealthy diets, diets high in refined sugars, and diets high carbohydrates such as bread and chips make the body more susceptible.
People assume that they’re just not washing their face enough, or they need a new face cream, but most of the time that’s not the case. Hey, maybe washing your face did the trick. But for most people, that’s just not the case. Most people need some medical treatment without the crazy costs. Light Therapy is known to treat acne, especially in the form of Blue Light.
What Is Blue Light Therapy?
Blue light therapy is form of Photodynamic Therapy or Light Therapy that uses UltraViolet LED lights to treat conditions related to the skin. Blue Light Therapy is proven to have treated some skin cancers. It also aids in minimizing superficial skin lesions, acne, wrinkles, and more. Blue Light Therapy has been working miracles such as warding off skin cancer, so I think it’s safe to say it can treat the acne-causing bacteria in your pores.
How It Works…
Blue light therapy treats acne by using blue LED light treatments on a set schedule for a solid amount of time. It works by means of a blue wavelength that has been proven to reduce p. acnes, which is a bacteria in your pores. The blue LED lights penetrate deep into the skin, stimulating the bacteria in your pores, ultimately making them work against each other and self destruct. The LEDS destroy the bacteria that causes inflammation during breakouts, reduce pore size, maintain proper oil production, and promote healthy cell growth.
How To Do It…
Blue light therapy treatments can be conducted at home or in an office. Regardless of the treatment plan you choose, a set schedule must be made and followed. You can’t expect changes over night. Anything worth having takes time! In-office sessions are typically more expensive than at-home sessions, but the devices are more powerful and they’re being conducted by an expert.
Refinery29, a lifestyle blog, has a piece about blue light LED therapy treating acne. When it comes to discussing in office treatment sessions the blog reads:
“When you receive a professional blue-light session, the first thing you’ll notice is that the “light” is actually multiple diodes attached to a flat-panel apparatus that looks similar to the metallic sun shades that were popular in the ’80s (think Magda in There’s Something About Mary). You’ll be fitted with a pair of protective goggles, the panels will be placed on top of your face, and then you’ll percolate for about 20 to 30 minutes.
“Professional treatments — Somerville uses the LightSlim device at her clinic — are more powerful and can cover a much larger surface area than handheld gadgets. One of the major differences between in-office and handhelds (besides the panels) is the power source. As Dr. Grossman notes, in-office machines have a stronger battery, which makes them able to work much faster than their at-home counterparts. Because of this, in-office treatments are ideal for those with moderate to severe acne — the type that covers large patches or the entirety of the face.
Somerville says another benefit of in-office visits is that, depending on the machine used, you can attack your acne on multiple fronts. “The LightStim combo light is phenomenal for treating acne, as it has five wavelengths,” she explains. Different wavelengths have different benefits: blue light, to kill bacteria; amber light, to build collagen and strengthen the skin; two variations of red light, to reduce inflammation and promote circulation; and infrared light, to accelerate healing. “Five lights in one treatment [makes it] stronger [and] more effective,” she says.” (refinery29.com)
At home light therapy devices may not be as powerful, but they come with a long list of benefits. They are far less expensive and typically a convenient and portable size. Sessions can be conducted in the comfort of your own home and you can create your own schedule.
In Conclusion…
It’s pretty easy to understand how we feel about blue light therapy. We freaking love it. A harm free, drug free, non-invasive, alternative for killing acne? Count us in!
Posted on August 4, 2016	In Acne, Light Therapy, Skin Treatments
Light Therapy & The Earth
What Is Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using different forms of light to help reduce and/or treat a wide array of conditions and disorders. Dermatologists, doctors, and psychiatrists have been using light therapy on their patients for some time. And now, thanks to the convenience of new light therapy products, you can also use the treatment at home. Light therapy has been safely and effectively changing the medical world one patient at a time.
How It Works…
Depending on the condition and the patient’s state of health, light therapy treatments can vary. For skin conditions and disorders, red, blue, and green light therapy devices are used. The treatments can be applied in many different forms including body wraps, handheld wands, tanning style beds, and masks. These methods are used for chronic pain, acne, wrinkles, cellulite, rosacea, psoriasis, and more. For mental conditions, such as seasonal affective disorder or depression, light therapy lamps and boxes are typically recommended. The high powered LED lights mimic outdoor sunlight to boost energy levels, maintain regular sleep cycles, treat depression, and more. There are also more extensive and intense products being used in doctors’ offices. For example, intravenous light therapy can be used post surgery to reduce inflammation and swelling. And light that is shown on the skin after certain ointments are applied to affected areas can treat many forms of skin cancer.
All of these discoveries and new insights into the world of medicine are groundbreaking and even life changing for some patients. The best part of it all, there’s still so much to learn! We have barely begun to crack the surface of what light therapy can do for us.
Saving The Earth…
Just as light therapy is changing the medical field, it’s also saving the earth. Saving lives and saving the earth! Does it get any better than that?
Light Therapy Options (LTO) is a Connecticut-based company that provides light therapy products to treat and heal a wide array of skin conditions and disorders. This company stands out from the rest due to it’s pride in being eco-friendly.
Light Therapy Options’ products are high powered LED lights that are meant to be applied to affected areas of the skin in specific, accurate wavelengths. The devices themselves aren’t necessarily what makes this company stand out from the pack. There are many similar products on the market that can effectively treat and heal light therapy relying conditions. However, most of the products on the market are made of non-recyclable plastics and have a limited lifespan, along with some other features that can harm our environment.
How It Works…
Light Therapy Options stands out from the crowd for many reasons. The company aims to be as environmentally friendly as possible which is why they created these features for their products…
High Power LED: These use less electricity and reduce treatment times. Other treatments are between 10 and 30 minutes. LTO treatments are between 30 seconds and 3 minutes.
No Replacement Parts: The devices are extremely durable and have been designed to hold up through home use, travel, spa use, and more. They have a 50,000 hour lifespan. To simplify, if you use a device for 3 minutes at a time, it will last for many lifetimes.
Non-Disposable: Because of the insanely long lifespan, these products are non-disposable. LTO claims that you will never need to buy a new device.
Recyclable: Even though these products are made to be non-disposable, accidents can happen or you could run out of uses for the products. In this scenario, the products are recyclable.
No Toxic Gases: Many compact fluorescent bulbs and other light products contain toxic gases. LTO products do not.
Not Battery Operated: LTO devices are powered through a wall socket. No need to throw out batteries!
Combined Product Uses: LTO makes some devices that work for many different conditions so you to only have to purchase one device, instead of many different ones for all of your conditions.
Why Is This So Important?
It seems that many of us get so caught up in what the earth can do for us, that we forget what we can do for the earth. We only get one earth and we need to treat it like that is the case. Every step we take towards ensuring an environmentally friendly world is a step in the right direction. While Light Therapy Options is the only company currently making eco-friendly light therapy products at such a high level, it’s important to see what we can strive for. If one company can do this, why can’t they all? If you are considering buying a light therapy product, make sure you check and see if Light Therapy Options has what you are looking for!
Are You Sold?
Light Therapy Options has more than 10 products on their site. We have chosen to share a couple of those devices with you to explain in further detail just how wonderful we think this company is!
The Peak 415 Blue Light HP LED Powerhead
$259.00 (on sale!)
LightTherapyOptions.com
The Peak 415 is one of the most popular products on the website. It is available in either 120 volt or 220 volt and includes standard safety goggles to protect your eyes. Different goggle options are available to purchase as well for just a few dollars. The Peak 415 is made with a high power LED power head that is used with your own fixture (stand). It contains 48 HP LED chips and has a peak wavelength of 415 nanometers. It can be used for both personal and professional use and has been rated highly effective for treating acne. The website claims that the 415 nanometer wavelength has been identified as the most effective wavelength against acne causing bacteria without entering the UV range. It is the strongest acne light in their product line!
The Genesis DH Red Light / Near Infrared HP LED Powerhead
$299.00 (on sale!)
LightTherapyOptions.com
The Genesis DH is made with a high power LED head with 120 volt power and includes standard safety goggles. It has a standard sized bulb which means that you can use it with any open faced fixture you choose. The Genesis DH is specifically designed for pain relief, wound care, anti-aging, and much more. The device combines red and near infrared light therapy into one small unit which provides you with the benefits of both light therapy forms for every one of your treatment sessions. The website states that it is most commonly used as a handheld device for pain relief but it has also been proven effective while being used hands free for collagen production, anti-aging, and more. Why not give the 90 day trial period and lifetime warranty a try?
Save
Save
Posted on June 25, 2016	In Acne, Light Therapy, Pain, Products, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Uncategorized
Older
Features
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Recent Posts
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
How Light Therapy Works!
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Understanding and Appreciating Vitamin D
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light Therapy is Boosting Libido in Men!
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
November 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
Categories
Acne
Blue Light Therapy
Celebrities
Children
Chronic Pain
Color Light Therapy
Daylight Savings Time
Depression
Devices
Experiments
Hair Loss
Infrared Red Light Therapy
Insomnia
Jetlag
Libido
Light Therapy
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Products
Psoriasis
Red Light Therapy
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Skin Rejuvenation
Skin Treatments
Small Space
Studies
Sunlight
Top 10's
Travel
Uncategorized
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
Wound Healing
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© 2019 Light Therapy Review — foundly by Foundly