Aromatherapy for Pain Relief - Living With Arthritis
Arthritis.org
Living With Arthritis Blog
Menu
Skip to content
Donate
Arthritis Blog Home » Living With Arthritis Blog Home » Aromatherapy for Pain Relief
Tuesday, June 28 | Arthritis Today Magazine
Aromatherapy for Pain Relief
Research shows that aromatherapy can have a powerful impact on your well-being, including your level of pain. “Certain scents activate smell receptors in the nose, which triggers a reaction in the nervous system,” says Julie Chen, MD, an integrative medicine physician in San Jose, Calif. This, in turn, stimulates the part of your brain that controls emotion, triggering the release of hormones such as feel-good dopamine.
In fact, a 2005 study from the Catholic University of Korea in Seoul showed that people with arthritis who sniffed a fragrant blend that included lavender, eucalyptus and rosemary experienced less pain and better moods than those who didn’t. Although the scent that’s most effective depends on your personal response, says Dr. Chen, here are a few that science says may help.
Bergamot and Lavender for Pain
This blend reduced pain levels in people with chronic pain who inhaled it regularly over four months, a 2014 study in BioMed Research International found.
Try it: Blend 2 to 12 drops of essential oil with a tablespoon of milk or vegetable oil (undiluted essential oil can irritate skin), and add it to a bath. Or mix 15 to 20 drops with 1 ounce of jojoba or almond oil to dab on your wrists or massage into skin.
Ginger for Pain
A 2008 study in Complementary Therapies in Medicine showed that people with moderate to severe knee pain reported less pain and stiffness after they were massaged with a ginger-and-orange oil than an unscented one.
Try it. Mix 10 to 15 drops of ginger essential oil with 1 ounce of jojoba or almond oil; massage directly on the skin.
Lavender for Better Sleep
People slept more soundly, spent more time in restorative, slow-wave sleep and woke up more refreshed when they smelled lavender before bedtime, according to a study in Chronobiology International.
Try it: Add a few drops of lavender essential oil to a diffuser, or spritz your sheets with an aromatherapy spray. Make your own by mixing 3 ounces of water with 30 to 45 drops of essential oil to a spray bottle; shake before each use.
Citrus for Mood
Lemon scent can lift your mood, according to a 2008 study in Psychoneuroendocrinology, and a 2012 study in the Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine showed that people who received sweet orange aromatherapy had less anxiety and stress during a high-pressure cognitive test than those who didn’t.
Try it: Place a few drops on a tissue or cotton ball and stash it in a zip-top bag to smell throughout the day.
Related Resources:
Acupuncture for Arthritis
For more content like this, subscribe to Arthritis Today Magazine
Tags: aromatherapy arthritis, aromatherapy arthritis pain, aromatherapy for arthritis pain, aromatherapy for pain, citrus oil arthritis, lavender oil arthritis
Post navigation
← Two Minutes of Activity an Hour To Live Longer	What You Can Do When Handshaking With Arthritis Hurts →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
RSS
Post Categories
Activities
Apparel
Community
Events
Exercise
Giving
Natural Therapies
Nutrition
Pain Management
Recipes
Risks
Support
Surgery
Symptom Management
Tools & Resources
Treatment
Uncategorized
Blog Listing
Stories of Yes
News
Advocacy
Living with Arthritis
Juvenile Arthritis
Gout
Osteoarthritis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
arthritis diet arthritis exercise arthritis and the holidays pain management anti-inflammatory diet arthritis life hacks arthritis-friendly exercise managing stress arthritis exercises arthritis diet foods arthritis nutrition arthritis pain management massage for arthritis easy gardening arthritis-friendly diet arthritis-friendly shopping food shopping for arthritis supplements for arthritis arthritis supplements exercise for arthritis natural arthritis pain relief arthritis pain shopping tips arthritis workouts traveling with arthritis arthritis stress arthritis sleep cleaning tips emotions and pain arthritis tips travel tips cleaning with arthritis natural arthritis therapies arthritis symptom management arthritis-friendly cooking rheumatoid arthritis arthritis weight loss symptom management arthritis support diet for arthritis supplements and herbs for arthritis arthritis exercise motivation fibromyalgia gardening arthritis massage
Enewsletter Sign Up
Thank you for signing up to receive our newsletter!
Contact Us
Posting Policy
Trademarks
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 • All Rights Reserved.