What Can Help Fade Away Scars on Babies? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Scars
What Can Help Fade Away Scars on Babies?
Heather Topham Wood
About the Author:
Heather Topham Wood
Heather Topham Wood is a seasoned writer whose work has appeared in numerous publications, including USA Today, Gadgetell, Feel Rich and Step in Style. Heather is a published novelist with six Amazon bestsellers and a contract through Crescent Moon Press. She holds a bachelor's degree in English from TCNJ.
View Full Profile
If your baby suffers a bad fall or undergoes surgery, you may have concerns regarding the permanence of a scar. Speak to your pediatrician about safe treatments you can use on your baby. Treatments of scars are typically not considered until the scar has fully matured, which may take as long as 12 to 18 months. If you begin a treatment too soon, it may actually worsen the scar.
Talk to your doctor about scar treatments for your baby. (Image: Jani Bryson/iStock/Getty Images)
Expert Insight
According to a review in a 2006 edition of the "Canadian Family Physician," although a few anecdotal reports indicate that vitamin E may be effective for treating scars in children, further research is needed to confirm this assertion. Also, there were additional reports noting that side effects could occur with the application of vitamin E, including worsening the appearance of the scar.
Considerations
There are over-the-counter products available to help fade scars. Onion extract is an ingredient in some products that can help smooth out the scars and reduce the redness. According to a 2007 study published in the "Journal of Wound Care," researchers found that onion extract was helpful at fading the color of keloid and hypertrophic scars, but not as effective at reducing itching and diminishing the height of scars. However, using these over-the-counter products is usually not recommended until the child is 2 years old.
Prevention
To help prevent worsening the appearance of scars in babies, apply sunscreen to the site of the scar. Use formulations that are safe for babies and that have a SPF of at least 35. Clean and pat the area dry before applying a thin layer of sunscreen. Reapply the sunscreen every 30 minutes of sun exposure. According to the University of Michigan Department of Surgery, the skin surrounding the scar can react differently to sun exposure and darken the scar.
Potential
You can also discuss the potential for scar removal, once your child gets older, with your pediatrician. If your doctor feels the scar may be bothersome to the child, he can discuss surgical removal options with you. Laser therapy can destroy scar tissue and fade the appearance of the mark. However, the area must be completely healed before you can consider this option which may take a year or longer. Certain scars may not benefit from the use of laser therapy. According to a 2003 study published in "Burns," researchers found that pulsed dye lasers did not work effectively to reduce the redness, height and texture of scars from burns in children. The laser was designed for the effective removal of port wine stains in children, according to the study. Surgical excision is typically not considered until the age of 4, according to the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
KidsHealth: The Story on Scars
Canadian Family Physician: Vitamin E for Treating Children's Scars
Parenting: On Call-Fading a Scar
Burns: Pulsed Dye Laser Treatment of Burn Scars. Alleviation or Irritation?
University of Michigan Department of Surgery: Scar Care Instructions
Alford Facial Plastic Surgery: Beneath the Surface of Scars and Wound Healing
Children's Hospital of Wisconsin: Infantile Hemangiomas
Journal of Wound Care: The Effects of Onion Extract on Hypertrophic and Keloid Scars
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Calculate Infant BMI
2
Discolored Baby Teeth
3
How to Lighten Up Scars
4
How to Help Infant Spit out Mucus From Chest Congestion
5
How to Remove Milia Under Eyes
6
How to Treat a Minor Burn on a Baby
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.