First-degree burn: Definition, symptoms, and treatments
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What is a first-degree burn?
Last reviewed	 Wed 27 June 2018	 Last reviewed	Wed 27 Jun 2018
By Danielle Dresden
Reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
Table of contents
Symptoms
Definition
Treatment
When to see a doctor
Recovery time
Preventing scarring
Takeaway
First-degree burns are a common and painful household occurrence, especially for children and older adults. They often happen when someone touches something hot, such as a stove, curling iron, or hair straightener.
Staying out in the sun too long without sunscreen or other forms of protection is also a frequent cause of first-degree burns. Researchers report, however, that 80 percent of burns affecting young children are due to accidental scalding with hot liquids or objects.
What are the symptoms?
Generally, first-degree burns do not break the skin.
Most first-degree burns are not very big, and usually present as a red, dry area of skin.
Typically, first-degree burns do not break the skin or cause blisters to form.
The best-known and most common symptom of a first-degree burn is red skin.
Other symptoms include:
pain
soreness in the burned area, which lasts for 2 –3 days
skin that may be warm to the touch
swelling
dry skin
peeling
itching
a temporary change in skin color caused by peeling
Definition of a first-degree burn
Doctors define first-degree burns as superficial burns because they only affect the top layer of the skin.
First-degree burns vary from more severe burns in that they do not penetrate deep into the skin and other tissues.
Other burns have the following characteristics:
Second degree burns: These burns go through the epidermis and reach the top of the second layer of the skin, which is known as the dermis. These burns are more likely to blister and are generally more painful and swollen.
Third-degree burns: This type of burn penetrates the first and second layers of skin to the third and lowest level of the skin, known as the hypodermis. With these deeper burns, the affected area may appear white, like the surface of a burned piece of charcoal.
Fourth-degree burns: This type of burn goes through all three layers of the skin and damages the muscle, bone, nerves, and fat that is lying underneath. There is no pain with fourth-degree burns because damage to the nerves prevents any feeling.
Treating first-degree burns at home
Home treatment is the most common way to treat a first-degree burn.
Even though most first-degree burns do not require treatment by a medical professional, it is still crucial to treat these injuries carefully.
Make sure to keep the wounds clean, protected, and free of infection.
Home remedies
Protect the burned area with a non-stick bandage.
Steps for treating a first-degree burn at home:
Remove clothing, watches, rings, and other jewelry near or covering the surrounding burned area.
Plunge the burned area into cool (not ice cold) water right away, and keep it there for about 10 minutes. If it is not possible to submerge the burned area in water, then apply cold, wet compresses to the area until the pain subsides. Never apply ice directly to a burn.
Gently clean the burned area with mild soap and water.
The American Academy of Dermatology recommend applying petroleum jelly to the burn every 8 to 12 hours. Do not use butter or toothpaste on a first-degree burn, because this can increase the risk of infection and prevent healing.
Keep the burned area covered with a non-stick bandage. Change the dressing three times a week, as long as there is no infection. If the burn seems infected, change the bandage every day.
Do not pop any blisters that may develop as this can increase the risk of infection and scarring.
Take over-the-counter (OTC) pain medications, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to reduce pain, swelling, and inflammation.
Drink plenty of fluids.
If the burn does not show signs of healing within 48 hours, or if it seems to be getting worse, seek prompt medical care.
What home remedies can treat my burn?
As a first-degree burn affects only the top layer of the skin, it is often possible to treat one at home. Learn more about home remedies for burns and scalds here.
Read now
When to see a doctor
Most of the time, first-degree burns do not require medical attention.
However, seek medical care immediately if:
The burned area is larger than the palm of the person's hand.
The person with the burn is a young child or an older adult.
The burn completely encircles an ankle, wrist, finger, toe, or another body part.
The burn is accompanied by a fever or pain and redness that do not respond to OTC pain relievers.
The burn looks like it may affect more than the top layer of the skin.
The burn looks infected, with redness extending beyond the burned area.
Any time the skin is damaged, even if the injury is a small scratch or a mild sunburn, the body cannot defend itself against infection as well as it usually can.
Always pay close attention to first-degree burns and watch for signs of possible infection, such as:
increased swelling and tenderness
a red streak leaving the burned area
the burn begins to drain yellow or green liquid
a change in the color and general appearance of the burned area
How long does it take to recover?
The National Institute of General Medical Sciences say it takes about a week for a first-degree burn to heal. Other experts say it usually takes 5 to 10 days for an individual to recover from a first-degree burn.
Preventing scarring
Scarring is not usually a problem with a first-degree burn.
Scars only form when the lower layer of the skin is damaged, and first-degree burns do not usually penetrate that far into the skin. They also tend to heal in less than 10 days, and, according to the Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors, burns which heal that rapidly do not usually leave scars.
However, always take extra care with sensitive, damaged skin. If skin in the affected area begins to peel, leave it to shed naturally, as pulling it off might be painful and cause scarring.
Takeaway
Itching skin can indicate the burned area is healing.
Most first-degree burns heal entirely within 10 days.
Some people may find that the healed skin may be darker or lighter in color than the skin in other areas.
Sometimes, the burned area can itch during recovery. Although the itching might be uncomfortable, it is a regular part of healing. Skin moisturizers and OTC antihistamines, such as Benadryl, can help reduce the discomfort.
Minimizing exposure to direct sunlight and following standard sun safety practices can help prevent further damage to the skin.
Related coverage
Scars: Are they preventable? While many scars do not hamper everyday life, some cause life-long problems. Find out how scars form and why it is so difficult to prevent them. Read now
How to deal with child burns and scalds Children can be prone to injuries, as they may not yet have learned not to touch hot objects. In this article, find out about different types of burns and how to treat children who experience them, along with measures that can be taken to help prevent burns occurring in children. Read now
How long does a sunburn take to heal? Sunburn happens when the skin absorbs too much sunlight. This can be harmful. Mild sunburn can be treated at home, for example by applying moisturizer. Severe sunburn may need medical treatment. Find out what increases the risk, when to see a doctor, and how to prevent sunburn. Read now
Chemical burns: Symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment Chemical burns can happen to anyone and anywhere, and occur when a person is affected by chemicals or their fumes. They frequently occur due to car batteries, paint thinner, and bleach. This article looks at the common causes as well as who is at risk and when a person should seek medical care for a chemical burn. Read now
How to get rid of burn scars Treating burn scars depends on the severity of the burn and how recently it occurred. The article examines the various types of burn scars, how to remove or reduce existing burn scars, and how to prevent new scars developing. Also, learn about how to treat a burn in the first instance and possible complications. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 27 June 2018.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Burns. (2015, September). Retrieved from http://kidshealth.org/en/parents/burns.html
Burns. (2018, January 26). Retrieved from https://www.nigms.nih.gov/Education/Pages/Factsheet_Burns.aspx
Canon, M. (2015, April 20). How to manage first degree burns. Retrieved from https://www.firstaidregina.ca/how-to-manage-first-degree-burns/
Classification of burns. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=90&ContentID=P09575
Hall, S., Kowalske, K., & Holavanahalli. (2011). Wound care and scar management after burn injury. Retrieved from https://www.phoenix-society.org/resources/entry/burn-wound-care
How to treat a first-degree, minor burn. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/skin-hair-nails/injured-skin/burns
Initial first aid treatment for burns. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://ameriburn.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/burnfirstaid.pdf
Lloyd, E. C. O., Rodgers, B. C., Michener, M. M., & Williams, M. S. (2012, January 1). Outpatient burns: Prevention and care. American Family Physician, 85, (1), 25–32. Retrieved from https://www.aafp.org/afp/2012/0101/p25.html
Pencle, F. J. & Waseem, M. (2017, June 27). First degree burn. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK442021/
Sepsis and burns. (2017, December 13). Retrieved from https://www.sepsis.org/sepsis-and/sepsis-and-burns/
Wolff, S. E., (2016, October). Burns. Retrieved from https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/injuries-poisoning/burns/burns
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Dresden, Danielle. "What is a first-degree burn?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 27 Jun. 2018. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322281.php>
APA
Dresden, D. (2018, June 27). "What is a first-degree burn?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322281.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Could this brain stimulation technique reverse memory decline?
New research examines the effect of a noninvasive brain stimulation technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation on age-related memory decline.
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
Popular in: Dermatology
Hair growth: 6 home remedies
What causes tongue bumps?
Can you remove a skin tag yourself?
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322281.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);