My Blog - South Miami, FL Foot Doctor
Home
Our Doctors
Jaime Carbonell, DPM
Robert Garnet, DPM
Pollyanna Reeves, DPM
Patrick Honeycutt DPM
Locations
New Patients
Services
Contact Us
Appointment Request
Patient Education
Podiatry Links
Educational Videos
Toggle navigation Menu
(305) 251-2552
(305) 670-8411 (786) 446-0440
Garnet & Carbonell, DPM, LLC
18430 South Dixie Highway Miami, FL 33157(305) 251-2552
Make An Appointment
My Blog
Posts for: December, 2018
Treating a Sprained Ankle
By Miami Foot Care
December 18, 2018
Category: Foot Care
Tags: Sprained Ankle
An ankle sprain occurs when the foot rolls or twists to the point where a ligament inside stretches beyond its normal capacity. Ankle sprains are extremely common, with an estimated 25,000 sprains happening in the United States every day. Athletes and people who work outdoors or on uneven surfaces are at a higher risk for spraining their ankle. Regular wear of high-heeled shoes is also a risk factor.
Sprained ankles are diagnosed by degree; that is, the severity of the sprain and the symptoms it produces. Grade 1 sprains are the mildest, with minimal swelling and tenderness due to a slight ligament tear. Usually, Grade 1 sprains still allow for weight to be put on the ankle. Grade 2 sprains have a more significant injury to the ligament and, while walking may still be possible, it is painful. Grade 3 sprains are diagnosed when the affected ligament has sustained a complete tear and the ankle cannot bear weight. Grade 3 sprains typically display obvious bruising and swelling around the ankle.
The grade of an ankle sprain will determine the treatment. The tried-and-true RICE method - rest, ice, compression, and elevation - is usually sufficient for Grade 1 sprains. Refraining from walking, keeping the ankle elevated for the first two days, stabilizing the ankle with a compression dressing, and applying ice to reduce swelling helps the sprain resolve within 2 to 4 weeks. Grade 2 sprains also respond well to RICE treatment, although healing typically takes longer and a firmer immobilization device, like a splint, is typically recommended. Grade 3 sprains often require similar treatment used for ankle fractures; a cast or brace may be needed and surgery may be considered for some patients.
To ensure proper healing, it is important to follow the recommendations of your podiatrist. Attempting to return to normal activity too soon could result in a repeat injury or permanent ankle instability.
0 Comment(s) Permalink
What is Sesamoiditis?
By Miami Foot Care
December 07, 2018
Category: Foot Care
Tags: Sesamoid Sesamoiditis
What is Sesamoiditis?
Sesamoids are small bones that are only connected to tendons or surrounded in muscle. This only appears in a few places in the body, one of which is the foot. Two very tiny sesamoids are found in the underside of the foot near the big toe. One is on the outer side of the foot and the other bone is close to the middle of the foot. This structure provides a smooth surface for the tendons to slide over, which helps the tendons move muscles. They help with weight bearing and also help to elevate the bones of the big toe. So now that you know what sesamoids are, you might be wondering what sesamoiditis is and what its symptoms are.
Sesamoiditis
Just like any other bone, sesamoids can unfortunately fracture. The tendons surrounding the sesamoids may also become irritated or inflamed and this is what sesamoiditis is. Sesamoiditis is also a form of tendonitis and is a common condition among ballerinas, runners, and baseball catchers due to the pressure that is constantly placed on their feet.
Symptoms of Sesamoiditis
Symptoms of Sesamoiditis may include:
Pain under the big toe or ball of the foot
Swelling and/or bruising
Difficulty in bending and straightening the big toe
Treating Sesamoiditis
Treatments include:
Resting and stopping any activity that could be causing pain and inflammation
Anti-inflammatories, such as ibuprofen and aspirin only after consulting your physician
Icing the sole of the foot
Wearing soft-soled and low-heeled shoes
Cushioning inserts in the shoes
If symptoms persist after treatments, you may need to wear a removable brace for 4-6 weeks to help the bones heal. Call your podiatrist today to ask any questions about sesamoiditis and get on your way to pain-free feet once again!
0 Comment(s) Permalink
January (2) November (2)
Subscribe to our RSS Feed
Archive:
2019
April (1)
Ways a Podiatrist Can Help You
March (2)
Treatment for Minor Foot Injuries
Is Plantar Fasciitis Causing Your Heel Pain?
February (2)
What Are Corns?
What is Achilles Tendonitis?
January (2)
Dealing With Athlete's Foot
What is a Crush Injury?
2018
December (2)
Treating a Sprained Ankle
What is Sesamoiditis?
November (2)
How To Prevent Ingrown Toenails
Treating Toenail Fungus
October (2)
What Causes Warts?
Welcome Blog
Tags
Warts (1)
Welcome (1)
Toenail Fungus (1)
Ingrown Toenail (1)
Sesamoid (1)
Sesamoiditis (1)
Sprained Ankle (1)
Crush (1)
Crush Injury (1)
Athlete's Foot (1)
Achilles Tendonitis (1)
Corns (1)
Heel Pain (1)
Plantar Fasciitis (2)
Foot Injuries (1)
Ingrown toenails (1)
Diabetic foot care (1)
Categories:
Foot Conditions (5)
Welcome Blog (1)
Foot Care (7)
Contact Us
Garnet & Carbonell, DPM, LLC
(305) 251-2552
18430 South Dixie Highway Miami, FL 33157
6705 SW 57th Ave, Suite 312, Coral Gables, FL 3314
925 NE 30th Ter., Ste 106, Homestead, FL 33033
blog
Copyright © MH Sub I, LLC dba Officite
Disclaimer
Patient Privacy
Site Map