Production of ACE-inhibitory peptides in milk fermented with selected lactic acid bacteria | Journal of BioScience and Biotechnology
Skip to main content Skip to main navigation menu Skip to site footer
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Submissions
Editorial Team
Privacy Statement
Contact
Search
Search
Register
Login
Home /
Archives /
Vol 7 No 1 (2018) /
Microbiology, Virology and Immunology
Production of ACE-inhibitory peptides in milk fermented with selected lactic acid bacteria
Teodora Panayotova LB Bulgaricum PLC, Sofia
Kalinka Pashova-Baltova LB Bulgaricum PLC, Sofia
Zhechko Dimitrov LB Bulgaricum PLC, Sofia
Abstract
The ability of lactic acid bacteria to release bioactive peptides is strain specific and is dependent of the dairy processing conditions. In the present study we developed a starter for fermented milk with increased proteolytic and peptidolytic activity. The structure and concentration of bioactive peptides are strongly dependent on the strain-specific proteolytic complex. It could be expected that such peptides would be released during the process of manufacture of fermented milk. Among the possible bioactivities of released peptides is the inhibitory effect against angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), whose increased activity could lead to elevation of the blood pressure. Evaluation of several peptides with proven ACE-inhibitory activity was performed by LC-MS-MS. The structure of these peptides was determined by comparison with peptide library. The quantification of IPP, VPP, and ALPM was performed by SRM MS3 method using certified standards. The ACE inhibitory effect was expressed as the peptide concentration needed to inhibit 50% of ACE activity (IC50). In this study we developed a starter containing L. helveticus, L. bulgaricus, and S. thermophilus strains. The strains L. helveticus A1 and L. bulgaricus J24 possess strong proteolytic complex which lead to increased content of ACE inhibitory peptides. After a pilot production of fermented yoghurt with the developed starter the ACE inhibitory effect was confirmed using enzyme assay. The inclusion of the highly proteolytic strain L. helveticus A1 in the starter culture leads to increased production of bioactive peptides in the fermented milk.
Full text (PDF)
Published
2018-11-06
Issue
Vol 7 No 1 (2018)
Section
Microbiology, Virology and Immunology
Copyright (c) 2018 Teodora Panayotova
Authors of articles published in Journal of BioScience and Biotechnology retain the copyright of their articles. The journal/publisher is not responsible for subsequent uses of the work. It is the author's responsibility to bring an infringement action if so desired by the author.
Authors retain the following rights:
copyright, and other proprietary rights relating to the article, such as patent rights;
the right to use the substance of the article in future own works, including lectures and books;
the right to reproduce the article for own purposes, provided the copies are not offered for sale;
the right to self-archive the article.
Make a Submission
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
JBB, 2016, Faculty of Biology (University of Plovdiv)