Smelly Feet | Antifungal Blog
Home | About Us | Contact Us
Antifungal Blog
Back to Store
Follow Me
Most Popular Posts
Sporanox and Lamisil Anti-Fungal Pills are a short-term fix
How to control Cracked, Yellow, Thick Nails and Itchy, Peeling Skin
Anti-Fungal Toenail Treatment Topical Lacquers: Formula 3 vs. PediMD
Anti fungal Foot Bath: Vinegar vs. Listerine
4 Tips to Treat Peeling, Cracking, Itchy, Smelly Skin on Heels & Feet
Fungal Infections on the Skin: Treatment and Prevention
Toenail Fungus Diagnosis, Causes, Symptoms and Treatment Cost
Onychomycosis: Causes, Symptoms, and Common Treatments of Nail Fungus
Ultimate Anti-Fungal Approach: Combining Laser and Lacquer
Tea Tree Oil, Jojoba Oil and Menthol fight Toe Nail and Foot Fungus
Subscribe by Email
Your email:
Welcome to Dr. Bob's Anti-Fungal Blog
Current Articles | RSS Feed
4 Tips to Treat Peeling, Cracking, Itchy, Smelly Skin on Heels & Feet
Posted by HubSpot User Default on Wed, Jul 20, 2011 @ 03:57 PM
Email Article
Tweet
delicious
Are you experiencing any of the following symptoms?
Cracked Skin on Heels
Peeling Skin In-Between Toes
Itchy Skin on Feet
Redness on Skin
Skin Irritation (especially at night)
Smelly Feet
Dr. Bob Recommends the following Footcare Tips:
The skin on heels and feet is suseptable to a number of different conditions that can be avoided by following a few simple steps. The most common conditios people report are peeling, cracking, irritation, redness and even foul odor. It is normal for anyone to experience at least one of these conditions in their lifetime; the good news is that these symptoms are easily treated and their recurrence can be easily prevented.
Avoid Excess Dryness - Applying harsh chemicals or soaking your feet in acidic substances can dry out the skin and leave the foot susceptible to cracking and peeling. Simply washing your feet twice a day and thoroughly drying will help control foot odor and prevent further peeling and cracking of the heel.
Take a GOOD, HARD look at your feet - Inspect your entire foot. Look closely in between toes and check for any signs of fungus. Foot Fungus and Athlete's Foot are a major cause of itchy peeling skin in-between toes. Fungus can spread onto the heels and toenails, thus it is crucial to spot the fungus before it gets out of hand and continues to damage the skin.
Change your socks and shoes - NEVER reuse socks before washing them! Also, try not to wear shoes without socks. If your feet sweat it is imperative that you take steps to avoid sweat buildup in your shoes and socks. Apply gold bond foot powder directly onto the foot and sprinkle some into your shoes before dressing.
Treat Any Fungal Infections, Cuts, Abrasions and Warts on the heels and feet - Before you can achieve happy healthy feet you must first treat any underlying conditions that can cause future problems. Applying an Anti-Fungal moisturizing Foot Cream such as PediMD will eliminate fungus and prevent issues such as cracking heels, peeling skin and smelly feet.
Click Here to see the advantages of using a moisturizing foot cream to treat skin on heels and feet
4 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Tags: Smelly Feet, Cracking, Peeling, Itchy, Cracked Heels, Footcare Tips, PediMD Moisturizing Foot Cream
Do you have Smelly Feet? It could be Athlete's Foot or Foot Fungus.
Posted by Sam Shoosh on Sun, Feb 20, 2011 @ 12:08 AM
Email Article
Tweet
delicious
The #1 cause of Smelly Feet is Foot Fungus. About 45 million American's get Foot Fungus aka Athlete's Foot every year. The Fungus is not harmful but it can cuase cracked, irritated, peeling skin and embarassing smelly feet! Foot Fungus can spread to the toenails and toenail fungus can affect the skin around the toes. It is critical to treat the Athlete's Foot or Toenail Fungus to cure Smelly Feet and keep skin healthy.
Causes of Smelly Feet:
Foot Fungus
Reusing Socks
Sweat in shoes
Toenail Fungus
How to Prevent Smelly Feet:
Foot Powder
Coolmax - Moisture Absorbing Socks
Natural Moisturizing Foot Cream
5 Easy Footcare Tips
Other Symptoms of Foot Fungus:
Itchy red skin in-between toes
Peeling skin on foot
Constant need to rub toes around
Foot Fungus can damage the skin and leave it suseptable to getting infected. Most treatments will eliminate the fungus; yet, they neglect to treat the skin. It is essential to use an anti-fungal cream with natural oils and herbal extracts which will keep the skin feeling soft and healthy. PediMD Moisturizing Foot Cream combines natural oils with FDA approved fungus fighting medicine to treat Fungus and keep feeling happy and healthy!
0 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Tags: itchy skin, peeling skin, foot fungus, Athlete's Foot, Smelly Feet, Causes, Symptoms Fungus, Toenail Fungus, Coolmax Socks
Foot Fungus and Athletes Foot: Causes, Symptoms & Effective Treatment
Posted by Sam Shoosh on Wed, Feb 16, 2011 @ 11:45 AM
Email Article
Tweet
delicious
Foot Fungus and Athlete's Foot - Effective Treatments
Foot fungus is one of the most common foot and ankle problems. It occurs due to multiple reasons and can be embarrassing and often painful.
Causes of Foot Fungus:
Excess sweating
Poor hygiene
Fungus nail
Family History
Video: How to Prevent Fungus and Maintian Healthy Feet
Symptoms of Foot Fungus:
Peeling skin
Itching skin
Small red blisters
Red skin
Cracking skin
Learn How to Control Fungus
The problem with most fungus skin medications is that they work only when applied. As soon as the medication is stopped, the fungus returns to the skin. Furthermore, most of the medications dry the skin and can cause crackina, peeling and pain. Finally, they are very strong and can only be used for short periods of time.
Cure for Foot Fungus: The PediMD Advantage
PediMD Antifungal Skin Moisturizer is a new approach for treating skin fungus while rehabilitateing the skin as well. It is a daily use moisturizing cream that contains strong anti-fungal medication along with holistic oils and extracts to treat foot fungus. What makes it better than anything on the market is that it can be used daily to prevent fungus from returning and also to keep the skin soft and supple without any drying, cracking, peeling.
For best results, combine PediMD anti-fungal moisturizing cream with our Anti-Fungal Toenail Treatment System. Use daily as a treatment system and then weekly as a protection against nail fungus and foot fungus return.
0 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Tags: pediMD, athlete's foot, itchy skin, peeling skin, Symptoms, causes, foot fungus, foot care, smelly feet
All Posts
Error sending email
Email sent successfully
Email article
Email To :
Email From :
Message :
[Click to edit WebVoter title]
RSS Feed
Submit a link
URL (optional)
Title * Get title from URL
Description (optional)
Tags (comma-separated, optional)
Submit Link
Antifungal Blog | Back to Store
© 2011 PediMD, 2010. All Rights Reserved.