Athlete's Foot (for Teens) - Vidant Medical Center
[Skip to Content]
For Residents & Fellows
For Health Professionals
For Employees
About Vidant
Send Us A Message
Events
News Room
Volunteer
Donate
Home
Find it Fast
Pay Your Bill
Maynard Children's Hospital
Referral and Contact Information
For patients and families
Our physicians
Services
Programs
Units
Testimonials
Support Maynard Children's Hospital
Accreditations and memberships
Career opportunities
For Parents
Home
Parents Home
Allergy Center
A to Z Dictionary
Asthma Center
Cerebral Palsy Center
Cancer Center
Flu Center
Diabetes Center
Heart Health
Food Allergy Center
Preventing Premature Birth
Homework Help Center
Pregnancy & Newborn Center
Play & Learn Center
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Summer Safety
Sports Medicine Center
First Aid & Safety
Doctors & Hospitals
Growth & Development
Diseases & Conditions
Emotions & Behavior
General Health
Infections
Q&A
School & Family Life
Recipes
Videos
Para Padres
For Kids
Home
Kids Home
Asthma Center
Cancer Center
Diabetes Center
Heart Center
Homework Center
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Relax & Unwind Center
Stay Safe Center
Feelings
Health Problems
Health Problems of Grown-Ups
How the Body Works
Illnesses & Injuries
Kids' Medical Dictionary
Movies & More
Getting Help
Personal Questions
Puberty & Growing Up
Q&A
Recipes & Cooking
Staying Healthy
Videos
My Body
Staying Safe
Para Niños
For Teens
Home
Teens Home
Asthma Center
Be Your Best Self Center
Cancer Center
Concussion Center
Diabetes Center
Flu Center
Homework Help Center
Managing Your Medical Care
Managing Your Weight
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Stress & Coping Center
Sports Center
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Alcohol
Infections
Personal Stories
Expert Answers (Q&A)
Recipes
School & Work
Sexual Health
Safety & First Aid
Videos
Your Body
Your Mind
Para Adolescentes
Teens
Search KidsHealth library
Athlete's Foot
Athlete's foot is a type of fungal skin infection. Fungi (the plural of fungus) are microscopic plant-like organisms that thrive in damp, warm environments. They're usually not dangerous, but sometimes can cause disease. When they infect the skin, they cause mild but annoying rashes. Fungal skin infections are also known as tinea infections.
When fungus grows on the feet, it is called athlete's foot (or tinea pedis). It got this name because it affects people whose feet tend to be damp and sweaty, which is often the case with athletes. But anyone can get this infection.
Other fungal skin infections include jock itch and ringworm (despite its name, ringworm is not a worm).
These infections are caused by several types of mold-like fungi called dermatophytes (pronounced: der-MAH-tuh-fites) that live on the dead tissues of your skin, hair, and nails.
What Are the Signs & Symptoms of Athlete's Foot?
Athlete's foot usually causes redness, flakiness, peeling, or cracking of the skin on the feet. It may itch, sting, or burn, or simply feel uncomfortable.
It's usually on the soles of the feet, the areas between the toes, and sometimes the toenails. When the toenails are involved they become thick, white or yellowish, and brittle.
What Causes Athlete's Foot?
Athlete's foot is caused by fungi that normally live on the skin, hair, and nails called dermatophytes. When the environment they live in gets warm and moist, they grow out of control and start to cause symptoms.
Is Athlete's Foot Contagious?
Yes. It spreads in damp environments, such as public showers or pool areas. It can also spread to other areas of the body if a person touches the affected foot and then touches other body parts, such as the hands.
How Do People Get Athlete's Foot?
Waking around barefoot in warm wet places like locker rooms or public pools can expose the feet to fungi that thrive in those environments. Sweaty shoes and socks add to the dampness and can make the infection worse. Sharing towels, sheets, clothing, or shoes with someone who has athlete's foot also can spread the infection.
How Is Athlete's Foot Diagnosed?
A doctor can often diagnose athlete's foot just by looking at it and asking questions about the symptoms and the person's lifestyle. Sometimes the doctor will scrape off a small sample of the flaky infected skin to look at under a microscope or to test in a laboratory.
How Is Athlete's Foot Treated?
Over-the-counter (OTC) antifungal creams, sprays, or powders may solve the problem if it is mild. More serious infections may need prescription medicine, either topical (applied to skin) or in pill form.
Whatever you use, continue treatment for as long as recommended, even if the rash seems to be getting better. If not, the infection can come back. Some people regularly use medicated foot powders and sprays to prevent this from happening.
How Long Does Athlete's Foot Last?
Most mild cases of athlete's foot clear up within 2 weeks. But treatment can go for several weeks or longer if the infection is more serious or affects the toenails.
Can Athlete's Foot Be Prevented?
Athlete's foot often can be prevented. To avoid it:
Keep feet clean and dry by washing them daily and drying them completely, especially between the toes. (Use a clean towel and avoid sharing.)
Wear waterproof shoes or flip-flops when walking around in locker rooms, public showers, and public pool areas.
Switch between wearing shoes or sneakers to prevent the build-up of moisture. Choose ones that are well-ventilated with small holes to keep the feet dry.
Avoid socks that trap moisture or make the feet sweat. Instead, choose cotton or wool socks or ones made of fabric that wicks away moisture.
Change socks regularly, especially if the feet get sweaty.
Use a powder on the feet every day to help reduce sweating.
Reviewed by: Elana Pearl Ben-Joseph, MD
Date reviewed: February 2018
for Teens
MORE ON THIS TOPIC
Ringworm
Hygiene Basics
Tips for Taking Care of Your Skin
Jock Itch
Skin, Hair, and Nails
Impetigo
Ingrown Toenails
Germs: Bacteria, Viruses, Fungi, and Protozoa
Print
Send to a Friend
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Copyright
Note: All information is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- KidsHealth® All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.
Home
Careers
Quality Care
For Health Professionals
For Employees
For Non-Employees
For Clinical Students
For Vendors
Contact
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Notice of Privacy Practices English
Notice of Privacy Practices Spanish
Copyright © Vidant Health. All Rights Reserved.
Find A Location
Hospital Locations
Vidant Beaufort Hospital
Vidant Bertie Hospital
Vidant Chowan Hospital
Vidant Duplin Hospital
Vidant Edgecombe Hospital
Vidant Medical Center
Vidant Pungo Hospital
Vidant Roanoke-Chowan Hospital
The Outer Banks Hospital
Albemarle Health
Clinical Locations
Vidant Children's Hospital
Community Care Plan
East Carolina Heart Institute
Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation
Vidant Home Health & Hospice
Minor Emergency Department
Vidant Pain Management Centers
Patient Testing Center
Rehabilitation Center
Inpatient Hospice
Vidant Sleep Centers
SurgiCenter
Vidant Medical Group Practices
Vidant Wellness Centers
Vidant Wound Healing Centers
Support Facilities
Cashiers Office
Employment
Foundation
Quality Care
Patient Care at Vidant
Patient Experience
Quality
Safety
Our Hospitals
Our Optimal Care Measures
Our Prevention Measures
Careers
Careers
Health Careers
View Job Listings
Physician and Provider Opportunities