Learn to Spot Depression: Symptoms, Warning Signs, Medication
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/depression center/ depression a-z list/slideshows a-z list > depression overview pictures slideshow article
Learn to Spot Depression: Symptoms, Warning Signs, Medication
What Is Depression?
While everyone feels sad from time to time, if that occurs most days for more than two weeks, it could mean that clinical depression is occurring. Major depression is a period of sadness, irritability, or low motivation that occurs with other symptoms, lasts at least two weeks in a row, and is severe enough to negatively affect one's life. Depression is not a sign of weakness or a character flaw. It is a real and treatable medical illness.
These PET scans of the brain indicate low activity in a person suffering from depression compared to someone who is not depressed.
Depression: Emotional Symptoms
The most prominent symptoms of depression are usually a sad or irritable mood and/or loss of interest in all or most activities that used to be pleasurable. Patients may also experience guilt despite having done nothing wrong, as well as feeling worthless, hopeless, and/or have recurring thoughts of wanting to die, kill, or otherwise harm themselves, as in cutting or burning themselves.
Depression Symptoms: Physical
Depression can sometimes be associated with physical symptoms. Examples may include the following:
Tiredness and low energy level
Trouble sleeping, particularly early morning waking
Sleeping too much
Aches or pains, especially headaches, muscle cramps, or digestive problems (for example, stomachaches, diarrhea, or constipation) that do not improve even with pain focused treatment
Feeling or seeming slowed down or agitated
Depression can worsen many other medical problems, especially those that cause chronic pain. Certain brain chemicals affect pain and mood, and treating depression tends to improve the symptoms and outcomes of many physical illnesses.
Depression: Appetite Symptoms
Some individuals with depression experience an increase or decrease in appetite, which may lead to substantial loss or gain in weight.
How Depression Can Impact Daily Life
Left untreated, the symptoms of depression can negatively impact the sufferer's activities, relationships, and career. Depressed people often have trouble concentrating and making decisions. They may stop participating in activities they used to enjoy, including sex, as well as no longer spending time with loved ones. In severe cases, depression can be fatal as the result of homicide or suicide.
Warning Signs of Suicide
People with depression are at risk for trying to commit suicide. Warning signs may include talking about suicide or dying, threatening to hurt others, becoming irritable or taking excessive risks, giving away personal belongings, or otherwise settling personal affairs. Any warning signs for suicide should be taken very seriously and immediate help should be sought, either through the closest emergency room or in discussion with a suicide hotline. Two suicide hotlines include 800-SUICIDE (800-784-2433) and 800-273-TALK (800-273-8255).
Who Is at Risk for Developing Depression?
While anyone can develop depression, it is widely thought that a family history of depression is a risk factor for the illness. For example, being the child or sibling of a depressed person increases one's risk of developing a depressive disorder. Women are twice as likely as men to have this condition at some point in their lives. How often depression occurs may be difficult to determine since symptoms of this illness can vary somewhat based on gender, age, and ethnic background.
Causes of Depression
While it is not clear what specifically causes depression, a widely accepted theory is a change in brain structure and chemistry. Specifically, substances called neurotransmitters are out of balance in depressed people. Possible causes for the imbalance include certain medications, alcohol or substance abuse, hormonal or seasonal changes, or enduring a traumatic event, like being the victim of abuse or losing a loved one or a job.
Seasonal Depression
If someone has a pattern of feeling depressed in a particular season, he or she may have a type of depression called seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Although SAD may occur in any season, it is most likely to occur fall and winter, when the daylight hours are shorter. Research shows that SAD occurs in 3%-20% of all people, depending upon where they live.
Postpartum Depression
What people commonly call the "baby blues" afflicts up to 75% of new mothers. More than 10% of those women experience more severe and persistent sadness even if their baby is healthy. That condition, called postpartum depression, has symptoms that are very similar to the symptoms of major depression. However, in postpartum depression, the baby's well-being may become at risk since a depressed mother may have trouble enjoying, bonding with, and caring for her infant. In rare instances, the mother may become a danger to herself or her infant.
Depression in Children
Depression afflicts 2% of children in grade school and about 10% of teens In the United States. It can impair the child or adolescent's friendships and school performance. Many of the symptoms are similar to those in depressed adults, but depression can be harder to diagnose in children, partly because they may revert to earlier behaviors (regress), seem angry, or engage in risky behaviors.
Preschoolers Can Suffer From Depression, Too
HealthDay news article on MedicineNet
MONDAY, August 4, 2014 -- "Depression can strike at any age, even among preschoolers, researchers report.
And if it does strike, the odds are that the disorder will recur throughout childhood, a new study shows..." Read full article on MedicineNet
Diagnosing Depression
A specific blood test for depression has yet to be developed. Therefore, doctors must use the sufferer's description of their symptoms in order to diagnose this condition. Other information that is usually gathered as part of the assessment include information about medical history, substance abuse, and medication use since these issues may contribute to symptoms of depression. Understanding someone's family medical and mental-health history can help determine what he or she is at risk for developing. Discussing moods, behaviors, and daily activities can help the mental-health professional assess the severity and type of depression the person is experiencing. Gathering all this information is important to the professional in order to provide the best treatment.
Talk Therapy for Depression
Research shows that different forms of talk therapy (psychotherapy) can help alleviate depression that is of mild to moderate severity. The goal of cognitive behavioral therapy is to help the individual alter ways of thinking and behaving that may lead to depression. Interpersonal therapy works with the depressed person to understand how his or her ways of interacting with others can contribute to depression. Psychodynamic therapy helps the depression sufferer understand and come to terms with how issues from their past may unconsciously affect their current moods and actions. Studies indicate that most people who are having their first episode of major depression need at least six months of treatment to resolve the depressive episode.
Medications for Depression
Many medications, antidepressants, are effective for the treatment of depression. These medications affect the levels of brain chemicals, like serotonin and norepinephrine. It may take some weeks to feel the positive effect of these medications, so it is important to remain vigilant in taking them and working with a doctor in the process. Studies show that people suffering from depression tend to get better faster and more robustly when treated with a combination of psychotherapy and medication compared to treatment with either medication or therapy alone.
Exercise for Depression
Studies show that moderate exercise can be an important part of alleviating mild to moderate depression because it causes the release of chemicals called endorphins. In addition to the medical benefits of exercise, the release of endorphins tends to elevate mood and self-esteem, decrease stress, increase energy level, and improve sleep. Engaging in just 30 minutes of activity that elevates heart rate three to four times per week is enough for anyone to reap the benefits of exercise.
Light Therapy (Phototherapy)
Light therapy, also called phototherapy, can be an effective treatment for SAD and other types of depression. This form of treatment involves sitting in front of a medical light box that emits a specific kind of light for several minutes per day. Phototherapy should only be used when recommended by a doctor and is often used with psychotherapy or medication to achieve the best effects.
St. John's Wort for Depression
St. John's wort is an herbal supplement that has been found to be a potential help for mild depression, but two large studies have shown it is ineffective against moderate or severe depression. Also, St. John's wort can interact poorly with other medications. It is therefore important to ask a doctor before taking this or any other supplement.
Pets for Depression
While loving pets cannot take the place of psychotherapy and medication in treating depression, these family members can be helpful for many people who suffer from mild depression. Pets relieve stress by providing love and companionship. Research shows that animal-assisted therapy can also decrease agitation that often goes with depression.
The Role of Social Support
Since loneliness often accompanies depression, having good relationships and social support can be an important part of recovery from this illness. Joining a support group, either in person or online, having regular contact with loved ones, or joining a club can help ward off becoming socially isolated. Spiritual connectedness, either with other people at a place of worship or just believing in a power bigger than oneself, can help decrease depression as well.
Vagus Nerve Stimulation (VNS)
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) helps patients who suffer from chronic treatment-resistant depression that does not improve with the combination of psychotherapy and medication. VNS requires the surgical insertion of an electrical device that alleviates depression by inducing a normal electrical pattern in the brain by sending electrical pulses through the vagus nerve in the neck.
Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT)
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is another treatment option for people who struggle with severe treatment-resistant depression. This treatment involves administering electric impulses to create a controlled seizure while the patient is under sedation. ECT helps 80% to 90% of people who receive it, which is significant given that most of those individuals would otherwise continue to suffer. While this form of treatment has a history of stigma attached to it, changes in the way it was implemented decades ago have significantly decreased side effects and improved its effectiveness.
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is another option for people with severe depression that does not respond adequately to medication and psychotherapy. With rTMS, physicians aim electromagnetic currents at the skull to stimulate a small electrical current in a part of the brain linked to depression. In contrast to ECT, rTMS does not cause a seizure and seems to have few side effects. However, not many doctors have the training and experience to implement this form of treatment.
Good Outlook
While afflicted with the symptoms of major depression, one might feel hopeless and unable to function. However, this condition is quite treatable and as much as 80% of people with the condition recover with the help of medication, talk therapy, or both forms of treatment. For those who do not improve with those traditional treatments, interventions like VNS, ECT, or rTMS can bring significant relief for many people.
Reviewed by Physicians' Review Network (PRN) on 8/3/2016
Learn to Spot Depression: Symptoms, Warning Signs, Medication
Sources:
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
Science Source / Photo Researchers, Inc.
Glowimages
Bartomeu Amengual / age fotostock
Jutta Klee / Stone
Symphonie / Iconica
Nikolaevich / Photonica
Jetta Productions, Inc / Iconica
3D4Medical.com
Megan Wyeth / Aurora
Charles Gullung / Photonica
Image Source
BigStockPhoto
Steve McAlister / Riser
Mauro Fermariello / Photo Researchers, Inc.
Mauro Fermariello / Photo Researchers, Inc.
Katzer / Mauritius
Christopher Furlong / Getty Images
Dr. Jeremy Burgess / Photo Researchers, Inc.
Leigh Schindler / Photodisc
Alistair Berg / Digital Vision
David J. Phillip / AP
Will McIntyre / Photo Researchers, Inc.
Richard T. Nowitz / Photo Researchers, Inc.
Frank Gaglione / Riser
REFERENCES:
American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry: "Animal-assisted Therapy and Agitation and Depression in Nursing Home Residents With Dementia - A Matched Case-control Trial"
American Psychiatric Association: "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders"
Archives of General Psychiatry: "Causal Associations of Physical Activity/Exercise and Symptoms of Depression and Anxiety"
Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neuroscience: "Use of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for Treatment in Psychiatry"
CNS Spectrums: "Clinical and Pharmacologic Perspectives on the Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder"
Cochrane Database Systems Review: "Exercise for Depression"
Current Directions in Psychological Science: "Gender Differences in Depression"
Journal of Clinical Psychiatry: "Two-year Outcome of Vagus Nerve Stimulation (VNS) for Treatment of Major Depressive Episodes"
Journal of the American Medical Association: "Postpartum Depression"
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill: "A Family Guide: What Families Need to Know About Adolescent Depression"
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
Primary Care: "Complementary and Alternative Medicine Usage for Behavioral Health Indications"
World of Psychology: "Can Religion or Spirituality Help Ward Off Depression?"
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information:
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the MedicineNet Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
© 1996-2019 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Source slideshow at OnHealth
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth