Sanofi and Regeneron Report Positive Asthma Trial Results | Fox Business
News
Back
News Financials Economy Retail Healthcare Energy Industrials Managing Wealth and Giving Modern Retirement Media
Markets Personal Finance Small Buisness Technology Features
Back
Features Luxury Business Leaders
Video
Back
Video Shows Anchors & Reporters Show Clips
Close the sidebar
Fox Business
Search
News
Markets
Personal Finance
Small Business
Technology
Features
TV
Financials
Economy
Retail
Healthcare
Energy
Industrials
Media
Luxury
Business Leaders
Modern Retirement
Shows
Anchors and Reporters
Show Clips
Advertisement
Sanofi and Regeneron Report Positive Asthma Trial Results
By Sonia Amaral Rohter Published October 31, 2017 FeaturesDow Jones Newswires
Facebook
Twitter
Comments
Print
Sanofi SA (SAN.FR) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) on Tuesday reported positive results from their phase 3 trial investigating the use of co-developed drug dupilumab as a steroid-dependent asthma treatment.
The trial studied the use of dupilumab in patients with severe chronic asthma who rely on oral corticosteroids to help control symptoms and reduce asthma attacks. Oral corticosteroids can have serious side effects, such as osteoporosis or diabetes.
Continue Reading Below
Dupilumab, also known as Dupixent, is already approved to treat eczema.
France&apos;s Sanofi says that participants who received dupilumab in conjunction with standard therapies were able to reduce their use of maintenance oral corticosteroids by 70% on average, experienced 59% fewer asthma attacks, and improved their lung function.
Dupilumab, which is being jointly developed by Sanofi and Regeneron, works by blocking a pathway that leads to inflammation. Sanofi is studying its use in other inflammatory diseases such as pediatric eczema and food allergies.
The French company plans to apply for a supplemental biologics license from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by the end of this year that relates to the use of dupilumab as an asthma treatment.
According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, approximately 18.4 million adults and 6.2 million children suffer from asthma in the U.S.
Advertisement
Write to Sonia Amaral Rohter at sonia.amaralrohter@dowjones.com
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
October 31, 2017 08:42 ET (12:42 GMT)
URL
Fox Business
Markets
Politics
Features
FBN TV
About Fox Business
Channel Finder
Advertise With Us
Ad Choices
Jobs
Internships
Terms of Use
Updated Privacy Policy
FAQ
Media Relations
Closed Captioning Policy
Accessibility Statement
Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Real-time quotes provided by BATS BZX Real-Time Price. Market Data provided by Interactive Data (Terms & Conditions). Powered and Implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions. Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar. Earnings estimates data provided by Zacks. Mutual fund and ETF data provided by Lipper. Economic data provided by Econoday. Dow Jones & Company Terms & Conditions.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. FAQ - Updated Privacy Policy