 Certain interventions can improve adherence to therapeutic exercise in patients with / osteoarthritis and low back pain | Medznat
Jump to navigation
Login
Search
Login
Register/
En
Ru
Portal for the healthcare professionals
MY HOME
NEWS
Pain Management
Russia Regulatory
Global Regulatory
SCIENCE
Abstracts
Summaries
Clinical Research
Systematic Reviews
Case Studies
E-Posters
REGULATORY
Russia
Global
DRUGS
Drug Flash Cards
EVENTS
Conference Calendar
EXPERT VOICE
Expert Drug Opinion
EDUCATION
Lectures
Smart Guidelines
Textbooks & Charts
Student Corner
Presentations
HELP THE PATIENT
Patient Education
YOUR PRACTICE
Practice Management
AV ROOMS
Audio Summaries
Video Summaries
DISEASE AREA
Anesthesia
Arthritis
Dental Pain
ENT
Pelvic pain
Pain
Low Back Pain
Headache
Dysmenorrhea
Diabetic Neuropathy
Migraine
Osteoarthritis
Osteoporosis
Gout
Post herpetic neuralgia
Injuries
Phantom Pain
Fibromyalgia
Gonarthrosis
Sprain
You are here
Home
Certain interventions can improve adherence to therapeutic exercise in patients with / osteoarthritis and low back pain
Primary tabs
View (active tab)
Generate PDF
NEWS
Pain Management
Certain interventions can improve adherence to therapeutic exercise in patients with / osteoarthritis and low back pain
According to earlier studies, four out of five adults experience back pain at some point in their lives and osteoarthritis is quite common among adults with increasing age. The interventions focused on elevating adherence to therapeutic exercise increased adherence greater than a contextually equivalent control among older patients suffering from chronic low back pain and/or hip/knee osteoarthritis are discussed in this study.
This is a systematic review and meta-analysis in which 5 databases (MEDLINE PubMed, CINAHL, SportDISCUS (EBSCO), Embase (Ovid) and Cochrane Library) were searched until 1st August 2016.
The randomised controlled trials segregated the effects of interventions focused at improving adherence to therapeutic exercise among adults aged ≥45 years with chronic low back pain and/or hip/knee osteoarthritis.
Out of 3899 studies identified, 9 studies comprising 1045 participants were appropriate for the study. The techniques aimed at ameliorating motivation or using behavioral graded exercise, reported significantly better exercise adherence (d=0.26-1.23) were estimated in 4 studies. On the contrary, behavioral counseling, action coping strategies and/or audio/video exercise cues did not improve adherence worth noting. A small to medium significant pooled effect favouring booster sessions (standardised mean difference; SMD, 0.39, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.72, z=2.26, p=0.02, I2=35%) arised due to meta-analysis using a random effects model with the two studies estimating booster sessions with a physiotherapist for people with osteoarthritis.
Therefore, this meta-analysis provides a moderate-quality evidence for booster sessions with a physiotherapist assisted people with hip/knee osteoarthritis to better adhere to therapeutic exercise. The use of motivational techniques in people with chronic low back pain and graded behavioral exercise in people with osteoarthritis for upgrading adherence to exercise was supported by the individual high-quality trials.
Source:
Br J Sports Med.
Link to the source:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28087567
The original title of the article:
Interventions to increase adherence to therapeutic exercise in older adults with low back pain and/or hip/knee osteoarthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis
Authors
Nicolson PJ et al.
SearchTags:
Therapeutic, Low Back Pain, Osteoarthritis, Spine, Hip, Knee, Systematic Review and Meta-analysis
Log in or register to post comments
NEW IN MEDZNAT
Science
Bilateral Greater Occipital Nerve Blocks (GONB) With Bupivacaine for Acute Migra ...
Events
International Society for the Study of Bladder Pain Syndrome 2019 (ESSIC 2019)
Events
World Congress on Osteoarthritis and Neuromuscular Diseases
Events
The International Conference on Controversies in Neuropathic Pain 2019
Events
The 38th Annual Meeting of the JSBMR
Events
12th World Congress on Anesthesiology and Critical Care
Events
The 37th Annual Meeting of the JSBMR
Events
2019 Congress Of Clinical Rheumatology
Events
ASBMR 2020 Annual Meeting
Events
ASBMR 2019 Annual Meeting
Events
38th Annual Meeting of the European Bone and Joint Infection Society
Events
XIV Congress of the International Society of Bone Morphometry
AUDIO-VISUAL ROOM
Thank you for your participation!
2 mins. watch
Event Calendar
Events
April
«
»
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
31
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
1
2
3
4
FUN ZONE
Show All
About
Medznat, an initiative of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., is a resource for practicing doctors to enable their continuous learning. It provides unbiased and relevant medical information, apart from several other useful resources to aid their daily practice.
Partners
Medznat brings together premium content from leading publishers globally, to deliver comprehensive and up-to-date medical information.
Content Source
Medznat presents current medical information from the world's leading sources - the largest databases PubMed and DOAJ. Translation of articles made by ABBYY-LS
The scientific editors of the Medznat website make sure that our publications are accurate, simple and useful to the readers. We are always glad for your questions or suggestions!
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. dose not endores and its not responsible for the accuracy of the content, or for practices or standards of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd sources. Please read our Terms of Use for more information
© 2015 Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. All rights reserved.
Please read the legal notice for further details. Unless otherwise specified, all product and service names appearing in this Internet site are trademarks owned by or licensed to Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories its subsidiaries or affiliates.
Disclaimer
Contact us