Runny nose in children treatment – Health SMX
Skip to content
Health SMX
Women's health and beauty portal
Search:
Home
Psychology
Travels
Health
Sport
Diet
Nutrition
Pregnancy and Children
Beauty
Hair
Hairstyles
Skin
Makeup
Face
Nails
Teeth
Cosmetics
Hands
Interesting
Wedding
Home » Pregnancy and Children
Runny nose in children treatment
14.03.2019 Category: Pregnancy and Children
A runny nose is a constant companion of a cold. Traditional medicine has always helped fight it. Particularly relevant folk recipes to combat nasal congestion in children. After all, if these recipes are used correctly, the traditional methods of treating a cold will be the most effective and at the same time they are not dangerous.
In addition, the reception of folk remedies for a cold will not become a habit. These remedies do not have side effects and contraindications, but they will be quite inexpensive. But before you look for remedies for a cold, you need to find out what causes it, how it proceeds and what its symptoms are.
The causes of the common cold in children
There are both physiological and pathological causes of the development of the common cold in children.
All causes of rhinitis (scientifically rhinitis) are divided into:
Often, nasal congestion appears under the influence of the causes of the first group, that is, the disease occurs under the influence of viruses. Penetrating into the nasal cavity, viruses invade human cells and begin to actively develop within a few days.
When the air temperature drops sharply, the risk of “catching up” runny nose increases. This is because, firstly, at the time of the temperature difference, microbes change their ability to become infected, and, secondly, the human body can be supercooled. Often, it is supercooled feet that cause a runny nose in children. After all, the feet and nose have reflex connections.
The second group of causes include the violation of the integrity of the nasal mucosa with foreign objects.
Also, a runny nose can be a manifestation of allergies.
Thus, the cause of the head cold in a child can be:
exposure to viruses
hypothermia
allergic reaction
damage to the nasal mucosa
It should be borne in mind that a runny nose can be both an independent disease and a symptom of another disease.
Symptoms of rhinitis
Congestion and nasal discharge, frequent sneezing – signs of a cold in a child
There are several of the most striking signs of a cold in children. Moreover, these symptoms can be divided into stages of the disease:
At the stage of the development of rhinitis, the disease will manifest itself by frequent sneezing, itching and dryness in the nose, in the region of the nasopharynx, the person may feel tingling, and the throat quickly dries out. This stage of rhinitis can last for several hours or two days.
The second stage is inflammation itself. It is characterized by redness of the skin of the integument in the area of ​​the nose, as well as mucus, which is abundantly released from the nose. At first this mucus is thinner, as the disease progresses, it becomes thicker. Discharge from the nose makes breathing difficult, and this causes poor sleep, and infants suck milk less well.
Stage of completion. With the proper treatment of nasal discharge, becoming thicker, as a result, disappear completely. But if measures to eliminate the common cold were not taken, then the development of complications, the emergence of more serious diseases, such as sinusitis or ear diseases, are possible.
Treatment of rhinitis by steam inhalation
Steam inhalation is an effective method for the treatment of rhinitis, but it has a number of contraindications that you need to know!
Steam inhalation is not applicable if the child has a fever. Temperature 37, 5 is the threshold above which inhalation will not benefit. The explanation is obvious: steam inhalation will necessarily lead to local heating, which may cause a further increase in temperature.
Do not inhale a child whose snot is green or yellow. This color of mucus indicates the content of pus in it, which means that the child has an infection caused by bacteria. Heating the nasopharynx, you can cause the multiplication of bacteria, since it is in the warmth of bacteria that multiply well.
If there is blood in the mucus, then steam inhalation should also be abandoned. Blood secretions indicate that the capillaries located in the nasal mucosa, burst. Heating will only increase bleeding. Inhalation should not be done if the child has ear pain and the baby complains of ear congestion. Otitis, complications – this is what can cause heat. When conducting steam inhalation, you need to control the temperature of the steam. It should be no more than 40 degrees. Otherwise, you can burn the nasopharynx.
The main purpose of steam inhalation is to warm the nose and throat.
As a result of such heating, the pores expand, and this contributes to the absorption of beneficial substances. Hot steam helps to make mucus more liquid, and also quickly removes it from the body. The most affordable way to conduct steam inhalation at home is to use a pan with hot water.
More information about how to properly treat the runny nose in children with folk methods can be found in the video:
Steam inhalations with the following decoctions have a good therapeutic effect:
Chamomile, thyme, lavender, coltsfoot, sage are taken in the same quantity, 50 grams should be in total in the dry state of the herb. The collection poured liter of boiling water. It is recommended to insist in a thermos.
For older children, you can use a decoction with eucalyptus leaves. In young children, eucalyptus, which has a persistent odor, can cause allergies. One tablespoon of eucalyptus leaves is immersed in half a liter of boiling water and boiled for ten minutes. After that, the temperature of the broth is reduced to 35 degrees, and you can already breathe above it.
By the same scheme, you can make a decoction of a coltsfoot. This will require 15 grams of dry plants and 200 ml of boiling water.
Also overcome a runny nose in a state of inhalation based on blackberry leaves. Take dry leaves and stems in an amount of 20 grams and pour 200 ml of water. This mixture is boiled for 10 minutes.
Children can not be treated with rhinitis inhalation, which are based on essential oils. Inhalation of their vapors can cause a spasm, and the child may suffocate.
To inhalation were effective, they need to be carried out 1-2 times a day. The time of the procedure will depend on the age of the patient. Starting inhalation from one minute, you can gradually increase the time, but the procedure can not last longer than 5 minutes.
Compresses at a cold for children
Heat, not only in the form of inhalation, can help to cure a cold. This task will cope perfectly well, warming the sinuses. However, it must be borne in mind that the compress will be effective in treating only the early stage of rhinitis, the cause of which is the virus.
The developing bacterial infection cannot be cured with the help of a compress, since the heat will lead to an increase in the number of bacteria, and therefore, the exacerbation of the disease.
Traditional methods of treatment of rhinitis in children suggest the use of such compresses:
Salt, buckwheat can be heated in an ungreased pan. Then the heated component is poured into any soft tissue (pouch, sock). Putting a bag of croup or salt on the wings of the nose, the child warms up the sinuses.
You can somewhat decorate such a compression treatment, putting the heated particles in a toy, sewn with your own hands for this occasion. And so that such a kind of heating pad does not cool, you can warm it up on the battery when there is a break between the heating procedures.
Another compress known in folk medicine is a boiled egg. A boiled egg is applied to the sinuses. The heat of the egg allows you to warm up the nose, diluting the mucus and contributing to its more rapid release.
A tortilla made from rye flour can serve as a heating pad for the nose. The cake should be warm, and when cooking, you can add honey to the dough.
The recipe for another compress will be associated with potatoes. Potatoes are boiled, cut in half. Potato half, pre-wrapped with paper or cloth, you need to put on the chest of a sick child. When the potatoes begin to cool, the burner resistant paper or tissue is removed. This compress should be left on the breast of the child for at least 20 minutes.
All warming and compresses are best done in the evening. Evening procedures will keep you warm longer, since after them the child can be wrapped tightly and put to sleep, thus ensuring peace.
Home drops: cooking recipes
Aloe juice – the most effective and popular folk remedy for a cold
Probably, drops from a cold – this is the first thing that comes to mind when there is a need to cope with a stuffy nose in a child. After all, it is the drops that quickly deliver the medicine to the inflamed area and they also begin to act more quickly.
Pharmacy shelves are filled with drugs that can overcome this disease. But drops, which can be prepared at home by yourself according to popular recipes, can help just as well. In addition to effective treatment, they will also provide a guarantee of safety for the child.
Here are some recipes:
Beetroot helps cure a runny nose, especially at the initial stage of the disease. Drops consisting of beets and honey work well. Boiled water in the amount of one dessert spoon mixed with beet juice. Beetroot juice will need one tablespoon. To this mixture is added honey in the amount of 1/3 tsp. Before the instillation of the drop is worth a little warm. Take 7 drops in each nostril at intervals of two hours.
Effective in dealing with rhinitis and carrot juice. The process of making drops is as follows: to one tablespoon of carrot juice add vegetable oil in the same quantity. This mixture should be boiled in a water bath. Then 1-3 drops of garlic juice are dropped into this composition. This medicine is taken no more than three times a day, 3-4 drops in each nasal passage.
Garlic drops. A few cloves of garlic are grated, then the juice is squeezed through gauze. The child should not get burned by the nasal mucosa, so the juice must be diluted with water in a 1: 1 ratio. Eat such drops should be three times a day, dripping one drop in each nasal passage.
Not only vegetables, but also herbal preparations can help children with nasal congestion. For the preparation of herbal drops will require peppermint, lemon balm, plantain. In the dry form of each herb you need to take in the amount of one tablespoon. Each species is brewed in a separate glass of boiling water. The resulting infusions are required to mix and take five drops in each nostril.
Houseplants will also help in the treatment of rhinitis. From two fresh leaves of aloe juice is pressed and diluted with boiled water in a ratio of 1 to 10. Water for dilution should be cool. The resulting drops are instilled 3-5 times a day.
Oil drops are recommended for children over 5 years old. To prepare the drops, you will need two drops of thyme oil mixed with a teaspoon of olive oil. You can apply three times a day.
And again the grass in action. One and a half tablespoons of dried flowers of Hypericum are added to the refined oil and left for 21 days. After this period, the drops are filtered and kept in the refrigerator. Before taking, you need to warm the drops.
Other popular folk methods of rhinitis
Nasal rinsing is a safe treatment for rhinitis in children.
Since hypothermia of the legs is considered to be one of the causes of nasal congestion, rhinitis can be treated through foot heat.
Folk tips for the treatment of rhinitis:
Baths with the use of mustard not only warm the feet and help with nasal congestion, but also tone up. Mustard bath is recommended to carry out before going to bed. Children should be seated so that their feet are in a high plastic bucket or pelvis and immersed in water knee-deep, and also so that they can drop their hands and arms there to the elbow. In a hot water put a tablespoon of mustard. After the child has gotten his hands and feet in the mustard bath, they should be properly wiped out and secured by wearing warm socks, in which mustard can also be put.
Sometimes it is more convenient to use ointment instead of drops. After all, the ointment does not get into the throat, and the nutrients will be absorbed in full in the nasal cavity, and not pass into the stomach. For the preparation of ointments used most often honey. It can be mixed with peppermint oil in the ratio of 2: 1, and you can mix honey with the butter in the same proportions. This ointment is smeared with each nasal passage several times a day.
They give a good result in the treatment of nasal congestion washing. Children are recommended to wash their nose with a solution of salt. The solution should not be very salty. One teaspoon of salt is taken, it is better than sea salt, and if it is used for cooking, then it is worth taking iodized salt and dissolving in one liter of water. Most often, washing is carried out by sucking in the nose and removing the liquid through the mouth.
It is much more difficult to cure rhinitis in a child than to prevent it. Therefore, in order not to get rhinitis, you should follow quite simple rules:
be sure to walk on the street every day, ideally carry out walks in the woods or the park
ensure that the house is clean and dust free, ensure that the rooms are periodically ventilated
temper the child
vaccinate a child against flu
Noticed a mistake? Select it and press Ctrl + Enter to tell us.
Like this post? Please share to your friends:
Related articles
Pregnancy and Children 0
Visual impairment in children
General information In children, visual impairment causes discomfort and problems in studying reality. May
Pregnancy and Children 0
Herpes treatment in a child
The body of children more than an adult, subject to various viral diseases. This
Pregnancy and Children 0
How chickenpox is transmitted in children
With chickenpox, every child can face, because the disease is characterized by a high
Pregnancy and Children 0
Headache Cure for Pregnant Women
Probably, there is no such person who has not had a headache at least
Pregnancy and Children 0
What is the placenta in pregnant women
Placenta in pregnant women they are also called a children’s place – this indicates
Pregnancy and Children 0
The size of the pelvis during pregnancy rate
Assessment of the lengths of bone landmarks is a necessary diagnostic procedure carried out
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Latest News
DSM-IV-TR
20:55 23 Apr 2019
Where to go in September
20:03 23 Apr 2019
Erosive antral gastritis treatment of folk remedies
18:47 23 Apr 2019
Visual impairment in children
18:27 23 Apr 2019
Beef liver recipe
17:01 23 Apr 2019
False Memory Examples
16:53 23 Apr 2019
Cleft lip child
16:41 23 Apr 2019
© 2019 Health SMX