Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment Video | Arthritis-Health
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Sports-health.com
Arthritis Types
Living with Arthritis
Treatment
Surgery
Forums
Arthritis Types
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Living with Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Coping with Fatigue
Managing Depression
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Arthritis Specialists
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Medications
Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Shoulder Surgery
Forums
All Forums
Alternative Treatments Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Exercises Forum
Medications Forum
Osteoarthritis Forum
Rheumatoid Arthritis Forum
Surgery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find an Arthritis Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Video
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment Video
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment Video
share pin it Newsletters
By Marco Funiciello, DO
Video presented by Marco Funiciello, DO
This video accompanies the following articles:
What Is Shoulder Osteoarthritis (Glenohumeral Arthritis)?
What Is Acromioclavicular Arthritis (AC Joint Arthritis)?
Video Transcript
Osteoarthritis of the shoulder is a progressively degenerative disease that cannot be reversed. A variety of treatments are used to control the pain and slow the disease’s progression. Unfortunately, there is a lack of clinical research that establishes which nonsurgical shoulder osteoarthritis treatments work best for which patients. But this does not mean that treatments are not available or not effective. There is an array of effective treatments that can be used. Without definitive clinical guidelines to direct non-operative treatment, it’s very important that the patient and the doctor have a good relationship and speak quite frankly about the expectations and risks of treatment versus non-treatment. If a person responds very well to nonsurgical treatment, the degenerative process can be slowed down, the pain can be controlled, and surgery can sometimes be avoided all together, or at least postponed.
What are the nonsurgical shoulder osteoarthritis treatments?
Activity modification: Common sense suggests if something hurts, you do not want to push through it. Shoulder osteoarthritis just means "wear and tear of the shoulder joints" such that some of the cartilage in that joint is damaged. By pushing through the pain, you could be causing additional damage. If we can decrease the pain, if we can control the pain, and don’t push through the pain through activity modification, often times we can lessen the extent of damage in that joint.
Symptomatically, warm or cold compresses can be used. Both work in different ways: warmth will help to loosen up the shoulder joint, but it is not anti-inflammatory, whereas cold is anti-inflammatory and it can be more useful in decreasing the pain. But both can be used and alternated throughout the same day.
Physical therapy is one of the main treatments, but aggressive physical therapy should be avoided because it can lead to further damage to the joint. But physical therapists know what is aggressive and what is not, and a good relationship between the physical therapist and the patient should help the physical therapist choose the best treatment. A physical therapist will typically work on increasing the shoulder’s range of motion, stabilizing the shoulder, increasing shoulder strength, and developing coping techniques to do certain painful activities in a different way.
Medications can be useful, but it is important to discuss with your physician the side effects and interactions with other medications. There is an array of medications, for example, analgesics such as over-the-counter medicines like acetaminophen (Tylenol) do not have an anti-inflammatory effect; rather it decreases one’s perception of pain. There are also non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil), naproxen (Aleve), as well as prescription strength selective COX-2 inhibitors such as Celebrex and Mobic which have less of a bleeding effect and can be used by certain people. There are also topical medications that are generally NSAIDs, such as diclofenac, that can be placed over the shoulder itself in the form of a gel or patch. It is important to note that since topical medications will only treat the area where the gel or patch is placed, there is less systemic uptake and therefore less side effect. Topical analgesics such as counter-irritants including wintergreen and eucalyptus stimulate the nerve endings in the shoulder to distract the brain from the pain. There are some over-the-counter options for topical analgesics such as Bengay, Icy-Hot, and Zostrix.
Glucosamine and Chondroitin sometimes can help with joint pain, although studies are mixed. Some have shown favorable results while others have not. Glucosamine and chondroitin are certainly options and something that can be discussed with your physician.
Injections into the shoulder can also be useful; these include steroid injections, prolotherapy type injections, and viscosupplementation. The steroid will decrease inflammation, prolotherapy or PRP therapy will help with regeneration, while viscosupplementation injects a lubricating agent made from rooster comb to decrease friction in the joint.
Finally, there are coping techniques such as relaxation, meditation, visual imagery, biofeedback, and even hypnosis.
An Arthritis-health.com Video
Video presented by Marco Funiciello, DO
Editor's Top Picks
Shoulder Exercises for Arthritis
What Is Shoulder (Subacromial) Bursitis?
Shoulder Rheumatoid Arthritis Video
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Video
Choosing Reverse Shoulder Replacement
Shoulder Replacement Surgery Video
Video Topics
Ankylosing Spondylitis Videos
Alternative Treatments Videos
Bursitis Videos
General Arthritis Videos
Osteoarthritis Videos
Rheumatoid Arthritis Videos
Joint Anatomy Videos
Exercise Videos
Injection Videos
Hip Surgery Videos
Knee Surgery Videos
Shoulder Surgery Videos
advertisement
Osteoarthritis Topics
Osteoarthritis
Overview
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
Spinal Osteoarthritis
Shoulder Osteoarthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis
Knee Osteoarthritis
Ankle Osteoarthritis
Videos
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Arthritis Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Image Gallery
Find a Joint Pain Specialist
Find an Arthritis Center
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Arthritis-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Arthritis-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding arthritis and arthritis related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.02.046-2019.02.007