acetaminophen (Tylenol) Side Effects (Liver Toxicity) and Dosage
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/chronic pain health center/chronic pain a-z list/acetaminophen article
Acetaminophen Uses, Side Effects, and Dosage
What is acetaminophen? How does it work (mechanism of action)?
What are the uses for acetaminophen?
What are the side effects of acetaminophen?
What is the dosage for acetaminophen for children and adults?
What drugs interact with acetaminophen?
Is acetaminophen safe to take if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
What brand names are available for acetaminophen?
What else should I know about acetaminophen?
Pharmacy Author: Omudhome Ogbru, PharmD
Omudhome Ogbru, PharmD
Dr. Ogbru received his Doctorate in Pharmacy from the University of the Pacific School of Pharmacy in 1995. He completed a Pharmacy Practice Residency at the University of Arizona/University Medical Center in 1996. He was a Professor of Pharmacy Practice and a Regional Clerkship Coordinator for the University of the Pacific School of Pharmacy from 1996-99.
Medical and Pharmacy Editor: Jay W. Marks, MD
Jay W. Marks, MD
Jay W. Marks, MD, is a board-certified internist and gastroenterologist. He graduated from Yale University School of Medicine and trained in internal medicine and gastroenterology at UCLA/Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
A Visual Guide to Migraine Headaches Slideshow
Headache and Migraine Triggers Slideshow
Take the Migraines Quiz
What is acetaminophen? How does it work (mechanism of action)?
What are the uses for acetaminophen?
What are the side effects of acetaminophen?
What is the dosage for acetaminophen for children and adults?
What drugs interact with acetaminophen?
Is acetaminophen safe to take if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
What brand names are available for acetaminophen?
What else should I know about acetaminophen?
What is acetaminophen? How does it work (mechanism of action)?
Acetaminophen belongs to a class of drugs called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). The exact mechanism of action of acetaminophen is not known. It may reduce the production of prostaglandins in the brain. Prostaglandins are chemicals that cause inflammation and swelling. Acetaminophen relieves pain by elevating the pain threshold, that is, by requiring a greater amount of pain to develop before a person feels it. It reduces fever through its action on the heat-regulating center of the brain. Specifically, it tells the center to lower the body's temperature when the temperature is elevated.
The FDA approved acetaminophen in 1951.
What are the uses for acetaminophen?
Acetaminophen is used for the relief of fever as well as aches and pains associated with many conditions. Acetaminophen relieves pain in mild arthritis but has no effect on the underlying inflammation, redness, and swelling of the joint. If the pain is not due to inflammation, acetaminophen is as effective as aspirin.
Acetaminophen is as effective as the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen (Motrin) in relieving the pain of osteoarthritis of the knee. Unless directed by a physician, acetaminophen should not be used for longer than 10 days.
What are the side effects of acetaminophen?
When used appropriately, side effects with acetaminophen are not common.
The most common side effects are rash, nausea, and headache.
Other important side effects include:
Hypersensitivity reactions
Serious skin reactions
Kidney damage
Anemia
Reduced number of platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenia)
Chronic alcohol use may also increase the risk of stomach bleeding. The most serious side effect is liver damage due to large doses, chronic use or concomitant use with alcohol or other drugs that also damage the liver.
Other serious side effects that have been reported include bleeding in the intestines and stomach, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and kidney damage. A reduction in the number of white blood cells has also been reported.
What is the dosage for acetaminophen for children and adults?
The dose for adults is 325 to 650 mg every 4 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours when using immediate release formulations.
The dose for extended release caplet is 1300 mg every 8 hours.
The maximum daily dose is 4 grams.
The oral dose for a child is based on the child's age and weight. If less than 12 years of age, the dosing is 10-15 mg/kg every 6-8 hours not to exceed 2.6 g/day (5 doses). If older than 12 years of age the dose is 40-60 mg/kg/day every 6 hours not to exceed 3.75 g/day (5 doses).
What drugs interact with acetaminophen?
Acetaminophen is metabolized (eliminated by conversion to other chemicals) by the liver. Therefore drugs that increase the action of liver enzymes that metabolize acetaminophen, [for example, carbamazepine (Tegretol), isoniazid, rifampin (Rifamate, Rifadin, and Rimactane),] reduce the levels of acetaminophen and may decrease the effectiveness action of acetaminophen.
Doses of acetaminophen greater than the recommended doses are toxic to the liver and may result in severe liver damage. The potential for acetaminophen to harm the liver is increased when it is combined with alcohol or drugs that also harm the liver.
Cholestyramine (Questran) reduces the effect of acetaminophen by decreasing its absorption into the body from the intestine. Therefore, acetaminophen should be administered 3 to 4 hours after cholestyramine or one hour before cholestyramine .
Acetaminophen doses greater than 2275 mg per day may increase the blood thinning effect of warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) by an unknown mechanism. Therefore, prolonged administration or large doses of acetaminophen should be avoided during warfarin therapy.
Daily Health News
Is Flu's Spread Under Control?
First Non-Drug Therapy for ADHD
'Superbugs' in Hospital Rooms
Opioid Overdose Nasal Spray
Blood Pressure Limits for Kids
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID)
Listeria (Listeriosis)
Food Poisoning
Whooping Cough and Vaccine
Measles (Rubeola)
Is acetaminophen safe to take if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small quantities. However, acetaminophen use by the nursing mother appears to be safe.
What brand names are available for acetaminophen?
Tylenol, Tylenol Arthritis Pain, Tylenol Ext, Little Fevers Children's Fever/Pain Reliever, Little Fevers Infant Fever/Pain Reliever, PediaCare Single Dose Acetaminophen Fever Reducer/Pain Reliever, Infants Feverall, Acephen, Neopap, and others.
What else should I know about acetaminophen?
What preparations of acetaminophen are available?
Solution/suspension/syrup: 160 mg/5 ml
Liquid: 500 mg/ml
Chewable tablets: 80, 160 mg
Tablet (disintegrating) 80, 160 mg
Caplets: 325, 500, 650 mg
Caplet (extended release): 650 mg
Gelcaps: 500 mg
Geltabs: 500 mg
Suppository: 80, 120, 325, 650 mg
How should I keep acetaminophen stored?
Tablets and solutions should be stored at room temperature 15 C to 30 C (59 F to 86 F). Suppositories should be refrigerated between 2 C and 27 C (35 F and 80 F).
A prescription is not necessary for OTC acetaminophen, however, medicines that contain acetaminophen and another painkillers such as hydrocodone (Norco, Vicodin) or codeine (Tylenol #4) require a prescription.
Summary
Acetaminophen is a drug that reduces fever and relieves pain. It is available alone, or in combination with hundreds of other drugs available both over-the-counter (without a prescription) or that that may require a prescription from your doctor, for example, acetaminophen and hydrocodone (Vicodin, Norco) or acetaminophen and oxycodone (Percocet).
Acetaminophen treats a variety of diseases or other medical problems that cause pain or fever. Examples of conditions acetaminophen treats include, headache, minor arthritis pain, back pain, tooth pain, menstrual cramps, PMS, osteoarthritis, common cold, tension headache, chronic pain, hip pain, shoulder and neck pain, sore throat, sinus infection, teething, TMJ, bites and stings, and sprains and strains.
Acetaminophen generally has no side effects when taken as prescribed. When side effects are experienced, the most common are headache, rash, and nausea.
In 2014, the FDA recommended that doctors and other health care professionals only prescribe acetaminophen in doses of 325 mg or less. This warning highlights the potential for allergic reactions, for example, face, mouth, and throat swelling, difficulty breathing, itching, or rash. This action also will help reduce the risk of severe liver injury and serious allergic reactions associated with this drug. Other possible serious side effects adverse effects include anemia, kidney damage, thrombocytopenia (a reduced number of platelets in the blood), and liver problems.
Other patient information. Do not take more than one product that contains acetaminophen at the same time. Do not take more than one acetaminophen-containing drug than directed. Do not drink alcohol while taking medicine that contains acetaminophen due to severe liver damage.
REFERENCE: FDA Prescribing Information.
Multimedia: Slideshows, Images & Quizzes
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Symptoms & Treatment
What is rheumatoid arthritis (RA)? Learn about juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Discover rheumatoid arthritis (RA) symptoms,...
Back Pain: Bad Habits for Your Back
You’re more likely to have back pain as you get older. Here’s how to avoid making things worse with bad habits....
Pain: Why Does My Head Ache?
Find out what's behind your headache, and get some strategies to bring you relief for your pain....
Sore Throat or Strep Throat? How to Tell the Difference
Explore the types and causes of a sore throat through pictures, including strep throat, and learn how to find relief from that...
Low Back Pain: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Relief
Do you suffer from low back pain? Watch this slideshow to see common triggers of lower back pain and what kind of treatments you...
Pain Management: Surprising Causes of Pain
What’s causing your pain? Learn the common causes of lower back pain, as well as pain in the knee, stomach, kidney, shoulder,...
Fibromyalgia Symptoms, Diagnosis & Treatment
What is fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition that causes pain and stiffness of the tendons, muscles, and joints....
Cold Sores Causes, Remedies, & Diagnosis
How to get rid of cold sores? First learn about the herpes virus and how it causes cold sores. When are cold sores contagious?...
Common Causes of Foot Pain
Learn about common causes of foot pain such as bunions, corns, athlete's foot, plantar warts and more. Get the latest information...
Gout Attack Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, and Diet
Gout attacks (gouty arthritis) are caused by crystals of uric acid deposits. Learn about symptoms, causes, treatments and...
Chickenpox Quiz: Test Your Medical IQ
How is chickenpox related to shingles? Take the Chickenpox Quiz to assess your IQ of this itchy, blistering childhood skin...
Cold & Flu Quiz: Influenza vs. Common Cold
Aches? Pain? Fever? This Cold & Flu Quiz tests your knowledge on the difference between coming down with the common cold and...
Back Pain Quiz: Test Your Back Pain IQ
There are numerous causes of chronic lower back pain and only one ailment gets more complaints. What is it? Quiz your knowledge...
Headaches Quiz: Learn About Headache Pain
If you're plagued with headaches, our Headaches Quiz may help you identify causes, triggers, symptoms, and treatments for...
Strep (Streptococcal) Throat Infection Quiz: Test Your Infectious Disease IQ
Take the Strep (Streptococcal) Throat Infection Quiz to learn about causes, symptoms, treatments, prevention methods, diagnosis,...
Pain Quiz: Test Your IQ of Pain
Is pain all in the brain? Take the Pain Quiz to learn everything you've ever wanted to know about the unpleasant sensation we...
Picture of Herpes Blister (Cold Sore)
Cold sores (fever blisters) are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV), passed on through contact with infected skin or body...
Picture of Broken Toe
A commonly injured area of the body is the foot, more specifically, the toes (phalanxes). This often causes one or more of the...
Osteoarthritis (OA): Treatment, Symptoms, Diagnosis
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease affecting both cartilage and bone. Joints most often affected by...
Arthritis: 16 Bad Habits That Cause Joint Pain
Being overweight, wearing uncomfortable shoes, or carrying a heavy purse can make joint pain and arthritis symptoms worse. Some...
Picture of Cold Sores Treatment
You can't cure HSV or a cold sore, but you can alleviate the pain it causes by avoiding spicy or acidic foods, applying ice, and...
Picture of Cold Sore and Canker Sore
Cold sores and canker sores aren't the same. See a picture of Cold Sore and Canker Sore and learn more about the health topic....
Picture of Cold Sore Between Nose and Mouth
Can a cold sore appear somewhere other than your lip? They are not as common, but cold sores can appear anywhere on the face,...
Exercises for Knee Osteoarthritis and Joint Pain
Learn about osteoarthritis and exercises that relieve knee osteoarthritis pain, stiffness and strengthen the knee joint and...
Picture of Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis that is caused by the breakdown and eventual loss of the cartilage of one or more...
Picture of Fixed Drug Eruption
A large red-violet plaque on the arm of a child. See a picture of Fixed Drug Eruption and learn more about the health topic....
Picture of Cold Sores (Fever Blisters)
Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. See a picture of Cold...
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS): Track and Prevent Symptoms
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) can cause from mood swings, munchies, and more. Learn about the symptoms, causes and treatments of...
Leg Pain: Causes and Treatment for Leg, Calf, and Thigh Pain
Leg, calf and thigh pain are symptoms of conditions that may involve the muscles, nerves, and more. Sensations like tingling,...
Pain Management: 15 Easy Ways to Reduce Chronic Pain
Chronic pain can be a symptom of many conditions, including arthritis, headaches, and others. Comprehensive pain management...
Pain-Relief Tips for Bumps, Bruises, Sprains, and Strains in Pictures
View this First Aid slideshow on Care and Pain Relief. See how to get pain relief if you've bumped your head, sprained your...
Back Pain: Find Relief, Treat Your Back Pain
Back pain conditions are very common. Learn the truth and get the facts behind myths, remedies, causes and treatment for back...
Arthritis: Causes and Treatment for Joint Stiffness and Pain
Arthritis and injuries can leave your joints swollen, tender, and damaged. Discover treatments for morning stiffness, sore...
A Cold or The Flu? How to Tell the Difference
Learn common symptoms of a cold and the flu. Discover the difference between a cold and the flu. Read about cold and flu...
Back Pain: Tips for Traveling When You Have Back Pain
Don't let back or other pain keep you from your travel adventures. Try these tips to minimize discomfort during your next flight...
8 First Aid Kit Essentials for Scrapes, Cuts, Bug Bites, and More in Pictures
Are you always prepared for a first aid crisis? See which basic first aid items to pack to treat minor scrapes, cuts, and stings...
How to Relieve Sinus Pressure and Pain Naturally
What are sinuses? Sinus pressure and nasal congestion can cause pain and interfere with your daily life. Discover natural...
Cold, Fever and Flu Treatment in Children: Medications and Home Remedies
Colds and fevers are some of the most common ailments in children. Learn common cold symptoms, treatment options, over the...
Zika Virus Symptoms, Pregnancy, Treatments, Vaccine
A quick guide to the Zika virus, its causes, symptoms, and treatment options. Find out how Zika is transmitted by mosquitoes,...
Exercises for Osteoarthritis -- Yoga, Swimming, & More
Check out this slideshow on Active Living From Day to Night with Osteoarthritis. Even with arthritis you can keep your active...
Related Disease Conditions
Canker Sores
Canker sores are a common complaint, and are small ulcers on the inside of the mouth. Canker sores aren't contagious (as opposed...
Kidney Pain (Location, Symptoms, Relief)
Kidney pain has a variety of causes and symptoms. Infection, injury, trauma, bleeding disorders, kidney stones, and less common...
Sore Throat Home Remedies (Soothe, Pain Relief)
Natural and home remedies for sore throat symptoms and pain relief include essential oils, licorice gargles, slippery elm...
Inner Ear Infection (Symptoms, Signs, Treatments, Home Remedies)
An inner ear infection or otitis interna is caused by viruses or bacteria and can occur in both adults and children. An inner...
Upper Respiratory Tract Infection (URTI)
An upper respiratory infection is a contagious infection of the structures of the upper respiratory tract, which includes the...
Fever
Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not...
Headache
Headaches can be divided into two categories: primary headaches and secondary headaches. Migraine headaches, tension headaches,...
Hip Bursitis
Bursitis of the hip results when the fluid-filled sac (bursa) near the hip becomes inflamed due to localized soft tissue trauma...
Shoulder and Neck Pain
Shoulder and neck pain may be caused by bursitis, a pinched nerve, whiplash, tendinitis, a herniated disc, or a rotator cuff...
Shingles
Shingles, or herpes zoster, is a painful rash caused by the varicella zoster virus. Other shingles symptoms include headache,...
Sciatica
Sciatica pain, caused by irritation of the sciatic nerve, typically radiates from the low back to behind the thigh to below the...
Lower Back Pain
There are many causes of back pain. Pain in the low back can relate to the bony lumbar spine, discs between the vertebrae,...
Broken Toe
A broken toe is one of the most common fractures among individuals. There are many causes of a broken toe, whether it is the big...
Liver Disease Symptoms, Signs, Treatment, and Life Expectancy
Liver disease can be cause by a variety of things including infection (hepatitis), diseases, for example, gallstones, high...
Laryngitis
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the voice box (vocal cords). The most common cause of acute laryngitis is infection, which...
Teething
Teething in babies typically starts between 4 and 10 months of age. Symptoms and signs of cutting teeth include rash, drooling,...
Spider Bites (Black Widow and Brown Recluse)
Most spiders in the United States are harmless; however, black widow and brown recluse spider bites may need medical treatment....
Foot Pain
Foot pain may be caused by injuries (sprains, strains, bruises, and fractures), diseases (diabetes, Hansen disease, and gout),...
Night Sweats (In Men and Women) Causes, Remedies, and Treatments
Night sweats are severe hot flashes that occur at night and result in a drenching sweat. The causes of night sweats in most...
Gout (Gouty Arthritis)
Buildup of uric acid crystals in a joint causes gouty arthritis. Symptoms and signs include joint pain, swelling, heat, and...
Coccydynia (Tailbone Pain)
Coccydynia is an inflammation of the bony area (tailbone or coccyx) located between the buttocks. Coccydynia is associated with...
Broken Foot
A broken foot is a common injury. There are 26 bones in the foot, and these bones can be broken (fractured) in a variety of...
Temporomandibular Joint Syndrome (TMJ)
Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) syndrome is a disorder that causes symptoms like pain, clicking, and popping of the jaw. TMJ is...
Neck Pain (Cervical Pain)
Neck pain (cervical pain) may be caused by any number of disorders and diseases. Tenderness is another symptom of neck pain....
Arthritis
Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. When joints are inflamed they can develop stiffness, warmth, swelling, redness...
Tension Headache (Symptoms, Relief, Causes, Treatment)
A tension headache s one of the most common types of headaches, and the exact cause is not known. Factors that may contribute to...
Menstruation (Menstrual Cycle)
Menstruation (menstrual cycle) is also referred to as a "period." When a woman menstruates, the lining of the uterus is shed....
Cold Sores (Nongenital Herpes Simplex Infections)
Herpes simplex infections are common and when they appear around the mouth and lips, people often refer to them as "cold sores"...
Roseola
Roseola is a viral illness that most commonly affects young children. Symptoms and signs include a sudden high fever that lasts...
Osteoarthritis (OA)
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis caused by inflammation, breakdown, and eventual loss of cartilage in the joints. Also...
Knee Pain
Acute injuries, medical conditions, and chronic use conditions are causes of knee pain. Symptoms and signs that accompany knee...
Sinus Headache Pain, Symptoms, Treatments, Remedies, and Cures
Sinus headache is caused by a sinus infection or inflammation of the sinus cavities. Symptoms of a sinus headache include pain,...
Ear Infection Home Treatment
Infections of the outer, middle, and inner ear usually are caused by viruses. Most outer (swimmer's ear) and middle ear...
Common Cold
The common cold (viral upper respiratory tract infection) is a contagious illness that may be caused by various viruses. Symptoms...
Broken Finger
The most common causes of broken fingers are a traumatic injury to the finger or fingers such as playing sports, injury in the...
Hip Pain
Arthritis, bursitis, IT band syndrome, fracture, and strain are just some of the causes of hip pain. Associated symptoms and...
Toothache
A toothache is a pain on or around a tooth. It may be caused by a variety of things from a cavity, abscess, or even sinusitis....
Ankle Pain
Ankle pain is commonly due to a sprain or tendinitis. The severity of ankle sprains ranges from mild (which can resolve within...
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS)
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a combination of physical and emotional disturbances that occur after a woman ovulates and ends...
Swimmer&apos;s Ear (Symptoms, Pain Remedies, Treatment, Prevention)
Swimmer's ear (external otitis) is an infection of the skin that covers the outer ear canal. Causes of swimmer's ear include...
Coxsackievirus
Coxsackieviruses may be divided into two groups. Type A causes hand, foot, and mouth disease and conjunctivitis, while type B...
Dengue Fever
Dengue fever is contracted from the bite of a striped Aedes aegypti mosquito. Symptoms and signs of dengue include headache,...
Shoulder Bursitis
Shoulder bursitis is inflammation of the shoulder bursa. Bursitis may be caused by injury, infection, or a rheumatic condition....
Strep Throat (Treatment, Causes, Home Remedies)
Strep throat is a bacterial infection of the throat. Signs and symptoms of strep throat include headache, nausea, vomiting, sore...
Hamstring Injury
Hamstring injuries may range from minor strains to major ruptures. A hamstring injury causes spasm, tightness, and tenderness....
Knee Bursitis
Bursitis of the knee results when any of the three fluid-filled sacs (bursae) become inflamed due to injury or strain. Symptoms...
Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom teeth are the third set of molars that people get in their late teens or early twenties. Impacted wisdom teeth that only...
Migraine vs. Headache: Differences and Similarities
Headaches are the most common reason why a person goes to the doctor or other healthcare professional for treatment. There are...
Mumps
Mumps is an acute viral illness caused by the mumps virus. Symptoms of mumps include fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness,...
Tylenol Liver Damage
Tylenol liver damage (acetaminophen) can occur from accidentally ingesting too much acetaminophen, or intentionally. Signs and...
Herniated Disc
A herniated disc may be caused by injury or degeneration from age. Symptoms depend on the location of the herniation and whether...
Chickenpox (Varicella)
Chickenpox (chicken pox) is a contagious childhood disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus. Symptoms have an incubation...
Hemophilia
Hemophilia is defined as one of a group of inherited bleeding disorders. Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an...
Croup Sounds, Symptoms, Causes, Remedies, and Treatments
Croup is a contagious viral infection that affects children's respiratory system. Symptoms include a barking cough, stridor,...
Mastoiditis (Symptoms, Treatment, Cure in Adults and Children
Mastoiditis in children and adults is inflammation and/or infection of the mastoid bone, which is located behind the ear. The...
Measles
Measles (rubeola) is a highly contagious disease that's caused by a virus. Symptoms include a rash, high fever, cough, runny...
Trigeminal Neuralgia
Pain that originates in the face is referred to as trigeminal neuralgia. This pain may be caused by: an injury, an infection...
Pain Management
Pain management and treatment can be simple or complex, according to its cause. There are two basic types of pain, nociceptive...
Sunburn (Sun Poisoning) Symptoms, Pain Relief, Healing Time
Sunburn is caused by overexposure to UV radiation from the sun. UV rays can also damage the eyes. Repeated overexposure to UV...
Labyrinthitis (Inner Ear Inflammation) Symptoms, Causes, Contagious, Treatment Cure
Labyrinthitis is inflammation of the labyrinth (the part of the ear responsible for balance and hearing). Doctors do not know...
Elbow Pain
Elbow pain is most often the result of tendinitis, which can affect the inner or outer elbow. Treatment includes ice, rest, and...
Broken Bone (Types of Bone Fractures)
A broken bone is a fracture. There are different types of fractures, such as: compressed, open, stress, greenstick,...
Sprains and Strains
An injury to a ligament is called a sprain, and an injury to muscle or tendon is called a strain. Sprains and strains may be...
Chronic Pain
Chronic pain is pain (an unpleasant sense of discomfort) that persists or progresses over a long period of time. In contrast to...
Whiplash
Whiplash is a common injury to a person's neck following a car accident (in most cases). Symptoms include: headache, neck...
Cold and Cough Medicine for Infants and Children
The safety of giving infants and children over-the-counter (OTC) cold and cough medicine is important for caregivers to...
Migraines and Seizures (Symptoms, Auras, Medication)
Migraines are a type of headache and seizures are the main symptom of epilepsy. Migraine headaches and seizures are two...
Shingles and Pregnancy
Becoming infected with chickenpox during pregnancy could cause birth defects in your unborn child. Likewise, shingles could also...
Menstrual Cramps
Menstrual cramps (pain in the belly and pelvic area) are experienced by women as a result of menses. Menstrual cramps are not the...
Smallpox
Smallpox is a disease caused by the variola virus. Symptoms and signs include: a characteristic rash and high fever. Treatment...
Shin Splints
Shin splints result from inflammation from injury to the tendon and adjacent tissues in the front of the outer leg. Shin splints...
Rotator Cuff Disease
Rotator cuff disease is damage to any of the four tendons that stabilize the shoulder joint. Shoulder pain and tenderness are...
Cocaine and Crack Abuse
Cocaine is an addictive stimulant that is smoked, snorted, and injected. Crack is cocaine that comes in a rock crystal that is...
Medial Collateral Ligament (MCL) Injury
The medial collateral ligament (MCL) is one of four ligaments that stabilize the knee. MCL injuries are referred to as tears or...
Cold, Flu, Allergy Treatments
Before treating a cold, the flu, or allergies with over-the-counter (OTC) medications, it's important to know what's causing the...
Braces and Retainers
Find out more about how orthodontic braces and retainers can provide proper alignment to crooked teeth. Get information about the...
Menstrual Cramps and Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) Medication Guide
Menstrual cramps and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms include abdominal cramping, bloating, a feeling of fullness, abdominal...
Dental Injuries
Dental injuries range from a chipped or fractured tooth to a knocked out tooth. Treatment depends upon the severity of the dental...
Cold vs. Flu
Though the common cold and flu share many signs and symptoms, they are caused by different viruses. Signs and symptoms include...
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a highly contagious viral infection. Symptoms include fever and nasal congestion and...
Laryngitis Home Remedies (in Adults and Children)
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the larynx. Inflammation of the larynx is most often caused by viral infections, and have...
Bug Bites and Stings
Bug bites and stings have been known to transmit insect-borne illnesses such as West Nile virus, Rocky Mountain spotted fever,...
Reye Syndrome
Reye's syndrome (RS or Reye syndrome) is a sudden, sometimes fatal, disease of the brain with degeneration of the liver. Reye...
Migraine and Stroke (Symptoms, Types, Causes, Treatment)
Migraine headache is a type of headache in which the exact cause is not known; however, they may be inherited, and certain...
German Measles (Rubella)
German measles is a disease that's caused by a virus. Symptoms include rash and fever for two to three days. The MMR (measles,...
Sever Condition
Sever condition is an inflammation of the growth plate of the bone at the back of the heel where the Achilles tendon attaches....
Diabetes - Safe Drugs for Colds and the Flu
If you have diabetes and catch a cold or the flu, can be more difficult to recover from infections and their complications, for...
Treatment & Diagnosis
Procedures & Tests Symptoms & Signs FAQs & Doctor's Views
Liver Blood Tests (Normal, Low, and High Ranges & Results)
Sinus Surgery Procedure
Tonsillectomy and Adenoidectomy Surgical Instructions
Mohs Surgery
Nasal Airway Surgery (Septoplasty) and Turbinectomy
Dental Implants
Trigger Point Injection
Hysteroscopy Surgery
Spinal Fusion
Rectal Pain
Toe Pain
Hand Pain
Finger Pain
Buttock Pain
Groin Pain
Arm Pain
Joint Pain
Wrist Pain
Chills
Ankle Pain
Stiff Neck
Foot Pain
Sore Tongue
Joint Cracking (Joint Popping)
Hip Pain
Swollen Ankles and/or Swollen Feet
Elbow Pain
Shoulder Pain
Coccydynia
Colitis
Toothache
Joint Stiffness
Painful Gums
Jaw Pain
Unsteady Gait
Limping
Tightness in Chest
Menstrual Cramps
Headache
Heel Pain
Knee Pain
Neck Pain (Cervicalgia)
Swollen Joints
Joint Redness
Kidney Stone
Fever
Infectious Mononucleosis (Mono)
Sore Throat (Pharyngitis)
Dengue
Peripheral Neuropathy
Laryngitis
Upper Respiratory Infection
Chronic Pain
Common Cold
Joint Deformity
Chronic Sore Throat
Pancreatitis
Mumps
Enthesitis
Measles (Rubeola)
Migraine
Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease
Doctor: Checklist to Take To Your Doctor's Appointment
Pericoronitis
Zika Virus Infection
Osteoarthritis
West Nile Virus
Burn
Rubella (German Measles)
Enterovirus (Non-Polio Enterovirus Infection)
Impingement Syndrome
Croup
Encephalitis
Cold & Flu FAQs
Headaches FAQs
Back Pain FAQs
Pain FAQs
Chickenpox FAQs
Strep Streptococcal Throat Infection FAQs
Propofol (Diprivan) Safety
Swine Flu Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Vaccination
Dangers of Mixing Medications
Medication Disposal
Drugs: The Most Common Medication Errors
Tylenol Toxicity
Pain Management Over-The-Counter
Prescriptions: Complying with the Doctor's Orders
Drug Interactions: Know Ingredients, Consult Your Physician
How To Reduce Your Medication Costs
Pharmacy Visit, How To Get The Most Out of Your Visit
Indications for Drugs: Approved vs. Non-approved
Pain (Acute and Chronic)
Drugs: Buying Prescription Drugs Online Safely
Swine Flu: One New York City Pediatrician's View
What to Do in a Drug Recall
Kidney Infections During Pregnancy
Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis
Home Remedies for Shingles
Can Children Get Erythema Nodosum?
Is Reye Syndrome Less Common than It Used to Be?
Why Is It Called Reye's Syndrome?
Osteoarthritis of the Hands
Home Remedies, Treatment, and Prevention of Sprains and Strains
When to Call the Doctor for Fever, Nausea, Diarrhea, Colds, and Coughs
Bug Bite Treatment
Pain Relievers and High Blood Pressure
Generic Drugs, Are They as Good as Brand-Names?
Medications & Supplements
Medications FDA Drug Labels on RxList.com
Acetaminophen vs. Ibuprofen for Pain (Differences in Side Effects and Dosage)
tramadol and acetaminophen (Ultracet)
Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen, Roxicet, Tylox, Oxycet)
Drugs: Questions to Ask Your Doctor or Pharmacist about Your Drugs
Drug Interactions
hydrocodone/acetaminophen (Vicodin, Norco)
Oxycodone vs. Vicodin (hydrocodone/acetaminophen) for Pain
butalbital/acetaminophen/caffeine (Esgic, Fioricet)
butalbital/acetaminophen/caffeine (Alagesic LQ, Capacet, Dolgic Plus, Esgic, Fioricet, and Others)
Aspirin vs. Tylenol (acetaminophen)
OTC Pain Relievers and Fever Reducers
propoxyphene and acetaminophen, Darvocet A500; Darvocet-N, Wygesic
expectorant/decongestant/narcotic antitussive/acetaminophen-oral
isometheptene, acetaminophen, dichloralphenazone - oral, Amidrine, Isocom, Midchlor, Mi
acetaminophen/phenyltoloxamine-oral, Dologesic, Flextra-650, Novagesic, Rhinoflex, Staflex
butalbital/acetaminophen - oral, Phrenilin
salicylamide/acetaminophen/phenyltoloxamine - oral, Anabar, Dolorex, Lobac
dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera)
pentazocine/acetaminophen - oral, Talacen
decongestant/narcotic antitussive/acetaminoph/antihistamine - oral
Tylenol-Codeine
Ilaris
Uloric
Tylenol
Synagis
Prevention & Wellness
Health News Healthy Living Health Features
More Infant Ibuprofen Recalled Due to Higher Concentrations
Pfizer Recalls a Type of Children's Advil
As U.S. Kids Take More Meds, Dangerous Drug Mixes Could Rise
Non-Opioids Often Underused After Back Surgery
Fighting a Cold or Flu? Beware of Overdosing on Tylenol
Acetaminophen in Pregnancy Tied to Language Delays -- in One Sex
Many Migraine Sufferers Given Unecessary Opioids, Study Finds
Medication Mistakes Have Doubled in U.S. Since 2000: Study
When Is an Opioid Safe to Take?
Marathon Running May Cause Short-Term Kidney Injury
Fewer U.S. Kids Overdosing on Opioids
Spring-Clean Your Medicine Cabinet to Safeguard Your Kids
Kids' OD Risk Rises When Opioids Left Out at Home
Try Drug-Free Options First for Low Back Pain, New Guidelines Say
Common Painkillers Don't Ease Back Pain, Study Finds
Kids Born to Opioid-Addicted Moms Seem to Fare Poorly in School
Many Misuse OTC Sleep Aids: Survey
Everyday Pain Relievers May Be Linked to Hearing Loss in Some Women
Drug Use by U.S. Teens Drops to All-Time Low
Self-Harm a Cause of Death During Pregnancy and for New Moms
Number of Americans With Severe Joint Pain Keeps Rising
Countless Opioid Pills Unused by Dental-Surgery Patients
Nanoparticles Ease Aching Joints in Mice
Codeine Not Safe for Kids, Pediatricians Warn
Health Tip: Preparing for Baby's First Teeth
Non-addictive Painkiller Shows Promise in Animal Trials
Kids With Mild Asthma Can Take Acetaminophen: Study
Acetaminophen and Pregnancy: Bad Mix?
Acetaminophen During Pregnancy May Up Risk of ADHD in Kids
Fentanyl-Laced 'Norco' Is Lethal, Report Warns
New Guidelines Issued for Cancer Patients' Post-Treatment Pain
Opioid Abusers Missing Out on Addiction-Fighting Drug
Tai Chi: Rx for Arthritic Knees
Health Tip: Watch Medication Use During Pregnancy
More People Surviving Sudden Liver Failure
Nearly All U.S. Doctors 'Overprescribe' Addictive Narcotic Painkillers: Survey
Infant Ear Infections Becoming Less Common
Acetaminophen Won't Help Arthritis Pain, Study Finds
Health Tip: Managing a Fever at Home
Prenatal Acetaminophen Use Tied to Higher Asthma Risk in Kids: Study
Many Chronic Pain Sufferers May Overuse Nonprescription Painkillers
No Antibiotics for Common Respiratory Infections: Experts
Acetaminophen Tops List of Accidental Infant Poisonings
Did Painkiller Crackdown Cause Heroin Epidemic?
Try Home Remedies for Child's Cough or Cold
Hawaii Facing Rise in Dengue Fever Cases
Prepare Yourself for Cold, Flu Season
Prescription Naproxen as Good as Narcotic Painkillers for Low Back Pain: Study
Kids' ER Visits for Medicine Overdoses Dropping: Report
Searing Heat, High Humidity a Threat to Your Health
Prescription Meds: Too Common in Pregnancy?
Antidepressant, Painkiller Combo May Raise Risk of Brain Bleed
Many Migraine Sufferers Given Narcotic Painkillers, Barbiturates
Do Certain Medicines Raise Murder Risk?
Many Americans Under 50 Living With Cold Sore Virus
Teens With History of Self-Poisoning Face Greater Suicide Risk
Could Taking Acetaminophen Dull Your Happiness?
Ear Infections Common, But Often Missed, in Infants
Study Casts Doubt on Acetaminophen for Low Back Pain, Arthritis
Health Tip: Don't Mix Meds and Alcohol
Does Long-Term Acetaminophen Use Raise Health Risks?
Morphine After Tonsillectomy Tied to Breathing Problems in Study
Study Rates Migraine Medications
Tips for Steering Clear of Flu
Knee Arthritis Drugs Beat Placebos, but Study Finds No Clear Winner
No Link Between Acetaminophen in Pregnancy, Asthma in Kids: Study
Some Painkillers Tied to Bleeding Risk in Those With Abnormal Heartbeat
Placebo Treatment May Quiet Kids' Cough
Circumcision Past Newborn Stage Poses Risk for Boys, Study Finds
Doctors' Group Issues Painkiller Guidelines
Kids Prescribed Antibiotics Twice as Often as Needed, Study Finds
Acetaminophen May Not Help Against Back Pain, Study Contends
Tips for Beating BBQ Burns
Chikungunya Virus: Questions and Answers
Use Prescription Painkillers Safely
Taking Blood Thinners With Certain Painkillers May Raise Bleeding Risk
More ERs Treating Headaches With Narcotics, Study Finds
Use of Tylenol in Pregnancy Tied to Higher ADHD Risk in Child
Daily Aspirin May Guard Against Ovarian Cancer
Hand Washing, Zinc May Ward Off Colds: Review
Health Tip: Coping With Strep Throat
FDA Warns Against Prescription Drugs With High Levels of Acetaminophen
Health Tip: Don't Take Too Much Acetaminophen
Health Tip: Keep a First Aid Kit in the Car
Acetaminophen and Alcohol a Bad Mix, Study Suggests
Tylenol and Alcohol a Bad Mix, Study Suggests
FDA OKs New Hydrocodone Painkiller
After Tonsillectomy, Over-the-Counter Painkillers Suffice, Study Says
Weight-Loss Surgery May Add to Painkiller Dependence, Study Says
Opioids Not Winning the Battle Against Pain, Study Suggests
Health Highlights: Aug. 30, 2013
Most Medications OK During Breast-Feeding, Report Says
FDA Warns of Rare Skin Reactions to Acetaminophen
Docs Order Too Many Narcotics, Pricey Scans for Back Pain: Study
Tylenol-Induced Liver Failure Presents Own Set of Problems: Study
Most Pregnant Women Treated for Migraines Able to Deliver Vaginally
Daily Aspirin Linked to Lower Risk for Deadly Skin Cancer in Women
Codeine Risky for Kids After Certain Surgeries, FDA Says
Medical Marijuana: Voodoo or Legitimate Therapeutic Choice?
Doubling Up on Cold, Flu Remedies May Harm Liver
Common Painkillers Tied to Kidney Risks for Children: Study
Painkillers Before Exercise May Be Bad for the Gut
Health Tip: Make Sure Kids Get Enough Water
Health Tip: Treating Bronchitis
Health Tip: Managing Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Pain
Health Tip: Don't Combine Medication and Alcohol
'Where Is My Excedrin?'
'Excellent' Survival Seen for Liver Transplant From Live Donor
When Prescription Drugs Go OTC, Ads Talk Less of Harms: Study
Common Painkillers May Be Risky After Heart Attack
Health Tip: Caring for an Ingrown Toenail
Steroids Won't Ease Most Sinusitis Attacks, Study Finds
The Health Benefits, and Risks, of Alcohol
'Abuse-Resistant' Oxycontin May Be Driving Addicts to Heroin
Tylenol Overdose Can Be Deadly for a Child
Scientists Spot More Migraine Genes
Many Americans Taking Too Much Acetaminophen
Patients May Receive Too Much Acetaminophen in Hospital
Health Tip: Caring for a Sunburn
Health Highlights: April 19, 2012
Taking Multivitamins Won't Prevent Canker Sores, Study Says
Antibiotics Do Not Reduce Symptoms of Sinus Infection
Epidural Plus Fever in Mom May Raise Risks for Baby
IV Acetaminophen Linked to More Child Overdoses
Bufferin, Excedrin, NoDoz, Gas-X Recalled
Spinal Manipulation, Home Exercise May Ease Neck Pain
Infant Acetaminophen Dosage Change May Cause Confusion
Infants May Sleep Better When Vaccinated in Afternoon
Too Much Acetaminophen Over Time May Damage Liver
Maggots May Help Heal Hard-to-Treat Wounds
NSAIDs May Raise Miscarriage Risk: Study
Supplement May Ease Pain of Hand Osteoarthritis
New Dosing Labels for Extra Strength Tylenol
New Tylenol Recall Due to Musty Odor
Health Tip: Ease Neck Pain
FDA Panel: Correct Acetaminophen Dose Depends on Kids' Weight
The 10 Most Prescribed Drugs
Acetaminophen in Pregnancy: Link to Baby's Asthma?
Johnson & Johnson Recalls Even More Tylenol
Tylenol Products Recalled
FDA Warns of Acetaminophen in Prescription Pain Drugs
Rolaids Recalled
Acetaminophen: Teen Asthma Trigger?
Tylenol Recall Grows Again
FDA: Manufacturing Problems Led to Tylenol Recall
Recall of Kids' Tylenol, Motrin, Zyrtec, Benadryl
Pain Relievers May Reduce Cancer Risk
Pregnancy: 17 Things to Buy for Your Newborn
10 Ways to Manage Low Back Pain at Home
Living with Chronic Pain
12 Tips for Family Emergencies
On the Teen Scene: When Mono Takes You Out of the Action
Sleep Better When You're Sick
Drug Name Confusion: Preventing Medication Errors
Tylenol: Children's TYLENOL® Meltaways and SoftChews Recalled
Children's Motrin Recall Alert
Pain Relievers Use Caution
Subscribe to MedicineNet's General Health Newsletter
By clicking Submit, I agree to the MedicineNet's Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet's subscriptions at any time.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration
You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
See more info: acetaminophen on RxList
Medically Reviewed on 6/19/2018
References
Reference: FDA Prescribing Information
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth