How Effective is Minoxidil for Hair Loss? | Top Hair Loss Treatments
Skip to navigation Skip to content
Menu
Articles
Hair Transplants
Alternative Treatments
Future Treatments
Natural Treatments
Prescription Drugs
Supplements
Topical Treatments
Forum
Log in
Articles
Hair Transplants
Alternative Treatments
Future Treatments
Natural Treatments
Prescription Drugs
Supplements
Topical Treatments
Forum
Log in
Posted on July 18, 2016 March 4, 2019 by Top Hair Loss Treatments — 5 Comments
How Effective is Minoxidil for Hair Loss?
Minoxidil – more commonly known by the brand name Rogaine – is the only topically-applied hair loss treatment approved by the FDA. Various trials have shown it to be effective at regrowing hair. However, no one actually knows how it works and doubts have been raised about how effective it is in the long term. So is it worth buying? Does it really work for hair loss?
What is minoxidil?
Minoxidil is a topical hair restoration agent.
First approved in 1988 to treat androgenetic alopecia (male pattern hair loss), the drug was originally prescribed in oral form to treat high blood pressure. After noticing unexpected hair growth in patients, the drug was trialed to treat hair loss. When these trials proved successful, Rogaine was approved by the FDA for this use.
Since then, the patent for Rogaine has expired and manufacturers are now free to produce generic formulations of minoxidil. Typically, these will be 5% concentration, although 2% solutions are also available.
Available in liquid, foam, and spray forms, minoxidil is applied to the scalp twice daily – once in the morning and once at night. For maximum effect, it should be left on the scalp for at least four hours before being washed out.
Like most hair loss treatments, minoxidil will only work for as long as you use it. As soon as you stop taking it, hair loss will return to how it was before.
How does it work?
Despite being FDA approved to treat hair loss, nobody is entirely sure how minoxidil actually works.
Currently, science says that the hormone dihydrotestosterone (DHT) binds to hair follicles and causes them to shrink. This is why DHT-reducing drugs such as finasteride are effective at slowing and reversing hair loss.
But minoxidil has no effect on DHT levels.
As minoxidil is a vasodilator, some claim that its hair-regrowing effects are due to increased blood flow. However, the link between hair loss and blood flow is disputed.
Recent discoveries may shed light on to the mystery of minoxidil however. A recent Top Hair Loss Treatments article described the importance of prostaglandins in hair growth and androgenetic alopecia. And this paper proposes that prostaglandin activation (specifically PGE2) may explain the hair growth-stimulating properties of minoxidil.
For now, though, the exact mechanism by which it regrows hair is disputed.
So how effective is minoxidil?
Even after the initial trials of minoxidil, the FDA concluded that the product will not work for everyone.
And this more recent trial gives an idea of its effectiveness:
“Clinical response to 5% topical minoxidil for the treatment of androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is typically observed after 3-6 months. Approximately 40% of patients will regrow hair.“
This is still a somewhat impressive statistic. It is far more difficult to regrow hair than it is to maintain.
Of course, there are different strengths, dosages, and methods of adminstration with minoxidil. Broadly, though, it is dose dependent, with higher concentrations producing better results than lower concentrations. This study found:
“In men with AGA, 5% topical minoxidil was clearly superior to 2% topical minoxidil and placebo in increasing hair regrowth, and the magnitude of its effect was marked (45% more hair regrowth than 2% topical minoxidil at week 48). Men who used 5% topical minoxidil also had an earlier response to treatment than those who used 2% topical minoxidil.”
Despite the ability of minoxidil to regrow hair, it is not likely to be effective at maintaining it as it does not tackle the root cause: DHT.
As a standalone treatment minoxidil will not prevent DHT from binding to hair follicles and shrinking them. However it works, it doesn’t appear to slow the cumulative damage caused by hormones.
But when used in conjunction with other medications – such as finasteride or dutasteride – it can produce some seriously impressive results. In some cases, patients may see significant and lasting regrowth.
Patient hair regrowth from minoxidil and finasteride combination
Side effects of minoxidil
Because minoxidil is applied topically, rather than ingested, it is generally quite safe.
However, commonly reported side effects include:
Itching, redness, or irritation of the treated and surrounding areas
Dry scalp
Dandruff
Unwanted hair growth elsewhere
More severe side effects include tachycardia (increased heart rate), chest pain, dizziness, fainting, and swollen hands and feet.
Summary
Unsurprisingly, minoxidil is no miracle hair loss cure.
For some users it can lead to dramatically improved hair – at least initially. For others, it has no effect or actually makes hair worse than before.
Like all drugs, it has its advantages and disadvantages:
Advantages:
Regrows hair for many (~40%) of users
Different mechanism of action means it can be used in conjunction with other treatments for better results
Minimal side effects
Low cost
Disadvantages:
Doesn’t tackle the underlying cause of hair loss (DHT)
Some formulas can be messy to apply
Doesn’t work for everyone
If you do decide to try it out, my advice would be don’t rely on minoxidil alone.
Though you may see an initial improvement with minoxidil only, the hair loss process will still continue if the underlying hormonal causes are not addressed. For this reason, minoxidil is best used in conjunction with other proven hair loss treatments.
See Minoxidil reviews and success stories in the forum!
Categories: Minoxidil, Topicals
Post navigation
Previous post: Is Prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) the Key to Curing Hair Loss?
Next post: Do Sulfates in Shampoo Cause Hair Loss?
5 thoughts on “How Effective is Minoxidil for Hair Loss?”
Mark challoner
August 30, 2017
I am having lazer treatment they have gave me scalp prescription with ingredients ALCOHOL AQUA PROPYLENE GLYCOL MINOXIDIUM plus tablets which are hair vitamins
Reply
CJ
September 29, 2017
Problem with minoxidil is even as you’re regrowing hair since it doesn’t address DHT…. over time you’re technically still balding so if you ever stop minoxidil, you’ll go to where you would be if you never took it at all which will be rapid hair loss and you’ll soon find yourself getting a hair transplant.
It’s better to address DHT to stop the hair loss and see regrowth that will stay longer term. If you stop DHT reducing practice, you’ll start to lose hair but it will be as if it just started… it won’t be a radical amount of hair loss all at once.
Reply
Stan
December 8, 2017
Thank you so much. Makes sense.
Reply
Alex
December 29, 2017
Finasteride will cause breast development and sexual impairment. Don’t mess with hormones!
Reply
Brian Banda
January 27, 2018
where can I get ths minoxidil I’m from Zimbabwe
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Search for:
Articles
Articles Select Category Alternative Treatments Diet Sugar Future Treatments CB0301 Hair Cloning JAK Inhibitors SM04554 Hair Transplants Celebrity Hair Transplants Actors Ben Affleck Bradley Cooper James Nesbitt Jeremy Piven Joel McHale Jude Law Matthew McConaughey Steve Carell Steven Seagal Sylvester Stallone Musicians Chris Martin Robbie Williams Tyga Other Celebrities Elon Musk Jordan Peterson Kim Kardashian Logan Paul Mario Falcone Mark Wright Rich Piana Politicians Donald Trump Sports Stars Antonio Conte Cesc Fabregas David Beckham Lewis Hamilton Rafael Nadal Slaven Bilic Wayne Rooney Hormones/Endocrine Xenoestrogens LLLT Mechanotherapy Natural Treatments Prescription Drugs Dutasteride Finasteride PRP Scalp Micropigmentation Shampoos Supplements Biotin Pumpkin Seed Oil Resveratrol Saw Palmetto Vitamin D Topicals Azelaic Acid Minoxidil RU58841 Toxins Plastics Uncategorized
Latest Articles
What is the Best Finasteride Dose for Hair Loss? 1mg? 0.5mg? 0.25mg? July 13, 2018
Is Olive Oil Good For Hair Loss? (Oleuropein) June 6, 2018
Quercetin for Hair Loss: Natural PGD2 Inhibitor May 4, 2018
87% Hair Regrowth from Onion Juice? April 10, 2018
Pygeum Africanum: Natural DHT Blocker and Hair Loss Treatment? February 17, 2018
How Excess Sugar Can Accelerate Hair Loss January 10, 2018
Recent Forum Topics
Hafthor Bjornsson Hair Transplantby Top Hair Loss Treatments1 month ago
The Real Cause of Hair Lossby Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Full Hair Regrowth with Dutasteri …by Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Cassiopea Announces Breezula (CB0 …by Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Scalp Massage Mega Thread! Result …by Top Hair Loss Treatments5 months ago
Recent Forum Posts
0.5mg Propecia Dose Results?by Guest4 weeks ago
Hafthor Bjornsson Hair Transplantby Top Hair Loss Treatments1 month ago
The Real Cause of Hair Lossby Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Full Hair Regrowth with Dutasteri …by Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Cassiopea Announces Breezula (CB0 …by Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Scalp Massage Mega Thread! Result …by Top Hair Loss Treatments5 months ago
Notice: JavaScript is required for this content.
Recent Articles
What is the Best Finasteride Dose for Hair Loss? 1mg? 0.5mg? 0.25mg?
Is Olive Oil Good For Hair Loss? (Oleuropein)
Quercetin for Hair Loss: Natural PGD2 Inhibitor
87% Hair Regrowth from Onion Juice?
Pygeum Africanum: Natural DHT Blocker and Hair Loss Treatment?
How Excess Sugar Can Accelerate Hair Loss
Cetirizine for Hair Loss: Are Antihistamines a Cure for Baldness?
Taurine for Hair Loss: More Effective Than Propecia?
Medical Trial Proves Pumpkin Seed Oil is an Effective Hair Loss Treatment
The Link Between Pattern Hair Loss and Fibrosis (Collagen)
Recent Forum Posts
0.5mg Propecia Dose Results?by Guest4 weeks ago
Hafthor Bjornsson Hair Transplantby Top Hair Loss Treatments1 month ago
The Real Cause of Hair Lossby Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Full Hair Regrowth with Dutasteri …by Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Cassiopea Announces Breezula (CB0 …by Top Hair Loss Treatments2 months ago
Scalp Massage Mega Thread! Result …by Top Hair Loss Treatments5 months ago
© Top Hair Loss Treatments 2016
{{{ data.beforeFields }}}
<# /* * Render our error section if we have an error. */ #>
<# /* * Render any custom HTML after our field. */ #> {{{ data.afterField }}}
<# /* * Render our Description Text. */ #> {{{ data.renderDescText() }}}
{{{ data.renderElement() }}}