This Common (and Curable) Health Concern Might Be Why You're Always Tired
Home
Entryway
Living Room
Kitchen
Dining Room
Bedrooms
Bathroom
Children's Room & Nursery
Decor & Trends
Organization
Food
Breakfast
Lunch
Dinner
Appetizers
Dessert
Drinks
Entertaining
Wellness
Self-Care
Love & Dating
Friendships
Our Picks
Product Reviews
Gift Guide
FACEBOOK
PINTEREST
EMAILSHARE
Wellness
Self-Care
This Common (and Curable) Health Concern Might Be Why You're Always Tired
by Hadley Mendelsohn
Updated 05/05/17
FACEBOOK
PINTEREST
EMAILSHARE
According to the World Health Organization, iron deficiencies are the most common nutritional afflictions on the planet. Untreated, an iron deficiency can develop into anemia, a medical condition in which red blood cell count is lower than it should be. While there are several different types of anemia, we're going to focus on iron deficiency anemia today since about 30% of women in the U.S. have been diagnosed with. It's super common in women who have a low-iron diet as well as women who have heavy periods.
The severity of these conditions varies from person to person, but common symptoms include feeling weak, dizzy, or lightheaded; being extraordinarily pale and tired; and having a rapid heart rate. Aside from taking iron mineral supplements, you can also adjust your dietary habits. In fact, eating iron-rich meals will help prevent and even treat anemia. With this in mind, we researched the top iron-rich foods and sourced some delicious meals that include them so it's easier for you to meet your nutritional needs. Scroll through to get the full details for six carnivore- and vegetarian-friendly options.
For Breakfast: A Pineapple and Spinach Green Smoothie
Foodie Crush
This green smoothie from Foodie Crush is packed to the brim with immunity- and iron-boosting ingredients. Specifically, it calls for spinach (a very iron-rich green) as well kale, ginger, pineapple, and mango. It's perfectly sweet, too, so not a bad way to start the day.
For a Vegetarian Lunch: Lentil Bowl With Tahini Cream
The First Mess
Lentils are a tasty and versatile option if you have low iron levels, since they have 37% of your daily value. This is especially valuable if you're a vegetarian. Make this black lentil bowl recipe from The First Mess for a satisfying and delicious lunch. It's full of nutritional and colorful veggies like carrots, beets (which are also iron-rich, as we mentioned before), avocados, Romanesco broccoli, and apples. It's pretty much a rainbow in a bowl.
For a Meaty Lunch: Carne Asada Burrito Bowl
Spoon Fork Bacon
Beef contains 31% of your daily value of iron, so if you love meat, this news should make you happy. This carne asada beef bowl recipe from Spoon Fork Bacon also calls for onions, avocados, cherry tomatoes, and brown rice, so it'll leave you happy and full. Just add a squeeze of time!
For a Snack: Roasted Beet Hummus Dip
Minimalist Baker
Beets are another iron-rich veggie to include in your diet if you're worried about developing anemia. Plus, they boast a vivid magenta hue, making them ideal for a spread of goodies at a party. This beet hummus dip from Minimalist Baker is a great afternoon snack to nibble on if you get hungry between meals.
For a Fish Dinner: Coconut and Green Curry Clams
Spoon Fork Bacon
If you want to switch things up from chicken and beef, clams are a great way to meet your iron and lean-protein needs. In fact, they contain more iron than beef. This aromatic and sweet curry recipe from Spoon Fork Bacon is a flavorful delight. It's also great for summer because the lemongrass makes it refreshing, with some added balanced from its spicy undertones and creamy broth.
For a Vegetation Dinner: Crispy Tofu and Cauliflower Stir-Fry
Minimalist Baker
This recipe from Minimalist Baker yields a heavenly batch of crispy peanut tofu that sits atop a bed of cauliflower rice. Not only does it hit the spot flavor wise, but this recipe is also a great option for vegetarians because the tofu, peanuts, and cauliflower all have iron in them.
If you're iron deficient and you have any healthy living tips, please share them with us in the comment section below.
Crate and Barrel Smeg Red Retro Blender $250
Shop
Ritual Essential for Women $30
Shop
21 Drops PMS Essential Oil $29
Shop
Related Stories
Why You're Always Tired and How to Get Your Energy Back
This Is Why You're Always Tired (and How to Fix It)
Born Under the Leo Sign? This Is Why You're So Confident
Psst… Here Are 21 Foods High in Iron a Dietitian Reaches for on the Regular
The High-Protein, Low-Carbohydrate Food We Want to Eat All Week
Here's What Happens to Your Body When You Don't Get Enough Potassium
This Is Exactly What Vegans Should Eat in 24 Hours, Says a Dietitian
This Healthy Food "Consistently Interferes With Hormones," Says a Doctor
6 Symptoms That Point to a Magnesium Deficiency (and How to Treat It)
8 Delicious Foods to Eat While Pregnant (and What to Avoid)
Find Out Which Foods Cause High Cholesterol (and What to Eat Instead)
A Nutritionist on How to Follow a Low-Carb Vegetarian Diet
This Doctor Is a Blood Type Expert—These Are the Foods He'd Never Cook With
You Can Balance Hormones, Brighten Skin, and Boost Mood With This 1 Diet
L.A. vs. NYC—Real Girls Share What They Actually Eat in 24 Hours
Question: Is Quinoa or Farro Better for You?
We send good emails.
Email Address
Subscribe
Thank you [email] for signing up.
Please enter a valid email address.
Home
Food
Wellness
Our Picks
About Us
Advertise
Terms Of Use
Careers
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Contact
MyDomaine is part of the Dotdash publishing family.
Byrdie
The Spruce
TripSavvy
VeryWell Family
and more