Chocolate - Healthy Body
Log in
x
Sign In
Remember Me
Log in
Register
Facebook
Twitter
Send
Search
Home
Food & Diet
Food groups
Dairy products
Cheese
Milk
Yogurt
Cereals
Eggs
Legumes
Fruits
Acai Berry
Apple
Avocado
Durian
Pomegranate
Reishi Mushrooms
Fats & Oils
Canola Oil
Flaxseed Oil
Macadamia Nut Oil
Olive oil
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Sunflower Oil
Sugars
Chocolate
Vegetables
Cucumber
Garlic
Potato
Tomato
Beverage
Beer
Wine
Meat
Seafood
Fish
Nutrition
Nutrients
Carbohydrates
Fat
Fiber
Minerals
Calcium
Iron
Chromium
Potassium
Selenium
Zinc
Protein
Vitamins
Vitamin A
Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B9
Vitamin B12
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Vitamin K
Water
Food additives
How Our Body Works
Nutrition facts label
Diet
Mediterranean Diet
The vegetarian mediterranean
Herbs
Aloe vera
Garlic
Ginkgo Biloba
Ginseng
Moringa
Oregano
Peppermint
Food as medicine
Antioxidants
Cardiovascular disease
Diabetes
Digestive disorders
Heartburn
High blood pressure
Respiratory disorders
Top 15 super foods
Body cleanse
Organic food
Raw Food
Fasts and Cleanses
Food Handling and Storage
Raw in the Real World
Soaking and Sprouting
Vegetarian diet
Weight loss
Weight Loss Pills
Acai Berry Actives
Acai Berry Select
Caralluma Actives
Goji Berry Advance
Hoodia Gordonii Plus
Maqui Berry Select
Nutrition Forskolin
ProResvera Resveratrol
Resveratrol Select
Xenadrine RZR-X
Health
LASTEST NEWS
Food & Diet
What Will Happen to Your Body if You Start Eating
Chicken eggs possess numerous beneficial
+ View
Food & Diet
The Best Greens To Eat
We all know that greens are important to eat and
+ View
Food & Diet
Eat Daily For Clean Arteries
The other day my dad went to see his doctor. My
+ View
Food & Diet
5 Foods You Should NEVER Eat On An Empty Stomach!
Since childhood, we’ve all been told to add as
+ View
Supplements
Supplement center
Coenzyme Q10
Fish oil
Ginkgo Biloba
Green Tea
Grape seed extract
Krill Oil
Moringa
Organic Apple Cider Vinegar
Reishi Mushrooms
Spirulina
Taurine
Body Builder
Muscle Advance Creatine
Muscle Advance Weight Gainer
XtremeNO Muscle Builder
Colon Health
Bowtrol Colon Cleanse
Digest It
Super Colon Cleanse
Venapro Hemorrhoids Treatment
Herbs
Garlic
Ginkgo Biloba
Moringa
Skin Care
Acnezine Acne Skin Care Treatment
Cellulite Solution
Dermology Acne Treatment
Revitol Dermasis
Revitol Natural
Revitol Scar Removal Cream
Wartrol Warts Relief
Teeth Care
Alta White Teeth Whitening
Idol White Teeth Whitening
Teeth Whitening System
Men's Health
Acai Berry Select Cut
Deer Antler Plus Muscle Builder
Hypercet
Joint Advance
Multi Vitamin for Men
Natural Gain Plus
Prostacet
Provillus Hair Regrowth
Virility EX
Women's Health
Breast Actives
Joint Advance
Menozac
Multi Vitamin for Women
Provillus Hair Regrowth
Health Living
Article Healthy
By Super User	| Creat date 05 July 2017
Five Things You Should Know About ...
Fluoridation has been a public policy ...
More Detail
Category
Cancer cure
Food & Diet
Healthy Body
Health Living
Nutrition
Supplements
Food & Diet
Weight loss
Herbs
Nutrients
MOST POPULAR
What Will Happen to Your
Chicken eggs possess
+ View
The Best Greens To Eat
We all know that greens
+ View
Eat Daily For Clean
The other day my dad
+ View
5 Foods You Should NEVER
Since childhood, we’ve
+ View
Home Food & Diet -- Food groups ---- Dairy products -------- Cheese -------- Milk -------- Yogurt ---- Cereals ---- Eggs ---- Legumes ---- Fruits -------- Acai Berry -------- Apple -------- Avocado -------- Durian -------- Pomegranate -------- Reishi Mushrooms ---- Fats & Oils -------- Canola Oil -------- Flaxseed Oil -------- Macadamia Nut Oil -------- Olive oil -------- Omega-3 Fatty Acids -------- Sunflower Oil ---- Sugars -------- Chocolate ---- Vegetables -------- Cucumber -------- Garlic -------- Potato -------- Tomato ---- Beverage -------- Beer -------- Wine ---- Meat ---- Seafood -------- Fish -- Nutrition ---- Nutrients -------- Carbohydrates -------- Fat -------- Fiber -------- Minerals ---------- Calcium ---------- Iron ---------- Chromium ---------- Potassium ---------- Selenium ---------- Zinc -------- Protein -------- Vitamins ---------- Vitamin A ---------- Vitamin B1 ---------- Vitamin B2 ---------- Vitamin B3 ---------- Vitamin B9 ---------- Vitamin B12 ---------- Vitamin C ---------- Vitamin D ---------- Vitamin E ---------- Vitamin K -------- Water -------- Food additives ---- How Our Body Works ---- Nutrition facts label -- Diet ---- Mediterranean Diet -------- The vegetarian mediterranean -- Herbs ---- Aloe vera ---- Garlic ---- Ginkgo Biloba ---- Ginseng ---- Moringa ---- Oregano ---- Peppermint -- Food as medicine ---- Antioxidants ---- Cardiovascular disease ---- Diabetes ---- Digestive disorders ---- Heartburn ---- High blood pressure ---- Respiratory disorders ---- Top 15 super foods -- Body cleanse -- Organic food -- Raw Food ---- Fasts and Cleanses ---- Food Handling and Storage ---- Raw in the Real World ---- Soaking and Sprouting -- Vegetarian diet Weight loss -- Weight Loss Pills ---- Acai Berry Actives ---- Acai Berry Select ---- Caralluma Actives ---- Goji Berry Advance ---- Hoodia Gordonii Plus ---- Maqui Berry Select ---- Nutrition Forskolin ---- ProResvera Resveratrol ---- Resveratrol Select ---- Xenadrine RZR-X Health Supplements -- Supplement center ---- Coenzyme Q10 ---- Fish oil ---- Ginkgo Biloba ---- Green Tea ---- Grape seed extract ---- Krill Oil ---- Moringa ---- Organic Apple Cider Vinegar ---- Reishi Mushrooms ---- Spirulina ---- Taurine -- Body Builder ---- Muscle Advance Creatine ---- Muscle Advance Weight Gainer ---- XtremeNO Muscle Builder -- Colon Health ---- Bowtrol Colon Cleanse ---- Digest It ---- Super Colon Cleanse ---- Venapro Hemorrhoids Treatment -- Herbs ---- Garlic ---- Ginkgo Biloba ---- Moringa -- Skin Care ---- Acnezine Acne Skin Care Treatment ---- Cellulite Solution ---- Dermology Acne Treatment ---- Revitol Dermasis ---- Revitol Natural ---- Revitol Scar Removal Cream ---- Wartrol Warts Relief -- Teeth Care ---- Alta White Teeth Whitening ---- Idol White Teeth Whitening ---- Teeth Whitening System -- Men's Health ---- Acai Berry Select Cut ---- Deer Antler Plus Muscle Builder ---- Hypercet ---- Joint Advance ---- Multi Vitamin for Men ---- Natural Gain Plus ---- Prostacet ---- Provillus Hair Regrowth ---- Virility EX -- Women's Health ---- Breast Actives ---- Joint Advance ---- Menozac ---- Multi Vitamin for Women ---- Provillus Hair Regrowth Health Living -- Article Healthy -- Category
Breaking News:
10 Foods and Drinks That Make You Look Older	-- "Eats That Are Bad for Skin and Teeth You know to wear sunscreen and apply anti-aging ..." -- 01 October 2012
Baking Soda and Castor Solves Over 24 Issues -- "Castor oil has been long used as a natural remedy in the case of various ailments. ..." -- 03 July 2017
Black Pepper and Turmeric – This Combination Could Save Lives	-- "Historians from all around the world have produced evidence to show that apparently all ..." -- 11 November 2015
Five ingredients that poison your brain	-- "There is no shortage of things driving us crazy in the world today, but there are some ..." -- 02 August 2016
Health Benefits of Coconut Oil	-- "Coconut oil is one of the best items to protect you from infections, microorganisms and ..." -- 03 November 2016
Health Benefits of Dates	-- "The massive health benefits of dates have made them one of the best ingredients for ..." -- 09 September 2015
Honey And Fake Honey	-- "How To Check The Purity Of Honey ? Generally people buy honey from grocery stores ..." -- 31 March 2016
Hot Water Beneficial	-- "The therapeutic value of hot water is not a newly discovered, it has been used by the ..." -- 09 December 2015
How to Keep Your Brain Young	-- "Alzheimer's disease affects about 5.3 million Americans. It's the leading cause of ..." -- 18 August 2014
Hydration is important	-- "Water is the basis of all life and that includes your body. The muscles that move your ..." -- 13 May 2015
Chocolate
Category: Food & Diet
| Hits: 4749
Print
Email
доступная компьютерная помощь
Винница
fShare
Tweet
Chocolate comprises a number of raw and processed foods produced from the seed of the tropical Theobroma cacao tree. Cacaohas been cultivated for at least three millennia in Mexico, Central and South America, with its earliest documented use around 1100 BC. The majority of the Mesoamerican people made chocolate beverages, including the Aztecs, who made it into a beverage known as xocolātl, a Nahuatl word meaning "bitter water". The seeds of the cacao tree have an intense bitter taste, and must be fermented to develop the flavor.
After fermentation, the beans are dried, then cleaned, and then roasted, and the shell is removed to produce cacao nibs. The nibs are then ground to cocoa mass, pure chocolate in rough form. Because this cocoa mass usually is liquefied then molded with or without other ingredients, it is called chocolate liquor. The liquor also may be processed into two components: cocoa solids and cocoa butter. Unsweetened baking chocolate (bitter chocolate) contains primarily cocoa solids and cocoa butter in varying proportions. Much of the chocolate consumed today is in the form of sweet chocolate, combining cocoa solids, cocoa butter or other fat, and sugar. Milk chocolate is sweet chocolate that additionally contains milk powder or condensed milk. White chocolate contains cocoa butter, sugar, and milk but no cocoa solids.
Cocoa solids contain alkaloids such as theobromine and phenethylamine, which have physiological effects on the body. It has been linked to serotonin levels in the brain. Some research found that chocolate, eaten in moderation, can lower blood pressure. The presence of theobromine renders it toxic to some animals, especially dogs and cats.
Chocolate has become one of the most popular food types and flavors in the world. Gifts of chocolate molded into different shapes have become traditional on certain holidays: chocolate bunnies and eggs are popular on Easter, chocolate coins on Hanukkah, Santa Claus and other holiday symbols on Christmas, and chocolate hearts or chocolate in heart-shaped boxes on Valentine's Day. Chocolate is also used in cold and hot beverages, to produce chocolate milk and hot chocolate.
Theobroma cacao, native to Mexico, Central and South America, has been cultivated for at least three millennia in that region. Cocoa mass was used originally in Mesoamerica both as a beverage and as an ingredient in foods.
Chocolate has been used as a drink for nearly all of its history. The earliest record of using chocolate dates back before the Olmec. In November 2007, archaeologists reported finding evidence of the oldest known cultivation and use of cacao at a site in Puerto Escondido, Honduras, dating from about 1100 to 1400 BC. The residues found and the kind of vessel they were found in indicate that the initial use of cacao was not simply as a beverage, but the white pulp around the cacao beans was likely used as a source of fermentable sugars for an alcoholic drink. The Maya civilization grew cacao trees in their backyard, and used the cacao seeds it produced to make a frothy, bitter drink. Documents in Maya hieroglyphs stated that chocolate was used for ceremonial purposes, in addition to everyday life. The chocolate residue found in an early ancient Maya pot in Río Azul, Guatemala, suggests that Maya were drinking chocolate around 400 AD. In the New World, chocolate was consumed in a bitter, spicy drink called xocoatl, and was often flavored with vanilla, chili pepper, and achiote (known today as annatto). Xocoatl was believed to fight fatigue, a belief that is probably attributable to the theobromine content. Chocolate was also an important luxury good throughout pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, and cacao beans were often used as currency. For example, the Aztecs used a system in which one turkey cost one hundred cacao beans and one fresh avocado was worth beans. South American and European cultures have used cocoa to treat diarrhea for hundreds of years. All of the areas that were conquered by the Aztecs that grew cacao beans were ordered to pay them as a tax, or as the Aztecs called it, a "tribute".
Flavonoids
Flavonoids are polyphenolic compounds that are ubiquitous in nature and are categorized, according to chemical structure, into flavonols, flavones, flavanones, isoflavones, catechins, anthocyanidins and chalcones. Over 4,000 flavonoids have been identified, many of which occur in fruits, vegetables and beverages (tea, coffee, beer, wine and fruit drinks). The flavonoids have aroused considerable interest recently because of their potential beneficial effects on human health-they have been reported to have antiviral, anti-allergic, antiplatelet, anti-inflammatory, antitumor and antioxidant activities.
Antioxidants are compounds that protect cells against the damaging effects of reactive oxygen species, such as singlet oxygen, superoxide, peroxyl radicals, hydroxyl radicals and peroxynitrite. An imbalance between antioxidants and reactive oxygen species results in oxidative stress, leading to cellular damage. Oxidative stress has been linked to cancer, aging, atherosclerosis, ischemic injury, inflammation and neurodegenerative diseases (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's). Flavonoids may help provide protection against these diseases by contributing, along with antioxidant vitamins and enzymes, to the total antioxidant defense system of the human body. Epidemiological studies have shown that flavonoid intake is inversely related to mortality from coronary heart disease and to the incidence of heart attacks.
Health Benefits of Flavonoids
Beneficial effects of flavonoids on human health are partly explained by their antioxidant activity. Because of the antioxidative property, it is suggested that flavonoids may delay or prevent the onset of diseases (such as cancer) induced by free radicals. They also inhibit low density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation by free radicals. Flavonoids have been reported to have negative correlation with incidence of coronary heart disease. Furthermore, flavonoids have anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory, antiallergenic, and vasodilatory effect. They also inhibit platelet aggregation.
Health Benefits of Dark Chocolate
To know the health benefits of dark chocolate, one needs to understand the oxidation process that takes place in the body and the role of antioxidants. Oxidation is a chemical reaction that is essential for survival of an individual. However, at times, oxidation plays a major role in damaging body cells. In oxidation reaction, free radicals are produced that can start a chain reaction, leading to damage of cells and tissues. Antioxidants are substances that slow down or prevent the oxidation of other molecules. They protect the body from aging and many other diseases and disorders.
Dark chocolate, also called plain chocolate, contains epicatechin, which is a strong antioxidant. Epicatechin is actually a flavonol that belongs to flavonoids. The major role of flavonoids is to prevent cholesterol accumulation in the blood vessels, thus reducing the chances of blood clots. Hence, consuming flavonoid-rich dark chocolates enhances the blood flow, increasing the overall activity of the heart and the circulatory system.
Another health benefit of dark chocolate is that flavonoids help to relax the blood pressure by producing nitric oxide. According to a study conducted, it was shown that consuming a small bar of dark chocolate everyday for two weeks lowers high blood pressure. The blood tests of the participants showed increased level of epicatechin.
According to a survey, it was found that the Kuna people of Panama, who include cocoa in their everyday diet have lower percentage of suffering from diseases like heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer.
Eating dark chocolate also induces the endorphin production that has analgesic properties. Dark chocolate contains serotonin (anti-depressant), theobromine and caffeine, which act as stimulants. Consuming dark chocolate with milk hampers the antioxidant absorption by the body.
Though, it is a fact that dark chocolate is good for health, eating lots of chocolates is not recommended. It is to be noted that dark chocolate, like any other chocolate is loaded with many calories. One bar of dark chocolate contains about 400 calories. The fat content in dark chocolates can elevate the cholesterol level of the body.
Including a high percentage of dark chocolate in the diet poses a risk of gaining weight. Else, one has to reduce calorie intake by cutting down other food supplements. One should not opt for dark chocolates with fillings like nougats or caramel, as these fillings reduce the cocoa content and in turn, the health benefits. Anyways, a well-balanced diet and regular exercise are the key factors to stay healthy and fit.
Cacao, the source of great temptation, as we know, as you know, chocolate contains antibiotics. This function better in dark chocolate, because the high sugar must end in the effect of milk chocolate.
The first chocolate bar was manufactured in England by Cadbury's in the year 1842.
In all, there are 500 different varieties of flavors of chocolate. Milk chocolate is the favorite for maximum number of people in the world.
As per the Guiness World Book of Records, the largest chocolate bar of the world was made by Elah-Dufour United Food Companies of Italy in the year 2000. The weight of the chocolate bar was about 5000 pounds!
When we eat chocolate, it melts inside our mouth mainly because the melting point of cocoa butter present in it is slightly lower than our normal body temperature.
Studies on world's total chocolate consumption has revealed that on an average every individual consumes about 12 pounds of chocolate in a year. Among them, Swiss people eat maximum chocolates in the world. On an average, every Swiss eats 19 pounds of chocolate every year.
Chocolate contains Phenyl ethyl-amine, which is associated with elevated mood. Therefore, we believe that depressed people who swear by this "sin" foods.
Chocolate contains cocoa butter, is associated with the presence of fatty acid, a monounsaturated fat. Fat is known, managed to raise good cholesterol.
Found that drinking a cup of hot chocolate before meals can reduce appetite. So, if consumed in moderation, helping to maintain, even for people to lose weight.
There are many studies with results showing that the man who ate chocolate lived one year longer than those who do not. But there is no clear evidence of this fact.
Chocolate contains flavonoids, a group estimated at plant secondary metabolites to help the blood vessels elastic.
Eating chocolate can help to increase the level of anti-oxidants to improve the blood. Antioxidants are known for the body to fight free radicals and to follow a number of chronic diseases such as cancer, heart disease and stroke at bay.
Chocolate is effective for treating patients suffering from anemia, kidney stones and poor appetite for the cure
Carbohydrate in chocolate is known that the level of serotonin in the brain increases. This also helps the feeling well-being for themselves.
Eat chocolate regularly, but in moderation, improves digestion and promotes kidney
Treated in Mexico, with traditional healers known chocolate from bronchitis and insect bites.
Regular consumption of chocolate, even in moderation can help lower blood pressure. Thus patients with high BP profit.
Research has moderate chocolate consumption with decreased mortality from heart disease. Once again, there is no evidence of this fact.
Consumption of chocolate May to improve the function of endothelial cells that line blood vessels.
If people were to consume pure cocoa, they might indeed be able to enjoy a few health benefits, including a positive effect on blood pressure and glucose metabolism, however the majority of people eat processed chocolate with all the other less desirable ingredients (i.e. added sugar, corn syrup, milk fats / dairy cream, hydrogenated oils, etc.), and where the actual cocoa content may be less than 20%, so unless premium dark chocolate is consumed, and one does not suffer from copper overload (see further below), all bets regarding chocolate being a healthy food are off.
It is good to know that chocolate contains ingredients beneficial to health. However, it does not necessarily mean you should eat more chocolate products. Chocolate bars and candies are often high in fat, sugar and calories. Moderation is always the key - having a decadent piece of chocolate once in a while is not going to harm your health, either. If you have a choice, choose dark chocolate for its higher flavonoid content!
Cocoa chocolate prevent cardiovascular illness
Disclaimer: This website is for information purposes only. By providing the information contained herein we are not diagnosing, treating, curing, mitigating, or preventing any type of disease or medical condition. Before beginning any type of natural, integrative or conventional treatment regime, it is advisible to seek the advice of a licensed healthcare professional.
Latest from food faxt
Eat Daily For Clean Arteries
Powerful Natural Antibiotic
Zinc
5 Foods You Should NEVER Eat On An Empty Stomach!
7 potent foods that can fight pain naturally
Acai Berry
Alkaline Foods
Apple
fShare
Tweet
Prev
Next
куда поехать отдохнуть
развитие ресторанного бизнеса
Prev
Sponsored Section
Next
Bowtrol Colon
Colon Control is one of the health supplements made known by Bowtrol Colon Health Support that will
Readmore
Dermasis
If you are one of the millions of people that is tired of the embarrassing, irritating, and some
Readmore
Forskolin Fuel
What is Forskolin Fuel? A lot of people in today’s world are having a great problem with being
Readmore
Garcinia Cambogia
Weight gaining is the big issue now a day, it become more painful when it increase while you are on
Readmore
Green Coffee Bean
Green Coffee Bean Extract has been discovered quite an effective weight loss aid in recent
Readmore
Hypercet
The Hypercet Blood Pressure and Cholesterol Assistance Formulas assistance and maintain your normal
Readmore
Lemonade Diet
The original Lemonade Diet or Master Cleanse was developed over 60 years ago. It is a mixture of
Readmore
LiverActive
The most overworked organ in your body is without a doubt the liver. This vital organ plays a major
Readmore
Pro Testosterone
When men approach aging, it is genuine to face problems like muscles deficient, erection issues,
Readmore
Get Healthy
Allergies
A-Z Index
Best Health Challenge
Blood Pressure
Cold and Flu
Heart Health
Diabetes
Fitness
Health
Home Remedies
Look Great
Fitness
Sex & Love
Food
Weight Loss
Health
Beauty
Style
Help:Read more at Women's
Find expert health advices
10 Healing Spices
Top 10 Ayurvedic Herbs ...
Health Benefits of ...
Cancer Causing Foods
Facebook
Twitter
Youtobe
Rss
Vv
Send
Search
top
Health
Food & Diet
Healthy Body
Healthy blog
Exercise
Nutrition
Home
Contact Us
Privacy
Legal
About Us
SiteMap
Copyright © 2019 Healthy Body. All Rights Reserved. 101healthybody.Com
Joomla! is Free Software released under the GNU General Public License.
Scroll to top
News
Healthy Body Online Information News
Nutritional Online Information News
Supplemental Online Information News
Weight Loss Online Information News
Articles
© 2019 101healthybody.com