Getting pregnant right after stopping the pill: All you need to know
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Can you get pregnant right after stopping the pill?
Last reviewed	 Tue 21 November 2017	 Last reviewed	Tue 21 Nov 2017
By Rachel Nall, RN, BSN, CCRN
Reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Table of contents
How the pill works
What do the studies say?
Considerations when stopping the pill
Takeaway
Taking the pill does not mean a woman never wants to get pregnant.
If the time arrives when she does want to conceive, she may wonder how long it will take her to become pregnant.
The answer to this question can depend not only on when she stopped taking the pill but other factors, including age and overall health.
Fast facts about getting pregnant after stopping the pill:
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services estimate almost 62 percent of women between 15 to 44 years of age use contraception.
A variety of birth control pills are available on prescription in the United States.
Sometimes taking the pill can conceal menstrual cycle irregularities.
Women may not get pregnant right after stopping the pill, as the menstrual cycle reestablishes itself.
How the pill works
When a woman stops taking birth control pills, her menstrual cycle may take a while to return to a natural pattern.
Birth control pills serve several purposes, including:
maintaining consistent hormone levels
stopping the estrogen peak that causes ovulation
thickening cervical mucus, so sperm cannot reach an egg
In addition to preventing pregnancy, taking birth control pills offers several benefits to women. These include reduced bleeding and cramping during a menstrual cycle and reduced risk for ovarian cysts.
When taken at the same time every day, birth control pills prevent pregnancy for 91 percent of women on combined pills and 95 percent of women on mini-pills, according to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.
When a woman wishes to conceive, she will stop taking the pill.
How long does it take for the menstrual cycle to reestablish itself?
According to the United Kingdom's National Health Service (NHS), a woman's period may be irregular for up to 3 months after she stops taking the pill.
Doctors call a woman's first period after stopping the pill a "withdrawal bleed" where she may experience bleeding patterns that are different from her period while on the pill.
Doctors call the next period a woman has "a natural period" that is more like her typical period.
It is possible that an irregular menstrual cycle, or reestablishing a natural menstrual cycle off the pill, can affect a woman's ability to conceive.
What do the studies say?
A study found that women who started using birth control pills under the age of 21 may find it more difficult to get pregnant, compared with those who started taking the pill after 21.
Taking oral contraceptives can result in a short-term delay in achieving pregnancy of 2 to 6 months when a woman stops taking the pill, compared to other contraceptive use, according to a 2013 Danish study published in the journal Human Reproduction.
The study included 3,727 women, aged 18 to 40 years.
The participants were asked to complete a questionnaire on a monthly basis for 12 months to determine if pregnancy occurred.
The researchers also found that women who had used birth control pills for longer rather than shorter time periods were more likely to get pregnant.
Similarly, long-term use had no negative effect on the probability of getting pregnant.
The study also found that women who had used birth control pills, starting younger than age 21 years old, were less likely to get pregnant when compared to women who started taking the pill after the age of 21 years.
The researchers theorized that younger women starting birth control pills might have more irregularities in their menstrual cycle compared with women starting birth control pills later.
An older research study published in the 2009 issue of Obstetrics & Gynecology, found that previous use of oral contraceptives does not affect conception in the short-term or during a one-year period after trying to conceive.
10 most common birth control pill side effects
The birth control pill can have some side effects. Learn more about them here.
Read now
Considerations when stopping the pill
Examples of the factors that impact the likelihood of conceiving after ceasing the contraceptive pill include:
A woman's overall health: Factors, such as thyroid disorders, pituitary gland disorders, or polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), can affect the chances of conceiving. Women who are obese or excessively thin also may have difficulty conceiving.
A woman's reproductive health: Women who have a history of pelvic infections, blocked fallopian tubes, or endometriosis may have greater difficulty conceiving.
A man's reproductive health: Low sperm counts can affect a couple's chances of getting pregnant.
How often a couple has sex: "Regular" sex when trying to conceive is usually having sex every 2 to 3 days. Having sex less frequently is less likely to result in pregnancy.
A woman's age: Rates of pregnancy decline after women reach the age of 35 years. According to the NHS, 92 percent of women ages 19 to 26, will conceive within 1 year of having unprotected sex. An estimated 82 percent of women, 35 to 39 years of age, will conceive within 1 year after having unprotected sex.
Most obstetricians use the 1-year mark of having unprotected sex as a milestone in fertility assessment. If a couple has not conceived after trying for 1 year, they may wish to see an obstetrician for further evaluation.
Takeaway
Some women may get pregnant immediately after stopping the pill, while others may find it takes over a year.
Many factors go into getting pregnant. While stopping the pill is an important step, so is making sure a woman's body is in the best possible health to conceive.
Additional steps a woman can take to ensure a healthy pregnancy include:
prenatal vitamins or folic acid supplements to avoid birth abnormalities
stopping smoking
refraining from drinking alcohol
keeping stress to a minimum
While stopping the pill may temporarily extend the time to conception, some women will get pregnant immediately after they come off the pill.
Therefore, it is vital for a woman to be ready to take care of her body during her pregnancy, as soon as she and her partner begin trying to conceive.
Related coverage
NuvaRing: Uses, advantages, and risks NuvaRing is a contraceptive device for women. It is a plastic ring that prevents the ovaries from producing mature eggs by releasing hormones over a period of time. It is inserted in the vagina and remains there, but it is removed during menstruation. Check with a doctor first to ensure it is safe for you. Read now
What you should know about non-hormonal birth control Non-hormonal birth control aims to prevent pregnancy without changing the balance of hormones in the body. It includes barrier methods, such as condoms, long-term options, for example, the IUD, and sterilization, which is a permanent solution. Find out more about the different methods and see which one may suit you. Read now
10 most common birth control pill side effects Birth control pills can be an effective way of preventing an unwanted pregnancy. They can also ease period pains and help with acne, but they may also have some undesirable side effects. This article looks at the variety of birth control pills that is available, as well as what alternatives there are. Read now
How and when to take a pregnancy test A pregnancy test can be taken at home or in the doctor's office. A urine test is done at home, but a doctor will do either a urine or a blood test. A urine test detects the presence of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). Find out more about when to use a pregnancy test, what they involve, and what the results mean. Read now
Birth control: What is the best option? There are so many types of birth control available that a person may be confused and mystified about the way birth control alternatives work and affect the body. In this article, we explain how the most common ones work and how effective they are. You can also find out about how they may affect the way you feel. Read now
email email
print
share share
Fertility
Pregnancy / Obstetrics Sexual Health / STDs
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 21 November 2017.
Visit our Fertility category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Fertility.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Birth control pill. (2017, June 8). Retrieved from https://www.hhs.gov/opa/pregnancy-prevention/hormonal-methods/birth-control-pills/index.html
Birth control pills. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.healthywomen.org/condition/birth-control-pills
Christin-Maitre, S. (2013, February). History of oral contraceptive drugs and their use worldwide [Abstract]. Best Practice & Research Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism, 27(1), 3–12. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1521690X12001169
Cronin, M., Schellschmidt, I., & Dinger, J. (2009, September). Rate of pregnancy after using drospirenone and other progestin-containing oral contraceptives [Abstract]. Obstetrics & Gynecology, 114(3), 616–622. Retrieved from http://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/Abstract/2009/09000/Rate_of_Pregnancy_After_Using_Drospirenone_and.20.aspx
Daniels, K., Daugherty, J., & Jones, J. (2014, December). Current contraceptive status among women aged 15–44: United States, 2011–2013. Retrieved from http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnn/2016/images/10/04/contraceptive.use.stats.pdf
How long does it usually take to get pregnant? (2015, November 21). Retrieved from https://www.nhs.uk/chq/Pages/2295.aspx?CategoryID=54
Mikkelsen, E. M., Riis, A. H., Wise, L. A., Hatch, E. E., Rothman, K. J., & Sorensen, H. T. (2013, May 1). Pre-gravid oral contraceptive use and time to pregnancy: A Danish prospective cohort study. Human Reproduction, 28(5),1398–1405. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/humrep/article/28/5/1398/940795
When will my periods come back after I stop taking the pill? (2015, July 30). Retrieved from https://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/contraception-guide/Pages/when-periods-after-stopping-pill.aspx
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Nall, Rachel. "Can you get pregnant right after stopping the pill?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 21 Nov. 2017. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320097.php>
APA
Nall, R. (2017, November 21). "Can you get pregnant right after stopping the pill?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320097.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Popular in: Fertility
What days can you get pregnant?
What does the LH surge mean for pregnancy?
Fertility drugs for women: What to know
What to know about sperm analysis
Does Clomid work for male infertility?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320097.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);