Tick bites | BabyCenter
advertisement
Expert Advice Home
Log in or Sign up
COMMUNITY
GETTING PREGNANT
PREGNANCY
BABY
TODDLER
PRESCHOOLER
BIG KID
HEALTH
VIDEO
PRODUCTS & GEAR
FOR YOU
Join now to personalize
BabyCenter for your pregnancy
Children's Health
Injuries & Accidents
Bites & Stings
Tick bites
Written by BabyCenter Staff
Reviewed by the BabyCenter Medical Advisory Board
Updated July 2018
IN THIS ARTICLE
What should I do if I find a tick on my child?
What if I don't remove all of it?
Should I worry about Lyme disease?
Shouldn't the doctor prescribe antibiotics immediately?
How can I protect my child from ticks?
What should I do if I find a tick on my child?
Don't panic. Ticks can transmit infection only after they've attached themselves to the skin and drawn blood into their bodies. Even then, they usually have to be attached for at least 36 hours for it to be a concern.
If you see a tick crawling on your child's clothing or skin and it's still small (flat, not engorged), there's no risk that it has infected your child. Just pick it up in a tissue and flush it down the toilet.
If the tick has attached itself to your child's skin, remove it as soon as possible by pulling it out gently with tweezers. Firmly grasp it as close to the tick's mouth as you can, then pull it slowly and evenly away from the skin.
Try not to squeeze the tick's body because this could release the blood back into your child's bloodstream if the tick is engorged. And don't twist or jerk the tweezers or you may break off the tick's body, leaving part of it behind.
Forget any advice you've heard about applying petroleum jelly, fingernail polish, or a hot match to the end of the tick. Those home remedies may just irritate the tick and make it regurgitate its stomach contents into your child's blood, increasing the risk of infection.
Once you've removed the tick, wash the bite area (and your hands) with soap and water, then apply an antiseptic lotion. Flush the tick down the toilet.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not recommend that you save the tick for testing. Even if the tick tested positive for disease, it doesn't necessarily mean that your child was infected. And negative results can be falsely reassuring because your child might unknowingly have been bitten by another infected tick. Also, if your child is infected, it's possible he'll develop symptoms (and should begin treatment) before the results of the tick test would become available.
You could examine the tick, though, to determine if it's the kind of tick that carries Lyme disease. The CDC has helpful photographs of ticks that bite humans and information about the diseases each type can transmit.
Be sure to check the rest of your child's body for other ticks. Look carefully at his head (including in and around his ears) and scalp, armpits, the back of his knees, between his legs, in his belly button, around his waist, and between his fingers and toes. These are all places ticks often like to attach themselves.
What if I don't remove all of it?
If part of the tick remains buried, it doesn't increase the risk of a tick-borne infection. Just remove it as you would a splinter.
And just as with a splinter, don't dig around if you can't get it out completely. Your child's body may expel the piece on its own. If any sign of a local infection develops (redness, oozing, warmth), take your child to the doctor.
Should I worry about Lyme disease?
The number of cases of Lyme disease is increasing, along with other tick-borne diseases, such as Rocky Mountain spotted fever. That's why it's important to remove the tick and clean the area as soon as you discover it. (Remember, even if the tick is infected, removing it in the first 36 hours greatly reduces the chances that it will transmit Lyme disease.)
After you remove a tick, keep an eye out for symptoms of Lyme disease. If your child seems ill or develops a rash or fever during the following month, call the doctor. Fortunately, tick-borne illnesses are uncommon in most areas, and when detected early, they can be treated effectively with antibiotics.
Keep in mind that although ticks are found across the country, very few are infected with Lyme in most locations. According to the CDC, 14 states account for 95 percent of Lyme disease cases in the United States.
Shouldn't the doctor prescribe antibiotics immediately?
Probably not. Many parents are so worried about Lyme disease that they want their kids to take antibiotics just in case the tick was infected. But the chances of this are slim, and the overuse of antibiotics poses its own dangers. Germs can become resistant to the drugs, which has become a growing problem. Most experts recommend a wait-and-see approach.
In some cases, though, doctors recommend giving an antibiotic within 72 hours of a tick bite to lower the risk of contracting Lyme disease. Your child's doctor may suggest a single dose of doxycycline if:
You live in an area where Lyme disease is common.
The tick was attached for at least 36 hours.
The tick is confirmed to be the type that may carry Lyme disease.
Note: Doxycycline can cause permanent tooth staining in children younger than 8, but a single dose or a short course isn't likely to cause problems.
How can I protect my child from ticks?
Try to keep your child out of wooded and brushy areas with high grass and leaf litter. When you go hiking or camping, stay on the paths rather than traipsing through densely wooded areas.
If you're going to be in an area that is likely to have a lot of ticks, have your child dress in long pants and a long-sleeved shirt, and tuck the ends of her pants into her socks. Clothing made of slick material (like a windbreaker) is harder for ticks to grab onto than knits. Light-colored clothing will make it easier to spot any ticks.
To repel ticks (and mosquitoes), the CDC recommends using an EPA-registered insect repellent with one of the following active ingredients: DEET, picaridin, IR35535, oil of lemon eucalyptus, para-menthane-3,8-diol, or 2-undecanone.
Tick repellents that contain permethrin are meant to be sprayed on clothing, but not on skin. Apply one of these to your child's clothing, including her shoes, before getting her dressed.
Check to make sure that whatever product you choose is appropriate for use on your child. No repellent is safe to use on babies younger than 2 months, and products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-3,8-diol should not be used on children younger than 3.
If you need help finding a repellent, try the EPA's repellent search tool.
When you find a suitable product, use it only on small areas of exposed skin, avoiding any cuts or scrapes and the area around the eyes and mouth. Don't put repellent on your child's hands (which are likely to find their way to her mouth).
Never spray insect repellent directly on your child's face. Instead, put it on your hands and then apply it. Wash your hands well afterward.
Tick bites don't sting or itch right away, so your child may get bitten and not even know it. While hiking with the family, check each other for ticks from time to time. At the end of the day, examine everyone's skin carefully.
When your child comes back inside, wash the repellent off her skin. Better yet, put her in the shower to rinse it off. That way, any ticks that are crawling will wash off as well, and it will also be easier to check for remaining ticks.
Check clothing and packs for ticks, too, and remove any that you find. Tumble dry clothing on high for 10 minutes to kill ticks on dry clothing. (Dry them longer if they were damp to begin with.) If the clothes need to be washed, using hot, not warm, water also kills ticks.
If you have pets, check them for ticks, especially around the head and neck, after they've been outside in the yard or the woods. Pets can pass ticks to the rest of the family. During the spring and summer months, you may want to ask your veterinarian about an anti-tick product for your dog.
If you live in a tick-infested area
Tick bites often happen right in your backyard, so try to create a tick-free zone around your house. The CDC suggests taking the following measures:
Remove leaf debris and tall grass from around your home and lawn. Keep the grass short.
Keep toys and outdoor equipment away from low-hanging trees and the edge of the yard.
Create a barrier of wood chips or gravel that's at least 3 feet wide between your lawn and wooded areas.
Ticks can contract the bacteria from mice, so discourage mice by cleaning around bird feeders regularly and stacking wood in a dry area, away from the house.
Deer can also carry ticks that transmit Lyme disease, so do your best to keep the animals off your property by planting deer-resistant vegetation, putting up fencing, and never feeding them.
Show sources
CDC. 2016a. Preventing ticks in the yard. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/prev/in_the_yard.html [Accessed July 2018]
CDC. 2016b. Signs and symptoms of untreated Lyme disease. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/signs_symptoms/index.html [Accessed July 2018]
CDC. 2018a. Lyme disease. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/index.html [Accessed July 2018]
CDC. 2018b. Natural tick repellents and pesticides. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/prev/natural-repellents.html [Accessed July 2018]
CDC. 2018c. Tick removal and testing. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/removal/index.html [Accessed July 2018]
EPA. Tips to prevent tick bites. Environmental Protection Agency. https://www.epa.gov/insect-repellents/tips-prevent-tick-bites [Accessed July 2018]
Shapiro ED. 2014. Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease). Pediatrics in Review 35(12). http://pedsinreview.aappublications.org/content/35/12/500 [Accessed July 2018]
advertisement | page continues below
View comments (6)
advertisement
Featured video
All pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos >
advertisement
Where to go next
Lyme disease
Test your health IQ: Which bug repellents are safe for your child?
How-to: 3 simple hair styles your daughter will love
Poison ivy, oak, and sumac in children
Freebies & Coupons
Get coupons
Editor's picks
Signs of an ear infection
Fever: 7 things you might not know
4:44
Video: Taking your child's temperature
advertisement
Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app
ABOUT BABYCENTER
About us
Awards
Careers
Advertise with us
Press Center
Mission Motherhood
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Ad Choices
Free Stuff & Great Deals
Love us?
GET HELP
Help Center
Contact Us: General inquiries
Contact Us: Community
Community Guidelines
Email Subscriptions
Account Details
Family Information
OTHER SITES
BabyCenter en Español
Baby.com
Pregnancy.com
Arabia
Australia
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
India
Malaysia
UK
BABYCENTER APPS
Pregnancy & Baby
Baby Names for iOS
My Pregnancy Alexa Skill
BabyCenter Roku Channel
Connect with us
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resource, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Join now
XO,
Your friends at BabyCenter
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2019 All rights reserved.
This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use.
New to BabyCenter? Join now
Log in to continue
Email address
Password
Forgot your password?
Keep me logged in
Log in
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resources, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Track my baby
Community
TOP RESOURCES
Birth Clubs
Groups
Topics
Birth Stories
Mom Answers
POPULAR GROUPS
Bargain Hunters
Trying to Conceive
Breastfeeding Support
Miscarriage Support
Plus Size and Pregnant
Teaching Your Child to Sleep
Cooking For Your Family
Parenting Advice
Large Families
Preemie Parenting
See all in Community
Getting Pregnant
TOP RESOURCES
Ovulation Calculator
Pregnancy Symptoms
How to Get Pregnant
What Cervical Mucus Looks Like
When Do I Ovulate?
How Long it Takes to Get Pregnant
Am I Pregnant?
In Vitro Fertilization
Ovulation Symptoms
Pregnancy Tests
Implantation Bleeding
Chart Your Cycle
POPULAR TOPICS
Timing Sex for Pregnancy
Tips for Getting Pregnant
Infertility & Trouble Conceiving
See all in Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
TOP RESOURCES
Due Date Calculator
Baby Name Finder
Popular Baby Names
Pregnancy Week by Week
Sex During Pregnancy
Weight Gain Tracker
Signs of Labor
Morning Sickness
Cramping During pregnancy
C-Sections
Gestational Diabetes
POPULAR TOPICS
Labor & Delivery
Aches & Pains
Pregnancy Safety
Health Problems in Pregnancy
Prenatal Care & Tests
See all in Pregnancy
Baby
TOP RESOURCES
Feeding Guide
Sleep Basics & Training
Soothe a Crying Baby
When Babies Start Talking
When Babies Roll Over
When Babies Crawl
Diaper Rash
Postpartum Depression
Breastfeeding
First-Year Baby Costs Calculator
POPULAR TOPICS
Your Newborn
Baby Development
Solids & Finger Foods
Sleep & Feeding Schedules
Your Postpartum Health
See all in Baby
Toddler
TOP RESOURCES
Average Weight & Height
Autism Signs
Child Growth Chart
Night Terrors
Moving from Crib to Bed
Development Milestones
Toddler Feeding Guide
Toddler Tantrums
Separation Anxiety
How Much Sleep? (Birth to Age 2)
Fine Motor Skills
POPULAR TOPICS
Toddler Development
Toddler Behavior
Toddler Sleep & Naps
Potty Training
See all in Toddler
Preschooler
TOP RESOURCES
Height Predictor
Potty Training: Boys
Potty training: Girls
How Much Sleep (Ages 3+)
Ready for Preschool?
Tantrums
Thumb-Sucking
Gross Motor Skills
Napping (Ages 2 to 3)
POPULAR TOPICS
Development (Ages 2 to 4)
Preschooler Behavior
Eating & Nutrition
Picky Eaters
Discipline Strategies
Preschool Basics
See all in Preschooler
Big Kid
TOP RESOURCES
Jokes for Kids
Growth Spurts
Aggression
Nail-Biting
Defiance
Is Your Child Gifted?
Bed-Wetting
Talking Back
Talking to Kids About Divorce
POPULAR TOPICS
Activities & Play
Behavior
Discipline
School
Parenting Strategies
Talking About Difficult Subjects
See all in Big Kid
Health
TOP RESOURCES
Photos: Rashes & Skin Conditions
Symptom Checker
Vaccine Scheduler
Reducing a Fever
Teething
Acetaminophen Dosage Chart
Constipation in Babies
Ear Infection Symptoms
Infant CPR
Head Lice 101
POPULAR TOPICS
Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu
Teething & Tooth Care
Injuries & Accidents
Childproofing
Food Allergies
See all in Health
Video
TOP RESOURCES
Live Birth: Natural
How to Bathe a Baby
Getting Pregnant: When to Have Sex
Water Birth
Breastfeeding Positions
Getting an Epidural
How to Burp a Baby
How to Swaddle a Baby
Potty Training in 3 Days
Breast Changes During Pregnancy
How to Use a Breast Pump
POPULAR TOPICS
Weekly Pregnancy Series
Childbirth
Baby Care Basics
Celebrations
See all in Video
Gear
TOP RESOURCES
Baby Registry Checklist
2018 Best Baby Products
Best Breast Pump
Best Convertible Car Seat
Best Infant Car Seat
Best Baby Bottle
Best Baby Monitor
Best Stroller
Best Diapers
Best Baby Carrier
Best Diaper Bag
Best Highchair
POPULAR TOPICS
Toys & Activities
Baby Clothes
Cribs, Bassinets & Beds
See all in Gear
For You
TOP RESOURCES
First Birthday Ideas
Second Birthday Ideas
Quick and Healthy Snacks
Paternity Leave
Can Pets Sense Pregnancy?
Chinese Gender Predictor
Gender Reveal Parties
Baby Shower Games
Lullabies
POPULAR TOPICS
Family Finance
House & Home
Travel
Life as a Mom
Meal Planning & Recipes
Age & Fertility
See all in For You
Connect with us
Already a member? Log in
Due date or child's birthday
mmJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec dd12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 yyyy202020192018201720162015201420132012201120102009200820072006200520042003200220012000
Trying to conceive
Calculate my due date
First day of your last period
Select date
Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners
Privacy Policy | Terms
Sign in