Adult Eczema Glossary | DUPIXENT® (dupilumab)
Patient Prescribing Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
Healthcare Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic
Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Other Condition
What is Atopic
Dermatitis?
Disease Education
Eczema Check-in
About
DUPIXENT
How DUPIXENT Works
How DUPIXENT May Help
How DUPIXENT Is Taken
DUPIXENT
Support
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Sign Up
Copay Card
DUPIXENT Pricing Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary
Patient
Experiences
Patient Stories
Healthcare Professionals
Glossary
Home
Home
DUPIXENT Support
Glossary
Glossary
Take a minute to learn about common medical terms and key words
associated with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) and DUPIXENT.
A
Allergen
A typically harmless substance that causes a response of the immune system. Examples of allergens include pollen, dust mites, animal dander and mold.
Allergy
A chronic condition characterized by an unusual reaction of the immune system to a typically harmless substance, called an allergen. See Allergen.
Atopic dermatitis (also called atopic eczema)
A chronic skin disease and the most common type of eczema. It is characterized by skin inflammation and itch. Scratching the skin results in redness, swelling, cracking, oozing, crusting and scaling. Atopic dermatitis is not contagious. See Eczema, Dermatitis and Inflammation.
B
Biologic
Biologics are a different class of medication. They are different from commonly used medications such as corticosteroids. Some biologics may target only specific reactions within the body and are available as injections.
C
Chronic
Lasting for a long time or occurring over and over for a long time.
Corticosteroids
Medications that decrease inflammation. Steroid creams and ointments are frequently used to treat atopic dermatitis.
D
DUPIXENT MyWay®
A program to provide support for patients starting DUPIXENT. Get ongoing, personalized nursing support 24/7; help scheduling monthly prescription refills and deliveries; and in-home, in-office or online supplemental injection training.
E
Eczema
A group of skin conditions characterized by skin inflammation, rash and itch. There are many different types of eczema, and atopic dermatitis is the most common of them.
F
Flare-up
An instance when disease symptoms get worse.
I
Immune system
The defense system that protects your body against harmful substances and invaders, such as bacteria and viruses. The immune system is made up of many different cell types and organs.
Inflammation
Your body’s response to damage caused by bacteria, harmful substances, high temperature or other factors. The damaged cells produce chemical signals that attract white blood cells that cause swelling in the surrounding tissues. Inflammation can lead to itchiness and redness.
Itch
An unpleasant sensation in the skin that makes you want to scratch.
O
Oozing
The weeping of fluid on the skin surface as a result of scratching. When the fluid dries out, crusting is created.
P
Placebo
An inactive substance used in clinical studies to make it easier to determine the true effects of the active drug that is being tested.
R
Rash
A change in the way skin looks or feels. Skin may change color, may become bumpy, dry, itchy or cracked.
S
Scaling
Flakes or plates of dry, hard outer layer of skin.
Scratch
To scrape your skin with nails, often to relieve itching.
Sharps disposal container
A container used to dispose of used syringes and needles.
T
Topical
A medicine applied to the skin.
Triggers
Things that can make your atopic dermatitis worse. Examples of triggers include dry skin, irritants, stress, hot and cold temperature, sweating, infection, allergens and hormones.
Disease Education
Having correct information is one of the most important keys to emerging stronger in dealing with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
Get Informed
How It Works
DUPIXENT helps address an underlying cause of the inflammation in your body which contributes to your moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis.
Explore the Process
Frequently Asked Questions
Get answers about DUPIXENT, dosage and the DUPIXENT MyWay support program.
Find Out More
Important Safety Information and Indication
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indication
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
US-DAD-13323(7) Last Update: March 2019