New research shows that 50% of all Migraine sufferers are deficient in Magnesium …. so why doesn’t Magnesium supplementation work for my migraine?
Australian Press Release Distribution & PR Wire Service
Login or Sign Up
Login
Lost Password
Sign Up
New Press Release
For Journalists
News Categories
New research shows that 50% of all Migraine sufferers are deficient in Magnesium …. so why doesn’t Magnesium supplementation work for my migraine?
Saturday, March 24th, 2018 - Regenex Laboratories
In the last 3 years, new research conducted at both Stamford Universities New England Centre for Headache and the University of Sao Paulo, has uncovered a link between Migraine sufferers and magnesium serum levels, with the conclusion that Magnesium can effectively be used for the treatment of ongoing Migraine headache.
The research concluded that 40-50% of all migraine sufferers are deficient in magnesium, showing a clear link between magnesium deficiency and migraine, so why is supplementation with standard Magnesium usually ineffective?
This vital mineral is critical in more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body and Dr. Marc Sircus, Director of the International Medical Veritas Association once said “there is a power and a force in magnesium that cannot be equalled anywhere else in the world of medicine”
So is avoiding migraines as simple as taking a magnesium supplement? No it is not and here is the reason why supplementation with standard magnesium usually doesn’t work.
While magnesium given by IV does seem to work miracles, it’s pretty hard to give yourself an IV drip at home, and plain magnesium in supplement form (on its own) doesn’t cross the blood brain barrier or enter soft muscle tissue. It needs to be combined with other selected B group vitamins and minerals, known as co-factors, for it to enter the blood stream and into the soft muscle tissue where it can relax the muscle and even out blood flow.
So if you take a regular magnesium supplement, like one you might find in your local pharmacy or supermarket, it will have little or no effect on your migraine frequency or severity, as most of it will just pass through your body and flush out in your urine. Maybe you’ve been there before and already know the outcome.
But more recently, in a product developed with the help of leading doctors, professors and clinical researchers from Australia, New Zealand and the USA, the magnesium is activated by bonding it with other co-factors (Vitamins B3, B6 & Zinc), so it is absorbed into the body 4 times more than standard magnesium, helping to prevent future migraines.
This new supplement has been launched under the Tradename of Migraine Stop and it contains 3 forms of magnesium into one capsule, with B group vitamins and zinc added to allow the magnesium to cross the blood brain barrier. The manufacturer claims that this activated magnesium alone is incredibly powerful, but in order to add weight to the formulation they also needed a natural solution to the anxiety and stress that often accompanies migraine pain, so to assist with the anxiety and further enhance muscle relaxation they added Cramp Bark and Passionflower.
So will this new Migraine Stop work for everyone?
Apparently not everyone, but at least 50% of people. Migraines are triggered by a huge range of factors, but this research has definitively shown that around 40-50% of migrainers exhibit a magnesium deficiency, so if you fall into that category then the activated magnesium will definitely help. The company has created a 365 day, no questions asked, money back guarantee to protect those who it doesn’t work for, so essentially they eliminated all the risk to consumers in trying it out.
This new migraine prevention supplement is the product of Regenex Laboratories, a New Zealand based company with distribution warehouses in Australia and USA, and as of writing the company has launched globally, offering clients a chance to try the product at a $15 discount by way of a promotional code. It’s an innovative launch and so far more than one million consumers worldwide are using Migraine Stop. Check the link here to try one of the discounted bottles http://www.migraine-stop.com.au/migraine-get-coupon/
The interviewer is Dr. Richard Teague, a US based medical practitioner and advocate of alternative medicines and therapies. For more information about Dr Teague you can visit his blog at www.askdoctorteague.com
Video
File Library
Contact Profile
Regenex Laboratories
Regenex Laboratories is a New Zealand based company, marketing natural supplements in Australia, the USA, the UK and Asia. Regenex Labs marqee product is Migraine Stop, a magnesium based product for migraine, tension headaches, leg cramps, PMS and improved sleep
Mark Linford
M: +61413386308
W: www.migrainestop.com
Keywords
migraine, magnesium, supplements for migraine, b vitamins for migraine, tension headache
Categories
Medicine & Health
Newsrooms
Regenex Laboratories
Sharing
More Formats
View QR Code
Quick Links
New Press Release
For Journalists
News Categories
Company
Contact
About
Terms
Pricing
Privacy
We're Social
Blog
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Google+
Subscribe
Subscribe to receive NewsMaker E-News updates with the latest PR tips and trends
Subscribe
Copyright© 2005-2019 Newsgallery Pty Ltd. NewsMaker® is a trademark of NewsGallery Pty Ltd.
2019-04-19 21:51:17 GMT +9.5
Back to Top