Hereditary-Patterned Baldness | health.am
Skip to Content
health.am
Sections →
Mind and Body
Diet food and fitness
Weight Loss and Diet Plans
Fitness & Exercise
Oral Care
Health & Sex
Women's Health
Benign Breast Diseases
Breast Cancer
Hereditary Breast Cancers
Cervical Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Pregnancy
Pregnancy calendar
Pregnancy FAQ
Teenage Pregnancy
Early Pregnancy Risks
Disorders During Pregnancy
Diabetes Mellitus and Pregnancy
Adolescent Gynecology
Delayed Puberty
Urinary Incontinence
Stress Urinary Incontinence
Menstrual Irregularities
Dysmenorrhea
Uterine Prolapse
Menopausal Syndrome
Contraception
Infertility
Eating Disorders
Obesity and Diabetes
Emotional Eating
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Men's Health
Basis of Sleep
Common Sleep Disorders
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Warning Signs
MI Prevention
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Acute Heart Failure
What is Atherosclerosis?
High Blood Pressure
Hypertension Symptoms & signs
LDL and HDL cholesterol
Foods to avoid
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
Lifestyle changes
Prostate Cancer
Bladder Cancer
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Testicular Cancer
Penis Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Carcinoma of the Anus
Fast Foods
Exercise and Weight Control
Diabetes Mellitus
Prevention of Clinical Diabetes
Diabetes Complications and Prevention
Male Infertility & Sexual Dysfunction
Premature Ejaculation
Sexually Transmitted Infections
Children's Health
Childhood Sleep Disorders
Sleepwalking Disorder
Pediatric & Adolescent Gynecology
Contraception for Adolescents
Delayed Puberty
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Hypertension in children
Congenital heart disease
Childhood obesity
Pediatric Obesity Prevention
Binge Eating in Children
Aging Well
Successful aging
Exercise and age
Planning for Successful Aging
High Blood Pressure
Heart Attack Symptoms &Signs
Cardiac Failure
Exercise and age
Normal cognitive changes in aging
Normal Aging and Dementia
Short sleep, aging brain
Sleep speed brain aging
Breast Cancer in the elderly
Prostate Cancer
Prevention of Clinical Diabetes
Health Centers
Allergies
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Blood and Lymph Diseases
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
Women's Health
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Overweight and Obesity
Family and Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Why preventive care is important
Remember the old saying that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure"? This can be especially true when it comes to preventive health care. Maintaining or improving your health is important - and a focus on regular preventive care, along with following the advice of your doctor, can help you stay healthy.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Breast Cancer
High Blood Pressure
Schizophrenia
Chest Pain
Cocaine abuse
Marijuana use in adults
Hereditary-Patterned Baldness
Aug 18, 2004 Viewed: 534
What Is It?
Hereditary-patterned baldness — or androgenetic alopecia — is the most common cause of hair loss, affecting 30 percent to 40 percent of both men and women. Hereditary-patterned baldness is not really a disease, but a natural condition caused by some combination of genetics, hormone levels and the aging process. Hair loss typically begins in the 20s and 30s, although in women the changes are most noticeable after menopause.
In recent years, researchers have begun to understand more about the cause of this type of hair loss. Under the influence of a form of the male hormone testosterone, there is a change in the normal cycle of hair growth, resulting in shorter, thinner or “miniaturized” hair. Eventually, hair growth in certain parts of the scalp stops entirely, which produces the typical pattern of hair loss. Contrary to the folk wisdom that baldness is inherited from one’s mother’s family, genes contributed by both parents appear to affect hormone levels as well as the general susceptibility to this process.
Symptoms
Hereditary-patterned baldness starts with thinning of the hair and progresses to complete hair loss in parts of the scalp. Hairs on the pillow, in the tub or on the comb are unreliable symptoms of hair loss. The average non-balding person loses 100 hairs per day, and more hair may fall out under certain circumstances, such as after childbirth or a serious illness.
In men, hair loss typically begins at the temples and crown and proceeds in an M-shaped pattern. In the most advanced stage, only a rim of hair along the side and back of the scalp remains.
In women, hair loss tends to be more widespread but better camouflaged. The top of the head down the middle is most commonly affected, often in a “Christmas tree” pattern. In contrast to men, the hairline along the forehead and temples usually remains normal in women. Complete loss of hair in any one place on the scalp is unusual and may suggest that a different process is at work, such as alopecia areata (an immune system disorder that causes bald patches), a fungus infection or one of a number of skin conditions.
Diagnosis
Hereditary-patterned baldness usually is diagnosed by both its pattern and a history of a similar type of hair loss affecting family members. In most people, no further tests are required.
Expected Duration
Hair loss should be expected to be permanent.
Prevention
If you begin to lose hair in a hereditary pattern, you may be able to prevent further hair loss by using minoxidil (Rogaine) or finasteride (Proscar). Minoxidil can be used by both men and women, while finasteride usually is used just for men.
Minoxidil is a lotion, now available over-the-counter. It is applied to the scalp twice daily. It prevents further hair loss in most people within two months of starting treatment. Within four to eight months, about 30 percent of people grow new hair that is long enough to be cut or combed. Success is greatest in younger people who have just begun to lose hair. Women appear to respond to minoxidil just as well as men do. Better success generally is seen with a higher strength (5-percent) solution. One caution: If you stop using minoxidil, you probably will lose all the hair that was retained or restored by the medication.
Finasteride is a prescription-only pill that blocks the formation of the type of testosterone that affects hair growth. Higher strengths of the same medication are used in men to stop non-cancerous (benign) growth of the prostate gland. Studies suggest that finasteride helps to prevent hair loss in up to 99 percent of men with hereditary-patterned baldness, and that two-thirds experience some new hair growth. As with minoxidil, any benefits from the medication are quickly lost once it is discontinued. In addition, a small number of men develop difficulty with sexual function.
Finasteride does not appear to prevent hair loss in women. It also may cause birth defects, and should not be used by any woman who could possibly get pregnant. However, other types of hormonal treatment (such as certain types of birth control pills) may help the minority of women with hair loss who have elevated levels of male hormones.
In some people, hair loss may be caused by certain hair treatments (straightening, coloring), hairstyles (tight braids) or hair pulling. Although these are not factors in most cases of hereditary-patterned baldness, they may contribute to hair loss and should certainly be discontinued.
A variety of other creams, oils, lotions and herbal remedies for hair loss are regularly advertised. However, only minoxidil and finasteride have been proven effective.
Some over-the-counter scalp treatments can cause irritation or harm and worsen hair loss.
Treatment
Minoxidil and finasteride can promote new hair growth in addition to preventing hair loss. This effect is quite unpredictable from one person to the next.
Hair weaves, wigs and toupees can be used. In addition, a variety of surgical techniques also can be used, including:
Scalp reduction — Strips of bald skin are removed surgically to decrease the size of a bald spot.
Hair flaps — A strip of skin with good hair growth can be moved from a less cosmetically important area to a more important one.
Hair transplants — Tiny plugs of skin containing from one to 15 hairs are moved from the back or side of the scalp to a bald area. The newer “micrografts,” which contain very few hairs, yield the best results, but are more expensive and time consuming than older types of transplants. Up to 700 individual grafts may be necessary to complete a treatment. It may take up to two years to see the full benefit of hair replacement surgery.
When To Call A Professional
Call a health care professional if you have any of the following symptoms; they can suggest a problem other than hereditary-patterned baldness:
Hair that falls out suddenly or in clumps
Patchy hair loss (“flea bitten” appearance)
Redness, flaking or scarring of the scalp in the area of hair loss
Hair loss in women under age 30
Signs of abnormally high testosterone levels in women, including abnormal menstrual periods, deepening of the voice, acne, hair loss in a male pattern or hair growth in unusual places (face, chest)
Most doctors or dermatologists will prescribe finasteride to men who would like to use it. If you are interested in cosmetic surgery, consult a cosmetic surgeon or dermatologist who specializes in hair restoration.
Prognosis
Unless a preventive treatment is started, hereditary hair loss becomes more pronounced over time. Generally, the earlier hair loss begins, the more severe it will become. Preventive treatment with minoxidil or finasteride must be continued indefinitely to maintain results.
Last revised:
Diseases and Conditions Center
A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z
All ArmMed Media material is provided for information only and is neither advice nor a substitute for proper medical care. Consult a qualified healthcare professional who understands your particular history for individual concerns.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Headlines
Preventing child obesity in the next generation…
It’s time to consider propranolol as an…
How long should children play video games?
E-cigarette vapor does not cause oxidative stress…
Heavy hitters: Obesity rate soars among professional…
Rap1, a potential new target to treat obesity
Belief about nicotine content in cigarette may…
You Can Stop Feeling Bad About Eating Chocolate
Overweight and obese type 2 patients show improvements…
Researchers explore epigenetic influences of chronic…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Most Read
Most Read
Marijuana use in adults
2009 H1N1 Influenza
Asthma
Top Proven Health Benefits of Fish Oil
Ectopic pregnancy
Successful aging: THE SECOND 50
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Avastin Eye Injection Treatment for Macular Degeneration
Hemorrhoids
New STELARA data show inhibition of joint destruction in…
Cancer News
UA Cancer Center team questions safety, efficacy of selenium…
Many adolescent girls with leukemia are not being screened…
Anti-tumor immunity identified with new ovarian cancer treatment…
Study examines survival outcomes after different lung cancer…
New strategy identified for treating acute myeloid leukemia
Saturated fatty acids linked to breast cancer in postmenopausal…
Study may help reassure women taking tamoxifen for breast…
High fruit intake during adolescence linked with lower breast…
Andrei Goga’s UCSF team finds new approaches to eradicate…
Study suggests testosterone therapy does not raise risk…
Mental News
Assisted dying for psychiatric disorders: Serious public…
PTSD linked to low levels of fat hormone
Clinicians need to screen ‘nicotine naive’ teenagers…
Post-traumatic stress disorder seen in many adults living…
ADHD medications associated with diminished bone health…
Antidepressant may improve cognitive symptoms in people…
Alcohol exposure during pregnancy affects multiple generations
Vulnerability to depression linked to noradrenaline
Gene study points towards therapies for common brain disorders
Diagnosing depression before it starts
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved