The Incredible Uses and Benefits of Aromatherapy Massage Oils
Follow Us:
Give tips on holistic health.
The Incredible Uses and Benefits of Aromatherapy Massage Oils
Aromatherapy massage oils are extracted from flowers and plants to provide us with healing and energy. The different types of oils are used, either individually or in combination with other oils, for treating different ailments.
Buzzle Staff
Last Updated: Mar 19, 2018
The word "Aromatherapy" can be divided into two words, "aroma" meaning fragrance and "therapy" meaning treatment. Flowers, plants, and their essences have been used for relaxation, healing, and energy since ancient times.
Aromatherapy is reputed to be at least 6000 years old and was used by the ancient civilizations of India, Egypt, and China. The Egyptians used the method of infusion to extract the oils from aromatic plants that were used for medicinal, cosmetic, and embalming purposes.
It is believed that the Chinese were also using some form of aromatics, at about the same time as the Egyptians. The oldest surviving medical book that dates back to 2700 B.C. contains information on about 300 plants. The Chinese burned aromatic wood and incense to show respect to God. Ayurveda, the traditional Indian field of medicine, that has been practiced for more than 3000 years, incorporates aromatic massage as one of its main aspects.
Benefits of Aromatherapy
The oils when applied to the body, are believed to aid in health and beauty.
When inhaled correctly into the lungs, they offer psychological and physical benefits. The aroma stimulates the brain to trigger a reaction and the natural constituents provide physical benefits.
Aromatherapy is also used to help cancer patients dealing with chemotherapy, depression, anxiety, tension, and sleep.
It also acts as a natural repellent and pesticide.
Essential Oils and their Uses
Bergamot
This oil is used in clinics to treat depression. Bergamot relaxes the brain when sniffed. It is cooling, refreshing and calming. It helps in treating insomnia, releases stress, and helps to deal with anxiety.
Cardamom
Cardamom is fresh and spicy. It encourages concentration, direction, straightforwardness, confidence, and courage.
Cypress
Cypress is said to stimulate skin circulation, therefore, it is used in massage blends to tone the muscles of the body. It is also very useful for cellulite, sore throat, varicose veins, muscle cramps, rheumatism, arthritis, stress, and nervous tension.
Lemon Eucalyptus
A soothing and calming oil with a strong sedative effect, lemon eucalyptus is used for muscle and joint aches; it is anti-inflammatory and antispasmodic. Apart from this, it is also a powerful antiseptic, used for athlete's foot, and fungal infections.
Fennel (sweet)
Sweet fennel essential oil has a scent that is warm and slightly sweet. It is used for digestive, nausea, and colic complaints. This oil also helps to keep the body and mind calm, and free of stress and tension.
Geranium
This is helpful for anxiety and stress relief. It balances female energy and hormones. It is wonderful for skin care, menopause, pre-menstrual syndrome and uplifting.
Helichrysum
This is one of the most ancient and valuable oils. It opens the heart, and connects the body and spirit. Helichrysum is used for healing scar tissue, old or new. It is also very effective for joint pains associated with rheumatoid arthritis. This oil is also anti-inflammatory with analgesic and pain reducing effects.
Jasmine Sambac
Jasmine is an antidepressant and aphrodisiac. Romantic and sensual, this oil bolsters confidence and optimism. It is helpful for anxiety, fear, and panic.
Peppermint
Peppermint is used for a host of problems like nausea, indigestion, headaches, liver problems, and inflammation. Since peppermint is anti-spasmodic, it is used in massage for sports injuries. It is stimulating to the mind, and provides mental concentration and memory. Pregnant women, in their 1st trimester, small children, and those with high blood pressure should avoid peppermint.
Some of the massage oils, for certain treatment methods, need to be diluted with some carrier oils, as they can prove harmful in their concentrated form.
Share This
Steam Shower Aromatherapy
Aromatherapy Candles Benefits
Scents That Help You Sleep Better
Chyawanprash as a Memory Booster
Health Benefits of Chyawanprash
Know How Chyawanprash is Your Immune System's Best Companion
Chyawanprash: The Secret to Healthy Weight Loss
Chyawanprash- The Best Remedy for Cough and Cold
Chyawanprash FAQs Answered
Chyawanprash: An Essential "Supplement" for Yogis
Rose Water Benefits
Neem Oil Benefits
Health Benefits of Turmeric
Himalayan Salt Benefits
Home Remedies for Removing Skin Moles
Chinese Massage Therapy
Red Tea Benefits
Clove Oil Uses
Camphor Uses
Peppermint Tea Benefits
Energy Bracelets - Do They Work?
Itchy Throat Remedy
Epsom Salt Substitutes
Natural Colon Cleansing Recipes
Back Massage Pressure Points
Headache Relief Pressure Points
Upset Stomach Remedies
Natural Cough Suppressant
Home Remedies for Lower Back Pain
Cherry Juice Benefits
Stomach Gas Remedies
Facts on Honey and Cinnamon
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service