Calm Your Migraines With These Tricks
Home
Privacy
Legal Disclaimer
Freshsein
Health
Natural Remedies
Herbs & Oils
Weight Loss
Recipes
Home & Gardening
Calm Your Migraines With These Tricks
More than 40 million people in the USA know the discomfort of extreme headaches. The throbbing ache, the nausea or vomiting, the sensitivity to light, the pressure in your neck and back-these are signs and symptoms that a lot of people are all too familiar with.
Although there are several over-the-counter therapies, like Aspirin, Aleve or Excedrin, usually these medications don’t do the job, or even worse, upset your abdomen on top of all the pain you’re going through.
Thankfully, there are quite a few natural remedies out there that will alleviate headaches and have you back in top form.
Lavender Oil
Boil six cups of water and add approximately eight drops of lavender oil to create a soothing vapor that relieves tension headaches as you inhale. You can also massage a few drops of lavender oil directly onto your temples.
Feverfew
Feverfew is most commonly provided as a supplement or extract, but it’s also available as a tea. Studies have shown that taking feverfew can prevent and treat migraines.
Banana & Ice Compress
According to the Mayo Clinic, apply a cold compress to your head and neck when you have migraine pain. Place a banana peel on your forehead along with the ice. Your skin absorb extra potassium, and you’ll feel much better.
Caffeine
As a migraine sufferer, you may already know that caffeine can help put a stop to your pain. In fact, a lot of pain-relieving medication aimed at headaches includes caffeine as an active ingredient, and for good reason. On its own, caffeine reduces the inflammation that can trigger a migraine.
When you combine caffeine with an over-the-counter headache medicine, you’ll feel relief faster, it’s reported to be 40 percent more effective, and the treatment may even keep working longer than a painkiller alone.
However, be mindful that it’s very easy to become addicted to caffeine, and with regular use, it can cause headaches due to withdrawal if you miss your regular dose.
Flaxseed
Recurring migraine headaches caused by inflammation can be treated by increasing the amount of omega-3 fatty acids in your diet. Ground flaxseeds and flaxseed oil are high in omega-3s. Try adding ground flaxseed to soup or salad, or use flaxseed oil as a base for salad dressing.
Butterbur
Taking 50 to 75 milligrams of butterbur (or petasites) in pill form twice per day is a proven migraine remedy. The extract of these beautiful flowers promotes better blood flow to the brain.
Basil Oil
Basil oil works as a natural muscle relaxant, which can help relieve headaches when they’re caused by muscle pain and tension. Use basil oil as a substitute for olive oil when cooking to help relax your muscles and ease migraine pain.
Read also: This Brilliant Trick Will Clear Your Stuffy Nose Within 2 Minutes
Buckwheat
Buckwheat is an excellent source of rutin, a flavonoid proven to reduce inflammation, which is a major cause of migraine headaches. Buckwheat is healthy and easy to prepare. Add it to your diet today.
Ginger
In 2014, a study showed ginger root powder had comparable benefits with fewer side effects than a commonly prescription migraine drug. Ginger also has anti-inflammatory properties to aid in keeping migraines at bay.
Aside from these natural remedies, you can be proactive and make lifestyle changes to reduce the frequency and severity of your migraines. Dietary changes can help, as well as a more relaxed lifestyle. Treat yourself to a massage. Try out yoga or meditation to relieve tension and stress. You may even want to look into acupuncture or biofeedback treatments if your migraines are extreme and persistent.
Most likely, though, you won’t need to go to these great lengths to quell your headaches. Give these eight natural remedies a try instead of reaching for over-the-counter medications.
Source
Source
-http://shareably.net/get-rid-of-migraines/
2017-04-24
admin
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Previous The Right Sleep Position If Suffer From Any Of These Health Conditions
Next The Easiest Ways To Clean Your Mattresses
This site is designed for educational purposes only and does not render medical advice or professional services. It is not a substitute for professional care. If you have or suspect you may have a health problem, you should consult your health care provider.
© Copyright 2018, All Rights Reserved