7 Ways To Treat A Fever Naturally | EatLoco
Home
About Us
Categories
Whole30 Recipes
Get Fit, Stay Fit
Nutrition
Healthy Kids
Healthy Pets
Healthy Recipes
Home Remedies
Smoothies
Tips for Your Garden
Wellness Tips & News
Health Food Stores
EatLoco Marketplaces
EatLoco Marketplaces
ChefScape Market
One Loudoun Market
Brambleton Market
Marketplace Events
Farmers Market Events
Meet the Musicians
Become a Vendor
Be a Marketplace Helper!
Marketplace News
Loco Trucks
Sponsors
Goodies
See How We’re Doing
EatLoCo Supporting Businesses
Newsletters
Shareable Logos
Chef’s Table
Contact Us
Select Page
7 Ways To Treat A Fever Naturally
Jul 19, 2017 | Home Remedies | 0 comments
THIS ARTICLE FIRST APPEARED ON MOMMYPOTAMUS.
I Like Math Just About As Much As The Next Mom
Counting baby toes, pennies and the number of times my son says “sooopooon” (spoon) in a day – all good stuff! But when it comes to my kids health, math rarely factors in. Why? Because I watch them, not the numbers. This is especially true with fevers.
I’m not alone, either. According to Dr. Hannah Chow-Johnson – pediatrician at Loyola University Health System and assistant professor of pediatrics at Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine – numbers may not be as significant as we tend to think.
“My most frequent calls are from worried parents who want to know how high is too high of a fever. What many parents don’t realize is that often, fevers are their child’s friend.
. . . . Fevers can actually help your child recover more quickly, especially if he or she is battling a viral illness . . . I often wish thermometers had a gauge that read either ‘fever’ or ‘no fever.’ That would definitely help parents who worry if their child has a fever that’s too high.”
“Seattle Mama Doc” On Fever Phobia
And then there’s Dr. Janice Sullivan, a professor of pediatric clinical care and clinical pharmacology at the University of Louisville School of Medicine, who told The Washington Post that “Fever is the body’s normal response to infection — it’s a natural defense mechanism.” She explains that a high temperature triggers the body’s production of infection-fighting white blood cells, which inhibits the growth of viruses and bacteria, and that “If you lower the fever, you may be affecting the body’s ability to respond to that infection.”
Can I just say that I LOVE these women?? Personally I’d avoid the use of fever reducers if possible – here is one of the many reasons why – but I am still **this** close to sending them a dozen orchids. Regarding when fevers may need the attention of a pediatrician, here’s what Dr. Swanson has to say:
“The main take home is not to treat fever per se, but your child. There is no reason to make a fever disappear if your child is otherwise acting well, playful, and staying hydrated. But do know there are some fevers that do require a visit with the pediatricians. It’s important to seek care when fever persists after 3 days in infants and children, any fever in a baby 3 month old or less, and if fever is over 104 degrees.”
AND HERE’S WHAT DR. CHOW-JOHNSON HAS TO SAY:
“Fevers are safe. A fever is the body’s way of controlling its immune response. Your child’s body is controlling the temperature and it’s going to fluctuate no matter what you do. Don’t awaken a child from a deep sleep to give medications for the fever. Sleep is more important.
Take oral temperatures when possible and rectal ones when not. Ear, sticker, pacifier and temporal artery thermometers are not reliable. Stick to a good, old-fashioned digital thermometer for the best accuracy. As far as how frequently a fever needs to be checked, once a day is sufficient.
There is not a maximum number on the thermometer that means go to the emergency room, unless your child stops drinking, urinating or responding well. But if children are doing all three, parents can monitor them from home.
Your goal should be your child’s comfort, not reducing the fever. Be generous with fluids, ice chips and popsicles. Dress children in light clothing and give tepid baths to help cool them down. Don’t use rubbing alcohol as this can be absorbed into the skin. Give fever reducers only if your child feels uncomfortable, not solely to reduce the temperature. And don’t alternate fever-reducing medications, as this could lead to overdosing or excessive medication that your child doesn’t need.
READ MORE…
Categories
Categories Select Category EatLoCo News Farms, Farmer’s Markets & Roadside Stands Get Fit, Stay Fit Gluten-free Healthy Kids Healthy Pets Home Remedies Nutrition Paleo Recipes Smoothies Tips for Your Garden Uncategorized Wellness Tips & News Whole30
Follow EatLoCo
Latest News
How To Make Naturally Dyed Easter Eggs
9 Natural Remedies for Seasonal Allergy Relief
3 Easy & Affordable Paleo Breakfasts To Start Your Day Off Right
10 Tips for Self-Care on a Budget or Busy Schedule
The EatLoco INDOOR
Farmers Market at Chefscape
Follow Us
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
Subscribe
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Leave this field empty if you're human:
EatLoco, LLC is an Official VA Based Company | 525-K E Market St #117, Leesburg, VA 20176 | Copyright 2019
Sign-up now - don't miss the fun!
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
reddit
LinkedIn
StumbleUpon
Like
Gmail
Print Friendly
X