Duct Tape Your Warts Away
Everything Natural — One Day at a Time!
Home
Contact
7 Feb 2019
Duct Tape Your Warts Away
Jump to comments
Posted in: Health in General
Duct Tape Your Warts Away
Duct Tape your Warts Away
Researchers from Washington, DC reported in the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine that covering your warts with duct tape is more effective than cyrotherapy where drops of liquid nitrogen is applied over several weeks to months to remove warts. This new technique called “Ductotherapy” eliminated warts in three quarters of the study participants in less than four weeks. Some reported that while they had tape covering only one wart, other warts disappeared too. Researchers believe that covering the warts with duct tape (the silver tape used to stop air from leaking from ducts) creates an area of localized irritation of the skin thereby rallying the immune system to roust the viral infection.
Ensure the place of application is dry and apply duct tape to your wart and leave it on for six days, then remove the tape, soak the body part that has the wart in water and brush away the dying skin with an emery board or pumice stone. After leaving the tape off overnight, apply a new piece of tape and repeat the ritual for no more than two months.
At the end of the study 85 percent of the patients in the tape group had no warts, compared with 60 percent in those receiving cryotherapy.
We don’t give warts enough focus. They are caused by the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) and a sign that our immune system is not fighting off the virus infection. Improving the diet, reducing stress and taking a multivitamin with minerals will aid immune function.
http://healthyimmunity.com/NewsLetters/hh-news-03.htm
Leave a Reply
Message:
Name*:
Email*:
Website:
CAPTCHA Code *
Categories
Additional Supplements
Alkaline diet
Anti-Cancer Products
Cancer
Cancer Facts
Detoxification
Devices for Cancer Patients
Diabetes
Diet and Nutrition
Disease & Conditions
e-book Links
Fibromyalgia
Health in General
Hypothyroidism
Latest
Latest News
LDL, HBP, et al
Nutritional Supplements
Polyerga
PolyMVA
Tests
Tian Xian
Welcome Messages
Copyright © anaturalcure.com.