Dupixent Prefilled Syringe Solution for injection - myDr.com.au
Toggle navigation
News
Conditions
Conditions
ADHD
Allergic rhinitis
Alzheimer's disease
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Autism
Bowel cancer
Breast cancer
Cancer
Chesty coughs
Chickenpox
Chlamydia
Cholesterol
Coeliac disease
Common cold
Constipation
COPD
Depression
Diabetes
Diverticulitis
Epilepsy
Fatty liver
Fibromyalgia
Genital herpes
GORD (reflux)
Gout
Haemorrhoids
Hair loss
Heart attack
Hepatitis
Hiatus hernia
High blood pressure
HIV and AIDS
Impotence
Menopause
Migraine
Neuropathic pain
Osteoporosis
Pain
Peptic ulcers
Pneumonia
Prostate cancer
Scabies
Schizophrenia
Sciatica
Shingles
Sinusitis
Skin cancer
Stroke
Thyroid gland disorders
Urticaria (hives)
Vaginal thrush
Vasectomy
Vertigo
Vulval problems
Whooping cough
Medicines
Medicines
Augmentin
Avil
Chlorsig
Daklinza
Duromine
Endep
Endone
Harvoni
Levlen
Lyrica
Mersyndol
Metrogyl
Panadeine Forte
Panefcortelone
Primolut
Restavit
Sovaldi
Stemetil
Viagra
Zentel
Find a Medicine
Medicines Centre
Symptoms
Symptoms
Back pain
Childhood rashes
Common cold
Depression
Fever
Fibromyalgia
Heart attack
Heel pain
Herpes
Leg ache
Leg cramps
Sciatica
Shingles
Stroke
Vaginal thrush
Vertigo
More symptoms
Lifestyle
Healthy Lifestyle
Addictions
Alcohol
Cholesterol
Exercise
Healthy eating
Healthy Weight
Heart health
Immunisation
Sleep
Smoking
Stress
Health Centres
Nutrition & Weight
Sports & Fitness
Tools
Medical Dictionary
Medical Dictionary
Health Tools
Baby Due Date Calculator
Basal Metabolic Rate Calculator
Body Mass Index (BMI) Calculator
Calories Burned Calculator
Child Energy Requirements Calculator
Daily Calcium Requirements Calculator
Daily Fibre Requirements Calculator
Ideal Weight Calculator
Infectious Diseases Exclusion Periods Tool
Ovulation Calculator
Smoking Cost Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Waist-to-hip Ratio Calculator
Risk Tests
Depression Self-Assessment
Erectile Dysfunction Tool
Macular Degeneration Tool
Osteoporosis Risk Test
Prostate Symptoms Self-Assessment
1-9ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
PDFLARGE FONT PDF
DUPIXENT®
dupilumab (du-pil-u-mab)
Consumer Medicine Information
What is in this leaflet
This leaflet answers some common questions about Dupixent.
It does not contain all the available information. It does not take the place of talking to your Dermatologist, Doctor or Pharmacist.
All medicines have risks and benefits. Your Doctor has weighed the risks of you using Dupixent against the benefits they expect it will have for you.
If you have any concerns about using this medicine, ask your Doctor or Pharmacist.
Keep this leaflet with the medicine. You may need to read it again.
What DUPIXENT is used for
Dupixent contains the active substance dupilumab.
Dupixent is used to treat moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (also known as atopic eczema), in adult patients.
Your doctor will assess if Dupixent is appropriate for your condition.
Dupixent may be used with or without prescribed atopic dermatitis medicines that you apply to skin.
How it works
Dupixent is an injectable prescription medicine that inhibits IL-4 and IL-13 proteins by blocking a shared receptor. IL-4 and IL-13 play a major role in the symptoms of atopic dermatitis.
Dupixent belongs to a class of medicines called monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies are proteins that specifically recognise and bind to other unique proteins in the body.
Ask your Doctor if you have any questions about why Dupixent has been prescribed for you.
Before you use DUPIXENT
When you must not use Dupixent
Do not use Dupixent if you have an allergy to:
any medicine containing dupilumab (the active ingredient) or any of the ingredients listed at the end of this leaflet
Some of the symptoms of an allergic reaction may include:
rash, itching or hives on the skin
shortness of breath
wheezing or difficulty breathing
swelling of the face, lips, tongue or other parts of the body
Tell your doctor if you are experiencing these symptoms
Dupixent should not be used after the expiry date (exp) printed on the pack. If you use this medicine after the expiry date has passed, it may not work as well, or have an unexpected effect.
Dupixent should not be used if the packaging is torn or shows signs of tampering.
Do not use Dupixent if the product appears cloudy, discoloured or contains particles, or if the syringe and/or needle cap appear damaged.
Do not use Dupixent in a child or adolescent. Dupixent has not been studied for use in children or adolescents under 18 years old.
If you are not sure whether you should start using this medicine, talk to your Doctor.
Before you start to use DUPIXENT
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have allergies to any other medicines, or substances such as foods, preservatives or dyes.
Tell your Doctor if you have any of the following, or if any of the following apply to you:
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known if Dupixent will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether Dupixent passes into breast milk.
have recently received or are scheduled to receive a vaccine
any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
have any other medical conditions
If you have not told your Doctor about any of the above, tell them before you start using Dupixent.
Taking other medicines
Tell your Doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any other medicines, have recently taken, or might take any other medicines, including any that you get without a prescription from your pharmacy, supermarket or health food shop. If you have asthma and are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your doctor.
You should not receive certain type of vaccine while taking Dupixent. Tell your Doctor if you have recently received a vaccine or planned to receive a vaccine.
How to use DUPIXENT
Dupixent comes as a single-dose (1 time use) pre-filled syringe with or without needle shield. Your healthcare provider will prescribe the type that is best for you. Follow all directions given to you by your doctor and pharmacist carefully.
Read carefully the "Dupixent Instructions for Use" provided in the carton.If you do not understand the instructions on the label or in this leaflet, ask your doctor or pharmacist for help.
How to use it
Always check the syringe label before each injection to make sure you are using the right medicine.
Dupixent is a clear and colourless to pale yellow solution that should not be shaken before use. Do not use Dupixent if it is not clear to pale yellow or if it contains particles.
To avoid discomfort, Dupixent should be removed from the refrigerator at least 45 minutes before your injection so that it reaches room temperature.
The syringe should not be exposed to heat or direct sunlight.
The injection can be self-administered or given by another person, after proper training in injection technique.
Dupixent syringes are pre-filled and ready to use. Once the contents have been injected, the syringe cannot be re-used.
Never use a syringe if it is damaged, or you are not sure that it is working properly. Use a new syringe.
Use the syringe within 14 days after taking it out of the refrigerator.
Dupixent is intended for injection under the skin.
If you do not understand the instructions, ask your Doctor or Pharmacist.
How much to use
Use the dose that your doctor prescribes for you.
Dupixent is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneously) once every two weeks.
Where to inject
Dupixent is injected under the skin (subcutaneous injection). You can inject into the thigh or abdomen, except for the 2 inches (5 cm) around the navel, using a single-dose pre-filled syringe. If somebody else administers the injection, the upper arm can also be used. Use a different injection site each injection so that the same site is not used.
Do not inject in an area where the skin that is tender, damaged, sunburnt or has bruises or scars.
Do not inject Dupixent with other injectable medicines, at the same injection site.
How long to use Dupixent
Continue using Dupixent for as long as your doctor recommends.
Make sure you keep enough Dupixent to last when you go on holidays.
If you forget to use it
If you forget to use Dupixent, then administer the dose as soon as possible. Thereafter, resume dosing at the regular scheduled time.
In case you are not sure when to inject Dupixent, call your doctor or pharmacist.
It is important to use Dupixent as prescribed by your doctor.
If you take too much (overdose)
Immediately telephone your doctor or the Poisons Information Centre (13 11 26) or go to accident and emergency at your nearest hospital, if you think that you have taken too much Dupixent. Do this even if there are no signs of discomfort or poisoning. You may need urgent medical attention.
Always take the outer carton of the medicine with you.
While you are using DUPIXENT
If you experience any symptoms of an allergic reaction, stop using Dupixent and talk to your doctor immediately.
Things you must do
Always follow your doctor’s instructions carefully.
Keep Dupixent in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. Do not expose to extreme heat.
Dupixent should be removed from the refrigerator at least 45 minutes before your injection to avoid discomfort.
Dupixent should not be exposed to heat or direct sunlight.
It is important to keep using Dupixent even if you feel well.
Continuous use of Dupixent helps to control your condition.
If you become pregnant while you are using Dupixent, tell your doctor.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any other medicines, including any that you get without a prescription from your pharmacy, supermarket or health food shop. If you have asthma and are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your doctor.
If you are about to be started on any new medicine, tell your doctor and pharmacist that you are taking Dupixent.
Things you must not do
Do not use Dupixent if you think it has been frozen or exposed to excessive heat (temperatures above 25°C).
Do not give Dupixent to anyone else, even if they have the same condition as you.
Do not stop taking your medicine without checking with your doctor.
Things to be aware of
Dupixent is unlikely to influence your ability to drive and use machines.
Side effects
Tell your Doctor as soon as possible if you do not feel well while you are using Dupixent.
All medicines can have side effects. Sometimes they are serious, most of the time they are not. You may need medical attention if you get some of the side effects.
Do not be alarmed by the following lists of side effects. You may not experience any of them.
Ask your Doctor or Pharmacist to answer any questions you may have.
Tell your doctor if you notice any of them and they worry you or it does not go away:
Injection site reactions
eye and eyelid inflammation (including redness/swelling/ itching)
oral herpes (cold sores)
Dupixent can cause serious side effects, including: generalized allergic (hypersensitivity) reactions can happen after you get your Dupixent injection.
If you have any signs of allergic (hypersensitivity) reaction stop using Dupixent, tell your Doctor immediately or go to Accident and Emergency at your nearest hospital.
These are not all of the possible side effects of Dupixent. Call your Doctor for medical advice about side effects.
Other side effects not listed above may also occur in some patients. Tell your doctor if you notice anything else that is making you feel unwell.
After using DUPIXENT
Storage
All medicines should be kept where children cannot reach them.
Before use, keep Dupixent syringes in a refrigerator where the temperature is between 2-8°C. If necessary, pre-filled syringes can be kept at room temperature up to 25°C for a maximum of 14 days. Keep the syringes in the original carton to protect from light. Do not allow it to freeze. Discard if frozen.
Do not expose to heat. Do not shake.
If you need to travel, make sure the medicine is kept at the right temperature. This is important whether travelling by car, bus, train, plane or any other form of transport.
Disposal
After injecting Dupixent, immediately throw away the used pre-filled syringe in a sharps container as instructed by your doctor or pharmacist.
If your Doctor tells you to stop using Dupixent or the expiry date has passed, ask your Pharmacist what to do with any medicine that is left over.
Product description
What it looks like
Dupixent is a clear and colourless to pale yellow, preservative-free liquid solution.
Dupixent is provided in a pre-filled syringe with or without needle shield that delivers a 300 mg dose of Dupixent in 2 mL solution.
The needle shield reduces the risk of accidental needle stick injuries.
Ingredients
Active Ingredient:
dupilumab 300 mg
Inactive Ingredients:
acetic acid,
arginine hydrochloride,
histidine,
polysorbate 80,
sodium acetate,
sucrose,
water for injections
Supplier
Dupixent is supplied in Australia by:
sanofi-aventis australia pty ltd
12-24 Talavera Road
Macquarie Park NSW 2113
Freecall No: 1800 818 806
sanofi-aventis new zealand limited
Level 8, James and Wells Tower
56 Cawley Street, Ellerslie,
Auckland
New Zealand
Freecall No:0800 283 684
Dupixent 300 mg/2mL pre-filled syringe
AUST Rs 283127, 282981
This leaflet was prepared in February 2018.
dupi-ccdsv2-cmiv3-12feb18
Published by MIMS April 2018
Consumers should be aware that the information provided by the Consumer Medicines Information (CMI) search (CMI Search) is for information purposes only and consumers should continue to obtain professional advice from a qualified healthcare professional regarding any condition for which they have searched for CMI. CMIs are provided by MIMS Australia. CMI is supplied by the relevant pharmaceutical company for each consumer medical product. All copyright and responsibility for CMI is that of the relevant pharmaceutical company. MIMS Australia uses its best endeavours to ensure that at the time of publishing, as indicated on the publishing date for each resource (e.g. Published by MIMS/myDr January 2007), the CMI provided was complete to the best of MIMS Australia's knowledge. The CMI and the CMI Search are not intended to be used by consumers to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease or for any therapeutic purpose. Dr Me Pty Limited, its servants and agents shall not be responsible for the continued currency of the CMI, or for any errors, omissions or inaccuracies in the CMI and/or the CMI Search whether arising from negligence or otherwise or from any other consequence arising there from.
You may also like
Related Articles
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
Leukaemia
Skin cancer treatment options
Rheumatoid arthritis: prescription medicines
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
Chronic hepatitis B infection
Advertisement
Latest News
Video: Scarce fertility awareness for young people
Video: All it takes is 5 nights of bad sleep
Video: Poor diet responsible for 1 in 5 deaths
Video: Flu awareness
Video: Measles - global outbreak
Video: Private Health Insurance reforms
This web site is intended for Australian residents and is not a substitute for independent professional advice. Information and interactions contained in this Web site are for information purposes only and are not intended to be used to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Further, the accuracy, currency and completeness of the information available on this Web site cannot be guaranteed. Tonic Digital Media Pty Ltd, its affiliates and their respective servants and agents do not accept any liability for any injury, loss or damage incurred by use of or reliance on the information made available via or through myDr whether arising from negligence or otherwise. See Privacy Policy and Disclaimer.
2001-2019 myDr.com.au © | All Rights Reserved
About Us
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Sitemap