Bright Light Therapy Effective Treatment for Bipolar Disorder - Thriveworks Bright Light Therapy Effective Treatment for Bipolar Disorder - Thriveworks
Counseling & Coaching
You can thrive. We can help.
Counseling News
Find a Counselor
Online Counseling
Main Site
Bright Light Therapy Effective Treatment for Bipolar Disorder
by Taylor Bennett | Oct 13, 2017 | Counseling News, Mental Health | 0 comments
Tagged with: bipolar disorder • disorder • mental health
Bipolar disorder is a mental illness characterized by extreme mood swings and emotional highs and lows. Formerly known as manic depression, the condition can leave its victims feeling hopeless and uninterested one minute, but happy and full of energy the next. These changes in mood and emotions negatively impact one’s sleep, judgment, behavior, and aptitude to think clearly, making it vital for individuals with bipolar disorder to get help. Unfortunately, however, effective treatments for the illness are limited—but the science community is optimistic about the future of bipolar disorder treatment as a new study “Adjunctive Bright Light Therapy for Bipolar Depression: A Randomized Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial” finds that bright light therapy administered at midday can improve symptoms of depression as well as everyday functioning in bipolar individuals.
Former studies have found that bright light therapy administered in the morning triggered harmful side effects in patients with bipolar disorder, such as mania. But a team of researchers wondered if midday light therapy would have similar or differing effects. So, they conducted an experiment, which involved 46 participants with moderate depression, bipolar disorder, and who were on a mood stabilizer, to find out. These participants were randomly assigned to one of two lights: a 7,000-lux bright white light or a 100-lux placebo light. They were then instructed to place the light one foot away from their face for multiple 110-minute sessions to kick off the experiment. And as the weeks continued, they began to increase their exposure by 110-minute augmentations until they reached 60 minutes per day or until they experienced a significant change in mood.
The researchers found that those who were exposed to bright white light between noon and 2:30 p.m. for six weeks experienced a much higher remission rate—or minimal depression and normal functioning—than those who were assigned to the placebo light. Additionally, more than 68% of participants who received the midday bright light therapy achieved a normal mood, compared with 22.2% who received the placebo light. And to round out their promising findings, the participants that received bright light therapy had a much lower average depression score of a 9.2 compared to 14.9 for the placebo group, as well as greater levels of functioning; they were able to return to work and/or assume regular tasks around the house.
“Effective treatments for bipolar depression are very limited,” says Dr. Dorothy Sit, lead author and associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. “This gives us a new treatment option for bipolar patients that we know gets us a robust response within four to six weeks.” Furthermore, it is a treatment that comes with little to no side effects, as none of the participants experienced mania or hypomania, which brings with it irritability, agitation, and risk-taking behaviors. “As clinicians, we need to find treatments that void these side effects and allow for a nice, stable response. Treatment with bright light at midday can provide this,” asserts Sit.
Effectiveness of light therapy in bipolar patients was initially tested in the morning at awakening because research has shown that morning light can be helpful to patients with another disorder: seasonal affective disorder (SAD), which is a type of depression that comes and goes with the seasons. But past studies show that this does not remain true in bipolar patients; instead, bright light therapy can be effective for them if administered at midday, according to this study. As to why this is the case, researchers are not quite sure. But Sit and the rest of the team are already planning other studies to investigate and better understand the link between midday bright light and circadian rhythms in bipolar patients.
Source: Northwestern University “Bright Light Therapy at Midday Helps Bipolar Patients.” NeuroscienceNews. NeuroscienceNews, 10 October 2017.
<http://neurosciencenews.com/bipolar-bright-light-midday-7712/>.
Original Research: Abstract for “Adjunctive Bright Light Therapy for Bipolar Depression: A Randomized Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial” by Dorothy K. Sit, M.D., James McGowan, B.A., Christopher Wiltrout, B.S., Rasim Somer Diler, M.D., John (Jesse) Dills, M.L.S., James Luther, M.A., Amy Yang, M.S., Jody D. Ciolino, Ph.D., Howard Seltman, M.D., Ph.D., Stephen R. Wisniewski, Ph.D., Michael Terman, Ph.D., Katherine L. Wisner, M.D., M.S. in American Journal of Psychiatry. Published online October 7 2017 doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2017.16101200
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Find A Counselor
Popular This Month
Virtual Reality Stimulations Help Anxiety Sufferers Combat Their Fears
Dogs improve your overall wellbeing: they help to reduce stress, promote an active lifestyle, strengthen your immune system, and more
Are cats or dogs more intelligent? Recent study says that, despite popular belief, dogs are smarter
Popular This Week
Virtual Reality Stimulations Help Anxiety Sufferers Combat Their Fears
20 minutes sitting, walking outside found to lower stress! (Video)
Brain exercises and socialization can prevent cognitive decline! (Video)
Popular All-time
Having a High IQ May Lead to Increased Risk of Mental Illness
New Serotonin Study Suggests Psychedelics May Effectively Treat Mental Illness
How to Forgive Yourself: Letting Go of Past Regrets
Download Now
Trending Categories
Mental Health
Happiness
Relationships
Health & Exercise
Depression
Family
Fun
Life
Stress and Anxiety
Empowerment
Disorder
Career and Money
Children
News
Marriage
Communication
Mental Illness
Addiction
Achieving Goals
Anxiety
Gallery
Parenting
Mindfulness
Video
Holidays
Life Hacks
Eating Disorder
Forgiveness
Loneliness
Boundaries
Worry
Mental Health Billing
Counseling Topics
All-time Popular Posts
Having a High IQ May Lead to Increased Risk of Mental Illness
New Serotonin Study Suggests Psychedelics May Effectively Treat Mental Illness
How to Forgive Yourself: Letting Go of Past Regrets
The Top 10 Websites that Destroy Relationships and Marriages
Study Reveals the Desire to Drink Alcohol at Night Is Due to Our Brain’s Immune System
The Counseling Intake Process: What Counselors Need to Consider
Popular This Month
Sports fan depression is real: Did your team lose last night?
How to Sell Your Counseling Private Practice (Expanded)
Does lying doom relationships? Can I come back from betraying my partner’s trust?
Do I have agoraphobia? What is it like to have a fear of open or crowded spaces?
Virtual Reality Stimulations Help Anxiety Sufferers Combat Their Fears
How can I catch a liar in the act? Here are 5 foolproof ways to tell if someone’s lying
Interested in writing for us?
Read our guidelines
Home » Counseling News » Bright Light Therapy Effective Treatment for Bipolar Disorder
Arizona
Tucson
Arkansas
Conway
Maumelle
Colorado
Aurora
Colorado Springs
Littleton
Westminster
Delaware
Dover
Wilmington
Georgia
Alpharetta
Atlanta
Cumming
Decatur
Kennesaw
Marietta
McDonough
Peachtree City
Massachusetts
Amherst
Cambridge (Central Square)
Cambridge (Harvard Square)
Franklin
Newton
Stoughton
Waltham
Westborough
Maryland
Germantown
Michigan
Birmingham
Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo
Nevada
Las Vegas
New Jersey
Cherry Hill
New York
Buffalo
North Carolina
Charlotte
Charlotte (South)
Durham
Raleigh
Pennsylvania
Allentown
Bethlehem
Media
Philadephia (Center City)
Philadelphia (JFK Blvd.)
Philadelphia (Walnut St.)
Reading
Willow Grove
South Carolina
Columbia
Greenville
Mt. Pleasant
Rock Hill
Tennessee
Bristol
Knoxville
Johnson City
Texas
North Austin
Southwest Austin
Bastrop
Cedar Park
Georgetown
Pflugerville
Round Rock
West Lake Hills
Virginia
Alexandria
Blacksburg
Charlottesville
Chesapeake
Chesterfield
Fredericksburg
Hanover
Lynchburg
Manassas
McLean
Midlothian
Newport News
Richmond
Roanoke
Short Pump
Sterling
Virginia Beach
See All Locations
Hide Locations
We believe that everyone can benefit from counseling or coaching with a skilled and caring professional.
Let's keep in touch!*
General Interest, News and Self-Help
Tips and Info for Providers in Practice
*
Quick Links
Find A Counselor
About Us
Discussion Board
Credentialing
Counseling Jobs
Private Practice
Franchise
How can we help you?
All Topics…
Beginning Therapy
Breakups
Child Therapy
Couples
Depression
Grief
Loneliness
Parenting
PTSD
Self-Care
Self-Improvement
Suicide Awareness
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
© 2018 Thriveworks Counseling | Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Print Friendly