Healing Options for Asthma - TeddyCanBlog
TeddyCanBlog
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
Home
Health & Wellness
TeddyCan
Travel
About
Contact Us
Join Support Group for Healing
Healing Diary
Search for:
Healing via Technologies
Healing Options for Asthma
August 15, 2016 teddycanblog
“Healing doesn’t mean the damage never existed. It means the damage no longer controls your life” – Akshay Dubey
“Asthma (AZ-ma) is a chronic (long-term) lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. Asthma causes recurring time period of wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe), tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing. The coughing often occurs at night or early in the morning. The various symptoms and types are discussed at the bottom.
Asthma affects people of all ages, but it most often starts during childhood. In the United States, more than 25 million people are known to have asthma. About 7 million of these people are children.”
This Data Driven Healing Communication (DDHC) is getting updated as new information is available.
Click here if you do not see the full report
Keywords: Asthma home, Asthma Yoga, Asthma Ayurvedic, Asthma natural
(This is just like a Google search result page created for the symptoms or disorders. We are not responsible for any consequences. Use at your own discretion. The order of these remedies has been determined by algorithms depending on their relevancy for the following healing solutions. For each remedy, we have also assigned a score generated by our machine learning algorithm according to their weighting in healing this particular disease. For more details please visit us at: http://teddycan.com/heal/terms-and-conditions.php)
If you find these remedies helpful, we can upgrade your healing process. For more information, visit TeddyCanHeal.Com . We have also opened an anonymous Survey that will help us to improve our healing solutions, as well as help you more efficiently. We welcome you to participate if you would like a more specialized Path to Healing.
“Bronchial asthma is a serious global health problem. 5% to 10% of persons of all ages suffer from this chronic airway disorder. This review article presents important considerations of diagnosis and treatment in view of the current national and international asthma guidelines.” [ncbi]
Yoga Remedies
Many people suggest that individuals battling respiratory diseases like asthma should avoid physical activities. However, this does not have to be the case. In fact, exercises like yoga help in easing the symptoms of asthma. Yoga provides asthma relief by improving lung functioning and relieving overall symptoms.
So, here are some yoga poses for asthma:
Pranayama (Breathing) – “It is the best yoga pose for those suffering from respiratory issues. Sit with your spine, neck, and head in a straight line and legs crossed. Close your eyes with your hands on knees and breathe through your abdomen in a few rapid and slow breaths. Do this for 1-2 minutes and with 10 seconds breaks in-between.”
Savasana (Corpse pose) –“ Lie down on your back with eyes closed. Now spread your arms and legs, slightly falling outward. Your palms should be facing up, relax and take a slow, deep breath. Remain in this pose for at least 5-10 minutes.”
Sukhasana (Easy sitting pose) – “Sit with crossed legs and spine, neck and head in straight line. Then close your eyes and put hands on the chest in a prayer position. You can also use a pillow or a roll-up towel under your legs or hips to give support. Now hold the position for 3-5 minutes while breathing slowly.”
Baddha Konasana (Butterfly Pose) –“ This pose gives relief to asthmatics. Sit with the soles of the feet together and drop your knees out. Hold the joined soles with your hands and your knees in a butterfly wings position. Inhale and exhale deeply for 1 minute.”
Vibhaajan Mudra (Straddled Splits) – “In this pose, sit down with your legs straddled or open wide apart and heels flexed. Stretch your arms out, arms and legs should be parallel to each other. Inhale and exhale slowly and hold the pose for five to ten deep breaths. You can also put your hands down on the floor for support.”[1]
Herbal Remedies
Turmeric –“Turmeric has been used in Ayurvedic treatments to relieve asthmatic inflammation. It dilates blood vessels, relaxes muscles spasms, and improves air flow. Turmeric is available in capsule or tinctures, or make your own golden healing milk and drink up to 3 times a day to find relief.”
Ginger – “Ginger reduces inflammation and improves the muscle relaxing effect of certain asthma drugs. Ginger can be added to your smoothies, tea, or dishes. Or you could try the following mixture: mix equal parts of ginger juice, pomegranate juice, and honey. Consume 1 tablespoon of the mixture 2 to 3 times a day to find relief. Read here more about how to use ginger as a medicine.”
Garlic –“Garlic will help you to clear congestions to find quick relief. You could make garlic tea or soup, but if you can bear the taste, eating raw garlic is best.”
Parsley Leaf -“ Parsley leaf tea works as an expectorant and helps to reduce coughing. Keep in mind that parsley leaves also works as a diuretic, so use with caution.”
Mullein –“Mullein tea helps to relieve asthmatic spasm and reduce coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath.”
Onions –“Onions are loaded with sulphur which helps to decrease inflammation of the lungs. Raw onions are the best to clear congested airways and improve breathing.”
Ginkgo Biloba –“ Works well to reduce wheezing and improves breathing.”
Butterbur – “Works anti-inflammatory and reduces muscle spasms, especially for allergic induced asthma. Eliminate dairy as much as possible.”
“Eat organic as much as possible to avoid pesticides and GMOs.”
“Replace animal protein with plant-based protein or opt for organic hormone- and antibiotic-free meat.”
“Eliminate polyunsaturated oils, margarines, and avoid deep-fried foods.”
“Eliminate sugar, soy, gluten, and wheat for 6 to 8 weeks and see what happens. Many of us are allergic to those and that can cause inflammation and asthma attacks”
“Add more onions, garlic, ginger, and turmeric to your daily diet for their anti-inflammatory properties.”
“Improve omega-3 and omega-6 ratio.”
“Stay hydrated, drink plenty of pure water and avoid caffeine, alcohol, and sugary beverages.”
“Although nuts contain many beneficial nutrients some people are allergic to them and may trigger asthmatic reactions.”
“Add magnesium rich food to your diet or opt for magnesium supplements. Magnesium helps to relax muscle spasms and shows beneficial effects on breathing. Foods rich in magnesium include dark leafy greens, nuts and seeds, fish, beans and lentils, avocado and banana.”
“Vitamin C is another important nutrient to reduce asthmatic attacks and find relief. Eat more vitamin C rich foods and start your day with lukewarm lemon water. Foods rich in vitamin C include red pepper, guava, dark leafy greens, kiwifruit, berries, broccoli, citrus fruits, tomato, and papaya.”
Peppermint Oil – “This is a folk treatment often used to get a homemade vaporizer: Simply boil one quart of water on the stove with ten drops of peppermint essential oil. Allow it to simmer for approximately 1 hour, till all the water is finished. The room’s air will be saturated by this volatile essential oil.”
Ginger – “Ginger is a well known natural remedy for assorted ailments, including asthma. Combine equivalent amounts of pomegranate juice, ginger juice, and honey. Take one tablespoon of the mixture two times a day. You can do three times a day for more severe cases. You may also eat raw ginger blended with salt.”
Garlic – “One of garlic’s benefits is in helping to clear out blockage in your lungs, thus providing you with speedy relief from an asthma attack. You can make tea with the addition of a few cloves of garlic into a pot of hot water that is boiled and steeped for 5 minutes. Let it cool down to the temperature of the room and drink it.”
Eucalyptus Oil – “Simply place some globules of eucalyptus essential oil on a paper towel and make sure it stays by your face when sleeping so you breathe it all in during the night. This will help you to breath better by clearing up your lungs.”
Mullein Tea – “Mullein oil is employed to fight respiratory blockage. The leaves may also be used to help with a cold, and they relieve many other respiration problems as well.”
Turmeric – “For hundreds of years, the Chinese used turmeric to relieve their asthma attacks. Apart from relieving these asthma attacks, turmeric can be utilized as a treatment for a wide range of ailments like fevers, colds, and the flu. Turmeric has bactericide, carminative, stimulant, astringent, and antiseptic properties.” [2] , [3]
Ayurvedic Remedies
“Honey is one of the most common home cures for asthma. A jug of honey is held beneath the nose of an asthma patient and he inhales the air that comes into contact by means of it, he starts breathing easier and deeper. A very beneficial remedy for asthma.”
“Amongst fruits, figs have proved very precious in asthma. They provide comfort to the patient by means of draining off the phlegm. Three or four dry figs must be cleaned thoroughly with warm water and soaked during the night.”
“Lemon is also more fruit found useful in the treatment of asthma. The juice of one lemon, diluted in a glass of water and taken with meals, will bring good quality results. A very beneficial remedy for asthma.”
“Take a steam inhalation of eucalyptus or lavender essential oils just during an attack and immediately afterward to ease panic and help open airways.”
“The Indian gooseberry has also proved precious in asthma. Five grams of gooseberry mixed with one tablespoon of honey forms a very useful medicinal tonic for the treatment of this ailment. And also this mixture must be taken in the morning.”
“Make a mixture of 1/4 cup of onion juice, 1 teaspoon honey and 1/8 teaspoon black pepper. It gives immediate relief from congestion and alleviates breathlessness. A very beneficial remedy for asthma.”
“Mix mustard oil with little camphor and massage it over the chest. This will loosen up phlegm and help in breathing.”
“The roots of the bitter gourd plant are also beneficial for asthma. A teaspoon of the root paste, mixed with an identical amount of honey or juice of the Tulsi leaves, given once every night for a month, acts as an exceptional medicine for this disease.”
“With asthma, a soup prepared from drumstick leaves, can be taken once daily. Adding a handful of leaves to 180ml of water and boiling it for five minutes prepare this soup. After being allowed to cool, a little salt, pepper, and lime juice might be added to this soup. A very useful remedy for asthma. “
“A teaspoon of fresh ginger juice, mixed with a cup of fenugreek decoction and adding honey to taste, acts as a brilliant expectorant in cases of asthma. The decoction of fenugreek can be made by addition of one tablespoon of fenugreek seeds in a cupful of water. This remedy must be taken once in the morning and once in the evening. One benefits the most from this home remedy for asthma.”
“Garlic is an additional effective home remedy for asthma. Take at least ten garlic cloves, boiled in 30 ml of milk; create an excellent medicine for the early stages of asthma. This mixture must be taken once each day, a very potent home remedy for asthma.”
“Steaming ginger tea with two minced garlic cloves in it can also help to keep the trouble under control, and must be taken in the morning and evening.”
“The patient must keep away from common nutritional errors also at all times. Ideally, his diet must contain a limited amount of carbohydrates, fats and proteins which are ‘acid-forming’ foods, and a liberal amount of alkali-forming foods consisting of fresh fruits, green vegetables, sprouted seeds, and grains.”
“The patient must avoid foods, which tend to produce phlegm, such as rice, sugar, lentils, and curds. He must also avoid fried and other difficult-to-digest foods, strong tea, coffee, alcoholic beverages, condiments pickles, sauces and all refined and processed foods.” [4]
Home Remedies
1.Track Your Asthma Triggers
“The first thing you need to do to manage your asthma is to avoid all the allergens that cause asthma to you! What if you don’t know them? You simply need to be a little more alert about what you eat, do or where and when you go and you will find out what triggers your asthma. For this, you can maintain a log (preferably a small notebook that you can carry with you always.) Now jot down important pointers when you feel your asthma is getting worse. Some of the questions that you can ask yourself to know what all triggers your asthma are mentioned below.”
“Where were you when your asthma deteriorated? You could be at home, work, school, market, airport and so on.”
“What was near or around you when you felt that your asthma is resurfacing? It can be your pet, some food, dust, flowers, someone smoking, or any other thing.”
“What were you doing when your asthma worsened? You might have been smoking, exercising, sleeping, cleaning, watching film, quarrelling with someone or even laughing.”
“At what time do you often feel the symptoms of asthma? It can be morning, afternoon, evening, night, cold or hot weather.”
“Once you are aware of the allergens or triggers that cause asthma attacks, you can easily avoid them and also take the right steps to cure your particular type of asthma.”
2. Fenugreek Seeds, Honey, Ginger Remedy for Asthma
“This is an Ayurvedic remedy for asthma using the wonder spice fenugreek seeds along with ginger and honey. Honey is very good for your respiratory tract. The components of ginger like gingerols, shogaols and zingerones have anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties that are beneficial in curing asthma. In fact, a study conducted by the American Thoracic Society International Conference found that when ginger compounds were added to isoproterenol (asthma medication), it became more effective. Fenugreek is also a very effective remedy for curing any respiratory problems, including asthma and bronchitis.”
“Get these:
Fenugreek seeds- 2 tbsp
Ginger paste (make it from fresh ginger root)- 2 tsp
Honey- 1 tsp
Water- 1 litre
Do these:
Add the fenugreek seeds to water.
Let the water with fenugreek seeds simmer for half an hour.
Strain the water after 30 minutes.
Put the ginger paste into a sieve and press to extract it’s juice.
Add this ginger juice to the water you just strained.
Add honey to this solution and mix well.
Drink a glass of this fenugreek, ginger, and honey treated water every morning.”
3. Gooseberry Remedy for Asthma
“The Indian gooseberry or amla is one of the best sources of vitamin C. This vitamin is a fine antioxidant which can fight off the free radicals produced within the lungs when you have an asthma attack. It also contains vitamin A which can cure respiratory tract infections- your asthma is one of these infections! Additionally, the anti-inflammatory properties of gooseberry soothe your tensed air passages.
“Get these:
Indian gooseberry powder- 1 tsp (if you can’t get the powder, use 1 gooseberry)
Honey- 1 tsp
Do these:
If using a whole gooseberry, de-seed and crush it to get its paste.
Mix the honey with this paste or the gooseberry powder that you have got.
Have this every morning so that you don’t get asthma attack during the day.”
4. Honey Remedies for Asthma
“With its many amino acids, antioxidants, and vitamins, honey is one of the most popular ingredients used traditionally for asthma relief. When you experience an asthma attack, your airways become inflamed and constricted making it difficult for you to breathe. Honey can effectively soothe the mucous membranes of your airways, giving you relief from coughing related to asthma. Honey is especially recommended for children who struggle with night-time coughing. Here are some methods to use honey for asthma symptom relief:
Ways to use honey for asthma
“Mix 1 teaspoon of honey with ½ tsp of cinnamon powder and have this once every day.
Mix 1 tsp of honey with a glass of water and have it every morning.
Add 1 tsp of honey with ½ tsp of thyme powder and have it 2-3 times a day.
Take 1 tsp honey, ¼ cup of onion juice, and 1/8 tsp of black pepper. Have this mixture for instant relief from breathlessness and chest congestion due to asthma coughing.
Mix 1 tbsp honey with ½ tsp of dried sunflower seeds powder. Have this twice a day.
Fill a bowl with honey. Hold this bowl beneath your nose and inhale. This will bring relief when you feel breathless.
Mix 1 tsp of honey with 1 cup of warm water. Have this every night before going to sleep.”
5. Drumstick Leaves Soup for Asthma Cure
“Various parts of the Drumstick tree, also called Moringa tree, are used for treating different types of ailments. For asthma, the leaves of the drumstick trees are used to prepare a soup. Many studies have shown that Moringa plant alkaloid is similar to ephedrine (decongestant) and is effective in the treatment of asthma as this alkaloid relaxes bronchioles. Make a soup with drumstick leaves and have it once every day to cure your asthma.”[5]
Causes of Asthma
“In many cases, asthma is triggered by a substance you are allergic to, such as:
house dust mites
molds and fungi
pollen
animal hair
environmental pollution such as car exhaust fumes
smoking or breathing in second-hand cigarette smoke
alcohol
recreational drugs
certain medications
certain foods”
“Asthma can also be triggered by:
“exercise
anxiety and stress
laughter
respiratory tract infections such as colds and flu
hormones (in women)
changes in weather”
“Sometimes it will be obvious that something causes your asthma symptoms : for example, when you pet a cat or dog and then shortly afterward your symptoms appear. Other triggers are harder to identify, for example, grass pollen might bring on your asthma without you ever noticing. There may also be more than one trigger involved in setting off your asthma, and sometimes the symptoms might not show up until a while after you’ve come into contact with the trigger.
“A good tip when trying to pinpoint what is causing asthma is to keep a diary of where you were and what you were doing when you noticed your symptoms begin to flare up so that you can spot if certain things are present every time.”
“Once you have identified what causes your symptoms it is easier to try to avoid those things and reduce the risk of setting off asthma symptoms or making them worse.”
Symptoms of Asthma
“The symptoms of asthma range from mild to severe (around 5% of asthma sufferers are diagnosed with severe asthma). “
The symptoms of asthma include:
“wheezing (a whistling sound that is worse when exhaling)
coughing
breathlessness and difficulty breathing
tightness in the chest”
“Asthma symptoms can be worse at night and when you first wake up in the morning. They can also start or worsen when exposed to certain triggers. “
“It is very important that even those with mild asthma get treated and agree on an asthma management plan with their doctor, as all asthma symptoms can be very dangerous and even fatal if left untreated.
Symptoms of Asthma Attack
The warning signs of a severe asthma attack include:
“wheezing, tightness in the chest and coughing becoming severe
asthma symptoms becoming constant
you can’t speak because you can’t breathe well enough
difficulty sleeping or eating because you are too breathless
your reliever inhaler doesn’t work as well or doesn’t work at all to relieve symptoms
fast heartbeat
faster breathing
feeling sleepy or dizzy
lips and fingers turn blue”
“These symptoms are very serious and you must call 999 for an ambulance immediately.”
Types of Asthma
“Doctors differentiate between different types of asthma depending on what is causing the condition to flare up. This includes:”
“Allergic asthma– caused by a reaction to an allergen
Occupational asthma– caused by a reaction to an allergen or irritant at work
Exercise-induced asthma– your airways narrow when you exercise
Cough-variant asthma– caused by an infection or exercise, the main symptom is a cough
Seasonal asthma– usually caused by allergens during certain times of the year (for example pollen in spring and summer)
Adult onset asthma– often caused by infections or exercise, might flare up when you get excited or are laughing, may be affected by hormonal changes.” [6]
If you find these remedies helpful, we can personalize your healing process. For more information, visit TeddyCanHeal.Com . We have also opened an anonymous Survey that will help us to improve our healing solutions, as well as help you more efficiently. We welcome you to participate if you would like a more specialized Path to Healing.
Post navigation
Previous PostHealing Options for HeartburnNext PostHealing Options for IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome)
An integrative resource for the baby boomer community. Our #blog features health and medical news, travel tips, shopping, and much more!
Free Trial: Start Healing
Join and Receive Support from Patients Like You
User:
Pass:
Forgot?
Register
Not Feeling Well?
We Heal Chronic Diseases! Free Trials..
Free College Homework Help for Your Kids or Grandkids
Your Drs. Skipping Important Tests, You don’t Have to!
Our Footprints & Long Shadows
April 2017 (1)
October 2016 (1)
September 2016 (7)
August 2016 (12)
July 2016 (6)
June 2016 (8)
May 2016 (16)
April 2016 (47)
March 2016 (24)
February 2016 (10)
January 2016 (5)
Healing Seekers
Newest | Active | Popular
teddycan
active 1 year, 10 months ago
teddycanblog
active 1 year, 11 months ago
Claudia Rallis
active 2 years ago
Scoliosis Patient
active 2 years, 2 months ago
Nick Gut Inflammation Help
active 2 years, 2 months ago
Proudly powered by WordPress
Skip to toolbar
About WordPress
WordPress.org
Documentation
Support Forums
Feedback
Log in
Register
Search