What are the best vitamins for skin?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
List of the best vitamins for skin
Last reviewed	 Thu 11 April 2019	 Last reviewed	Thu 11 Apr 2019
By Zawn Villines
Reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Table of contents
Vitamin A
B-complex vitamins
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Summary
Research suggests that some vitamins might play a key role in skin health. In many cases, these vitamins are most effective when a person applies them directly to the skin. Following a healthful, balanced diet that is free of vitamin and nutrient deficiencies may improve skin health by boosting overall health.
Skin care and supplement manufacturers are quick to claim that the right vitamin can revolutionize skin health, fight aging, and cure acne.
Vitamins are not revolutionary, however. They are naturally occurring substances that the human body needs to function normally.
So, the main way in which vitamins affect skin health is by ensuring that the body remains healthy overall.
Vitamin A
Sweet potato and dark leafy greens contain vitamin A.
Many multivitamins contain 100 percent or more of the recommended daily intake of vitamin A. Other good sources of vitamin A include carrots, dark leafy green vegetables, sweet potatoes, and eggs.
Retinoids, including retinol, tretinoin, isotretinoin, and similar chemicals, are manufactured forms of vitamin A.
These products come in creams and serums to apply directly to the skin. Many studies support the benefits of retinoids for skin health.
Retinoids increase the rate of cell turnover. This can improve the texture and tone of skin, exfoliate dull and lifeless skin, fight acne, and slow the signs of aging.
A 2015 study found that retinol and retinoic acid increased skin thickness over 4 weeks. Retinoids also increased collagen gene expression. After 12 weeks, study participants had visible reductions in wrinkles.
Retinoids can increase the skin's sensitivity to the sun. For this reason, it is vital to wear sunscreen while using retinoids, and for several weeks after. Retinoids can also be drying, so people should use a quality moisturizer and start slowly.
Try applying retinoids once or twice per week before going to bed, then gradually increasing the frequency of use to once daily.
B-complex vitamins
Several B-complex vitamins may improve skin health. The water-soluble vitamins are readily available as supplements, including as supplements that include all 12 B-complex vitamins.
Research into the role of vitamin B-complex supplements is promising, though inconclusive. A 2018 study found that vitamin B could help the body produce healthy new skin cells.
Not all research has found such benefits, though many studies suggest that B-complex vitamins are most effective when people apply them directly to the skin.
Vitamin B-3, or niacinamide, may help some signs of skin aging. Some studies suggest that it may help reduce the appearance of age spots and other forms of skin discoloration. Some women report improvements in their skin and hair when taking prenatal vitamins that contain folic acid.
Folic acid may also improve signs of skin aging, according to one 2011 study. Researchers found that a cream containing folic acid and creatine supported collagen gene expression and collagen fiber density. Collagen tends to decline with age, which cause wrinkles and saggy skin.
Vitamin B-5, or pantothenic acid, may help with both acne and skin aging. A randomized controlled trial from 2014 found that people who took a B-5 dietary supplement for 12 weeks saw significant reductions in acne and skin inflammation.
One 2010 study examined the effects of a skin cream containing vitamins E, B-5, and B-3. The cream improved skin tone and texture within 6 weeks. It also helped with age spots and hyperpigmentation.
Some dietary sources of B-complex vitamins include meat, eggs, seafood, nuts, and seeds.
Benefits and uses of B-complex vitamins
Vitamin B is beneficial for the skin. Learn more about it here.
Read now
Vitamin C
A person can take multivitamins to ensure that their intake of vitamin C is adequate.
Vitamin C is an antioxidant. This means that it may reverse free radical-induced oxidative damage.
Most research suggests that oxidative damage plays an important role in aging, including skin aging.
In theory, this could mean that vitamin C supplements might improve skin health and slow the skin aging process. Research to support this claim varies, however.
Most studies have found few benefits associated with vitamin C, though a 2010 study does suggest that vitamin C may slow sun-related skin aging.
There is no harm in trying to get more vitamin C. Most multivitamins contain vitamin C, and it is also readily available in many citrus fruits as well as most vegetables, including broccoli, cauliflower, and squash.
Applying topical vitamin C directly to the skin may improve elasticity, helping the skin look younger and brighter. Vitamin C serums may also stimulate collagen production, fighting the damaging effects of the sun.
Vitamin C might also be an effective skin moisturizer. A 2012 study found that formulas containing vitamin C improved both skin moisture and smoothness for at least 3 hours following application.
Vitamin D
Vitamin D supports skin cell metabolism, helping the skin grow and repair itself. So, inadequate levels of vitamin D may trigger skin problems. Beneficial sources of vitamin D include fortified products such as milk and cereal, as well as salmon, swordfish, and tuna.
Vitamin D may also help with chronic inflammation. Inflammation can lead to skin irritation, some types of acne, and eczema. In fact, one 2010 study found that using a cream containing vitamins D and E could help with atopic dermatitis.
Vitamin E
Vitamin E is a common ingredient in skin care products.
Like vitamin C, vitamin E is an antioxidant that may slow aging that free radicals cause.
Preliminary research suggests that vitamin E supplements may slow skin aging, but the research is not conclusive. Seeds, nuts, spinach, mangoes, and corn are rich in vitamin E.
Many skin care products contain vitamin E. It is a popular scar remedy. However, research into vitamin E's ability to reduce the appearance of scars has reached contradictory conclusions.
A 2015 review found that vitamin E did prevent scarring in some studies, but in other studies, vitamin E either did not work or made scars worse.
Also, a 2010 study found that applying topical vitamin D and vitamin E cream could help with atopic dermatitis.
Some research suggests that vitamin E may help with wound healing, especially in combination with vitamin C and zinc. It may also help treat acne and pressure sores.
Summary
Many vitamins can improve skin health, especially in people with vitamin deficiencies. Malnourishment can cause a range of skin problems, so eating a varied and nutrient-dense diet remains one of the best things a person can do for skin health.
People should take care not to over-supplement with vitamins, as having an excess of certain vitamins can cause health issues.
People with concerns about specific skin conditions should choose vitamins based on their needs. Not all vitamins are appropriate for all skin conditions, and the wrong combination may even make some issues worse. For example, using too many products containing vitamin A can dry and irritate the skin.
For help choosing the right skin care products and following a skin-healthy diet, see a dermatologist.
Some of the products listed in this article are available for purchase online.
Shop for retinoid creams.
Shop for B-complex vitamins.
Shop for multivitamins.
Shop for vitamin C serums.
Shop for vitamin E oil.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Top 6 remedies for dry skin on the face The skin on the face is sensitive, so it can often become dry. In this article, we look at the causes of dry skin on the face and discuss gentle treatments and home remedies to relieve and prevent skin dryness. Read now
Which vitamins and minerals are good for acne? There are many over-the-counter products and prescription medications for treating acne. However, some vitamins and minerals may also help prevent and treat acne. Learn which ones here. Read now
Benefits and uses of B-complex vitamins Vitamin B complex refers to the eight B vitamins. In this article, we take a closer look at each of these vitamins, the benefits of B-complex supplements, who should use them, and side effects. Read now
Ten benefits of vitamin E oil Vitamin E oil is thought to have benefits for a wide range of skin and nail conditions, including treating dry skin, preventing skin cancer, treating psoriasis and eczema, and healing wounds. Find out how vitamin E oil may help with these conditions, some of the risks involved, and how to use it safely. Read now
What are some skin-friendly foods? Many foods can benefit the skin, including salmon, avocados, green tea, and several kinds of seeds and nuts. Adding skin-friendly foods to the diet can often improve overall health as well. In this article, we provide the research behind the best foods for healthful skin. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine Nutrition / Diet
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Thu 11 April 2019.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Biotin. (2017). https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Biotin-Consumer/
Capitani, R. D., et al. (2012). Stability and clinical efficacy of moisturizing cosmetic formulations containing vitamins C and E. https://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/doaj/21822360/2018/00000009/00000002/art00010
Fischer, F., et al. (2011). Folic acid and creatine improve the firmness of human skin in vivo [Abstract]. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21332911
Gašperlin M,, & Gosenca, M. (2011). Main approaches for delivering antioxidant vitamins through the skin to prevent skin ageing [Abstract]. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1517/17425247.2011.581657
Javanbakht, M. H., et al. (2010). Randomized controlled trial using vitamin E and D supplementation in atopic dermatitis [Abstract]. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.3109/09546630903578566
Jerajani, H. R., et al. (2010). The effects of a daily facial lotion containing vitamins B3 and E and provitamin B5 on the facial skin of Indian women: A randomized, double-blind trial [Abstract]. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20061726
Keen, M. A., & Hassan, I. (2016). Vitamin E in dermatology. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4976416/
Kong, R., et al. (2015). A comparative study of the effects of retinol and retinoic acid on histological, molecular, and clinical properties of human skin. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/jocd.12193
Navarrete-Sol's, J., et al. (2011). A double-blind, randomized clinical trial of niacinamide 4% versus hyrdoquinone 4% in the treatment of melasma. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3142702/
Pullar, J. M., et al. (2017). The roles of vitamin C in skin health [Abstract]. https://www.mdpi.com/2072-6643/9/8/866
Rembe, J. D., et al. (2018). Effects of vitamin B complex and vitamin C on human skin cells: Is the perceived effect measurable? [Abstract]. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29672394
Shaik-Dasthagirisaheb, Y. B., et al. (2013). Role of vitamins D, E and C in immunity and inflammation. https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Franco_Pandolfi2/publication/247155010_Role_of_vitamins_D_E_and_C_in_immunity_and_inflammation/links/5ade3ad5458515c60f6169b4/Role-of-vitamins-D-E-and-C-in-immunity-and-inflammation.pdf
Sidgwick, G. P., et al. (2015). A comprehensive evidence-based review on the role of topicals and dressings in the management of skin scarring. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00403-015-1572-0#Sec3
Vitamin A. (2018). https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminA-HealthProfessional/
Vitamin D. (2018). https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminD-HealthProfessional/
Vitamin E. (2018). https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminE-HealthProfessional/
Vitamins and minerals. (2018). https://nccih.nih.gov/health/vitamins
Yang, M., et al. (2014). A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of a novel pantothenic acid-based dietary supplement in subjects with mild to moderate facial acne. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4065280/
Zussman, J., et al. (2010). Vitamins and photoaging: Do scientific data support their use? [Abstract]. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20189681
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Villines, Zawn. "List of the best vitamins for skin." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 11 Apr. 2019. Web.
26 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324943.php>
APA
Villines, Z. (2019, April 11). "List of the best vitamins for skin." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324943.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Innovative patch may reduce muscle damage after a heart attack
An interdisciplinary team of researchers has designed a patch that can limit damage after a heart attack. The patch was successfully tested in rats.
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
This common food additive may fuel weight gain, diabetes
A new research study links the common anti-mold food additive propionate to blood sugar metabolism and insulin resistance in human volunteers and mice.
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
Popular in: Dermatology
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What causes tongue bumps?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
What causes an underarm rash?
What can cause sores or scabs on the scalp?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324943.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);