Treatment for Migraine Headaches – Downunder Products Online
Search
Log in
or
Create account
Cart 0
Menu
Cart 0
Home
About us
Shop
Blog
FAQ
Contact
Log in
Create account
Search
Home
About us
Shop
Blog
FAQ
Contact
Treatment for Migraine Headaches
Learning about Treatment for Migraine Headaches
Migraines can be devastating – they can leave you in pain for hours at a time, or even for days on end without treatment. They can occur with little warning, as well. Obviously, migraine treatments should be a high priority if you suffer from these headaches, but what should you do if you want to do it without pharmaceuticals? What about how to treat migraines without medications? Actually, there are many ways that can help with how to treat migraines naturally.
Natural Migraine Treatments
You’ll find a wide range of options when it comes to treatment for migraines that don’t involve pharmaceutical pain relievers or other medications. We’ll discuss the most effective of these home remedies for migraine headaches in adults below.
Magnesium: Magnesium has been used in natural health treatments for centuries. There seems to be good reason for this. While taking magnesium during a migraine will not provide pain relief, taking it regularly can help you avoid these headaches. In many people prone to migraines, magnesium levels in the body are low.
This deficiency is thought to be one reason some people are more susceptible to migraines than others. While it is not yet clear how magnesium helps prevent migraines, some studies indicate that it might prevent cortical spreading depression, improve platelet function, and more. While taking a magnesium supplement is a good way to increase the level in your body, dietary magnesium (found in the foods you eat) is better, as it is more easily absorbed by your body.
B Vitamins: B-complex vitamins (B 12, B 2, B 3, etc.) play a crucial role in nervous system health, as well as in the creation of important brain chemicals like serotonin. Most people do not get anywhere near enough B vitamins, and this can actually make you more susceptible to migraine headaches.
Feverfew: An herb, rather than a mineral, feverfew has long been used in traditional medicine to reduce fevers (thus the name). However, it is also being used today as a prophylactic treatment. It can help to combat migraines, as well as other health conditions, including arthritis. Note that this is a preventative, not a pain reliever, and will not help if taken during a migraine. However, taking it after a migraine, and before the onset of further headaches, can help to reduce the frequency with which they occur.
Riboflavin: Riboflavin, or vitamin B2, can be used to help reduce the frequency of migraines, as well as the duration of those you experience. Again, this does not alleviate the pain of a migraine in progress, but can shorten how long it lasts, and reduce the number you have overall. Note that supplementing with riboflavin generally requires taking up to 400 mg per day of just this vitamin (not the rest of the B-complex suite of vitamins, as talked about previously).
Trigger Management: If you want to learn how to cure migraines fast, you’ll need to identify your migraine triggers, and then manage or avoid them. If you’re triggered by perfume and chemical-y smells, you can generally avoid these, at least in areas where you control the environment. Avoiding food-based triggers can be more difficult, particularly with MSG, which can be listed under many different names on ingredient labels, and found in restaurant food, too, where you don’t have access to nutrition information.
Acupuncture: While there’s little scientific evidence to back up acupuncture as a treatment for migraines, many people have used it with success. With that being said, recent medical studies have shown that this type of treatment can deliver benefits similar to pharmaceutical treatments.
Massage: If your migraines are related to tension and stress, consider getting a massage periodically. It can release tension in your neck and shoulders that would otherwise build up and trigger a headache.
These are just a few of the options you have for treating migraines without the use of medications, or suffering their side effects. With that being said, some people’s condition does require medical assistance, so speaking with your doctor about both alternative and conventional migraine treatments can help you find the right solution for your particular needs.
Also see..
The Link between Magnesium, Headaches and migraine
Causes of Migraine?
Source:
https://www.migrainetrust.org/living-with-migraine/treatments/supplements-and-herbs/
https://draxe.com/natural-headache-remedies-relief/
http://www.prevention.com/mind-body/natural-remedies/migraine-causes-and-cures
Latest News
Can Magnesium reduce the risk for Diabetes?
Magnesium and Diabetes: What Are the Connections? Long known as a mineral essential to heart and bone health, experts today are becoming more and more aware of the importance of...
Quick Links
Search
About us
Contact us
Follow Us
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
Google
Instagram
Contact Us
sales@downunderproducts.com.au
PH: 0421941956
Newsletter Sign Up
Sign up for the latest news, offers and styles
Subscribe
Copyright © 2019, Downunder Products Online | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy
american express
master
paypal
visa