How to Treat Migraines and Get Pain Relief | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
Healthy Skin
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Everyday Health Pain Management Migraine
How to Treat Migraines and Get Pain Relief
Acute Treatment
Preventive Treatment
Home Remedies
Alternative Therapies
By Brian P. Dunleavy
Medically Reviewed by Robert Jasmer, MD
Last Updated: 10/19/2018
Several medications can help lessen the frequency, severity, and duration of migraine attacks.
iStock
There's no cure for migraine headaches, regardless of the type of migraine you have. But a range of treatments are available that can help you manage your migraine symptoms and, in some cases, make them less frequent and severe.
Medications for the Acute Treatment of Migraines
Your doctor may prescribe a medication you can take during a migraine attack to help lessen the severity and duration of symptoms, including pain, nausea, and vomiting. These are called “acute” medications.
Commonly used medications include:
Over-the-Counter (OTC) Pain Relievers
This category includes nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as Advil or Motrin (ibuprofen), Aleve (naproxen), and aspirin, as well as Tylenol (acetaminophen).
A combination drug containing aspirin, acetaminophen, and caffeine (Excedrin Migraine) has been shown to be effective at reducing the pain associated with mild to moderate migraines. But it’s not as effective in severe cases. (1)
If your doctor recommends NSAIDs or products containing aspirin, you should be aware that these drugs have been associated with side effects such as ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding. Taking these daily can lead to overuse-headaches. (2)
In general, you should take pain-relieving drugs only when you first experience signs or symptoms of a migraine.
Triptans
These drugs are designed to block the pain pathways in the brain by constricting specific blood vessels. (1)
Examples of triptans include:
Axert (almotriptan)
Relpax (eletriptan)
Frova (frovatriptan)
Amerge (naratriptan)
Maxalt (rizatriptan)
Imitrex (sumatriptan)
Treximet (sumatriptan and naproxen)
Zomig (zolmitriptan)
Common side effects of triptans include:
Nausea
Dizziness
Drowsiness
Muscle weakness
Triptans aren't recommended if you're at high risk for a stroke or heart attack. (1)
Ergots
These drugs are sometimes used to treat migraine pain that persists for two or more days.
Migergot or Cafergot (ergotamine and caffeine) and DHE 45 or Migranal (dihydroergotamine) are ergot-based drugs used to treat migraines. (3)
Opioids
These medications, which include codeine, oxycodone, and hydromorphone, are occasionally used to treat migraine pain if NSAIDs, triptans, or ergots are ineffective.
There is a risk of addiction associated with these drugs and there is concern that they’re overprescribed for migraine use. (4)
Glucocorticoids
These drugs, which include prednisone and dexamethasone, may be used in conjunction with other medications to improve pain relief. But they shouldn't be used frequently, because of troubling side effects such as insomnia, weight gain, and adverse metabolic effects. (3)
Nausea Medications
In addition to pain, your migraine attacks may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting. If so, your doctor may prescribe antinausea drugs (also known as antiemetics). (3) These include:
Chlorpromazine
Reglan (metoclopramide)
Compro (prochlorperazine)
continue reading below
Triptans are drugs designed to block the pain pathways in the brain by constricting specific blood vessels.
Medications for Migraine Prevention
There are several medications that can reduce the severity or frequency of migraine attacks. You may be a candidate for so-called preventive therapy if:
You have four or more migraine attacks per month.
Your migraine attacks last longer than 12 hours.
Pain-relieving medications are ineffective.
You regularly experience prolonged auras or numbness and weakness.
Your migraines are disabling or adversely affect other medical conditions you have. (1)
In general, your doctor may recommend that you take preventive medications daily or only when a predictable migraine trigger (such as menstruation) is approaching.
Many of the drugs that have been used in preventive therapy have not been specifically studied in clinical trials to target migraine. But that has recently been changing.
CGRP Blockers
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a molecule synthesized in nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. CGRP is directly involved in migraine pain. Researchers have been working to develop ways to keep the protein from being activated at the onset of a migraine. (5)
In May 2018, the FDA approved Aimovig (erenumab), which works as an antibody against the receptor to which CGRP binds. (6) Treatment involves monthly self-injections. It has been shown to reduce the number of days with migraines.
In September 2018, the FDA approved two similar medications, Emgality (galcanezumab-gnlm), which is also injected monthly, and Ajovy (fremanezumab-vfrm), which can be injected either quarterly or monthly.
Several more anti-CGRP treatments are in clinical trials. (7)
Other medications that have been used to help prevent migraines include:
Beta Blockers
These drugs are typically used to treat high blood pressure and coronary artery disease. (8)
Examples of beta blockers used to treat migraines include:
Inderal LA or Innopran XL (propranolol)
Lopressor (metoprolol tartrate)
Betimol (timolol)
You may not notice any improvement in symptoms for several weeks after starting these medications.
Calcium Channel Blockers
These drugs, which are more often used to treat high blood pressure, may be helpful in preventing migraines. (8)
One common example is Calan or Verelan (verapamil).
continue reading below
Certain antidepressants may help prevent some types of headaches, including migraines.
Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors
These drugs are more commonly used to treat high blood pressure and congestive heart failure.
But some drugs in this category, such as Zestril (lisinopril), may help prevent migraines or reduce their effects. (9)
Antidepressants
Certain antidepressants may help prevent some types of headaches, including migraines. You don't need to have depression to benefit from these drugs.
Tricyclic antidepressants work by changing the levels of serotonin and other chemicals in your brain.
To date, amitriptyline is the only tricyclic antidepressant proven to prevent migraines. (1,10)
Tricyclic antidepressants can cause dry mouth, constipation, weight gain, and other side effects.
Although selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) — another class of antidepressants — are generally ineffective for migraine prevention, studies indicate that one such drug, Effexor XR (venlafaxine), may help. (1)
Antiseizure Drugs
Some drugs in this group, such as Depacon or Depakote (valproate sodium) and Topamax (topiramate), have been shown to reduce the frequency of migraines.
These drugs have significant side effects — including nausea, tremor, weight gain or loss, hair loss, dizziness, diarrhea, and concentration problems. They should not be used if you're pregnant or plan to become pregnant. (10)
Botox
Known mainly for its cosmetic uses, Botox (onabotulinumtoxinA) has also been used to treat adults with chronic migraines, though its efficacy for episodic migraine has not been proved.
When Botox is used to treat migraines, the drug is injected into the muscles of your forehead and neck, typically at regular intervals (usually every 12 weeks). (11)
If you experience success in controlling your migraines while taking a preventive medicine, your doctor may recommend tapering off the medication to see if your migraines return without it.
Quiz
How Much Do You Know About Migraines?
The more you know about what’s behind your migraines, the better you’ll be able to manage them.
Migraine Home Remedies
There are several things you can do on your own that may help relieve your migraine symptoms, including:
Muscle relaxation exercises (such as meditation and yoga)
Reducing stress
Getting enough sleep
Keeping a headache diary
Getting an adequate amount of sleep each night is important, but don't oversleep. Doctors also recommend that you go to bed and wake up on a regular schedule.
If you feel a migraine attack coming on, try to rest in a dark, quiet room.
Icing the back of your neck and applying gentle pressure to the painful areas on your scalp may also help. (12)
Keeping a headache diary can help you and your doctor learn more about what triggers your migraines, as well as what treatments are most effective.
continue reading below
Migraine attacks may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting, so your doctor may prescribe antinausea drugs.
Alternative Therapies for Migraines
Nontraditional or alternative therapies may help you manage your chronic migraine pain. These therapies include:
Acupuncture
Biofeedback (a technique that aims to control certain bodily functions)
Massage therapy
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
Vitamins (such as B12) and herbs
Clinical studies evaluating the effectiveness of these approaches have yielded mixed results. (10)
Ask your doctor if any of these treatments may be right for you before you try them.
Additional reporting by Deborah Shapiro.
Sign up for our Healthy Living Newsletter!
Thanks for signing up for our newsletter! You should see it in your inbox very soon.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Subscribe
We respect your privacy.
Resources We
The American Migraine Foundation Mayo Clinic The Migraine Trust
Editorial Sources and Fact-Checking
Migraine: Diagnosis and Treatment. Mayo Clinic. May 31, 2018.
Commonly Used Acute Migraine Treatments. American Migraine Foundation (AMF). September 21, 2016.
Acute Treatment of Migraine in Adults. UpToDate. May 14, 2018.
Opioids and Migraine. American Headache Society.
Bernstein C. CGRP: A New Era for Migraine Treatment. Harvard Health Blog. March 6, 2018.
FDA Approves Novel Preventive Treatment for Migraine. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. May 17, 2018.
What to Know About the New Anti-CGRP Migraine Treatment Options. AMF. May 25, 2018.
Preventive Treatments. AMF. November 28, 2016.
Prescription Drug Treatment for Migraine Prevention in Adults. American Academy of Neurology. 2013.
Bajwa ZH, Smith JH. Preventive Treatment of Migraine in Adults. UpToDate. March 2, 2018.
Botox for Migraine. AMF. June 14, 2017.
Migraines: Simple Steps to Head Off the Pain. Mayo Clinic. July 8, 2015.
The Latest in Migraine
Migraine
Nerve Stimulation Devices for Migraine Treatment
Migraine
How to Treat Migraines and Get Pain Relief
Migraines can be treated or prevented using prescription or nonprescription drugs, as well as alternative therapies like relaxation exercises.
Migraine
Better Migraine Diagnosis and Treatment Needed, Particularly in Women
A report from the Society for Women’s Health Research calls for expanded research on migraine in women and the issues that affect predominantly women....
Migraine
Migraine Symptoms and Diagnosis
Some signs of a migraine may be present a day or two before the headache begins.
Migraine
Resources for People Living With Migraines
Get up-to-date information on research, treatment, advocacy, and support.
Migraine
6 Apps for People Who Suffer From Migraines
Help put a stop to constant pain with these noteworthy apps.
Migraine
Aimovig, Designed for Migraine Prevention, Approved by FDA
A first-in-class CGRP antagonist targets the pain pathway involved in migraine headache.
Migraine
10 Ways to Stop a Migraine Before It Starts
Keeping a diary of your triggers is one way to minimize your risk of a migraine. Find out what else you can do.
Migraine
Botox May Offer New Hope for Young Migraine Sufferers
Migraine
Skip Opioid Treatment for Migraine in the ER
Non-narcotic drug far more effective in new study.
Migraine
7 Complementary Therapies for Migraines
Though not intended to replace your medication, certain add-on therapies may help soothe and perhaps prevent migraine pain.
Migraine
6 Sleep Tips for People With Migraines
Everyday habits could be triggering your migraines and sabotaging your snooze time. Here’s how to get a better night's sleep.
Migraine
Study Ties Some Migraines to Artery Tears in Neck, Raising Stroke Risk
Problem also more likely in men and patients under 39, though chances are still low.
Migraine
Vitamin Deficiencies Common in Young Migraine Sufferers
But study couldn't determine if supplements made a difference.
Migraine
Experimental Drug Acts Fast Against Chronic Migraine
Begins working within 3 to 7 days.
Migraine
Giving the 'Green Light' to Migraine Relief
Experimental light therapy finds it can ease sensitivity, pain for some patients.
Migraine
Types of Migraines
There are a number of terms that are often applied to certain migraines or other kinds of headaches.
Migraine
Biofeedback: Hope or Hype for Migraine Treatment?
Research finds it can significantly reduce the duration and frequency of migraine headaches. But not everyone is convinced.
Migraine
Do You Know the Basics About Migraines?
Test your knowledge of debilitating migraines and their symptoms with this quiz.
Migraine
What's the Difference Between a Migraine and a Tension Headache?
Error
Please try again later.
Save
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.