9 Best Essential Oils For Arthritis – Dr. Seeds
Skip to content
Home
Shop Natural Health
Shop Performance
Blog
About
Contact
FAQ
Account
Search
Cart
Your cart is empty
Now reading: 9 Best Essential Oils For Arthritis
Share
PrevNext
October 16, 2018
9 Best Essential Oils For Arthritis
Arthritis affects millions of people every year, and the pain and discomfort associated with it impacts everything from everyday activities to what types of tasks they can take on at work. Having every possible treatment available can help make it easier to cope with arthritis. With that in mind, here’s a list of the best essential oils for arthritis to help get rid of that disturbing joint pain.
In this article:
Basil
Turmeric
Ginger
Evening Primrose
Lavender
Frankincense
Eucalyptus
Myrrh
Orange
9 Essential Oils for Arthritis to Relieve Joint Pain
1. Basil
Basil provides a wide range of therapeutic compounds, such as 1.8-cineole and linalool, that have anti-inflammatory benefits. One study showed that researchers administered 150-300-mg/kg of basil oil daily on rats with arthritis, and it helped reduce their joint inflammation. These experimental rats also showed reduced symptoms of edema, a condition that’s linked to swelling.
2. Turmeric
Turmeric is known for its many health benefits, including anti-inflammatory properties. Clinical studies revealed that turmeric essential oil is effective in relieving symptoms of arthritis. It contains a strong compound called curcumin that blocks the molecule responsible for triggering inflammation.
3. Ginger
Ginger oil is also another effective remedy for alleviating joint pain and inflammation. It has chemicals that transform into a group of anti-inflammatory agents to fight off symptoms of arthritis. Research found that rats with joint inflammation reduced rates of swelling when administered this arthritis essential oil.
4. Evening Primrose
This essential oil for arthritis is packed with a type of omega-6 fatty acid called gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), an anti-inflammatory agent. GLA can aid in eliminating symptoms of arthritis, such as stiffness, tenderness, and joint pain. The Arthritis Foundation even suggests that people with rheumatoid arthritis should take primrose oil between 540 mg and 2.8 g (in divided doses) daily for 6 months.
5. Lavender
Lavender oil can be applied topically, added to a warm bath, and inhaled (aromatherapy). On top of its benefits in reducing symptoms of depression, pain, and anxiety, the oil can also help alleviate pain from arthritis. A study showed that a mixture of 5% lavender oil and some amount of almond oil aids in the participants’ pain relief caused by arthritis.
6. Frankincense
Frankincense oil is already popular in traditional medicine for relieving swelling and chronic pain. The plant’s extracts have acetyl-11-keto-beta-boswellic acid that provides anti-inflammatory effects. Some researchers found that osteoarthritis patients reported improvements in physical functioning and reduction in pain when using frankincense oil.
7. Eucalyptus
Eucalyptus is rich in compounds with pain-relieving and anti-inflammatory effects. When topically applied on the skin, it alleviates muscle pain, swelling, and soreness. A study revealed that inhalation of the oil can serve as a “nursing intervention for pain relief.”
8. Myrrh
Myrrh oil has anti-rheumatic properties that are great for lessening symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. It is often used with another essential oil, like frankincense, for best results. One study found that individual results of myrrh and frankincense oils showed significant improvements in the symptoms of arthritis.
9. Orange
Orange oil also contains anti-inflammatory properties. According to research, orange oil is the most effective essential oil among those studied for reducing inflammation. This essential oil is excellent when diluted with almond or avocado oil before applying to the affected area.
Watch this video about how to make essential oils for arthritis from Big Bear Homestead:
With these essential oils for arthritis, joint pain and inflammation won’t bother you anymore. But, it is still important to consult your doctor for medical guidance once symptoms persist and if you have allergies. Otherwise, maximize their use and free yourself from pain and discomfort caused by arthritis.
What other essential oils for arthritis can you add to the list above? Share them in the comments section!
Up Next: Rotator Cuff Tear Symptoms To Watch Out For
The post 9 Best Essential Oils For Arthritis appeared first on Dr. Seeds Blog.
Written by Jesse Young
Top 9 Most Common Musculoskeletal Injuries of Athletes
How To Treat Shin Splints
Follow Us!
Stay up to date on the latest from the Dr. Seeds team by following us on Facebook, Instagram, or Youtube.
Join our newsletter!
Subscribe to the Dr. Seeds Newsletter to receive updates, access to exclusive deals, and more!
Subscribe
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
© Dr. Seeds
American Express
Apple Pay
Diners Club
Discover
JCB
Mastercard
PayPal
Venmo
Visa