May 2018 – Beauty and Spa
Beauty and Spa
Beauty is power a smile is its sword
Menu
Home
CONTACT US
DISCLOSURE
Month: May 2018
27
May
2018
Avocado Oil for Skin
categories: beauty
Did you know?
Avocado is also called alligator pear, because of its rocky skin and pear-like shape.
Avocado oil comes from the fruit avocado, and is an edible oil. Other than its cooking purposes, you can use this oil for natural skin care. Avocado oil contains vitamin E, which helps to maintain a smooth and clear complexion.
Many people use avocado fruit for many face pack and skin treatments. However, cutting and scooping the fruit to use it for skin treatments can get tedious. Instead, you can use oil of avocado for skin treatments.
Avocado Oil Benefits
~ Avocado oil gives a soothing and softening effect to the skin.
~ Avocado oil is also used as a massage oil.
~ It is also used to treat cramps, and used in body lotions and hair care products.
~ Avocado oil contains vitamins A, D, and E and provides a soothing effect to skin, but it is especially good for dry skin and aging skin.
~ This oil is high in sterolin, and studies show that sterolin reduces the occurrence of age spots and help to softens the skin.
~ Oil from avocado is very helpful for dry and itchy skin.
~ It also increases the production of collagen, and prevents aging of the skin.
~ It is very good for healing and soothing diaper rash.
~ You can use this oil for scaly skin and scalp treatment.
~ This oil is good for natural skin care, as it greatly penetrates the skin, and helps to keep the skin well-moisturized.
~ It is also very helpful in skin conditions like eczema, psoriasis, and solar keratosis.
~ This oil helps to heal skin burns and wounds faster.
~ It is widely known that fish oil has omega-3 essential fatty acids, but did you know that omega-3 is also found in avocado oil? So, one can benefit from its omega-3 content by using the oil for cooking purposes, or by topical application.
~ Regular application of this oil can stimulate hair growth.
As this oil is rich in antioxidants, it can help to fight sun damage caused to the skin.
~ It is a great oil that can be added to lotions and body butters, to increase their benefits.
Uses and Beneficial Blends
Before you start using avocado oil, make sure you do an allergy test. Take 2-3 drops of avocado oil and rub it over your arm. Wait for one day to check for side effects. If you have any side effects, do not use this oil. However, if no side effects manifest, then go ahead and use it.
Facial Moisturizer
This is a good method which helps in facial skin care. There is hidden oil in the peel of the avocado fruit, the oil has a humectant which holds moisture. With gentle upward strokes, massage your face with the inside of the peel, and let it stay for 15 minutes. You can leave the oil overnight, and wash your face in the morning. Make sure you scoop out the fruit and use it for salad, so that the pulpy fruit part doesn’t go to waste.
Soothing Bath
In a pan, warm-up 2 cups of avocado oil, with 1 cup of almond oil. Remove from the stove and add 2 green tea bags, and keep them till the solution becomes cool. Remove the tea bags and add 2 drops of rose oil, 10 drops of lavender essential oil, 4 drops of ylang ylang, and 8 drops of chamomile oil. Store the solution in an amber bottle for 24 hours, so that the oils blend well. For a sensuous bath experience, add 2 ounces of this oil mix to your bath water.
After Bath Moisturizer
You can also use avocado oil as an after bath moisturizer. Mix 1 part of avocado oil with 1 part of almond oil and 1 part of jojoba oil. Add few drops of orange essential oil to the mix, to make the oil mix smell fruity and fresh. Pour the mix in a bottle and keep it in the bathroom. After you are done taking bath, pat your skin dry, and apply this oil mix all over the body to keep it soft and well-moisturized. This mix can help you get rid of eczema.
Scalp Skin Care
Those who have dry scalp can use avocado oil for head massage and hot oil treatment. Did you know that this oil can actually penetrate the hair shaft? So, in a bowl take 2 tablespoons of avocado oil and 2 tablespoons of castor oil. Warm this oil and use it to massage the scalp. Leave it overnight, and shampoo hair in the morning. Doing this oil treatment regularly will help you get rid of dandruff and make the hair softer too!
Dry Skin Care
If you have rough, dry, and dehydrated skin then mix avocado oil with olive oil. These carrier oils blend well and regular application will help rejuvenate the skin. Apply the mix at least twice a day. If you want, you can add few drops of an essential oil like lavender, orange, or jasmine to add fragrance to the mix.
salad dressing
Cooking with Avocado Oil
Avocado oil is similar to olive oil when it comes to nutritional value. However, it is a lighter oil and doesn’t taste bitter like olive oil. You can use it for salad dressings or as a condiment. Research shows that avocado oil or fresh avocado when added to a salad helps to absorb carotenoid antioxidants better.
Avocado offers many other health benefits when taken internally. It is good for your heart, helps to regulate blood sugar levels and the antioxidants aid in cancer prevention. Eating fresh avocados or adding the oil to salads will provide long-term benefits for your skin. So, you can topically apply the oil, or use it in your kitchen, and it will still do wonders for your skin.
Shopping Tips
Buy organic and unrefined avocado oil, this way you will be buying a nutrient-rich oil which offers better health benefits. You can buy a 16oz bottle of unrefined avocado oil around USD 30. For culinary purposes you can buy avocado oil which is blended with garlic or olive oil. If you want, you can also buy avocado oil blends.
Comments Off on Avocado Oil for Skin
24
May
2018
Tips For Fixing Split Nails and Other Painful Problems
categories: beauty
Walk down any major mall and you will most likely see one or more salon specializing in manicures and basic fingernail health products. There is a misconception that fingernail health is best left up to the mall “experts”, yet in reality most common fingernail problems such as split fingernails or cracked fingernails can be easily fixed at home if you know a few simple tips.
Poor fingernail health may be caused by a variety of factors including regular contact with potent household cleansers, excessive use of nail polish remover, sickness, or even genetic causes. The consequence is frail, delicate or brittle fingernails that can lead up to a host of fingernail problems.
Tip #1: “An Ounce of Prevention”
To fortify fingernails naturally, use rubber gloves for household jobs, and keep hands out of very hot water. Rub in cuticle ointment each day. Put on hand lotion after washing your hands and prior to bedtime. Try not to utilize your fingernails for digging out and prying, and keep them filed and snag free. Healthy fingernails are easy with a little “TLC” (tender loving care) and a measure of common sense.
Tip #2: “Beware the Tear”
If you are noticing fingernails splitting, tearing, or cracked fingernails, immediately fix them with a bead of instant-bonding nail glue. Hold the glue away from your eyes. Whenever any glue contacts your skin, get rid of it immediately with nail polish remover. After the glue dries just file the surface area smooth.
Tip #3: “Put the Peelers under Wraps”
For bad fingernail nails that tend to peel off or rip, try out tape wraps that come in fingernail kits. (This is not the same as “nail wrapping” as discussed in the next tip.) Adhere the tapes on the ends of your nails, trim the tapes to size, then wind the edges around the tips and beneath your fingernails. Fasten them with the finishing up liquid in the kit, and then polish your nails.
Tip #4: “Hangnail Surgery 101”
A hangnail is a rip in the cuticle or in the skin by the sides of a fingernail that is induced by dryness, picking, or biting. It is safest to get rid of the hangnail as soon as you detect it, before it gets sore or contaminated. Utilize clean, sharp cuticle scissors and snip it close to its base. Wash your hands, put on antibiotic cream to the surface area, protect it with a little bandage, the leave it alone! Do not chew or tug on a hangnail. If painfulness increases or pus takes form, see a physician. To prevent hangnails, put on rubber gloves when washing dishes, and utilise hand cream frequently. At bedtime, massage in cuticle oil or ointment.
Tip #5: “Bad Ideas”
Liquid hardeners, plastic tips, nail wrapping, and fake nails can stimulate serious allergic reactions and even harm to nails. As a matter of fact many dermatologists even urge against their use. If you choose to attempt such techniques to fortify fingernails, make certain to do a patch test according to the package directions. If inflammation, swelling or itchiness arise, do not use the product! Nail enamel might also stimulate an allergic reaction, but not always in the vicinity of the nail. Reddish, itch blots might come out on the sensitive skin areas, such as the eyelids or sides of the neck and face, touched on by the nails.
Comments Off on Tips For Fixing Split Nails and Other Painful Problems
23
May
2018
Natural Beauty Tip Using Vitamin E To Your Advantage
categories: beauty
Whilst skin care products generally won’t deliver nutrients deep into the actual living cells beneath the superficial layers of the skin, the vitamin E in many products is actually useful. Scientists have found that by applying antioxidants to the skin, free radical damage that would normally occur through exposure to UV light (say, from the sun), can be prevented or at least minimized. Vitamin E is a popular ingredient in many skin care creams.
The scientists found that the protective effects of vitamin E from that period of UV exposure were apparent 2 and 3 days later. The group of people who had vitamin E cream applied to their skin had less signs of inflammation than the group who were given the lotion without vitamin E. Inflammation is a sign of cell damage, and was measured in this study by the amount of blood flow to that area as compared to normal. This was a placebo controlled, double blind study, which means that some people received the lotion with vitamin E, some didn’t and neither group knew which it was getting. The conclusions these scientists made were that vitamin E was effective at preventing the visible signs of aging on skin.
Whilst vitamin E in creams and lotions will benefit the skin, there is strong doubt on whether it can help in some of the beauty products it is in. For example, when vitamin E is advertised as being of benefit to strengthen or thicken eyelashes, this is something of a misnomer, and is not supported by science. Paula Begoun, the ‘cosmetic cop’ writes that there isn’t a product out there that will strengthen and thicken eyelashes. The best you can do in this instance is to apply an eyelash primer and mascara to make eyelashes appear thicker. Vitamin E is an antioxidant, and the research verifies only benefits that relate to this antioxidant activity.
Another of the promises associated with vitamin E creams is that it helps to heal scars. This is not something that has been verified scientifically. Research quoted in Wikipedia found that when vitamin E was applied to patients who had undergone surgery, it did not reduce the size, shape, or color of scars. In fact, up to one third of patients experienced complications like allergies, dermatitis, and irritation that in fact can make a forming scar worse. Activated manuka honey is a much better option in reducing scarring, and healing skin.
Vitamin E remains an excellent antioxidant. It is helpful when taken as a supplement for a whole host of issues, including protecting the liver, and minimizing the damage smoking does. And it is great for the skin in terms of preventing sun damage from the oxidizing effect of UV light. It is a good ‘beauty vitamin’ when taken as a supplement. Erica Angyal describes how it protects cell membranes from damage and helps maintain their flexibility, which can diminish as we age. It also works to increase the level of vitamin A in our body. And it is very beneficial for skin problems like acne and psoriasis. She recommends taking 400 to 800 IU of vitamin E a day, to prevent premature aging and improve the lustre of skin.
Comments Off on Natural Beauty Tip Using Vitamin E To Your Advantage
22
May
2018
Smooth Skin Tips
categories: beauty
The largest organ of the human body, skin is not just a protective body covering that protects our internal organs, it also regulates body temperature. Also, the texture of the skin is important, when it comes to our appearance. Rough skin, uneven skin tone, pigmentation, and various skin conditions can adversely affect our physical appearance. Thus, we should make efforts to protect our skin from harsh weather, irritants, or anything that can harm the skin. The following sections list out a few beauty tips to improve the texture of the skin.
Tips for Getting Smooth Skin
Though manufacturers of cosmetic products such as moisturizing creams or lotions make several claims about their products, it is essential to opt for good quality products that don’t contain harmful chemicals that rob the skin off its natural oils. Here are a few tips that will help you get a healthy, glowing skin.
➠ First of all, keep your skin clean. Make sure that you remove makeup before bedtime.
➠ Add milk to a mashed banana. Apply this paste on your face for 20 minutes. Thereafter, wash it off with cold water.
➠ If your skin got tanned due to sun exposure, you can apply a face mask made from egg white and honey. If your skin is not too sensitive, you can apply a mixture made by mixing lemon juice with some sugar granules. This natural scrub will help remove the dead cells and lighten the skin.
➠ Cucumber juice is a natural cleanser. You could also mix cucumber juice with milk. This solution can be used as a cleanser.
➠ At times, the texture of the skin gets adversely affected due to pimples. If these pimples are caused by dandruff, you can rub your scalp with lemon oil that is mixed with hot oil (make sure that the oil is not too hot). Then, add lemon juice to lukewarm water, and use this water to condition your hair.
➠ This face pack is made by mixing sandalwood paste with rose water. Apply it on your face, and leave it overnight. Wash your face with cold water in the morning. Your facial skin will surely feel soft and smooth.
➠ Rubbing a slice of raw potato or potato juice will also help reduce blemishes.
➠ Make a paste of a small, juicy tomato. Add half teaspoon of lemon juice to this paste. Apply it on your face, and rinse it off with cold water after 15 minutes.
➠ Make a paste by adding milk to turmeric powder. Apply it on the face. Wash your face with cold water, once the paste dries.
➠ If you have large skin pores, rubbing ice cubes will prove beneficial. It will also increase blood circulation.
➠ Mix 2 teaspoons of oatmeal, ½ teaspoon of cinnamon powder, and 2 teaspoons of milk to make a paste. Apply it on your face, and wash it off with cold water after 20 minutes.
➠ Mix 1 egg white, 1 teaspoon of yogurt, and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice. Apply it on your face. Wash it off after 20 minutes with cold water.
➠ Grind a few pieces of orange peel, and add 2 teaspoons of rose water to the orange paste. Apply it on your face. Leave it on for 20 minutes. Thereafter, wash your face with cold water.
➠ In case of oily skin, you should take a mixture of oatmeal and egg and apply it over your face and neck.
➠ Mix 2 teaspoons of milk, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 teaspoon of gram flour. Apply this paste on your face. Wash it off with cold water after 20 minutes.
➠ To lighten your underarms, you can apply a mixture of lemon juice, cucumber, and a pinch of turmeric. Wash it off after 20 minutes.
➠ You can prepare a paste by mixing 3 tablespoons of fuller’s earth, 2 tablespoons of plain yogurt, and a pinch of turmeric. Apply it on your face and neck. Once it dries off completely, wash it off with cold water.
➠ You can make your own exfoliation scrub by mixing olive oil and sugar granules. Mix enough olive oil and sugar to get a thick paste. Rub it gently on your face in gentle circular motion. Wash it off with lukewarm water. This scrub can be used thrice a week.
➠ Mash a slice of papaya. Apply it on your face. Wash it off after 20 minutes. Papaya contains an enzyme that accelerates skin renewal and lightens skin.
Precautionary Measures to Keep the Skin Healthy
There are a few preventive measures that you should follow to keep your skin in a good condition. Before going outdoors, apply a sunscreen lotion. The harmful UV lays from the sun can damage your sensitive skin. Prolonged exposure can cause freckles, spots, pigmentation, and even skin cancer. So, apply a sunscreen with a high sun protection factor.
Also, those who smoke should try to quit smoking. Smoking makes you age faster.
Also, drink 8 to 12 glasses of water daily to keep your skin hydrated and fresh.
Cut down on the intake of caffeinated drinks and alcohol. Also, reduce your intake of spicy or fatty foods, as they make your skin more prone to acne.
Follow a healthy diet that includes fresh fruits and vegetables. Fresh fruits and vegetables contain many antioxidants and nutrients that help in keeping the skin healthy.
On a concluding note, you can improve the texture of your skin by using face masks that can be easily made at home, as most of the ingredients are already present in your kitchen. So, use any of these recipes for making face packs to get skin that is soft, smooth, and supple. Also, make the aforementioned lifestyle-related changes to stay healthy. Skin, hair, and nails are good indicators of health. So, if you are healthy, your skin will appear youthful. Do take care of your skin, and avoid the use of cosmetic products that contain harsh chemicals, and strip the body of its natural oils.
Comments Off on Smooth Skin Tips
16
May
2018
Tips to Solve Hair Loss Problems
categories: beauty
We normally lose hair everyday. We lose about 100-150 strands a day but if you are losing more hair than the normal daily hair loss, there is definitely a problem. Losing hair can be a very distressing problem and it is important to know how to solve hair loss problems.
Losing hair can be a symptom of other health issues so it is best to consult your doctor if you feel you have health concerns. In most cases, baldness is not a life threatening problem but it is more of a beauty or physical appearance concern. Premature baldness can lead to emotional stress and anxiety to most people. It is a great concern especially to those who are very conscious with their looks and self image.
Here are some tips to solve hair loss problems:
Avoid too much hair manipulation and harsh treatments. Frequent shampooing can irritate the scalp and can cause hair problems. For women, hair manipulations like the use of hair irons and treatments like hair coloring, bleaching, curling, straightening and perming can damage your hair and can lead to hair loss. You have to avoid harsh hair treatments and be gentle to your hair.
Avoid habits that can worsen your condition like habitual hair pulling and combing your hair with your fingers. Brushing wet hair can also worsen your hair problems because hair is at its weakest when it is wet. To keep your crowning glory, avoid practices and habits that are not good to your hair.
Proper diet and regular exercise are also essential for your hair health. Vitamins and nutrients deficiency can lead to thinning and falling hair. Have a well-balanced diet with protein and natural oils to stimulate hair growth. Regular exercise is also important if you want to solve hair loss. Stress is one of the factors that can influence hair loss. Physical activities, exercises and relaxation techniques can help release stress and improve your body’s blood circulation including your scalp.
Premature baldness can be a very devastating experience and anyone will try anything to solve this problem. It is not a good idea to use harsh products with unknown chemicals and treatments with side effects. Vitamin supplements are also important to solve hair loss problems.
Comments Off on Tips to Solve Hair Loss Problems
Recent Posts
Pomegranate Benefits for the Skin
Discover The Best Tips On How To Get Rid Of Lice Effectively
Baldness Prevention Tips That You Should Know
Tips To Help You Maintain Healthy And Vibrant Looking Long Hair
10 Tips For Beautiful Nails
How to Use Tea Tree Oil for Maximum Benefits
Almond Oil for Skin
3 Holistic Nutrition Tips for Beauty
Hints and Tips About Nail Health
The Best Selected Beauty Tips for Teenage Girls
Archives
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
Travel Home Improvement Automotive Finance Beauty Technology Business Education Fashion Computer Fitness Food Gardening Sport Health Hotel and Resort Fashion Law Photography Real Estate Art Health Family Health Home Improvement Gardening Electronic Automotive Games Shopping Technology Automotive Jewelry Relationship Employment Health Real Estate Food Health Pet Shopping Art Software Finance Health Automotive Home Improvement Travel Health Travel Home Improvement Music Beauty Relationship Music Music Beauty Fashion Hotel and Resort Home Improvement Health Travel Home Improvement Health Travel Health Travel Travel Health Auto Insurance Home Improvement Finance Home Improvement Home Improvement Home Improvement Finance Health Health Health Automotive Automotive Automotive Insurance Travel Law Entertainment Finance Technology Parenting Health Home Improvement Technology Education Finance Beauty Education Law Automotive Home Improvement Auto Technology Home Improvement Sport Art Entertainment Sport Fashion Games Travel Finance Food Music Fashion Games Games Technology Home Improvement Entertainment Finance Family Music Art Travel Health Technology
© Copyright Beauty and Spa 2019. Powered by WordPress. Designed by Bluchic