Evening Primrose Oil Benefits
Evening Primrose Oil Benefits
Evening primrose oil benefits are derived from the therapeutic value of GLA (gamma-linolenic acid). GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid and it has anti-inflammatory healing actions and helps to regulate metabolism.
It is native to North America where the plant is used as both a food and a medicine. Native Americans applied the whole evening primrose plant externally to control the swelling and inflammation of wounds.
Evening Primrose Oil Benefits
The GLA in primrose can considerably lower cholesterol. In one Scottish study the participants that used evening primrose lowered their cholesterol levels by over 30%.
Studies also show the blood pressure is lowered which reduces blood clotting that can lead to heart attacks and strokes.
One of the benefits of evening primrose oil is that it can lessen menstrual cramps and the other pre-menstrual symptoms such as mood swings, breast tenderness and fluid retention. Women with PMS show low levels of GLA in their system so supplements containing this are widely recommended.
Health benefits of evening primrose oil include relieving the joint pain, swelling and tenderness of rheumatoid arthritis. In one study, 30-40% of the patients experienced less joint pain and tender joints after taking evening primrose for 6 months.
Studies have shown significant improvement in cases of eczema when evening primrose oil was used to treat it. The oils in EFA reduce the inflammation in rosacea and lessen the pores from becoming clogged in acne.
Other evening primrose oil benefits include lupus, Raynaud’s disease, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer’s memory deficiencies, impotence and female infertility.
Evening Primrose Oil Side Effects
No significant side effects from evening primrose oil have been documented. Slight side effects could be abdominal discomfort, headache, nausea and skin rash.
Consult your physician before taking evening primrose oil or any other supplement.
more than evening primrose oil benefits on our Herbal Nutritional Supplement page
Nutritional Supplements Guide home page