Crochet and Lipstick: More EVOO (Extra Virgin Olive Oil) Benefits
Pages
Home
Disclaimer
Current Skin Care
17 September 2012
More EVOO (Extra Virgin Olive Oil) Benefits
Image taken from here
Good day fellas..!!
Are you having a good day today?
Well I'm not... But it's ok, I'm making this new blog post to calm myself and ease my mind.
If you've already my post on EVOO (Extra Virgin Olive Oil) before, you probably know that EVOO has a lot of benefits for your health and beauty. I only post what I personally do with EVOO on my previous post, but I'm gonna post more of EVOO benefits and use in this post. So be prepare to read a pretty long post people....
EVOO for Beauty:
Pure and natural beauty aids are an alternative if you are trying to avoid additives, preservatives and other elements that may be harmful to skin and bodies. Olive oil is a natural lipid; its chemical composition is very close to our body's natural oil, called sebum, which allows our skin to absorb olive oil easily. Olive oil can help lock moisture into our skin and keep it soft and smooth. Olive oil also contains antioxidants and stimulates skin's production of elastin and collagen, two important natural components of plump, smooth, young-looking skin.
Moisturizer
Extra virgin olive oil penetrates deep into the skin, providing needed moisture as well as a shield to protect, soften and smoothes skin, leaving it supple while locking in moisture. Olive oil's antioxidants--vitamins A and E--can help repair skin damage from sun exposure, cigarette smoke and pollutants and can stimulate the production of collagen and elastin. When use as a moisturizer, massage it into skin that's still slightly damp so that the remaining water on skin can help keep skin from feeling greasy or you can mix equal parts oil and water with a hand-held frother.
Night Cream
Make your own night cream to leave your skin glowing and lighten discolorations. Mix 1/2 cup of olive oil with 1/4 cup of vinegar and 1/4 cup of water. Splash water on your face, then smooth the mixture over your skin. Apply before bed, and leave on all night. The water will rehydrate your skin, while the olive oil softens and moisturizes; vinegar lightens discolorations, loosens skin tags and kills bacteria.
Tonic
Olive oil is considered by some to be an effective anti-aging tonic when taken internally. By swallowing olive oil, some claim, you can actually improve your skin and reduce the effects of aging. Olive oil's effectiveness may be based on its high percentage of polyphenols and vitamin E.
Diminish Acne Scar
Acne scarring is a common skin condition, and is caused by previous acne pustules, papules or cysts that have healed. Acne scarring can be brown, pink or red, and can take a long time to fade form the face. Luckily, by applying olive oil to the skin in a few different ways, acne scars can fade more quickly. You can treat acne scars at home by softening them to make them less noticeable and by reducing the discoloration that acne scars can produce.
Method One:
Things You'll Need
- EVOO
- Aloe Vera Gel
- Washcloth
- Mild soap
- Lemon
- Measuring cup
- Vitamin E oil
- Rosehip seed oil
Step 1
Wash your face with a soft washcloth. Use a mild soap and warm water to remove any oil or makeup on the surface of your skin. Rinse the soap off thoroughly and gently pat your skin dry.
Step 2
Apply a vitamin E cream to your acne scars, according to the instructions. You can also cut open a capsule a vitamin E oil and apply its contents to your acne scars once per day or use a liquid form of vitamin E, which you can find at your local drugstore. A topical application of vitamin E can help repair scar tissue more quickly. Avoid applying vitamin E to open lesions, as this can increase the risk of infection. You can also rub a few drops of rosehip seed oil into the scar twice per day.
Step 3
Dab a few drops of lemon juice on an acne scar with a cotton ball. Wash the lemon juice off after about 10 minutes. Lemon juice contains citric acid, which can lighten a dark acne scar. Dilute the juice from one lemon with a cup of water if you plan to apply lemon juice to large areas of your skin. You can also use washcloth by soaking a soft washcloth in this solution and wring out the excess. Hold the washcloth to your acne scars for a few minutes each day.
Step 4
Massage aloe vera gel on your acne scars. Many products that contain aloe vera gel are commercially available. You can also use pure aloe vera gel directly from the plant. Aloe vera gel can help fade scars more quickly and soothe irritated skin.
Step 5
Apply a liberal amount of olive oil to your acne. Olive oil will moisturize your acne scars and minimize their appearance. Olive oil has little risk of side effects, so you can use it frequently throughout the day.
Note:
- You can skip step 2 and 4 if you don't have vitamin e or aloe vera
- Lemon juice can be replace with diluted apple cider vinegar
Method Two:
Things You'll Need
- EVOO
- Bowl
- Towel
- Baking soda
- Tea tree oil
- Cotton swabs
Step 1
Soften dead scar tissue by applying olive oil to the skin. Massage 1 tbsp. of olive oil onto the skin, using deep pressure and circular finger movements. Since olive oil will not clog the pores, you can rub it into your skin without causing acne. After four to five minutes of massage, allow the oil to sit on the skin for an additional four or five minutes. Fill a bowl with very hot, steaming water. Lean 18 inches over the bowl. Do not lean any closer or the steam could scald the skin. Cover the head with a towel, which will cause the steam to envelop the face. Steam your face for at least five minutes, and no longer than 10 minutes. Wipe off the excess oil and sweat with the towel. Using olive oil on the face and steaming will cause the scar tissue to become loose, allowing it to be removed more easily.
Step 2
Exfoliate and remove the softened scar tissue by applying an olive oil scrub. Mix 1 tsp. of olive oil with 1 tsp. of baking soda. Once combined, spread the mixture onto your skin. Use the tips of your fingers to scrub the skin with the mixture using small, circular motions. Scrub for two to three minutes, focusing on the areas that contain the most acne scars. Wipe a warm, wet washcloth over the face to remove the baking soda and olive oil mixture. The scar tissue that was softened will become dislodged by the olive oil and baking soda scrub, effectively removing it.
Step 3
Keep your skin clear and free of infection by combining olive oil with tea tree oil. In a small bowl, mix five drops of olive oil with three drops of tea tree oil. Dip a cotton swab into the oil, and apply it to the areas of acne scarring, areas of inflammation and breakouts. Tea tree oil is an antimicrobial oil, and will protect the skin underneath the scar tissue, which will become visible after using the scrub. Tea tree oil will also prevent new acne from forming, reducing future acne scars from developing.
Preshampoo Treatment
Shampoos can be very harsh and damaging to the hair, stripping it of vital oils that conditioning treatments are unable to restore. Using EVOO before you wash your hair as a preshampoo treatment can help your hair retain moisture. As a result, your hair will be more lustrous, shiny, soft and manageable.
Facial Steam
For dry skin, create a moisturizing olive oil facial steam. Boil two quarts of water and pour it into a bowl. Add 1/4 c. light olive oil, 8 drops rose essential oil, 8 drops palmarosa essential oil and 6 drops lavender essential oil, according to Purchon. Put your face over the bowl, with a towel over your head to keep the steam in, for five to 10 minutes. When you are done, wash your face with cool water.
Essential Oil Base
Dilute skin-healing essential oils, such as lavender, in olive oil to apply them to your skin. Add one to four drops of essential oil to every tablespoon of olive oil, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Apply this mixture to your skin. Speak to a certified aromatherapist about the proper way to use essential oils.
Olive Oil and Acne
Washing your face with a little bit of olive oil may actually reduce or remove the causes of some types of acne. If you're overdrying your face with harsh chemical moisturizers and zit creams, you may be inadvertently causing more zits. According to skin-care expert Mario Badescu, overcleansing can backfire and cause your oil glands to go into overdrive, leading to dryness, irritation and even more acne.
Skin Cleanser
If you have dry or normal skin, cleansing with an olive oil mixture can make it soft and supple. Purchon recommends her olive and rosewater cleanser. Melt 1 oz. beeswax with 3.5 oz. olive oil in a double boiler. In another double boiler, heat 2 tbsp. rosewater and add 1 tsp. borax, allowing it to dissolve. Combine the rosewater blend with the oil and beeswax mixture, stirring continuously until the ingredients are combined. When cooled, this mixture will solidify, similar to a soap bar, and you can use it to wash your skin.
Author Janice Cox uses 1/4 cup distilled water, 1/8 tsp. borax powder, 1/2 cup olive oil and 2 tsp. grated beeswax. Her recipe in "Natural Beauty from the Garden" calls for melting the wax into the olive oil and dissolving the borax into the water. Pour the water/borax mixture into the olive oil/beeswax mixture and stir frequently until blended. When it cools, use it as a nourishing cream cleanser.
To create a basic olive oil face wash, Firenze suggests using equal amounts of olive oil and water to create a simple liquid cleanser. The water hydrates skin, she writes, while the olive oil seals in the moisture.
Facial Scrub:
For a cleansing scrub, mix 1/2 cup of olive oil with 1 tbsp. of sea salt. Use all over the body, including your face.
For a moisturizing scrub, mix 1/4 cup of granulated sugar with 1 tbsp. of either grated cucumber, aloe vera juice or mashed avocado. Drizzle in enough olive oil to make a smooth paste, then scrub gently into your face and rinse off.
Mask
Carol Firenze of thepassionateolive.com recommends a moisturizing, skin-firming facial mask made from honey, egg and extra virgin olive oil. Mix 1 tsp. of oil with 1 tsp. of honey and a single egg yolk. Stir until smooth, then apply gently to your face and neck. Let sit for 15 minutes. Rinse in lukewarm water, and gently pat your face dry. Some oil will remain to moisturize your skin.
Smoothen Stretch Marks
Stretch marks are reddish to white striations at the skin's surface that can mar healthy skin's appearance. They are caused by stretching of the skin due to weight gain or pregnancy, and can also be caused by some medications and medical conditions. According to MayoClinic.com, there is no scientific data that using olive oil to prevent or treat stretch marks as a home remedy is effective. Because olive oil contains high quantities of vitamins E, A and D, it helps soften the skin and reduce the appearance of existing stretch marks and can help prevent them from forming.
Things You'll Need
- EVOO
- Clean cloth
Step 1
Start with clean, fresh skin. Using hot water to bathe or clean the area with first will open the skin's pores to allow better absorption.
Step 2
Rub olive oil onto skin that is stretched or dry, and on areas of the skin that you want to prevent stretch marks on.
Step 3
Wipe excess olive oil off with a clean, dry cloth.
Step 4
Repeat steps one through three twice daily on areas of treatment.
Tips and Warnings
Consult a dermatologist regarding your stretch marks if you have questions or concerns.
Using olive oil on the skin may cause a shiny appearance. Excess olive oil on the skin's surface can transfer to clothing or furniture and stain cloth materials.
Make Your Own Olive Oil Lotion
For those who suffer from eczema and are too cautious to try products on the market because of past allergic reactions, you can make your own lotions and potions using all-natural ingredients. Mixing a few drops of water and 1/4 cup of olive oil will create a thicker paste that you can rub on your skin. Also, adding sugar to oil will create an exfoliant that can rid your skin of the flakiness caused by eczema. Be sure to follow this up with plenty of lotion. Using ingredients such as beeswax, honey or an egg will thicken olive oil so you can use it as a mask or strong, potent lotion.
Products You Can Purchase
To reap the full benefits of olive oil for those with eczema, always look for cosmetic products on the market that contain olive oil. These include lip balm, bath oils, lotions and massage oils. You can use these right after you bathe when pores are open or at night before you sleep.
If you suffer from extremely dry hands, try adding a few drops of pure olive oil into water and soak your hands in them. Then, rub a lotion containing olive oil onto your hands and cover them with gloves. If you can, sleep with the gloves on so by morning, your hands will be less flaky.
Instead of buying a moisturizer from the cosmetic department at the store, buy a small bottle of extra virgin olive oil and use this to moisturize your skin. Olive oil is a natural product that can be used on any part of your body, and its effects may be comparable to more expensive store-bought products.
Treat Blackheads:
When the expensive over the counter products just aren't working anymore to clear up pesky blackheads you may find yourself looking for a new solution. Blackheads are recognized by the tiny dark spots they leave on your skin from the clogging of the pores. This temperamental form of acne demands separate attention from the other acne that face washes and cleanser can eliminate. An inexpensive and natural alternative to eliminate these blemishes is olive oil.
Things You'll Need
- Olive oil
- Clean cloth
Step 1
Pour a small amount of olive oil into the palm of your hand.
Step 2
Massage the olive oil into your skin vigorously. This will help to work it into your skin and remove and dirt or makeup.
Step 3
Allow the olive oil to stay on your skin and work on your pores for 10 to 15 minutes.
Step 4
Run a clean cloth under hot water and wring it out well.
Step 5
Place the cloth over your face to cover up your blackheads and don't remove it until it is cool. The steam will help to further loosen the dirt that was clogged in your pores causing the blackheads.
Step 6
Remove the wash cloth and run it under hot water a second time for another steam application. The repeated steam from the cloth will help to rinse your face.
Step 7
Remove the cloth when it is cool and pat your skin dry gently with a soft clean dry towel.
Tips and Warnings
Adding castor oil to the olive oil can help to enhance the effect, but can easily dry skin out. For dry skin, a percentage of 10 percent castor oil to 90 percent olive will work. Experiment with the two oils to find a combination that works for your skin type. Use this method every other day to help clear up blackheads.
EVOO for Baby:
You can use EVOO to beautify yourself and taking care of your baby’s health
Baby Massage Therapy and Moisturizer after Bath
The Doctor's Guide reported on Nov. 3, 1997, that there are several benefits to massage or touch therapy for the parent and the child. Benefits include positive weight gain, decreased anxiety and improved motor development. Extra virgin olive oil use for baby massages has become increasingly popular. Sutter Health, a highly respected hospital in Sacramento, California, says that olive oil, along with canola and grape seed oils are popular choices for your baby's skin. Diaper rash and cradle cap also respond to extra virgin olive oil. Although the use of extra virgin olive oil is often used for baby skin, check with your doctor to make sure that it is suitable for your own baby.
Step 1
Fill the baby tub with warm water. Place the baby in the baby tub and wash him. Wash his hair with warm water and massage his scalp. Stroke his skin gently with a towel until he is dry.
Step 2
Place her face down on a flat surface. Pour a little extra virgin olive oil in your hands and rub it in the palm of your hands until it warms up. Massage it on her feet and legs. Massage in a circular motion and make sure all of the dry spots are covered.
Step 3
Move up to his buttocks and upper back while massaging gently. Refill your palm with olive oil as necessary. Rub the oil into his upper back and on his buttocks until the oil disappears.
Step 4
Turn her on her back so that her front side is facing you. Massage her chest, arms and face with some extra virgin olive oil. Do not put too much olive oil on her face.
Step 5
Pour some more olive oil into your hands. Rub your hands together vigorously and rub the oil into his hair. Add as much or as little oil as needed for the texture of his hair. Comb the oil through each strand of hair, and style it as you normally would.
Soothe Diaper Rash
Step 1
Mix an olive oil emulsion. Pour 2 tbsp. of olive oil and 1 tbsp. of water into a container. Shake the mixture briskly to form a white, almost milky emulsion.
Step 2
Remove the soiled diaper from the baby. Make sure you handle soiled diapers with care to limit the spread of germs and bacteria. Immediately wrap and dispose of the soiled diaper.
Step 3
Wipe his bottom well with a baby wipe. Get inside the crevices and folds of the skin. Wipe his bottom again with a warm, wet cloth to remove any residue left from the baby wipes. Dry his skin with a clean towel.
Step 4
Wash your hands thoroughly before applying the emulsion. Pour the emulsion of extra virgin olive oil and water into the palm of your hands. Rub it vigorously until it is warm. Spread the olive oil over her genitals and buttocks.
Step 5
Place a new diaper on the baby. Be sure the diaper fits snug enough to stay on but that it is not on too tight. Finish dressing him.
Cradle Cap
Cradle cap is a form of sebhorrheic dermatitis. It causes skin cells to build up which looks like a white, scaly cap on the top of a baby's head. According to the website for DrGreen.com, olive oil can be gently massaged into your baby's scalp. Once it is massaged in, you can leave it for on for a few minutes until the skin cells become soft. At that point you can gently rub them off with a soft towel or baby brush. However, don't leave the oil on too long, because it can develop into a mushy mess that can be hard to remove.
Things You'll Need
- EVOO
- Comb
- Towel
- Baby bath tub
Step 1
Pour a small amount of olive oil into the palm of your hands. Rub your palms together until the olive oil is warm.
Step 2
Massage the olive oil into her scalp. Cover her whole scalp, even those areas not affected by cradle cap. Leave the oil her scalp for 10 to 20 minutes. Leave the olive oil to soak into the crust overnight, says the Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota, if the crust is thick.
Step 3
Wash his scalp thoroughly using a mild baby shampoo. Remove the layers of crust with a comb, making sure not to apply too much pressure. Wash his hair a second and a third time to ensure removal of all of the olive oil.
Step 4
Dry his hair with a clean towel. Comb his hair and style it in your usual fashion. Wash any towels and washcloths used immediately in hot water. Disinfect both the bathtub and the baby's bathtub.
EVOO for Health
Heart Health
MayoClinic.com recommends extra virgin and virgin olive oils as the most heart healthy because of the way they are processed. Olive oil contains monounsaturated fat to reduce unhealthy cholesterol levels and decrease the risk of heart disease. LDL can accumulate on the inner walls of the arteries and decrease oxygen-rich blood to the heart. When the excess cholesterol clogs the blood vessels, it can lead to heart disease. Olive oil makes a healthy alternative to saturated and trans fats contained in butter, animal fats or partially hydrogenated oils that can increase cholesterol and contribute to clogging the arteries. Two tbsp. of olive oil a day may decrease your risk of heart disease.
Taking regular EVOO is beneficial in treating heart health problems such as:
- Coronary Heart Disease. Coronary heart disease is the most common type of heart disease. Increasing your dietary intake of virgin olive oil can improve your cholesterol levels and reduce your risk of coronary heart disease.
- Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction. Left ventricular systolic dysfunction is a type of heart failure characterized by insufficient blood that is pumped by your heart. Increasing the amount of virgin olive oil you consume can reduce your risk of heart failure. Research by scientists at the University of Athens School of Medicine in Greece published in the "Annals of Nutrition and Metabolism" in 2010 found that long-term consumption of virgin olive oil protected against the development of left ventricular systolic dysfunction in patients with previous acute coronary syndrome, a condition of sudden reduced blood flow.
Boosts Immunity
Substitute extra virgin olive oil for other fat sources to strengthen the immune system and lower the risk of high cholesterol and obesity, Northwestern University advises. The antioxidant polyphenols in olive oil may repress gene activity that promotes high blood pressure, increased cholesterol and type-2 diabetes, according to a study of 20 patients with high blood pressure and high cholesterol. The subjects consumed virgin olive oil-based breakfasts during the study, which was published in the April 10, 2010 issue of "BMC Genomics."
Cancer Protection
Polyphenols in olive oil may provide protective action against breast cancer, according to research reported in the Dec. 18, 2008, issue of "BMC Cancer." The research may lead to the development of drugs, based on the antioxidant activity, to fight cancers.
Degenerative Disease
The Mediterranean diet may lower the risk of disease in countries surrounding the Mediterranean Sea where people typically eat this kind of diet in which olive oil is the primary source of dietary fat. As reported by ScienceDaily, a research group working with the University of Granada studied the effects of olive oil in the Mediterranean diet. Researchers found that consuming extra virgin olive oil may improve the lives of people with oxidative stress and may help prevent cell aging and osteoporosis.The polyphenols in olive oil may be responsible for these benefits.
Antioxidants
Polyphenols, natural antioxidants, in extra virgin olive oil may boost the immune system, combat high cholesterol and lower risks of obesity and Type 2 diabetes, Northwestern University says. Researchers found that the polyphenols inhibit genes that play a role in high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes, according to a study reported in the April 10, 2010, issue of "BMC Genomics." Research focused on 20 people who had high blood pressure and high cholesterol and ate breakfasts high in virgin olive oil.
Cell Functioning
The antioxidants in extra virgin olive oil may prevent oxidation, which causes cell damage, to reduce the risk of cell aging and osteoporosis, a bone-degenerating disease that can affect people as they age, according to researchers working with the University of Granada. Because olive oil is the main source of dietary fat in the Mediterranean diet, the researchers examined the possible benefits from olive oil in that particular diet, ScienceDaily reports. Low levels of heart disease and other diseases occur in Mediterranean countries where the diet is practiced. The Mediterranean diet also includes high amounts of fruits, vegetables, grains and fish.
Appetite Suppressant
The biggest influence 1 tbsp. of extra virgin olive oil has on weight loss is its appetite-suppressing potential. Research conducted by Richard Mattes, appearing in "Obesity Research," showed that when monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats were consumed, such as those found in extra virgin olive oil, test subjects' feelings of fullness were higher than those who ate the same number of calories from nonfat sources. Fat is an essential macronutrient that performs many important functions in the body. Providing your body with healthy fats signals that you are getting these essential nutrients, even as you are losing body fat.
Blood Sugar Regulation
Keeping insulin levels stable is also important for weight loss. Carbs high in simple sugars cause your blood sugar levels to spike, resulting in sharp insulin spikes. Insulin promotes fat storage in the body while bringing your blood sugar levels back to normal. The Harvard School of Public Health says fat consumption will slow the digestion of a carb-heavy meal. This means extra virgin olive oil might help regulate insulin levels, thereby reducing fat storage.
Considerations:
While extra virgin olive oil can be beneficial to weight loss, it should be used in moderation. The Shangri-La Diet recommends that the full tablespoonful be taken at one time, but spreading this amount throughout the day might keep you feeling satisfied longer. Your body will react as if calories are being supplied in abundance because the digestive process would be spread out longer. Furthermore, the digestive process requires energy to perform its work. Continually keeping the digestive system running burns more calories than digesting one large amount of olive oil. This is one of the main reasons why groups such as the American Diabetes Association recommend eating five to six smaller meals per day.
Expert Insight
Adding prudent use of olive oil to your diet can help you with weight loss, but it is not an all-powerful solution. The American College of Sports Medicine says calorie restriction is integral for weight loss. You must include the calories you consume from the olive oil as part of your daily calorie total, so balance the rest of your diet accordingly. Exercise must also play a role in your weight loss program. Ingestion of olive oil should not occur prior to exercise because the digestive system will shut down in response to exercise. Exercising with olive oil still present in your stomach might even make you feel nauseous and sick.
Blood Pressure
Virgin olive oil can improve your blood pressure and reduce your risk of hypertension and stroke. Blood pressure is a measurement of force against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood, and it is determined by the amount of blood pumped and the size and flexibility of your arteries. Research by scientists at the Institute of Grasa in Sevilla, Spain, published in "Clinical Nutrition" in October 20043 found that dietary virgin olive oil reduces arterial blood pressure in elderly individuals with high blood pressure.
Ear Wax and Earache
Ear wax can be very problematic for some and build up over several years. It is a problem that affects the young and old alike. If the wax is left in the ear it can become hard and be difficult to remove. Olive oil is very useful in treating this condition and helping to remove stubborn wax buildup.
To use this olive oil remedy, add several drops to the ear canal and within 48 hours the excess wax should begin to release and come out of the ear. Additionally, according to drgreene.com, severely impacted ear wax can cause an earache in adults and children. The website recommends using olive oil to help relieve ear pain.
Remove Lice
Nothing is worse than having a bad hair day due to lice. Pediculosis, or head lice, is a contagious condition that is typically spread from head-to-head contact, according to the DSHS National Guideline Clearinghouse. Sometimes lice are spread in other ways, such as from sharing hair brushes or hats. Lice infestations usually occur where children congregate, such as in schools and at recreational facilities. Typically, complete lice removal takes around two weeks, and a mechanical nit comb is used on a daily basis to remove the insects. The National Guidelines Clearinghouse recommends washing hair with an olive oil based shampoo twice before using the nit comb. Don't rinse after the second shampoo. After wrapping the hair with a towel and leaving it on for about 15 to 20 minutes, begin lice removal with the nit comb. It's OK to use an olive oil based bar soap or pure olive oil also.
Another method is by rubbing olive oil into your hair and scalp, cover your head with a shower cap, and leave this treatment on while you sleep at night. When you wake up, wash your hair. This treatment kills the lice and their eggs, according to AskDrSears.com.
More use of EVOO
There are more benefits and use for EVOO besides for your health and beauty.
Care for Your Cat
According to curbly.com, add a teaspoon of olive oil to your cat’s food to help prevent hairballs, as well as promote a shiny, healthy coat. Olive oil is likely to be more gentle on a cat's system than petroleum-based anti-hairball lubricants. Plus, it has the benefit of coming from a renewable resource, as opposed to oil from the ground.
Ease Snoring
Kitties aren't the only ones who can take advantage of natural lubricating properties of olive oil. According to AltUse, taking a sip of olive oil before heading to bed can help lubricate your throat muscles, cutting down on snoring. Others have noted that downing a teaspoon of olive oil can help soothe a scratchy or ticklish throat.
Polish Furniture and Metal (and Condition Leather)
Silverware, copper and other metal items can be polished with ketchup or toothpaste. After you're done rub a bit of olive oil on to prevent streaks, corrosion and tarnish. According to Michael de Jong, to polish your desk, use two parts olive oil mixed with one part lemon juice.
Pour just a few drops on a soft cloth, wipe away the dust, scuffs and fingerprints, and make your desk shine. In fact this technique works well for a range of wooden furniture and objects. You can also condition and revitalize leather goods, such as baseball mitts, by rubbing in olive oil. Let set for 30 minutes, then wipe away any excess.
Free Stuck Zippers
There are few things more annoying than stuck zippers. So if you are vexed by this particular problem, break out the olive oil. Swab some of the stuff on the teeth of the zipper, then try gently easing it unstuck.
Fix Squeaky Doors
Olive oil can actually be used as a lubricant in many applications. It's safe to keep around the house, so you don’t have to worry about children or pets getting into it. Try it out on squeaky doors, hinges and anywhere else you might consider using WD-40 or another lubricant. While WD-40 may work well, it's also based on hydrocarbons, so anytime we can use less of those we're taking a step toward a cleaner world.
Sources:
http://www.thedailygreen.com/green-homes/latest/olive-oil-benefits-uses-460609#ixzz26hNxELBr
http://www.thedailygreen.com/green-homes/latest/olive-oil-benefits-uses-460609#ixzz26hNnkSBK
http://www.livestrong.com/article/155969-olive-oil-as-a-face-lotion/#ixzz26MGOxaki
http://www.livestrong.com/article/133849-olive-oil-face-treatment/#ixzz26MGKtSvG
http://www.livestrong.com/article/30503-use-olive-oil-fade-acne/#ixzz26MGHkd5H
http://www.livestrong.com/article/189556-olive-oil-as-a-face-wash/#ixzz26MGAlAIh
http://www.livestrong.com/article/184112-how-to-clean-your-face-with-olive-oil/#ixzz26MG3mmhl
http://www.livestrong.com/article/318266-is-extra-virgin-olive-oil-good-for-you/#ixzz26MG04ifM
http://www.livestrong.com/article/318126-health-advantages-of-extra-virgin-olive-oil/#ixzz26MFwNeAC
http://www.livestrong.com/article/313844-home-remedies-for-the-body-and-hair-with-olive-oil/#ixzz26MFsVaRL
http://www.livestrong.com/article/167093-extra-virgin-olive-oil-as-a-hair-conditioner/#ixzz26MFm8l3L
http://www.livestrong.com/article/166147-how-to-use-hot-olive-oil-for-hair/#ixzz26MFgea00
http://www.livestrong.com/article/145558-the-advantages-of-olive-oil-for-hair/#ixzz26MFLJrIl
http://www.livestrong.com/article/220541-how-to-use-extra-virgin-olive-oil-on-a-babys-skin/#ixzz26MF9pVSg
http://www.livestrong.com/article/122517-benefits-using-extra-virgin-olive/#ixzz26MD4V4Xe
Posted by Sekar Suci
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Oil: Extra Virgin Olive Oil, Random Talk, Tips
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
This is a new blog from www.crochetandlipstick.com and hanaiyzm.blogspot.com because my account has been hacked
Blog ini adalah blog baru dari www.crochetandlipstick.com dan hanaiyzm.blogspot.com karena blog saya yang sebelumnya diretas.
About Me
Sekar Suci
View my complete profile
Add Me
Blog Archive
► 2019 (3)
► April (1)
► March (2)
► 2018 (12)
► December (1)
► November (3)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► June (1)
► April (1)
► March (1)
► January (3)
► 2017 (18)
► December (3)
► November (2)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► June (4)
► March (2)
► February (3)
► January (2)
► 2016 (26)
► December (3)
► November (1)
► October (7)
► September (1)
► August (2)
► June (2)
► May (2)
► March (2)
► January (6)
► 2015 (39)
► December (8)
► November (7)
► October (4)
► September (3)
► August (9)
► May (3)
► April (1)
► March (2)
► January (2)
► 2014 (13)
► December (2)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► June (1)
► May (2)
► April (2)
► March (1)
► February (3)
► 2013 (4)
► December (1)
► October (1)
► August (1)
► June (1)
▼ 2012 (45)
► December (2)
► November (2)
► October (2)
▼ September (8)
Versatile Blogger Award
More EVOO (Extra Virgin Olive Oil) Benefits
Twotone Crochet Keychain
Review: Ellips Ultra Treatment Hair Vitamin
What I Do With EVOO (Extra Virgin Olive Oil)
Crochet Flower Ring and Earrings
Crochet Circles Idea
August 2012 Haul
► August (4)
► July (5)
► June (4)
► May (6)
► April (5)
► March (4)
► February (3)
► 2011 (8)
► December (1)
► November (3)
► October (2)
► August (1)
► March (1)
► 2010 (23)
► July (23)
Priceza Community
Surabaya Beauty Blogger
Blogger Babes
Popular Posts
Review: Purbasari Hi-Matte Lip Cream (Warna Baru Shade 6-11)
Review: Wardah Intense Matte Lipstick (All Shade)
Review: Kojie-san Pureganics Papaya Whitening Soap
Review: Purbasari Matte Lipstick (All Shade)
More EVOO (Extra Virgin Olive Oil) Benefits
Review: Bombi it Spring Hyaluronic CC Cream SPF 40 PA+++
Review: Koko Black by Exoticon Big Eyes Series - Jet Black
Review: PAC Satin Lip Cream (All Shade)
Review: Moodmatcher Lipstick by Fran Wilson (Black, Brown, Light Blue, Orange)
First Impression: Mazaya Skincare (Dermo Vitamin C Serum, Dermo Eye Treatment Gel & Moisturizer)
My Blog List
Labels
Accessories: Bag Accessories: Bangle/Bracelet Accessories: Brooch Accessories: Collar Accessories: Earrings Accessories: Hair Tie Accessories: Keychain Accessories: Necklace Accessories: Ring Acne Althea Korea Amigurumi Apple Cider Vinegar Blackhead Blue Circle Lense Body Care: Body Lotion Body Care: Deodorant Body Care: Peeling Gel Body Care: Scrub Body Care: Shower Gel Body Care: Soap Book Brand: A'pieu Brand: Acnes Brand: Annie's Way Brand: Bausch + Lomb Brand: Baviphat Brand: Biokos Brand: Boho Brand: Bombi Brand: C+M Brand: Cathy Doll Brand: Cell Alive Brand: Cherry Culture Brand: Clover Brand: Colly Brand: Cynos Brand: Elianto Brand: Ellips Brand: Emina Brand: Etude House Brand: Exoticon Brand: Face2Face Brand: Garnier Brand: Geo Softlens Brand: Holika Holika Brand: Ice Elements Brand: ICK Brand: Ilustra Brand: Innisfree Brand: Jergens Brand: Keiskei Brand: Kojie-san Brand: Kose Brand: Lifebuoy Brand: Luxcrime Brand: Makeup Store Brand: Marina Brand: Martha Tilaar Brand: Mazaya Brand: Miss Eye Softlens Brand: Moodmatcher Brand: Mukka Brand: Natur Brand: Odessa Cosmetics Brand: PAC Brand: Princess Softlens Brand: Purbasari Brand: Royalty Brand: Salsa Brand: Secret Key Brand: Senzues Brand: Shinzui Brand: Shiseido Brand: Skinlite Brand: SomeByMi Brand: Sophie Paris Brand: The Balm Brand: The Bath Box Brand: The Face Shop Brand: The Skin Food Brand: Trisia Cosmetics Brand: Urban Decay Brand: Urban Dollkiss Brand: Wardah Brand: Wink White Brand: X2 Brand: YSA Brand: Zoya Brooch Case Circle Lenses Circle Lenses: Solution Craft Crochet DIY Earrings Eau De Perfume Egyptian Magic Cream Empties Event Report Favorites First Impression Flower Food: Recipe FOTD: Face of The Day Fragrance: Body Mist Giveaway Hair Clip Hair: Conditioner Hair: Serum Hair: Shampoo Hair: Tonic Hair: Treatment Haul Headband Hermo Indonesia House Decor Keychain Makeup Talk Makeup: BB Cream Makeup: Blusher Makeup: Brushes Makeup: CC Cream Makeup: Cushion Makeup: Eye Primer/Base Makeup: Eye Shadow Makeup: Eyebrow Makeup: Eyeliner Makeup: Foundation Makeup: Lip Balm Makeup: Lip Cream Makeup: Lip Liner Makeup: Lipstick Makeup: Mascara Makeup: Powder Makeup: Primer My Review Nail: Nail Polish Nail: Nail Polish Remover Necklace New Launch NOTD: Nail of The Day Oil: Castor Oil Oil: Extra Virgin Olive Oil Online Shopping Owl Pattern Peeling Gel Problem: Acne Problem: Blackhead Problem: Pore Problem: Whitening Purse/Pouch Random Talk Retinoid SBB Projects Scarf Skin Care Talk Skin Care: Cleanser Skin Care: Cleansing Oil Skin Care: Emulsion Skin Care: Essence Skin Care: Facial Wash Skin Care: Mask Skin Care: Mask. Skin Care: Scub Skin Care: Moisturizer Skin Care: Peeling Gel Skin Care: Pore Pack Skin Care: Serum Skin Care: Sleeping Mask Skin Care: Sun Protection Skin Care: Toner Skincare: Facial Wash Skincare: Moisturizer Skincare: Moisturizer; Skincare: Eye Cream Skincare: Night Cream Skincare: Scrub Skincare: Serum Skull Spa Sponsored Surabaya Beauty Blogger Swatches Tips Tutorial Unboxing Wishlist
Theme images by Jason Morrow. Powered by Blogger.