Symptoms of Fishbone Stuck in Throat & Home Remedies to Get Rid of It
Simple-Remedies.com
Home Remedies for Common Illness
Menu
Home Remedies
Fungal Infections
ENT Disorder
Cough
Urinary Tract Infection
Menstrual Problems
Itching
Women’s Health Issues
Respiratory Disease
Hyperacidity and Heartburn
Chicken Pox
Health Tips
Health Tips 2
Health Tips 3
Health Tips 4
Health Tips 5
Health Tips 6
Symptoms of Fishbone Stuck in Throat & Home Remedies to Get Rid of It
A R Health Tips 6 September 2, 2011 September 2, 2011 Fishbone in Throat, Fishbone Stuck in Throat Symptoms, How to Get Rid of Fishbone Stuck in Throat Using Home Remedies	0 Comment
Choking on food happens when food fragments such as a fishbone get stuck in the upper portion of the airway. Sometimes people accidentally swallow a fishbone and it gets stuck in the throat. An incident like this can cause throat obstruction and severe pain in the throat, chest, and abdomen. In addition, the individual will also experience breathlessness because his throat is thwarted, swollen, or constricted.
This will require immediate remedy to remove the fishbone, stop the pain, and turn breathing back to normal.
Fishbone Stuck in Throat Symptoms
One drawback of eating fish is the presence of bones which vary in size and thickness and which has the tendency of getting stuck in the throat. Some fishes have short and hair-like bones while others have medium or long bones with sharp edges.
Choking happens for several reasons. It may occur when an individual eats fast, chews less, or talks while eating. Sometimes, this could happen when the person did not pick out the bones of the fish carefully before eating. Regardless of the causes, when a fishbone is stuck in the throat there is the constant stabbing pain each time he or she swallows.
A few other symptoms include:
High-pitched breathing
Severe drooling
Gagging
Difficulty in swallowing
Difficulty in speaking
Pain in swallowing
How to Get Rid of Fishbone Stuck in Throat Using Home Remedies
A fishbone stuck in the throat can be treated at home with a few tricks. However, if the fishbone is not removed immediately, it may cause difficulty in swallowing and eating. It can also lead to further throat infection.
Simple methods to get rid of a fishbone:
Try to expel the fishbone by coughing it out.
Face the mirror and check if your fingers can reach for the fishbone. Take it out gently.
Other home remedies include the following:
Egg. Break a raw egg into a teacup and swallow it without beating.
Swallow a table spoon of olive oil. It can make the bone slide down your throat.
Swallow a small or medium-sized chunk of foods such as:
Boiled rice
Bread
Pre-chewed marshmallows
Peanut butter sandwich
Gargle with vinegar. It slowly softens the bones.
Decoct a root of clematis with vinegar and brown sugar. Sip while hot.
If all efforts have been made yet the fishbone is still stuck in the throat, it is best to seek medical help immediately.
Related posts:
Symptoms of Irregular Bowel Movements and Its Natural Treatment
What are the Causes of Stinky Sweat and How to Stop It?
Simple & Complex Partial Seizures: Causes & Treatment Options
Symptoms Of Severe Anorexia: Causes And Treatment Options
Symptoms Of Abscess In The Appendix: Diagnosis And Treatment
← What are the Causes of Warts on Face & Effectively Remove them at Home
What are the Causes of Fluttering Feeling in the Chest and Heart →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Recent Posts
Hypervitaminosis A and D: Symptoms, Side Effects and Treatment
Causes and Home Remedies of Hot Urine in Males and Females
8 Ways to Naturally Stay Awake for a Longer Time
Powerful Oxygen Booster Plants that Purify Air and Release Oxygen
Symptoms of Concussion in Child: Causes and Treatment
Related Posts
Symptoms of Irregular Bowel Movements and Its Natural Treatment
What are the Causes of Stinky Sweat and How to Stop It?
Simple & Complex Partial Seizures: Causes & Treatment Options
Symptoms Of Severe Anorexia: Causes And Treatment Options
Symptoms Of Abscess In The Appendix: Diagnosis And Treatment
Copyright © 2019 Simple-Remedies.com. Powered by WordPress. Theme: Accelerate by ThemeGrill.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use