How to Balance Your Hormones After Birth Control
Fertility Issues
Fertility Therapies
Popular Articles
Fertility Cleansing
Fertility Diet
Egg Health
Shop
Success Stories
Contact Us
Fertility Products
Newsletter
About Us
Natural Fertility Info.com
Questions? Call us: 1 (800) 851-7957 | Shop Products
Fertility Issues
Absent Period
Blocked Fallopian Tubes
Birth Control Recovery
Cervical Mucus
Ectopic Pregnancy
Egg Health
Endometriosis
FSH Fertility
Hormone Balance
Hypothyroidism
IVF Preparation
Low Progesterone
Luteal Phase Defect
40+ Fertility
Men’s Fertility
Menstrual Health
Miscarriage
Ovarian Cysts
PCOS
Pregnancy Health
Premature Ovarian Failure
Stress & Fertility
Tubal Ligation Removal
Unexplained Infertility
Uterine Fibroids
Uterine Health
Fertility Therapies
Acupuncture
Antioxidants
Aromatherapy
Castor Oil Pack
Charting
DIM
Donq Quai
EFT
Evening Primrose Oil
Fertility Cleansing
Fertility Diet
Fertility Herbs
Fertility Massage
Fertility Multivitamin
Fertility Smoothies
Maca
Omega 3 EFA
Progesterone
Raspberry Leaf
Royal Jelly
Systemic Enzyme Therapy
Tribulus
Vitex
Yoga
Shop
Popular Articles
Success Stories
Success Stories
Interviews
By Category
Share Your Story
About Us
Meet the Team
Medical Advisors
Contact Us
Call us: 1 (800) 851-7957
Subscribe to The World's #1 Natural Fertility Website†
Subscribe Now
How to Balance Your Hormones After Birth Control
Home → Fertility Cleanse → How to Balance Your Hormones After Birth Control
How to Balance Your Hormones After Birth Control
Written by Dalene Barton-Schuster - Certified Herbalist, Birth Doula
Reviewed by Christine Traxler, MD
Updated December 3rd, 2018 , 260 comments
Article Overview
Birth Control & Fertility
Types of Birth Control
Natural Therapies
Diet & Cleansing
Herbs for Hormonal Balance
Fertility Massage
Thoughts on Birth Control
Summary
I want to begin this article by first examining our relationship with Birth Control, especially those containing hormones. While I feel that it is important to have the freedom to choose whether or not we want to be pregnant during certain times in our lives, the more I hear from women whose cycles have been disrupted from the use of birth control containing synthetic hormones, the more it makes me wonder if there might be a better way. If we could educate ourselves, delve deeper into understanding what they do in our bodies, as well as learn alternative methods of preventing pregnancy that may be more beneficial to long-term health, we might be able to prepare for conception in a healthier way.
Birth Control and Fertility
Coming off of birth control? Natural therapies can help you to bring your body back to balance...
Many doctors will prescribe oral contraceptive (pill) birth control if you have fertility issues such as PCOS Endometriosis, Ovarian Cysts or irregular menstrual cycles. While birth control may work for some time for those conditions, the birth control does not address the key issue of why you have that fertility issue to begin with. Birth control may reduce pain, reduce the incidence of ovarian cyst or regulate your cycle for some time and then when you stop taking it, your symptoms may come back. Many of you with these fertility issues still want to have children and taking birth control prevents that from happening. It is important to have clear communication with your doctor if you are still wanting to get pregnant while healing your body of your fertility issues at the same time. I have actually had women write in and say that their doctors did not make it clear to them that the pills they were prescribed for their fertility issues were actually birth control, which prevents pregnancy.
Daily we receive questions from women trying to get their menstrual cycles to regulate after coming off of birth control. When I speak of birth control I am speaking of the kinds that contain hormones or IUDs (which may affect the uterus and menstrual cycle). Birth Control Pills, Intrauterine Device also known as IUD (Copper T, Mirena, Progestasert), Implant (Implanon), The Ring (NuvaRing), The Patch (Ortho Evra), and Injectable Progestin (Depo-Provera) all contain synthetic hormones except for the Copper T IUD.
Anytime between the time you stop using it and up to a year afterward is considered a normal time frame in which it will take for your body, on its own to regulate your hormones and start a regular menstrual cycle. If you were taking birth control to help regulate your cycles or for other fertility issues, this average may not apply because your cycles may have not been regular to begin with. There are no guarantees that the birth control use is going to keep them regulated like when you were using it.
For some methods like the Implant or Depo-Provera, some women do not get their menstrual cycle at all and it seems that these women have a harder time getting their menstrual cycles to come back.
To understand contraception that affects our natural menstrual cycle, I have made a chart to help you learn what hormones are in each of the above birth control methods.
Types of Birth Control
Method How it Works
Birth control Pill Most birth control pills are combination pills, they contain estrogen and progestin. Some contain only progestin, but the majority of women use combination pills. These work by preventing the ovary from releasing eggs. They also thicken cervical mucus making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus. This method also thins the uterine lining which may prevent implantation.
Implanon A thin flexible, plastic implant that is the size of a cardboard matchstick. It contains Progestin. The Progestin keeps the ovaries from releasing eggs (ovulation). This hormone also thins the lining of the uterus, which may prevent implantation.
Ortho Evra This patch contains estrogen and progestin. These work by preventing the ovary from releasing eggs. They also thicken cervical mucus making it hard for sperm to reach the uterus. This method also thins the uterine lining which may prevent implantation.
Depo-Provera This injectable shot contains progestin. Progestin keeps the ovaries from releasing the eggs, thickening cervical mucus to prevent sperm from reaching the uterus and thinning the uterine lining which may prevent implantation. Note: continued use of Depo-Provera may stop the menstrual cycle completely and it may take longer than average (9 months-1 year for the menstrual cycle to regulate after stopping it). Once you have gotten a shot of Depo-Provera, side effects will not dissipate for 12-14 weeks as this is how long the shot’s hormone exists in the body.
Nuva-Ring This ring contains the same hormones as combination birth control pills.
The progestin and estrogen prevent ovulation, thicken the cervical mucus, and thin the uterine lining which may prevent implantation.
IUD The IUD prevents the sperm from moving correctly, preventing the sperm from meeting and connecting with the egg. It may also affect the uterine lining which may cause implantation problems, but there is no proof of this.
Mirena IUD This IUD contains progestin which prevents ovulation as well as thickens cervical mucus. It also prevents the sperm from moving correctly toward the egg, preventing conception.
I wanted to share this information with you so that you can see how these birth control methods directly affect hormones and the entire natural menstrual cycle. Progestin and estrogen contained in birth control are chemically created in a lab to imitate our natural progesterone and estrogen. When we use these birth control methods, they are releasing hormones in our bodies at times they naturally would not, disrupting the menstrual cycle and preventing pregnancy.
Some estrogens are made from pregnant mare’s urine, but is more often used for hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in older women. Continued use of progestin has been linked to thinning of the bones when it is being used; it is important to talk to you doctor about this serious risk.
Natural Remedies To Bring Back A Healthy Menstrual Cycle
The overall goal when coming off of birth control and wanting to try and conceive would be to nourish and support the entire hormonal feedback loop, egg health, cervical mucus, and uterine health.
Step 1: Nourish and Cleanse
Fertility Cleansing for Liver, Hormonal and Uterine Support
The body may greatly benefit from some gentle cleansing of the liver and uterus when coming off birth control. The liver has to metabolize synthetic hormones and becomes overloaded and taxed during birth control use. The liver cleanse portion of the Fertility Cleanse helps to remove those excess hormones. The uterine cleansing phase may help to tone and cleanse the uterus. When a woman has not had a regular menstrual cycle for some time because of birth control use it may need some herbal support; the herbs in this phase are nourishing, supportive, toning and cleansing for the uterus. Because progestin has been linked to thinning of the uterine lining, the uterus may really benefit from uterine tonic herbs. These herbs also support hormonal balance and healthy cervical mucus.
Fertility cleansing may be a great way for anyone who is experiencing challenges when coming off hormonal birth control to create a foundation for hormonal balance and a healthy uterus for implantation. Fertility cleansing helps to create a “clean slate” within the body that helps the body to respond and utilize other natural remedies better.
Natural Fertility Diet
Eating a whole food, nutrient dense fertility diet has been shown to increase the chances of pregnancy. Because hormones in birth control may affect our metabolism, digestion, and nutritional levels, eating properly is going to be very important when on birth control as well as afterward to replenish depleted nutritional levels.
Use of birth control containing hormones affects the levels of folic acid, riboflavin (vitamin.B2), vitamin B6, vitamin B12, vitamin C, vitamin E and zinc. It would be wise to take a good whole food multivitamin during and after birth control use to prevent nutritional deficiency and restore already depleted levels.
While this is but one study, a 2010 pilot study in Fertility and Sterility including 61 females with thin endometrial lining (<8mm) concluded that 52% of the 25 women given Vitamin E (600mg/day), saw these results:“improved the glandular epithelial growth, development of blood vessels, and vascular endothelial growth factor protein expression in the endometrium.”
Women using birth control consistently for 6 months or longer have been shown to have significantly lower levels of tryptophan; vitamin B6 supplements can help normalize tryptophan metabolism.
Prolonged use of hormone-containing birth control may also lead to anemia so you may also want to consider taking a wholefood iron supplement.
Birth control also changes the pH levels in the vagina, this may lead to yeast infection. Taking a good probiotic supplement containing Lactobacillus may support the body in maintaining healthy vaginal flora. Probiotic vaginal suppositories have been found to be more effective than oral pills and these are available, too.
Prolonged use of progestin has been shown to thin the bones, be sure that you are eating adequate amounts of calcium-rich foods like dark leafy greens, sesame seeds, seaweed, almonds, quinoa, chia, as well as limited amounts of organic dairy, yogurt, and cottage cheese.
Step 2: Herbal Support for Restoring Hormonal Balance and Promoting Ovulation
If you have tried to change your diet, are taking a whole food multivitamin and you still do not have a menstrual cycle yet you may want to learn how herbs for fertility can help promote hormonal balance, restore ovulation and bring back a normal menstrual cycle. Restoring a natural menstrual cycle is also important for egg health. Hormonal birth controls prevents ovulation, which can decrease egg health. Our follicles require a normalized release of our natural hormones and adequate nutritional levels; synthetic hormones disrupt these which may impact egg health.
Fem Rebalance
Once you have stopped using hormonal birth control your body may be confused and in shock. One day your body was receiving hormones and then suddenly it was not. On top of that, your liver may still contain some of those synthetic hormones, which may confuse the body further.
Fem Rebalance is an herbal blend designed with great consideration to women whose bodies may need support to restore hormonal balance when coming off of birth control containing hormones, HRT (hormone replacement therapy) or great times of stress, including rapid weight loss or gain. This blend may help to restore proper hormonal function.
Suggested usage for this blend would be for 2-3 months after coming off of hormonal birth control. This blend is not recommended for use during fertility cleansing.
Tribulus Terrestris
If you know you are not ovulating and you are struggling to get your cycle back you may want to learn more about this South Asian herb. OIn her text Botanical Medicine for Women’s Health, physician, midwife, and herbalist Dr. Aviva Romm shares of one study performed on 36 women who were not ovulating, showed that 67% realized normal ovulation after only 2-3 months of consistent use of Tribulus; 300-400mg a day, from day 5-14 of their menstrual cycle. This herb has been found to stimulate ovulation. Tribulus has been used traditionally for hundreds of years to promote healthy fertility in both women and men.
Vitex
Vitex supports the hormonal feedback loop. This herb also promotes and has been shown to regulate ovulation. It has the ability to adapt to the individual hormonal needs of each woman. Because Vitex has proven effective for a variety of menstrual issues it may be a great choice to start off on the right foot toward restoring a healthy natural menstrual cycle.
It has been shown to be most effective when used for 6-12 months consistently. Vitex is a remedy that has been shown to be very effective, but requires patience. It can take some time to achieve desired results, especially when coming off of birth control, but this herb is specific for regulating menstruation.
Dong Quai
Dong Quai (angelica sinensis) is one of the most powerful female tonic and fertility herbs. Dong Quai tonifies and strengthens the uterus by regulating hormonal control, improving uterine tone, and improving the timing of the menstrual cycle.
Dong Quai works by promoting blood flow to the pelvis where it will stimulate an absent or scanty period. It also nourishes the blood (it is in nearly all Chinese herbal blood-building formulas). Dong quai, being iron-rich is useful in treating iron deficiency anemia. One of the best uses is to help women who are not menstruating get their menstruation back. The increased circulation also helps to strengthen and balance the uterus.
In rat studies it has been shown to help build the uterine lining. In one 2006 study, rats with their ovaries removed (and as a result low estrogen) were administered standardized Dong Quai Extract and researchers measures significant positive stimulation of uterine tissues. Improvements were not more than hormone replacement therapy with estrogen, but enough to show the estrogenic nature of Dong Quai. (Phytotherapy Research)
We have learned that some types of birth control contain progestin, which may cause the uterine lining to become thin over time. Prolonged birth control use in some women has also been linked to anemia. Because Dong Quai is a wonderful uterine and blood tonic, it may help the body to restore a healthy uterine lining and help prevent anemia.
Maca
Maca is one of the best supportive tonics for our endocrine system, which controls and produces many of our hormones. This root is very nourishing. Maca root supports overall hormonal balance and may greatly support our bodies through times of stress. An important aspect when dealing with discontinuing synthetic hormones is the stress factor. It is extremely stressful on our bodies to take synthetic hormones and then abruptly stop them. Maca may help to restore hormonal harmony once again.
RejuvaFlow
Many women do not have a menstrual period for many months to even years after discontinuing birth control. If you have not had a menstrual period after coming off of birth control, you may want to consider RejuvaFlow. This is an activating herbal blend designed to encourage and promote healthy menstruation. It is a specialized herbal formula designed to help encourage or “re-start” the monthly menses that is missing due to hormonal irregularities. RejuvaFlow supports menstrual health by increasing circulation to the reproductive system, helping to “build the blood” and promote a normal, regular menstrual cycle once again.
Step 3: Restore Healthy Cervical Mucus
Once the menstrual cycle is restored, healthy cervical mucus production should be restored as well. If you find you are still struggling with lack of cervical mucus you may want to consider supplements that have been shown to help promote healthy CM production.
Cervical mucus production may be altered for some time as well since the hormones in birth control thicken cervical mucus for some time. Supplements that have proven results for restoring healthy CM are Evening Primrose Oil, Borage Oil, L-Arginine and Fertile CM. Be sure to drink plenty of water daily. At first you may also want to consider using a sperm friendly lubricant until your natural healthy cervical mucus is restored.
Step 4: Abdominal or Fertility Massage
Across the board, massage therapy is one of the most supportive ways you can support the body in healing. More specifically fertility or abdominal massage focuses specifically on the reproductive system, helping to promote ovulation, support communication with the endocrine system, improve circulation to the uterus and ovaries (which strengthens the uterus and promotes healthy eggs); it also supports the body in ridding it of those excess toxins and hormones. This type of massage is a great way to be directly connected to healing your fertility. You can find a practitioner who specializes in fertility or abdominal massage or you can learn how to do this massage for yourself with the Self Fertility Massage method.
Circulatory massage is the most common healing method used for enhancing the proper flow of blood through the entire body and providing relaxation to the various muscles. ~ Pacific College of Oriental Medicine
Additional Thoughts on Birth Control
The Love and Hate Relationship with Birth Control
We must give a lot of respect to birth control and the variety of options for birth control we have today. We now have more control than ever to choose when and if we want to have children. But regardless, I feel many women and men have lost their true relationship with their body, which also means they may have lost respect for birth control. Many continue to use it without thinking of the consequences of long-term use. It is important to remember that we are still creatures of the Earth, our bodies are made up of the same materials as the Earth and we are filling them with foreign man-made substances that may greatly impact our health.
Choosing Birth Control Wisely
I am asking each person to be responsible for their choices and actions, research the facts on long-term side effects of birth control use so that when you choose to use birth control you are understanding that it may affect your fertility and health later in life. Weigh the risks; getting pregnant or not getting pregnant? How will getting pregnant impact my life? How will preventing pregnancy impact my health? How can you balance those choices to serve your highest good? Ask yourself, is this something I am willing to use long-term or is this a short-term goal? How will taking this impact my fertility? Are there better or safer options for me? There are options out there that may be just as effective as hormonal birth control, but may take more diligence when using them. Condoms, diaphragm, spermicides and charting your cycle (fertility awareness method, natural family planning, BBT, cycle beads and OPK) are some alternatives to hormonal birth control.
Be Patient, Be Gentle With Yourself
The body goes through a lot of confusion and stress when coming off of birth control. Be patient with your body and give it time to adjust to the intense hormonal shifts that have to take place. Expect that you may feel sad, angry, depressed and simply “off”. This is normal when any hormonal adjusting is taking place. Be gentle with yourself and how you are feeling. Know that you can work toward restoring your natural hormonal state and can move on to working toward trying to conceive through proper nutritional, herbal and natural therapy support.
Summary
If you have chosen to come off birth control to prepare for conception there are many natural therapies we have covered to help you along the way. Many women are able to get pregnant regardless of using birth control for years, but some may have some lingering imbalances. Here are some of the natural options covered in this article:
1. Support hormonal balance with a healthy fertility diet.
2. Fertility cleansing helps to support the body’s natural ability to cleanse excess hormones from the system.
3. Herbs such as vitex, tribulus, maca and dong quai can help to restore hormone balance.
4. Promote cervical mucus production with natural supplements like evening primrose oil or L-Arginine.
5. Increase circulation to the reproductive system with fertility massage.
Too learn more about related subjects covered in this article, please visit the following links:
5 Steps to Reversing Endometriosis Infertility
Fertility Tip: How to Enhance Fertility After IUD Removal
References
Planned Parenthood. (n.d.). Birth Control Methods & Options | Types of Birth Control. Retrieved from: https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control
Takasaki,A., Tamura, H., Miwa, I., Taketani, T., Shimamura, K., et al. (April 2010). Endometrial growth and uterine blood flow: a pilot study for improving endometrial thickness in the patients with a thin endometrium. Fertility and Sterility. Volume 93, Issue 6, Pages 1851–1858. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fertnstert.2008.12.062. Retrieved from https://www.fertstert.org/article/S0015-0282(08)04783-3/fulltext
Circosta, C., De Pasquale, R. & Palumbo, D., Samperi, S. and Occhiuto, F. (2006). Estrogenic activity of standardized extract ofAngelica sinensis. Phytotherapy research : PTR. 20. 665-9. 10.1002/ptr.1928. Retrieved from https://www.researchgate.net/publication/7089047_Estrogenic_activity_of_standardized_extract_ofAngelica_sinensis
PCOM. (2017, December 18). Benefits of Circulatory Massage. Retrieved from https://www.pacificcollege.edu/news/blog/2014/12/16/benefits-circulatory-massage
Tori Hudson, ND. (2008). Women’s Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine, pp 55-62. McGraw Hill
Northrup, C. (2010). Women’s Bodies, Women’s Wisdom, pp 394-412. New York: Bantam Books
Romm, A. (2010). Botanical Medicine for Women’s Health. St. Louis, Missouri: Churchill Livingstone.
Dalene Barton-Schuster - Certified Herbalist, Birth Doula
Practicing natural health and herbalism for over 18 years, Dalene received her training and herbal certification under the guidance of Lynn Albers at Yarmony Mt. Herbal College in Colorado in 2000. She went on to become a Certified Birth Doula at Birthingway College of Midwifery in Portland, Oregon in 2007. As a Birth Doula, Dalene has helped to bring many new lives in to this world. Dalene has written 280+ fertility articles and with her vast array of herbal and holistic healing knowledge has helped 1000’s of women on their journey to Motherhood.
Dr. Christine Traxler M.D., OB/GYN
Dr. Traxler is a University-trained obstetrician/gynecologist, working with patients in Minnesota for over 20 years. She is a professional medical writer; having authored multiple books on pregnancy and childbirth; textbooks and coursework for medical students and other healthcare providers; and has written over 1000 articles on medical, health, and wellness topics. Dr. Traxler attended the University of Minnesota College of Biological Sciences and University of Minnesota Medical School, earning a degree in biochemistry with summa cum laude honors in 1981, and receiving her Medical Doctorate degree (MD) in 1986.
https://natural-fertility-info.com/medical-review-team
Share via:
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
More
Related Articles
How To Use Rose in a Natural Fertility Program
Natural Options For Support While Taking Birth Control
Study in Review: Menstrual Cramp Relief with Calcium
Choosing Between Maca & Vitex? What You Need To Know
Worried about Your AMH and FSH? It May Not Be as Important as Once Thought
Comments
Let your voice be heard... Leave a brief comment or question related to this article.
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
characters available
[-] 260 Comments
Andy
2:53 pm on November 12, 2018
I am a 30 year old female who stopped hormonal BCPs7 months ago. I had been on the pill for 4 years and before then, I had regular menstrual cycles my entire life. After 3 months of no period (following stopping the pill), I saw a specialist. Provera prescribed by my OBGYN had failed to work. I had a high AMH level and my ultrasound showed some cystic ovaries. The specialist immediately put me on metformin. 3 rounds of failed meds/injectables later, I am still not pregnant. We have decided to take a break and I just purchased the Fertility Cleanse to begin. I personally feel I have pill induced pcos and I hope to regulate my cycle again. Do you recommend a specific combo of herbs/products?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett - M.A., Certified Herbalist
8:20 am on November 13, 2018
Dear Andy,
The Fertility Cleanse is a great place to start, and do place focus on a Fertility Diet with regular exercise. Then given PCOS may not have yet been an official diagnosis (I’m sorry, I am not clear on that…), I might suggest learning more about fertility massage, castor oil packs, and the herbs in Fem Rebalance. The tips in this very guide are all worth considering as a starting point. If you do get an official PCOS diagnosis, there may be a slight shift in program, but you’ll already have made a great start!
ka chee
10:35 pm on September 9, 2018
hey you guys. please help me. I am a 21-year-old who was diagnosed with hypothyroid a few years ago. I also had a small cyst in my ovary so i was put on birth control about 4 years ago. I quit taking birth control about 16-18 month ago and has my period ok for some month. it was a little heavy and very painful but I had them. I would skip a month some times but overall it was good. but now I haven’t had my period for 4 months and I have been breaking out ever since I stopped my birth control and it seemed to get worse as time went on. I feel like my hormones are super out of wack due to my thyroid and I don’t want to be on birth control. please help me find something that will help me.
Reply
Elizabeth Willett - M.A., Certified Herbalist
10:23 am on September 10, 2018
Dear Ka chee,
I am sorry for all you are going through! Have you been back to a healthcare provider to re-evaluate thyroid function and ovarian health? This may be a good time to do so. As you contemplate this, this very guide will hopefully be helpful as is the information we offer in our guide Solve Thyroid Problems Before Conceiving a Baby.
I hope the guides I have shared have been helpful, but I can’t help but wonder if you may benefit from personalized support through a Fertility Consultation. By booking a Natural Fertility Consultation you will have access to: an herbalist who is assigned to you, answers to all of your questions, a detailed plan created specifically for you to get the best results with your Natural Fertility program.
maddison Ray
8:48 pm on August 1, 2018
Does birth control actually prevent ovarian cyst?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
11:45 am on August 2, 2018
Dear Maddison,
We know the most common medical treatment for functional ovarian cysts to be birth control pills. This prevents ovulation, therefore the formation of functional ovarian cysts.
Birth control pills are problematic though,they prevent pregnancy, may cause long-term hormonal imbalance, they do not solve the root of the problem.
Nastaran
1:14 am on July 17, 2018
Hi everyone, I never believed in birth controls and always used other means to prevent pregnancy. A few month ago I went to my doctor and asked her for an explanation as to why my periods seemed a little irregular. (After 10 ten days, it stopped for 2, 3 days and them again for about 2 or 3 days I saw spots of blood.)
She prescribed a birth control to fix the problem. I took the first pill on the first day of my period and then the bleeding didn’t stop after 15 days so I went to her again and she gave me another pill with higher dose of hormones in it and some Trancid Acid to stop the bleeding. It did not stop!
So I changed my doctor and he told me to continue with Trancid Acid and prescribe
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
10:16 am on July 17, 2018
Dear Nastaran,
Your message seems to have been cut off…
That said, it seems further investigation may be needed into whether the pills have caused the extended bleeding or something else. If the pills are making you bleed more than the spotting prior to starting them, they don’t seem right for you. I must share that I am not a medical doctor. This is just my observation based on what you’ve shared.
Catherine
9:31 pm on July 8, 2018
Hi Elizabeth,
I tried the Fertility Cleanse 2 months after getting my implant out & my periods started as I was finishing the cleanse. Loved loved the cleanse, but now (4 months after the cleanse) my periods have shortened to 2 day periods, which is really scary.Plus my skin is so dry(I’m applying coconut oil several times a day for relief)& my hair is falling out.I understand it’s probably too soon to try the cleanse again, but I don’t know what to do with the ongoing effects of the implant.Its been 8 months since I got it out& my body is still going through side effects.I’m taking a multivitamin & Maca,but is there anything else I can do to get my body past all these icky problems? Thanks
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
9:44 am on July 9, 2018
Dear Catherine,
I am so glad your cleansing experience was positive. It is suggested to cleanse only two times a year with about a 6 month break. Have you talked to your doctor about the symptoms you experience now? Consider discussing or evaluating thyroid function. Dry skin, female hair loss and even short periods can be signs of thyroid dysfunction.
Taking a multivitamin and Maca are a great start. Diet is key and there may be additional herbs to learn about as shared in this guide and to support healthy thyroid function.
Cyntly
8:46 am on May 16, 2018
Dear Elizabeth,
I’m a ttc. Due to previous miscarriages my doctor gave me progesterone before ovulation on cd6 for 6days,not knowing that it will affect my ovulation. After that, I had a breakthrough bleeding on cd 16. Currently, I’m on day 16 of my new cycle and no ovulation yet.
I’d really like to find out how long it will take for me to get my real period and ovulation.
Response will be appreciated…
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
10:53 am on May 17, 2018
Dear Cyntly,
I am sorry for your losses!
Using progesterone cream before ovulation will stall ovulation. With anovulatory cycles, pregnancy can not happen. There are times when this way of using progesterone cream for around 3 cycles is suggested to help “reset” the cycle and encourage ovulation after its use this way is stopped.
I am sorry I can not give you a time frame for how long it will take your body to relearn balance. I am not sure I know enough about your situation. It seems is might be most helpful to learn about and consider a Fertility Consultation, which you can do here…
Briana
8:05 am on May 8, 2018
Any tips on alternative liver cleanses for those of us with ragweed allergies? I’ve noticed that many of the liver-cleansing herbs are in the ragweed family. I have been on oral birth control for 9 years and would love to complete a liver cleanse after quitting the pill.
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
1:14 pm on May 8, 2018
Dear Briana,
I know of no other Fertility Cleanse, but we do share many tips to consider in our guides
Natural Therapies to Help Your Body Detox and 10 Detox Tips for Women Trying to Get Pregnant.
Many of the tips in those guides can be combined.
Liara
6:51 pm on April 12, 2018
Hi,
I stopped having periods when i was 22 due to stress and poor eating habits and since then i have been on ocp on and off. I am 26 now. I am going to get married so now want to stop ocp for once and all.I want to now heal myself naturally.My estrogen and progesterone levels were very low. I exercise regularly but my weight is still the same though i have lost inches. I bought maca but want to know can i combine it with rejuva flow or dong quai or something else.I started on ocp because i didn’t get periods for like 6 months.Now i don’t get periods unless i use ocp.I am all freaked out as absense of periods calls for a lot of ailments.Please help
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
9:48 am on April 16, 2018
Hello Liara!
Maca can be combined with many herbs, RejuvaFlow, Dong Quai, Vitex, etc. This very guide contains many things to consider, from modifying your diet, to learning if you exercise too much or too little, to herbs, etc. I get a sense however that the best way we can offer support is through our Fertility Consultation program. Have you heard of this? If not, do take time to learn more about our Fertility Consultations here…
Sheri Lang, CRNP
9:07 am on March 15, 2018
I appreciate your talking about the harm that can be caused by chemical contraceptives. There is a very good alternative in the Creighton Model of natural family planning. It is highly researched, pinpoints the times of fertility and infertility better than any other means available, and can help couples both to avoid and to achieve pregnancies. It has applications for infertility (the system working better than in vitro fertilization) and for other women’s health issues.
Reply
sharon
4:11 am on February 8, 2018
I normally have a regular 27 days cycle and ovulate on day 12, but i had to take Norethisterone to delay may period in September 2017. I had a normal period following that but my next period was 5 days late (no possibility of pregnancy) and my last 4 periods have all come a week early on day 21/22 of my cycle. I’m also spotting a few days before the period comes which isn’t normal for me. I’m concerned as to why my periods are remaining short. It’s been almost 6 months of irregular cycles and my ovulation appears to be coming on day 7-8. What would you recommend on getting my balance back?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
9:43 am on February 8, 2018
Dear Sharon,
May I know why you had to take Norethisterone? If you would rather share in private, please email me attention Elizabeth here…
I do think this guide was a great place to start. Consider revisiting the information under the heading Natural Remedies To Bring Back A Healthy Menstrual Cycle; consider the Fertility Diet and learn more about Fertility Cleansing. Then consider learning more about Fem Rebalance or FertiliCare Phase 1 & 2 and the herbs in them. Something nice may be Self Fertility Massage as well. Given what I know this may be the best place to start.
sharon
2:57 am on February 9, 2018
Hi Jane,
I took Norethistrone for a couple of days to delay my period for a holiday. I had taken it about 10 months prior to this for the same reason. All prescribed by my GP. I haven’t been on any form for birth control for over 6 years and my cycle and ovulation was precise every month, so i am concerned taking it twice in a 12 month period has thrown off my cycle. I’ve had a read of the information you suggested and its been very helpful. I’ve ordered some Vitex to try after seeing peoples reviews of it saying it helped with the situation i have.
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
10:44 am on February 9, 2018
Hello again Sharon!
Thank you for sharing that. By taking birth control, one is taking synthetic hormones which will imbalance hormones to stop ovulation and prevent pregnancy. This for some women does have lasting effects, but not all women. There are many other things that impact the timing of the menstrual cycle however, things like gaining or losing weight quickly, nutritional deficiencies, stress, exercising less than accustomed or too much, starting new health programs (from which cycle shifts are almost always temporary) and even travel. So many things could be factoring in.
I hope you are able to use the tips shared in this guide and do allow Vitex time to show you it’s working for you.
Patricia
8:36 pm on January 30, 2018
I just got off my birth control (nexplanon) after 2 years and I’m looking for something that will help me balance my hormones and get me feeling normal again. I feel anemic and have a super low libido now. I just want all my energy back. I’m not trying to get pregnant I just want to get myself back on track. what’s the best supplement to take?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
9:15 am on January 31, 2018
Dear Patricia,
Have hope!
Given what I know consider starting with what is shared above under the heading Natural Remedies To Bring Back A Healthy Menstrual Cycle. Diet is key. Cleansing can be very helpful. Then herbs or supplements may be used to support a return to the energetic self you once knew.
Akash
7:39 am on January 16, 2018
Is it necessary to consult any local doctor before changing any diet plans?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
9:36 am on January 16, 2018
Dear Akash,
It is not unless you have a health issue that causes dietary restrictions, or are on medications that could be impacted by dietary changes. Diet changes may still be fine, but your doctor should know in the event your medication dose needs to be adjusted.
Cristina
4:23 am on January 2, 2018
Dear Elisabeht, thanks for all the great info! I came off the pill two years ago (I was taking the pill to fight my severe acne due to hormone imbalance, it cleared my acne but gave me severe migraines) and my doctor recommended taking Vitex right after. I stopped taking it after 8 months because all my acne and cystic acne had completely cleared up so I believed my hormone levels were balanced. Sadly my acne came back after a couple of months so I started taking vitex again. It has been 7 months and my acne has finally cleared again. How long should I keep taking vitex for? Thank you for your advice.
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
10:02 am on January 2, 2018
Dear Christina,
In general we have found that Vitex can be taken for 12 months or so before weaning off of it to see how the body maintains balance on it’s own. Have you had hormonal testing to know where your levels stand? Are you also addressing your diet to ensure it is not contributing to the acne? Perhaps my guide 6 Ways to Promote Hormonal Balance to Prevent Cyclic Acne will share other helpful tips too.
It is so great to hear that Vitex is helping!
Kathy
8:48 am on December 29, 2017
Hopefully it’s not too late in these conversation to have a question answered about Vitex: Can vitex be taken along with birth control pills?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
9:10 am on December 29, 2017
Dear Kathy,
We do not suggest combining Vitex with birth control. Herbs that act on the hormonal system could affect how your medications are working.
Kathy
11:12 am on December 29, 2017
Thank you so much for commenting so quickly! Have a happy and healthy new year!
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
1:11 pm on December 29, 2017
You’re very welcome Kathy!
Jane
11:00 am on October 10, 2017
I was diagnosed of PCOS through pelvic and endometriosis through laparoscopy. In line with doctor’s prescription, I took DMPA every fortnight for six months (twice in a month for 6 months). I finished the treatment March. However, I noticed that I do not have normal vaginal secretions e.g. to depict ovulation) again and the period was irregular with lots of spotting. After the DMPA treatment, my doctor placed me on clomid for three months but I did not get pregnant. I have resolved to go for natural treatment. Please help me out.
Note: I mistakenly came across my laparoscopy reports. One thing I was able to get is that fallopian tubes posteriously bound by adhesions. Please what does that
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
1:20 pm on October 10, 2017
Dear Jane,
We are more than happy to work with you! The very best way to receive a full plan designed specifically for your fertility health needs is to have a Fertility Consultation.
Through a Fertility Consultation, you will submit your comprehensive intake form, including information about your fertility history, your 3 detailed questions and overall goal for your fertility and within 5 business days one of our Master Herbalists will review, layout and explain each step of your consultation. Once completed, your Fertility Consultation will be emailed to you as a PDF and you get a live link to an audio recording to save and review as often as you need. You also receive the opportunity to continue your relationship with your herbalist through follow-up email correspondence for a few weeks after receiving your consultation, with any questions you may have regarding your consultation.
To learn more or book a Fertility Consultation click on this link…
Jessica
7:17 am on August 8, 2017
Hi,
I came off of implanon on the 19th June 2017 and to date (08/08/2017) I am yet to have a period. Although I am aware that they were not real and were most likely breakthrough bleeds I did have a period every 28-32 days whilst on the implant so am becoming increasingly concerned why my cycles aren’t coming back. My husband and I have decided to wait to start trying properly until my cycles and hormonal balance get back to some normality but for some reason I am being plagued with worry that it isn’t happening.
I am taking a good multi with high vitamin B complex and magnesium and also daily taking agnus castus alongside a good diet. What else can I do?
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
3:13 pm on August 8, 2017
Hello Jessica!
Do consider Steps 1, 2, 3 & 4 under the heading Natural Remedies To Bring Back A Healthy Menstrual Cycle of this very guide. What you are already taking is great! Vitex or Vitex agnus castus needs time to be effective! What tools do you have that you feel work at helping the worry subside? Worrying is counterproductive although I completely know it’s hard not to do. Maybe trying positive affirmations while doing Self Fertility Massage or on your daily walk would be helpful.
Patience is key and you’ve already begun a great program!
Lina
9:00 pm on July 17, 2017
Hello, I stopped taking birth control in November, after only being on it for 6 months, since then i’ve had every other month. I started taking dong qui to jump start my period and it helps, i now added vitex. My question is, is it safe to take Dong Qui and Vitex to try and conceive? if so, how much of each should i take?
thanks for your help
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
10:24 am on July 18, 2017
Dear Lina,
Fertilica Vitex and Dong Quai can be taken together when actively trying to conceive. It is always best to follow the usage instructions of the manufacturer you purchase from. With that though, general suggested use of Vitex is 900-1000mg and it is best weaned off of in early pregnancy with support or your healthcare provider, herbalist or midwife. Suggested use of Fertilica Dong Quai Liquid Extract is 30 drops, 2 times a day in a little water. A general dose in capsule form is usually 2,000 to 4,000 mg per day. We suggest starting with the lowest suggested dose and working up from here if need be.
Silvs17
3:09 pm on June 21, 2017
i was on Birth Control and gave me anxiety and depression and other side effects. i stopped taking it about 3 weeks ago and i still don’t fully feel myself. haven’t started my period, been having really bad PMS symptoms. been super tired and nauseous. i know I’m not pregnant. i just want my health back.
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
12:56 pm on June 23, 2017
Hi Silvs17!
I am sorry and I know! That is exactly what hormonal birth control did to me.
The tips in this guide could be considered. Drink lots of water, in fact start your day with a quart of water with the juice of 1/2 a fresh lemon squeezed in, eat as healthy as you can, lots of dark green leafy veggies and salads, consider a whole food multivitamin and omega supplement plus Evening Primrose Oil, consider a Fertility Cleanse or Natural Therapies to Help Your Body Detox… and anything else that resonates with you right now. It can take a bit for the liver to completely detoxify from the hormones and show you you again.
Big virtual hug!
CelibateCrone
9:15 am on June 7, 2017
This article mainly addresses those who want their cycle back, and want to be sexually active. Sex to me is absolutely disgusting and I dont want periods ever again. Im almost 50, been celibate for a very long time, and want to come off the pill to have a purer body. Just wish someone would address the mood issue more, and the fertility issue less.
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
1:53 pm on June 7, 2017
Dear CelibateCrone,
I’m sorry you aren’t finding information that speaks exactly to your needs. Our site’s focus is fertility health, meaning the health of the female and male reproductive systems, and all systems of the body involved in hormonal balance so that if and when one wishes to conceive they are as healthy as possible. We do of course place focus on specific fertility health issues as well. What we share can be used by woman and men who are celibate, yet we can’t offer support for naturally stopping menstruation if that were even possible. Have you reached out to a naturopath, herbalist or health coach/personal counselor? It can be so helpful emotionally, for the mood, to talk through thoughts and feelings with someone.
My best as you continue to seek support!
El
3:49 pm on May 25, 2017
What is the best way to stop taking vitex after I have been using it after birth control to get my first period? I am trying to conceive and want to make sure it will not interfere with CM or ovulation.
Reply
Elizabeth Willett, MA, CH
2:10 pm on May 26, 2017
Dear El.
Vitex is not known to interfere with cervical mucus (CM) or ovulation. Vitex can be taken all cycle long without taking a break while actively trying to conceive. It is then best weaned off of in early pregnancy with the guidance of your healthcare provider or midwife. Perhaps our guide
Vitex… Fertility Super Herb? will clarify this and share even more about this amazing herb.
« Older Comments
POPULAR ARTICLES
The Natural Fertility Diet: How to Eat for Optimal Fertility
Prepare for Conception with Fertility Cleansing
Fertility Herbs Guide
Guide to Fertility Charting
Progesterone Fertility Guide
How to Do Self Fertility Massage™
See all articles
TOP PRODUCTS
Fertility Cleanse Kit
Fertilica Vitex
Fertilica Maca
OvaWise Egg Health Kit
Fertilica Royal Jelly
Self Fertility Massage
MOST SHARED
The Natural Fertility Diet
Progesterone Fertility Guide
How to Help Ovarian Cysts Naturally
Aromatherapy for Fertility
Castor Oil Therapy for Reproductive Health
How to Use Fertility Herbs To Enhance Your Fertility Naturally
Subscribe to The World's #1 Natural Fertility Website†
Subscribe Now
Proudly Supporting
Fertility Resources
Fertility Newsletter
Consultations
Videos
Fertility Shop
Ovulation Calculator
Fertility Products
Fertility Cleanse
Fertility Kits
Fertility Herbs
Fertility Supplements
Fertility Tools
Company Info
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter Signup
Privacy Policy
Success Stories
Disclaimer: The information on Natural Fertility Info.com is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended to treat, diagnose or prevent any disease. The information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. It is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of Hethir Rodriguez and her community. We encourage you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health care professional.
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product.
‡The World's #1 Natural Fertility Website claim is based upon Google search engine rankings.
Copyright ©2007-2018 The Natural Fertility Company. All Rights Reserved.
Share via
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Mix
Pinterest
Tumblr
Skype
Buffer
Pocket
VKontakte
Xing
Reddit
Flipboard
MySpace
Delicious
Amazon
Digg
Evernote
Blogger
LiveJournal
Baidu
NewsVine
Yummly
Yahoo
WhatsApp
Viber
SMS
Telegram
Facebook Messenger
Like
Email
Print
Copy Link
CopyCopied
Powered by Social Snap
1.1K Shares
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
More Networks