Canadian Online Prescription - Imitrex From Canadian On Line Pharmacies
Save Money On Imitrex With Your Canadian Online Prescription
Cheaper Imitrex (Sumatriptan) prescriptions are easier to find when you start your search with Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com.
This drug is an expensive Brand Name drug. However, ordering from a Canadian Pharmacy will save up to 50%, or more, off the price chaged by a United States Pharmacy.
Still can't find it? Search for it....
Custom Search
If you're seeking value, you owe it to yourself to shop a Canadian On Line Pharmacy. Getting the Canadian discount helps satisfy every cheap prescription drug seeker's desire for savings. Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com is your quick source to satisfy your craving for savings.
Imitrex is readily and easily available from all of our recommended Canadian Online Pharmacies. Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com has already located the best suppliers for you.
Our listings greatly simplify your research, shopping and price comparison. Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com has already researched the cheapest prescription drug suppliers for you.
Why is Imitrex so much cheaper in Canada?
First, Canadian prescription drug prices are negotiated by the Canadian government and its agency, Health Canada. Prescription prices are strictly regulated and kept at a more affordable level than in the United States. That's one important reason why Canadian Pharmacies have so much cheaper prescription drug prices.
Next, Drug companies are not allowed to market medications directly to the consumer in Canada. The resulting cost savings are passed on to the consumer.
Lastly, another reason for cheap Canadian online prescription drug prices, relative to the United States, is the relative strength of the US Dollar. US dollars purchase more Canadian prescription goods for less.
Price Guide -How Cheap Are Imitrex Prescriptions In Canada?
Listed below are the cheap prescription drug prices Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com has found for you for Imitrex. Also included are links to take you directly to the Canadian suppliers we located for you. Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com is proud to recommend the following Imitrex suppliers. Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com has scoured the Internet for the best Canadian Online Pharmacies. Please feel free to enjoy the fruits of our labor. We conducted an indepth survey of every Canadian Online Pharmacy we could find. We considered price first. Service and reputation were important considerations also. The clear winners are presented on this site, Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com. We will be adding more price comparisons for Imitrex (Sumatriptan) from more Canadian Online Pharmacies in the future weeks and months. For ordering instructions, please visit Our Pharmacy Sources Resource Page. Remember, the only good cheap prescription drug is a safe cheap prescription drug. In many cases, unless otherwise noted, the prescription drugs shipped from these Canadian online pharmacies will be the exact same drugs you would receive from your local pharmacy. Same Drug, Same Benefits, Huge Savings! We only recommend REAL Canadian Pharmacies. Every company mentioned on Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com either is an actual pharmacy located in Canada or represents an actual pharmacy located in Canada. No Exceptions!
CanadaPayLessRx.com is one of the top Canadian Pharmacies on the web today. CanadaPaylessRx.com is a Canadian based Internet pharmacy and a great source for cheap prescription drugs. The actual pharmacy, Drakes Pharmacy, is located in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
Imitrex Prices from CanadaPayLessRx.com
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 50mg $81.00 USD per 6 pills $13.500 per pill
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 100mg $88.56 USD per 6 pills $14.760 per pill
Imitrex Nasal Spray 20mg $32.39 USD per 2 doses $16.195 per pill
Imitrex Injection 6mg/0.5ml $85.32 USD per unit $42.660 per unit
Prices are in US Dollars
Shipping is $15.00 per order (not per prescription) at this trusted source. A great source for cheap prescription drugs.
For instructions for ordering cheap prescription drugs from CanadaPayLessRx.com, please visit Our Pharmacy Sources Resource Page.
Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
Your Canadian Prescription Pricing Resource.
copyright © 2003 Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
CanuckDrugs.com is another top Canadian Pharmacy, a trusted resource for cheap prescription drugs. Canuck Drugs is based out of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, license #32296, Manitoba Pharmaceutical Association.
Imitrex Prices from CanuckDrugs.com
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 50mg $142.68 USD per 12 pills $11.890 per pill
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 100mg $159.67 USD per 12 pills $13.306 per pill
Imitrex Nasal Spray 20mg $85.47 USD per 6 doses $14.245 per dose
Prices are in US Dollars
Shipping is $15.00 per order (not per prescription) at this trusted source. A great source for cheap prescription drugs.
For instructions for ordering cheap prescription drugs from CanuckDrugs.com, please visit Our Pharmacy Sources Resource Page.
Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
Your Canadian Prescription Pricing Resource.
copyright © 2003 Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
CanDrugStore.com is yet another top Canadian Pharmacy, a great source for cheap prescription drugs. Canada Online Healthlink, Inc. is based out of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Imitrex Prices from CanDrugStore.com
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 25mg $78.66 USD per 6 pills $13.110 per pill
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 50mg $157.87 USD per 12 pills $13.156 per pill
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 100mg $169.99 USD per 12 pills $14.166 per pill
Imitrex Nasal Spray 5mg $28.97 USD per 2 dosers $14.485 per doser
Imitrex Nasal Spray 20mg $32.72 USD per 2 dosers $16.360 per doser
Imitrex Injection 6mg/0.5ml $78.38 USD per 2 units $39.190 per unit
Prices are in US Dollars
Shipping is $13.99 per order (not per prescription) at this trusted source. A great source for cheap prescription drugs.
For instructions for ordering cheap prescription drugs from CanDrugstore.com, please visit Our Pharmacy Sources Resource Page.
Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
Your Canadian Prescription Pricing Resource.
copyright © 2003 Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
RiverCityMeds is one of the finest Onlne Canadian Pharmacies on the Internet, a fine source for cheap prescription drugs. The pharmacy is located in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada and is licensed by the Manitoba Pharmaceutical Association.
Imitrex Prices from RiverCityMeds
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 50mg $88.47 USD per 6 pills $14.745 per pill
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) 100mg $97.35 USD per 6 pills $16.225 per pill
Imitrex Nasal Spray 5mg $30.79 USD per 2 dosers $15.395 per doser
Imitrex Nasal Spray 20mg $34.64 USD per 2 dosers $17.320 per doser
Imitrex Injection 6mg/0.5ml $78.71 USD per 2 units $39.355 per unit
Prices are in US Dollars
Shipping is $12.00 per order, (not per prescription) at this trusted source. A great source for cheap prescription drugs.
For instructions for ordering cheap prescription drugs from RiverCityMeds.com, please visit Our Pharmacy Sources Resource Page.
Imitrex/Sumatriptan Drug Information
Imitrex
Generic Name: Sumatriptan (sue-muh-trIP-tan)
Drug Class: Antimigraine
IMPORTANT NOTE: THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS ONLY INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT, NOT SUBSTITUTE FOR, THE EXPERTISE AND JUDGMENT OF YOUR PHYSICIAN, PHARMACIST OR OTHER HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL FAMILIAR WITH YOUR CONDITION. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE CONStrUED TO STATE OR IMPLY THAT USE OF THE DRUG IS SAFE, APPROPRIATE, OR EFFECTIVE FOR YOUR CONDITION. ALWAYS CONSULT YOUR HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL BEFORE USING THIS OR ANY OTHER DRUG.
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Uses
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is used to treat migraine headaches.
How Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Works
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) works by targeting the nerves and blood vessels that cause migraine headaches.
How To Take Imitrex (Sumatriptan)
One dose of Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is taken by mouth at the first signs of a migraine attack. If you must take a second dose, take exactly as instructed by your doctor. Do NOT take more than 200mg in a 24 hour period. Swallow tablets whole with a full glass of water. Do not crush or chew tablets.
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Possible Side Effects
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is generally well-tolerated and side effects are usually mild. Common side effects include dizziness, drowsiness, nausea and fatigue. If you experience any other side effects, contact your healthcare professional.
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Warnings and Precautions
Do NOT take Imitrex (Sumatriptan) if you have certain types of heart disease, a history of stroke or transient ischemic attacks, peripheral vascular disease, Raynaud syndrome, uncontrolled blood pressure, or if you are allergic to this medication or related medications.
Do not take Imitrex (Sumatriptan) if you have risk factors for heart disease such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol or diabetes.
If you are smoke, you should be evaluated by your doctor before taking Imitrex (Sumatriptan).
Imitrex can cause dizziness or drowsiness Do not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until you know how Imitrex will affect you..
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Drug Interactions
Discuss with your doctor and pharmacist the prescription and nonprescription drugs you are taking, especially ergotamine- containing medication, all headache drugs and MAO inhibitors (such as furazolidone, linezolid, phenelzine, selegiline and tranylcypromine.
Missed Dose
If you miss a dose, take your next dose as soon as you remember. If it is time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule. Do not take double doses.
Storage
Keep your Imitrex (Sumatriptan) prescription in the container it came in, tightly closed. Keep out of reach of children. Store at room temperature, away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Throw out medication that is outdated or no longer needed.
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Pregnancy/Nursing Precautions
Safe use of Imitrex during pregnancy has not been established. Consult your doctor about risks versus benefits before taking Imitrex during pregnancy. It is unknown whether Imitrex is excreted into breast milk, so exercise caution concerning taking Imitrex while breast feeding. Discuss breastfeeding with your doctor.
Please tell us how helpful our Canadian Imitrex Price Comparison was to you and how we can improve.
Additional Imitrex Information
Click here for our Imitrex (Sumatriptan) drug monograph and information page (includes Imitrex side effects, interactions and supplement recommendations).
Before You Buy Imitrex Online...
Before you buy Imitrex Online, be sure to review our Canadian pharmacy recommendations.
What's new on Canadian-Online-Prescription-Guide.com?
Canada Abilify Price Comparison
Canada Accutane Price Comparison
Abilify Side Effects and Drug Monograph
Avonex Side Effects and Drug Monograph
Betaseron Side Effects and Drug Monograph
Copaxone Side Effects and Drug Monograph
Rapamune Side Effects and Drug Monograph
Rebif Side Effects and Drug Monograph
And more to come - stay tuned.
What is the orange text that's double-underlined?
For more information and special deals related to any of the issues on the page, simply place your cursor over the orange double-underlined links. All information supplied by Kontera.com.
Home
Navigation
News Blog
Search Engine
Site Search
Shopping
Top 200 Drugs
Canadian Prescription
Price Comparisons
Best Canadian
Pharmacies
Cholesterol Medications
General
Site Map
Contact
Copyright © Canadian Online Prescription Guide.com
Canadian Prescription Price Comparison -Made Simple!
My Business "Secret Weapon"
Canadian Online Prescription Guide Home Page
Site Map | Site Map-2 | Site Map-3 | Site Map-4 | Site Map-5 | Site Map-6 | Site Map-7 | Site Map-8
About | Contact | Search | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer
Return to top of Imitrex Price Comparison