Best superfoods to treat anemia and iron deficiency
Skip to content
Top Menu
April 20, 2019
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
We are accepting sponsored blog posts
Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
Medicinal plants and their uses
HOME
Indian medicinal plants
Home remedies
Yoga poses
Superfood
Health Tips & News
Flowers photos
Search for:
Main Menu
Home » Superfoods » Best superfoods to treat anemia and iron deficiency
Best superfoods to treat anemia and iron deficiency
May 11, 2017 December 20, 2017 - by Anoop Sharma - Leave a Comment
Twitter G + Facebook Reddit Linkedin Pinterest
Anemia treatment: Our metabolic activity depends on the movement of food and nutrients to various parts of the body in the blood. At time, the amount of healthy red blood cells decreases impairing the metabolic activities. This results in fatigue because the organs are not receiving enough nutrition. Here, we will talk about best superfoods to treat anemia and iron deficiency.
Anemia occurs due to blood loss, faulty production of blood cells, or destruction of the blood cells. Anaemia happens due to the deficiency of one of these – iron, Vitamin B6, folate, or Vitamin B12. To prevent this problem we should eat iron rich foods everyday in any amount and follow anemia diet.
Superfoods to combat anemia
Red meat
Red meats such as beef, pork, and mutton contain elevated levels of heme iron. This type of iron is easier to absorb than the plant iron that is non-heme iron. Liver has loads of vitamins and iron.
One serving of beef liver provides you with 600% of the daily need of vitamin B12 and iron. This is one of the best superfoods for anemia as it has many other nutrients needed by our body.
Eggs
Egg is rich in proteins, vitamins, and antioxidants. It is one of the top superfoods. You can eat eggs to replenish the vitamins lost during anaemic attack.
You absorb more iron when you have Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) along with the iron. One large egg gives about 7% of the daily requirement of iron. Have one glass of orange juice with the egg to help the body absorb the iron better.
Beetroot
You can have beetroot juice or cook it as a side dish and have it. This superfood is one of the best sources of iron. You can also make salads and eat it. Beets have folate, copper, manganese, and potassium.
They have good amounts of dietary fibre that augments the bowel movement and improves the metabolism. The choline present in the beetroot helps improve our memory, learning, muscle movement, and sleep.
Red meat, egg, beetroot, dates and honey
Whole grain bread
The non-heme iron in whole grain bread is much needed by our body. The bread also contains phytic acid that inhibits the absorption of the iron but because the bread undergoes a fermentation process, the amount of phytic acid gets reduced. Just one slice of bread gives you about 6% if the daily iron requirement.
Raisins and dates
People prefer these superfoods because they have no fats or cholesterol but are rich in fibre and iron. By taking 100 grams of seedless raisins you get 10% of the daily requirement of iron.
You also get 4 grams of fibre. Dates give you 5% iron and has 7 grams of fibre. The raisins contain resveratrol that has anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties though it inhibits the absorption of iron.
So, you might not get the benefit of the iron. In this way, dates pip the raisin as the better source of iron. Find benefits of dates for weight loss.
Honey
This is a superfood that has benefits for many functions of the body. A mere 100 grams of honey gives you 0.42 mg of iron. Honey also contains copper and magnesium that is useful for increasing the level of hemoglobin in the body. Have honey with lime juice to fight anemia effectively.
Seafood
Seafood has loads of nutrients such as vitamins, proteins, minerals while remaining low in sodium and cholesterol. They are a source of high-quality proteins and poly-unsaturated fats.
It has Vitamin A and iron beside the heart healthy protein. One must have seafood thrice a week only as this will restrict the mercury poisoning.
Pumpkin seeds
This popular snack item has plenty of iron. You get over 2 mg from just one cup of pumpkin seeds. One cup of kernels has 10 mg and this becomes an effortless way to add iron to any dish. Add a handful of seeds to boost your iron intake.
Beans
This is an iron-rich food with plenty of choice for your dinner plate. Choose from soy, pinto, kidney, and navy beans. They have useful content of proteins too.
However, they have phytic acid that inhibits the absorption of iron. So, the amount of iron you receive will be less compared to what is present.
Anemia foods to avoid
These foods below are rich in iron but have some inhibiting factor. This differs for each of the food items. Read why we need to avoid these nutritious food items.
Spinach
Spinach binds with iron and prevents the body from absorbing it. So, you should avoid this if you have anaemia. The spinach is low in calories and fat with 100 grams of the leaves having only 23 kcal.
It has copper that is needed to produce red blood cells. Potassium helps maintain the blood pressure and the heart rate. It has lesser amounts of omega-3 fatty acids.
Red Wine
The resveratrol in the red wine prevents iron absorption but is useful in fighting heart disease. Since white wine helps iron absorption, you can have it instead.
Back and green tea
Back and green teas chelate with iron and make them impossible to absorb by the body. However, this is only for the iron from plant sources and the teas do not have any effect on the iron one get from meat sources.
Coffee
This beverage prevents the absorption of iron from an iron-rich meal. So, do not have coffee one-hour before or after a meal.
Soy meals
Though soy product are rich in iron, the phytic acid in the soy interferes with the absorption of the iron. This is especially true of non-fermented soy.
Oatmeal
This is another superfood filled with high-quality nutrients. It has elevated levels of iron also but the downside is that it contains phytic acid that inhibits the absorption of iron.
One can use fortified oatmeal that has added iron and other supplements. If you have one cup of oatmeal, it will take care of 60% of your daily iron need. In the fortified oatmeal, you have B-complex vitamins also.
You have food items rich in iron but not beneficial for anaemic people. Watch the items and pick those that will help you get more iron out of your daily diet. Also, eat foods rich in Vitamin C as this helps the body absorb the iron and prevent anaemia.
References
https://www.thesuperfoods.net/
http://www.top10homeremedies.com/
http://www.myhealthtips.in/
Share On Social sites
Twitter G + Facebook Reddit Linkedin Pinterest
Subscribe to our mailing list to get amazing health tips
* indicates required
Email Address *
Related Posts:
13 food items for strengthening bones and energizing the body
Healthy food to increase platelet count in blood
Beetroot juice benefits, nutrition facts and side effects
Top 9 superfoods to improve eyesight and vision naturally
Healthy food for babies to gain weight and brain
15 amazing health benefits of dates, date nutrition and side effects
Post navigation
Previous Article Top 9 superfoods to improve eyesight and vision naturally
Next Article Top 10 superfoods for hair growth – Hair care tips
About Anoop Sharma
Anoop Sharma is an IT professional, freelance health writer and creator of www.medicinalplantsanduses.com. He is passionate about helping others learn about health issues and their natural remedies, yoga and healthy food.
View all posts by Anoop Sharma →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search Anything
Search for:
Subscribe to our mailing list to get amazing health tips
* indicates required
Email Address *
Popular
Comments
Tags
8 Effective home remedies for constipation in adults
February 16, 2017 November 1, 2018
Amla (Indian Gooseberry) plant medicinal uses, benefits and photos
January 30, 2017 July 8, 2017
Piles treatment at home, symptoms and causes of hemorrhoids
January 12, 2017 November 20, 2018
Aconitum ferox medicinal uses, images and side effects
January 2, 2017 December 1, 2017
11 amazing health benefits of ragi (finger millet) and side effects
January 6, 2018 April 17, 2019
ACHUT DIVEKAR - Andrographis paniculata (kalmegh) medicinal uses, side effects and photos
I found this site gives the scientific information.Non medical,literate persons also will understand it very...
Anoop Sharma - Abelmoschus ficulneus medicinal uses, information and images
Hello Sunil, Wild bhendi is not that helpful in curing the liver cancer but its...
Takale sunil laxman - Abelmoschus ficulneus medicinal uses, information and images
what is the use of wild bhendi in curing the liver cancer
Anoop Sharma - How flax seeds can help to control blood glucose level and manage diabetes?
You can find Flaxseeds in any supermarket or you can buy at amazon online. Here...
Robinson Kabanda - How flax seeds can help to control blood glucose level and manage diabetes?
Thanks a lot for de communication, and how one can get those seeds.
No tags created.
Latest Posts
10 Health Benefits of Turnip Juice, Nutritional Facts and Recipes
April 13, 2019 April 13, 2019
6 Juice recipes to help you fall asleep in under 20 minutes
April 11, 2019 April 11, 2019
Top 12 Home Remedies to Treat Hyperpigmentation on Skin
April 6, 2019 April 6, 2019
Why Green Tea Is Making You Fat … And Why You Should Be Drinking Red Tea Instead?
April 4, 2019
Chia Seeds: Nutrition facts, benefits and how to eat
March 29, 2019 April 2, 2019
Important Pages
Contact Us
Disclaimer and Affiliate Disclosure
Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
Categories
Homepage
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
We are accepting sponsored blog posts
Questions
What should you avoid doing at 6 weeks of pregnancy? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
How do I get pregnant quickly? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
Is giving birth in water less painful than giving birth in a hospital? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
If my wife goes into labor, what should I have packed and ready to go? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
What are early signs of pregnancy? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
How can I be sure if I am pregnant or not? 0 Answers | 0 Votes
I’m sleeping too much in my pregnancy, could that be harmful for the baby in any way? 0 Answers | 0 Votes
Latest Articles
10 Health Benefits of Turnip Juice, Nutritional Facts and Recipes
6 Juice recipes to help you fall asleep in under 20 minutes
Top 12 Home Remedies to Treat Hyperpigmentation on Skin
Why Green Tea Is Making You Fat … And Why You Should Be Drinking Red Tea Instead?
Chia Seeds: Nutrition facts, benefits and how to eat
Categories
Flowers photos (2)
Health Tips & News (73)
Home remedies (143)
Indian medicinal plants and rare medicinal herbs (158)
Superfoods (83)
Yoga exercises & meditation for all (45)
All the tips mentioned here are strictly informational. This site does not provide medical advice. Consult with your doctor or other health care provider before using any of these tips or treatments. Some of the links on this website are affiliate links, which means that I may earn a commission if you click on the link or make a purchase using the link. When you make a purchase, the price you pay will be the same whether you use the affiliate link or go directly to the vendor’s website using a non-affiliate link.
2017-18 © www.medicinalplantsanduses.com