Red Light Therapy | Light Therapy Review
Light Therapy Review
Red light therapy, light therapy products, light therapy reviews
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Home/
Archives /
Red Light Therapy
Archives For Red Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
Tanning beds are commonly associated with anti-aging and skin rejuvenation. However, when it comes to long term effects, tanning beds are not the way to go! While they may help clear some acne, promote energy, and makes you feel tan and young, they also promote skin cancer, wrinkles and fine lines. Red light therapy can help you with anti-aging and skin rejuvenation in a harm-free and natural way that actually reduces wrinkles and fine lines, treats acne, promotes energy and vibrant skin, and so much more! Plus, red light therapy can treat chronic pain and symptoms related to it! Red Light Therapy may be the new magical elixir…except this actually works.
Red Light Therapy For Cosmetic Purposes…
Red Light Therapy devices can be used to help slow down our natural cosmetic aging. Treatment can reduce fine lines and wrinkles while also tightening and firming the skin. Proper treatment can ridf age spots and hyper pigmentation, which usually occurs on the face, neck, and hands. There’s no need for face lifts when you can go the natural route. Red Light Therapy can also diminish blemishes and red spots, along with acne. Thought you could never get rid of those blackheads around your nose? Or those zits that keep showing up around your chin? How about those scars that acne left you with? Regularly scheduled treatment can help you say goodbye to those.
Red Light Therapy For Severe Conditions…
Medications always come with a large slew of side effects and everyone reacts differently. Red Light Therapy has proven to have few to no side affects while effectively treating serious conditions that people struggle with every day.
Proper light treatment can be used to treat skin problems you thought you would never get to say adios to. For example, burns and scars. Over time, Red Light Therapy can treat your skin and bring it back to its once undamaged self. It can also help with more serious conditions such as Rosacea, Eczema, Athlete’s Foot, Psoriasis, and more. If you are currently taking medication for any of these conditions or similar ones, it may be worth discussing Red Light Therapy with your doctor and finding a better option for your body.
Red Light Therapy For Pain…
It probably goes without asking, but who wants to take pain killers every day? They’re dangerous and make your stomach a wreck. An even better question: who can lead a happy life when living with chronic pain? The answer is no one.
Red Light Therapy is very commonly used for pain relief. It’s used in doctor’s offices all over. Athletes swear by it, chiropractor’s praise it, and it’ll be hard to find someone with a negative opinion on the matter. It’s gentle, drug-free, non-invasive, and 100% awesome. In most cases, it has proven extremely effective in reducing pains and aches. In some cases, Red Light Therapy has actually totally eliminated aches and pains.
Red Light Therapy can treat herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Forms Of Red Light Therapy…
Red Light Therapy can be used in a few different forms. The first decision that needs to be made is whether treatment is preferred at home or not. This answer can rely on the severity of the condition, budget, or what is being treated on the body.
If possible, it will be easier and more cost effective to perform light therapy treatments at home. Doctor’s office light therapy sessions can be expensive as well as difficult to work into a daily schedule. If Red Light Therapy treatments are done at home, you can do them at your own convenience, have a one-time cost, and be performed as many times as deemed necessary. There are hand held devices that are great for treating acne. There are also pads and wraps that are great for muscle and joint relief. If space isn’t an issue, there are large panels that can be used to treat a vast area on the body.
Tanning salons have recently undergone major criticism, making them frowned upon and practically irrelevant in the past few years. The salons have caught up with the times and many of them have been replacing the bulbs in their tanning beds with proper Red Light Therapy bulbs. If you are looking for an all over body treatment, this may be a good option for you. It won’t be very cost effective, but lying on a bed once a week for a set amount of time could help reduce body acne, cellulite, wrinkles, etc. It can also help with aching muscles, severe conditions such as Fibromyalgia, arthritis, and more.
How It Works…
According to JustLuxe, a lifestyle and wellness website…
“Red light easily penetrates the skin, boosts circulation and brings more blood and nutrients to the area. It also stimulates vital collagen and elastin production. Collagen helps plump the skin, while elastin firms the skin. The red light is energizing and repairing damaged cells, stimulating collagen and elastin and giving the skin back its youthful look. Home devices for skin rejuvenation typically use visible red light at a wavelength of 660nm – That penetrates tissue to a depth of about 8-10 mm – Making it more beneficial for treating problems close to the surface of the skin.” (JustLuxe.com)
As for chronic pain and muscle and joint relief, infrared light is always used. This form of light penetrates deeper into the body and repairs cell components. The light also increases the production of endorphins. This blocks the chemicals that transmit pain. If you’re using an at-home treatment, the infrared light typically penetrates the skin at 880 nanometers at a depth of 30-40 millimeters. Devices or beds in doctors’ offices will likely be stronger because they can be more controlled.
A Word From The Experts…
“Penetrating red light is possibly the fundamental anti-stress factor for all organisms. The chronic deficiency of such light is, I think, the best explanation for the deterioration which occurs with aging.” –Ray Peat
“The important biological effects of red light were known even back in the 19th century, yet very few of the biologists seem to know about those findings nowadays. The knowledge of the physiological effects of light is mainly limited to blue light’s effects on circadian rhythm, yet the importance of red and near-infrared light is probably a more important topic for the public health. The general therapeutic usefulness of red light reminds me of the therapeutic uses of thyroid hormone, the topic about which I’ve written before. This connection is actually quite logical, considering that thyroid hormone also increases Cox activity, by increasing the cardiolipin concentration in the mitochondria.[76,77] Time will tell whether various treatments based on red and near-infrared light will gain popularity in the near future. But they should, because the study results are thoroughly so positive.” -Vladmir Heiskanen
Posted on August 30, 2017	In Chronic Pain, Color Light Therapy, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Light Therapy, Pain, Red Light Therapy, Skin Rejuvenation, Skin Treatments
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
Acne is the one condition that almost anyone, regardless of age, gender, or race, can relate to. We’ve all dealt with it, but have we all conquered it? Light therapy is helping men and women all over the world do just that. Conquer it!
What Is Acne?
Pretty simple question, right? We all know what acne is. It’s those bright red zits that always showed up at the most inopportune times when you were 16. It’s those pestering black heads all across your nose that you can never seem to squeeze out. It’s those patches of red spots showing up on your cheeks when you feel far too old for it. We can all define acne, I’m sure. But why does our skin react the way it does?
Acne is an extremely common skin condition. According to HealthLine, a popular website dedicated to explaining medical conditions and the intricate details of them. In the Symptom Checker section of the website, HealthLine explains just what acne is.
“Acne occurs when the pores on your skin become blocked with oil, dead skin, or bacteria. Each pore on your skin is the opening to a follicle. The follicle is made up of a hair and a sebaceous (oil) gland. The oil gland releases sebum (oil), which travels up the hair, out of the pore, and onto your skin. The sebum keeps your skin lubricated and soft. If you develop acne, this may be because of one or more problems in this lubrication process. These possible causes include:
too much oil or sebum is being produced by the follicle
dead skin cells are accumulating in the pore
bacteria has built up in the pore
An overabundance of oil, a pore clogged by dead skin cells, and bacteria all contribute to the development of pimples. A zit appears when the bacteria grows in the clogged pore and the oil is unable to escape.”
(HealthLine.com)
If your skin is constantly being affected by your pores being plugged, you may be struggling with acne. And no, you’re not unusual if you’re 40 years old and have acne. Acne can affect people of all ages. From young children just entering puberty, to residents in nursing homes. Life isn’t like the movies and sometimes you just get acne.
What Causes Acne?
Acne can be caused by a wide array of things. Hormonal changes, such as puberty or pregnancy can cause temporary acne. Certain medications can increase the risk as well. Birth control pills and corticosteroids are just a couple examples. Diet also plays a major role in developing acne. Unhealthy diets, diets high in refined sugars, and diets high carbohydrates such as bread and chips make the body more susceptible.
People assume that they’re just not washing their face enough, or they need a new face cream, but most of the time that’s not the case. Hey, maybe washing your face did the trick. But for most people, that’s just not the case. Most people need some medical treatment without the crazy costs.
Light Therapy & Acne
Light therapy has been clinically proven by dermatologists for over a decade to treat mild to moderate acne. While treatments can be conducted in doctor’s and dermatologist’s offices, the newest invention is light therapy at home! At home light therapy devices are cost effective, easy to fit into your schedule, and let you be in control! Neutrogena has created a light therapy mask specifically designed to treat acne on men and women. The Neutrogena Light Mask is reinventing how we treat acne at home!
Light therapy kicks acne’s butt with the help of red and blue lights. The two major factors that contribute to acne are bacteria and inflammation. The blue light from the mask kills the acne causing bacteria while the red light penetrates deep into the skin to reduce inflammation. Pretty simple, right? Plus the treatments are convenient and easy! After washing your face, put the mask on, press the activate button, and sit and relax for 10 minutes. The mask should be added into your daily health regime and you’ll start to see results in as little as one week! As long as you stick to a schedule, the Neutrogena Light Mask can completely rejuvenate your skin! You’ll feel and look better than ever.
We love the Neutrogena Light Mask for more than just the fact that it treats acne. The mask comes with a long list of benefits…
100% UV free
Chemical free
FDA cleared
Cost effective
Convenient
Treatments don’t take long
Small and portable
Extremely effective
Creates healthy and youthful glow
A word from the users…
Neutrogena collected reviews from Light Mask users who shared their opinions on Twitter. They then decided to share the reviews on their website. We’ve decided to share some of them with you, just so you can listen to someone besides us, too!
“My skin felt soft, clearer, and less oily than usual. Lightweight and comfortable…very easy to use!”
-Kris1410
“This light therapy mask has been a major game changer in my skin care! It targets the issues within our skin that need more deep, gentle care.”
-LailaB
“My skin feels and looks amazing… I recommend this completely!”
-MarieAntoinette
“Got rid of troubled acne… more than happy with my results as my skin is now clearer than ever before.”
-fan.girl.much.
What do you think? Is it time to buy yourself a Neutrogena Light Mask? Remember, it’s never too late!
Posted on February 20, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Light Therapy, Products, Red Light Therapy
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
What It Is…
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the power of light. With patience, dedication, and a schedule that fits your lifestyle, light therapy can make you feel at the top of your game at all times!
Light therapy can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and so much more. In this article, we are going to discuss how light therapy treats physical conditions. You read that right – light can cure your acne!
How It Works…
Light therapy works to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin disorders, wrinkles, chronic pain, and more by penetrating into the skin and activating specific cellular activity depending on what your body needs and which devices are being used.
When it comes to light therapy in this regard, there are a lot more options and a lot more to explain! Each condition requires a specific device as well as a specific treatment plan. However, when done right, light therapy has the power to completely change the game. Light therapy is all natural, drug-free, harm-free, and cost effective, which can make treatment for all of the following conditions much easier to endure.
Acne:
Red light and blue light therapy are the most common forms of light used to treat acne. The blue light penetrates into the skin to kill acne-causing bacteria in the pores while red light reduces inflammation and reduces the production of oils. The combination of the two is undeniable and can kick acne’s butt in no time.
Skin-Rejuvenating:
When it comes to anti-aging, wrinkles, and sun damage, light therapy is the best. Red light therapy produces elastin and collagen which prevents skin aging. It also increases circulation by relaxing the blood vessels in the specific treatment areas which allows blood to flow more easily. This helps to prevent and diminish wrinkles because increased circulation encourages the production of new skin cells.
Pain:
Light therapy is often used to treat a wide array of pain, even chronic pain, all caused by different conditions. Red Light Therapy can treat muscle pain, joint pain, herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Red light therapy treats this long list because of its power to penetrate deep into the body and reach the tissue beneath the skin with the use of infrared lights, lamps, pads, beds, and more. Red infrared light has the power to activate cellular activity which can begin the body’s natural healing process as well as reduce inflammation which alone can cause great pain.
Wound Healing:
Did you know that red light can heal a wound 200% faster than any other treatment plan? Red and/or infrared red light therapy can close and treat a wound, even in diabetics, which is far from easy. There are quite a few ways that light therapy works to treat wounds:
Increases circulation and the formation of new capillaries. Both of these activities allow the wounded area to receive more of the oxygen and nutrients it needs to heal.
Increases phagocytosis which is the cleanup of dead or damaged cells which helps control infections.
Increases lymph system activity which ensures efficient cleansing and detoxification of wounds without taking over the lymph system.
Stimulates production of fibroblasts which synthesize collagen, elastin, and proteoglycans in final stages of healing process.
Stimulates production of collagen which is key for closing a wound.
Stimulates tissue granulation which forms new connective tissue and small bloods vessels on the surfaces of a wound during healing.
Causes the release of ATP or raw cellular energy. Helps provide energy to the damaged and surrounding cells so they can do what they are meant to do and heal themselves.
Best Brands for Physical Health Light Therapy…
ReVive Light Therapy
Project E Beauty
Tendilite
Light Relief
DPL Flex
Philips
Beaurer North America
Yok Pollar
Posted on February 19, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Wound Healing
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Light therapy is a form of all natural therapy that is changing lives around the world. During the basic and most common form of light therapy, patients sit near a special lamp that emits bright light for a set amount of time on a daily schedule. This artificial lighting is meant to mimic natural outdoor light with the goal of affecting the body’s internal clock. Our internal clocks, or circadian rhythms, regulate the way our brains react to energy during the daytime, sleep during the nighttime, and when our bodies become hungry. Melatonin, a sleep hormone, is naturally released in our brains at night when our internal clock is off. Serotonin, our mood altering hormone that provides us with energy, is supposed to be consistently being released throughout the day, while our internal clock is on and active. However, due to factors such as work schedules, seasonal changes, mental disorders, sleeping problems, and more, it is very easy for our circadian rhythms to be thrown off. This is where light therapy saves us!
Since our circadian rhythms are greatly influenced by natural every day environmental factors such as the sunrise and sunset, light therapy is a wonderful way to make sure our bodies are releasing melatonin and serotonin at the correct times. Doing so can treat mental disorders such as depression and seasonal affective disorder, increase energy and happiness levels, improve skin conditions, and so much more!
As with any medical practice, there is a long list of myths that follow light therapy around. We’re here to share some myths with you and provide you with the facts. Let’s get down to it.
Myth #1: All Light Therapy Is The Same
While we’ve been noting light therapy for mental conditions in this article, there are many different forms of light therapy. Aside from standard bright light treatments, there are also red, blue, and green light therapy devices. These devices can treat skin conditions such as psoriasis and acne. They are also wildly successful at rejuvenating the skin, reducing wrinkles and fine lines, and making you feel like your sixteen year old self again! Red light is also used for muscle and joint pain, wound healing, chronic pain, and more. Don’t stop at bright light, all of the colors are wonderful!
Myth #2: Light Therapy Is Only Used For Depression
It’s true, light therapy is most commonly used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and other forms of depression. However, light therapy has endless potential for our mental and emotional well being. It can also treat sleep disorders, dementia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. Assuming that light therapy is only good for one thing is just silly!
Myth #3: So I Just Stare Into A Light Bulb For Hours?
Wrong! It’s easy to assume that light therapy treatments consist of sitting in front of light bulbs and waiting for the magic to happen. But in actuality, treatment sessions typically don’t last longer than 30 minutes a day. The sessions are easy to fit into your daily routine and most devices allow you to do other activities to pass the time or multitask. Try reading a book, knitting, or eating a meal while sitting in front of your light therapy device!
Also, you wouldn’t stare into the light – so take note of that. A light therapy device usually emits light that is 100 times brighter than most indoor lighting, since the treatments are intense and succinct, so you definitely don’t want to be staring into that bulb!
Myth #4: There Are No Side Effects!
It’s always important to talk with a doctor before starting any new medical treatment. Just because light is natural and we can’t necessarily feel treatment sessions when they’re occurring doesn’t mean that they are 100% harmless. Light therapy can have a negative effect on those with sensitive skin and eyes. It can also cause eye straining, headaches, nausea, or irritability. Most of these side effects are mild and short term, however it is still important to monitor the usage of your light therapy device and consider any personal conditions –such as bipolar disorder or a severe skin condition — before beginning treatment – for example
It’s easy to make assumptions about things that are not normal or common. Light therapy is a world changing treatment that deserves all of the praise and credit you can give it! Make no assumptions about light therapy, don’t believe the myths, and know your facts. If you follow these words, you will end up thanking us! We promise.
Posted on February 17, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Color Light Therapy, Depression, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light therapy is breaking ground all across the world and yet most people go through their every day lives having no idea what it is and how much potential it holds. Light therapy is going to blow your mind!
None of us are perfect, and honestly, more people than you would think struggle with serious disorders that affect their every day lives. Light therapy has been proven effective in a wide array of scenarios. A light box imitates outdoor light, which boosts energy levels and improves health, as well as multiple other perks.The process of using a light box and other forms of the therapy have been successfully treating all sorts of disorders. These conditions range from Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), to depression, to hair loss, to acne that you thought you would never get rid of, to muscle pain, and a little bit of every in between.
Light therapy is powerful, easy to use, cost effective, all natural, harm free, and ready for you whenever you’re ready. Now lets learn what everyone needs to know about light therapy…
It Can Treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and Depression:
If you struggle with any form of depression, light therapy may be a cure for your struggles. Seasonal Affective Disorder or SAD is a form of depression that usually strikes annually during fall and winter. For some people, symptoms for SAD occur during summer and spring, but it is rare. Symptoms for the disorder include irritability, trouble getting along with others, weight gain and major appetite changes, low energy levels, extreme sensitivity to rejection, oversleeping, and an achey, heavy feeling throughout the limbs.
For people with depression, aside from Seasonal Affective Disorder, light therapy can help by simply using a light box to bring their energy levels back to normal. Depression is usually apparent in conjunction with lack of sleep and Circadian Rhythm Disorders. Circadian Rhythm Disorders are changes in a person’s normal rhythm of their 24 hours cycles. When the patterns of the brain wave activity drastically change due to work, pregnancy, medications, time zone changes, routine swaps, and medical issues such as Alzheimer’s, it is hard for the brain to keep up. Making it is easy for depression to creep in. Light therapy can help bring your brain and energy levels back to a point that is difficult to reach without any assistance.
It Can Treat Other Mental Disorders Such As Bipolar Disorder:
More than three million people in the United States are diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder, also referred to as Manic Depression each year. The disorder brings about episodes of mood swings ranging from depressive lows to manic highs. Most people struggling with the disorder undergo periods of elevated moods, either high or low, and increased irritability. A reduced need for sleep, depression symptoms, and loss of interest in passions are all common occurrences.
Unfortunately, Bipolar Disorder cannot be cured, but light therapy has been proven to show signs of improvement. Light therapy helps keep the biological clock on time in people with Bipolar Disorder and other mental illnesses. This clock can be easily agitated and can throw off sleep and wake cycles which are known to stir up symptoms such as mania and depression. Using light therapy aids in regulating biological patterns, in turn reducing mood swings and major brain wave changes.
People who struggle with SAD, depression, and Bipolar Disorder, often face other mental disorders such as Bulimia and Anorexia. The therapy indirectly improves mood, thus reducing the need to binge or purge.
It Can Treat Insomnia:
There are more than three million US cases of Insomnia per year. Insomnia can usually be self-diagnosed and the symptoms include difficulty falling asleep and remaining asleep. People who struggle with Insomnia are often overly tired, lack concentration, show signs of depression, are extremely irritable, and suffer from headaches.
Similar to Bipolar Disorder, insomnia doesn’t have a direct cure. However, light therapy shows major signs of improvement in people and for people who struggle with moderate to mild insomnia, light therapy can most certainly be the cure. The internal clock in people with insomnia is often off which causes them to struggle when it comes to sleep. By managing when the brain releases melatonin and seratonin, insomnia symptoms can be alleviated and the brain’s internal clock can get itself back on track.
It Can Cure Psoriasis and Other Skin Conditions:
Light therapy is extremely effective for skin conditions such as Psoriasis, Vitiligo, Scleroderma, and many other disorders. The process works by decreasing cell growth and inflammation that create skin issues. Psoriasis is a common skin problem that has seen results when treated with light therapy processes. Psoriasis occurs when skin cells build up and form itchy and scaly patches on your body. Using a light box in a scenario such as this would slow down your cell growth and bring this painful condition to a halt. Do you struggle with any of these skin conditions? Light therapy may be the skin treatment you’ve been looking for.
It Can Cure Chronic Pain:
Red light therapy is used every day to treat chronic pain. This form of therapy became popular when professional athletes began using it for pain relief as well as wound healing.
This most likely goes without saying, but no one wants to take pain killers every day. They’re dangerous, your body becomes overly reliant, and they make your stomach a wreck. An even better statement: it’s pretty difficult to lead a happy life when living with chronic pain. No worries. The cure is here.
Red light therapy is very commonly used for pain relief. It’s used in doctor’s offices all over, athlete’s swear by it, Chiropractor’s praise it, and it’ll be hard to find someone with a negative opinion on the matter. It’s gentle, drug-free, non-invasive, and 100% awesome. In most cases, it has proven extremely effective in reducing pains and aches. In some cases, red light therapy has actually totally eliminated aches and pains. Red light therapy can treat herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
It Can Treat Hair Loss:
When it comes to hair regrowth, red light therapy is making our jaws drop. Low Level Light Therapy or Low Light Laser Therapy (LLLT), are what specialists are using and it is directly creating hair regrowth for people who struggle with male pattern baldness, hair loss due to age, stress, and more.
These treatment sessions use red and near infrared light therapy. The treatment does not need to be in the form of a laser to work, but some people prefer it. Wavelengths in the range of 630 to 670 nanometers are most commonly used for this form of Light Therapy. The treatment works because visible red light is capable of being absorbed by the molecules in our hair follicles. When absorbed, this can stimulate growth of the hair thanks to a natural biological reaction. This only works if the light is absorbed, which is why lasers are usually preferred.
It Can Treat Acne, Scars, Wrinkles, and Blemishes:
Most people have struggled or will struggle with those not so pretty blemishes on our cheeks, our noses, our foreheads, our backs, and other unfortunate places. Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follicles plug with oil and dead skin cells. The bothersome condition results in pimples, blackheads, and bumps. It’s honestly a pretty difficult condition to conquer. Some people can lay off the greasy potato chips, change their pillow cases every single morning, and still end up with zits on their foreheads. Some people can apply all of the expensive creams in the world, try every homeopathic treatment, read every Pinterest article about how to get rid of their zits, and they will still struggle. Some people deal with terrible side affects with acne medications, or they just can’t afford to keep getting it refilled! This is where light therapy can kick acne right out of your life.
Exposing your skin to different forms of Light Therapy can help kill the bacteria in and on your skin that causes redness and swelling from acne. Using a form of Light Therapy will not be a quick kill for your zits. It will not just zap them away like a laser does. Instead, the treatment kills the bacteria that causes acne and reduces the amount of oil-producing glands on your skin. It givesyour skin a chance to recover by itself, without harming or damaging it for the long run. Depending on what is needed and wanted, the treatment will either use red light, blue light, or a combination of the two.
Light therapy also works wonders by treating scars, reducing fine lines and wrinkles, and overall rejuvenating your skin to bring back youth and a healthy glow. All of these conditions can be cured with one light therapy device, but depending on your specific conditions and the severity of them, it’s best to do research and speak to a doctor before buying or using a device.
We barely cracked the surface here and we’re excited just talking about light therapy! Light therapy is still new. We learn more every day, and the possibilties are endless. It’s time to get on board!
Posted on November 22, 2016	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Depression, Hair Loss, Insomnia, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Skin Treatments
Red Light Therapy For Skin
What Is Red Light Therapy?
Red light therapy is a form of light that that uses red LED infrared lighting and bulbs to treat a wide array of conditions and disorders.
Red Light Therapy is commonly associated with anti-aging. Skin Rejuvination, to be exact. And while this is true, Red Light Therapy can works wonders in that department, the treatment has a long list of benefits. Ranging from acne to chronic back pain, Red Light Therapy may be the new magical elixir…except this actually works.
Uses For Red Light Therapy:
Wrinkles
Skin rejuvenation
Age spots
Acne
Sun damage
Chronic pain
Joint pain
Muscle pain
Bites
Bruises
Minor burns
Collagen production
Cuts
Scrapes
Dry skin
First aid
Hair loss
Psoriasis
Red marks from acne
Stretch marks
Rosacea
Flushing
Scars
Wound care
Uneven skintone
Red Light Therapy For Skin…
Red Light Therapy devices can be used to help slow down our natural cosmetic aging. Treatment can reduce fine lines and wrinkles while also tightening and firming the skin. Proper treatment can rid of age spots and hyper pigmentation, which usually occurs on the face, neck, and hands. There’s no need for face lifts when you can go the natural route. Red Light Therapy can also diminish blemishes and red spots, along with acne. Thought you could never get rid of those blackheads around your nose? Or those zits that keep showing up around your chin? How about those scars that acne left you with? Regularly scheduled treatment can help you say goodbye to those.
How Does It Work?
Red light therapy uses infrared light which delivers a burst of energy to the body’s tissues and triggers a response for the body to heal itself from the inside. Depending on the affected area and what your body needs, the burst of energy will trigger different responses from your body and kickstart the necessary healing process. This form of light therapy is much better than laser technology because it doesn’t cut the body’s tissues! It’s also much safer and effective than the sun’s rays because it has no harmful UV components. It’s a win win.
Red light therapy effectively treats the skin in a few different forms. When it comes to anti-aging, wrinkles, and sun damage, the treatment is wonderful. Red light therapy produces elastin and collagen which prevents skin aging. It also increases circulation by relaxing the blood vessels in the specific treatment areas which allows blood to flow more easily. This helps to prevent and diminish wrinkles because increased circulation encourages the production of new skin cells. Can you believe that? There’s actually a safe and effective way to say goodbye to wrinkles.
As for treating and getting rid of acne, red light therapy is an extremely popular form of treatment. Facing Acne, a website dedicated to helping people get the clear skin they desire, wrote a wonderful article explaining light therapy and it’s effects on acne. They wrote a brief summary on how red light therapy can treat acne. The website explains,
“Red light reaches deep into the skin and activates hemoglobin. Red light treatment cuts off just enough of the blood supply of oil-producing sebaceous glands that pores don’t get quite as oily. Blue light penetrates pores and kills acne bacteria—but not all the pore’s acne bacteria. There are always some acne bacteria in the sebaceous gland that can’t be reached by blue light.” (FacingAcne.com)
Commitment…
It’s important to understand that any form of therapy requires commitment. In order to receive the best possible results from red light therapy, patients must stick to a set schedule, even if they are conducting the therapy by themselves in their own home.
Are You Sold?
There are many different devices used for red light therapy treatments. From wands, lamps, bulbs, beds, pads, and masks, there is surely a device for everyone in need. As discussed, the lights penetrate into the skin, boosting the cellular process that your body is in need of. However, you need the right device in order to begin your healing. Red light therapy uses wavelengths of light between about 620 nanometers and 700 nanometers. At home devices are typically between 630 to 660 nanometers.
Treatment sessions can be done at home or in a doctor’s office. Treatment sessions range depending on the devices being used. Handheld wands and masks are usually held to the skin from as little as 30 seconds to 15 minutes. Tanning style beds are typically used between 10 to 30 minutes. Bulbs that are inserted into lamps can be stood in front of, set up above your place of need, etc., and are typically used for the same amount of time as the bed.
LED Light Therapy Skin System For Beautiful Skin
Amazon for $99.99
The LED Light Therapy Skin System for Beautiful Skin uses multiple forms of light therapy to target skin conditions. As you’ll see, this device is at a slightly higher price point. The reason being, you get more for your buck. This skin care package includes three detachable light heads which can be changed according to what your skin requires. The device is hand held, cordless when in use and charges with the included cord. The device is aimed to give you a 30 minute treatment per charge and has a built in timer to let you know when your treatments, which are typically 10 minutes long, are finished. The LED Light Therapy Skin Care System has wonderful reviews for not only treating acne. It can also tighten the skin on your face and body and reduce fine lines and wrinkles.
Posted on August 5, 2016	In Acne, Products, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments
Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, & Mice
What Is Chronic Pain?
Chronic pain is classified as persistent pain that can last for weeks to years. It’s usually self diagnosable and there is no known cure quite yet, although there are forms of treatment that can help. There are more than 3 million U.S. cases each year, making this a common condition.
Chronic pain is more than physical. It’s also mental and it can quickly take over your life. Constant physical pain can decrease energy and mood levels, leaving victims feeling low and even depressed. The most common form of treatment for chronic pain is medication. Acupuncture, surgery, electrical stimulation, and cognitive behavioral therapy are also forms of treatment. But with medication being the most common treatment for chronic pain, it’s obvious that another option needs to be found. Medicine is not a permanent fix and while it can help you mentally because you are feeling less pain, it’s also harmful in the sense that it is addictive. Solving one mental issue by adding another, addiction, is not a proactive form of treatment. This is why we are going to discuss light therapy.
The Symptoms…
The symptoms for chronic pain do not take rocket science to understand. Acute pain is a painful sensation that typically lets us know of an injury, or a bigger problem. Chronic pain, however, lasts for far too long. If the pain in the patient’s body lasts for more than 12 weeks, it is classified as chronic pain. The primary symptom of chronic pain is constant and persistent pain.
According to WebMD, a credible website dedicated to all things medical, chronic pain has other symptoms, aside from just pain. These symptoms are thought to arise due to the link between the mental state and the physical state during chronic pain. WebMD writes:
The symptoms of chronic pain include:
Mild to severe pain that does not go away
Pain that may be described as shooting, burning, aching, or electrical
Feeling of discomfort, soreness, tightness, or stiffness
Pain is not a symptom that exists alone. Other problems associated with pain can include:
Fatigue
Sleeplessness
Withdrawal from activity and increased need to rest
Weakened immune system
Changes in mood including hopelessness, fear, depression, irritability, anxiety, and stress
Disability
(WebMD.com)
Common pain areas are in the back, joints, mouth, face, muscles, bones, and neck. The sensory perception of this pain can be classified as pins and needles as well as sensitivity to pain. There are many different types of pain and these can be caused by psychological factors. Each patient has a unique form of chronic pain.
The Cause…
It is common for chronic pain to arise due to an injury. For example a back sprain or a car accident. It can also come from illness. And for others, there is no clear cut cause. This might be the most difficult “cause” to deal with.
No matter what caused the chronic pain to arise, it remains a part of the patient’s body due to either inflammation or dysfunctional nerves. The goal of treatment for chronic pain is to reduce the pain and improve functions so that the patient can live a normal life again.
Covering up the pain with medications (opiates) or using more holistic forms of treatment and not seeing results can ultimately make the situation worse. This is why we are promoting light therapy. This is why everyone should be pushing for light therapy!
Light Therapy & Chronic Pain
Red light therapy has been used to treat pain for awhile now. It can relieve sore muscles, heal wounds, relieve joint pain, and so much more. Infrared red light therapy is changing people’s lives every day. And while most red light therapy products are being advertised for treating chronic pain, the research needs to continue. While hand held devices from Amazon may work for some people, each chronic pain case is different. Some are far more intense than others. This is why light therapy is constantly being experimented with in regards to pain. If a cure for chronic pain is on the horizon, we cannot stop searching.
This is why researchers at the Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital of McGill University are taking their experiments so seriously. These researchers have been able to see pain relief in mice using optogenics, a new, extremely specific, non-invasive form of light therapy. During optogenics, a substance is injected into mice that induce them into a certain condition. For this experiment, they were subjected to chronic pain. The goal of optogenics is to treat the mice of this condition.
Tech Times has an April 2016 article about this light therapy experiment. The author, Catherine Cabral-Isabedra, explains:
“Once neurons were subjected to yellow light, the pain response to light and heat was inhibited. The researchers said that pain relief was seen to last for more than 24 hours in mice with 1 hour of inhibition.
Once neurons were subjected to yellow light, the pain response to light and heat was inhibited. The researchers said that pain relief was seen to last for more than 24 hours in mice with 1 hour of inhibition.
Senior author and professor of neurology and neurosurgery at McGill University Philippe Seguela explained that the opsins, which respond to light, can only be expressed if Cre recombinase is present.
“When we transfer these to neurons, we can control their responses simply by illuminating the skin with innocuous yellow light,” said Seguela.
“Opsins can be packaged in viruses and viral expression can be genetically restricted to specific neuronal populations allowing a higher cellular selectivity,” says Seguela. “This will allow chronic pain patients to benefit from a non-invasive and highly precise analgesic method to modulate their pain.”
The study aims to understand the physiology of chronic pain and provide groundwork for alternative pain management.”
(techtimes.com)
Why This Is So Important…
Given that medications, mainly opiates, are the main form of treatment for chronic pain, this recent discovery is groundbreaking. President Barack Obama has recently proposed new rules to manage the growing opioid use in our country. In United States alone, more than 2 million people are dependent upon painkillers. When painkillers are prescribed for chronic pain, the individuals suffering from pain develop a tolerance to the drug. Eventually they take more, and unfortunately for some, they take far too much and end up overdosing. Pain killers kill more than 40 people each day in the U.S. If chronic pain can be one less condition that is prescribed pain killers, we might be able to see an end in sight for this pain killer cemetery.
Optogenics offers great hope as an alternative to traditional painkilling medications. Because of it’s high temporal and spatial control on neuron activity, light therapy might actually win this battle.
Are You Sold?
Tendilite World’s Top Red LED Light Therapy Joint Pain Relief
Amazon for $194.93 (on sale!)
Optogenics light therapy is currently not being used on humans, but that doesn’t mean you can’t join the game. Red light therapy is being proven effective for treating a wide array of conditions, including pain. For some individuals, red light therapy has been successful in treating chronic pain, depending on what has caused the condition.
The Tendilite Joint Pain Home Therapy treatment package is FDA cleared, drug free and harm free. It is also highly reviewed and a fair price for the results it offers. The treatment sessions are fast and pain free. Patients simply hold, or have someone else hold, a small red light therapy device up to where the pain is for up to one minute at a time. The light should be shined directly at the joint or disc that is causing pain.
This Tendilite device can reduce pain, promote muscle relaxation, increase blood circulation, reduce swelling and stiffness and activate necessary collagen that is used to rebuild connective tissue.
This device is a small step towards big results. While it may not be what was used in the experiments in Montreal, it is still highly effective for lower grade pain. Give it a shot! And keep your eyes peeled for new light therapy research!
Save
Save
Posted on June 27, 2016	In Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Red Light Therapy
Light Therapy & The Earth
What Is Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using different forms of light to help reduce and/or treat a wide array of conditions and disorders. Dermatologists, doctors, and psychiatrists have been using light therapy on their patients for some time. And now, thanks to the convenience of new light therapy products, you can also use the treatment at home. Light therapy has been safely and effectively changing the medical world one patient at a time.
How It Works…
Depending on the condition and the patient’s state of health, light therapy treatments can vary. For skin conditions and disorders, red, blue, and green light therapy devices are used. The treatments can be applied in many different forms including body wraps, handheld wands, tanning style beds, and masks. These methods are used for chronic pain, acne, wrinkles, cellulite, rosacea, psoriasis, and more. For mental conditions, such as seasonal affective disorder or depression, light therapy lamps and boxes are typically recommended. The high powered LED lights mimic outdoor sunlight to boost energy levels, maintain regular sleep cycles, treat depression, and more. There are also more extensive and intense products being used in doctors’ offices. For example, intravenous light therapy can be used post surgery to reduce inflammation and swelling. And light that is shown on the skin after certain ointments are applied to affected areas can treat many forms of skin cancer.
All of these discoveries and new insights into the world of medicine are groundbreaking and even life changing for some patients. The best part of it all, there’s still so much to learn! We have barely begun to crack the surface of what light therapy can do for us.
Saving The Earth…
Just as light therapy is changing the medical field, it’s also saving the earth. Saving lives and saving the earth! Does it get any better than that?
Light Therapy Options (LTO) is a Connecticut-based company that provides light therapy products to treat and heal a wide array of skin conditions and disorders. This company stands out from the rest due to it’s pride in being eco-friendly.
Light Therapy Options’ products are high powered LED lights that are meant to be applied to affected areas of the skin in specific, accurate wavelengths. The devices themselves aren’t necessarily what makes this company stand out from the pack. There are many similar products on the market that can effectively treat and heal light therapy relying conditions. However, most of the products on the market are made of non-recyclable plastics and have a limited lifespan, along with some other features that can harm our environment.
How It Works…
Light Therapy Options stands out from the crowd for many reasons. The company aims to be as environmentally friendly as possible which is why they created these features for their products…
High Power LED: These use less electricity and reduce treatment times. Other treatments are between 10 and 30 minutes. LTO treatments are between 30 seconds and 3 minutes.
No Replacement Parts: The devices are extremely durable and have been designed to hold up through home use, travel, spa use, and more. They have a 50,000 hour lifespan. To simplify, if you use a device for 3 minutes at a time, it will last for many lifetimes.
Non-Disposable: Because of the insanely long lifespan, these products are non-disposable. LTO claims that you will never need to buy a new device.
Recyclable: Even though these products are made to be non-disposable, accidents can happen or you could run out of uses for the products. In this scenario, the products are recyclable.
No Toxic Gases: Many compact fluorescent bulbs and other light products contain toxic gases. LTO products do not.
Not Battery Operated: LTO devices are powered through a wall socket. No need to throw out batteries!
Combined Product Uses: LTO makes some devices that work for many different conditions so you to only have to purchase one device, instead of many different ones for all of your conditions.
Why Is This So Important?
It seems that many of us get so caught up in what the earth can do for us, that we forget what we can do for the earth. We only get one earth and we need to treat it like that is the case. Every step we take towards ensuring an environmentally friendly world is a step in the right direction. While Light Therapy Options is the only company currently making eco-friendly light therapy products at such a high level, it’s important to see what we can strive for. If one company can do this, why can’t they all? If you are considering buying a light therapy product, make sure you check and see if Light Therapy Options has what you are looking for!
Are You Sold?
Light Therapy Options has more than 10 products on their site. We have chosen to share a couple of those devices with you to explain in further detail just how wonderful we think this company is!
The Peak 415 Blue Light HP LED Powerhead
$259.00 (on sale!)
LightTherapyOptions.com
The Peak 415 is one of the most popular products on the website. It is available in either 120 volt or 220 volt and includes standard safety goggles to protect your eyes. Different goggle options are available to purchase as well for just a few dollars. The Peak 415 is made with a high power LED power head that is used with your own fixture (stand). It contains 48 HP LED chips and has a peak wavelength of 415 nanometers. It can be used for both personal and professional use and has been rated highly effective for treating acne. The website claims that the 415 nanometer wavelength has been identified as the most effective wavelength against acne causing bacteria without entering the UV range. It is the strongest acne light in their product line!
The Genesis DH Red Light / Near Infrared HP LED Powerhead
$299.00 (on sale!)
LightTherapyOptions.com
The Genesis DH is made with a high power LED head with 120 volt power and includes standard safety goggles. It has a standard sized bulb which means that you can use it with any open faced fixture you choose. The Genesis DH is specifically designed for pain relief, wound care, anti-aging, and much more. The device combines red and near infrared light therapy into one small unit which provides you with the benefits of both light therapy forms for every one of your treatment sessions. The website states that it is most commonly used as a handheld device for pain relief but it has also been proven effective while being used hands free for collagen production, anti-aging, and more. Why not give the 90 day trial period and lifetime warranty a try?
Save
Save
Posted on June 25, 2016	In Acne, Light Therapy, Pain, Products, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Uncategorized
Light Therapy & Diabetic Ulcers
What Are Diabetic Ulcers?
Diabetic Ulcers, or Diabetic Foot Ulcers occur for a variety of reasons. They occur in about 15% of people who suffer from diabetes These ulcers are open sores or wounds and are commonly located on the bottom of the foot. 6% of people who suffer from diabetic foot ulcers are hospitalized due to infection or other ulcer-related complications.
According to the American Pediatric Medical Association, “Diabetes is the leading cause of non-traumatic lower extremity amputations in the United States, and approximately 14-24 percent of patients with diabetes who develop a foot ulcer will require an amputation. Foot ulceration precedes 85 percent of diabetes-related amputations.” (apma.org)
These are some pretty high numbers and if there is a way to decrease these statistics, life will be easier for those suffering from diabetes.
The Cause…
Persons suffering from diabetes can develop a foot ulcer. There are a few factors that make diabetes patients more prone to foot ulcers. These are…
Native Americans, African Americans, Hispanics, older men
People who use insulin
People with diabetes related kidney, eye, and heart diseases.
People who are overweight
People who use tobacco and alcohol
Ulcers can form on the foot due to…
Lack of feeling in the foot
Poor circulation
Foot deformities
Irritation (friction or pressure)
Trauma
Duration of diabetes
Neuropathy (reduced or inability to feel pain in feet due to nerve damage from elevated glucose levels)
Vascular disease (reduces body’s ability to heal and lowers immune system)
The Symptoms…
With diabetic foot ulcers, t pain is not a symptom. Most people who develop an ulcer have lost the ability to feel pain, making pain an uncommon symptom. Some common symptoms are…
Drainage in socks
Redness
Swelling
Odor
Normal Treatment…
The main goal in ulcer treatment is to help the ulcer heal as quickly as possible. The faster the wound heals, the less time there is for infection to occur. At this time, most people are using traditional forms of treatment for ulcers.
If an ulcer is infected the traditional form for treatment is to:
Take pressure off the wound
Remove dead skin
Apply medications
Manage blood glucose and other health problems
If an ulcer has not become infected, the traditional form for treatment is to:
Keep blood glucose levels stable
Keep ulcer clean
Keep ulcer bandaged
Clean wound daily
Use ulcer bandage or dressing
Avoid walking without shoes
Many patients are required to wear special footwear, braces, castings, use wheelchairs, or use crutches. While all of these options discussed above help reduce pressure and irritation on the ulcer and can speed up the healing process, they are far from fun and can make continuing on with your every day life very difficult. Living with diabetes is difficult enough without having to constantly keep an eye on your foot. This is where light therapy is changing the game for ulcer victims.
Light Therapy & Traditional Ulcer Treatments…
Phototherapy, or light therapy, is being proven to speed up the healing process for diabetic foot ulcers. When light therapy is combined with some of the simple forms of treatment for ulcers, such as keeping it clean, a wound can be healed rather quickly. While light therapy has been proven effective at treating ulcers with no other help from traditional forms of treatment, the process will be sped up and more effective when combined with some traditional medical treatment.
How It Works…
Light therapy is a non-invasive form of treatment and it is harm free, making it an incredible option for ulcer treatment. This form of treatment works by exposing affected body parts to daylight or a specific wavelength of light in a device at home or in a doctor’s office.
Red light therapy is the most commonly used form of treatment for wound healing. Red light can heal a wound 200% faster than a natural healing process. Infrared red light therapy works by using a range of wavelengths to penetrate the outer layer of the skin to a depth between 8 to 10 mm, which provides the cells with usable energy. This energy can bring about many different reactions in cells such as:
Healing
Inflammation reduction
Increased production of collagen
Increased circulation
Formation of new capillaries
Increased lymph system activity
Increased release of raw cellular energy (ATP)
Increased cellular clean up (phagocytosis)
Tissue granulation is stimulated
Red light therapy will not treat ulcers or other wounds immediately. However, if used on a consistent schedule, patients can see results in 24 hours to 2 months depending on the intensity of the ulcer and the treatment regime.
Side Effects…
While the list of benefits for red light therapy is nearly endless, the adverse side effects are nonexistent. There have been no reported cases of light therapy harming anyone attempting to treat diabetic foot ulcers. Interestingly enough, there are no reported negative side affects for red light therapy in general!
Breaking Headlines!
The promise that light therapy shows in treating wounds such as diabetic foot ulcers is remarkable. If light therapy can stop infection, heal wounds, help us keep all of our limbs, and make diabetics’ lives easier, what can’t it do?!
Posted on May 2, 2016	In Light Therapy, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments
Does Red Light Therapy Work?
What Is Red Light Therapy?
Red light therapy is a specific form of light therapy that uses red LEDs to treat skin and body conditions. Red light therapy has been proven effective in treating acne and aiding in anti-aging. For example, it tightens and firms the skin to rid of wrinkles and fine lines. It also aids in treating severe skin conditions such as Psoriasis, Eczema, Roseacea, sun damage, and more. Aside from skin disorders and conditions, Red Light Therapy can relieve joint and muscle pain. It can even help people struggling with chronic back pain. Yes, you read it correctly. Chronic pain! It doesn’t get much more impressive than that.
Why Would You Need It?
If you want to continue dealing with acne, or you enjoy the aging process happening with your skin, or you enjoy your body aches and chronic pain, red light therapy is definitely not for you. But I’m just going to go out on a limb here and assume you don’t prefer living with these conditions. This is why you need red light therapy in your life.
Red light therapy, like all forms of light therapy, is the natural treatment route. This therapy is safe, non-invasive, chemical free, drug free and inexpensive when done at home. Acne creams, washes, and lotions are inexpensive, filled with chemicals, and hardly ever effective. Skin rejuvenation serums are also expensive and unhealthy and don’t get me started on plastic surgery! No way! And pain killers. If pain killers can be avoided, they probably should be. Pills can upset your stomach, leave you addicted, and come with a whole book full of side affects.
How Does It Work?
Red light therapy works by penetrating the skin with LEDs in the form of many different devices, depending what you’re hoping for as an end result. As for acne, red light therapy devices penetrate deep into the skin to kill acne causing bacteria and bring your skin back to it’s normal health. With skin rejuvenation, the red lights help heal and tighten the skin by repairing damaged skin cells underneath the surface of the skin. The result is reduced fine lines and wrinkles and a healthy, young looking, glow.
When it comes to more serious skin conditions, such as Psoriasis, sun damage, scars, and more, Red Light Therapy treatments penetrate into the skin, helping to cure the damaged skin and stop what exactly is causing the damage.
As for pain relief, red light therapy penetrates deep into the tissue underneath the surface of the skin. From here the light is absorbed by the mitochondria, or the energy of the cells. This increases the metabolism of the collective cells in the body. Healing can then begin in the muscle, skin, bone, and tissue. This speeds up the healing process and helps relieve pain.
But…Does It Actually Work?
This is the common question when it comes to light therapy. Does it actually work? Our answer and the answer of doctors from all different fields of work…yes! Red light therapy actually works. It is still being studied, and the world still does not not know the maximum potential of the treatments, but it has proven more than effective in treating an extremely diverse array of conditions and disorders. Red Light Therapy is a total game changer for the medical world.
Some Quotes!
“Traditional drugs stop the pain but are expensive, have potential side effects and do not heal the cause of the pain. Light therapy has no known negative side effects. Because no drugs are used, light therapy is a natural, noninvasive treatment for pain. Part of the natural spectrum, infrared light is something you are exposed to in a less-concentrated way every day. Light therapy is a cost-effective, natural way to heal the body and eliminate pain.”
-Linda Tenenbaum, LiveStrong.com
“Dermatologists are investigating red light (in the range of 600 – 950nm) therapy to treat acne, rosacea and wrinkles. Red light works theoretically by stimulating the skin’s energy making machine, known as the mitochondria. As such, stimulated mitochondria make older cells behave more like energetic youthful cells – which holds the key to red light’s anti-aging potential.”
-American Academy of DermatologyWhat Is Red Light Therapy?
Posted on April 18, 2016	In Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Uncategorized
Older
Features
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Recent Posts
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
How Light Therapy Works!
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Understanding and Appreciating Vitamin D
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light Therapy is Boosting Libido in Men!
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
November 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
Categories
Acne
Blue Light Therapy
Celebrities
Children
Chronic Pain
Color Light Therapy
Daylight Savings Time
Depression
Devices
Experiments
Hair Loss
Infrared Red Light Therapy
Insomnia
Jetlag
Libido
Light Therapy
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Products
Psoriasis
Red Light Therapy
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Skin Rejuvenation
Skin Treatments
Small Space
Studies
Sunlight
Top 10's
Travel
Uncategorized
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
Wound Healing
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© 2019 Light Therapy Review — foundly by Foundly