L-Theanine - Best nootropics and nootropic stacks | NootropicBoost
Home
Best Nootropics
Nootropic Stacks
Articles
Contacts
Home
Best Nootropics
Nootropic Stacks
Articles
Contacts
Home / Buy Nootropics / L-Theanine
L-Theanine
2	Customer Reviews
Buy $11.99
Share
L-theanine has a chemical structure that closely resembles that of GABA and glutamic acid. Taking L-theanine is said to increase these two neurotransmitters in the brain. For this reason, L-theanine is also referred to as brain fuel. GABA and glutamic acid are responsible for communication between neurons; they are also closely related to mood, memory, and thinking.
The same neurotransmitters are also connected to alpha brain waves. Taking L-theanine can substantially increase alpha brain waves, which relax the user and induce the feeling of calmness.
The natural nootropic L-theanine closely resembles L-tryptophan, which develops into serotonin. Serotonin is an important neurotransmitter that plays a crucial role in the sleep-wake cycle and key to the feeling of relaxation.
L-theanine in green tea is an excellent antioxidant. It restricts the oxidation of bad cholesterol (LDL cholesterol). Its relaxing properties reduce blood pressure and its nitric acid promoting effect reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases.
L-Theanine and Caffeine: These two nootropic supplements form the dream team that helps improve focus, concentration, and attention span. Research on the benefits of this pair was carried with a groupof young adults as participants in 2013. They were given a series of demanding tasks and their focus, alertness, and energy was put to the test. The group that was given moderate levels of caffeine and L-theanine performed better than the placebo group. A similar study found that the supplements took effect within 30 minutes of use.
L-Theanine and Immunity: Experts have found that L-theanine does its bit to boost the immune system. A journal reported that use of this nootropic supplement reduces the risks of infection in the upper respiratory tract. Another study established the benefit of this supplement in improving inflammation in the GI tract.
L-Theanine and Blood Pressure: Sometimes, facing a stressful situation our blood pressure increases. L-theanine can help us by reducing stress and normalizing the blood pressure. This particular trait of L-theanine was put to the test in a study carried out in 2012. Participants were given certain mental tasks that would increase their blood pressure. The participants were divided into groups and their reaction to supplements was measured. The study found that L-theanine managed to reduce blood pressure, whereas, caffeine wasn’t beneficial in this manner.
L-Theanine and Sleep: If you’re not getting adequate sleep then L-theanine could be of great help. Taking 400mg of this supplement can improve sleep quality and make you feel refreshed in the morning.
Dosage: 100 – 250 mg per day
What L-Theanine Does
Increases production of GABA and Glutamic Acid
Modulates Alpha Brain Waves
Causes the production of neurotransmitter serotonin
Has antioxidant properties
Promotes production of nitric acid
L-Theanine Benefits
Reduces anxiety and nervousness
Relaxes and brings a feeling of calmness
Prevents of oxidation of LDL cholesterol
Reduces blood pressure
Decreases the risk of cardiovascular diseases
reviews Add comments
Average rating:
0
Add comments
1
2
3
4
5
Check this box to confirm you are human.
Comment
top rated nootropics All Nootropics
L-Theanine
(2)
$11.99
Buy
Coleus Forskohlii
(21)
$29.99
Buy
Alpha-GPC
(3)
$10.97-56.60
Buy
Citicoline
(4)
$32.99
Buy
Copiright © 2019, bestnootropics.org / All Rights Reserved.