bug bites | AromaTools Blog
AromaTools Blog
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Shop
Essential Ideas
See Modern Essentials
Essential Oil Spotlights
Diffuser Blends
Cooking with Essential Oils
Essential Oil Crafts
Body Care Recipes
Essential Oil Cleaning Tips
Essential Oils for Children
Essential Oils for Pet Care
Essential Oil Class Ideas
Business-Building Tips
Product Spotlights
Classes & Events
Wellness Wednesday Classes
Week of Wellness Classes
About Us
Contact Us
Announcements
Copyright Notice
Tag Archives: bug bites
All-Natural Essential Oil Bug Spray
Posted on June 11, 2018 by AromaTools
Reply
Summer adventures bring lots of bugs, and subsequently, lots of bug bites. Here’s an all-natural bug spray recipe that will keep the bugs away without damaging your health. Our favorite part? It smells so much better than typical bug sprays!
Bug Spray
Servings: Yield=4 oz. (100 ml)
Time: 2 minutes
Difficulty: Easy
Print
Ingredients:
1/4 cup (50 ml) Witch Hazel
1/4 cup (50 ml) distilled water
10 drops lavender essential oil
7 drops melaleuca essential oil
7 drops peppermint essential oil
7 drops lemongrass essential oil
4 oz. Spray Bottle
“Bug Spray” vinyl label
Instructions:
Combine the witch hazel and water in the spray bottle.
Add the essential oils, and shake to combine.
Spritz the bug spray on your skin, and rub in.
Share this:
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in Body Care Recipes	| Tagged bug bites, bug spray, bugs, lavender, lemongrass, melaleuca, peppermint, spray, spray bottle, summer, witch hazel	| Leave a reply
See Modern Essentials: Soothing Insect Bites and Stings
Posted on July 14, 2014 by AromaTools
3
It’s summertime, and the insects are out and likely to bite. Learn which essential oils to keep on hand to help soothe bites and stings.
The following information comes from the book Modern Essentials.
The information on this page is for educational purposes only. It is not meant to be used to diagnose, prescribe, or treat any disease, illness, or injury. Seek professional medical attention if you appear to have any disease, illness, or injury.
Some of the best oils to have on hand for dealing with insect bites and stings include thyme, basil, lemon, cinnamon, and lavender.
Bee and Hornet Stings: Roman chamomile, basil, Cleansing Blend, lavender, lemongrass, lemon, peppermint, or thyme. Recipe: Remove the stinger, and apply a cold compress of Roman chamomile to the area for several hours or for as long as possible.
Simple Solutions—Bee Sting: Combine 2 drops roman chamomile with 1/4 tsp. (1.5 g) baking soda and a few drops of water to make a paste. Scrape stinger from skin if still there, and apply paste on location. Cover with a cool damp cloth; hold on location for 5–10 minutes.
Gnats and Midges: Lavender or thyme. Recipe: Mix 3 drops thyme in 1 tsp. cider vinegar or lemon juice. Apply to bites to stop irritation.
Mosquitos: Lavender or helichrysum. (See recipe below for a creative way to soothe mosquito bites.)
Spiders: basil, Cleansing Blend (with melaleuca), lavender, lemongrass, lemon, peppermint, or thyme. Recipe: Mix 3 drops lavender and 2 drops Roman chamomile with 1 tsp. alcohol. Apply to area three times per day.
Ticks: After getting the tick out, apply 1 drop lavender every 5 minutes for 30 minutes.
Removing Ticks:
Do not apply mineral oil, Vaseline, or anything else to remove the tick, as this may cause the tick to inject spirochetes into the wound.
Be sure to remove the entire tick. Get as close to the mouth as possible, and firmly tug on the tick until it releases its grip. Don’t twist. If available, use a magnifying glass to make sure that you have removed the entire tick.
Save the tick in a jar, and label it with the date, where you were bitten on your body, and the location or address where you were bitten for proper identification by your doctor, especially if you develop any symptoms.
Do not handle the tick.
Wash hands immediately.
Check the site of the bite occasionally to see if any rash develops. If it does, seek medical advice promptly.
Wasps: Recipe: Combine 1 drop basil, 2 drops Roman chamomile, 2 drops lavender, and 1 tsp. apple cider vinegar. Apply to area three times a day.
Source: Modern Essentials, Eighth Edition, pp. 230–231 (“Bites/Stings”).
The information above is an abridgment from the Modern Essentials “Personal Usage Guide” section by AromaTools®. This information has been designed to help educate the reader in regard to the subject matter covered. This information is provided with the understanding that the publisher, the authors, and AromaTools® are not liable for the misconception or misuse of the information provided. It is not provided in order to diagnose, prescribe, or treat any disease, illness, or injured condition of the body. The authors, publisher, and AromaTools® shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss, damage, or injury caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by this information. The information presented is in no way intended as a substitute for medical counseling. Anyone suffering from any disease, illness, or injury should consult a qualified health care professional.
Soothing Bug Bite Sticks
The following recipe is great for soothing annoying mosquito bites and will probably work on other bites as well. These cold coconut oil sticks are perfect for children because they give them something to do instead of itch the bites and make them worse. If desired, these coconut oil sticks can also work as chapstick!
Soothing Bug Bite Sticks
Time: 5 minutes active; 15 minutes inactive
Difficulty: Easy
Print
Ingredients and Materials Needed:
2 Tbs. coconut oil
1 tsp. beeswax pellets (optional—helps the coconut oil remain more firm at room temperature)
2–4 drops lavender essential oil
6 lip balm dispensers or 2 travel deodorant containers
Instructions:
Place coconut oil in a small glass jar with a lid. Warm by running hot water over the jar until the coconut oil becomes liquid. If using the beeswax, you will need to heat the oils in the microwave or in a glass dish set in a pan of simmering water (creating a double boiler).
Add lavender essential oil, and mix together.
Pour into lip balm or travel deodorant containers, and place in the refrigerator or freezer until solid.
To apply, simply twist the bottom of the tube to push the coconut oil out and rub on the bite.
Store in the refrigerator when not in use. Coconut oil remains solid below 76˚F.
Updated 07/19/2017
Share this:
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in Body Care Recipes, Essential Ideas, Essential Oil Crafts, See Modern Essentials	| Tagged bug bite sticks, bug bites, bugs, coconut oil, essential oils, insects, lavender, modern essentials, See Modern Essentials	| 3 Replies
Most Popular Posts Today
The Art of Roller Bottle Blending
Healthy Nails Serum
Modern Essentials® Plus is Here!
Essential Oils for Cut Flowers
Capsules and Essential Oils - FAQs
Lavender Sunburn Ointment
10 Diffuser Blends for the Road
Essential Oil Sock Bunnies
Essential Oil Spotlight: Copaiba
Keys to Successful Essential Oil Classes (Including 50+ Class Ideas)
Search
Search
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Follow Us on Social Media
View aromatools’s profile on Facebook
View aromatools’s profile on Twitter
View aromatools’s profile on Instagram
View aromatools’s profile on Pinterest
View AromaTools’s profile on YouTube
Like Us on Facebook
Like Us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
My Tweets
Proudly powered by WordPress
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: