Nutrients and Vitamins for Pregnancy
Member Login
Ovulation Calendar
Pregnancy Calculator
Baby Names
Member Login
American Pregnancy Association
Follow Your Pregnancy Week-By-Week
Subscribe to our free week-by-week email newsletter
Enroll Now
Toggle navigation
Trying To Conceive
Getting Pregnant
Infertility
Adoption
Planning and Preparing
Prenatal Testing
Preventing Pregnancy
Your Pregnancy
Your Developing Baby
Pregnancy Wellness
Multiples Pregnancy
Week by Week
Naturally
Pregnancy Concerns
Unplanned Pregnancy
Pregnancy Complications
Birth Defects & Disorders
Is it Safe While Pregnant
Medications & Pregnancy
Pregnancy Loss
Birth & Beyond
Labor and Birth
Birth & Beyond
Breastfeeding
Women’s Health
About
Blog
Discussion
About APA
Online Advertising
Medical Advisory Committee
Corporate Sponsor Info
Corporate Sponsors
Delivering Excellence
Fertility Shop
(800) 672-2296
Live Chat
English
Español
Donate
Nutrients & Vitamins For Pregnancy
Home / Pregnancy Wellness / Nutrients & Vitamins For Pregnancy
According to the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), a pregnant woman’s intake should consist of a variety of foods, including:
Proteins
Carbohydrates
Vitamins
Minerals
Fats
From these, you should get the right nutrients and vitamins for pregnancy health and your baby’s development.
A balanced diet is still one of the best ways to make sure that you get all of your daily nutrients.Click To Tweet
A balanced nutritional intake is the best way to receive the necessary nutrients, but vitamin supplements can also be beneficial. Prenatal vitamin supplements are recommended plus any additional vitamins or minerals if your doctor finds any deficiencies.
Remember, supplements do not replace a healthy diet, but rather ensure that a woman is receiving enough daily nutrients.
It is important to note that pregnant women should take vitamin supplements only with a health care provider’s direct recommendation.
Find a Nutritionist in Your Area
Nutrients and Vitamins for Pregnancy
It is important to remember that with a healthy diet, you should be able to get the full amount of these vitamins and minerals. Talk with your healthcare provider about additional supplements to ensure that (1) you are getting enough of each vitamin/mineral, and (2) you are not exceeding the daily maximum for each vitamin/mineral, to avoid overdose/toxicity.
Since a healthy diet should provide most if not all of these vitamins and minerals, you likely will not need to take a prenatal supplement that contains 100% of the recommended daily allowance (RDA) listed below in the table.
Essential Vitamin/Mineral: Why You Need It: Where You Find It:
Vitamin A & Beta Carotene (770 mcg, daily max = 1000 mcg) Helps bones and teeth grow Liver, milk, eggs, carrots, spinach, green and yellow vegetables, broccoli, potatoes, pumpkin, yellow fruits, cantaloupe
Vitamin D (5 mcg/600 IU, daily max = 4000 IU) Helps body use calcium and phosphorus; promotes strong teeth and bones Milk, fatty fish, sunshine
Vitamin E (15 mg, daily max = 1000 mg) Helps body form and use red blood cells and muscles Vegetable oil, wheat germ, nuts, spinach, fortified cereals
Vitamin C (80 – 85 mg*, daily max = 2000 mg) An antioxidant that protects tissues from damage and helps body absorb iron; builds healthy immune system Citrus fruits, bell peppers, green beans, strawberries, papaya, potatoes, broccoli, tomatoes
Thiamin/B1 (1.4 mg) Raises energy level and regulates nervous system Whole grain, fortified cereals, wheat germ, organ meats, eggs, rice, pasta, berries, nuts, legumes, pork
Riboflavin/B2 (1.4 mg) Maintains energy, good eyesight, healthy skin Meats, poultry, fish, dairy products, fortified cereals, eggs
Niacin/B3 (18 mg, daily max = 35 mg) Promotes healthy skin, nerves, and digestion High-protein foods, fortified cereals, and bread, meats, fish, milk, eggs, peanuts
Pyridoxine/B6 (1.9 mg, daily max = 100 mg) Helps form red blood cells; helps to reduce morning sickness Chicken, fish, liver, pork, eggs, soybeans, carrots, cabbage, cantaloupe, peas, spinach, wheat germ, sunflower seeds, bananas, beans, broccoli, brown rice, oats, bran, peanuts, walnuts
Vitamin B12 (2.6 mcg) Important factor in DNA synthesis, and may help prevent neural tube defects (NTDs) Shellfish, fish, beef, liver, pork, eggs, dairy, poultry
Folic Acid/Folate (400 – 800 mcg†, daily max = 1000 mcg) Helps support the placenta and prevents spina bifida and other NTDs Oranges, orange juice, strawberries, green leafy vegetables, spinach, beets, broccoli, cauliflower, fortified cereals, peas, pasta, beans, nuts
Calcium (1,000 – 1,300 mg‡) Creates healthy bones and teeth, helps prevent blood clots, helps muscles and nerves function Yogurt, milk, cheddar cheese, calcium-fortified foods like soy milk, juices, bread, cereals, dark green leafy vegetables, canned fish with bones
Iron (27 mg) Helps in the production of hemoglobin; prevents anemia, low birth weight, and premature delivery Beef, pork, dried beans, spinach, dried fruits, wheat germ, oatmeal or grains fortified with iron
Protein (71 g) Helps in the production of amino acids; repairs cells Most animal foods, meat, poultry, eggs, dairy products, veggie burgers, beans, legumes, nuts
Zinc (11 – 13 mg**) Helps produce insulin and enzymes Red meats, poultry, beans, nuts, whole grains, fortified cereals, oysters, dairy products
* Vitamin C: for pregnant women under 18 years of age, 80 mg is suggested; for those above 18 years, 85 mg is recommended.
† Folic Acid/Folate: any level between 400 and 800 micrograms/mcg (or 0.4 and 0.8 milligrams/mg) is typically safe for pregnancy; check with your healthcare provider to find what level is right for you.
‡ Calcium: for pregnant women in their teen years, 1300 mg is suggested; for those age 20 and above, 1000 mg is suggested.
** Zinc: for pregnant women under 18 years of age, 13 mg is suggested; for those above 18 years, 11 mg is suggested.
If you have any dietary restrictions or concerns that you may not be getting enough of certain vitamins or minerals, talk to your healthcare provider and/or nutritionist about supplementation options or dietary recommendations.
For more information on the typical vitamins and minerals, you will find in prenatal vitamins, check out our article Prenatal Vitamin Ingredients.
Last updated: August 3, 2017 at 22:29 pm
Compiled using information from the following sources:
1. David G. Mottershead, et. al. Cumulin, an oocyte-secreted heterodimer of the transforming growth factor-beta family, is a potent activator of granulosa cells and improves oocyte quality. Journal of Biological Chemistry. 25 September 2015. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M115.671487
https://www.jbc.org/content/290/39/24007.full
2. Your Pregnancy and Birth, Month to Month, Fifth Ed. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Ch. 13.
3. Institute of Medicine of the National Academies
https://www.iom.edu/
4. Mayo Clinic: Drugs and Supplements: Vitamin B12
https://www.mayoclinic.org/drugs-supplements/vitamin-b12/background/hrb-20060243
5. Oregon State University – Linus Pauling Institute: Vitamin B12
https://lpi.oregonstate.edu/mic/vitamins/vitamin-B12
6. Vitamin D Supplementation during Pregnancy: Double Blind, Randomized Clinical Trial of Safety and Effectiveness. J Bone Miner Res. 26 October 2011. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.463
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3183324/
7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): Folic Acid Recommendations
https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/folicacid/recommendations.html
Share
Pin
Tweet
Share
391 Shares
Share
Pin
Tweet
Share
391 Shares
Tags: Nutrition During Pregnancy
Search
Find Healthcare Providers That Can Help You Through Your Pregnancy.
Type Of Provider
Acupuncturist Adoption Professional Birth Center Childbirth Educator Chiropractor Counselor Doula Family Law General Practitioner Genetic Counselor Holistic Healthcare Specialist Homeopath Hospital Infertility Specialist Lactation Consultant Life Insurance Massage Therapist Maternity Home Medicaid Office Midwife Nutritionist Ob-Gyn Pediatrician Pharmacy Physical Therapist Pregnancy Center Support Group WIC Center Yoga or Fitness Instructor
Zip Code
Radius 1 mile 5 miles 10 miles 15 miles 20 miles 30 miles 50 miles 100 miles
Education Supported By
Helpful Information
About
Contact
Corporate Sponsors
Planning
Adoption
Birth & Beyond
Getting Pregnant
Labor and Birth
Pregnancy
Planning and Preparing
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy Concerns
Your Pregnancy
Connect
Contact Us Here Donate to APA
© 2019 American Pregnancy Association. | Web Design by AXZM
The information on this site is not intended or implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. All content, including text, graphics, images, and information, contained on or available through this website is for general information purposes only. The purpose of this is to help with education and create better conversations between patients and their healthcare providers.
Pregnancy Wellness Nutrition During Pregnancy editor