15 natural and home remedies for migraine relief
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What are some tips for instant migraine relief?
Last reviewed	 Mon 20 August 2018	 Last reviewed	Mon 20 Aug 2018
By Nicole Galan
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Migraine is one of the most common conditions in the world, according to the Migraine Research Foundation. Migraines can run in families with children and adults known to have them.
In America, the Migraine Research Foundation estimate that almost 12 percent of people suffer from migraine headaches.
Migraine headaches are not simply a severe headache. Migraines are part of a neurological condition and often have other symptoms, including:
nausea
vomiting
tingling or numbness in the hands or feet
visual changes
sensitivity to sound, light, or smell
Migraines can be debilitating and a chronic condition that can impact daily life for some people.
There are many different medications used to treat and prevent migraines. But some people prefer to use natural treatments as alternatives or to supplement medical treatment.
Natural remedies for migraines
Here are 15 natural remedies for migraines that people may want to try:
1. Acupressure
Acupressure therapy may help relieve some migraine symptoms.
Acupressure involves the application of pressure to specific parts of the body. Stimulating specific points of the body in this way is believed to release muscle tension and alleviate pain.
One popular pressure point is the LI-4 point in the space between the base of the left thumb and pointer finger.
Applying firm but not painful circular pressure to the LI-4 point, using the opposite hand for 5 minutes, may relieve headache pain.
A 2012 study looked at 40 people who had migraines without aura. It found that pressure on the PC6 acupoint, which is located three fingers up from the base of the wrist on the inside of the arm, was effective in relieving migraine-associated nausea or vomiting associated with a migraine headache.
2. Diet changes
Many people who get migraines notice certain foods can trigger them.
Common food triggers for migraines include:
processed foods
red wine
alcohol
chocolate
caffeinated beverages
Being aware of what might be triggering a migraine is critical. Some people use a food diary or migraine journal to keep track of potential triggers.
Changing diet or eating patterns to avoid triggers may help to prevent migraines in the future.
3. Essential oils
Essential oils are often used as natural remedies or as an antimicrobial in homemade cleaning products.
Lavender is an essential oil often recommended as a remedy for stress, anxiety, and headaches. Another small study published in European Neurology found that lavender oil inhalation helped reduce the severity of migraine headaches in some people.
The results are encouraging, but further research using larger sample sizes is needed.
4. Ginger
A 2014 study using 100 participants compared the effectiveness of ginger powder with sumatriptan, a common migraine drug.
The researchers found the effectiveness of ginger was statistically comparable to sumatriptan, and users were as willing to continue with either treatment.
One definite benefit for people who get migraines is that using ginger cannot hurt and, aside from an existing allergy, there are no side effects to using it.
5. Stress management
Journaling may help relieve stress.
Stress is a common trigger for migraines. Stress can also create a cycle where migraine pain worsens the stress, which then triggers another migraine.
Finding outlets for stress, such as journaling, exercise, or meditation, may help to prevent future migraines.
People can also try taking a stress management class. They may choose to take a warm bath or listen to music, as well, to try to relieve the stress they feel.
By doing these positive actions, a person is choosing to take control of their body's reaction to the stress in their life.
6. Yoga or stretching
Yoga is thought to help improve blood flow and reduce muscle tension, which can help relieve symptoms for people who get migraines.
A comprehensive 2014 study compared conventional migraine treatment with and without the addition of regular yoga practice.
The researchers found that the group who participated in a yoga program had greater relief than the group who joined in conventional treatment alone.
7. Biofeedback therapy
Biofeedback is a therapy that people use to trigger the release and relaxation of tight muscles.
Biofeedback takes practice and training. Sensors placed on the muscles feed into a small machine that gives real-time feedback about muscle tension, allowing users to release the tight areas better.
Placement of sensors along the forehead, jawline, or trapezius muscles in the shoulders can help to target muscles that might be triggering migraine pain.
8. Acupuncture
An extensive 2012 systematic review looked at studies that evaluated the effectiveness of acupuncture for treating migraines and other conditions.
The study authors found that acupuncture is an effective treatment choice for people with migraine headaches, although they pointed out that other factors might be playing a part also.
People who are interested in using acupuncture for migraines should make sure to find a licensed practitioner for treatment.
9. Massage
Massaging the muscles in the neck and shoulders can help to relieve tension and alleviate migraine pain. Massage may also reduce stress.
People can choose to use a professional masseuse for a massage. Alternatively, taking a tennis ball and using it to do a self-massage along the shoulders and back is another, more cost-effective, option.
10. Herbal supplements
Herbal supplements, such as butterbur, may help reduce migraine frequency.
Butterbur and feverfew are two herbal supplements that may be helpful in reducing migraine pain and frequency.
A daily dose of 150 milligrams (mg) of butterbur was effective in lowering migraine frequency when taken for about 3 months, according to the American Migraine Foundation.
The foundation suggest feverfew is less effective than butterbur. Feverfew may, however, be helpful for some people.
There are some risks in using these herbs, severe in rare cases, and anyone wanting to try them should speak with their doctor first.
11. Magnesium
Deficiency of magnesium, which is an essential mineral, may trigger migraine aura or a menstrual-migraine headache.
A migraine aura is a visual disturbance that occurs at the onset of a migraine. Not everyone who gets migraines will experience a migraine aura.
Research has found that supplementation of magnesium can be useful in reducing the frequency of migraines in some individuals.
People should speak with their doctor before starting to take magnesium, particularly if they have other health conditions.
What is a basilar migraine?
Migraines can be so severe that they cause visual disturbances. When this occurs, it is known as a basilar migraine. Learn more about basilar migraines here.
Read now
12. B-complex vitamins
The B vitamins may have an impact on reducing migraine frequency and severity. B vitamins play a role in regulating neurotransmitters in the brain.
B vitamins are water soluble, meaning that excess levels are excreted in the urine and not stored in the body.
The body quickly excretes B vitamins, so it is unlikely someone could take too much. Nevertheless, it is still important to speak with a doctor before starting to take a daily B-complex vitamin.
Trials are being done to establish how useful B vitamins are in helping to alleviate the occupational stress that people experience from their jobs.
13. Stay hydrated
Not drinking enough water is a well-known migraine and headache trigger, and it only takes minor dehydration to bring on a headache.
People can try to drink more water each day to avoid dehydration. People with severe dehydration may initially need an oral rehydration solution to replace missing electrolytes.
Drinking water throughout the day, and maintaining a healthful diet is usually enough to stay sufficiently hydrated.
14. Rest
Lack of sleep and too much sleep can be triggers for migraine headaches.
Getting 7–9 hours of restful sleep each night can help to reduce stress and prevent migraines.
15. Compresses
Some people find placing a cold or warm compress on their head can be soothing and help to reduce migraine pain.
Many people who get migraines report a preference for a cold compress, but warm or cold can work.
There are few side effects of using this therapy, though people with circulatory problems, diabetes, or skin issues should avoid extremes of temperature.
Takeaway
People need to collaborate with a doctor or migraine specialist to find a treatment regimen that works, even when trying natural remedies.
Keeping a migraine or headache journal can be useful in identifying triggers and effective remedies for migraines.
Related coverage
Can CBD oil help with migraines? Some researchers suggest that cannabidiol (CBD) oil can treat a range of complaints and conditions. While CBD is a compound in cannabis, the oil cannot get a person high. In some people, it may relieve pain associated with migraines. Here, learn about the potentially healthful properties of CBD oil and how to use it. Read now
What's to know about hemiplegic migraines? Often confused with a stroke, hemiplegic migraines are a rare form of migraine. It is a type of migraine triggered by certain foods or trauma that can also cause neurological difficulties, such as weakness on one side of the body. Learn about the motor weakness and visual disturbances they can cause. Read now
How does acupuncture work? Acupuncture is an alternative therapy that involves inserting thin needles into targeted areas of the body. Some believe that this balances a person’s vital energy, while others point to a neurological effect. Acupuncture may relieve pain and a range of other symptoms. Here, learn about uses, risks, and what to expect. Read now
Does magnesium relieve migraines? Many people use magnesium, which is a naturally occurring mineral, to treat and prevent migraine headaches, especially those with aura. In this article, learn about the effectiveness of magnesium and discover whether there are any side effects or risks. We also list some of the foods that contain magnesium. Read now
What is an intractable migraine? Learn all about status migrainosus, a severe and long-lasting migraine that lasts for longer than 3 days. It is also known as intractable migraine. Symptoms include intense throbbing, nausea and vomiting, aura, and changes of consciousness. Medications that may help include anti-nausea drugs to prevent dehydration. Read now
email email
print
share share
Headache / Migraine
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine Nutrition / Diet Pain / Anesthetics
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Mon 20 August 2018.
Visit our Headache / Migraine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Headache / Migraine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Acupressure for pain and headaches. (2017, September 11). Retrieved from https://www.mskcc.org/cancer-care/patient-education/acupressure-pain-and-headaches
Allais, G., Rolando, S., Castagnoli Gabellari, I., Burzio, C., Airola, G., Borgogno, P., ... Benedetto, C. (2012, May). Acupressure in the control of migraine-associated nausea. Neurological Sciences, 33(Suppl 1), 207–210. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3362706/
Biofeedback and relaxation training for headaches. (2016, November 12). Retrieved from https://americanmigrainefoundation.org/understanding-migraine/biofeedback-and-relaxation-training-for-headaches/
Headaches and dehydration. (2016, July 16). Retrieved from https://headaches.org/2016/07/07/headaches-and-dehydration/
Kisan, R., Sujan, M. U., Adoor, M., Rao, R., Nalini, A., Kutty, B. M., ... Sathyaprabha, T. N. (2014,July–December). Effect of Yoga on migraine: A comprehensive study using clinical profile and cardiac autonomic functions. International Journal of Yoga, 7(2), 126–132. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4097897/
Langevin, H., & Bernstein, C. A. (2018, January 25). Acupuncture for headache. Retrieved from https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/acupuncture-for-headache-2018012513146
Living with migraine: Diet and migraine. (2017, September 21). Retrieved from https://americanmigrainefoundation.org/understanding-migraine/living-with-migraine-diet-and-migraine/
Maghbooli, M., Golipour, F., Moghimi Esfandabadi, A., & Yousefi, M. (2014, March). Comparison between the efficacy of ginger and sumatriptan in the ablative treatment of the common migraine. Phytotherapy Research, 28(3), 412–415. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23657930
Magnesium may be effective for migraine. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://headaches.org/2018/01/16/magnesium-may-effective-migraine/
Migraine and diet. (2016, January 1). Retrieved from https://americanmigrainefoundation.org/understanding-migraine/migraine-and-diet/
Minton, L. S. (2018, June). Vitamins. Retrieved from https://migraine.com/migraine-treatment/natural-remedies/vitamins/
Raising money for migraine research. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://migraineresearchfoundation.org/about-migraine/migraine-facts/
Sasannejad, P., Saeedi, M., Shoeibi, A., Gorji, A., Abbasi, M., & Foroughipour, M. (2012, April 17). Lavender essential oil in the treatment of migraine headache: A placebo-controlled clinical trial [Abstract]. European Neurology, 67(5), 288–291. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22517298
Stough, C., Simpson, T., Lomas, J., McPhee, G., Billings, C., Myers, S., … Downey, L. A. (2014, December 22). Reducing occupational stress with a B-vitamin focused intervention: A randomized clinical trial: Study protocol. Nutrition Journal, 13, 1222. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4290459/
Stress and migraine. (2017, March 16). Retrieved from https://americanmigrainefoundation.org/understanding-migraine/stress-migraine/
Vickers, A. J., Cronin, A. M., Maschino, A. C., Lewith, G., MacPherson, H., Foster, N. E., ... Linde, K. (2012, October 22). Acupuncture for chronic pain: Individual patient data meta-analysis. Archives of Internal Medicine, 172(19), 1444–1453. Retrieved from https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/1357513
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Galan, Nicole. "What are some tips for instant migraine relief?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 20 Aug. 2018. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322814.php>
APA
Galan, N. (2018, August 20). "What are some tips for instant migraine relief?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322814.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Popular in: Headache / Migraine
What are some tips for instant migraine relief?
What causes a headache with nausea?
What is a cervicogenic headache?
19 natural remedies for a headache
Which foods help prevent migraines?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322814.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);