MagnesiumOrotate | Control Cholesterol | Controls Diabetes | Migraine
Select Your Style
Choose your layout
Patterns for Boxed Layout
Color scheme
Third Eye Chemicals
+91 94436 71405 sales@thirdeyechemicals.com
Menu
Home
About us
FAQ
Products
Contact
Cart
International Customers
Home Magnesium
Magnesium Orotate 30 capsules
Magnesium Orotate 30 capsules
Out of Stock
Magnesium Orotate 30 capsules
₹140.00
Helth Supplement
Promotes Cardiac Health , mitigates Diabetes, helps in migraine and cramps
30 x 430 mg capsules
Each capsule contains Magnesium Orotate – 430 mg
Suggested dosage: Two capsules after breakfast and Two capsules before sleep.
Available at Amazon.in & Flipkart.com
Out of stock
Add to Wishlist
Product added! Browse Wishlist
The product is already in the wishlist! Browse Wishlist
Category: Magnesium
Description
Additional information
Reviews (0)
Description
High absorbance: TEC-LIFE® magnesium orotate is easily absorbed into the cells. Reduces cholesterol and triglycerides, improves HDL. Controls the HMG CoA Reductase enzyme that generates cholesterol (statin action without the bad side effects of statins). Regulates heart beat rates, controls atrial and ventricular tachycardia thus enhances cardiac functions. Improves insulin sensitivity , opens up the cell gates for blood glucose and thus mitigates diabetes. Controls migraine and menstrual cramps by dissolving the blood clots. Kidney stones are prevented by regularly taking TEC-LIFE® Magnesium.
Storage: Keep in a dry place under roof at normal room temperature.
Important: Keep away from children
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium Orotate the magic compound which does a world of good for our health. But essentially, TEC-LIFE® Magnesium Orotate is recommended for the following:
Control and reduction of blood cholesterol
Control of cardiac arrhythmia and palpitation
Attenuation of diabetes by improving insulin sensitivity
Control and prevention of menstrual cramps
Control and prevention of migraine
Prevention of kidney stones
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium Orotate is not a laxative like other magnesium compounds
1.CHOLESTEROL CONTROL:
The orotate couples with ribose in the walls of blood vessels and releases magnesium. Magnesium activates the cholesterol metabolizing enzymes thus preventing cholesterol accumulation. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium inhibits the activity of HMG-CoA reductase enzyme which synthesizes cholesterol. This inhibition is the same as that of statins, but without the bad side effects of statins.
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium is a safe and effective substitute for statin drugs. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium can perform other lipid altering functions that are not even shared by statin drugs. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium is necessary for the activity of an enzyme that lowers LDL ,the bad cholesterol. It can also lower triglycerides and elevate HDL, the good cholesterol
2.CARDIAC PALPITATION and ARRHYTHMIA CONTROL :
The heart,s pecifically the left ventricle has the highest amount of magnesium in the body.Any deficiency there triggers cardiac palpitation and arrythmia. Statin drugs have fluoride in them that cause havoc by making magnesium unavailable to body . Generally, for such conditions drugs such as amiodarone are prescribed besides blood anticoagulants such as warfarin or Dabragate are administered. These drugs have serious side effects. Surgical procedures such as cardiac ablations are done , still with questionable ‘permanent’ relief.. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium can give lasting relief from such arrhythmias without side effects. Normal life can be restored.
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium neutralizes the catecholamine and miraculously prevents heart attacks. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium is responsible for maintaining normal balance of sodium, potassium and calcium concentrations for normal heartbeat.
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium is also effective in ventricular arrhythmias(besides atrial), congestive heart failure when heart is weak and unable to empty after each beat.
TEC-LIFE is effective in cardiac health before and after cardiac surgery, including cardiac bypass grafting. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium helps prevent blood clots by preventing excessive calcium from triggering them. Atherosclerosis is prevented by this action of TEC-LIFE® Magnesium
3.DIABETES CONTROL
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium enhances insulin secretion by stimulation of the beta cells of pancreas, facilitates carbohydrate metabolism and helps insulin to transfer glucose into the cells thus reducing the glucose in blood. Tyrosine kinase is the enzyme that is used in the glucose transport into the cells. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium activates this enzyme. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium can activate seven out of the ten enzymes that are needed to metabolize glucose. Many a time diabetic patients are prescribed to take statins, because diabetes and elevated cholesterol are associated. This may not be a good idea. Statins further deplete the magnesium. What is needed is taking of TEC-LIFE® Magnesium which will help control diabetes besides lowering cholesterol
MENSTRUAL CRAMPS :
Premenstrual syndrome includes signs of anxiety, fluid retention, chocolate craving, mood swings, irritability, bloating, edema, headache, sore breasts and leg cramps. Taking TEC-LIFE® Magnesium can be a solution for this PMS. Vitamin B6 can be taken along with TEC-LIFE® Magnesium for good effects. Serum and cellular magnesium drop significantly during the premenstrual week. Chocolate cravings of women during this period is because chocolates have magnesium. But they also come with sugar and fat which are bad. Anti-depressive drugs can be safely avoided.
Estrogen and progesterone ,the female sex hormones, influence magnesium levels in the body. That is why TEC-LIFE® Magnesium makes targeted presence because of the excellent cell membrane entry and help mitigate the cerebral vessel spasms and reduced cerebral blood flow – thus helping to avoid PMS , migraine and possible stroke risk.
5.MIGRAINE
TEC-LIFE® Magnesium controls platelet aggregation, thus helping to avoid the thickened blood and tiny clots that can cause blood vessel spasms and the pain of migraine. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium relaxes the head and neck muscle tension that makes migraine worse. Vitamin B2 can be taken along with TEC-LIFE® Magnesium for synergistic effect. When magnesium level in brain low as in premenstrual period, it is unable to do its job to counteract the clotting action of calcium in the blood. Tiny blood clots can clog up the tiny brain blood vessels, leading to migraine. Further low brain magnesium promotes neurotransmitter hyperactivity and nerve excitation that can lead to headaches. Other conditions that trigger migraine due to low magnesium include pregnancy, alcohol- intake, use of diuretic drugs, stress etc. TEC-LIFE® Magnesium alleviates this migraine. It relaxes muscles and relaxes and dilates blood vessels reducing spasms . TEC-LIFE® Magnesium prevents build-up of lactic acid, which, along with muscle tension, can worsen migraines
Additional information
Dimensions
130 × 30 mm
Reviews
There are no reviews yet.
Be the first to review “Magnesium Orotate 30 capsules” Cancel reply
Your rating Rate… Perfect Good Average Not that bad Very poor
Your review *
Name *
Email *
Related products
Out of Stock
Magnesium 120 capsules
₹420.00
Read more
Quick Buy
₹420.00
Read more
Add to Wishlist
Product added! Browse Wishlist
The product is already in the wishlist! Browse Wishlist
Search Products
Search for:
Search
Products
Magnesium Taurate ₹650.00 ₹510.00
Magnesium Orotate 430 Mg -120No.s Veggie Capsules ₹510.00 ₹470.00
Calcium Orotate 30 Capsules - Veggie ₹170.00 ₹158.00
Product Categories
Calcium
Magnesium
Uncategorized
Top Rated Products
Magnesium Taurate ₹650.00 ₹510.00
Calcium Orotate 120 capsules ₹420.00
Calcium Orotate 30 capsules ₹140.00
Magnesium 120 capsules ₹420.00
Third Eye Chemicals
No.7 Jawahar Road, Peria Chokkikulam,
Madurai - 625002, India
sales@thirdeyechemicals.com
Social Links
Contact Us
Give us a Message
Copyright © 2018 Third Eye Chemicals All Rights Reserved | Website Designed by 3P WEB
Home
About us
FAQ
Products
Contact
Cart
International Customers