Reviewed Products Archives - Advice for Sufferers of Migraine Headaches - Migraineaid.com
Advice for Sufferers of Migraine Headaches – Migraineaid.com
Cures, Tips and Information: Fast Relief for Migraine Headaches & Pain
Search for:
Search
Reviewed Products
October 11, 2014	Preventative, Reviewed Products No Comments
Petadolex Can Help Prevent Migraine Headaches
October 10, 2014	Preventative, Reviewed Products No Comments
Migrelief Supplement Can Prevent Migraine headaches
The combination of Migrelief ‘s three main ingredients help ensure a greater benefit for your migraine headaches than any of the ingredients being taken alone.
Taking this Supplement twice daily can help with:
Preventing Recurring Migraine Headaches
If You Do Get a Migraine, the Pain is said to be Less Severe
Prevention and Severity: Supplements taken for preventative measures are not designed to be used during a migraine, but they are to be used in-between attacks to try to prevent or lessen the severity.
The Core Ingredients: Migrelief boasts a triple therapy solution: Its three key ingredients are Feverfew, Magnesium and Riboflavin. Each ingredient in Migrelief is specifically chosen for aiding migraine headaches; the three ingredients make Migrelief a powerful and superior over the counter product.
[wpzon spec=”1″ asin=”B0009EXNVA,” listing=”1″]
The Core Ingredients for two Migrelief Tablets are:
Riboflavin 400mg (Vitamin B2): Studies have found that take large doses of riboflavin (vitamin b2) can be effective on the duration, frequency, and sometimes the intensity of migraine headaches. Taking 400mg of riboflavin per day should significantly lessen attacks, and even how long a migraine attack lasts. Tests were performed for this supplement and found that participants suffered much fewer migraines when consuming riboflavin; the attacks went down from one attack per week to one attack every two weeks.
Magnesium 360mg: Normal adults require about 310-420mg of magnesium daily so running short on magnesium has been found to trigger migraines. There are a few things can make someone run low on magnesium which can lower your resistance or trigger a migraine, for example drinking alcohol, menstruation and even stress – so taking the correct amount of 360mg daily will assist with the fight against recurring attacks.
Tests have shown that fifty percent of people who have regular migraine headaches are short on magnesium…
Puracol 100mg (Feverfew whole leaf): Standard Feverfew a member of the sunflower family has been used for centuries in European folk medicine as a remedy for: headaches, migraines arthritis, and fevers.
Puracol™ Feverfew which is a trademark brand designed only for Migrelief which uses the whole Feverfew leaf.
Puracol, which only uses the whole Feverfew herb and is GMO free and having all its therapeutic constituents intact, Puracol is the highest potent Feverfew available on the market to date.
People ask How Long Does it Take to Start Working?
We have found that you should start to see benefits within three to six weeks when taking 2 (two) tablets daily.
Taking Migrelief Daily Could be One of the Best Ways to Treat Re-curing Migraine Headaches
Dosage instructions: Take two (2) easy to swallow tablets to be taken daily one with breakfast and one with your evening meal. 60 x gels per bottle is equal to one month supply
Side effects: Side effects are rare when taking this Supplement, but some people may experience mild gastrointestinal upsets or loose stools due to the magnesium content in this product.
Magnesium (citrate and oxide)
Riboflavin (Vitamin B2)
Puracol™ Feverfew (proprietary extract + whole leaf)
360mg/day
400mg/day
100mg/day
All three ingredients above are listed in the American Academy of Neurology Guidelines for Prevention.
October 10, 2014	Over the Counter, Reviewed Products No Comments
Migravent: Natural Migraine Relief
Harness the Power of Multiple Natural Compounds in Migravent.
Migravent: People who suffer from chronic headaches are found to lack many key nutrients these missing key nutrients are known paramount to trigger migraines.
Migravent supplement has four natural ingredients that will support a healthy neurological function.
Butterbur Extract: One of the main ingredients that gives Migravent its qualities is butterbur and adding 50mgs of it per capsule is certainly helpful for prevention of migraine headaches.
48 complementary other choices including anti-inflammatory and herbal/vitamin preparations were submitted to the American Academy of Neurology and the number 1 choice from all these recommendations was butterbur petasites, this dietary supplement came out top to help reduce the frequency as well as fighting the severity of migraine headaches.
Riboflavin (Vitamin B2): Studies have found that taking large doses of riboflavin (vitamin b2) can be effective on the duration, frequency, and sometimes the intensity of migraine headaches. Taking 400mg of riboflavin per day should significantly lessen attacks including how the time a migraine attack would last. Tests were performed for this supplement and found that participants suffered much fewer migraines when consuming riboflavin; the attacks went down from one attack per week to one attack every two weeks.
Magnesium: Normal adults require about 310-420mg of magnesium daily so running short on magnesium has been found to trigger migraines. There are a few things can make someone run low on magnesium which can lower your resistance or trigger a migraine, for example drinking alcohol, menstruation and even stress – so taking the correct amount of 360mg daily will assist with the fight against recurring attacks.
Tests have shown that fifty percent of people who have regular migraine headaches are short on magnesium!
Coenzyme Q10: Coenzyme Q10 is a proven supplement effective for supporting neurological function, and is a leading mechanism for energy production. Studies found that people who suffer form migraine headaches are impaired mitochondrial function resulting in a reduction in energy production; it has been proven by University in Philadelphia in Pennsylvania that CoQ10 enhances the production of energy. The great thing is that there are no side effects known for this natural migraine relief supplement.
[wpzon spec=”1″ asin=”B001HBT7PK,” listing=”1″]
Now you can live your life to its fullest. You should no longer miss work, or friends and family time.
A recent clinical study published by the American Academy of Neurology [Neurology. 2004 Dec 28 – Migravent] found that Migravents active ingredients will help support healthy neurological function. Migravent must be consistently taken on a daily basis to gain its effectiveness for migraines.
Migravent Results
Initial results for Migravent, should be seen in approximately two to four weeks as it starts to build up in your system for prevention of your migraines.
If you feel, it IS working: Then we recommend you continue taking Migravent daily for at least four to six months to reach full effectiveness.
If you feel, it is NOT working: If you are not getting any positive effects after a month’s treatment – then this product is possibly not for you and you should stop taking them.
Supplement Facts
(60 x capsules per bottle)
Butterbur (PA free) – 50mg per capsule
Riboflavin, Magnesium, Coenzyme Q10 – 292mg per capsule
60 x easy to swallow soft-gel (fish) capsules are formulated using a Fast Absorb Technology for maximum product effectiveness.
October 10, 2014	eBooks, Reviewed Products No Comments
Migraine Remedy – The Migraine Relief Online Guide
Migraine Remedy: The Migraine Relief Guide was founded by Elizabeth Hayden who is a fellow Migraine sufferer – she has gained a vast amount of personal experience when she was researching about migraines for her migraine remedy guide.
Elizabeth suffered from migraines for ten years or more and she can sympathise with the intense frustrating pain we go through with every migraine.
Luckily, she treats her recurring migraines of something from the past, thanks to her methods and excellent techniques learned over five years ago, which she now teaches in her migraine remedy guide which is named The Migraine Relief.
What Elizabeth actually found on her researching for her guide The Migraine Relief, that there was a huge amount of migraine remedies and information out there, which was, and still is very inaccurate!
Doctors Make money from Our Pain! 😥
She found that DOCTORS DO NOT UNDERSTAND OR DO NOT WANT TO UNDERSTAND OUR PAIN because they make money when we go visit them – so they just handover prescriptions as there solution to our problems.
This comprehensive Migraine Remedy teaches you:
How to prevent an approaching migraine
Identifying foods and stresses that can trigger your migraine headaches
Easy techniques on how you can control a migraine naturally
Avoiding and treating the side effects caused by a migraines
How you can reduce and relieve your pain as well as other symptoms
Plus a whole lot more…
The constant use of medications affects our health!
Everyday there are more new factors and triggers of migraines
Migraines are not as difficult to treat as you think
Our money is wasted on useless traditional medicine treatments
Non-treated migraines can lead to more serious health problems
Read more HERE about this migraine remedy: The Migraine Relief…
With trial and error came Elizabeth’s migraine remedy:
Elizabeth finally decided to take maters into her own hands: and developed comprehensive trial and error approach to ensure she came up with the best migraine remedy that really works for all migraines without the need of medications of any kind.
Migraine Remedy – The Migraine Relief Bonuses
The Migraine Relief is a comprehensive guide as it is, but it also comes with an amazing pack of goodies. These bonuses will complement the knowledge you will gain from this Guide – These bonuses consist of:
“The Migraine Journal” guide, which will show you how to create and use your own journal to track your daily progress.
“Delicious and Healthy Recipes for Migraine Sufferers” this is migraine remedy guide that contains a nice collection of some of the most delicious and healthy recipes for those suffering from migraines.
‘Pain Management Tips and Techniques’ this guide will help you manage your pain with very simple techniques.
The Migraine Remedy comes with an 8-Week Money Back Guarantee
You are also protected by 60 Days Money Back Guarantee so your purchase is 100% risk free and you are completely.
If you don’t like this e-product, or for any other reason, you just ask for your money back within 8 Weeks and that’s it – your purchase is refunded, no questions asked.
As you can see, you can’t lose here. Take it for a test drive, if you don’t like it just ask for your money back.
This Years Best Migraine Remedy – Buy the Migraine Relief Click Below
The Migraine remedy “The Migraine Relief is a down-loadable guide – you will have instant access when you have paid.
October 10, 2014	Migraine Support, Reviewed Products No Comments
Cervical Collar by Elastogel (Ideal for Migraine Headaches)
Can be re-heated or frozen repeatedly without damage
Stays Completely Flexible
Will Not Leak if Punctured
Can be Frozen, Microwaved, and even Oven Cooked
Washable Lycra cover for great heat/cold transferal
This Neck Wrap is Latex Free
The Elasto-Gel Cervical Collar: is a flexible moist heat therapy collar, or can also be a soothing cold therapy product, giving excellent hot or cold relief for minor joint and muscular aches and pains.
It will treat for up-to 40 minutes: The Elastogel cervical collar will treat your aches and pains whether hot or cold for approximately 40 minutes and will NOT even leak if punctured, it can be held in place by a Velcro type hook and loop at the front or the collar, which will allow people to move about without it falling off.
Elasto gel cervical Collar
Elasto-Gel Cervical Collar 20″x10″ 3/8 In. Thick – Lycra Cover #CC102
$34.34
The Elasto-Gel Cervical Collar Wrap Can Be Heated, Refrigerated, or Frozen!
Find the Best Deal at Amazon for this Gel Collar – Click here
Heat Therapy (FAST 60 second microwave way): The Elastogel cervical collar can be microwaved for 30-60 seconds to give a continuous heat treatment, then this collar should start to feel worm to the touch, which means it is ready for use.
Heat Therapy (SLOW oven 15 minutes way): The collar can also be heated in a conventional oven for up-to 15 minutes and should be placed on a baking tray and gently heated for 10-15 minutes.
Cold Therapy (You can store it in your freezer): This cervical collar can be refrigerated, which is usually for a minimum of 2 hours and can also be stored in the freezer compartment indefinitely until you actually require it, the Elastogel collar will stay flexible and ready to use even if it is stored at -20°F
Elasto-Gel Cervical Collar is a Patented Formula from USA:
The Elast-ogel cervical collar is made with Elasto-gel this gel is a durable patented formula that gives the collar exceptional heat or hold transferring properties it will remain usable if punctured, and will not cause any problems to your skin or nerves while being used.
Find the Best Deal at Amazon for this Gel Collar – Click here
October 10, 2014	None Over the Counter, Reviewed Products No Comments
Migard 2.5 mg Tablets for Migraine Headaches
MIGARD – Frovatriptan Succinate Monohydrate
My personal review by David Allen
First off Migard is not one of those casual drugs that can be taken daily or used to prevent migraine headaches for appearing like Petadolex or Paracetamol for light pain, this drug is to be taken when you feel the signs of a migraine coming on or if have a migraine headache (not a normal headache).
It is not a very quick acting drug
Migard is not a quick acting drug when you first take it, for me it can start to work between (1) one – (4) four hours, for me it’s is normally around (3) three hours on average.
The wait is worth it though.
Once Migard starts getting to work you can feel your migraine easing off every Minuit that passes bye,
Taking this drug has its down-sides
Taking Migard isn’t an easy drug to take, but it gets better once you get used to taking over time, as it starts to work you can feel it running through body, it’s hard to put into words, but you feel sensitivity in parts of your body like the back of your mouth, your skin feels sensitive under worm or hot water, when you are having a shower the water droplets can feel like little pin pricks. Plus you can sometimes feel a bit sluggish over the rest of the day but not every time.
Migard does not always stopped every migraine you may have some migraine just want to come on whatever you take, it will stop or relieve about 95% of my migraine headaches
Migard come in a box of six (6) tablets and your GP should supply you with three boxes on prescription this will make (18) eighteen tablets which does not go far if you have a run of returning migraines.
The good points for taking Migard
The good points are that this drug works and works very effectively indeed. Once this drug is in your system and working you will be able to get on with the rest of the day. For me this is the only drug for migraine headaches that works and that has been the main part of my migraine drugs cabinet for about (8) eight years.
Migard is one of the main drugs that have given me loads of my life back from wasted days in bed with incredible pain and with my head down the toilet being sick!
The best ways to take this drug
Take a tablet and then have a sleep if possible
Take as soon as you feel a migraine coming on.
Try not taking one for a normal headache (you will be wasting your small supply)
You can take a tablet if you have a full migraine (it just takes longer to get rid of)
If you want any more information that I may have missed of this review then please contact me and I will get back to you as soon as I possibly can.
A last thought from me
In my view taking Migard for your migraine headaches out ways any side affects you may have with this drug!
Official Drug Overview
Migard is to be used for controlling, and preventing migraine headaches.
It has been found that when someone has a migraine attack, there blood vessels in there brain are becoming enlarged, this enlargement is the thing that is caucusing their pain. Migard (Frovatriptan) is designed to constrict the enlarged blood vessels which should stop a migraine.
Migard is not a drug for preventing a migraine appearing, this is what paracetamol or ibruprofen and alternative treatments are for. Migard is designed for taking as soon as you feel a migraine coming on, or even when you actually have a migraine.
Is Migard suitable for You to take
Migard is not suitable for everyone to take and may not be prescribed if you have any of the following:
If you have circulation issues
If you have had a heart attack or stroke
If you have high blood pressure or liver problems
If you are 65 or older
If you have certain types of migraines
You may not get prescribed if you are under 18 years old
October 10, 2014	Over the Counter, Reviewed Products No Comments
Medi-Temp: Hot and Cold Therapy Patch
Hot and Cold Therapy Pad (by Medi-Temp)
Re-usable, and will last for years
For a hot and cold therapy treatment
Fully Washable
Hypoallergenic
Stays flexible even when cold
Fully adjustable one size will fit all
Hot and Cold Therapy is one of the world renowned and recognized medical treatments for every day minor injuries including cluster and migraine headaches.
The Medi-Temp Therapy pad can be heated, or cooled in many ways; the pad can be placed in the freezer for several hours, heated on a stove, or even micro waved.
Heat Therapy: used for people with persistent injuries like muscles spasms, cramps, stiffness, and minor problems like muscle and joint pains.
Cold Therapy: used for people with acute injuries happening within the 1st 72 hours following minor injuries, swelling, sprains, and strains.
Medi Pad
Medi-Temp Head-Neck Hot/Cold Therapy Pad $15.95
Get the Best Deal for a Medi-Pad at Amazon – Click here
Cold Therapy Pads (Well-Patch)
For a migraine headache or a fever
Cold therapy treatment only
Its drug free and safe to use
Can treat for up-to 8 hours
Suitable for adults and children
Convenient and portable
Recommended by Doctors
Cold Therapy: The Well-Patch is a DISPOSABLE cooling treatment for people of ALL AGES including children, this superb topical pain relief patch does not need to be refrigerated plus the unused patches can be stored at room temperature. Although the well patch can be refrigerated (not to be frozen) before use to give extra cooling.
Each well-patch pad is soft and flexible and will stick into place without moving, which is ideal for people with migraine headaches because we have a habit of moving about trying to find a comfortable resting spot.
The Well patch is DRUG FREE so you can also use your other medications at the same time, which is an added bonus for all migraine headache sufferers and can supply up-to eight hour of pain relief.
Easy to use: The patch is so easy to use; you just peal of the protective film from one side of the patch then stick it to your head or body. The great thing is that the well patch does not leave any residue when it has been removed!
Get the Best Deal for a Medi-Pad at Amazon – Click here
October 9, 2014	Migraine Support, Reviewed Products No Comments
Bed of Nails Pillow for Migraine Headaches – Review
Home Page
Preventative
Petadolex
Migrelief
Migravent
Vitamin B2
Over The Counter Pain Relief
Migralex
Hot and Cold Therapy
Over the Counter Pain Killers
Migraitan 50mg
Doloex
Migraine Support
Hot & Cold Cervical Heat Collar
Bed of Nails Pillow
Medics
Mobile Medic – Pain Relief for Migraine Headaches & Neck Pain
NONE Over the Counter
Migard – Frovatriptan Succinate Monohydrate
Videos
Migraine Pathophysiology
How to Do Face & Head Shiatsu Massages
Acupuncture for Migraines and Headaches
Botox for Migraines and Chronic Headaches
Books and eBooks
The Migraine Relief – A comprehensive guide on its own, plus it also comes with an amazing pack of goodies
Headache eBook – FREE eBook Download
The migraine Solution – If you want to live a balanced lifestyle with minimal change effects on your current lifestyle, then a formulated success plan is ready for you. Grab your copy of The Migraine Solution today
Policys
FTC Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
SiteMap
Powered by Socrates
Articles
Reviewed Products
YouTube Videos
Over the Counter
Preventative
Migraine Support
None Over the Counter
eBooks