Achilles Tendon Rupture Treatment Peterborough UK | Ankle Surgeon
Skip to Main content | Accessibility
Text Size:
A A A
Contrast:
01733 842309
01733 842309
Book an Appointment
Home
My Practice
Mr Jim Carmichael
Peterborough and Stamford Orthopaedic
Staff
Practice location
Patient Info
Conditions & Procedures
Knee
Foot & Ankle
Sports Medicine
Arthroscopic Surgery
Patient Testimonials
What’s new
Preparing for Surgery & Procedure
Useful Links
Patient Education Videos
Services
Appointments
General Appointment
FAQs
Contact
foot &AMP; ankle
Knee Treatments
Sports Medicine
Arthroscopic Surgery
Home / Patient Info / Conditions & Procedures / Foot & Ankle / Achilles Tendon Rupture
Achilles Tendon Rupture
Achilles tendon is a strong fibrous cord present behind the ankle that connects the calf muscles to the heel bone. It is used when you walk, run and jump. The Achilles tendon ruptures most often in athletes participating in sports that involve running, pivoting and jumping. Recreational sports that may cause Achilles rupture include tennis, football, basketball and gymnastics.
When the Achilles tendon ruptures you will experience severe pain in the back of your leg above your heel, swelling, stiffness, and difficulty to stand on tiptoe and push the leg when walking. A popping or snapping sound may be heard when the injury occurs. Your doctor diagnoses the rupture based on symptoms, history of the injury and physical examination. Your doctor may also feel a gap or depression in the tendon, just above heel bone. Your doctor will gently squeeze the calf muscles. If the Achilles tendon is intact, there will be flexion movement of the foot, if it is ruptured, there will be no movement observed.
Achilles tendon rupture is treated using non-surgical method or surgical method. Non-surgical treatment involves wearing a cast or special brace which lifts your heel, allowing the tendon to heal. Surgical procedure involves opening the skin and suturing the torn tendon together. Surgery helps to decrease the recurrence of the Achilles tendon in comparison to the non-surgical treatment. With either treatment, physical therapy is recommended to improve the strength and flexibility of leg muscles and the Achilles tendon.
To help prevent an Achilles tendon injury, it is a good practice to perform stretching and warm-up exercises before participating in any exercises or sports activities. Gradually increase the intensity and length of time of activity. Muscle conditioning may help to strengthen the muscles in the body.
Mr Jim Carmichael
Consultant in Foot, Ankle and Knee Surgeon
View Profile
Our Services
Foot &AMP; Ankle
Knee Treatments
Sports Medicine
Arthroscopic Surgery
Patient Resources
Patient Education Videos
Office Location
Fees for Outpatient Appointments
&COPY; Mr. Jim Carmichael, Foot, Ankle and Knee Surgeon, Peterborough and Stamford Orthopaedics
Home
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Feedback
Tell a Friend
Contact