6 FERMENTED FOODS THAT AID DIGESTION AND IMPROVE HEALTH
Skip to content
Life changer for good
Menu
HOME
SERVICES
HEALTH
BEAUTY
PRODUCTS
Health Products
Beauty Products
Other Products
EVENTS
GALLERY
SHOP NOW
JOIN US NOW
CONTACT US
Health, health tips
6 FERMENTED FOODS THAT AID DIGESTION AND IMPROVE HEALTH
Posted by tovicgold on April 1, 2019 April 1, 2019
Fermentation is a process that involves the breakdown of sugars by bacteria and yeast.
Not only does this help enhance the preservation of foods, but eating fermented foods can also boost the number of beneficial bacteria, or probiotics, found in your gut.
Probiotics have been associated with a variety of health benefits, including improved digestion, better immunity and even increased weight loss.
This article looks at 6 fermented foods that have been shown to improve health and aid digestion.
8. Probiotic Yogurt
Yogurt is produced from milk that has been fermented, most commonly with lactic acid bacteria.
It is high in many important nutrients, including calcium, potassium, phosphorus, riboflavin and vitamin B12.
Yogurt has also been associated with a wide variety of health benefits.
One review of 14 studies showed that fermented milk products like probiotic yogurt could help reduce blood pressure, especially in those with high blood pressure.
Sauerkraut
Sauerkraut is a popular condiment consisting of shredded cabbage that has been fermented by lactic acid bacteria. It is low in calories but contains plenty of fiber, vitamin C and vitamin K.
It also contains a good amount of lutein and zeaxanthin, two antioxidants that help promote eye health and reduce the risk of eye disease.
The antioxidant content of sauerkraut may also have promising effects on cancer prevention.
Kimchi
Kimchi is a popular Korean side dish that is usually made from fermented cabbage, although it can also be made from other fermented vegetables like radishes.
It boasts an extensive array of health benefits and may be especially effective when it comes to lowering cholesterol and reducing insulin resistance.
Insulin is responsible for transporting glucose from the blood to the tissues. When you sustain high levels of insulin for long periods, your body stops responding to it normally, resulting in high blood sugar and insulin resistance.
Kombucha
Kombucha is a fermented tea that is fizzy, tart and flavorful. It is made from either black or green tea and contains their potent health-promoting properties.
Animal studies show that drinking kombucha could help prevent liver toxicity and damage caused by exposure to harmful chemicals.
Tempeh
Tempeh is made from fermented soybeans that have been pressed into a compact cake.
This high-protein meat substitute is firm but chewy and can be baked, steamed or sautéed before being added to dishes.
In addition to its impressive probiotic content, tempeh is rich in many nutrients that may better your health. For example, soy protein has been shown to reduce certain risk factors for heart disease.
Natto
Natto is a staple probiotic food in traditional Japanese cuisine and, like tempeh, made from fermented soybeans.
It contains a good amount of fiber, providing 5 grams per 3.5-ounce (100-gram) serving.
Fiber may help support digestive health. It moves through the body undigested, adding bulk to stool to help promote regularity and alleviate constipation .
Natto is also high in vitamin K, an important nutrient that’s involved in the metabolism of calcium and plays a major role in bone health. In one study of 944 women, natto intake was associated with reduced bone loss in those who were postmenopausal.
Fermentation can help increase both the shelf life and health benefits of many different foods.
The probiotics found in fermented foods have been associated with improvements in digestion, immunity, weight loss and more.
In addition to containing these beneficial probiotics, fermented foods can positively impact many other aspects of health and are an excellent addition to your diet.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pinterest
More
Email
WhatsApp
Skype
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Post navigation
Previous Post FACTS MEN DON’T KNOW ABOUT SHAVING
Next Post EXPERT REVEAL COMMON ISSUES COUPLES ENCOUNTER AND HOW TO WORK THROUGH THEM
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Search for:
Recent Posts
6 BENEFITS OF YOGA THAT ARE SUPPORTED BY SCIENCE
VULVODYNIA: GENITAL PAIN IN WOMEN
5 WAYS TO KEEP YOUR HAIR DETOX GOING STRONG
6 WAYS TO EAT HEALTHY ON A TIGHT BUDGET
INFERTILITY: 6 THINGS WOMEN NEED TO KNOW ABOUT IVF
Get The Opportunity To Become a Hero
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive fabulous tips on how to be better than you've always imagined.
I Want The Opportunity
COMPANY INFO
8 Impressive Close, Off Dosunmu Road, Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria
+234-806-000-2990
Mon-Thur | 8:00 am - 6:00 pm
Fri | 8:00 am - 4:00 pm
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: