Migraine Guidelines Focus on Prevention - MedicineNet
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/migraine center/ migraine a-z list/ migraine guidelines focus on prevention article
Migraine Guidelines Focus on Prevention
Key Medications Listed to Help Prevent Migraine Headaches
By Denise Mann
WebMD Health News
Latest Migraine News
Dry Eye and Migraines Might Be Linked: Study
Migraine Silver Lining Lowered Risk for Diabetes
Health Tip: Understanding Migraines
Health Tip: Understanding Migraines
FDA Approves Third of New Migraine Drugs
Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters!
Reviewed by Brunilda Nazario, MD
April 23, 2012 -- New guidelines may help people with frequent migraine headaches get their lives back on track.
The migraine prevention guidelines will be presented at the American Academy of Neurology's annual meeting in New Orleans and published simultaneously in the journal Neurology.
About 36 million people in the U.S. have migraine headaches, according to the Migraine Research Foundation. Migraines are painful, often disabling headaches that may be accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to light.
For some, migraines are few and far between and respond well to available treatments. Others experience more frequent headaches that interfere with their life and don't respond well to treatments. The latter group may be candidates for the preventive treatments outlined in the guidelines. Preventive treatments usually are taken every day to prevent attacks from occurring as often and to lessen their severity and duration when they do occur.
About 38% of people with migraine headaches could benefit from prevention, but less than a third of them use them, says guideline author Stephen D. Silberstein, MD, of Jefferson Headache Center at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, in a news release. Researchers analyzed studies on migraine prevention treatments to determine which are or are not effective.
New Migraine Guidelines Focus on Headache Prevention
According to the new guidelines, effective migraine preventive treatments include:
The anti-seizure drugs Depacon (valproate sodium), Depakote (divalproex sodium), and Topamax (topiramate)
The blood pressure medications metoprolol, propranolol, and timolol
The anti-seizure drug Lamictal (lamotrigine) is not effective in preventing migraine, the guidelines state.
Certain nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) and complementary therapies can also help prevent migraine headache. These include:
Petasites, an herb also known as butterbur
NSAIDs including fenoprofen, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, naproxen, and naproxen sodium
Histamine shots, which are a common allergy/asthma treatment
Magnesium, a mineral
MIG-99, an herb also known as feverfew
Riboflavin or vitamin B12
There is not enough evidence to suggest a role for aspirin or the NSAID indomethacin as way to stave off migraine headache.
Do You Need Migraine Prevention Treatment?
Mark W. Green, MD, says that anyone who has six or more migraine attacks a month or someone who has fewer migraines that don't respond to treatments is a potential candidate. Green is the director of the Center for Headache and Pain Medicine and professor of neurology and anesthesiology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City.
"See a headache specialist if your headaches are frequent, disabling, and/or you are not doing well with other treatments," he says.
Robert Duarte, MD, is the director of the Pain Center at the Cushing Neuroscience Institute of the North Shore-LIJ Health System in Manhasset, N.Y. He says many people hesitate to take medications because they want to avoid the side effects that come with taking medication every day. "Taking preventive migraine medication that has been shown to reduce frequency and intensity of headaches will result in less dysfunction," he says. "These benefits often outweigh any risks."
That is not the only reason, says Richard B. Lipton, MD. He is the director of the Montefiore Headache Center in New York City. "Many people with migraine don't think of it as a treatable medical disorder," he says. "They don't consult doctors and don't know that what they have is a migraine problem."
Others don't think that they will benefit from prevention. That said, not all people with migraine headache need to take preventive treatments.
If you have, or think you have, migraine headaches, the first step is to see a specialist and get a proper diagnosis, Lipton says. Treatment will depend on the frequency and severity of your headaches.
"Some people have one migraine a month, take over-the-counter medication, and can return to their usual activities," he says. "Others might have 10 headache days a month that are disabling on five or six days, and they almost certainly need prevention and effective treatments for when they do get a headache."
Learning what triggers your migraine headache and taking steps to avoid those triggers also helps, he says.
Buyer Beware of Butterbur
The new guidelines support the use of the herb butterbur. But if the herb is not extracted properly then the drug isn't safe, Lipton says. Choose a well-known brand, and follow the dosing instructions on the label.
Some butterbur products may contain pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs). PAs can damage the liver, lungs, and blood circulation, and possibly cause cancer. Butterbur products that contain PAs are unsafe when taken by mouth.
Exactly how butterbur may stave off migraine headache is not clear, but it may have anti-inflammatory properties like NSAIDs.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR NEXT NEWS ARTICLE
SOURCES: Richard B. Lipton, MD, director, Montefiore Headache Center, New York City. Mark W. Green, MD, director, Center for Headache and Pain Medicine, professor of neurology and anesthesiology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York City. Migraine Research Foundation. Holland, S. Neurology, 2012. Silbersyein, S. Neurology, 2012.
©2012 WebMD, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
From
Migraines and Headaches Resources
Basics to Help Prevent Migraines
Managing Opioids
What Are Chronic Migraines?
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Related Article
Migraine or Headache? Migraine Symptoms, Triggers, Treatment
What does a migraine feel like? Learn to spot migraine symptoms early, how to identify your triggers, and get more information on migraine medications and treatments.
Read more: Migraine or Headache? Migraine Symptoms, Triggers, Treatment
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth