The Brain and My Microbiome - BetterBrainBetterLife
HOME
BRAIN TRAINING
OVERVIEW
DEVICES & PROGRAMS
BRAIN TRAINING GAMES
MIND TRAINING
NOTES & NEWS
BOOKS
ABOUT
FAQS
CONTACT
Notes, News and Views
The most exciting frontier in human knowledge right now is the human brain. We focus on sharing research that has a practical bent: food, exercise, sleep, memory improvement, supplements and so on. We also cover personal experiences with brain and mind training. Occasional guest writers share their perspectives on brain enhancement and scientific discovery. Enjoy!
Homocysteine and B Vitamins: Significant Help for a Shrinking Brain
6/5/2013
0 Comments
By Paddy Kamen, Publisher, BetterBrainBetterLife.com
If you think your brain might be shrinking (due to aging, poor memory, or signs of dementia) you’ll want to know about the relationship between homocysteine and B vitamins.
Researchers at the University of Oxford recently published study results that show significantly reduced brain atrophy in pre-dementia patients (those with Mild Cognitive Impairment) as a result of B vitamin supplementation.
This is the second such study from this team. The first, published in 2010, showed that a two-year period of supplementation with B vitamins slowed overall brain shrinkage. That study also showed an interaction between the B vitamin regimen and homocysteine levels.
Homocysteine is an amino acid that, when evident in high levels in blood plasma, has been linked to shrinkage in specific areas of the brain such as the amygdala and hippocampus, as well as faster overall brain shrinkage.
According to the National Institutes of Health, high homocysteine levels may double the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease (AD). This was proven in a long-running study in which homocysteine levels were measured in a large population over several years. The NIH report from 2002 points out: “The relationship between AD and the amino acid homocysteine is of particular interest because blood levels of homocysteine can be reduced, for example, by increasing intake of folic acid (or folate) and vitamins B6 and B12. The therapeutic use of these compounds is being explored as scientists try to understand better homocysteine’s role in AD or other types of dementia, as well as its possible link to various forms of heart disease.”
The most recent research from the Oxford team examined whether the vitamins were effective in reducing gray matter shrinkage in brain regions directly related to the degenerative processes of AD. The answer was a resounding yes: “In the B vitamin treated group the fast atrophy of the gray matter was almost completely prevented. B vitamins slowed the rate by almost 90 percent compared with placebo,” says A. David Smith, professor emeritus of pharmacology, and leader of the Oxford research team.
The research also looked at atrophy rates in specific brain regions associated with AD. They found dramatic reduction of atrophy in the B vitamin group, with a seven-fold reduction in the atrophy of the medial temporal lobe and other specific regions associated with AD.
B vitamin supplementation also returned homocysteine levels to normal in those subjects for whom it was high at the beginning of the study.
What constitutes a high homocycteine level? In the Oxford study, levels over 11umol/L were considered high. A clinic that I personally attend cites 10 umol/L as the magic number. Smith told BetterBrainBetterLife: “We defined the cut-off for this study as the median value (11) in the population being studied so that we could get the maximum number of subjects in each group. What is defined as ‘high’ will depend upon age and other circumstances. 10 is not a bad cut-off.”
And what was in the B vitamin regimen? Folic acid 0.8 mg, vitamin B6 20 mg, and vitamin B12 0.5 mg. That’s it!
The Oxford team is calling for further research into the relationship between homocysteine and B vitamin supplementation, with an eye to reducing the incidence of dementia. Smith cautions, however, that there is no proof that B vitamins prevent cognitive decline in those with AD: “The evidence is rather that they do not. A trial by Aisen showed that high-dose B vitamins did not slow cognitive decline in patients with moderately severe AD, although it appeared to in those with mild AD.”
If you’re over 50 or at risk of dementia it might be wise to have your homocysteine levels checked, and perhaps to take a B vitamin supplement in the same proportions as those used in this study. Such supplements could be a relatively inexpensive way to help protect your brain from the ravages of dementia. It’s not a cure, but it could help.
Dr. Smith, being the circumspect scientist that he is, politely refused to comment on whether he finds the study results persuasive enough to motivate him personally to take B vitamin supplements. Seeing as I, the writer, am not a scientist, and given that I have high homocysteine levels, plus a mother with dementia, I am indeed doing so.
0 Comments
Your comment will be posted after it is approved.
Leave a Reply.
Subjects
All
Addiction
Alcohol
Alzheimer's Disease
Anorexia
Anxiety
Appetite Control
Autism
Betterbrainbetterlife.com
Blue Light
Body Work
Brain Atrophy
Brain Death
Brain Disease
Brain Enhancement
Brain Exercise
Brain Games
Brain Health
Brain Images
Brain Injury
Brain Research
Brain Shrinkage
Brain Size
Brain Training
Brain Volume
Brigham And Women's Hospital
Buck Institute For Aging
B Vitamins
Children's Brain Health
Cognition
Concussion
Consciousness
Creativity
Deep Brain Stimulation
Dementia
Digestion
Eating Disorders
EEG
Emotions
Equanimity
E-Readers
Feldenkrais
Food For The Brain
Glial Cells
Grey Matter
Grief
Gut
Head Injury
Hearing Loss
Homocysteine
Hot Flashes
Improve Memory
Lauren Sergio
Magnetic Stimulation
Marvin Berman
McGill University
Meditation
Melatonin
Memory
Menopause
Men's Brains
Microbes
Microbiome
Mindfulness
Mindfulness Meditation
Mind Training
Mini-stroke
Mirror Neurons
Mood
Mood Disorders
Neurology
Neuropsychology
Open Focus
Paddy Kamen
PTSD
Quietmind Associates
Relaxation
Rob Ford’s Brain
Schizophrenia
Seniors
Shinzen Young
Sleep
Stress
Stroke
Substitute Decision Makers
Supplements
Teenagers
TMS
Turmeric
Video Games
Vitamin Deficiency
Vitamin Supplements
Weight Control
White Matter
Women's Brains
Women's Health
York University
Sign Up
Join Our Mailing List
Promise: Just interesting stuff
and not too often!
© betterbrainbetterlife.com 2016. We respect your privacy. BetterBrainBetterLife will not share your email address with third parties.
Photo used under Creative Commons from Hey Paul Studios