Suggest treatment for recurrent migraine headaches
Are you a Doctor?
Login
Register
Facebook
Twitter
Toggle navigation MENU
My Dashboard
My Transactions
Services
Testimonials
Doctors
Topics
Blog
Ask a Doctor Now 188 Doctors Online
search
Register for a New Account as a
×
User
Doctor
Your Name :
Your e-mail :
Password :
Confirm Password :
Your information is secure
I Agree to Terms & Conditions
Remember me
Register Already registered? Login
Your Name :
Your e-mail :
Continue Already registered? Login
Sign-in to HealthcareMagic
×
Your e-mail :
Password :
Remember me
Forgot password?
By proceeding further you accept the Terms and Conditions
Login
OR
Sign in with Google
Don't have account? Register
Get your health question answered instantly from our pool of 18000+ doctors from over 80 specialties
Write your health question
Choose a specialty
Pay & get an answer
188 Doctors Online
Ask a Doctor Now
MD
Dr. Andrew Rynne
Family Physician
Exp 50 years
I will be looking into your question and guiding you through the process. Please write your question below.
A Doctor will be with you shortly
Hi, I am Dr. A.S. Keerthi (Neurologist). I will be looking into your question and guiding you through the process. Please write your question below.
Premium Questions Home Ask a Neurologist
Suggest treatment for recurrent migraine headaches
Answered by
Dr. Olsi Taka
Neurologist
Practicing since :2004
Answered : 3631 Questions
Ask me a question
Posted on Mon, 26 Oct 2015 in Headache and Migraines
224317
Question: Hi, I am a registered nurse going back to school and I am plagued with migraines every week. Immutrex works but I think I need to take something else HOWEVER, I need to be mentally focused in order to do well in my studies. Any alternatives besides Immutrex ?
Answered by Dr. Olsi Taka 52 minutes later
Brief Answer:
Read below.
Detailed Answer:
I read your question carefully and I understand your concern.
There are two types of treatment for migraine, treatment for the acute attack and preventive treatment which aims to reduce the frequency of attacks in the long term not alleviate the acute pain.
Treatment for the attacks may be nsaid like Ibuprofen, antiemetics or triptans like Imitrex (sumatriptan). Triptans are the most effective drug for acute attacks so I wouldn't change it.
What must be done in your case is pay attention to prevention. It is unclear whether you're taking anything for that purpose now, you have in the past, drugs like elavil (amitriptyline) and propranolol are aimed at that and if they were effective may be resumed. Now as for the effect on central nervous system you must understand that since they all are used for a nervous system condition they all have some potential for side effects on nervous system (not necessarily though). So that can't be taken completely out of the picture. If Elavil or propranolol weren't effective or had many side effects the remaining first choice option remain anticonvulsant like topiramate or valproic acid, but as I said they might affect your central nervous system. Another choice but a second choice, less likely to be effective, one are antihypertensives. I have had great experiences with flunnarizine, a calcium channel blocker in my patients, but I am not sure it's present in the US where you live. Other antihypertensives to be considered are verapamil or candesartan.
A last option recommended when at least three drugs fail is botulinum toxin injections which would perhaps suit your concern of not being affected in your study.
I remain at your disposal for further questions.
Above answer was peer-reviewed by : Dr. Chakravarthy Mazumdar
The User accepted the expert's answer
Ask a Neurologist
Share on
Question is related to
Drug/Medication Calcium channel blocker, Propranolol, Valproic acid, Amitriptyline
Medical Topics Central nervous system
Recent questions on Amitriptyline
Need insight on 240 pro-red syrup
MD
My bottle of 240 pro-red syrup is used for a cough. What is the shelf life, and what does the 240 stand for. The only medicene I can find that it list that it should not be mixed with is amitriptyline. I take Perphenazine/amitriptyline 2-25 at bedtime. Is this the same thing?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
What to do when migraine occurs again?
MD
I am seeing a neurologist. I have migraine headaches,dizziness ,loss of cognitive skills , memory loss.I have had mri,mra,ct,halter monitor,and cognitive learning classes by a speech pathologist/therapist.I was on topamax 3times a day which gave me more migraines and throwing up.i am now on elavil .I am afraid to drive or go back to work because anything could happen at anytime.I am 57 yrs old 185 lbs at 5 6.this all started in October when I was walking my dog at night and I started to see flashing lights. I am now starting to have migraines again now what do I take or tests can I take.Could it be epilepsy or a tumor?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
How long does it take to develop left atrial abnormality?
MD
how long does it take to develop left atrial abnormality?, which is what patient s initial evaluation EKG showed. do EKG, with other labwork, to determine any underlying medical issues. can it be caused by a low dose of elavil after only 1.5 weeks?, don t believe it to be the elavil but want to make sure secondary to its known cardiac side effects. patient also history of chronic pain and long history prescribed opiates for that pain, and long history of insomnia
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
What causes memory problems and eye sensitivity while taking cipralex and elavil?
MD
I have had these meds added to the mix within the last year, Cipralex 20mg, Elavil 75mg, gabapentin 900mg TID. I have been having problems with my memory , concentration, eye sensitivity to light. My question is are can any of these meds be causing these problems?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
What causes disorientation and anxiety with Hashimoto's disease?
MD
why do I get disoriented feeling with my anxiety? I have anxiety with my Hashimoto's but here lately I don't feel like I'm here at all since I've got off the coladapin. I get really confused don't feel like myself really disoriented at times I...
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Suggest treatment for degenerative disc disease
MD
I have a problem between L2-3 . disc is worn out. I stretch all the time , have a inversion table. I am a bit overweigh. I'm a metal fabricator and lift all the time. I were weigh belts all the time when working or doing anything at home to...
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Suggest treatment for giddiness, severe headache, panic attacks, depression and lack of sleep
MD
hi, my wife is 48 years old and is a housewife. no children at home. for past 1 week she is facing major giddiness, severe headache , panic attack , depression and lack of sleep. i am her husband, travelling mostly for work. she was treated with...
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
People also viewed
Migraine headaches treatment
What treatment is suggested for migraine headache
Treatment and cure for migraine headache
Chronic migraine headaches treatment
Treatment and cure for recurrent migraine headache
All the information, content and live chat provided on the site is intended to be for informational purposes only, and not a substitute for professional or medical advice. You should always speak with your doctor before you follow anything that you read on this website. Any health question asked on this site will be visible to the people who browse this site. Hence, the user assumes the responsibility not to divulge any personally identifiable information in the question. Use of this site is subject to our Terms & Conditions
Ask a Doctor Online
Ask a Specialist
Health Questions and Answers
Health Resources
Browse Health Indexes
Recently Updated Questions
Contact us
FAQs
In the News
Advertise with us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap