The Side Effects of Evening Primrose Oil | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
The Side Effects of Evening Primrose Oil
Shelley Moore
About the Author:
Shelley Moore
Shelley Moore is a journalist and award-winning short-story writer. She specializes in writing about personal development, health, careers and personal finance. Moore has been published in "Family Circle" magazine and the "Milwaukee Sentinel" newspaper, along with numerous other national and regional magazines, daily and weekly newspapers and corporate publications. She has a Bachelor of Science in psychology.
View Full Profile
Derived from seeds of the plant Oenothera biennis, evening primrose oil is a traditional herbal memory for several health conditions. The oil is rich in the essential omega-6 fatty acid gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), a substance that decreases inflammation in the body, as explained by the University of Maryland Medical Center (UMMC). Evening primrose oil may be beneficial for treating eczema and other skin conditions, premenstrual syndrome, menopausal symptoms and diabetic neuropathy. Several side effects are possible.
A bottle of evening primrose oil with fresh primroses on a ceramic tray. (Image: Xiebiyun/iStock/Getty Images)
Minor Side Effects
Some people experience minor side effects when taking evening primrose oil. As listed by the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), these effects include headaches, abdominal pain, nausea and loose stools. The UMMC notes that people may experience stomach pain and loose stools when evening primrose oil dosage is too high.
Seizures
GLA supplements can increase the risk of seizures in people with a seizure disorder, according to the UMMC, and in patients taking phenothiazine antipsychotic drugs. Taking evening primrose oil also can raise the risk of seizures in patients undergoing anesthesia. The UMMC advises anyone scheduled for surgery requiring general anesthesia to stop consuming evening primrose oil at least two weeks beforehand.
Increased Bleeding
Evening primrose oil, like other omega-6 fatty acid supplements, may increase the risk of abnormal bleeding. People with a bleeding disorder or taking medications or herbs with blood-thinning effects should be cautious about taking evening primrose oil, according to the UMMC. These blood-thinning substances include warfarin, heparin and nonsteroidal drugs such as aspirin and ibuprofen, as well as the herb ginkgo biloba.
Pregnancy Considerations
Pregnant women should not take evening primrose oil, according to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The center cites a report of an infant born with bleeding under the skin surface due to broken capillaries after the mother had taken evening primrose oil one week before childbirth.
Allergic Reaction
Some people may experience a hypersensitive or allergic reaction to evening primrose, although this is uncommon, according to the NIH. People hypersensitive to other plants in the Onagraceae family or to GLA are more likely to have a reaction to this substance. Signs of an allergic reaction include a rash or hives, facial or mouth swelling, and difficulty breathing. An allergic reaction to evening primrose oil should be considered a medical emergency. A person who is allergic to evening primrose oil also may develop skin irritation when using the oil topically.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
NIH: Evening Primrose Oil
UMMC: Evening Primrose Oil
MSKCC: Evening Primrose Oil
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Side Effects of Frankincense Oil
2
Eucalyptus Oil Side Effects
3
Side Effects of Clove Oil
4
The Side Effects of Eucalyptus Lavender Oil
5
Side Effects of Starflower Oil
6
Side Effects of a Melatonin Overdose
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.