Music therapy can reduce symptoms of depression
Menu
Evidence-based practice
Community
Continuing Professional Development
News
Search National Elf Service
No bias. No misinformation. No spin. Just what you need!
The Mental Elf
Home
About
Categories
Cost effectiveness
Evaluation and impact assessment
Financial management
Financial sustainability
Integration
Needs assessment
Outcomes based commissioning
Partnership working
Population health
Resource allocation
Service reconfiguration
Service review and improvement
Specialised commissioning
Strategy development and planning
Technology
Urgent care
Variation
caries
cleft lip and palate
dental workforce
endodontics
oral and maxillofacial surgery
oral cancer
oral health
oral medicine and pathology
orthodontics
periodontal disease
restorative dentistry
temporomandibular joint disorders
tooth surface loss
Diagnosis
brain imaging
diagnostic test
risk factors
screening programme
screening test
ICT
learning styles
phonics
reading
science
social emotional
social skills
wellbeing
autistic spectrum disorder
challenging behaviour
communication
down syndrome
parents with learning disabilities
prader-willi syndrome
profound and multiple learning disability
Mental health
ADHD
anxiety
bipolar disorder
dementia
depression
eating disorders
OCD
panic disorder
personality disorders
psychosis
PTSD
schizophrenia
self-harm
sleep disorders
substance misuse
suicide
autoimmune and inflammatory diseases
fibromyalgia
fractures and dislocations
musculoskeletal pain
neck and back pain
osteoarthritis
osteoporosis
rheumatoid arthritis
soft tissue injuries
spinal conditions
spondyloarthropathies
Other health conditions
blood-borne viruses
cancer
cardiovascular disease
chronic fatigue syndrome
comorbidity
epilepsy
sleep apnoea
traumatic brain injury
Populations and settings
advocacy
black and minority ethnic
caregivers
child and adolescent
commissioning
community settings
crime
deinstitutionalisation
employment
end of life
family carers
hospital admissions
housing
later life
liaison psychiatry
loneliness
older adult
parenting
patient safety
perinatal mental health
poverty
pregnancy
primary care
quality of life
schools
secondary care
service user involvement
shared care
sport
training
vulnerable people
young adult
Publication types
appraisal
audit
case study
case-control
cohort study
consultation
cross-sectional
economic analysis
economic evaluation
guideline
legislation
literature review
meta-analysis
mixed methods
observational study
patient information
policy
prospective study
qualitative
questionnaire
randomised controlled trial
report
scoping review
statistics
survey
systematic review
technology assessment
training resource
website
coproduction
equality and diversity
evidence based social care
home care
integration
local authorities
nursing homes
personal budgets and direct payments
personalisation
reablement
residential care
safeguarding
social care decision making
social care training
social care workforce
social work
support planning
user led organisations
voluntary and community sector
Treatment
antidepressants
antipsychotics
CBT
cognitive bias modification (cbm)
complementary and alternative
digital health
exercise
medicines
mental illness prevention
mindfulness
other
psychotherapy
rehabilitation
self-management
surgical
systems
telehealth
topical
Podcasts
#ElfieSelfie
Search
Search National Elf Service
Home » Posts » Mental health » anxiety » Music therapy can reduce symptoms of depression
Music therapy can reduce symptoms of depression
1 Response »
Aug 1 2011
Posted by
Andre Tomlin
Music therapy, when combined with standard treatment, is effective in helping people with depression, according to a small Finnish randomised controlled trial published in the August issue of the British Journal of Psychiatry.
The research team from the University of Jyväskylä, led by Professor Jaakko Erkkilä and Professor Christian Gold, recruited 79 people aged between 18 and 50 years old who had been diagnosed with depression. 33 of the participants were offered 20 music therapy sessions, in addition to their usual treatment for depression. In Finland, standard treatment for depression includes medication (antidepressants), 5-6 individual psychotherapy sessions and psychiatric counselling. The other 46 participants just received standard treatment, and acted as the control group.
The one-on-one music therapy sessions each lasted 60 minutes and took place twice a week. Trained music therapists helped each participant to improvise music using percussion instruments and drums.
On average, each participant attended 18 music therapy sessions. 29 (88%) attended at least 15 sessions. The participants in both groups were followed up at 3 months and 6 months and assessed for symptoms of depression and anxiety.
The researchers found that, after 3 months, the participants who received music therapy showed greater improvement than those who received standard care only. They had significantly fewer symptoms of depression and anxiety, and scored better on general functioning. Although improvements still remained after 6 months, the difference between the groups was no longer statistically significant.
Professor Gold said:
Our trial has shown that music therapy, when added to standard care including medication, psychotherapy and counselling, helps people to improve their levels of depression and anxiety. Music therapy has specific qualities that allow people to express themselves and interact in a non-verbal way – even in situations when they cannot find the words to describe their inner experiences.
Professor Erkkilä said:
We found that people often expressed their inner pressure and feelings by drumming or with the tones produced with a mallet instrument. Some people described their playing experience as cathartic. Our findings now need to be repeated with a larger sample of people, and further research is needed to assess the cost-effectiveness of such therapy.
The research has been welcomed by UK experts. Writing in an editorial in the same issue of the British Journal of Psychiatry, Dr Mike Crawford, Reader in Mental Health Services Research in the Centre for Mental Health, Imperial College London, said:
This is a high-quality randomised trial of music therapy specifically for depression, and the results suggest that it can improve the mood and general functioning of people with depression. Music-making is social, pleasurable and meaningful. It has been argued that music making engages people in ways that words may simply not be able to.
Perhaps it’s time to update the Cochrane systematic review?
Links
Erkkilä J, Punkanen M, Fachner J, Ala-Ruona E, Pöntiö I, Tervaniemi M, Vanhala M and Gold C. Individual music therapy for depression: Randomised controlled trial (PDF). British Journal of Psychiatry 2011; 199: 132-139.
Maratos A, Crawford MJ and Procter S. Music therapy for depression: it seems to work, but how? (PDF) British Journal of Psychiatry 2011; 199: 92-93.
Maratos AS, Gold C, Wang X, Crawford MJ. Music therapy for depression. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Jan 23;(1):CD004517.
Share on Facebook Tweet this on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+
Mark as read
Share this post:
Share on Facebook Tweet this on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+ Share via email
Create a personal elf note about this blog
Tagged with: anxiety disorders, Cochrane, depression, music therapy, randomised controlled trial
Andre Tomlin
André Tomlin is an Information Scientist with 20 years experience working in evidence-based healthcare. He's worked in the NHS, for Oxford University and since 2002 as Managing Director of Minervation Ltd, a consultancy company who do clever digital stuff for charities, universities and the public sector. Most recently André has been the driving force behind the Mental Elf and the National Elf Service; an innovative digital platform that helps professionals keep up to date with simple, clear and engaging summaries of evidence-based research. André is a Trustee at the Centre for Mental Health and an Honorary Research Fellow at University College London Division of Psychiatry. He lives in Bristol with his wife, dog and three little elflings.
More posts - Website
Follow me here –
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Google Plus
Logging In...
Profile cancel
Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Facebook
or
Comment
Name
Email Not published
Website
1 Reply
0 Comments
0 Tweets
0 Facebook
1 Pingback
Last reply was August 29, 2013
Music interventions to replace sedatives for preoperative anxiety? - The Mental Elf
View August 29, 2013
[…] the Woodland we have previously looked at musical interventions for agitation in dementia and depression. In June 2013 the Cochrane Collaboration published a systematic review of musical interventions for […]
Reply
Try out our members features!
Sign up now. It’s free! Or Sign in
We can help you:
1Keep up to date with the latest research
2Connect with experts and colleagues
3Contribute to your professional development
Tell me more about the benefits of membership
Free email newsletter
Enter your email address
FOLLOW the Mental Elf
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Google+
Read our RSS feed
Find us on LinkedIn
Twitter
@NetworkSmarten @NicolaByrom Fab, let me know when you have a date! Cheers, André about 7 hours ago Reply Retweet Favorite
RT @ripfa: Aimed at frontline social care practitioners, our new briefing explains 7 key principles of strengths-based approaches in social… about 7 hours ago Reply Retweet Favorite
@NetworkSmarten @NicolaByrom Nice! Give me a shout if you need any help around the digital dissemination of the conference. Cheers, André about 7 hours ago Reply Retweet Favorite
RT @NetworkSmarten: @Mental_Elf @NicolaByrom Our student team are leading some of their own research projects. Currently planning our first… about 7 hours ago Reply Retweet Favorite
RT @markybt: @Mental_Elf @mgoat73 @MarkOneinFour @NetworkMARCH 2/2 I am really encouraged by the MH social workers in integrated community… about 8 hours ago Reply Retweet Favorite
Mental_Elf
Recent Posts
Compulsory detention under the Mental Health Act: significantly more likely if you come from a BAME or migrant group
How should we assess suicide risk in mental health services, or should we stop doing it?
Suicide risk assessment among psychiatric inpatients: pessimism around predictive power
The impact of racism on mental health
Higher body mass index is associated with a lower subjective wellbeing
Recent Comments
Cat on How should we assess suicide risk in mental health services, or should we stop doing it?
Joe Bloggs on Suicide risk assessment among psychiatric inpatients: pessimism around predictive power
JohnC on Suicide risk assessment among psychiatric inpatients: pessimism around predictive power
Suggest a paper
Do you have a suggestion for a paper? Then let us know.
Click here
Watch our 2 minute promo video!
Visit our other Elf blogs
Child
Commissioning
Dentistry
Diabetes
Education
Learning Disabilities
Lifestyle
Mental Health
Musculoskeletal
Social Care
Stroke
Free trial
Close
Ready to get started? It's free!
Sign up now No thanks Tell me more about the benefits of membership
Search National Elf Service
Free email newsletter
Enter your email address
FOLLOW the Mental Elf
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Google+
Read our RSS feed
Find us on LinkedIn
© 2019 National Elf Service is brought to you by Minervation Ltd
Email: info@nationalelfservice.net
About
Evaluation
Site Map
Terms
Privacy
Cookies
Log In