NSAIDs for Migraine Pain Relief: Everything You Need to Know
Migraine Treatments
Everything You Need to Know About NSAIDs for Migraine Treatment
Have you ever been told to try a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug to relieve your migraine pain? If so, your first reaction might have been concern. And that’s understandable, because NSAIDs sound, well, intense.
However, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs—which we’ll now call NSAIDs going forward simply because it’s easier—shouldn’t make you do a double-take. And that’s because it’s just a formal name for a very common pain relief medication.
You’ve heard of Advil, Excedrin, and Aleve, right? Well, those are all NSAIDs. And while they relieve all kinds of pain (muscle aches, menstrual cramps, rheumatoid arthritis, tension headaches, and so on), we’re going to focus on migraine headache pain today.
What are the most common NSAIDs?
Here’s a brief list of the most common NSAIDs along with their brand names. We’re guessing you might recognize quite a few of these pain relievers.
naproxen (generic Aleve, Anaprox, Naprelan, and Naprosyn)
ibuprofen (generic Advil and Motrin)
aspirin (generic Anacin, Ascriptin, Bayer, Bufferin, Excedrin, Excotrin)
celecoxib (generic Celebrex)
To see a full list of NSAIDs, click here.
Are NSAIDs prescription drugs or over-the-counter?
Both. Many NSAIDs (such as Advil, Motrin, and Excedrin) are available over-the-counter. The stronger NSAIDs, such as migraine-strength naproxen, do require a prescription from a doctor.
How do NSAIDs work to treat migraines?
The short and sweet answer is that NSAIDs block the inflammation that causes your migraine pain.
The more scientific answer is a little more complex. While there’s still no conclusive research as to what causes migraines, it’s believed migraines start when the brain’s blood vessels constrict and make your brain think that it needs a lot more blood than it really does. The blood vessels respond by dilating, resulting in a rush of blood to the brain. Two of the enzymes responsible for that inflammation are called Cox-1 and Cox-2.
NSAIDs are Cox-1 and Cox-2 inhibitors, meaning they block that enzyme from creating inflammation.
How do you take NSAIDs?
NSAIDs are tablets, so you’ll want to take them with a glass of water. Some people find that they need to take them with a little bit of food to avoid an upset stomach.
If you’re taking a prescription NSAID, make sure to take it as prescribed by your doctor.
How long do they take to start working?
NSAIDs should start working to relieve your migraine attacks with an hour of taking them.
How often can I take NSAIDs?
While NSAIDs are considered to be safe drugs, you want to take them sparingly to avoid side effects—a general rule of thumb is not to take them more than three days a week.
Who should take NSAIDs?
Over-the-counter NSAIDs are good to try if you experience mild migraines. Prescription NSAIDs, such as naproxen, are best for people who need a stronger treatment.
Who shouldn’t take NSAIDs?
While NSAIDs are generally considered safe and effective, there are people who should consider other migraine treatments. Namely:
People who have asthma
People who are breastfeeding, pregnant, or planning to become pregnant
People who have heart disease, high blood pressure, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease
People who have a history or stomach conditions (such as Crohn’s disease or GERD)
People who are taking blood thinners or diuretics
That said, everyone’s body reacts to medication differently and you should speak to your doctor about your specific needs. (Yes, we know that you’d like all the answers now, but we’re committed to providing you with the best migraine care, and in this case, that means not making any claims we can’t stand by.)
What are the possible side effects of NSAIDs?
While NSAIDs are generally considered safe, like many medications, there are potential side effects. Some of the common side effects include:
bloating, constipation, diarrhea, gas
heartburn
nausea or vomiting
stomach pain
You should immediately contact your doctor if you experience signs of serious allergic reaction, dizziness, or difficulty breathing while taking these medications.
Which NSAID does Cove offer?
Cove currently offers prescription-strength naproxen, an FDA-approved migraine treatment. We chose naproxen because patients can take it less often than other NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen).
We know this is a ton of information on and you still might have questions about which migraine medications are right for you. That’s why we work with licensed physicians to help each and every person find an effective treatment plan. If you’d like to speak to a Cove physician about treating your migraines, simply click here.
If you’d like to keep exploring your pain relief options, we recommend reading about other migraine treatments, such as triptans. Or, if you’d like to learn more about migraine prevention treatment, read up on beta blockers, anticonvulsants, and antidepressants.
The information provided in this article is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. You should not rely upon the content provided in this article for specific medical advice. If you have any questions or concerns, please talk to your doctor.
Naproxen is an oral medications used to ease pain, swelling, and fever. This drug may raise the chance of heart and blood vessel side effects like heart attack and stroke. If these happen, they can be deadly. The risk of these side effects may be greater if you have heart disease or risks for heart disease. However, the risk may also be raised in people who do not have heart disease or risks for heart disease. The risk of these health problems can happen as soon as the first weeks of using this drug and may be greater with higher doses or with long-term use. This drug may raise the chance of very bad and sometimes deadly stomach or bowel side effects like ulcers or bleeding. The risk is greater in older people. The risk is also greater in people who have had stomach or bowel ulcers or bleeding before. These problems may occur without warning signs. If you are pregnant or you get pregnant while taking this drug, call your doctor right away. Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. You will need to talk about any risks to your baby. You can read more about naproxen’s side effects, warnings, and precautions here. Full prescribing information for naproxen is available here. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit MedWatch: https://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/default.htm or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Photo by Tanja Heffner on Unsplash.
Previous Article
Next Article
Our offeringMigraine 101Learn
FAQContactPressCareers
Stay ahead of it
Email
⟩
Need help? Call us toll-free (877) 456-2683
© 2019 CovePrivacy PolicyTerms & ConditionsInformed Consent