Laryngeal and Tracheal Infection | almostadoctor
Home
Encyclopaedia
Flashcards
Mind Maps
OSCE Checklist
Differentialiser
Blog
About
Contact
medical encyclopaedia
A B C D E F G H I K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X
La Le Lf Li Lo Lu Ly
Larg Lary
Laryngeal and Tracheal Infection
Infectious Diseases / Paediatrics
27 Jun, 2017
0
Tom Leach
Contents
1 Introduction
2 Causes
3 Assessing Severity
4 Acute management
5 Croup
5.1 Management
6 Bacterial Tracheitis
6.1 Presentation
6.2 Treatment
7 Differentiating Croup for Epiglottitis
8 Papilloma of the larynx
8.1 Presentation
8.2 Diagnosis
8.3 Treatment
9 Related Articles
Introduction
Although sometimes referred to as synonymous as ‘Croup’ there can be many causes, croup just being the most common. It can be a very serious acute situation, as inflammation can rapidly block the upper airway.
The main features of this are:
Stridor – (inspiratory wheeze) – rasping sound
Hoars voice – due to inflammation of the vocal
Barking cough – some say it sounds like a sea lion!
Dyspnoea
Causes
Croup: –
Viral laryngotracheitis – VERY COMMON! – accounts for 95% of cases
Bacterial Tracheitis (rare)
Rare causes:
Epiglottitis
Inhalation of smoke/hot fumes
Trauma
Retropharyngeal abscess
Allergic laryngeal oedema (angioedema)
Tetany – poor vit D intake
Measles
Diphtheria
Assessing Severity
This is done by measuring the degree of subcostal, intersternal and sternal recession. This can be present (in order of increasing severity):
Not at all
Only on crying
At rest
Biphasic
Other features that indicate severe respiratory distress include:
Central cyanosis
Rapid heart rate
Agitation
Low O2 saturation – should be measured by pulse oximetry
Acute management
DONT EXAMINE THE THROAT! – this can precipitate a complete obstruction
Careful observations for deterioration
If you are worried, give nebulised epinephrine – (usually when O2 <93%)
Consider steroids (oral or nebulised)
If respiratory failure develops, then INTUBATE! – This is now rare due to steroid treatments
Croup
Occurs between ages 2-6. Peak incidence age 1-2.
5% of children will be affected at some stage
Initially – symptoms like the common cold – e.g. fever and coryza. Symptoms may initially only be at night, and are generally worse at night.
SRIDOR may be present. This can make the child worried, and may exaggerate hyperventilation
The volume of stridor can also indicate the severity of the respiratory distress. In severe disease, stridor may be quiet, due low respiratory flow
Barking cough
Mucosal inflammation and increased secretions. These affect the larynx, trachea and bronchi. The subglottal region is the most likely to cause obstruction.
Mild cases (e.g. costal recession not apparent at rest) may be managed at home, although the younger the child (i.e. <12 months) the more likely they are to be admitted.
Steam and warm air – is often recommended although of no proven benefit.
Management
Oral and nebulised steroids (dexamethasone, prednisolone) and nebulaised steroids are proven to reduce the length and severity of the attacks.
If stable, you can probably send the patient home, and tell the parents to watch out for ↑respiratory rate, restlessness and fatigue.
Nebulised epinephrine – should be given to those with O2 sats of <94%
Bacterial Tracheitis
Presentation similar to viral croup, except more rapidly progressive, and high fever likely. Commonly caused by S Auerues and H Influenzae.
Mucous secretions are likely to be thicker and greater in volume.
Caused by H influenzae (type B). It is life threatening. Incidence is relatively low in the UK due to the Hib immunisation system.
There is massive swelling of the epiglottis and associated tissues. There is also often septicaemia.
Can occur at any age, most common age 1-6
Important to differentiate form croup as treatment is very different!
Presentation
High fever
Child appears very ill / toxic
STRIDOR – may be present
Very painful – this can prevent swallowing, and the child may drool
Rapid onset / rapid increasing symptoms over several hours
Child likes to sit upright with mouth open, as this provides the best position to keep the airway open.
No cough
Lying down, or examination of the throat with a tongue depressor can be life-threatening and should not be performed!
The red swollen epiglottis may be visible above the back of the tongue is some cases (rising sun sign) – but don’t examine for it, or you may precipitate complete obstruction!
Treatment
Give general anaesthetic and intubate.
Don’t take blood cultures until intubation is complete
In some cases, the trachea may be so narrowed that intubation is not possible. Emergency tracheostomy may be required in these instances
Take blood cultures, and start a broad spectrum IV antibiotics, e.g. cefuroxime.
Usually, intubation can be stopped after 24 hours, and antibiotics should be continued for 3-5 days. Most children will be symptomless after 2-3 days, and there are usually no long-term problems.
In cases that cannot be extubate within 24 hours, the cause is usually bacterial, and it is not a true epiglottitis.
Rifampicin is offered to close household contacts as prophylaxis. This is standard procedure in all cases of Hib infection.
Vaccination schedule for Hib – this requires 4 vaccines:
2 months
3 months
4 months
12 months
Differentiating Croup for Epiglottitis
Croup
Epiglottitis
Onset
Days
Hours
Preceding Coryza
Yes
No
Able to drink
Yes
No
Drooling
No
Yes
Appearance
Unwell
Toxic, very ill
Fever
<38.5’
>38.5’
Stridor
Harsh rasping sound
Soft ‘whispering’
Voice
Hoarse
Muffled, child won’t speak
Papilloma of the larynx
(aka laryngeal papillomatosis)
A papilloma is a benign epithelial tumour, which grows perpendicular to the epithelium, in finger-like projections, and may obstruct lumen – in this case, the larynx.
This condition is twice as common in children as adults, but is still rare (2-4 per 100 000). The tumours usually regress spontaneously at around the time of puberty.
It can be fatal if the growths obstruct the larynx completely.
Like many papillomas, it is caused by HPV (Human papilloma virus), and the tumours themselves are benign.
Treatment nearly always involve surgery. This is usually by laser ablation. The surgeon must be careful, as the tumour is very easily spread, for example, on tracheostomy, the tumours may grow around the stoma after surgery!
This is caused by the toxin of the bacterium Corynebacterium Diphtheriae.
Presentation
Swollen tonsils
Membrane over the back of the palate (fauces)
Polyneuritis – often involves the cranial nerves
Shock
Dysphagia
Muffled voice
Cough
Airway obstruction
Bronchopneumonia
Myocarditis – do regular ECG’s on all diphtheria patients
Diagnosis
Swab and PCR of the material around the fauces.
Treatment
Diphtheria antitoxin, plus
Erythromycin
Give all close contacts 7 days of erythromycin prophylaxis.
Related Articles
Recurrent Cough
Rubella (German Measles)
Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
Vaccination Schedule (UK)
Whooping Cough
Tags: Infectious DiseasesPaediatrics
Dr Tom Leach
Dr Tom Leach MBChB DCH EMCert(ACEM) currently works as a GP Registrar and an Emergency Department CMO in Australia. He is also a Clinical Associate Lecturer at the Australian National University. After graduating from his medical degree at the University of Manchester in 2011, Tom completed his Foundation Training at Bolton Royal Hospital, before moving to Australia in 2013. He started almostadoctor whilst a third year medical student in 2009. Read full bio
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Notify me of new posts by email.
Browse
Sources
Read more about our sources
Page Tools
About | Sources | Contact | Terms of Use | Privacy & Security | Advertising
© 2009 – 2019 Dr Tom Leach MBChB DCH EMCert(ACEM)
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Reject Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy