Triptans | Migraine.com
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Forums
Medications & Prescription Treatment
Triptans
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
By admin October 25, 2010 at 8:22 pm
Welcome to the Triptans Forum
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg July 9, 2011 at 4:49 pm
Skel, Only your physician is qualified to prescribe your medication. That said, there are a handful of different triptans. Each has something special about it that makes it somewhat unique. For instance, while Imitrex injections act very quickly, Frova tablets last the longest. While some patients need the fast acting qualities of sumatriptan (Imitrex) others do much better when the triptan stays in their system an extra long time, such as Frova provides. Those with Menstrual Migraines usually do better on Frova.
So yes, there are multiple types of triptans, and while one may not be working for you, another might. Seeing a headache specialist who is well versed in the different types of triptans and how to use them is best, but if that’s not possible for you right now, consider asking your doctor to try a different triptan in case you might have some better luck with it.
Sumatriptan itself doesn’t usually need “time” to work. Either it works for your attack, or it doesn’t. This doesn’t usually change a lot with time or repetitive use, although every attack can be different from the last one you had…
reply
By bonkersbgood October 20, 2011 at 9:50 pm
I started on Imitrex(nasal) and it worked beautifully the first time or two. Within seconds I had relief and I could live amongst the living again. But as time went on–the Imitrex worked less and less until I had a reaction to it. My throat closed shut and I could not suck one ounce of air. Talk about panic! EVERY time I had this reaction I would get the throat swelling 72 hours after I took the Imitrex. And what is weird is that my migraines usually last right around 72 hrs too. Anyone else have reactions to Imitrex. It worked beautifully the first two times!!!
reply
By Teri Robert October 21, 2011 at 2:52 pm
BONKERSBGOOD,
Yikes! Sorry that happened to you. What did your doctor say about this? I don’t understand how the Imitrex could have caused that reaction 72 hours later because it should have been totally out of your system long before that. The half-life of Imitrex Nasal Spray is only two hours, so it’s out of the system within 12 hours. I’m not questioning what you say, just trying to figure out how this could have happened. Have you tried any of the other triptans? Zomig also makes a nasal spray.
Teri
reply
By wrensong December 20, 2011 at 10:04 pm
My Axert isn’t working anymore, has that happened to others?
reply
By Gregory Gauthier December 29, 2011 at 10:12 am
Wren, how often have you been using the Axert ? Have you tried the sumatriptan injectable (SumavelDosepro) ? That works incredibly fast (at least for me, although side effects happen faster also). Greg
reply
By Anonymous January 8, 2012 at 11:02 pm
Within the past two years I have had a steady increase in the number of migraines that I am getting. With what I am reading, I think I may be lucky because the triptans usually work for me. I am just concerned at the amount of them I am taking. I take about 6 a week, but at least I am still functioning at work. I worry about the impact this will have on my body.
reply
By Teri Robert January 9, 2012 at 5:05 am
Sallie,
You said you’re taking six triptans a week. How many days are you using them. The number of days seems to be more important than the number of doses. Are you working with your doctor on preventives?
reply
By Anonymous January 10, 2012 at 1:51 am
Hello Teri,
Thanks for responding. Typically, I am able to take one and I am good to go. Of course, good to go is relative. However, I have the tricky ones that may take two doses or the Meds may not work at all. I would have to say that I am averaging 5-6 days a week (I hate to admit that). I definitely feel that I have gotten stuck.
I am on preventatives, believe it or not. My current cocktail is zonisimide, topamax, buproprion and flexaril. I have just not been able to get them under control as they have been increasing. I did have a wonderful 2weeks free of migraines when I was put on prednisone to break the cycle. Unfortunately they returned once I came off of it. I had my first round of Botox in November with the hopes of some change. I am scheduled again in February, but I am unsure if I want to continue because I feel that I may be worse.
My Neuro said that I am ok as long as I don’t take more that 6 triptans in a week. I did have a visit with the PA in the office and she didn’t seem to have the same approval of the 6 triptans number, but would not disagree with the Neuro.
I know my husband is worried every time I take something and I don’t feel that I can honestly ease his mind. I have been taking the triptans since I was about 17 and I am now 32, but I have never taken them in the quantity that I am now.
reply
By BeringC February 16, 2012 at 8:45 pm
A migraine sufferer for 3 years (living in the tropics)I discovered Zomig and Imigran Nasal spray 4 months ago, and felt like my life had been saved.
However a month ago while in the shower I noticed that the veins running over my hips were suddenly visible. I had never seen them before.
Two weeks after that I noticed visible veins in my arms and shoulders.
I went to my GP who was confident it was a side-effect of the triptans, due to the vascular nature of their work. She asked me to not use them anymore and to seek out natural alternatives for preventing and treating migraines. That same day I had a migraine attack, as the pain increased (with no relief from massage, cold showers, deep breathing, and visualisation) I could not handle it anymore and took a spray (20mg dose) which killed it. The next day I noticed a new web of veins across my chest, so I think my GP is right. She says she feels they will eventually go back to normal.
I can’t see any documentation of this side-effect in my research.
Has anyone else ever come across this and do I have anything to worry about?
reply
By Carol Witzell January 28, 2013 at 8:28 am
I am a lifelong migraner…first headache at age 4…have Chronic Migraines related to MANY triggers. I am a patient at the Carolina Institute for Headaches in Chapel Hill, NC…a 5 hr drive from my home in Columbia, SC. But it’s worth it. I keep on hand at ALL time; Imitrex 100mg tablets; Naratritan (Amerge…a stronger formulation of Imitrex) 2.5 mg; and Alsuma injections; also a stronger formulation of triptans. Triptans and Phenergen suppositories have given me my life back. I have had excellent results with them. I am now 56 years old; so believe me when I tell you that I have tried every drug on the market…those for prevention; such as anti-depressants or Tompamax (none of which worked); and beta-blockers…I use Verapramil 1 at night; and it seems to help. I also take 300 mg of Lyrica at bedtime. This helps with sleep and with restless legs; which I found is a common shared disorder among migraneurs. After 40-odd years of trying various drugs; I am TOTALLY sold on the triptans! I highly recommend them if you are like me and suffer almost daily migraines.
reply
By Carol Witzell January 28, 2013 at 8:28 am
I am a lifelong migraner…first headache at age 4…have Chronic Migraines related to MANY triggers. I am a patient at the Carolina Institute for Headaches in Chapel Hill, NC…a 5 hr drive from my home in Columbia, SC. But it’s worth it. I keep on hand at ALL time; Imitrex 100mg tablets; Naratritan (Amerge…a stronger formulation of Imitrex) 2.5 mg; and Alsuma injections; also a stronger formulation of triptans. Triptans and Phenergen suppositories have given me my life back. I have had excellent results with them. I am now 56 years old; so believe me when I tell you that I have tried every drug on the market…those for prevention; such as anti-depressants or Tompamax (none of which worked); and beta-blockers…I use Verapramil 1 at night; and it seems to help. I also take 300 mg of Lyrica at bedtime. This helps with sleep and with restless legs; which I found is a common shared disorder among migraneurs. After 40-odd years of trying various drugs; I am TOTALLY sold on the triptans! I highly recommend them if you are like me and suffer almost daily migraines.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg January 28, 2013 at 9:26 pm
Carol Witzell – How frequently are you taking your triptans? Unfortunately, they can be the cause of something called Medication Overuse Headache (MOH) if taken more than 3 about doses per week. Alsuma is a generic version of Imitrex. All triptans work slightly differently, each with a slightly different focus.
I’m so glad you’ve found something that is helpful and pray you keep having results from them. Good luck 🙂
reply
By Anonymous February 19, 2013 at 8:15 am
Hi, just a quick question, if anyone knows the answer. During a conversation with my migraine specialist she mentioned that you should never take a triptan during the aura phase of migraine, but only after the headache has started. She continued saying something else and I forgot to ask her about this. I am 42 yrs old and have always taken triptans right at the first sign of an attack (ie visual aura). I was told to do this decades ago in order for the drug to be absorbed quickly enough to work as vomiting usually started within 30 minutes of the aura. Just wondered if anybody knew WHY you’re not supposed to take tripans during aura? Is it dangerous?
Thanks in advance.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg February 19, 2013 at 5:14 pm
vikki – There is a growing body of research that says that you are correct 🙂 We actually talk about this fairly frequently in conference. Here is what just one paper says:
“Patients should be told to take their triptan at the start of or early in a migraine attack because that will lead to better efficacy, as the migraine process is still located in the peripheral trigeminal system. Once the brainstem becomes involved and central sensiti-zation is present, patients develop allodynia and triptans and other medicines will not work as well.”
If your doctor would like to look this information up, it can be found in the journal Headache (Headache 2012;52;S2:60-64) October 2012. Author is Alan M. Rapoport, MD
reply
By Andrew Mestern March 11, 2013 at 12:26 am
I have successfully used 100mg Sumitriptan tablets for the last 5 years, I average 6 or so migraines a month, usually in short clusters of 2-3 days. The last 3 days things have changed, first the Sumitriptan took forever to kick in and didn’t fully kill the migraine. Following that today the first dose did not work at all and the second dose was 50% effective.Afraid to go for a third dose. Wondering about a switch to injectable or nasal.
reply
By sreenivas March 11, 2013 at 2:54 pm
As per my neuro’s prescription, I am using RizaTriptan 5mg SOS and getting relief in an hour in addition to preventive medication.I used to take an average of 5 to 6 tabs of Rizatriptan 5 mg in a month.Yet I am scared of the side effects of this medicine in the long run but there is no other way to avoid this in order to abort the attack at home and at work.
Is it advisable to continue the present management ?
Sreenivas Amancharla
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg March 13, 2013 at 6:28 pm
Sreenivas – I wish I had an answer for you. It is always best to do as your doctor has prescribed. If you have questions I hope you will contact them soon to have those questions answered. There are no across-the-board answers that works for all patients.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg March 13, 2013 at 6:32 pm
andrewmestern – I am so very sorry that you have hit this difficult point in your Migraines. It can be really scary when the treatment we have relied on for so long suddenly doesn’t seem to want to do its job.
There can be a number of reasons for this. One of those is that triptans can sometimes become less effective, or ineffective when central sensitization has occurred. Here is a link about central sensitization that might be helpful for you to discern if this might be happening to you. Please discuss this with your doctor, so if additional therapies etc need to be implemented you can do so before central sensitization becomes a problem. Hang in there…
https://migraine.com/blog/migraine-allodynia-and-central-sensitization/
reply
By Andrew Mestern March 14, 2013 at 3:07 am
Fascinating article about sensitization, thankyou, i see one mistake i have been making with my meds. I always wait and wait to take the Sumitriptan. I tell myself it might go away,or maybe its just a headache, and of course it never does. I dont get an aura, my only indication is usually extreme cravings for caffiene and food, any food.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg March 15, 2013 at 2:43 am
andrewmestern – There is a caveat to treatment. We need to be careful to avoid something called Medication Overuse Headache. Here is a link about that: https://migraine.com/blog/help-how-can-i-not-overuse-migraine-medications/
It’s so hard sometimes to know whether we really need to take a medicine, but when we do, certainly taking it quickly can make a really super big difference.
reply
By Blaine January 26, 2015 at 4:33 pm
I realize this thread hasn’t been updated in almost two years, but I’m finding the efficacy of generic Sumatriptan varies considerably between brands. I’m hoping for feedback.
I tried Dr Reddy’s Sumatriptan about five years ago. It didn’t work at all, so I stayed with Treximet. Due to co-pays on Treximet increasing over 10x last year, I’ve been trying other brands. Mylan sort of worked, though it took at least two hours to kick in and another migraine would occur for a 2-3 consecutive days. Watson worked extremely well, to the point I dropped to half a (100mg) pill; it kicked in within an hour but often I still had another migraine the following day (unfortunately Watson isn’t making Sumatriptan now, hopefully that’s only temporary). I call these “rebounds” but I’m not sure if that’s the proper term for migraines on consecutive days.
Some questions:
1. On every forum I’ve seen, complains about Dr Reddy’s Sumatriptan were frequent until 2012 but just stopped at that point. Do people find this works now? It seems to be the most common generic.
2. Any comments on other brands?
Note: I hope posting about brands is OK, I looked through the rules and didn’t see anything about it. I’ve experienced such a huge variation in efficacy I’m surprised no one talks about it.
reply
By Erin February 16, 2015 at 12:35 am
Triptans stopped working for me and when I stopped using them, my migraine frequency decreased. Just a thought for anyone who is chronic. Try going off them for a bit.
reply
By Anonymous February 18, 2015 at 11:03 am
This is in reply to bdbr —
I hear what you’re saying about Dr. Reddy’s Sumatriptan. When my pharmacy first made the switch on me without my knowledge, I was on 50mg Imitrex and they went generic with Dr. Reddy’s. I didn’t notice the change and simply took one when my migraine started. It sort of worked in that it stopped the migraine…but it came back almost immediately a couple hours later, whereas the name brand Imitrex always took care of things permanently, if you know what I mean. However, with our insurance being the way it is these days, we HAVE TO use generics or go broke, so I have found if I use 100mg Dr. Reddy’s along with two Excedrin, and sometimes one Aleve, it takes care of my migraine. And I agree with you about all generics not being created equally. I also take Topiramate and have found that only the one made by Cambor works; all others are akin to taking sugar pills.
reply
By Blaine February 25, 2015 at 12:11 pm
Thanks for that info AbsinthePlease. I’ve just started using Topiramate so I’ll look into that brand.
An update – I got a script of Dr Reddy’s a month ago and have used 50mg (actually a half pill of 100mg, usually with Aleve) a few times and it works moderately well – about the same as Mylan, but at 1/3 the price.
I checked with the Costco pharmacy and their Sumatriptan is made by North Star, a US pharmaceutical company, and sells for a non-insurance price of $21.87 for 9 pills (less than half the price of Dr Reddy). That sounds promising as well.
In any case, given the varying prices and efficacies of generics I strongly recommend migraneurs put some effort into finding the best brand. Supporting good brands also helps all the other migraneurs out there too!
reply
By Anonymous February 25, 2015 at 2:22 pm
To bdbr – I need to correct a spelling error: it’s Camber, not Cambor. And I don’t know where you live, but in my area, and it’s a large metropolitan one with many big name pharmacies/general merchandise stores, e.g., Walmart, Walgreen’s, Target, etc., the only one to carry Camber Topiramate is CVS; they told me it’s their preferred brand.
reply
Join the conversation! Log in or create an account.
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.