Eurospa Eucalyptus Oil Uses: Skip the Confusion. We Have the Perfect Christmas Gift for Dad.
Pages
Home
About Eucalyptus
Immune System
Respiratory
Pain Relief
Skin & Beauty
Insects & Bugs
Home & Spa
Shop
Mystifier Maintenance Videos
Thursday, November 5, 2015
Skip the Confusion. We Have the Perfect Christmas Gift for Dad.
Have you noticed the holiday shopping season has begun? It’s hard to miss with all the Christmas music and trimmings everywhere. And whether you are an early bird or last minute deal finder, you’ll likely agree that Dad is always the hardest to shop for and he’s often saved for last. Since you know he’s likely got enough ties, fragrances and gift cards, how about giving him a gift that will help him feel, look and live younger?
We at Eurospa, have created our Eucalyptus Shower Mist for anyone that wants to feel and be more healthy - but we’ve noticed that men simply rave about it. It’s a way to stay healthy that they don’t have to eat, won’t smell like flowers and that keeps their mind and body energized and clear. Some ailments that it commonly relieves are arthritis, muscle pain, respiratory difficulties and hair and skin issues. The best way to reap the benefits is through steam inhalation.
Eucalyptus steam inhalation is recommended by some alternative practitioners for relieving nasal congestion and sinus congestion, usually from colds and flu. It can be done two to four times a day to relieve symptoms. If you're not able to do this, a steamy shower, vaporizer, or facial sauna is an alternative.
Eucalyptus oil is an essential oil which can be found in many health food stores and online. It should not be confused with camphor oil. Eucalyptus oil should not be ingested, applied directly to the skin, or used in excess of suggested amounts.
This is why Eurospa developed a eucalyptus oil shower spray. You simply run the hot water in your shower, close the windows and doors for full effect - and spray the mist once or twice into the steam. Breathe in deeply and let it do it’s work.
You’ll be amazed at how refreshed, energized and lose your body will feel!
At Eurospa, our passion is to provide you with the highest quality products possible to allow you the chance at great health and divine relaxation. We are proud to offer the gift of health to you this holiday season and to save you the stress of deciding what to get dad for Christmas!
Please contact us today for more information and to make your first (or repeat) order!
Posted by Eric Snyder at 10:44 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
About Me
Eric Snyder owner of Eurospa Aromatics and an Eucalyptus Oil expert. Please add my Google profile to your circles.
Labels: best holiday gifts, Christmas gift ideas, christmas shopping, Eucalyptus Oil, eurospa, gifts for dad, gifts for men, holiday shopping
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Menthol Crystals
Now on Amazon
2 oz Eucalyptus Oil w/ dropper and spray caps
Now on Amazon - ONLY $8.95
Popular Posts
What Happened at ISPA Won't Stay at ISPA
Take Eucalyptus Steam Room Experience Home to the Shower SPA Show in Las Vegas creates huge excitement for EuroSpa 100% pure eucalyptus...
Gift for A Loved One Anytime, Any Occasion - Keep One for Yourself and Save!!
New Eucalyptus Oil Shower Spray Twin Pack Increases the Joy of Giving Eucalyptus Oil Spray Mist - Buy on Amazon http://bit.ly/2EOM...
15 Powerful Ways Menthol Crystals Can Change the Quality of Your Life!
Menthol Crystals are a diamond level cure for so many of your body's ailments and you deserve to know what they are. Do you suffer...
Unique Gift Idea - Eucalyptus Oil Shower Mist and Steam Room Spray
Great Gift Idea - Eucalyptus Oil Show Mist at Amazon Want Someone to Think of You All Year Long - Here's the Gift that Keeps on...
Give Your Sweetheart the Unique Gift of Eucalyptus Shower Mist for Any Occasion
Birthday, Christmas, Mother's Day, or Just Because Day Your Soul Mate Will Thank You Every Day for this Amazing Present Any...
Steam Room Benefits to Your Health and Well Being
Sauna benches (Photo credit: Matti Mattila ) Steam Rooms Promote Physical, Emotional, and Spiritual Wellness...Even Before You Add Euca...
Who Deserves 100% Pure Eucalyptus Shower Spray Mist? Everyone You Care About
Give the Gift Koala's Love Not Sure What To Buy as a Gift? Eucalyptus Oil Could Help Reduce Your Shopping Anxiety You turn on...
Eucalyptus Successfully Used in Fight to Control Malaria
Eucalyptus Hugely Successful Against Malaria for Two Reasons The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation intends to finish off dreaded Mal...
Need An Energy Boost? This Natural Solution Will Wake You Up FAST!
We all know the drill so well. The alarm clock goes off, we roll over to turn it off and have no clue how we're going to wake up without...
50 Most Amazing Eco Spas in the World - Prevention Mag
The Spa at Mohonk Mountain House - Provided by www.prevention.com How About a Little Spa Hopping Vacation - Here's A Year'...
Twitter
Facebook
Eurospa Aromatics
Promote Your Page Too
Home Shower Size - 2 oz & 8 oz Now at Amazon
Now enjoy the same aromatic benefits in your home shower that you expect from your local steam room
Categories
acne (5)
air freshener (1)
Allergies (8)
anti-aging (12)
Anti-inflammatory (15)
antibacterial (6)
aroma therapy (18)
Aromatherapy (15)
Athlete's foot (3)
back pain (5)
beauty (3)
benefits of Eucalyptus Oil (26)
benefits of menthol crystals (4)
best spas (7)
bronchitis (5)
bug bites (2)
caffeine (6)
cineole (14)
cold and flu (3)
cold sores (1)
cough (2)
detox (4)
Eucalyptus Oil (137)
eurospa (96)
fibromyalgia (4)
glowing skin (13)
hair health (4)
hay fever (4)
headaches (3)
health benefits of saunas (2)
health benefits of steam rooms (4)
home remedies (20)
menstrual cramps (2)
mental fatigue (4)
menthol crystals (11)
mentholyptus (15)
mildew (5)
mold (5)
Montage Laguna Beach (1)
mosquito bites (1)
muscle strain (1)
natural cleaning recipes (2)
natural first aid (1)
nausea relief (6)
pain relief (9)
reduce stress (4)
respiratory health (5)
shower mist (4)
shower spray (3)
sinus infection (8)
sinusitis (5)
spa (22)
steam bath (17)
steam room (58)
stress (6)
sunburn (3)
wellness (4)
Pages
Home
About Eucalyptus
Immune System
Respiratory
Pain Relief
Insects & Bugs
Skin & Beauty
Home & Spa
Shop
Contact Us
Snyder Manufacturing
Address: 1541 W. Cowles St
Long Beach, CA 90813
tel: 1-800-395-6478
www.EurospaAromatics.com
email: eric@snydermanufacturing.com
Thanks for Visiting
We are manufacturers of the Mystifier Automatic Injection System, designed to inject 100% pure Eucalyptus Oil directly into the steam generation systems in Steam Rooms
Our Official Website
EuroSpa Aromatics
Most Recent Posts
Recent Posts Thumbnails Blogger Widget
Your browser does not support JavaScript!
Locate Us
View Larger Map
Pump Aromatic Eucalyptus Oil Directly into Your Steam Room for Healing & Disinfecting
The Amazing and Long History of Eucalyptus Oil as Aromatherapy
How Much Does It Cost To Run Eucalyptus Oil In A Steam Room?
Eucalyptus Oil - 16 oz. Trigger Spray Bottle of Suprema Eucalyptus Blend for Home
Eurospa Aromatics Produces 3 Blends of 100% Natural Eucalyptus Oil
Eurospa Aromatics Introduces Their Mystifier Eucalyptus Oil injection System
Should You Use Mentholyptus Blend of Eucalyptus Oil in Your Steam Room
The Amazing Benefits of Menthol Crystals
Blog Archive
► 2017 (7)
► October (1)
► February (3)
► January (3)
► 2016 (53)
► December (2)
► November (4)
► October (5)
► September (4)
► August (4)
► July (3)
► June (3)
► May (4)
► April (4)
► March (2)
► February (6)
► January (12)
▼ 2015 (62)
► December (6)
▼ November (8)
Winter Hack: Natural Ways to Keep Your Body Warm A...
Escape the Stress and Turn Your Shower Into A Tota...
Be Sinus Pressure Free for Thanksgiving with This ...
Make the Most of Your Sauna Experience with These ...
The Natural Flu-Fighting Solutions that Keeps You ...
EASY Ways Eucalyptus Will Help You Stay Healthy an...
Skip the Confusion. We Have the Perfect Christmas ...
Surprising Ways OXYGEN Can Heal You & How to Get M...
► October (4)
► September (2)
► August (2)
► July (5)
► June (3)
► May (5)
► April (7)
► March (7)
► February (6)
► January (7)
► 2014 (81)
► December (4)
► November (6)
► October (9)
► September (7)
► August (8)
► July (6)
► June (8)
► May (9)
► April (9)
► March (7)
► February (7)
► January (1)
► 2013 (46)
► December (1)
► November (4)
► October (1)
► September (1)
► August (1)
► July (3)
► June (12)
► May (11)
► April (10)
► March (2)
► 2012 (1)
► July (1)
► 2011 (19)
► September (1)
► August (12)
► July (1)
► February (5)
► 2010 (1)
► November (1)
Followers
Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.