Evening Primrose Oil for face and skin use
Contact
Sponsored articles
Privacy policy
MENU
Menu
Diets for weight loss
Health
Ketogenic diet
BMI Calculator
Ketogenic diet menu for easy weight loss health Evening Primrose Oil for face and skin use
Evening Primrose Oil for face and skin use
health
EVENING PRIMROSE OIL USE AND APPLICATION
By now you have probably heard of evening primrose oil and saw it at pharmacies and health food stores. And do you know that it really can do a lot for your health? This plant came from North America, where it was grown on sandy soil. In some parts it is planted in gardens as an ornamental plant, and many people nevertheless are not familiar with it as very powerful and medicinal plant. Below you can read about all the medicinal properties of evening primrose.
What are the medicinal properties of yellow primrose?
The Latin name for the yellow primrose is Oenothera biennis, which is a biennial plant, bush shaped and reaches the heights up to 150 cm. Yellow flowers open in the third month and remain open throughout the night, so the plant got the name after this phenomenon. The plant primrose attracts a lot of insects and moths, and before dawn the flowers wither, but the very next evening adorn the new plant. Healing part of evening primrose is leaf, flower, root and seed. The flowers and leaves are dried and the root is removed in the fall. The root is cut into small pieces and dried, and it can be used and cooked. Primrose seeds are most commonly used as a seasoning for dishes.
Indians have traditionally used it as a natural remedy to relieve skin problems, healing wounds, asthma, flu and colds. Although it was used since the eighties it was confirmed that evening primrose oil contains about 70 percent unsaturated fatty acids, 10 percent of which are gamma-linoleic acids. By publishing this information, this plant become popular overnight. Gamma-linoleic acid, strengthens the immune system, regulating the synthesis and secretion of hormones and protects the cells from damage and premature aging. Since there is no plant that contains this acid in such
quantities, yellow primrose is considered its richest source.
Evening primrose oil also contains the alpha-linoleic acid which is unsaturated and is essential for the body because our body cannot produce it independently. They "keep the brain", strengthen the nerves, and protect the entire cardiovascular system and blood vessels. Primrose oil is used to lower cholesterol in all forms of diabetes, hyperactivity in children, the atherosclerotic lesions, improves brain function, lowers the anxiety and fear, helps the work of thyroid gland, fights against consequences of radiation, angina pectoris, HIV, Parkinson's disease, pain in the stomach and abdomen, and helps in the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
Also, it successfully helps in the treatment of alcoholism and with unpleasant PMS symptoms that occur before menstruation, as well as in menopause. Due to lack of essential fatty acids that lead to inflammatory changes in the skin, evening primrose helps with chronic inflammation such as psoriasis and eczema, scabies, allergies and neuro-dermatitis.
How to use evening primrose oil for face
It has long been known that lack of essential fatty acids can lead to various skin problems. Psoriasis, eczema, neuro-dermatitis, age changes, problems with pigmentation, various burns, wounds, allergic reactions, acne appearing on the skin, they all appear because of the lack of essential fatty acids in our body.
As medicinal evening primrose oil is rich just in them, it is no wonder that its application in patients with multiple skin problems showed progress for the better, and this has been confirmed by numerous studies. Most women, but also men complain about the appearance of dry skin. These conditions as we age, deteriorate, and they contribute to the modern way of life all the more. The reason for this is the decrease in natural protection of the skin and loss of water from the body.
Due to the inability to sustain the hydration, then it occurs de-pigmented dry skin full of acne, which loses its elasticity. Dryness can be a certain genetic predisposition but also bad eating habits. It is most often subject to problems such as eczema, seborrhoea, and dermatitis. The content of gamma-linoleic acid in the oil can help the proper functioning of the skin barrier, as well as normalize the trans-epidermal water loss.
It was observed that pure evening primrose oil improves the general condition of the skin, which shows more and better smoothness and elasticity, this beneficial oil reduces wrinkles, and smaller number of inflammatory processes and there are less differences in pigmentation. It successfully promotes faster healing of wounds and burns.
How good is evening primrose oil in capsules?
Cold pressing of the ripe seeds gets the highest quality oil. If clinically tested it can be used for oral administration. As a rule, the dose is one teaspoon three times a day after meals. To enhance the effect doctors advise parallel consumption of vitamins C and B6, magnesium and zinc with the oil. After taking a cycle that lasts 21 days, you should take a break at least for two weeks.
The mixture of evening primrose oil and rosacea for skin care and acne
Herbalists for the above mentioned ailments recommend the following mixture:
4 drops of essential oil of busine,
6 drops of essential oil of the seeds of carrots,
4 drops of essential oil of German chamomile,
4 drops of essential oil of Roman chamomile,
20 ml of macerate in almonds,
5 ml of vegetable fruit of the wild rose.
5 ml of Evening Primrose Oil
All of the above ingredients mix and apply on the skin twice a day. Evening primrose oil in this combination can only help. Many of the positive effects of evening primrose on the health of the skin read bellow:
Therapeutical effect on dermatitis, psoriasis, seborrhoea,
Hydrates dry skin,
The skin is elastic,
It helps with the roughness,
It reduces fine lines and wrinkles,
Rejuvenates it,
Reduce dark circles under his eyes
It helps with faster healing of burns and wounds,
Soothes allergic reactions,
It can help in reducing inflammation, which is caused by skin disorders like rosacea,
Reduces redness,
How to use evening primrose oil for your skin?
Methods of administration as well as the recommended daily dose of evening primrose oil depends on the type of therapy. Recommendations relating to the health of the skin are as follows:
For the treatment of acne and inflammatory conditions of the skin: Take evening primrose oil capsules (500 mg) up to 3 times daily with meals.
For eczema: Adults need to take 1000 mg three times a day, and children between 4-12 years can use up to 500 mg 3 times a day.
For dry, flaky and saborrheic skin take 500 mg 2-3 times a day with meals. The oil of evening primrose can be applied locally by piercing the capsule and rubbing the oil into the skin.
Evening primrose oil as a substitute for hormones
Yellow primrose works great on the female body, especially because it relieves menstrual cramps (reduces the frequency of night sweats, chills and heat - hot flashes), painful and irregular periods, helps women in menopause. This is the reason why it is used as a substitute for hormone therapy. Relieves breast sensitivity, also prevents their swelling and bloating.
One research in the UK included 70 women who previously failed to get rid of the discomfort and pain that occurred from month to month. Using 2 capsules 3 times daily showed that 57% of patients had completely ceased to feel unpleasant symptoms.
Evening primrose oil is great for polycystic ovaries, and in the regulation of hormones-estrogen and testosterone. It is also one of the main allies in the fight against impotence and infertility in women and men. It promotes better blood flow and for this purpose it is used in combination with vitamin C.
Evening primrose oil can also help women who have problems to conceive, because it strengthens the function of the uterus. Primrose oil is drunk until ovulation.
Evening primrose oil experiences in application and dosing
Evening primrose oil is tested and safe to use. Consumption is recommended for a longer period.
In children under the age of one year it is not recommended for oral use.
Adults are recommended 4-6 grams or one small teaspoon three times a day during meals, children who are under 12 years up to 4 grams.
If you decide to take evening primrose oil capsules you may want to swallow them after meals with plenty of fluids. Visible improvements after drinking primrose oil will be shown after 4-12 weeks. It is recommended to take a break after.
Evening primrose oil against alcoholism
Taking evening primrose can be very useful in the fight against alcoholism, which is often associated with depression. The alcohol prevents the conversion of linoleic acid to GLA, in people who have this problem the amount of prostaglandin E1 is reduced, which leads to depression. On the other hand it encourages the consumption of alcohol. Besides reducing depression, evening primrose oil reduces the desire for alcoholic beverages. And we all know that alcohol destroys the liver and kidneys, while this oil preserves them by blocking enzymes that are caused by alcohol.
Does the evening primrose oil cause side effects?
The medical literature describes few side effects. These are indigestion, increased nausea, diarrhoea and severe headache. In the event of overdose a phenomenon of abdominal pain can occur, and with it you do not need any special treatment, but you need to stop with the prescribed therapy.
Toxicological testing has shown that evening primrose oil is not toxic but due to security, use during pregnancy should be avoided. It can be used during breastfeeding, because it has two basic components that are used in food.
Oral use should not be used with drugs such as phenothiazine, because it improves the functioning of tamoxifen and reduces the toxicity of cyclosporine A.
Primrose oil protects the nerves from damage and is welcomed by people suffering from disorders that have a negative impact on brain chemistry. Studies have shown that evening primrose oil can have a very beneficial effect in controlling symptoms in people who are suffering from multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease.
How to make primrose tea
To make this tea we need:
one teaspoon of dried evening primrose leaves,
two and a half decilitres of boiling water,
one teaspoon of good quality honey.
Chopped dry leaves pour with boiling water and let them stand covered for 10 minutes. Warm, filtered and sweetened tea drink 3 times a day.
Where to buy evening primrose oil and what is the price?
Evening primrose oil can be found in all well stocked herbal pharmacies and health food stores in bottles of 30 ml at a price of up to 2 dollars. The capsules can also be found in pharmacies.
Buy evening primrose oil only from trusted manufacturers and be sure to be keep them in a dry, cool, dark place.
Share this
Related Posts
Next
« Prev Post
Previous
Next Post »
Popular Posts
Climate change on Earth
Nail changes on hands
Lower back pain in women
Pistachios are the healthiest snacks
The best teas for immunity against flue and colds
How to get rid of ants using natural means without chemistry
GASTRITIS DIET MENU
Trans-fats in the diet | good and bad cholesterol in the blood
Gallstone symptoms | treatment | nutrition | diet
MORNING BANANA DIET
Copyright © Ketogenic diet menu for easy weight loss All Right Reserved |
Created by Arlina Design
| Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates