Best yoga poses to treat asthma naturally at home - Breathing exercises
Skip to content
Top Menu
April 20, 2019
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
We are accepting sponsored blog posts
Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
Medicinal plants and their uses
HOME
Indian medicinal plants
Home remedies
Yoga poses
Superfood
Health Tips & News
Flowers photos
Search for:
Main Menu
Home » Yoga exercises & meditation for all » Best yoga poses to treat asthma
Best yoga poses to treat asthma
May 6, 2017 November 9, 2017 - by Anoop Sharma - Leave a Comment
Twitter G + Facebook Reddit Linkedin Pinterest
Asthma affects the airway. Congestion and inflammation affect the normal breathing. You can use yoga asanas to get quick relief from asthma using exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. It also helps other kinds of asthmas.
Yoga is based on a scientific approach to controlling the metabolism. The yoga asanas target a specific group of internal organs and stimulate them. For this reason, you should use the prescribed yoga asana in the way they tell you to.
Best yoga poses to treat asthma
Savasana – Corpse pose
Benefits of doing Savasana
First, it helps you get relief from your asthma. It relieves constipation and helps improve your digestion. You get a sharper thinking and the stress leaves your body. The blood circulation is improved and the nerve health becomes better.
Undoubtedly, one of the easiest yoga asanas, the Corpse pose does sound intriguing but is simple to do.
Method of doing Savasana
Begin in the lying down pose. Keep your hands by your side with palms facing up.
Relax your legs push the feet down and pull in your inner core.
Inhale and tighten your shoulder blades and push towards each other.
Exhale and loosen your muscles and slow your breathing. Keep your eyes closed.
Feel the energy dissipate through the soles of your feet and the top of your head. Keep your eyes neutral.
Stay in this position for 10-15 minutes. You can do some meditation – say a daffodil in the field or a chant that fills your mind with sound – this will enhance your Corpse pose.
Everyone can do this yoga asana and you have no reason to avoid this. This is a restorative asana which you must do at least once a day.
Also Read: Home remedies for asthma
Anulom Vilom – Alternate nostril breathing
Benefits of doing Anulom Vilom
This helps you regulate your breathing and this helps your asthma. It has beneficial effect on the heart health and boosts your energy. Your focus improves and you have improved stamina.
This is a simple exercise without much movement. You can master this once you do it two or three times.
Method of doing Anulom Vilom
Begin in the seated position on your mat. Cross your legs one over the other.
Keep the spine erect. Rest your hands on your lap.
Close your left nostril with your right-hand index finger. Now, breathe in through your right nostril.
Hold your breath for a count of 10.
Now, let go of the left nostril and close the right nostril with the thumb. Exhale through your left nostril.
Repeat these steps 10 times changing nostrils every time you repeat.
Everyone can do this without any problem.
Uttanasana – Standing forward bend pose
Benefits of doing Uttanasana
This stretches the hamstrings, calves, and hips. It improves your abs and eases the symptoms of asthma. The neural activity improves and the stress leaves your body. Your spine gets strength.
This asana involves bending and so may not suit those who are overweight. Yet, the benefits are good and you will begin to breathe better after doing this exercise. This exercise increases the blood flow to the brain and tones the abdominal organs. It strengthens the hip and knee joint.
Method of doing Uttanasana
Stand in Tadasana and keep your legs apart as wide as your hips.
Pull the kneecaps up and point your toes forward.
Inhale and raise your hands up to the ceiling. Push the spine towards the ceiling, keep your palms facing to the front.
Bend at the waist and bring your hands down to the floor. Feel the stretch of the spine.
Press your head into the shin and grab your ankles. Stretch your hamstrings and hold the pose for at least one minute.
Breathe deeply and rise up to normal standing position again.
Avoid this exercise if you have any back or leg injury.
Setu bandha Sarvangasana – Bridge pose
Benefits of doing Setu bandha Sarvangasana
Helps prevent arterial blockages and cardia arrest. Increases the blood flow through the arteries. It expands the chest and soothes the brain. You get relief from depression, hypertension, and fluctuating blood pressure. It improves digestion and prevents varicose veins.
Method of doing Setu bandha Sarvangasana
Begin from the sleeping position on the yoga mat. Keep your hands by your side.
Stretch your legs and tighten the calf and thigh muscles. Point your toes in the direction of the wall facing you.
Relax and inhale, bring your foot towards your buttocks when you bend your knee.
Press with the palms down on the floor and raise your torso up from your shoulders.
Now, you can clasp the palms together by lacing the finger together. Raise your thighs in line with the knee.
Your chest and your hips press up to the ceiling. Your belly button will press against your core firmly.
Tighten your leg muscle again and inhale deeply.
Now, slowly exhale and bring your body to the exercise mat.
The entire cycle should take 3-5 minutes when you are a beginner. As time progresses, you should increase this time to 8-10 minutes.
Avoid doing this exercise if you have problems with the back or the legs. If you have any injury, you must wait until they heal until you try to exercise.
Ustrasana – Camel pose
Benefits of Ustrasana
This opens your chest and shoulders and helps clear the airways. It boosts the energy and helps you get revitalized. It tightens the quadriceps and adds strength to the inner core.
Method of doing Ustrasana
Kneel down on the mat with your hands by your side.
Raise your hands to your hips and bend your waist over backward so you look back. Exhale as you stretch your thigh, midriff, and expand your chest.
Lift the sternum up while applying force on the shoulder blades.
Press down on your heels with your palms. Push the trapezium muscle in between the shoulder blades to rise against your spine.
Concentrate on your core and bring your gaze to the tip of your nose. Keep it neutral and relax the forehead.
Inhale and tighten the core and maintain the pose for 30 seconds.
Relax and come back to the starting position.
Yoga Asana is a wonderful way to become healthy. If you do not see the results at once, persist for a week more. However, if you feel any pain or develop headaches, then stop doing the exercise.
References
http://www.stylecraze.com/
http://www.everydayhealth.com/
http://www.thehealthsite.com/
Share On Social sites
Twitter G + Facebook Reddit Linkedin Pinterest
Subscribe to our mailing list to get amazing health tips
* indicates required
Email Address *
Related Posts:
Best yoga asanas for eyesight improvement naturally
Best yoga asanas for stomach problems and better digestion
Yoga poses to avoid high blood pressure and hypertension
Best yoga poses for insomnia and sleep disorder
Best yoga asanas to cure cold & cough
Yoga asanas for healthy skin and fair complexion – Skin care
Post navigation
Previous Article Best yoga asanas to cure cold & cough
Next Article Water and Walking as a good medicine for health
About Anoop Sharma
Anoop Sharma is an IT professional, freelance health writer and creator of www.medicinalplantsanduses.com. He is passionate about helping others learn about health issues and their natural remedies, yoga and healthy food.
View all posts by Anoop Sharma →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search Anything
Search for:
Subscribe to our mailing list to get amazing health tips
* indicates required
Email Address *
Popular
Comments
Tags
8 Effective home remedies for constipation in adults
February 16, 2017 November 1, 2018
Amla (Indian Gooseberry) plant medicinal uses, benefits and photos
January 30, 2017 July 8, 2017
Piles treatment at home, symptoms and causes of hemorrhoids
January 12, 2017 November 20, 2018
Aconitum ferox medicinal uses, images and side effects
January 2, 2017 December 1, 2017
11 amazing health benefits of ragi (finger millet) and side effects
January 6, 2018 April 17, 2019
ACHUT DIVEKAR - Andrographis paniculata (kalmegh) medicinal uses, side effects and photos
I found this site gives the scientific information.Non medical,literate persons also will understand it very...
Anoop Sharma - Abelmoschus ficulneus medicinal uses, information and images
Hello Sunil, Wild bhendi is not that helpful in curing the liver cancer but its...
Takale sunil laxman - Abelmoschus ficulneus medicinal uses, information and images
what is the use of wild bhendi in curing the liver cancer
Anoop Sharma - How flax seeds can help to control blood glucose level and manage diabetes?
You can find Flaxseeds in any supermarket or you can buy at amazon online. Here...
Robinson Kabanda - How flax seeds can help to control blood glucose level and manage diabetes?
Thanks a lot for de communication, and how one can get those seeds.
No tags created.
Latest Posts
11 Amazing benefits of figs, nutrition content and side effects (anjeer fruit)
April 20, 2019
10 Health Benefits of Turnip Juice, Nutritional Facts and Recipes
April 13, 2019 April 13, 2019
6 Juice recipes to help you fall asleep in under 20 minutes
April 11, 2019 April 11, 2019
Top 12 Home Remedies to Treat Hyperpigmentation on Skin
April 6, 2019 April 6, 2019
Why Green Tea Is Making You Fat … And Why You Should Be Drinking Red Tea Instead?
April 4, 2019
Important Pages
Contact Us
Disclaimer and Affiliate Disclosure
Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
Categories
Homepage
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
We are accepting sponsored blog posts
Questions
What should you avoid doing at 6 weeks of pregnancy? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
How do I get pregnant quickly? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
Is giving birth in water less painful than giving birth in a hospital? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
If my wife goes into labor, what should I have packed and ready to go? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
What are early signs of pregnancy? 1 Answer | 0 Votes
How can I be sure if I am pregnant or not? 0 Answers | 0 Votes
I’m sleeping too much in my pregnancy, could that be harmful for the baby in any way? 0 Answers | 0 Votes
Latest Articles
11 Amazing benefits of figs, nutrition content and side effects (anjeer fruit)
10 Health Benefits of Turnip Juice, Nutritional Facts and Recipes
6 Juice recipes to help you fall asleep in under 20 minutes
Top 12 Home Remedies to Treat Hyperpigmentation on Skin
Why Green Tea Is Making You Fat … And Why You Should Be Drinking Red Tea Instead?
Categories
Flowers photos (2)
Health Tips & News (73)
Home remedies (143)
Indian medicinal plants and rare medicinal herbs (158)
Superfoods (84)
Yoga exercises & meditation for all (45)
All the tips mentioned here are strictly informational. This site does not provide medical advice. Consult with your doctor or other health care provider before using any of these tips or treatments. Some of the links on this website are affiliate links, which means that I may earn a commission if you click on the link or make a purchase using the link. When you make a purchase, the price you pay will be the same whether you use the affiliate link or go directly to the vendor’s website using a non-affiliate link.
2017-18 © www.medicinalplantsanduses.com