L-Theanine and Depression | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
L-Theanine and Depression
Ashley Miller
About the Author:
Ashley Miller
Ashley Miller is a licensed social worker, psychotherapist, certified Reiki practitioner, yoga enthusiast and aromatherapist. She has also worked as an employee assistance program counselor and a substance-abuse professional. Miller holds a Master of Social Work and has extensive training in mental health diagnosis, as well as child and adolescent psychotherapy. She also has a bachelor's degree in music.
View Full Profile
Depression is a health problem of epidemic proportions. According to PBS, major depression affects around 15 million American adults each year. While psychotherapy and medication can help, certain medications can cause serious or unpleasant side effects. In an attempt to find natural alternative to medications, some researchers are busy trying to prove the benefits of certain herbal supplements, such as L-theanine, for depression.
A middle-aged woman with a hot drink in her hand stares out of the window looking depressed. (Image: a-poselenov/iStock/Getty Images)
About L-theanine
L-theanine is an amino acid compound found in tea leaves, however, it has also been isolated from a species of edible mushroom known as Boletus badius, according to Drugs.com. Although clinical research is still limited, some believe that using l-theanine, either through drinking tea or in supplemental form, can help you relax without the drowsiness and other negative side effects of other sedative-type herbs and drugs. L-theanine is extracted from tea leaves to make over-the-counter supplements, sold in either capsule or tablet form. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, L-theanine has been studied for its potential calming effects on the nervous system.
Depression and Conventional Treatments
Depression isn't the same as feeling sad or down in the dumps. It is a real medical disorder that affects your entire life, manifesting in serious symptoms such a chronic sadness, fatigue, irritability, tension, muscle aches and pains, sleep problems, appetite changes and a lack of interest in activities you once enjoyed. In serious cases, depression can lead to suicide. Although depression is one of the most common mental health problems in the world, almost 80 percent of depressed people do not receive treatment. The causes of depression aren't exactly known, however, some researchers believe an imbalance in the brain neurotransmitter serotonin may be to blame. In an effort to resolve this imbalance, doctors typically prescribe antidepressant medications, often in combination with psychotherapy or other psychosocial interventions. Certain dietary supplements, however, may also provide a number of benefits for people suffering from depression. In particular, a few clinical studies have shown the benefits of the dietary supplement L-theanine for depression.
Clinical Evidence
Many depressed people have difficulty relaxing and letting go of stress. A review, published in the July 2004 issue of the journal, "Complementary and Alternative Therapies," showed that L-theanine induced alpha brain waves and a sense of relaxation in study participants. Furthermore, a study published on March 22, 2011 in the online version of the journal, "Free Radical Research" showed that L-theanine had a beneficial effect on behavioral depression in laboratory mice. A cross-sectional study, published in the November 2009 issue of the "American Journal of Clinical Nutrition," showed that people who regularly drink at least five cups or more of green tea daily suffer from a decreased amount of psychological distress. Another study, published in the March 21, 2011 online edition of the journal, "Phytotherapy Research," showed that L-theanine had an antidepressant effect on laboratory mice exposed to a forced swim test. While these results are promising, more research is needed to fully confirm the benefits of L-theanine for depression.
Considerations
Although drinking green tea or using an L-theanine supplement may help depression, you should not use any dietary supplement without consulting your doctor. If you think you are depressed, do not attempt to self-diagnose your condition. Consult your doctor or a qualified mental health practitioner to discuss treatment option. Depression can become worse if not properly treated. Do not use dietary supplements in place of your doctor's advice. Do not stop taking any prescribed antidepressants or other medications unless directed to do so by your doctor.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
PBS.org: Depression Statistics
Drugs.com: L-Theanine
University of Maryland Medical Center: Green Tea
"Complementary and Alternative Therapies"; 200mg of Zen: L-Theanine Boosts Alpha Waves, Promotes Alert Relaxation; R. Mason; July 2004
"Free Radical Research"; Theanine Intake Improves Lifespan...; K. Unno, et al; March 22, 2011 (online)
"American Journal of Clinical Nutrition"; Green Tea Consumption...; A. Hozawa, et al; Nov. 2009
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Herbal Teas for Depression
2
Acute Depression Symptoms
3
Peppermint Oil for Anxiety & Depression
4
What Are the Benefits of Lexapro?
5
Glutamine & Depression
6
What Time of Day Should I Take 5 HTP?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.