Feel Relaxed, Focused & Refreshed with Theanine
Free Membership Offer! Receive free email newsletters about healthy living, our store and more.
Your E-mail:
My Account
Contact Us
Feel Relaxed, Focused & Refreshed with Theanine
L-theanine is a relaxing amino acid found primarily in green tea. It induces relaxation without causing drowsiness and may help reduce stress, improve sleep, and boost concentration.
Theanine affects various neurotransmitters in the brain, including serotonin, dopamine, and GABA, which regulate mood, alertness, and sleep as well as energy and other cognitive skills. It reduces the levels of chemicals in the brain linked to stress and anxiety, which helps counter the stimulating effect of the caffeine in tea. At the same time, it works with caffeine to promote concentration. The result? A calm alertness, without the jitters.
L-theanine's effects on the brain may also be beneficial for people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In a study of 91 individuals with MCI, those given a green tea-theanine supplement combination showed improvements in memory and attention compared to subjects given a placebo. Researchers noted an increase in brain theta waves, an indicator of cognitive alertness, in people taking the green tea-theanine.
By lowering stress and increasing relaxation, theanine can promote restful sleep. It may help you fall asleep more quickly and easily, and researchers report improved sleep quality, recovery from exhaustion, and refreshed feelings in individuals taking L-theanine. Evidence suggests that theanine may also improve sleep quality in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
The antioxidant effects of L-theanine provide benefits to the cardiovascular system. Research finds that L-theanine promotes the production of nitric oxide, a compound that causes the blood vessels to dilate, in the linings of the arteries. This helps reduce blood pressure and decreases the risk for heart disease.
L-theanine is found in tea leaves in low concentrations, so a supplement will ensure an effective dosage. L-theanine is generally safe and well tolerated, but it may interact with some medications, such as those for high blood pressure.
© 2017 GeniusCentral Systems
Printable Version E-mail a Friend
Back
Search Site
Entire SiteProductsReference RoomHealthy RecipesNews & Features
Home
Store Locations
High Blood Pressure
Events Calendar
About Our Store
Reference Room
Health Calculators
Conditions & Allergies
Health & Wellness
Vitamins & Minerals
Diet
Functional Foods
Beauty
Therapies
Children's Health
Adolescent's Health
Women's Health
Men's Health
Senior's Health
Genetics
Drugs
News & Features
Healthy Recipes
Ingredient Glossary
Health-E-Coupons
Coupons
Beem's Nutrition Chesterley
Yakima & Union Gap
Yakima, WA 98902
More Info
3715 W River Road
Drive North on 40th Ave make a right at McDonalds.
Yakima, WA 98902
509-452-2400
509-452-2400 (fax)
Email Our Store
Driving Directions
STORE HOURS
Mon 10:00 AM - 6 PM
Tue 10:00 AM - 6 PM
Wed 10:00 AM - 6 PM
Thu 10:00 AM - 6 PM
Fri 10:00 AM - 6 PM
Sat 10:00 AM - 6 PM
Sun 12 AM - 5 PM
Yakima & Union Gap Online Coupons' src='/images/module_online_coupons.gif' border='0' width='140' Height='150'>
Yakima & Union Gap health tools' src='/images/module_access_health.gif' border='0' width='140' Height='150'>
Rice Pilaf with Lentils
I have tried making this pilaf by cooking the rice and lentils together...
Home | Store Locations | High Blood Pressure | Events Calendar | About Our Store | Reference Room | News & Features | Healthy Recipes | Health-E-Coupons | Coupons | My Email Subscription | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
All contents © Copyright 1999-2019 Genius Central and Beem's Nutrition Chesterley
Yakima & Union Gap. All rights reserved. This internet site is hosted by Genius Central, a Web site service provider to natural health stores nationwide. Genius Central and Beem's Nutrition Chesterley
Yakima & Union Gap have no means of independently evaluating the safety or functionality of the products offered by their suppliers and affiliates and thus can neither endorse nor recommend products. Information presented is of a general nature for educational and informational purposes only. Statements about products and health conditions have not been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration. Products and information presented herein are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Your use of this site indicates your agreement to be bound by our Terms and Conditions