Defining "Better" & Improving Even More (I Think) After a Magnesium Infusion - The Daily Headache
Home
About
Archives
Resources
Contact
-- Main Menu --HomeAboutArchivesResourcesContact
Mar
16
By Kerrie Smyres
Defining “Better” & Improving Even More (I Think) After a Magnesium Infusion
Category: Coping, Meds & Supplements, Symptoms, Treatment Tags: hope, magnesium, magnesium infusion, migraine, triptans 7 Comments
I’ve been “better” since going up to 700 mgs of magnesium on February 7, but I, like always, am struggling to explain what that means. I met with my headache specialist yesterday and had to encapsulate my improvement in a short, concise statement. I said that the severity and duration of the migraines has lessened, but I haven’t noticed much difference in my quality of life. That I definitely feel better, but that hasn’t translated to increased productivity. (Not productivity as in producing widgets in a factory, but in getting my butt off the couch and getting basic things done.)
I know I am better because I can usually shower without having to rest afterward. When I do have to take time to recuperate, like Wednesday night, it seems that 10 minutes of rest is sufficient for me to then put on lotion (a huge chore when I feel bad) and get dressed. It has been more than a month since I’ve had to drag myself straight to bed post-shower. This is a major quality-of-life improvement for me, though not one that really leads to increased productivity.
The numbers from my headache diary show major improvement. The headache specialist looked the diary over and also remarked on the improvement. I have only hit a level 8 once since increasing the magnesium and it was for 10 very long hours. In an average week, I reach level 7 three times and it stays that high for about three hours. Compared to level 8 at least once a week and level 7 six hours a day, five days a week, the improvement does qualify as “major.” Unfortunately, when the baseline is “feeling-like-hell-and-can-barely-get-off-the-couch,” even major advances don’t take me very far.
Though the pain levels have improved, I’ve been struggling with significant nausea, fatigue and lethargy. The nausea may be the magnesium or it may be coincidence. The fatigue and lethargy may be migraine or the effects of Amerge, a triptan that I’ve started taking a lot more now that I’ve identified an occasional visual aura. Sorting out symptoms of the disease from side effects of the medications used to treat the illness is so complicated!
I took all this information to my headache specialist and his first reaction was, “Let’s give you an infusion of 1,000 mg of magnesium and see if that’s really what’s helping you.” I was thrilled and a little afraid: What if the magnesium, which I’ve regarded as magical, isn’t actually helping and my improvement is an unexplained fluke? On the other hand, maybe magnesium really is what my body needs and going in for weekly infusions will be the trick to getting my life back. With every new treatment, I try to keep myself from getting overly excited about the possibilities, though the secret hope is always that this will be “the one.”
Though getting an appointment at my headache clinic involves waiting lists, phone tag, and sometimes months of waiting, treatments move quickly. I was in the ambulatory infusion clinic an hour later and Marian the nurse was wrapping her lucky tourniquet around my arm. She claimed to sacrifice a chicken every morning to make the luck hold, but perhaps the ritual went awry yesterday. The first attempt at putting in the IV didn’t work and, following descriptions of my vein rolling under the needle (ick!), she had to try a second time. Once it was in, all I had to do was lie back in the cushy recliner, pull up the heated blankets (I seriously wonder how much a blanket warmer would cost), and play Words With Friends for an hour.
At the start of the infusion, the pain was a level 5 and I was tired and nauseated. We’d left the house at 8:20 a.m. and I had awoken with a migraine. I had managed to eat a few crackers so I could take my morning meds, plus I’d taken an Amerge and a Zofran, both of which make me sleepy. At the end of the infusion, the pain was down to level 4, but I was even more tired and had added grumpy and hungry to the list of complaints. I wasn’t sure if the magnesium infusion had done anything and was too scared of the potential ramifications to think much about it.
My sweet husband drove me home so I could eat and nap. As I fell asleep, I imagined the magnesium coursing through my veins, spreading out into my cells and improving their function. The cells, wearing party hats and throwing confetti, were drunk on mineral fortification. I woke from the nap with my pain at a level 3, where it stayed until 9 p.m., at which point it dropped to a 2(!). Today, I’m back to a 3, even through another aura (and Amerge and nap).
Could magnesium be the white knight who sweeps me off my feet and makes my dreams come true? Are my expectations too high this early in the relationship? If I let myself fall head over heels, will I pay the price in heartbreak?
OK, Kerrie, take some deep, soothing breaths and let go of the “what ifs.” I’m going to enjoy this respite for what it is, however long it will last. On the agenda: Prepping for a barbecue and making ice cream with friends tomorrow, drafting a blog post on the business Hart and I are starting, exercising, showering, enjoying the delightful smell of orange blossoms, and whatever fun activities strike my fancy.
7 Responses to Defining “Better” & Improving Even More (I Think) After a Magnesium Infusion
Moshfiqul Bari says:
March 17, 2012 at 10:21 am
Reply
Migraines are one of hardest kind of headaches to deal with. I myself have to deal with them. Anyways, you might want to know that there is what they call migraines food triggers such as the following:
– Alcohol
– Caffeine
– Chocolate
– Tyramine (found in red wine, beer, nuts, avocados, etc) and Tannins (common in apple juice, tea, etc)
– Food additives (something like monosodium glutamate also known as MSG) and artificial sweeteners (like Aspartame)
But this does not mean you can no longer have them AT ALL. It’s okay to indulge once in a while. As you know, the key is moderation. 🙂
Sue says:
March 18, 2012 at 2:17 pm
Reply
Yay to warm blankies!!!
I tried magnesium for a short time, but at a much lower dose. My family doc wasn’t terribly supportive, so I was kind of guessing on the dose….might be worth trying again.
I also read a recent article about IV lidocaine as an ER treatment when migraine is 8+ – apparently there have been good studies done that showed good results.
I’m always careful about the White Knight. I’ve been on the hope/disappointment roller coaster for so long, it’s hard for me to think “This is it!” Even my Botox success is time limited, so I measure my enthusiasm carefully. I totally get that!
VB says:
March 18, 2012 at 2:42 pm
Reply
Enjoy the better days! I hope they will last for a really long time!
Leanne says:
March 19, 2012 at 5:45 pm
Reply
My 16 year old daughter has had a migraine for 10 days now with pain at 8 and 9. She’s a tough one, so that is pretty bad. No school and just laying in bed. I, of course have been doing lots of “homework” researching. She seems to react to all the medicines with the bad side effects, yet no pain relief.
I just called her doctor to ask about the Magnesium infusion after reading this article
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11251702
that shows 85% success in a double blind study.
However, the immediate response from her doctor is “that’s not an option”.
Why is that? Its an article published on the NIH website – not some obscure alternative site. I am bringing the evidence to an appt on Wed but just wondering why the lack of support for a non-drug abortive. Any thoughts?
*******
It is a treatment option for some headache specialists and hospitals, but maybe it isn’t one that her doctor uses. Best of luck at the appointment. I hope she finds relief soon.
Take care,
Kerrie
Katie Burke says:
March 20, 2012 at 2:50 pm
Reply
Fantastic news!
Debbie says:
March 27, 2012 at 6:01 am
Reply
I started taking magnesium in December. It was a miracle. It didn’t last for me as a preventative. But now, through my headache journal I am better able to predict at least one day when the migraine will appear and I’m planning to up my magnesium that day for sure. Just FYI in case you haven’t heard it before, I also take feverfew, and petadolex (refined butterbur) which are supposed to really help us migraineurs!
Hoping you have extended relief!
Peggy Kaplan says:
April 17, 2016 at 5:15 am
Reply
I have had chronic migraine since September 2015, coinciding with chronic gastritis. I recently started daily IV magnesium infusions and had 5 migraine free days, the longest since September. My doctor has advised me to come off the PPIs for the stomach which can inhibit the absorption of magnesium. I also read the double blind study and it sounds pretty convincing. I’ve not had any negative side effects from the infusions.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me when new comments are added to this post.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Welcome to Kerrie Smyres' writings about chronic migraine, headache disorders, chronic illness & depression. Here you'll find coping strategies, resources, news & more to help you live a fabulous life with chronic illness.
Topics
30 Things Meme
Books & Products
Chronic Migraine
Community
Coping
Diet
Doctors
Exercise
Favorites
Friends & Family
Meds & Supplements
Mental Health
News & Research
Patient Education
Reader Stories
Resources
Society
Symptoms
Treatment
Triggers
© 2019 The Daily Headache
Powered by WordPress and the Designfolio Pro Theme.