How Does Minoxidil Help Hair Growth? - Dr. Prasad's Blog - Prasad Cosmetic Surgery
Manhattan (212) 265-8877
Garden City, Long Island (516) 742-4636
Vienna, Virginia (703) 356-1336
Prasad Cosmetic Surgery
Home
Dr. Prasad
Dr. Prasad – Aesthetic Philosophy
Ask Dr. Prasad
Patients
Skincare Shop
Patient Reviews
Accredited Surgical Facilities – Anesthesia Method
Legal History
Blog
Face & Eyes
FACELIFTS
Facelifts
The Y Lift®
Facelift Before and After Photos
Facelift Patient Video Profile
Vampire Facelift® – Liquid Stem Cell Facelift
EYELIFTS
Eyelift Before and After Photos
Almond Eyelid Surgery
Asian Eyelid Surgery
Upper Eyelid Surgery
Lower Eyelift
Eyelid Ptosis Surgery
Transconjunctival Blepharoplasty
Under Eye Fillers
Eyelid Surgery Revision Specialist
Thyroid Eye Disease
Tear Trough Implants
Eye Lift Questions and Answers
FACIAL SURGERY
Chin Augmentation
Double Chins
Dimple Creation Surgery
Fat Transfer/Fat Grafting
Necklift Rejuvenation
Ear Surgery – Otoplasty
Nose Job – Rhinoplasty
Facial Reconstructive Surgery
FAQ Videos
Lower Eyelid Surgery FAQ Videos
Upper Eyelid Surgery FAQ Videos
Hair Loss FAQ Videos
Ptosis FAQ Videos
You Asked Videos
Body
Breast Surgery
Liposuction
Double Chins
Mommy Makeover
Hand Rejuvenation
INJECTABLES
Lip Augmentation
Lip Enhancement Before and After Photos
Botox® Cosmetic
Platelet-Rich Plasma: (PRP)
Vampire Facelift®
Vampire Facial®
Under Eye Fillers
Dysport
Juvederm
Voluma®
Sculptra
Radiesse
Restylane
Selphyl (Natural Wrinkle Reduction)
Laser & Light Treatments
Facial Laser Skin Tightening
Body Laser Skin Tightening
Acne Scars Treatment
Tattoo Removal
Facials and Facial Peels
Hair Restoration
Hair Transplant
Hair Regeneration | Hair Transplant Alternative
Hair Restoration Before and After Portfolio
Hair Regeneration Case Studies
Understanding Hair Loss
Local Anesthesia with LITE IV Sedation for Hair Transplants
Hair Loss-FAQ videos
Photos
Hair Restoration Before and After Photos
Eyelift Before and After Photos
Upper Eyelift Surgery | Photos
Ptosis Before And After Photos
Facelift Before and After Photos
Lip Enhancement Before and After Photos
Contact Us
Contact Us
Skype Virtual Consultations
Virtual Pre-Consultation
Terms of Use
How Does Minoxidil Help Hair Growth?
Amiya Prasad M.D. March 22, 2019 Dr. Prasad's Blog
Minoxidil appears to work by affecting the length of the hair growth cycle. The hair growth cycle is comprised of specific stages: the anagen, catagen and telogen phases. The anagen phase is the active growing phase; the catagen phase is the resting phase when the hair is present but is not actively growing; and the telogen phase is when the hair sheds. During the telogen phase, there is a usually a 3-4 month time period before hair growth resumes.
Hair cycles include phases of active growth, shedding, resting, or regrowth
When your hair is thinning or you’re experiencing hair loss, the length of time in the anagen phase decreases, and time in the telogen phase increases. This means you are losing hair faster than the rate of regrowth. When hair is thinning and the hair does grow back, it often grows back thinner.
Minoxidil is an over-the-counter topical medication available under different brands names. Some medical practices offer higher concentrations of minoxidil in custom formulations.
Minoxidil appears to help hair loss by prolonging the active growth period or the anagen phase, which means that the hairs that are progressively thinning grow for a longer period of time, and delays the hair from shedding or entering the telogen phase. This results in the hair remaining on the scalp longer before shedding. This effect of delaying hair shedding, and prolonging hair growth improves scalp coverage. Minoxidil does not block dihydrotestosterone or DHT which is often an important variable contributing to hair thinning in men who are sensitive to DHT. The benefits of minoxidil on the hair growth and shedding cycle decreases as hair loss continues.
Hair Regeneration can improve scalp coverage over finasteride alone, while finasteride can extend the effectiveness of the Hair Regeneration treatment in men with high DHT-sensitivity
In our practice, we treat hair loss with a treatment system I developed, called TrichoStem Hair Regeneration. TrichoStem Hair Regeneration is a customized system I created by treating hundreds of patients from around the world with male and female pattern hair loss. I create customized treatment plans combining PRP (platelet rich plasma) with acellular matrix produced by ACell. Many of our patients who were previously using minoxidil are weaned off to avoid short term hair shedding. Since the first treatments performed in 2011, the benefits of TrichoStem Hair Regeneration have been sustained for 3-5 years with only 1 treatment session. Some patients with more advanced hair loss have a second treatment at 15-24 months. This second treatment which we refer to as “the booster” has been effective in thickening a large number of the thin hairs which were not visible and were reactivated by the first treatment
The TrichoStem Hair Regeneration treatment can thicken thinning hair and stimulate the growth of dormant hair follicles, without the need for minoxidil
During hair transplant surgery, hair is harvested from the genetically resistant zone or donor area. Typically, a certain percentage of hair grafts don’t grow. In addition, in an FUE (follicular unit extraction) procedure, there’s a loss involved due to transection which occurs when the graft is harvested but the root is left behind. In FUE surgery, approximately 30% of hairs become transected, which means that those hairs don’t have a root and cannot grow.
TrichoStem Hair Regeneration can improve scalp coverage by thickening native hair, and improve coverage for people who previously had hair transplant surgery.
Minoxidil can provide some benefit in helping men and women experiencing hair thinning. For men, finasteride is more effective as it decreases DHT (dihydrotestosterone) which allows more effective prolongation of the hair growth cycle. Finasteride is not generally effective for women with hair loss. TrichoStem Hair Regeneration treatment has been effective for both men and women with hair loss.
The effects of TrichoStem Hair Regeneration treatment on female pattern hair loss after a single treatment session, and without minoxidil
Go to top
Book An Appointment
Your Name (required)
Your Email (required)
Phone (required)
Area of Interest
---Breast AugmentationBody Contouring/ LiposuctionEye Bags/ Puffy EyesEye Surgery/ Revision SurgeryEye TreatmentFaceliftFacial RejuvenationHair RestorationNose ProcedureWrinkle/Skin TreatmentsDimple Creation Surgery / DimpleplastyEar Surgery/OtoplastyOther (please specify)
Questions/Comments
Ask Dr Prasad
Request A Consultation
---Breast AugmentationBody Contouring/ LiposuctionEye Bags/ Puffy EyesEye Surgery/ Revision SurgeryEye TreatmentFaceliftFacial RejuvenationHair RestorationNose ProcedureWrinkle/Skin TreatmentsDimple Creation Surgery / DimpleplastyEar Surgery/OtoplastyOther (please specify)
Please leave this field empty.
American Board of Cosmetic Surgery
American Society of Ophthalmic Plastic And Reconstructive Surgery
Joint-Commission-logo-Xsmall
AACS logo
American college of Surgeons
Dr. Amiya Prasad on Google+
How Does Minoxidil Help Hair Growth? - Dr. Prasad's Blog - Prasad Cosmetic Surgery
Sitemap New York City - 61 E 66th St New York City, NY 10065 - (212) 265-8877 | Garden City - 901 Stewart Ave Suite 206 Garden City, NY 11530 - (516) 742-4636 | Vienna, Virginia 1500 Cornerside Blvd., Tysons Medical West, Suite 510 Vienna, VA 22182 (703) 356-1336 / (703) 821-2683
Price Range: $200 - $9500
© 2018 Prasad Cosmetic Surgery.