Vitiligo | Favoriteplus.com Blog
BLOG | FAQ | SHIPPING | ABOUT US | CONTACT US | VIEW CART
Home
Psoriasis & Vitiligo Lamp
Dental Intraoral Camera
Low Vision Video Magnifier
ECG EKG Monitor
Pulse Oximeter
Search for:
Article Categories
Dental Camera
ECG
Eczema
Hypoxia
Phototherapy Lamps
Psoriasis
Pulse Oximeter
Vision Aids
Vitiligo
Tag Archives: Vitiligo
Are You Born with Vitiligo?
Posted on January 13, 2019 by favoriteplus
Vitiligo is an acquired skin disorder characterized by white spots. It is the total absence of pigment-producing cells in the skin called melanocytes.Who Gets Vitiligo?Vitiligo appears to affect at least 1% to 2% of the population, irrespective of sex, race, … Continue reading →
Posted in Vitiligo	| Tagged focal vitiligo, generalized vitiligo, Vitiligo	| 1 Comment
Vitamins for Vitiligo
Posted on September 20, 2018 by favoriteplus
Vitiligo is an autoimmune condition that damages cells that form the brown pigment in the skin, leading to a change of color. While there is no known cure for vitiligo, studies involving vitamin treatment have provided mixed results.Studies have shown … Continue reading →
Posted in Vitiligo	| Tagged cure for vitiligo, leukoderma, people with vitiligo, Vitiligo	| 1 Comment
How Does a Person Get Vitiligo?
Posted on October 14, 2017 by favoriteplus
Vitiligo is a long-term disorder where pale white patches develop on the skin. A deficiency in the skin pigment melanin is usually the primary cause. It can occur anywhere on the skin though it is common on the face, hands, … Continue reading →
Posted in Vitiligo	| Tagged phototherapy, Vitiligo, vitiligo treatment	| 1 Comment
Alternative Treatment for Vitiligo
Posted on May 22, 2013 by favoriteplus
Vitiligo is a pigmentation disorder in which the cells that make pigment in the skin (melanocytes) are disintegrated. Accordingly, white patches arise on the skin in various areas of the body. Similar patches may also be present on the mucus … Continue reading →
Posted in Phototherapy Lamps, Vitiligo	| Tagged alternative treatment for vitiligo, phototherapy for vitiligo, treating vitiligo, uvb lamps, Vitiligo	| 3 Comments
Comparison Review of Psoriasis, Vitiligo, Eczema UVB Lamps
Posted on May 7, 2013 by favoriteplus
Ultraviolet light treatment makes use of a specific band of the nonvisible light spectrum to treat psoriasis, vitiligo, eczema, and other skin diseases. It may be used alone or in combination with drugs applied topically or taken internally. Recent light … Continue reading →
Posted in Eczema, Phototherapy Lamps, Psoriasis, Vitiligo	| Tagged dermahealer phototherapy lamp, dermalite phototherapy lamp, Eczema UVB Lamps, Psoriasis, ultraviolet light treatment, Vitiligo	| 7 Comments
Shopping
Home
All products
All categories
Search products
Help & Support
All FAQs
Shipping policy
Payment methods
Returns policy
Customer service
Live Help
About us
Contact us
Terms & Conditions
Links
Site Map
Helpful Resources
News & Press
Blog
Connect with us on
Copyright © 2011 favoriteplus.com, All Rights Reserved.