Surgery for Ovarian Cysts
Skip to Content
Search
Emergency Room Wait Times
Pay My Bill
Patient Portal
About Us
Ways to Give
Careers
Contact Us
Main Navigation
Find a Doctor
Health Services
Locations
Classes & Events
Patients & Visitors
Search
You are here:
Home > Healthy Living > Health Library > Surgery for Ovarian Cysts
Functional Ovarian Cyst
Abdominal Organs
Female Reproductive System
Surgery for Ovarian Cysts
Surgery Overview
When an ovarian growth or cyst needs to be closely looked at, a surgeon can do so through a small incision using laparoscopy or through a larger abdominal incision (laparotomy). Either type of surgery can be used to diagnose problems such as ovarian cysts, adhesions, fibroids, and pelvic infection. But if there is any concern about cancer, you may have a laparotomy. It gives the best view of the abdominal organs and the female pelvic organs. Then, if the doctor finds ovarian cancer, he or she can safely remove it.
During surgery, a noncancerous cyst that is causing symptoms can be removed (cystectomy), leaving the ovary intact. In some cases, the entire ovary or both ovaries are removed, particularly when cancer is found.
What To Expect
General anesthesia usually is used during surgery.
After a laparoscopy, you can resume normal activities within a day. But you should avoid strenuous activity or exercise for about a week.
After a laparotomy, you may stay in the hospital from 2 to 4 days and return to your usual activities in 4 to 6 weeks.
Why It Is Done
Surgery is used to confirm the diagnosis of an ovarian cyst, remove a cyst that is causing symptoms, and rule out ovarian cancer.
Surgery for an ovarian cyst or growth may be advised in the following situations:
Ovarian growths (masses) are present in both ovaries.
An ovarian cyst that is being watched does not get smaller or go away in 2 to 3 months.
An ultrasound exam suggests that a cyst is not a simple functional cyst.
You have an ovarian growth and you:
Have never had a menstrual period (for example, a young girl).
Have been through menopause (postmenopausal woman).
Use birth control pills (unless you are using low-dose progestin-only pills or have missed a pill, which would make an ovulation-related functional cyst more likely).
Your doctor is concerned that ovarian cancer may be present. In this case, it is also advised that you see a gynecologic oncologist.
How Well It Works
An ovarian cyst can be removed from an ovary (cystectomy), preserving the ovary and your fertility. But it is possible for a new cyst to form on the same or opposite ovary after a cystectomy. New cysts can only be completely prevented by removing the ovaries (oophorectomy).
Risks
Risks of ovarian surgery include the following:
Ovarian cysts may come back after a cystectomy.
Pain may not be controlled.
Scar tissue (adhesions) may form at the surgical site, on the ovaries or fallopian tubes, or in the pelvis.
Infection may develop.
The bowel or bladder may be damaged during surgery.
What To Think About
Surgery may be recommended if you have a large cyst, cysts in both ovaries, or other characteristics that may suggest ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer can occur in women of all ages, but the incidence increases after menopause.
Credits
Current as ofMay 14, 2018
Author: Healthwise Staff
Medical Review: Sarah A. Marshall, MD - Family Medicine
Martin J. Gabica, MD - Family Medicine
Kathleen Romito, MD - Family Medicine
Kirtly Jones, MD - Obstetrics and Gynecology, Reproductive Endocrinology
Top of Page
Current as of: May 14, 2018
Author: Healthwise Staff
Medical Review:Sarah A. Marshall, MD - Family Medicine & Martin J. Gabica, MD - Family Medicine & Kathleen Romito, MD - Family Medicine & Kirtly Jones, MD - Obstetrics and Gynecology, Reproductive Endocrinology
This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Learn how we develop our content.
To learn more about Healthwise, visit Healthwise.org.
© 1995-2018 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated.
Disclaimer: The information contained in this website, and its associated websites, is provided as a benefit to the local community, and the Internet community in general; it does not constitute medical advice. We try to provide quality information, but we make no claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained in or linked to this website and its associated sites. As medical advice must be tailored to the specific circumstances of each patient and healthcare is constantly changing, nothing provided herein should be used as a substitute for the advice of a competent physician. Furthermore, in providing this service, Adventist HealthCare does not condone or support all of the content covered in this site. As an Adventist health care organization, Adventist HealthCare acts in accordance with the ethical and religious directives for Adventist health care services.
In This Section
Health Library
Find a Doctor
Find an Adventist HealthCare affiliated doctor by calling our FREE physician referral service at 800-642-0101 or by searching our online physician directory.
View Doctors
Classes & Events
Find health-related activities near you!
Childbirth & Baby Care Course - Private/In-Home Classes
Private Infant or Toddler Safety & CPR Class
Gestational Diabetes Education
BEST Program: Breastfeeding Education, Support & Togetherness (Shady Grove)
Infant Safety & CPR for Parents
View More....
Set Your Location
Update
Close
Set Your Location
Set Location
Update
Setting your location helps us to show you nearby providers and locations based on your healthcare needs.
Close
Sign up for updates about Adventist HealthCare and get health tips and news articles in your inbox.
email
input
We extend God's care through the ministry of physical, mental and spiritual healing.
Adventist HealthCare
820 West Diamond Ave.
Suite 600
Gaithersburg, MD 20878
301-315-3030
Contact Us
Newsroom
For Healthcare Professionals
High-Quality Care
Patient Privacy
Patient Nondiscrimination
Website Privacy
connect with us
¿Habla español?
© Adventist HealthCare 2019