What are Iron Deficiency Anemia Causes? (with pictures)
wiseGEEK
clear answers for common questions
Feedback About wiseGEEK
Category:
Health
▼
Health
Medicine
Fitness
Anatomy
Science
Food
Technology
Internet
Business
Education
Beauty
Language
Miscellaneous
Industry
Crafts
Cars
Home
Finance
Fashion
Art
United States
Environment
Travel
History
People
World
Law
Hobbies
What are Iron Deficiency Anemia Causes?
Iron deficiency anemia has a number of possible causes.
Iron mineral supplements can be taken to alleviate the symptoms of an iron deficiency.
Lack of iron in a person's diet is one cause of iron deficiency anemia.
Uterine fibroids can be a cause of blood loss and anemia.
Eating spinach is one way to get more iron in a diet.
View slideshow of images above
Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow
Follow @wiseGEEK
Article Details
Written By: Lindsay Kahl
Edited By: A. Joseph
Last Modified Date: 14 April 2019
Copyright Protected:
2003-2019 Conjecture Corporation
Print this Article
Subscribe to wiseGEEK
Learn something new every day
More Info... by email
wiseGEEK Slideshows
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies
10 hilariously insightful foreign words
These 10 animal facts will amaze you
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations
Top 10 facts about the world
Can you see through these real-life optical illusions?
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind
Adorable animal families that will make you "aww"
10 most extreme places on Earth
You won't believe these 10 facts about people
Iron deficiency anemia is a condition in which the body lacks healthy red blood cells because of insufficient iron supply. Red blood cells are necessary because they carry oxygen through the body and dispose of waste, such as carbon dioxide. It is the most common form of anemia and can be caused by a number of things. Some iron deficiency anemia causes include blood loss, lack of iron in the diet and the body’s inability to absorb iron.
Depending on the iron deficiency anemia causes, symptoms of the condition sometimes can go unnoticed. As the deficiency becomes more severe, the symptoms also worsen. Some of the most common symptoms include fatigue, headache, shortness of breath, dizziness, irritability, paleness, arrhythmia, brittle nails and pica. Pica is when an individual has abnormal cravings for non-nutritive materials, such as ice or starch.
The most common of all iron deficiency anemia causes is blood loss. Women who have severely heavy menstrual periods can develop iron deficiency anemia. Pregnancy is another possible cause of the condition for women, because their bodies need to supply increasing amounts of iron to themselves as well as the developing fetus. Some women who lose blood during childbirth also are at a risk of anemia.
Ad
Another one of the common iron deficiency anemia causes that are related to blood loss is internal bleeding. If an individual has chronic blood loss from an ulcer, tumor, polyp, cancer or uterine fibroids, he or she could lose iron over a period of time. Some people experience gastrointestinal bleeding from overuse of aspirin or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
The second most common of the iron deficiency anemia causes is a poor diet. People who fail to consume iron-rich foods regularly are at a greater risk of developing the condition. Meat and eggs are just a few excellent sources of iron. Spinach, beans and iron-fortified foods also offer the nutrient.
For some people, iron deficiency anemia can be caused by the body’s inability to absorb iron. This can occur with certain intestinal disorders, such as Chrohn’s disease or celiac disease, and it also can occur after intestinal surgery. Some medications used to decrease stomach acid also hinder the body's absorption of iron.
After it has been identified, iron deficiency anemia is highly treatable over time. If the anemia is caused by a poor diet, it can be treated by increasing intake of iron-rich foods and taking a regular iron supplement. When anemia is because of blood loss caused by an underlying condition, doctors will focus on treating the causal medical problem. A doctor might prescribe oral contraceptives to lessen a woman’s menstrual blood loss or antibiotics to treat a peptic ulcer. In some cases, and individual might require surgery to remove fibroids or polyps.
Ad
Recommended
Related wiseGEEK Articles
What Is Iron Dextran?
What Is Geophagy?
What Are the Best Iron Deficiency Foods?
What Are the Symptoms of Anemia in Pregnancy?
What Causes Iron Deficiency in Pregnancy?
What are the Medical Uses of Carbonyl Iron?
What are the Different Iron-Rich Foods?
Ad
Discuss this Article
Post your comments
Post Anonymously
Please enter the code:
Login
username
password
forgot password?
Register
username
password
confirm
email
Make changes/additions/deletions to the article below, and one of our editors will publish your suggestions if warranted.
Optional: Explanation of your recommended changes
Thank You!
One of our editors will review your suggestion and make changes if warranted. Note that depending on the number of suggestions we receive, this can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days. Thank you for helping to improve wiseGEEK!
forgot password?
wiseGEEK
clear answers for common questions
FAQ
Login
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Copyright © 2003 - 2019 Conjecture Corporation