featured – Wellbeing India
Skip to content
Wellbeing India
Menu
About
Specials
Featured Articles
Know your Body
Pregnancy & Parenting
Health
Diseases & Conditions
Mental Health
Remedies
Ayurvedic
Medicines
Wellness
Men
Women
Diet Consultation
Contact
Tag: featured
Iron out your body
Published on November 8, 2012 May 30, 2018 by Ami Paneri UpadhyayLeave a comment
How it helps?
Here comes the oxygen delivery service of your body!! The mineral iron makes the part ‘heme’ of the famous hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the substance of your red blood cell, which supplies oxygen to each and every cell of your body. Without oxygen any cell can not perform its function. For our muscles , myoglobin is the one who ensures adequate supply of oxygen to them. Here comes iron again!! Iron is also a part of this myoglobin. So too little iron meaning too little oxygen, lead to irritability, weakness, headaches, in severe cases , iron deficiency anemia.
How do we get it?
Iron is found in a variety of animal and plant foods. There are basically two kind of irons available for us.
HEME iron
NON HEME iron
Heme iron is the type of iron found in animal products like red meat, liver, poultry, egg etc. This is more easily absorbed compared to non heme iron.
Non heme iron is the one found in vegetables, beans, nuts, seeds, dried foods etc.
How much do we require daily?
It is amazing to know that the amount of absorption of iron is directly proportional to the depletion in the body.
For example a person with iron – deficiency anemia will absorb about two to three times more iron after eating the same food, compared to the person with normal iron levels.
A normal iron requirement in our body for average adult male is 28 mg / day. While the same for women is 30 mg/day.
For fetal growth and development, a pregnant lady needs more iron, and she would require 37.5 mg/day.
How do we get it?
It is best practice that a person include both heme and non heme iron in his diet. But for strict vegan people if they are not capable of taking non heme iron, then they must imply techniques to increase iron absorption.
The best heme sources are: lean red meats, turkey, chicken, pork, lamb, veal, egg yolks, and liver.
The best non heme sources are beans , lentils, whole grains, dried fruit, broccoli, spinach, collard greens, nuts and seeds, chickpeas, fortified cereals, barley and wheat germ.
How to boost Iron absorption?
Couple the non heme iron with vitamin C. As vitamin C would increase the absorption of iron.
Avoid drinking coffee or tea with an iron rich meal; they inhibit the absorption of iron.
Calcium interferes with the absorption of iron, so if you take calcium supplement , do not take them with iron rich meal.
As per our Indian tradition, cook in cast iron cookware, unbelievable , but true the minute amount of iron will seep into food.
Couple the heme iron however small with non heme iron will enhance the absorption of non heme iron.
What happens if we don’t get enough?
First sign of iron deficiency is chronic fatigue. Weakness, tiredness and irritability, severe headaches are sign of iron deficiency. In severe cases it can cause iron deficiency anemia.
What happens if we overdose it?
Its very uncommon to have overdose of iron, but yes quite possible in two cases
If you consume unnecessary overdose of supplements.
If you have genetic abnormality when body stores excessive amounts of iron.
The result can be liver and other organ damage.
Conclusion:
Although a well balanced diet should be the source of primary nutrition, but if you think you are not able to have one, go ahead and have a multi-vitamin/multi-mineral with iron, you will definitely get benefited.
Categories Featured Articles, Know your Body, Men, Pregnancy & Parenting, Specials, Wellness, Women•Tags featured
Mighty minerals – Calcium
Published on May 13, 2012 May 30, 2018 by Ami Paneri UpadhyayLeave a comment
Importance:
There are basically 13 vitamins and 22 minerals which are important for our body to perform its day to day activities and carry out many functions. Some are required in very large quantities and some required in only minute amounts. Calcium and potassium are among the mighty minerals which are required in large amount and they are extremely important to our body, you will be surprised to know that the 99% of the calcium you consume is getting stored in bones and the other 1 % is located in body fluids where it helps to regulate functions such as blood pressure , nerve transmission, muscle contraction – including heart beat, clotting of blood and secretion of hormones and digestive enzymes.
How do we get it?
Most of the dairy products are great sources of calcium lets see some of the richest sources of calcium from food. In other sources the grain Ragi – red millet is the grain richest in calcium, and oil seeds like Til (sesame seeds/gingelly) are great in calcium. Lets see the amount of calcium in various foods.
Til 100 g – 1450 mg
Ragi 100g – 344 mg
Fenugreek leaves 100 g – 395 mg
Dry coconut 100g – 400 mg
Milk 1 cup – 300 mg
Yogurt 1 cup – 270 mg
Cheese 20 g- 160 mg
How much do we require daily?
Most of the adult males and elderly persons require about 1200 mg/day. While women require average 1300 mg/d while children of age 1-3 yrs and 4-8 yrs requires 500 mg and 800 mg /day respectively. This requirement can be completed by consuming 2 cups of milk and 1 cup of curd per day. But if you feel you are unable to complete the requirement specially for women while pregnant or lactating should take supplement.
What happens if we don’t get enough?
Imagine your bones as your calcium bank. Over the years you can develop bones rich in calcium by consuming plenty of calcium rich foods and/or supplement tablets. Keep up the good work and your bones will stay calcium rich.
on the other hand, regularly missing !! this mineral will mess up many things. Since the body fluid need calcium to regulate normal body functions and if it doesn’t get it from food, it borrow it from the calcium bank – the bones. Borrowing day after day, year after year will deplete the savings account and leave you with hollow and easily broken, brittle bones – the condition of “OSTEOPOROSIS”.
What happens if we overdose it?
Its likely not possible to overdose the calcium from natural food sources , but yes from supplements its quite far possible , for example if someone is taking vitamin D supplement then it would increase calcium absorption in body can cause adverse effects like stomach ache, nausea and vomiting, it can lead to mental confusion, irregular heartbeats, high blood pressure etc.
Plus too much calcium can impair the absorption of Zinc and iron. So need to ensure the added consumption of these minerals.
Conclusion:
So as we know that HEALTH is real WEALTH, dont miss this mineral!! Calcium is best absorbed at night while we sleep, so a glass of milk before bed will make it to the strong bones!! And strong bones means better posture, increased lean body mass – good tool to FAT Loss!!
Categories Featured Articles, Specials•Tags featured
Vitamin B1 – Thiamin
Published on June 24, 2011 May 30, 2018 by Ekta Paneri-Gupta2 Comments
Which vitamin gives you lustrous hair? Good vision, Healthy skin, helps normal functioning of the nervous system as well as the liver? Prevents birth defects in unborn babies? Well, doesn’t sound like it’s a job of one vitamin. It sure isn’t, but it’s the work of group of vitamins which fall under this mighty Vitamin B complex. Once thought to be a single vitamin, this water –soluble component is a group of eight chemically diverse vitamins that often co exists in the same foods. Together they are known as Vitamin B Complex; individually they are named as B1, B2, etc.
Let’s start our series on this multi talented vitamin by taking the first vitamin in the group. That’s vitamin B1 – Thiamin. Being water soluble, our body needs a continuous supply of the vitamin from food, as very little of it is stored in the body & depletion of the vitamin can happen in 14 days.
What does it do for your body?
It converts sugar, carbohydrates, proteins & starch into energy for the body’s need
Aids in proper functioning of the heart, nervous system as well as the muscular system
As it boosts the activity of the immune system, it improves the body’s ability to deal with stress
Proper functioning of the brain & helps cope up with depression, it also enhances learning & memory
Enhances blood circulation & blood formation
As it helps in producing hydrochloric acid, it plays an important role in digestion of food
It is said to be effective in treatment of arthritis as well as fertility
What happens in case of Deficiency?
The deficiency results in Beriberi which causes swelling, tingling or burning sensation in hands & feet, difficulty in breathing & uncontrolled eye movements. It can also result in a brain disorder where there is a neural damage to the central & peripheral nervous system resulting in memory loss. It heightens the chances of getting cataracts in the eyes. Thiamin deficiency can lead to congestive heart failures. It can also cause Alzheimer’s disease, extreme fatigue, irritability, constipation, edema & enlarged liver.
How do you know that you are not getting it enough?
Thiamin deficiency is rare but it’s important to understand the symptoms early on to avoid any complications. Poor memory & bad co ordination of body parts, weak & sore muscles, changes in the heart beats as well as stressful breathing, mood swings, loss appetite which results in severe weight loss, gastrointestinal disturbances, tingling sensation & numbness in hands & feet & finally nervousness are the signs to watch out for.
Where do I get it from?
Thiamin is obtained from both plant as well as animal source. Sunflower seeds, whole grain cereals, peanuts, wheat bran, whole wheat flour, wheat germ, sea-fish, liver, egg-yolk, kidney beans all contain good amounts of thiamin. Vitamin B1 can also be found in multivitamins (including children’s chewable and liquid drops) or B complex vitamins.
How to optimize its derivation from food?
Refrigerate fresh fruits & vegetables when not in use. Keep milk & grains away from strong light. Being water soluble, the vitamin is easily washed away during preparation & storage so it’s important to preserve them at room temperature in a dry place that is free of moisture.
I am sure that by reading this article, it has created an understanding in you about how essential this component is & how by incorporating certain foods in our daily diet we can avoid diseases caused by the deficiency.
Categories Featured Articles•Tags featured
Vitamin B5-Pantothenic Acid
Published on June 23, 2011 May 30, 2018 by Ekta Paneri-GuptaLeave a comment
Do you ever wonder why on an important date does your skin erupt with irritating, very obvious acne? Blaming it on the hormones? No, rather blame it on the lack of B5. This vitamin is also known as Pantothenic acid or anti-stress vitamin as it is important in making hormones & healthy red cells.
Benefits of B5:
B5 is known as an anti – stress vitamin as it regulates the formation of stress hormones
Helps generate energy for the body by breaking down carbohydrates, proteins & fats
Plays an important role in the production of adrenal hormones in the adrenal glands
Vitamin B5 produces neurotransmitters that is cholesterol required for proper nerve & muscle functioning
It is responsible for haemoglobin production & metabolism of toxins by the liver
It aids in the DNA reproduction & RNA transcription
It is used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, Rheumatoid arthritis, Parkinson’s disease, depression, respiratory problems & carpal tunnel syndrome
B5 greatly relieves acne, allergies, alcoholism, hair loss, asthma, low blood pressure
Provides relief in cramps due to pregnancy
Helps improve skin & prevents graying of hair
How do I include Vitamin B5 in my regular meals?
The term Pantothenic is derived from the Greek “Pantos” meaning everywhere that means Vitamin B5 is found in abundance in plant as well as animal sources. The storehouse of this vitamin are peanuts, liver , kidney, cauliflower, mushroom, seeds, other nuts, pumpkin, sweet potato, legumes, milk, soya, egg yolk, cheese, fish, chicken, wholegrain bread, breakfast cereals fortified with pantothenic acid & bananas. The richest of Vitamin B5 are ovaries of the cod & tuna fish.
Will the lack of B5 harm me?
Being a water soluble vitamin, it needs to replenished everyday in our body. The symptoms that indicate the lack of it are painful & burning feet, skin abnormalities, numbness & poor co ordination, abdominal & muscle cramps, vomiting, anemia, insomnia & depression, stunted growth & restlessness. These can be effectively controlled with the usage of Vitamin B5 along with Vitamin B12 & Vitamin C.
Individuals who are prone to be deficient are women on birth control pills, smokers & alcoholics, people under stress, those prone to allergies & also who are used to eating high amount of refined food.
Preservation of Vitamin B5
Being an unstable vitamin, significant amounts can be lost through cooking, freezing & commercial processing. Soda bi carbonate should not be used in water used to cook vegetables as it results in the loss of pantothenic acid. It is advisable to store the food sources at room temperature in a dry place.
As Vitamin B5 is found “Pantos” (everywhere) you won’t have to go searching hard for it, hence it’s difficult to avoid this vitamin in our regular diet, what is important is that we realize its essence & make sure we use the right method to preserve it in order to maximize the nutritional content of the meal.
Categories Featured Articles•Tags featured
Vitamin E-ssential
Published on June 22, 2011 May 30, 2018 by Ekta Paneri-GuptaLeave a comment
Vitamin E aids in formation & functioning of red blood cells, it also helps in the process of blood clotting along with vitamin K. This vitamin helps in repair of the tissues by improving blood circulation & promotes healing. Continue reading “Vitamin E-ssential” →
Categories Featured Articles•Tags featured
Vitamin K-lotting
Published on June 14, 2011 May 30, 2018 by Ekta Paneri-GuptaLeave a comment
Imagine a tiny cut on your finger, an occurrence which is not rare. You just wipe it off, apply a band aid & forget about it. Now imagine this scenario, the cut is tiny, but the bleeding does not stop! The blood keeps flowing on & on. Well, who do you need right now but our own K- Man! Yes Vitamin K! Vitamin K is essential for the functioning of several proteins involved in blood clotting. It is derived from the German word “”koagulation” which refers to the process of blood clot formation. Vitamin K is a fat-soluble vitamin. It is not a single chemical substance but rather a family of chemically related substances that go by the general name of “vitamin K.”
What our K Man does for you?
Allows your blood to clot normally
Helps protect your bones from fracture
Helps prevent postmenopausal bone loss
Helps prevent calcification of your arteries
Provides possible protection against liver and prostate cancer
How does the lack of Vitamin K harm you?
As the primary function of the vitamin is in blood clotting, it is most affected in case of deficiency. This results in a longer bleeding time, in severe cases it can also lead to fatal anemia. Not just adults but even newborns are at an increased risk of deficiency as babies are born with sterile intestines which means they do not have any bacteria in the guts to produce vitamin K. Other symptoms of deficiency include heavy menstrual bleeding in women, brittle bones, anemia, bruising, and bleeding of the gums or nose.
Where do I find the K Man?
Vitamin K is easily found in the following vegetable sources in abundant quantities. Dark, green leafy vegetables like spinach, brussels sprouts, Swiss chard, green beans, asparagus, broccoli, kale, mustard greens, green peas & carrots. Cow milk is also considered as a good source of the vitamin. However you ought to keep in mind that hydrogenation of vegetable oils will decrease the absorption & biological effect of the vitamin.
How much do I need?
our daily requirement of vitamin k is around 80 ug. which can be easily fulfilled by a cup of spinach, or cabbage, or any green leafy vegetable.
Is too much too good?
There is no known toxicity associated with Vitamin K if taken via natural sources. However a synthetic form of the vitamin if taken in excess causes allergic reactions & hemolytic anemia.
It is important to understand the relevance of this K man in our daily meals. I hope this article has enlightened you enough to welcome him to your lunch & dinner every day!
Categories Featured Articles•Tags featured
Vitamin A
Published on June 11, 2011 May 30, 2018 by Ami Paneri UpadhyayLeave a comment
What makes Bugs Bunny smart? Or closer to home, why does Private detective Karamchand has such a sharp eye? Any guesses? Well, its our dear old Vitamin A!! Haven’t you seen both of these smarties chomping on carrots, Bugs outwitting Elmer Fudd whereas Karmachand & Kitty solving case after case? Now you will ask me how is eating carrots going to help me? Well, simple fact that carrots are a rich source of Vitamin A.
But we are not talking about carrots alone here, what we are going to discuss is Vitamin A. Vitamin A being a fat soluble vitamin is stored in our body, so primarily it can be used whenever the body needs it.
How Does Vitamin A helps?
It helps fighting against common ailments like common cold, allergies etc.
It helps in providing healthy atmosphere for conception and also it helps growth of baby inside the womb.
It helps preventing osteoporosis, and helps recover broken bones.
Sufficient vitamin A ensures glowing skin.
It helps to fight against cancer.
How do we get our vitamin A?
There are two different sources available for vitamin A, the vegetarian source and non veg source, Veg source does not provide direct vitamin A but the element known as beta carotene, beta carotene is converted in vitamin A by human body as per requirements. All the orange, yellow, green and red coloured fruits and veggies like mango, carrots, broccoli, sweet potato, spinach and pumpkins are rich source of beta carotene. While animal source is the direct source of vitamin A. Whole milk products, eggs, liver, cod liver oil, etc are rich sources of Vitamin A.
How much do we require daily?
Though the adult and children have different level of requirements , you will be amaze to know that a carrot or a small bunch of spinach or a ripe mango can provide you enough Vitamin A for a day.
What happens if we don’t get enough?
You will wonder why we need to eat all these. What’s the need of this Vitamin? Once you read through the importance of the Vitamin A, you will realize how crucial it is for our body & what its deficiency can do? Vitamin A plays a role in a variety of functions throughout the body, such as:
Vision – It can’t improve your distance vision or help you see more clearly, but a deficiency can certainly harm your vision in several ways. One form of vitamin A in your body, retinal, helps nerves transmit the image of what you see to your brain. When you are in a dark situation (such as driving at night) and light flashes (such as oncoming headlights), certain compounds in the visual cycle are bleached out and need to be refreshed by having a good supply of retinal available. If a person is deficient in vitamin A it takes much longer for their eyes to adjust to be able to see again. Another way vitamin A helps your vision is by maintaining the moisture of your mucous membranes.
The deficiency of the Vitamin A can cause blindness in the eyes, the hardness in the lungs are not able to fight infections whereas the damage to the intestine & stomach causes severe digestive problems. The deficiency can prove fatal.
What happens if we exceed the dose?
Just as deficiency is dangerous for the body, too much is not too good also. Being vegetarian secures you from exceeding the dose of Vitamin A, because the body has control to converts Vit A from beta carotene as required. But have caution while having non veg , specially read meat and liver, cause having them excessively might cause overdose. The symptoms of the toxicity are general fatigue, severe headaches, blurred vision, insomnia, hair loss, menstrual irregularities, skin rashes & joint pain
So I hope now that you realize the importance of this A-ssential vitamin, you will not skip it in your meals nor will you go overboard with it. Fortunately for us, the cases of Vitamin A deficiency are very rare as our staple diet includes the source in form of meat, dairy products, colorful fruits & vegetables.
Categories Featured Articles•Tags featured
Search for:
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Authors
Ami Paneri Upadhyay
Iron out your body
Mighty minerals – Calcium
Vitamin A
Permanent Fat Burning: Eat or not to Eat?
Urinary Tract Infection and Natural Remedies
Ekta Paneri-Gupta
Some Selenium please!
Vitamin B1 – Thiamin
Vitamin B5-Pantothenic Acid
Vitamin E-ssential
Vitamin K-lotting
Recent Comments
Sumit Dharewa on A Sample Balanced Diet Plan
SUJITH on A Sample Balanced Diet Plan
KANCHI on A Sample Balanced Diet Plan
Jagdeep singh on A Sample Balanced Diet Plan
Ashok on A Sample Balanced Diet Plan
Follow us on Twitter
My Tweets
Follow us on FB
Follow us on FB
Follow us on G+
tw
fb
gp
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Toujours by Automattic.