Music for the Melancholy: How Does Music Therapy Help Depression?
Cancer
Cancer
Brain Cancer and Tumors
Breast Cancer
Cervical Cancer
Colon Cancer
Head and Neck Cancer
Living with Cancer
Lung Cancer
Lymphoma
Non-Malignant Tumors
Other Cancers
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Skin Cancer
Surgical Procedures for Cancer
Heart Disease
Heart Disease
Congestive Heart Failure
Coronary Artery Disease
Heart Attack
Heart Surgery and Procedures
Heart Valve Conditions
High Blood Pressure
Keeping the Heart Healthy
Kids' Heart Conditions
Palpitations and Arrhythmia
Health Care Technology
Health Care Technology
Bioinformatics
Cell Technology in Health
Devices and Instruments
Health Informatics
Health Software and Apps
Nanotechnology
Prosthetics / Bionics
Women's Health
Women's Health
Birth Control
Breast Health
Endometriosis
Fertility Issues
Labor and Delivery
Menopause
Menstruation
Osteoporosis
Pregnancy
Reproductive Health
Uterine Fibroids
Women's Health and Wellness
Women's Sexual Health
Diabetes
Diabetes
Diabetes Complications
Diabetes Facts and Prevention
Diabetes Nutrition and Exercise
Diabetes Symptoms and Diagnosis
Diabetes Treatment
Juvenile Diabetes
Living with Diabetes
More Areas
Depression(8)
ADHD-ADD(5)
Diet and Nutrition(14)
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Eating Disorders
Autism / PDD
Anxiety and Panic Disorders
Heartburn and Digestive Disorders
Arthritis and Related Conditions
Allergies and Asthma
Conditions and Treatments
Alternative and Natural
Fitness and Exercise
More Areas
Depression (8)
ADHD-ADD (5)
Diet and Nutrition (14)
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Eating Disorders
Autism / PDD
Anxiety and Panic Disorders
Heartburn and Digestive Disorders
Arthritis and Related Conditions
Allergies and Asthma
Conditions and Treatments
Alternative and Natural
Fitness and Exercise
Bipolar Disorder
Diagnosing Depression
Major Depression
Other Mood Disorders
Personality Disorders
Postpartum Depression
Teen and Child Depression
Treating Mood Disorders
ADHD Symptoms and Diagnosis
Adult ADHD
Causes of ADHD
Childhood ADHD
Treatment of ADD / ADHD
Children and Infant Nutri...
Diet Reviews
Dieting Tips
Eating on a Budget
Food Safety
Healthy Cooking Tips
Healthy Eating Tips
Nutrition Information
Restaurant Nutrition
The Basics of Nutrition
Vegetarian Diet
Vitamin Deficiencies
Vitamins and Minerals
Weight Loss Surgery
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Eating Disorders
Autism / PDD
Anxiety and Panic Disorders
Heartburn and Digestive Disorders
Arthritis and Related Conditions
Allergies and Asthma
Conditions and Treatments
Alternative and Natural
Fitness and Exercise
Skip to content
768
Music for the Melancholy: How Does Music Therapy Help Depression?
Treatment, Living with & Coping with a Mood Disorder / By Stephanie Torreno / Depression & Mood Disorders
Different Treatments for Depression
Depression is a commonly diagnosed mental illness, affecting a surprising number of Americans. Many therapies exist to treat depression, including psychotherapy, medication, and natural remedies of herbs and other supplements. Another type of treatment that has been used for years and is increasing in popularity is music therapy. How does music therapy help depression? Music therapy has been shown to improve mood, sooth a depressed individual into a relaxing physical and mental state, and enable psychotherapy to work more effectively.
Music as Therapy
Music has powerful and definite effects on most of the processes of the body. It increases bodily metabolism, which is usually decreased in a depressed person. Listening to music increases muscular energy, too, which is also low in someone suffering from depression. Music raises blood pressure and pulse rate, two vital signs that are typically decreased with this condition. Music decreases fatigue, an overwhelming depressive symptom. Finally, music has the power to reduce suggestibility and the extent of illusions experienced by those who are depressed by acting as a positive distraction. Therapists who have been using music to treat patients with depression have learned that this type of treatment has additional benefits. These benefits increase when music therapy is used in conjunction with psychotherapy and possibly medication and include:
Attracting attention and increasing attention span, thereby circumventing thoughts that cause depression and getting the individual out of the blue mood;
Replacing a depressed mood with one of pleasure and mild elation;
Relieving inner tension and conflicts that give rise to the depressive state;
Enhancing muscular activity with rhythmic stimuli which leads to physical motion, which, in turn, decreases depression and heightens senses to what is happening around the patient;
Giving the ability to open up during therapy sessions and relax in between sessions;
Improving coping skills, thought processes and feelings, and behavior patterns, and;
Offering a sense of success in treatment.
Music therapy is practiced by a trained psychologist or psychiatrist, who can offer the treatment individually or in groups. Receptive therapy, most widely used in the United States, involves patients simply listening to music. Activities, such as meditating, moving, drawing, and reminiscing, may also be practiced with the music. The music and these activities help the patient relax and open up to the therapist. Different types of music will elicit various responses and feelings. The therapist will suggest what type of music should be listened to, depending on what feelings and emotions he or she wants to provoke in the patient. Since each patient experiences different symptoms, the music therapy program is tailored to the individual and can change depending on the therapeutic results.
Research of Music Therapy
A recent Austrian study in the Journal of Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics explored music therapy in the treatment of depression. Unlike previous studies of music therapy for depression treatment which lacked specific stimuli, used small samples, or had methodological shortcomings, this study was well-received. The study investigated two forms of receptive music therapy among depressed adults. Two hundred and three participants were screened online using the Goldberg Depression Questionnaire. The study design included four groups: music therapy 1 (MT1), music therapy 2 (MT2), placebo, and waiting-list control. Participants in MT1 and MT2 listened to types of music, and the placebo group heard recorded nature sounds. During the study’s central trial element, the participants were asked to strictly follow their assigned study protocol with the purpose of examining the effects of MT1 and MT2. Participants with audio programs were told they could not change from their assigned program to alternative music programs during the study’s central trial phase.
Researchers developed individualized music-focused audio therapies for MT1 and MT2 as receptive music therapies to treat depression. Participants in MT1 listened to newly composed polyphonic modern music, while participants in MT2 heard specifically arranged classical music. Both groups listened for a half hour, twice a day. Assessing depression status after the therapy, MT1 showed a significant positive effect, according to the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). The MT2 group did not show this effect. A significant positive effect was shown for both MT1 and MT2 on HAM-D and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-D). MT2 participants, but not MT1 participants, showed a positive effect on the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). The placebo group did not show a significant change in any depression score. Based on these result in this study, receptive music therapy appears to reduce symptoms of depression. Researchers report that receptive music therapy, either by itself or with psychosocial and pharmacological treatments, can effectively alleviate depression.
How does music therapy help depression? In addition to the above answers, many patients simply enjoy music therapy and feel uplifted by it. And the benefits do not have to end. When patients complete professional treatment, they can use the therapeutic techniques learned to treat relapses of depression, or to improve a blue mood any time.
References
Alpha Galileo, www.alphagalileo.org/ViewItem.aspx?ItemId=89372&CultureCode=en.
Podolsky, Edward. Music Therapy. Kessinger, 2006.
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Recent
Mid-Life Depression and How to Handle It
What is Logotherapy? Insights into Logotherapy for Depression
Shock Treatment for Depression: Insight into a Contentious Treatment
How Massage Therapy Can Help Fight Depression
How Single Parents With Depression Find Help
Dealing with postmenopausal depression
About | Copyright Policy | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
The material on Healthguideinfo.com is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment from a physician or other qualified health provider.
Copyright © 2019 Health Guide Info. All Rights Reserved.
Popular Pages
Home
More Info
Social
Twitter
Facebook
Navigation
Cancer
Heart Disease
Health Care Technology
Women's Health
Diabetes
Top Menu
Search
© healthguideinfo.com. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy