Medication To Treat Migraines and Cluster Headaches
Re-Order
Chat Support
Monday to Sunday
12pm-12am
MY ACCOUNT MY SHOPPING BAG
Main menu
Home
Products
Order Status
FAQs
Contact
Affiliates
Cart
Treating Migraines and Cluster Headaches
Sumatriptan is a generic drug sold under brand names Imitrex, Imigran and treximet. It treats migraine and cluster headaches. Prompt treatment help one to return to normal routine. Migraine effects 1 in 8 person, in women and in the age of 30 to 50 years.
HISTORY
Search for new anti-migraine drug started at Gla
xo in 1972. In 1960 studies showed that constriction of vessel could reduce migraine attack. 5-HT drug showed many side effects. Scientist started to discover specific agonist for 5-HT receptors. AH25086 was a compound developed. It showed constriction of vessels. Though it wasn’t released due to low fraction of unchanged drug that reaches the systemic circulation. Studies lead to the discovery of the first triptan drug. Sumatriptan had both criteria. It was first launched in the Netherlands in 1991 and became available in USA in 1993.
MECHANISM
It is a medicine used in migraine and headache. It stimulates the 5-HT1B receptors on the smooth muscle cells of blood vessels. This narrows blood vessels all over the brain. It reduces the vascular inflammation due to migraine. It work by making those vessels normal by narrowing them. This reduces symptoms of migraine.
DOSAGES
It available in four types: 1. Oral, 2. Injection- under the skin, 3. Nasal spray, 4. Rectal. It is available in following strength.
Oral tablets- 25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg
Injection- 4 mg/0.5 ml, 6 mg/0.5 ml, 3 mg/0.5 ml
Other method-20 mg/ in h, 5 mg/ in h, 6.5 mg/ 4 hr
The subcutaneous route provide best relief from pain. If case of no effect or no improvement, give a second dose. Difference between two doses should be 2 hour. Maximum recommended dose is 200 mg.
ADVANTAGES
It is useful to treat migraine
It relieves headache
It helps reduces pain
It treats other migraine symptoms like nausea, vomiting etc
Helps to return to normal routine due to prompt treatment
It effects certain natural substance that cause narrowing of blood vessels in the brain
Effective and tolerable
Adverse events are mild and moderate
Adverse effects last for short duration
Safety records and evidence based prescription instruction
SIDE EFFECTS
Some of the common side effects are;
Dizziness, injection site reaction
Vertigo
Nausea and vomiting
Flushing sensation
Tingling sensation
Unpleasant taste
Chest discomfort
Major side effects are rare cases. But it is necessary to look for a doctor for any of these symptoms.
Nerve pain
Severe numbness on one side of the face or body
Severe or continuing pain stomach
Unusual bleeding
Trouble speaking or swallowing
Vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
PRECAUTIONS
It is necessary to Inform doctor in certain cases as given below:
Allergy to the ingredient in Sumatriptan
History of heart disease, or other blood vessels disease
Uncontrolled high blood pressure or severe liver problem
If one have used certain other migraine medicines in past 24 hours.
History of kidney problem or seizures
Women in past menopause
Man who is older than 40 years
One is overweight
Inform doctor as some medicines can interact with Sumatriptan
COST OF GENERIC VS BRAND DRUG
The cost per pill of Imitrex in USA pharmacy is $5.63 while the generic drug (Sumatriptan) is $2.92 that’s almost half the price. This shows that the difference in cost between the Imitrex and Sumatriptan but both provide the same effect.
Search by Name
Product Categories
Allergy
Buy Clobetasol
Buy Cetirizine HCL
View All
Anti Convulsants
Buy Gabapentin
Buy Oxcarbazepine
View All
Anti Depressants
Buy Paroxetine
Buy Olanzapine
View All
Anti Fungal
Buy Itraconazole
Buy Ketoconazole
View All
Anti Viral
Buy Amantadine
Buy Famciclovir
View All
Antibiotics
Buy Linezolid
Buy Cefixime
View All
Arthritis
Buy Allopurinol
Buy Nabumetone
View All
Asthma
Buy Montelukast Sodium
Buy Prednisolone
View All
View All Categories
Monday to Sunday
12pm to 12am
(800) 209-0415
Home
About Us
Payment Options
Tramadol
Shipping
Contact
Privacy
Terms
All Rights Reserved. All trademarks and registered trademarks are of their respective companies.
Copyright © 2019- Rx 2 Go Pharmacy
PAYMENT METHOD