How to Diagnose and Treat Athlete's Foot | Adam Kemp Fitness
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Adam Kemp Fitness
Basketball Player | Fitness Tips
Search this website
About Me
Workout Programs & Exercises
Core Exercises
Easy Workouts at Home
Lower Body Exercises
Mass Building
Plyometric Exercises
Upper Body Exercises
Yoga and Meditation
Workout Motivation
Health, Nutrition & Supplements
Food and Recipes
Health Tips for Men
Holistic Health Tips and Advice
Medical Marijuana and CBD Oil
Mental Health Help and Advice
Nutrition Education & More!
Sleep Articles
Women’s Health and Fitness
Workout Supplements
Weight Loss Tips
Miscellaneous Articles + Personal Stories
Fitness Gear
Fitness Writing Tips
High Quality Content
Politics and World News
Product Reviews
Travel and Lifestyle Stories
Contact Me!
Advertise with Adam Kemp Fitness
How to Diagnose and Treat Athlete’s Foot
December 5, 2017 by Adam Kemp Leave a Comment
Table of Contents
How to Diagnose Athlete’s Foot
How to Treat Your Athlete’s Foot
If you have Athlete’s foot, it can cause a rash spreading easily. Not anyone can avoid athlete’s foot infection during their lifetime. Fungi can be able to grow well in wet and warm places like between the toes.
But, you can treat this condition at home with over-the-counter topical fungal medicines. They will help to relieve reinfection.
Read this post to learn how to treat Athlete’s foot.
How to Diagnose Athlete’s Foot
Determine whether you may get athlete’s foot. If you contact with a contaminated surface, you may get risks of this condition. There are some contaminated surfaces such as showers, locker rooms, or swimming pools.
Also, there are various certain behaviors that make you get a fungal infection on your feet or toes as developing a nail, wearing shoes with plastic liners, having sweaty feet regularly, or leaving your feet wet for a long time.
Pay attention to the symptoms of athlete’s foot. Most of the symptoms are related to the skin irritation.
There are three common types of athlete’s foot you can find. They include mild, moderate, and severe. Right after removing your socks and shoes, you can see some symptoms like itching.
You can also see some other symptoms of athlete’s foot as bleeding, cracking skin, peeling or flaking skin, the pain of the infected area, itching, and burning.
Check your feet thoroughly for signs of athlete’s foot. In order not to ignore anything, it’s best to look at both feet close up under good lighting.
Look at carefully areas between the toes and the soles. Once you see any red skin and dry flaky skin, it’s time to look for treatments.
Find a toe web infection that is common between the fourth and fifth toes. The thing you need to do is determining signs of athlete’s foot in these areas. These signs normally include peeling, scaly, and cracking skin.
Determine whether you suffer from a moccasin-type infection. This may occur as a very mild thickening on the heel as well as other areas on your foot. These problems may become worse. They also even become cracked, thick, and fall out.
As such, make sure you check your toenails carefully to determine signs of irritation or fungal infection.
Consider a vesicular infection that may cause fluid-filled blisters suddenly on your foot. You can find the blisters on the bottom of your foot. The bacterial infection may make symptoms much worse.
In fact, athlete’s foot is capable of spreading to other areas of the body. It can appear anywhere it can be able to thrive. That’s why don’t forget to wash your hands thoroughly after you handle infected areas on your feet.
Visit your doctor. Then, you can get telltale visual signs related to the fungal infection. Also, your doctor can take some tests in order to confirm a diagnosis like sending a sample of skin cells for further testing.
How to Treat Your Athlete’s Foot
Purchase an over-the-counter topical medicine. It’s not difficult to get nonprescription anti-fungal creams, sprays, solutions, swabs, ointments, or powders. They can help to treat athlete’s foot. In fact, you may have to pay much more money for faster-acting medications than the others.
Use a topical anti-fungal. Don’t forget to clean your hands before as well as after the treatment. It’s important to dry the area before placing the medication directly onto your rash. It’s best to continue using the medicine even when your rash disappears.
Another treatment to consider is Burow’s solution. This solution is great thanks to its astringent and antibacterial properties, especially for treating a vesicular infection.
Remember to dry your feet as possible. The warm and damp areas are great for fungi to thrive. Your feet have the intention of being an ideal breeding ground for this condition. So, your feet need to be ensured to dry all the day.
In addition, you can use some natural remedies such as tea tree oil or garlic. They are great for treating your athlete’s foot. Indeed, they offer anti-fungal compounds that can be able to kill fungal infections. But, they can’t destroy completely the infection.
Use prescription medication once your fungal infection becomes very severe or resistant. Ask your doctor for prescription topical or oral anti-fungal medications. But, some prescription anti-fungals come with side effects. Thus, consult your doctor about the medications you should take.
Summary
Article Name
How to Diagnose and Treat Athlete's Foot | Adam Kemp Fitness
Description
If you have Athlete's foot, it can cause a rash spreading easily. Not anyone can avoid athlete’s foot infection during their lifetime.
Author
Adam Kemp
Publisher Name
Adam Kemp Fitness
Publisher Logo
Filed Under: General Health and Fitness Tips
About Adam Kemp
My name is Adam Kemp, professional basketball player and fitness tip provider! Check out my website to find a variety of fitness tips and health advice that I have learned throughout my basketball career!
"I'd Rather Be a Myth than a Legend"
Follow me on Twitter or Instagram.
Leave a Reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Subscribe
Notify of
new follow-up commentsnew replies to my comments
Before Footer
Follow Me on Instagram @AdamKemp50!
About Me
Advertise with Adam Kemp Fitness
Easy Workouts at Home
General Health and Fitness Tips
Lower Body Exercises
Medical Marijuana and CBD Oil
Mental Health Help and Advice
Nutrition Education & More!
Plyometric Exercises
Upper Body Exercises
Weight Loss Tips
Workout Motivation
Workout Programs & Exercises
Workout Supplements
Copyright © 2019 · Wellness Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
wpDiscuz