Facelift Scars Archives - Page 2 of 2 - Scars and Spots
Scars and Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
About INVICIBLE
Press
Subscribe
Buy NOW
April 20, 2019
InviCible Scars October 23, 2013 Leave a Comment
How to Minimize Plastic Surgery Scars
The decision to have plastic surgery is a major and personal one. Patients can often achieve an improved appearance through plastic surgery, which makes it tremendously popular, and most patients are thrilled with their results. However, post-surgery scarring is one of the downfalls – and anytime an incision is made to the skin, there will be a scar. The risk of severe scarring is enough to make some patients rethink their decision to have plastic surgery at all, but scarring can be minimized by optimal placement and proper aftercare.
Choose Your Surgeon Carefully
The surgical technique used has a major impact on what kind of scarring you can expect. Choose an experienced, board certified surgeon and discuss the types of incisions and suturing he or she uses, as well as what kind of scarring you can expect.
Don’t Smoke
Smoking affects scar healing in several ways. First of all, it increases your chances of having complications such as infection, which delays wound healing and exacerbates scarring. Smoking also affects the oxygenation of your tissues by causing your blood vessels to constrict. This allows less oxygen to get to the wound, which impedes healing. The increased carbon monoxide in your bloodstream is another way smoking decreases the amount of oxygen in your blood. Finally, smoking depletes Vitamin C faster, and Vitamin C is important in collagen formation and immune system function, as well as being a powerful antioxidant.
Try Silicone Scar Treatments
Silicone sheeting and topical gels work to improve the appearance of scars by reducing the color and height of the scar and softening its texture. Silicone increases hydration in the area, regulates growth factors such as collagen production, and reduces the discomfort and itching sometimes caused by scars.
Use Aloe Vera
Aloe Vera has been shown to promote wound healing and inhibit inflammation. Aloe Vera can be used on healing wounds (not open wounds) to reduce scar formation with its glycoproteins, which stop inflammation and pain, and its polysaccharides, which encourage skin growth and repair. You can either apply Aloe Vera straight from the plant or you can use an ointment or gel containing it as an ingredient.
Avoid Ingredients Not Shown to Be Helpful
Vitamin E, though a popular anti-aging ingredient, has been shown to be at best ineffective and at worst harmful to scars, having a worsening effect rather than the opposite. In fact, 1 in 3 people are allergic to Vitamin E and develop contact dermatitis. Oftentimes people believe that Vitamin E has helped with their scar healing, however it is only the moisturizing effect that has made a difference.
Other ingredients, such as Aloe Vera, licorice, and silicone, are known to have a much greater positive effect on scar healing. You should also avoid any products containing artificial ingredients like preservatives, parabens, and fragrances. These products increase the risk of allergic reaction or irritation, for starters. Hydroquinone and kojic acid are other ingredients that are harmful and should be avoided.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Breast Surgery Scars, C Section Scars, Facelift Scars, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars, Plastic Surgery Scars, Surgery Scars, Tummy Tuck Scars Tagged: get rid of scars, plastic surgery scars
« Previous Page
EMAIL NEWSLETTER
Sign up to receive our free monthly newsletter with tips and advice on how to treat dark spots and scars.
Enter your email address...
Subscribe to Scars and Spots
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Buy Now
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Popular Posts
Can You Tattoo Over Scars?
How to Remove Dark Spots from Razor Bumps and Ingrown Hair
How Do You Soften Scar Tissue?
Why Does a Scar Turn White?
Are Second Degree Burn Scars Permanent?
How to Fade Shingles Scars
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bite Scars
Why Do Scars Itch?
Is a Red Scar a Permanent Scar?
Why Do Surgical Scars Itch?
Press
About INVICIBLE
InviCible has a superior safety profile and is also hypoallergenic. It contains NO hydroquinone, preservatives, fragrances, petroleum, mineral oil, or alcohol. It is not tested on animals.
Privacy Policy Cookie Policy
RECENT POSTS
Scar Cream Available Internationally on Amazon
Cosmetic Surgeon Red Flags You Should Not Ignore
Pediatric Sun Exposure – Tips from St. Jude to Protect Your Child
How to Get Rid of Scars Fast
How Long Does it Take a Hypertrophic Scar to Heal?
My Scar Won’t Stop Itching, Is This Normal?
SEARCH
Search Tags
Acne Scars Acne Tips Age Spots Breast Cancer Scars Breast Surgery Scars Burn Scars Chemical Peels C Section Scars Dark Scars Exercise Facelift Scars Face Scars Get Rid of Dark Spots Get Rid of Scars Hyperpigmentation Hypertrophic Scars InviCible Scars Reviews Keloid Scars Mastectomy Scars Melanoma Scars Melasma New or Old Scars Nutrition Plastic Surgery Scars Scar Healing Tips Skin Care Tips Skin Resurfacing Skin Spots Skin Treatments Sun Spots Surgery Scars Tummy Tuck Scars Uneven Skin Tone
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in