Gut health Archives - The Nutritionist Yogi
Skip to content
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
SoundCloud
Twitter
LinkedIn
RSS
Email
The Nutritionist Yogi
Look good and feel better
Menu
Yoga & Breathing
Nutrition
Blog
About
Contact
Home » Gut health
Category: Gut health
17th October 2018
Supplements for Vitiligo
Vitiligo is an autoimmune condition and as such certain dietary protocols as well as supplements can be used to support the immune system for those that experience the characteristic skin depigmentation. The scope of this article however is to discuss the supplements that have been shown in clinical trials to help the repigmentation of the skin.
In most cases supplementation was accompanied by the use of light therapy.
Khellin.
For thousand of years the treatment of “leukoderma” (vitiligo) involved the topical application or ingestion of seeds or plant extracts and the subsequent exposure to sunlight. Khellin is an extract from the seeds of the plant khella found in the eastern Meditteranean area. Supplementation of Khellin has been repeatedly shown (Abdel-Fattah, A. et al., 1982, Orecchia, G. et al., 1998, de LEEUW, J. et al., 2003) to improve the repigmentation of the skin.
There have been cases though (Ortel, B. et al., 1988) that after 4-6 weeks of khellin supplementation the elevation of transaminases was observed and for these individuals had to discontinue the treatment.
L-phenylalanine.
In search for re-pigmentation solutions for vitiligo, a group of scientists in Amsterdam – NL (Cormane R et al., 1985), noted that patients with phenylketonuria (who among other symptoms have lighter than normal skin) when administrated tyrosine and were incubated with UV-light had normal melanin production. Cormane’s team initially tried the tyrosine & UV-A protocol in a pilot study of 5 without any success. Sequentially they tried phenylalanine (a precursor of tyrosine) seeing improvement in 95% of the subjects after 6 to 8 months. The theory put forward on why phenylalanine benefits vitiligo patches was that it stops antibodies and allows sun radiation to stimulate melanocytes from other areas to migrate to the damaged ones (Camacho, F. and Mazuecos, J., 1999).
50 mg/kg of body weight per day of phenylalanine was administered 1 hour prior to UV A irradiation (twice per week). Of the 19 participants:
i. 5 noted dense re-pigmentation in 6 to 8 months
ii. 13 saw sparse re-pigmentation in the same period
iii. and 1 had no re-pigmentation even after 8 months.
Since the 1980’s there has been no more research examining the benefits of phenylalanine for vitiligo. All 3 studies combining the administration of the amino acid & UVA exposure as well as the 1 that used just the amino acid reported positive outcomes (Szczurko, O. and Boon, H.S., 2008).
Additional supplements.
PABA is an ingredient often used in sunscreen lotions. One study showed PABA to support repigmentation (Sieve B F, 1942) but currently there is limited research to confirm these findings. An 8 years old girl developed hemolytic anemia and hepatotoxicity after administration of PABA for 4 months. Symptoms were reversed 2 months after discontinuing the supplement (Tootoonchi, P., 2018). PABA has also been reported to cause depigmentation (Hughes, C. G., 1983)
Vitamin E (Szczurko, O. and Boon, H.S., 2008) and vitamin C have also been shown to support re-pigmentation potentially due to their antioxidant properties.
Conclusion.
The results in the above studies are very promising. However, as I mentioned already, in certain cases there have been adverse effects such as the development of cirrhosis which highlights the importance of complimentary testing and supervision.
References.
Abdel-Fattah, A., Aboul-Enein, M. N., Wasset, G. M., & El-Menshawi, B. S. (1982). An approach to the treatment of vitiligo by khellin. Dermatology, 165(2), 136-140.
Camacho, F. and Mazuecos, J., 1999. Treatment of vitiligo with oral and topical phenylalanine: 6 years of experience. Archives of dermatology, 135(2), pp.216-217.
Cormane, R.H., Siddiqui, A.H., Westerhof, W. and Schutgens, R.B.H., 1985. Phenylalanine and UVA light for the treatment of vitiligo. Archives of Dermatological Research, 277(2), pp.126-130.
de LEEUW, J., MAIERHOFER, G., & NEUGEBAUER, W. D. (2003). A case study to evaluate the treatment of vitiligo with khellin encapsulated in L‐phenylalanin stabilized phosphatidylcholine liposomes in combination with ultraviolet light therapy. European Journal of Dermatology, 13(5), 474-477.
Hughes, C. G. (1983). Oral PABA and vitiligo. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 9(5), 770.
Szczurko, O. and Boon, H.S., 2008. A systematic review of natural health product treatment for vitiligo. BMC dermatology, 8(1), p.2.
Sieve, B. F. (1942). The clinical effects of a new B-complex factor, para-aminobenzoic acid, on pigmentation and fertility. South Med Surg, 104(135), 9.
Orecchia, G., Sangalli, M. E., Gazzaniga, A., & Giordano, F. (1998). Topical photochemotherapy of vitiligo with a new khellin formulation: preliminary clinical results. Journal of dermatological treatment, 9(2), 65-69.
Ortel, B., Tanew, A., & Hönigsmann, H. (1988). Treatment of vitiligo with khellin and ultraviolet A. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 18(4), 693-701.
Tootoonchi, P. (2018). Hemolytic Anemia and Other Side Effects of Para-amino Benzoic Acid in an 8-Year-Old Girl. Iranian Journal of Pediatric Hematology & Oncology, 8(3).
by Anastasis
Fertility
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Mental health
Methylation
16th October 2018
How to test for Celiac Disease?
The only way you can get a definite YES or a NO for Celiac Disease (CD) is by doing intestinal biopsy. As this is an invasive and expensive procedure, many prefer measuring serum antibodies as an initial screening process. When someone decides to test for antibodies against gluten it is necessary to keep in mind:
a) that the gluten protein is fairly complex and thus all antibodies need to be tested
b) that the blood test is not a substitute for the biopsy.
Whichever assessment method one decides to use it is important to know that:
“For CD, early diagnosis means early intervention with treatment and prevention of long-term complications, including the development of severe and irreversible phenotypes and of other autoimmune disorders.” (Ventura A et al., 2010)
Intestinal biopsy is the golden standard for diagnosing Celiac Disease.
An individual is classified as celiac when a biopsy of the duodenal mucosa is taken which detects:
a) a reduction or disappearance of intestinal villi &
b) intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) higher than 25/100 enterocytes (Sapone A. et al., 2012).
Individuals presenting with significant villous atrophy are classified as CD March stage III, whereas normal villi but increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes are classified as Marsh I or II (Hill ID et al., 2005). Marsh type II may also suffer from CD but positive serological tests is needed to strengthen the diagnosis (Hill ID et al., 2005). When only elevated IELs are observed but no damage of the intestinal lining, it is difficult to diagnose CD (Kakar eta l., 200). In literature this state is usually referred to as latent CD (Dewar et al., 2005) and further testing is required.
Can elevated IELs be due to a different cause other than Celiac Disease?
The presence of IELs can be due to gastrointestinal inflammation caused by H. pylori (Memeo et al., 2005) or tropical sprue (Ross et al., 1981). Unexplained neurological or psychiatric disorders such as autism, schizophrenia, and cerebellar ataxia (Cascella N et al., 2009, Burk K et al., 2009, Genuis S and Bouchard T, 2010) are also linked with elevated IELs and no mucosal damage.
Can a blood test confirm Celiac Disease?
No. However, a lot of the time serum antibody testing is used in the screening process. The ones necessary are: anti-DGP IgG & anti-tTG IgA
Antibodies for the diagnosis of Celiac Disease
Antibodies
Accurate
Not affected by IgA deficiency
Not prone to interpretation
Cheap
Appropriate for children <2 years old
AGA IgA
√
√
AGA IgG
√
√
√
√
EMA IgA
√
tTG IgA
√
√
DGP IgG
√
√
√
√
Anti-Actin IgA
classic Anti-gliadin (AGA) antibody IgA
Pros:
1. relatively cheap
Cons:
1. found in healthy individuals (Bizzaro N et al., 2012)
2. May fluctuate within the first 2 years of age (Simell et al., 2007)
3. relatively insensitive (Fasano A, 2013)
AGA-IgG
Pros:
1. useful for pediatric patients with CD who test negative for anti-tTG (Carlsson A et al. 2001, Lagerqvist C et al., 2008).
2. useful in patients with IgA deficiency (Villalta D et al., 2007).
3. reasonably cheap
3. Same results where obtained with the DGP IgG test (Liu E et al., 2007, Agardh D 2007, Basso D et al., 2009, Naiyer A et al., 2009).
4. Remains constant the first 2 years of age (Simell et al., 2007)
Cons:
1. relatively insensitive (Fasano A, 2013)
EmA (Endomysial Antibodies – antigliadin) IgA (unless IgG requested)
Pros:
1. It is equally specific with the anti-tTG antibodies, meaning it recognizes the same antigens (Hill 2005)
Cons:
1. It is prone to subjective interpretation
2. It is less sensitive than the anti-tTG (Biagi F et al., 2001, Baudon J et al., 2004, Lock et al., 2004, Kaukinen K et al., 2007).
3. Not accurate in patients with selective IgA deficiency.
4. May fluctuate within the first 2 years of age (Simell et al., 2007)
5 *The IgG version has inferior sensitivity (Fasano A, 2013)
anti-tTG (antihuman tissue transglutaminase) IgA (unless IgG requested)
Pros:
1. As it is quantitative, automated and not prone to subjective interpretation
2. high diagnostic sensitivity (95%) specificity (97%) (Tozzoli et al., 2010)
Cons:
1. Anti-tTG IgA is not sensitive enough to be used alone and the addition of the anti-DGP IgG test would increase the accuracy for CD especially in children (Niveloni S et al., 2007, Villalta D et al., 2007, Volta U et al., 2010, Tonutti E et al., 2009, Villalta et al., 2010, Maglio M et al., 2010)
2. May fluctuate within the first 2 years of age (Simell et al., 2007)
3 *The IgG version has inferior sensitivity (Fasano A, 2013)
DGP antibodies IgG (deamidated gliadin peptide)
Pros:
1. antibodies comparable sensitivity and specificity to anti-tTG and EMA (Sugai E et al., 2006)
2. Remains constant the first 2 years of age (Simell et al., 2007)
3. DGP IgG test positive in 80% of cases of CD patients with IgA deficiency as compared to 40% for AGA IgG ( Villalta et al., 2010)
ANTI-ACTIN IgA
Pros: can evaluate the severity as it is related to the severity of intestinal damage (Granito A et al., 2004, Carroccio A et al., 2005)
Cons: limited usefulness for diagnosis
“In monitoring of patients on a gluten-free diet, positivity with a low titer of anti-DGP antibodies suggests that the diet should be reassessed, even if the anti-tTG test is negative” (Tursi et al., 2006)
Interpretation of serological and biopsy test results
Biopsy
+
–
Serology
+
CD
Absence of CD and possible false-positive blood test. A negative genetic test can strengthen the negative diagnosis.
–
This result is treated as CD. However, inflammation in the lining can be due to other causes, including intolerances to other foods.
No CD. However, in the presence of other autoimmune conditions or genetic predisposition, future monitoring may be appropriate.
Which other blood biomarkers are available?
While the tests above are the ones most commonly done there is evidence that more thorough testing may be needed for those with negative results and positive symptoms. A complete antibody screening should include: Alpha gliadin, Omega gliadin, Gamma gliadin, Deamidated gliadin, TG2, TG3, TG6.
Deamidation is an acid or enzymatic treatment used by the food processing industry to make wheat, water-soluble so it mixes with other foods. It has been shown to cause severe immune responses to people (Leduc V et al., 2003).
Gliadin is broken down to alpha, omega and gamma fractions. If a lab tests only for alpha gliadin antibodies the results may be misleading (Quartesn H et al. 2001).
Elevated antibodies of TG2 indicated a reaction against the intestinal track (Thomas H et al., 2011). Transglutaminase 3 (TG3) is found in the skin. An autoimmune reaction to skin may lead to skin disorder known as dermatitis herpetidormis, which presents as itchy red blisters found usually in the knees, elbows, buttocks but can appear anywhere on the body (Stamnaes I et al., 2010). Elevated antibodies to transglutaminase 6 indicate an immune response against the nervous system (Alessio et al., 2012).
by Anastasis
Fertility
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Mental health
Weight management
body composition
Dysbiosis
Gut health
28th June 2017
Reversing Vitiligo
(Updated: 17th Oct 2018)
Vitiligo (also called “leukoma”) is an autoimmune condition where loss of pigment from areas of the skin result in irregular white patches, the texture of which remain normal. Similar with all autoimmune disorders:
i. the body is attacking its own tissue. In the case of vitiligo the body is attacking the melanocytes (the cells responsible for skin colouring).
ii. the triggering cause may vary. I have seen 1 case where it started after a car accident at an early stage of life & another where it developed after a stressful period at late 40s.
iii. the development of the disease is the result of genetic predisposition as well as environmental factors.
iv. there is a higher than normal risk for the simultaneous presence of other autoimmune conditions.
Cease the Fire.
As an autoimmune condition vitiligo has to be treated as an immunological problem and not solely as a skin one. While the symptoms manifest in the skin it is the immune system that is over-reacting. This is the reason why in many cases immunosuppressive drugs are prescribed (Boone B., et al., 2007). Stopping the over-activity of the immune system may not be as straight forward as we wish. Foods, heavy metals, infections have been shown or speculated to be the root cause of this unfavourable behaviour of the immune system (IS).
In order to address each of the above one can:
i. follow an anti-inflammatory diet.
ii. remove any obvious toxic deposits in the body (i.e. mercury fillings, tattoos)
iii. get tested for carrying any of the common viruses associated with autoimmunity (i.e. Epstein Barr virus)
Test for other AI conditions.
While there are 100s of autoimmune conditions, Hashimoto’s & Celiac Disease have been shown to have a higher prevalence among patients of vitiligo. Hashimoto’s can be easily diagnosed through an inexpensive blood test for TPO (Thyroid peroxidase) & TgAB (Thyroglobulin) antibodies. The diagnosis of Celiac Disease requires a biopsy which is why a lot of patients with vitiligo decide to eliminate gluten from their diet without going through the hustle of testing.
If the body is attacking more than one of its own tissue it is best for all autoimmune cases to be supported at the same time.
Light Therapy.
For the depigmentation is of the “milky” patches the 2 versions of light therapy have been used successfully are: Narrowband UVB & Targeted light therapy (Grimers PE 2005).
Narrowband UV-B involves the use of UV lamps with a peak emission around 311 nm. It induces local immunosuppression while stimulating the production of melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and the increase of melanocyte proliferation and melanogenesis. In a study (Njoo M D et al., 2000) where 51 children with generalised vitiligo were treated with narrowband UV-B:
a) 53% achieved >75% of repigmentation
b) 29% had 26-50% of repigmentation
c) 18% had <25% of repigmentation
The main advantages of narrowband UV-B include:
a) safety for both adults & children
b) lack of systemic adverse effects
Source: Njoo M D et al., 1998
A number of supplements have been shown to help reverse vitiligo. Accompanying light therapy with supplementation is likely to amply its benefits.
Which Genes?
NLRP1 gene
NLRP1 is a gene involved in the production of proteins called inflammasomes. Inflammasomes participate in the regulation of the immune system & mutations in NLRP1 have been associated with the presence of autoimmune disorders. The rs6502867 variant of the NLRP1 gene (risky allele: T) was associated with vitiligo in an Indian study (Dwivedi M et al., 2013).
Phytonutrient (EGCG) in green tea has been shown to inhibit the action of the NLRP1 gene (Ellis L et al., 2010).
Methylation
Methylation is a process responsible for many functions in the body including cell replication and DNA repair. A study published among 80 individuals (40 with vitiligo & 40 controls) (Yasar, A et al., 2012) showed no correlation between mutations in MTHFR or the levels of serum folate & vitamin B12 among the patients. Had the study measured red blood cell folate and vitamin B12 their findings would have been more significant.
Both folate & vitamin B12 (which directly support the methylation pathway) have been used by vitiligo patients with positive outcomes.
Case Study.
The photos in the image above are from a female client in her 50’s. She was following the Wahls dietary protocol for 6 months as an anti-inflammatory / auto-immune friendly approach. The main adjustments in her diet where the increase of fats through nuts & seeds as well as progressing from 2 meals and 1 snack a day to a 16-8 hours fast and then to 1 meal a day (twice per week). Breathing exercises as well as progressive exposure to cold (through showers) were also part of her protocol.
References.
Boone, B., Ongenae, K., Van Geel, N., Vernijns, S., De Keyser, S. and Naeyaert, J.M., 2007. Topical pimecrolimus in the treatment of vitiligo. European Journal of Dermatology, 17(1), pp.55-61.
Dwivedi, M., Laddha, N.C., Mansuri, M.S., Marfatia, Y.S. and Begum, R., 2013. Association of NLRP1 genetic variants and mRNA overexpression with generalized vitiligo and disease activity in a Gujarat population. British Journal of Dermatology, 169(5), pp.1114-1125.
Ellis, L.Z., Liu, W., Luo, Y., Okamoto, M., Qu, D., Dunn, J.H. and Fujita, M., 2011. Green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin-3-gallate suppresses melanoma growth by inhibiting inflammasome and IL-1β secretion. Biochemical and biophysical research communications, 414(3), pp.551-556.
Grimes, P. E. (2005). New insights and new therapies in vitiligo. Jama, 293(6), 730-735.
Njoo, M. D., Bos, J. D., & Westerhof, W. (2000). Treatment of generalized vitiligo in children with narrow-band (TL-01) UVB radiation therapy. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 42(2), 245-253.
Njoo, M. D., Spuls, P., Bos, J. T. A., Westerhof, W., & Bossuyt, P. M. M. (1998). Nonsurgical repigmentation therapies in vitiligo: meta-analysis of the literature. Archives of dermatology, 134(12), 1532-1540.
Yasar, A., Gunduz, K., Onur, E. and Calkan, M., 2012. Serum homocysteine, vitamin B12, folic acid levels and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene polymorphism in vitiligo. Disease markers, 33(2), pp.85-89.
by Anastasis
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Methylation
Nutrigenomics
autoimmunity
vitiligo
28th May 2017
How to detect vitamin B12 deficiency
Vitamin B12 is common and unfortunately one cannot rely on serum vitamin B12 to detect a deficiency. Vitamin B12 is carried in the blood by either of 2 proteins: haptocorrin and holotranscobalamin. While the majority of vitamin B12 is carried by haptocorrin, this vitamin B12 is considered inactive* [1]. A serum vitamin B12 test cannot differentiate between the active and inactive form and as a result while the level may appear healthy, the active form of vitamin B12 may be significantly low.
Which test is best to identify vitamin B12 deficiency?
The most direct why to detect vitamin B12 deficiency is to measure your active form of B12: holotranscobalamin. Biolab in UK offers that test.
If that test is not available to you, your 2nd best option is to measure your homocysteine levels. Homocysteine is a protein humans synthesise in their body and it’s considered one of the most significant biomarkers of cardiovascular health. Its production relies on the availability of vitamin B12, folate & protein.
source: PMID 16702348 [4]
As multiple other factors though affect the levels of Homocysteine, one cannot drive conclusive results for her vitamin B12 just knowing her homocysteine level.
Which symptoms indicate vitamin B12 deficiency?
Vitamin B12 plays a critical role in the methylation cycle [3] (which consists of the folate & methionine cycle). As a result any problems associated with methylation may be driven due to:
low vitamin B12 intake (important for vegans and vegetarians)
poor absorption (relevant for those with poor gastrointestinal function) [2] or
compromised metabolism (possibly due to MTR & MTRR polymorphisms)
* due to the fact that haptocorrin receptors are found mainly in the liver.
Morkbak, A.L., Poulsen, S.S. and Nexo, E., 2007. Haptocorrin in humans. Clinical Chemical Laboratory Medicine, 45(12), pp.1751-1759.
Schjønsby, H., 1989. Vitamin B12 absorption and malabsorption. Gut, 30(12), p.1686.
Miller, A., Korem, M., Almog, R. and Galboiz, Y., 2005. Vitamin B12, demyelination, remyelination and repair in multiple sclerosis. Journal of the neurological sciences, 233(1), pp.93-97.
Refsum, H., Nurk, E., Smith, A.D., Ueland, P.M., Gjesdal, C.G., Bjelland, I., Tverdal, A., Tell, G.S., Nygård, O. and Vollset, S.E., 2006. The Hordaland Homocysteine Study: a community-based study of homocysteine, its determinants, and associations with disease. The Journal of nutrition, 136(6), pp.1731S-1740S.
by Anastasis
Fertility
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Mental health
Methylation
Nutrigenomics
Weight management
Cardiovascular Health
Homocysteine
methylation
vitamin B12
20th April 2017
Fasting Diet: progressions
Updated: 26 Sep 2018
This article is written with deep respect in the process of fasting and consciousness that its epigenetic effects are far reaching. Fasting in my opinion is something we all need to be comfortable with. There are many disputes on what the healthiest diet is, with advocates of the different diets often trying to support their view using ethnological and ancestral data. It is clear though to everyone that our ancestors had to survive periods of fasting independent of their diet (whether the famine was caused due to lack of game or a disaster in the crops).
My Journey with the Fasting Diet
I have been following a Fasting Diet on and off since September 2009. In my first attempt to fast (after reading my first book on nutrition called: Food Governs your Destiny) I set x3 2hour slots in the day during which I allowed myself to eat. Outside these windows I would consume only liquids. I stayed on the diet for 6 months, during which I:
👉🏻 reduced my waist circumference from 34 to 29 inches.
👉🏻 lost 7.5 kilos.
👉🏻 achieved mental clarity I have never experienced before.
During a big part of these 6 months I was vegetarian.
In 2016 I decided that as a way of monitoring my metabolism I would like to measure the production of ketones in my body. Between October 2016 and February 2017 I monitored my Blood Glucose (BG) and Ketone Bodies (KB) – beta-hydroxybutyric acid on a daily basis. Monitoring can be useful:
👉🏻 as feedback for one’s response to food / exercise.
👉🏻 for compliance when BG & KB targets are set.
During this period there were weeks of following a vegetarian diet but most days I consumed meat.
Fast Diet: Progressions
Bellow I share what I consider to be a natural progression of fasting. Of course everyone’s starting point is different: not everyone starts with a: 3 meals and 2 snacks diet and neither do we all have the same tolerance to the changes each step requires. I imagine you have not been eating the same way all your life, after all. If you are not sure how quickly you should progress from one stage to the next I suggest you err on the safe side. Most people will find progressions comfortable if they spend 1-2 months on each stage. Those with a healthy relationship to food will evolve our fasting practice over our lifespan.
⏱ Time Restrict your Eating
I consider the 16-8h type-diet to be an easy one for most people to adopt. During this diet you restrict your caloric intake over an 8 hour window. The remaining 16 hours one is allowed to have non-caloric drinks such as water, coffee and tea. The easiest way to get into it, is to prolong the overnight fast. Assuming one sleeps for 8 hours and stops eating 4 hours prior to going to bed, she / he can achieve the 16/8h fast by eating 4 hours after waking up. If the idea still feels daunting here are a few tips to ease your way into it:
👉🏻 Start with a 12-12h diet and gradually increase the fasting window. The danger here is not to be consistent. Decide which window schedule suits you and stick to it for at least 1 week before increasing the fasting phase.
👉🏻 Take days off if you find the idea of doing it daily suffocating. However have the days scheduled before hand and do not change them. You know you are ready to proceed when you have completed 4 consecutive weeks with 5 days per week on your “Time Restricted Eating” schedule.
🌞 Eat while the Sun is up
While I acknowledge that many people working in offices have more physically active evenings than mornings; the body’s biological clock will not flip upside down because you signed up at the 20:30 CrossFit class. Neither your sleeping time can accommodate all the digestion you wish just because your gym class finishes at 22:00. As a next step to a “Time Restricted Eating” I consider to be the swift of the eating window earlier in the day. How early is early? – you decide. My suggestion is to finish eating prior to the sunset and ideally by midday. As you can see in the infographic from a 2018 paper [1], time restricting food to the earlier part of the day causes an number of beneficial effects:
Actions that helped me with this transition:
👉🏻 Exercise earlier in the day.
👉🏻 Make sure the quality of my sleep is not compromised. Supplements as well as breathing practices can support a good night sleep. Initially prolonged fasts can lead to elevated cortisol levels which will mess up with sleep. Poor sleep leads to tiredness and erratic appetite the next day.
⏰ Set your Eating Times
That stage could also be called: Stop snaking. Most of us (living a western lifestyle) have constant access to food and numerous stressors during our day. The combination of the two in many cases lead to binging / snaking. Whether you call it comfort food or not, every extra meal (and by meal let’s call anything containing more than 20 calories) requires the activation of the pancreas and the subsequent release of insulin. Insulin is a hormone with multiple roles in our biochemistry other than food metabolism. With that in mind I don’t find strange that hormonal imbalances are common in those with erratic eating patterns.
If one attempts to “Set her Eating Times” while she is eating during daytime only, I expect this transition not to be a big challenge. On the other hand shifting from a 16-8h fast to a “Set Eating Times” schedule can be a bigger step.
Setting the times when someone eats is a personal issue and can be scheduled around her lifestyle. My suggestion is to schedule no more than 3 meals a day and if for whatever reason a meal is lost not to be replaced.
☝🏻 Eat Once a Day
If you have been following the progression described above I would be surprised if you are eating more than twice a day by now. Eating once can be something you want to try occasionally based on your energy expenditure & mood.
😶 Eat only When Hungry & As much as you Need
Even when I eat once a day I sometimes find hard not to overeat. I consider our relationship with food complex and the addictive aspect of it multidimensional. We can be addicted to:
👉🏻 certain foods.
👉🏻 the sensation of fullness.
Whatever the addiction is it will always manifest to emotions which make it hard to break loose off. To that extent I would like to clarify that:
“I consider eating one of the big joys of life & fasting can only enhance this sensation.”
Fasting works as a challenge for the body. This doesn’t mean it makes it makes the body weaker. In the same way that you would not assume a runner to be doing harm to her body just because her legs are weak at the end of a training session, don’t be afraid of fasting.
Fast Diet: Considerations
Most people when they consider fasting, they are worried about their energy levels and muscle mass maintenance. The energy levels may fluctuate initially : that is due not to lack of energy but to poor hormone regulation. Even if you have 9% of body fat, there is enough energy stored in your body to keep you alive for days. Fluctuations in energy levels can be caused because your metabolism has no access to your fat. If you are concerned with maintaining muscle mass I suggest you keep your protein intake high when you eat (~x1.6 gr of protein per body weight in kg)
Those that depend on constant energy supply (ie. 3 meals a day + 2 snacks), are the ones that would benefit the most from fasting.
🔑 Things to consider
👉🏻 Always keep your (AME) Appetite, Mood and Energy levels in check. If one of them is not under control adjustments may be necessary. In most cases soon after one gets out of control the other 2 follow.
👉🏻 Our life changes constantly and so will our mood, circadian cycle, appetite, needs for nutrients etc. I hope this article works as a road map not an itinerary.
👉🏻 Food composition can affect your Blood Glucose and consequently your fasting phases. Fibre, fat, protein can slow down your meals’ metabolism which is necessary initially.
👉🏻 Metabolism is complex and its efficiency depends on many factors including: oxygen availability & insulin sensitivity. Practicing yoga, breathing exercise and cold exposure can be very useful towards improving metabolic efficiency and supporting a fasting practice.
Things to consume while fasting
In order to maintain the calories low during fasting my suggestion is to limit your liquid intake to coffee & teas. If stimulants play havoc in your metabolism & appetite you should avoid caffeinated drinks all together. I have been consuming them freely. Two things that can help a lot in extending your fasting periods are:
👉🏻 Water – in particular carbonated. I think it is easier if one takes sips during the day aiming for 1-3 litters as opposed to drinking 3 glasses when filling peckish.
👉🏻 Magnesium Citrate powder (I like the one from Designers for Health). Its sweet taste can help deal with a sweet tooth while the Magnesium supports the adrenals & promotes gut mobility.
👉🏻 Brushing teeth after eating. Making sure mouth hygiene is in check can help in 2 ways: 1. some associate a clean mouth with the end of eating 2. food leftovers will stop triggering taste buds receptors.
References:
1. Sutton, E. F., Beyl, R., Early, K. S., Cefalu, W. T., Ravussin, E., & Peterson, C. M. (2018). Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Insulin Sensitivity, Blood Pressure, and Oxidative Stress Even without Weight Loss in Men with Prediabetes. Cell Metabolism.
by Anastasis
Detox
Fertility
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Mental health
Weight management
Wim Hof Method
body composition
Cancer
Fasting
Hormone balance
Insulin Resistance
Intermittent Fasting
mental health
nutrition
15th April 2017
Leaky gut: the trojan horse to food allergies?
Leaky Gut is a digestive track with a compromised permeability (like a hose with holes).
While the SYMPTOMS OF A LEAKY GUT ARE NOT ONLY ASSOCIATED WITH DIGESTION many people suffering from it experience food sensitivities. That’s why in my opinion:
Elimination diets (i.e. FODMAP, low oxalate, low histamine diets) do not work long term: foods that cause reactions are removed but the reason why the reaction was there are 1st place stays.
Most chronically ill patients have restricted diets: the body is not able to renew the epithelial tissue in the gut leading to poor gut integrity ➛ increased gut permeability ➛ food sensitivities.
Diversity in gut flora is positively associated with health: A diverse gut flora supports gut integrity.
The reason why the above hold true can be traced to the double role of the gut:
digest and absorb nutrients
host part of the immune system
The immune system in the gut has the delicate role of balancing between: Tolerating or Reacting to the foods it comes in contact with. The evolutionary benefit of this role is the following:
Foods we consume can be degraded or containing toxins and thus be poisonous to the body. In these cases the activation of the immune system can kill the pathogenic substances and protect us. This process is mediated through a series of steps leading to the increase of intestinal permeability.
Unfortunately in certain people the same reaction is triggered not only by toxins but also by regular foods. In these cases after the consumption of the “trigger food” the individual experiences a reaction such as: foggy brain, bloatness, diarrhea, stomach cramps, increased heart rate, running nose, anxiety, irritability. Reducing gut permeability (i.e. healing leaky gut) can make previous “trigger foods” tolerable again.
Testing for leaky gut.
Our gut wall consists of just one cell thick epithelial tissue (Sturgeon, C. and Fasano, A., 2016) . The space between each epithelial cell is called tight junction.
Lactulose/Mannitol test
The test that has been used the longest for detecting leaky gut is the lactulose/mannitol urine test. The test is simple: after an overnight (12 hour) fast you collect the urine then have a solution of lactulose & mannitol and 6 hours later you collect the urine again.
Mannitol enters the body through the epithelial cell membrane, while lactulose goes through the tight junctions (FlemIng, S.C. et al., 1990)
The loss of absorptive areas ➛ ↓ the absorption of mannitol.
The loss of mucosal integrity ➛ ↑ lactulose absorption.
An elevated lactulose : mannitol ratio indicates the presence of leaky gut. The test is available from many labs including Genova Diagnostics. The results can be affected by the use of NSAIDS, alcohol and according to Dr. Alesio Fasano the results are very sensitive to the collection process and thus may not be reliable when done outside a lab.
3 stool markers of leaky gut (α1-Antitrypsin – sIgA – calprotectin)
α1-Antitrypsin
is a protein of the liver. When detected in stool (sourced from the intestines) it indicates a severe case of intestinal permeability and thus is not a sensitive enough marker of leaky gut (Biancone, L. et al., 2003)
sIgA
is part of the immune system and functions as a tag for substances that need to be excreted.
Calprotectin
is a protein linked with intestinal inflammation. It is used to distinguish between IBD & IBS (Leblhuber, F., et al., 2015).
3 blood markers of leaky gut (Zonulin – LPS – DAO)
Zonulin
Zolulin is a protein responsible for the modulation of tight junctions (Sturgeon, C. and Fasano, A., 2016).
↑ levels of Zonulin ➛ Opening of tight junctions ➛ influx of dietary & microbial antigens in the blood
The 2 main triggers of Zonulin release have been found to be:
Bacteria: including Eschericha coli, lab E. coli, virulent E. coli, and Salmonella typhi (El Asmar et al. 2002)
Gliadin: a protein found in gluten (Clemente, M et al., 2003)
Elevated levels of Zonulin have been linked in literature (Sturgeon, C. and Fasano, A., 2016) to:
autoimmune conditions such as: Type 1 Diabetes, Celiac Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Intestinal Bowel Diseases
metabolic disorders such as: Obesity & PCOS
Asthma
Coronary Heart Disease
Systemic infections
Gluten Sensitivity
Necrotizing Enterocolitis
Brain cancer (Skardelly, M et al., 2009) by altering the integrity of the Blood Brain Barrier.
Lipopolysaccharide Bacterial Endotoxin
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a component of the wall of gram-negative bacteria (Trent, M.S et al., 2006) responsible for the activation of the innate immune system. LPS have 3 regions. Lab tests measure the lipid A region which is also known as endotoxin. Germ-negative bacteria live in the lumen of the gut but should not be found in the blood. Detection of LPS endotoxins in the blood is sign of leaky gut.
DAO
Dunwoody Labs measures the levels of DAO enzyme in their intestinal permeability test. DAO is responsible for the break down of histamine. Histamine while necessary for good gut health when elevated can cause problems. Low levels of DAO thus is also a sign of leaky gut. Genetic polymorphisms in the AOC1 gene (which encodes the DAO enzyme) can impair the body’s ability to produce the DAO. Those with low levels can check their genetic burden using the table bellow.
source: Instagram, Opus23
The future of leaky gut testing
While not currently available for the general public I-FABP is a marker of gut permeability used in laboratories. Intestinal fatty acid binding protein (I-FABP), is a marker of early enterocyte cell death (Derikx, J.P. et al., 2010)
How to support leaky gut.
When it comes to supporting leaky gut I like to split the nutrients in 2 categories:
the ones affecting the mechanisms that cause the problem (these are the ones that ultimately will heal the intestines)
the ones that suppress the symptoms – commonly referred to as anti-inflammatory (these are the ones that should help ameliorate the symptoms)
Avoid trigger foods
While I consider elimination diets not a good idea long-term in the short run it is important to remove any trigger foods to control inflammation. IgG food intolerance tests can be very useful for that matter.
Probiotics
I consider the use of probiotics the most potent yet the most tricky in implementation among all interventions. Certain probiotic strains have been found to induce cell proliferation in gut cells:
Bifidobacterium breve R0070 & Lactococcus lactis R1058 when taken taken together seem to have synergistic effects and both can be found in the Jarrow-Dophilus EPS. (Grimoud, J. et al., 2010 *)
Some others that were shown to suppress inflammation induced by LPS levels are:
Bifidobacterium longum subsp. Infantis, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium bifidum, Lactobacillus rhamnosus – in the order mentioned (Laetitia, R. et al., 2013)
Lactobacillus reuteri strain, ATCC PTA 6475 – available from Biogaia. (Thomas, C.M. and Versalovic, J., 2010)
Bifidobacterium infantis 35624 (Groeger, D. et al., 2013)
* The French study by Julien Grimoud is a goldmine of information.
Mushrooms
Edible & medicinal mushrooms have been shown to activate & modulate the immune system in the gut acting this way as anti-inflammatory in LPS toxicity. A. bisporus, C. cibarius and L. deliciosus (Saffron Milkcap mushroom) are mushroom extracts available in supplemental form (Moro, C. et al., 2012).
Berberine
Berberine is an alkaloid found in some plants shown to inhibit the inflammatory effects of LPS (Mo, C. et al., 2014, Wu, Y.H., et al., 2012). Berberine has been shown to interact with 57 genes, so cross-checking polymorphisms related to other symptoms is worth doing.
source: Opus23
Other agents
Quercetin & CoQ10 were also shown to have anti-inflammatory effects in LPS toxicity (Abd el-gawad, H.M. and Khalifa, A.E., 2001). Fish Oils were shown to restore intestinal integrity by increasing DAO enzyme concentration in the gut (Liu, Y. et al., 2012).
L-glutamine
L-glutamine acts as fuel for intestinal cells (Larson, S.D, et al., 2007) and to that extent supplementation can benefit leaky gut. Gradually building the dosage from as little as 2.5 gr per day to 20 gr should be a safe way to avoid adverse reactions. I have not seen any studies demonstrating the benefits of L-glutamine supplementation for leaky gut however it does support overall intestinal health.
Larazotide acetate
Larazotide acetate is a protein shown to inhibit Zonulin production without any adverse effects (Paterson, B.M et al., 2007). Alba Therapeutics an Indian pharmaceutical company is in the process of developing a drug with this protein.
References
Abd el-gawad, H.M. and Khalifa, A.E., 2001. Quercetin, coenzyme Q 10, and l-canavanine as protective agents against lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide generation in endotoxin-induced shock in rat brain. Pharmacological research, 43(3), pp.257-263.
Biancone, L., Fantini, M., Tosti, C., Bozzi, R., Vavassori, P. and Pallone, F., 2003. Fecal α1-antitrypsin clearance as a marker of clinical relapse in patients with Crohn’s disease of the distal ileum. European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology, 15(3), pp.261-266.
Clemente, M.G., De Virgiliis, S., Kang, J.S., Macatagney, R., Musu, M.P., Di Pierro, M.R., Drago, S., Congia, M. and Fasano, A., 2003. Early effects of gliadin on enterocyte intracellular signalling involved in intestinal barrier function. Gut, 52(2), pp.218-223.
Derikx, J.P., Luyer, M.D., Heineman, E. and Buurman, W.A., 2010. Non-invasive markers of gut wall integrity in health and. World J Gastroenterol, 16(42), pp.5272-5279.
El Asmar, R., Panigrahi, P., Bamford, P., Berti, I., Not, T., Coppa, G.V., Catassi, C. and Fasano, A., 2002. Host-dependent zonulin secretion causes the impairment of the small intestine barrier function after bacterial exposure. Gastroenterology, 123(5), pp.1607-1615.
FlemIng, S.C., Kapembwa, M.S., Laker, M.F., Levin, G.E. and Griffin, G.E., 1990. Rapid and simultaneous determination of lactulose and mannitol in urine, by HPLC with pulsed amperometric detection, for use in studies of intestinal permeability. Clinical chemistry, 36(5), pp.797-799.
Grimoud, J., Durand, H., De Souza, S., Monsan, P., Ouarné, F., Theodorou, V. and Roques, C., 2010. In vitro screening of probiotics and synbiotics according to anti-inflammatory and anti-proliferative effects. International journal of food microbiology, 144(1), pp.42-50.
Groeger, D., O’Mahony, L., Murphy, E.F., Bourke, J.F., Dinan, T.G., Kiely, B., Shanahan, F. and Quigley, E.M., 2013. Bifidobacterium infantis 35624 modulates host inflammatory processes beyond the gut. Gut microbes, 4(4), pp.325-339.
Laetitia, R., Paul, A., Marinescu, D., Shao, W. and Prakash, S., 2013. Effect of probiotics Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium on gut-derived lipopolysaccharides and inflammatory cytokines: an in vitro study using a human colonic microbiota model. Journal of microbiology and biotechnology, 23(4), pp.518-526.
Larson, S.D., Li, J., Chung, D.H. and Evers, B.M., 2007. Molecular mechanisms contributing to glutamine-mediated intestinal cell survival. American Journal of Physiology-Gastrointestinal and Liver Physiology, 293(6), pp.G1262-G1271.
Leblhuber, F., Geisler, S., Steiner, K., Fuchs, D. and Schütz, B., 2015. Elevated fecal calprotectin in patients with Alzheimer’s dementia indicates leaky gut. Journal of Neural Transmission, 122(9), pp.1319-1322.
Liu, Y., Chen, F., Odle, J., Lin, X., Jacobi, S.K., Zhu, H., Wu, Z. and Hou, Y., 2012. Fish oil enhances intestinal integrity and inhibits TLR4 and NOD2 signaling pathways in weaned pigs after LPS challenge. The Journal of nutrition, 142(11), pp.2017-2024.
Mo, C., Wang, L., Zhang, J., Numazawa, S., Tang, H., Tang, X., Han, X., Li, J., Yang, M., Wang, Z. and Wei, D., 2014. The crosstalk between Nrf2 and AMPK signal pathways is important for the anti-inflammatory effect of berberine in LPS-stimulated macrophages and endotoxin-shocked mice. Antioxidants & redox signaling, 20(4), pp.574-588.
Moro, C., Palacios, I., Lozano, M., D’Arrigo, M., Guillamón, E., Villares, A., Martínez, J.A. and García-Lafuente, A., 2012. Anti-inflammatory activity of methanolic extracts from edible mushrooms in LPS activated RAW 264.7 macrophages. Food Chemistry, 130(2), pp.350-355.
Paterson, B.M., Lammers, K.M., Arrieta, M.C., Fasano, A. and Meddings, J.B., 2007. The safety, tolerance, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of single doses of AT‐1001 in coeliac disease subjects: a proof of concept study. Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics, 26(5), pp.757-766.
Skardelly, M., Armbruster, F.P., Meixensberger, J. and Hilbig, H., 2009. Expression of zonulin, c-kit, and glial fibrillary acidic protein in human gliomas. Translational oncology, 2(3), pp.117-120.
Sturgeon, C. and Fasano, A., 2016. Zonulin, a regulator of epithelial and endothelial barrier functions, and its involvement in chronic inflammatory diseases. Tissue Barriers, p.e1251384.
Thomas, C.M. and Versalovic, J., 2010. Probiotics-host communication: Modulation of signaling pathways in the intestine. Gut microbes, 1(3), pp.148-163.
Trent, M.S., Stead, C.M., Tran, A.X. and Hankins, J.V., 2006. Invited review: diversity of endotoxin and its impact on pathogenesis. Journal of endotoxin research, 12(4), pp.205-223.
Wu, Y.H., Chuang, S.Y., Hong, W.C., Lai, Y.J., Chang, G.J. and Pang, J.S., 2012. Berberine reduces leukocyte adhesion to LPS-stimulated endothelial cells and VCAM-1 expression both in vivo and in vitro. International journal of immunopathology and pharmacology, 25(3), pp.741-750.
by Anastasis
Detox
Gut health
Weight management
Dysbiosis
IBD
methylation
nutrition
Probiotics
18th February 2017
What helps Histamine Intolerance?
Updated: 28 Jan 2019
Histamine is a hormone involved in digestion, immune & nervous system function. While anti-histamine drugs are often prescribed for asthma, they are also given to those with food allergies.
Anti-histamine drugs can be life saving in times of crisis. At the same time if one doesn’t deal with what causes the reaction at 1st place she/he is trying to put off a fire by removing the battery from the fire alarm.
Which raises the question “What helps histamine intolerance?”
What is Histamine Intolerance?
Histamine is a hormone with varying functions in different tissues.
Histamine intolerance symptoms are due to histamine’s relation with the immune system. Histamine activates immune cells (basophils & mast cells) while causing blood vessels to dilate so that immune cells can be quickly transferred to kill pathogens. In that sense you can think of histamine as a fire alarm.
“Histamine intolerance is a fire alarm going on when there is no fire.”
To be more precise histamine intolerance results from imbalance between accumulated histamine and the capacity to break it down. In most cases it is due to limited histamine breakdown capacity. Like all hormones histamine needs to be eliminated from the body when it has done its job. While it is broken down by a few different enzymes (HNMT, NAT1,2 & DAO), it is the DAO (Maintz, L. and Novak, N., 2007) responsible for the breakdown of ingested histamine.
Digestion & Histamine
Gastrointestinal problems are very common among those with histamine intolerance.
While histamine is necessary for proper gut function excess levels can cause digestive complications. Bellow are a few facts highlighting the link between histamine intolerance and gut health:
a. all 4 histamine receptors H1R-H4R are found in the digestive track and they have excitatory actions there (Breunig E. et al., 2007).
b. In a study conducted in Italy, 13 out of 14 subjects (with food intolerances) reported benefits in at least 1 food after DAO supplementation (Manzotti G. et al., 2015).
c. The capacity of both histamine breakdown pathways: HNMT and DAO have been reported to be reduced in those with food intolerances (Kuefner MA et al., 2004).
d. Elevated levels of histamine in the brain have been shown to suppress appetite. (Malmlöf, K. et al., 2005)
“Diet can help histamine intolerance in 2 ways: i. reduce the histamine load ii. support histamine breakdown”
Histamine Intolerance : foods to avoid
There are 2 categories of foods those with histamine intolerance need to avoid: a. Those that contain histamine & b. those that can cause the release of histamine in the body although they don’t contain histamine (Maintz, L. and Novak, N., 2007)
#
Foods to be avoided with Histamine Intolerance
Contain Histamine
Low in Histamine (but may trigger its release)
DAO blocking
Vegetarian
Vegan
Fruits
Vinegar containing foods (ie pickles, mayonnaise, olives) X X X
Fermented foods (ie saurkraut, soy sauce, kombucha, kefir, yogurt) X X X X
Fermented foods (ie saurkraut, soy sauce, kombucha, kefir, yogurt) X X
Cured Meats (ie bacon, salami, hot dogs) X
Soured foods (ie sour cream, sour milk, buttermilk) X X
Dried fruit X X X X
Aged cheese (ie gouda, camembert, cheddar, goat cheese) X X
Nuts (walnuts, cashews, peanuts) X X X
Smoked fish & shellfish X
Chickpeas, soybeans X X X
Banana, Papaya, Pineapple, Strawberries X X X X
Chocolate X X X
Cow's milk X X
Tomatoes X X X
Black, green, mate tea X X X
Histamine Intolerance : diet
The fresher the food the lower it is in histamine. Vitamin C supplementation has also been shown to reduce histamine levels (Hemilä, H., 2014).
#
Diet for Histamine Intolerance
Vegetarian
Vegan
Fresh cooked meat, poultry
Fresh caught fish
Eggs X
Gluten free grains: rice, quinoa X X
Fresh fruits (ie mango, pear, watermelon, apples) X X
Fresh veggies (except: tomatoes, eggplant, spinach, avocado) X X
Dairy substitutes (ie coconut m rice, hemp, almond milk) X X
Cooking oils (olive & coconut) X X
Herbal teas X X
Blood sugar regulation and Histamine Intolerance
The link between histamine and diabetes goes back to the 1950 (Pini A et al., 2016).
Plasma histamine was shown to reduce after insulin administration in diabetic rats (Hollis T. et al., 1985). Two of the mechanisms through which insulin and histamine interact was that the activation of histamine 3 receptors (H3R) in pancreatic beta cells was shown to: a. inhibit insulin secretion (Nakamura T et al., 2014) b. reduce glucagon production in non-hyperglycemic state (Nakamura T et al., 2015). While the mechanisms of interaction between diabetes and histamine intolerance are currently not clear the correlation appears to be positive (Pini A et al., 2016).
To that extent a state of insulin resistance should be addressed in cases of histamine intolerance together with any other protocol.
Breathing & Histamine
Histamine release is involved in seasonal allergies. A recent novel clinical trial (Casale E. et al., 2018) has shown that inhalation of small dosages of CO2 can suppress the symptoms of seasonal allergies.
CO2 can suppress histamine release in mast cells by increasing intracellular Calcium levels (Strider J et al., 2011). While no studies so far has tested the use of breathing exercises to suppress seasonal allergies, it is well documented and clinically confirmed that certain breathing exercises can increase the levels of CO2 in the body. Based on that it is well worth considering to use breathwork for histamine intolerance.
How to test for Histamine Intolerance
Prior to treating any condition it is wise to diagnose it first. By measuring the levels of DAO enzyme in your blood you can assess your body’s capacity to breakdown histamine. The cut off level of serum DAO activity (for probable histamine intolerance) is <10 U/mL (Manzotti G. et al., 2015)
Labs that offer this service are:
Smart Nutrition in UK
ImmunoPro in Australia
Dunwoody Labs in US & UK (via Invivo clinical) – In my opinion the best test for gut integrity currently available.
23andme results & Histamine Intolerance
23andme results can be useful in identifying potential blockages in the pathway of histamine. At the same time it is dangerous to drive conclusions solely from one’s genetic make up, let alone one gene. In many cases a person may have no SNPs in the gene that produces the DAO enzyme (AOC1 gene) and at the same time experience histamine-like reactions after the consumption of red wine for instance. The case bellow is such an example.
The woman is in her mid 40s, vegetarian with a more or less healthy lifestyle. She carries only 1 homozygous polymorphism in the AOC1 gene which has been shown to be beneficial.
Source: Opus23
While there seems to be no burden on the production of DAO if you look at the entire pathway you will see that she carries SNPs in the HNMT and MAOB genes. Both of which can tax DAO’s function.
Source: Opus23
How can this information be useful?
For this woman supporting the function of HNMT and MAOB can help with histamine symptoms. For HNMT methylation support as well Salacia Oblonga (Oda, Y et al., 2015) can be used while for MAOB vit B2.
Source: Opus23
This Nutrigenomics analysis would not be possible without access to Opus23 analytics.
References
Breunig, E., Michel, K., Zeller, F., Seidl, S., Weyhern, C.W.H.V. and Schemann, M., 2007. Histamine excites neurones in the human submucous plexus through activation of H1, H2, H3 and H4 receptors. The Journal of physiology, 583(2), pp.731-742.
Casale, T. B., Onder, R. F., Berkowitz, R. B., & Korenblat, P. E. (2018). Nasal Carbon Dioxide Used As Needed in the Symptomatic Treatment of Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis. The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology: In Practice, 6(1), 183-189.
Hemilä, H., 2014. The effect of vitamin C on bronchoconstriction and respiratory symptoms caused by exercise: a review and statistical analysis. Allergy, Asthma & Clinical Immunology, 10(1), p.58.
Hollis, T.M., Kern, J.A., Enea, N.A. and Cosgarea, A.J., 1985. Changes in plasma histamine concentration in the streptozotocin-diabetic rat. Experimental and molecular pathology, 43(1), pp.90-96.
Kuefner, M.A., Schwelberger, H.G., Weidenhiller, M., Hahn, E.G. and Raithel, M., 2004. Both catabolic pathways of histamine via histamine-N-methyltransferase and diamine oxidase are diminished in the colonic mucosa of patients with food allergy. Inflammation Research, 53, pp.S31-S32.
Malmlöf, K., Zaragoza, F., Golozoubova, V., Refsgaard, H.H.F., Cremers, T., Raun, K., Wulff, B.S., Johansen, P.B., Westerink, B. and Rimvall, K., 2005. Influence of a selective histamine H3 receptor antagonist on hypothalamic neural activity, food intake and body weight. International journal of obesity, 29(12), pp.1402-1412.
Manzotti, G., Breda, D., Di Gioacchino, M. and Burastero, S.E., 2015. Serum diamine oxidase activity in patients with histamine intolerance. International journal of immunopathology and pharmacology, p.0394632015617170.
Maintz, L. and Novak, N., 2007. Histamine and histamine intolerance. The American journal of clinical nutrition, 85(5), pp.1185-1196.
Nakamura, T., Yoshikawa, T., Noguchi, N., Sugawara, A., Kasajima, A., Sasano, H. and Yanai, K., 2014. The expression and function of histamine H3 receptors in pancreatic beta cells. British journal of pharmacology, 171(1), pp.171-185.
Nakamura, T., Yoshikawa, T., Naganuma, F., Mohsen, A., Iida, T., Miura, Y., Sugawara, A. and Yanai, K., 2015. Role of histamine H 3 receptor in glucagon-secreting αTC1. 6 cells. FEBS open bio, 5, pp.36-41.
Oda, Y., Ueda, F., Utsuyama, M., Kamei, A., Kakinuma, C., Abe, K. and Hirokawa, K., 2015. Improvement in Human Immune Function with Changes in Intestinal Microbiota by Salacia reticulata Extract Ingestion: A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial. PloS one, 10(12), p.e0142909.
Pini, A., Obara, I., Battell, E., Chazot, P.L. and Rosa, A.C., 2016. Histamine in diabetes: is it time to reconsider?. Pharmacological research, 111, pp.316-324.
Strider, J. W., Masterson, C. G., & Durham, P. L. (2011). Treatment of mast cells with carbon dioxide suppresses degranulation via a novel mechanism involving repression of increased intracellular calcium levels. Allergy, 66(3), 341-350.
by Anastasis
Detox
Fertility
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Mental health
Methylation
Nutrigenomics
Dysbiosis
Histamine
mental health
methylation
1st February 2017
What gives vegetarians Iron?
#
Foods
Iron (mg per 100gr)
Vegan
Legumes
Nuts / Seeds
Spirulina (seaweed) 28 X
Agar (seawed) 21 X
Sesame seeds 15 X X
Squash/ Pumpking seeds 15 X X
Mothbeans 11 X X
White beans 10 X X
Tofu 10 X X
Soy beans 9 X X
Sun dried tomatoes 9 X
Egg whole 7
Lentils 6.6 X X
Kidney beans 5.2 X X
Egg yolk 5
Parmesan cheese 5
Swiss Chard 4.5 X
Black eye peas 4 X X
Sunflower seeds 4 X X
Click on the title of a column to rank results accordingly. Source: SelfNutritionData
There are 2 forms of Iron available in food. The one found in animal products is more readily absorbed which is why vegetarians need to keep an eye on their Iron levels. Been a vegetarian though doesn’t mean necessarily low Iron levels. One needs to test prior to supplementing cause excess iron intake can lead to: i. lower absorption of other minerals (as they commit with each other) ii. accumulation to toxic levels.
1. What’s the best type of Iron?
Heme Iron is the most readily absorbed form of Iron, and it’s found in shellfish, red meat, poultry and fish. On average, we absorb between 15-33% of the heme Iron we consume (Insel M et al., 2003).
Nonheme Iron is found in plant foods, as well as in eggs, milk and meat and is less easily absorbed. Many vegetarian sources of Iron often have phytates, which bind to Iron and carry it through the digestive track unabsorbed. As a result, the foods with high Iron content aren’t necessarily the best sources. By weight, soybeans have roughly twice the Iron of beef. But only 7% of the Iron in soybeans is absorbed. Spinach is also high in Iron, but less than 2% of the iron in cooked spinach is absorbed (Scrimshaw NS., 1991).
2. How to improve Iron absorption?
Step 1 : IMPROVE DIGESTIVE HEALTH
I cannot emphasise that enough. Iron is absorbed in the intestines, yet it’s bioavailability depends on adequate levels of hydrochloric acid (HCl) in the stomach. If as a vegetarian you suspect low production of HCl it might be worth supporting that (ie with apple cider vinegar) prior to supplementing.
Step 2: EAT EGGS
This might not be an option for vegans but as a vegetarian with low Iron you just cannot be casual about eating eggs. While certain cheeses also have Iron the amount is significantly lower and less bioavailable.
Step 3: SUPPLEMENT & RE-TEST
Good forms of Iron supplementation will include vitamin C (Fidler MC et al., 2004) or Citric Acid (Hallberg L and Rossander L. 1984) which have been shown to increase Iron absorption. It is worth making 3 points here:
1. The fact you have a deficiency today doesn’t mean you will live with it for the rest of your life. Retest.
2. Do not try to increase your Iron levels only through food. Most people find out they are deficient when there is a REAL deficiency. Give yourself the support it needs and on the long run rebalance your diet so that you do not depend on supplements.
3. There are certain foods that have been shown to inhibit Iron absorption. While I will list them bellow I do NOT advocate people to get off them (at least not for more than a few months). The reason behind is simple: Each food is more than each sub-parts.
“If you eliminate foods from your diet, you have to play the health game with less cards.”
It backfires 9 times out of 10 causing often food intolerances. For the shake of completion though here are the nutrients that can inhibit Iron absorption:
polyphenols such as tannins (coffee, tea)
oxalic acid (spinach, chad, berries, chocolate)
phytates (grains, legumes)
phosvitin(egg yolks)
other minerals
Using a good form of supplementation cannot be overlooked. Administration of ascorbic acid was shown to overcome the negative effects of Iron inhibitors (Hurrell, R. and Egli, I., 2010).
3. Caloric restriction & Iron status.
While adequate intake of Iron is a good idea when someone is deficient, if the focus of any dietary change is to amend a single imbalance there is a high risk of saving the tree and losing the forest. In my opinion a significant element of any diet should be fasting or caloric restriction (CR).
Studies in rhesus monkeys (Kastman E et al., 2010) & rats (Xu J et al., 2008) have shown that CR (of 40%) not only can help maintain a healthy Iron status but also prevent the negative effects of Iron accumulation. Positive was also shown to be the correlation between Iron status in CR rats and strength (Xu J et al., 2008).
4. Can Iron be toxic?
Yes. Uptake of heme Iron is mostly independent of bodily Iron levels (Hagemeier J et al., 2015). Iron can contribute to oxidative tissue damage, cell death (Dixon SJ and Stockwell BR, 2014) and inflammation in the microglia which has been associated with Multiple Sclerosis (Williams R et al., 2012).
So more is not better.
5. Differences in Iron metabolism between men and women.
A study conducted among 129 healthy women and 61 healthy men indicated differences in the impact diet has in the brain’s Iron levels (Jesper H et al., 2015) among women and men. The reason was hypothesized to be sex hormones and the fact that women lose systematic iron through menstruation and childbirth.
References
Dixon, S.J. and Stockwell, B.R., 2014. The role of iron and reactive oxygen species in cell death. Nature chemical biology, 10(1), pp.9-17.
Fidler MC, Davidsson L, Zeder C, and Hurrell RF. 2004. Erythorbic acid is a potent enhancer of nonheme-iron absorption. Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 Jan;79(1):99-102.
Hallberg L and Rossander L. 1984. Improvement of iron nutrition in developing countries: comparison of adding meat, soy protein, ascorbic acid, citric acid, and ferrous sulfate on iron absorption from a simple Latin American-type of meal. Am J Clin Nutr 39:577–83.
Hagemeier, J., Tong, O., Dwyer, M.G., Schweser, F., Ramanathan, M. and Zivadinov, R., 2015. Effects of diet on brain iron levels among healthy individuals: an MRI pilot study. Neurobiology of aging, 36(4), pp.1678-1685.
Hurrell, R. and Egli, I., 2010. Iron bioavailability and dietary reference values. The American journal of clinical nutrition, 91(5), pp.1461S-1467S.
Insel, PM, Turner RE, and Ross D. 2003. Nutrition. 3rd edition. Jones and Bartlett. Scrimshaw NS. 1991. Iron deficiency. Sci Am. 265(4):46-52.
Kastman, E.K., Willette, A.A., Coe, C.L., Bendlin, B.B., Kosmatka, K.J., McLaren, D.G., Xu, G., Canu, E., Field, A.S., Alexander, A.L. and Voytko, M.L., 2010. A calorie-restricted diet decreases brain iron accumulation and preserves motor performance in old rhesus monkeys. Journal of Neuroscience, 30(23), pp.7940-7947.
Jesper Hagemeier, Olivia Tong, Michael G. Dwyer, Ferdinand Schweser, Murali Ramanthan, Robert Zivadinov, “Effects of diet on brain iron levels among healthy individuals: an MRI pilot study,” Neurobiology of Aging, Available online 17 January 2015, ISSN 0197-4580, dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.01.010.
Williams, R., Buchheit, C.L., Berman, N.E. and LeVine, S.M., 2012. Pathogenic implications of iron accumulation in multiple sclerosis. Journal of neurochemistry, 120(1), pp.7-25.
Xu, J., Knutson, M.D., Carter, C.S. and Leeuwenburgh, C., 2008. Iron accumulation with age, oxidative stress and functional decline. PloS one, 3(8), p.e2865.
by Anastasis
Fertility
Gut health
Mental health
Iron
29th February 2016
The ROSE Method
Do you care about your body composition?
Although I cannot see your face I can guess your response: “WHAT A STUPID QUESTION? OF COURSE I…” and some of you will say “DO” and some will say “DON’T”. For me to ask this question and have developed a method for it I obviously consider it a significant one. Not because I think that everyone needs to look like the cover model of a fashion magazine but because body composition is a great indication of health.
Science has shown body composition to be linked with the development of certain diseases (cancer been one [1]) but not others (like inflammatory bowel disease [2]). So if you are health conscious you should be only partly concerned if you have low muscle tone or excess fat, correct?
OK I suggest we keep it real. Low muscle tone and/or excess body fat is as bad for health as it is for self esteem. The view of a person with a low % of muscle mass and high % of body fat is almost the opposite of a sick one!
What can you do to improve your body composition then?
Click for more?
by Anastasis
Detox
Gut health
Hormone imbalance
Weight management
blood sugar regulation
body composition
Cancer
exercise
IBD
pathogen elimination
Posts navigation
Older posts
Newsletter
First Name:
Email address:
Country: United Kingdom United States Other Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada China Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Egypt Finland France Germany Greece Hong Kong Iceland Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Japan Lebanon Monaco Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Saudi Arabia Singapore Sweden Switzerland
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Past Newsletters
Nov 18 Wim Hof Method vs Oxygen Advantage
Oct 18 How good are you in B… reathing?
Sep 18 Fasting : The new-old diet
Terms of website use: www.thenutritionistyogi.com/tou
Built with Make. Your friendly WordPress page builder theme.
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
SoundCloud
Twitter
LinkedIn
RSS
Email
You got it. I will send you the PDF.
You will also get access to a member’s only page with ALL future bonus content.
First Name
Email address
Leave this field empty if you're human:
X