Infected Eczema: Pictures, Treatment, Removal, and More
Newsletter
How to Identify, Treat, and Prevent Infected Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on September 19, 2018 — Written by Kristeen Cherney
Pictures
Symptoms
See a doctor
Eczema and staph
Causes
Treatments
Natural treatments
Other complications
Outlook
Prevention
What is infected eczema?
Eczema (atopic dermatitis) is a type of skin inflammation that can cause a variety of symptoms, from an itchy red rash to patchy sores.
Open sores — especially from scratching eczema — can allow viruses, bacteria, and fungi to enter the skin. This can result in an infection.
Infected eczema is common in people who have frequent sores and open wounds associated with their condition. However, not all people with eczema will experience infections.
It’s important to learn the signs of infected eczema so you can seek the appropriate treatment. Sometimes the infection warrants treatment from a doctor to prevent further complications.
Pictures of infected eczema
How to identify infected eczema
Signs of eczema that’s infected can include:
severe itchiness
new burning sensations
blistered skin
fluid drainage
white or yellow pus
A severe infection can also cause fever and chills, as well as other symptoms that mimic the flu.
When to see your doctor
You should always see a doctor if you have symptoms of a skin infection.
At your appointment, they’ll look at your skin and may take a sample to determine the type of infection you have. You’ll then be prescribed the proper type of medication based on the source of your infection.
Your doctor can also offer treatments for the underlying eczema flare that’s contributed to the infection. They’ll discuss prescription methods such as steroids for inflammation, as well as lifestyle measures.
Eczema and staph infection
Staphylococcus is a type of bacteria that lives on your skin, where it doesn’t usually cause an infection.
Staph infections can occur when bacteria enter wounds from eczema or broken skin within your rashes.
Having eczema doesn’t mean you’ll automatically get a staph infection, but it does make you more prone to bacterial skin infections. So it’s important to be aware of the signs of staph infection in case the bacteria enter broken skin.
Symptoms include:
increased redness
raised skin that looks like boils
clear to yellow-colored drainage
increased itchiness
pain at the site of the infection
Other causes of infected eczema
An infection from Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, or other bacteria is just one cause of infected eczema. Others include fungal infections (especially from Candida) and viral infections.
People with eczema may be more prone to herpes simplex viruses, so it’s important to avoid others who have cold sores.
Eczema itself isn’t contagious, and most infected cases usually aren’t either. However, some of the causes of the infection may be contagious to people who have eczema, such as exposure to herpes simplex.
If you have eczema with frequent broken skin, it’s important to take care around others who have herpes simplex. The telltale sign of this is usually a cold sore.
How infected eczema is treated
The way you treat infected eczema depends on whether it was caused by a virus, bacteria, or fungi. Viral infections may be treated with antiviral medications or allowed to heal themselves.
Antibiotics are used in bacterial infections. Mild bacterial-infected eczema is treated with a topical antibiotic first. A steroid cream may also be used to reduce inflammation.
Oral antibiotics are reserved for more severe cases of infected eczema. They’re also used for infections that have spread to other parts of your body.
A fungal infection may also be treated with steroids. It’s treated with topical antifungal creams as well.
Natural treatments for infected eczema
Some people prefer using natural treatments in addition to prescription medications. This is due to the long-term side effects of steroids, such as thinning skin.
You may consider the following natural treatments, as well as the pros and cons of each:
herbal supplements for eczema flares, such as primrose oil
essential oils, such as borage, evening primrose, and tea tree
probiotics, to offset gastrointestinal side effects from antibiotics
natural soaps and creams with emollients, to decrease skin inflammation
Be aware that natural treatments for eczema and skin infections haven’t been widely studied for safety or efficacy.
Make sure you discuss all these options with your doctor first before trying them out.
Home treatments are another option for infected eczema, but they’re often used in conjunction with other therapies. Talk to your doctor about the following home remedies:
oatmeal baths
Epsom salt baths
emollient wraps (which may also contain calamine lotion or coal tar)
Other possible complications
Infected eczema may lead to the following complications:
worsening eczema symptoms
longer healing times for eczema because the infection must be treated first before the eczema flare can heal
resistance to topical steroids after frequent use
growth problems in children from topical steroids
Other complications require immediate medical care. A staph infection that has progressed can cause blood poisoning.
You may need to go to the hospital if you start experiencing:
fever
chills
low energy
excessive fatigue
Infants and young children are the most vulnerable to blood poisoning from bacterial infections, so monitor these age groups carefully.
The outlook for infected eczema
The outlook for infected eczema depends on the severity and type of infection. You should notice an improvement in your symptoms several days after starting treatment.
Treating the infection doesn’t mean you won’t be at risk for future bouts of infected eczema.
Take preventive measures so you can stop eczema flares from getting infected. Managing eczema flare-ups can also go a long way in preventing related infections.
Tips for prevention
During an eczema flare, it’s important to keep your skin as healthy as possible to avoid infection.
Avoid scratching your skin as best as you can. Scratching breaks your skin and increases your risk of infection.
It’s also important to keep the rashes moisturized for extra protection.
Topical immunomodulators and oral steroids may help decrease inflammation. Your dermatologist may also suggest ultraviolet light therapy.
Antihistamines such as cetirizine (Zyrtec) or diphenhydramine (Benadryl) can help alleviate itching.
It can also help to identify possible eczema triggers and avoid them. Possibilities include:
certain foods you may be sensitive to, such as nuts and dairy products
pollen and other airborne allergens
animal dander
synthetic or itchy fabrics
fragrances and dyes, especially in soaps and other hygiene products
hormone fluctuations
heat
sweating
stress
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on September 19, 2018 — Written by Kristeen Cherney
related stories
8 Natural Remedies to Reduce Eczema Symptoms
How to Create an Eczema-Friendly Diet
Bleach Baths for Eczema
Scabies vs. Eczema
5 Options When Severe Eczema Stops Responding to Treatment
READ THIS NEXT
8 Natural Remedies to Reduce Eczema Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
If you live with eczema, you might be looking for home remedies for symptom relief. Check out these 8 natural eczema remedies to soothe your symptoms…
READ MORE
How to Create an Eczema-Friendly Diet
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Eczema is an inflammatory skin condition that can cause skin irritation, oozing blisters, and itchy rashes. It can also result in leathery skin…
READ MORE
Bleach Baths for Eczema
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
A bath is a common treatment for eczema because it can restore moisture to dry skin. Keep reading to find out if a bleach bath is effective for eczema.
READ MORE
Scabies vs. Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Do you have an itchy patch of skin and wonder if it's scabies or an eczema flare-up? The two conditions can look very much alike, but they are very…
READ MORE
5 Options When Severe Eczema Stops Responding to Treatment
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Sometimes, severe cases of eczema can stop responding to your current treatment. If this happens, you don't need to give up. There are several others…
READ MORE
7 Questions to Ask Your Dermatologist About Managing Severe Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
If you're living with severe eczema and finding it difficult to get under control, you might be wondering what else you can do. Here are several…
READ MORE
Diet and Severe Eczema: Can What You Eat Affect Your Symptoms?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
If you're having trouble getting your severe eczema under control, you may want to look into your diet. Find out how an undiagnosed food allergy and…
READ MORE
7 Essential Oils for Severe Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Severe eczema can be difficult to get under control. Certain essential oils have anti-inflammatory properties that can reduce irritation. Here are…
READ MORE
13 Severe Eczema Triggers and How to Avoid Them
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Becoming aware of what triggers your eczema is an important step to get your condition under control. Certain foods, products, and substances can lead…
READ MORE
Understanding and Treating Breast Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Eczema on the breast is characterized by itchiness and dry, cracked, or scaly skin under or between your breasts, on and around your nipple, and…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 120183 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582