Diffirent oils for psoriasis to hide the symptoms and reduce itching
PASI Score Training
Facebook
Twitter
GooglePlus
Rss
Psoriasis photos
FAQ
Consultation
Contacts
About Author
PASI Calculator
Do not worry, it's not that bad!
Effective oils for psoriasis desease
Most people don’t realize, but there are many oils for Psoriasis which can successfully treat this condition. Psoriasis can be a very uncomfortable and unpleasant skin condition. It is quite common and affects many people in almost every part of the world. Since symptoms of Psoriasis are clearly visible, people who suffer from this skin condition find it weird to go out in public or face other people.
Contents
1 Argan Oil
2 Evening Primrose Oil
3 Emu Oil
4 Fish Oil
5 Olive Oil
6 Coconut Oil
This behavior is mainly caused by low self esteem and confidence. It is worth mentioning that Psoriasis is non-contagious. However, it is usually mistaken to be contagious and therefore, other people look at patients with distaste. People suffering from this skin condition can consult medical professionals to discuss a course of treatment. Although Psoriasis is incurable, you can still choose from a lot of different options to fight the symptoms of this condition effectively.
Using oils for Psoriasis is one of the best courses of action you can take.
These simple solutions are inexpensive and effective for treating symptoms of Psoriasis. As mentioned earlier, Psoriasis primarily affects your skin. With help from studies and researches, skin specialists have been able to come up with products that can be used for treating associated skin problems like acne, eczema and so on. Essential oils for Psoriasis are considered to be the best kind of treatment you can use. Here are some oils that can be quite effective for Psoriasis.
Argan Oil
Pure Argan oil can be quite effective in managing symptoms of Psoriasis. Argan oil has anti-inflammatory properties. Since Psoriasis is an autoimmune disorder caused by inflammation, Argan oil can effectively treat its symptoms. Argan oil can effectively reduce the symptoms of this skin condition like redness, inflammation and itching. Pure Argan oil originates in Morocco. This is one of the oils for Psoriasis which is also rich in Vitamin E. Due to this, Argan oil can be quite effective for decreasing dryness and roughness in the skin. This can effectively deal with flaking and dryness of the skin.
These are some common symptoms associated with Psoriasis.
Upon repeated use, Argan oil can be one of the best things you can try for treating symptoms of Psoriasis.
Evening Primrose Oil
Evening Primrose oil has a very high concentration of gamma-linolenic acid. It is also known as GLA. Gamma-linolenic acid can provide some assistance to cut down various signs of aging. It can even help fix other issues with your skin. Most of these relate to atmospheric and climatic issues. Evening Primrose oil is one of the most effective oils for Psoriasis. In the last few years, many people have used this oil for effectively treating Psoriasis and other skin conditions like eczema. Evening Primrose oil can have a very soothing and calming effect on hormonal changes in your body. These days, Evening Primrose oil can be easily bought in the form of bottled oil, pills and mixed lotions. Soothing and calming effect of Evening Primrose oil not only works great for Psoriasis and eczema, but also proves to be effective for decreasing IBS, cholesterol levels and PMS relief.
Regular use of Evening Primrose oil can reduce itchiness, dryness and scaliness on your skin.
As mentioned earlier, Evening Primrose oil has soothing properties. These properties come from the presence of linoleic acid and gamma linoleic acids. This oil also contains natural ingredients which can replenish and rehydrate your skin.
Emu Oil
Emu oil is considered to be an essential tissue nutrient. This is one of the few oils for Psoriasis which help in normal’ growth of your skin cells. It even helps with over-riding your body’s alternate growth program which usually causes Lesional Psoriasis. Many users have reported a lot of relief from Emu Oil. However, there are some people who haven’t experienced any relief. With skin conditions, you can never predict the effectiveness of various products available in the market. It is important to understand that everybody reacts differently to different treatment options. Therefore, you need to try Emu oil on a temporary basis to figure out its effectiveness for treating your Psoriasis. It is worth mentioning that most of the consumer reports have been very positive.
Fish Oil
Scaling, itching and erythema are some of the most common symptoms of Psoriasis. Abnormal levels of metabolites of arachidonic acid (leukotrienes) are considered to be one of the most common reasons for progression and development of Psoriasis. Fish oil contains a high concentration of Eicosapentaenoic Acid or EPA. It can effectively minimize the severe effects of leukotrienes. In addition to this, fish oil also has anti inflammatory properties.
Olive Oil
Olive oil has emollient properties. If you rub olive oil on the affected area daily, it will keep your drying skin supple. Moreover, it will make your skin less prone to damage. Olive oil also has antioxidant properties which can lead to normal skin growth. In order to experience best results, you should take a warm shower before massaging Olive oil on your skin. Just keep rubbing for five minutes and don’t apply more than your skin can absorb.
Coconut Oil
Coconut oil can easily moisturize your skin when you apply it topically or incorporate it into your diet. Coconut oil for Psoriasis is one of the best course of treatments. In fact, most skin specialists consider Coconut oil Psoriasis as a perfect way to treat Psoriasis. Coconut oil is primarily made up of saturated fats. It is also rich in Lauric acid. It is believed that saturated fats should be avoided as it leads to elevated cholesterol levels. However, these saturated fats have a different base because of the molecular structure of coconut oil. Coconut oil helps your metabolic syndrome because it increases HDLs (good fat) and lowers LDLs (bad fat). Coconut oil for Psoriasis metabolises these fats to use them as energy and make your skin smoother. Although there are many different natural remedies and essential oils for Psoriasis, high quality cold pressed Coconut oil Psoriasis is the most effective course of action.
It can help with skin inflammation and act as a good moisturiser.
Interestingly, if you take Coconut oil as a supplement in your diet, you will feel more energetic. This can be quite important for people suffering from Psoriasis with a low self esteem and confidence.
Related posts:
Psoriasis of the liver desease
Is homeopathy for psoriasis effective?
An effective shampoo for psoriasis
Inverse Psoriasis – effective treatments
Subscribe to learn the latest techniques and treatments for psoriasis!
← Is Psoriasis Contagious? An effective shampoo for psoriasis →
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Name
Categories
Diets
Drugs
Food
Info
Internet Tips
Symptoms
Thinking
Treatment
Types
Recent Posts
Main principles of psoriasis treatment!
Psoriasis and environment – people and ecology
Physical condition and body condition for psoriasis
Food and drink for psoriasis treatment
Spiritual Life and Mental Health
Recent Comments
admin on Physical condition and body condition for psoriasis
Anshul Dubey on Physical condition and body condition for psoriasis
Jen on Causes and Treating Itch in Psoriasis
Stevebab on Plaque psoriasis treatment options
Duncan on Successful treatment of psoriasis by Pagano
In cooperation with
Information
Questions and suggestions: cooperation@psoriasisfreetips.com
Copying of content is allowed only with the active link to the source!
With support
Copyright © 1996-2013 PsoriasisFreeTips.com