Vitamin D improved asthma symptoms and reduced exacerbations - PulmCCM
All the best in pulmonary & critical care
Latest
Everything
Randomized Trials
Review Articles
Critical Care
ARDS
Asthma
Cardiovascular Disease
COPD
Chronic Critical Illness
Infectious Disease, Sepsis
Interstitial Lung Disease
GI and Nutrition
Interventional Pulmonology
Lung Cancer
Mechanical Ventilation
Neurology Critical Care
Pulmonary Embolism / DVT / VTE
Pulmonary Hypertension
Sleep, Obesity-related disease
Palliative Care
Quizzes
Reviews
Popular
Guidelines
Journal
About
Login
Weekend hospital admissions associated with increased risk of death FDA Approves Benralizumab for Severe Asthma
Vitamin D improved asthma symptoms and reduced exacerbations
Randomized Controlled Trials, Review Articles, Asthma, GI and Nutrition Add a Comment
Jan 172018
Multiple randomized trials have suggested that vitamin D supplementation might improve asthma control and reduce severity of asthma attacks. A new meta-analysis bolsters that hypothesis, and may encourage more physicians and people with asthma to consider vitamin D supplements for low vitamin D levels.
In a study in Lancet Respiratory Medicine, authors analyzed the experience of 955 asthma patients previously enrolled in seven randomized controlled trials testing vitamin D versus placebo.
Supplementation with vitamin D was associated with a 50% reduction in asthma attacks severe enough to require hospitalization or emergency department visit (3% vs 6%), compared to placebo. Vitamin D use was also associated with a 30% reduction in asthma attacks necessitating use of systemic corticosteroids.
Importantly, patients with low baseline vitamin D levels (<25 nmol/L serum 25(OH)D ) experienced statistically significant benefits, while those with higher baseline levels did not--suggesting vitamin D supplementation might be more beneficial in patients with asthma and low baseline vitamin D levels.
The treatment effect was strong enough to be seen in the overall cohort, with an adjusted incidence ratio of 0.74 for a severe asthma exacerbation among patients taking vitamin D (irrespective of baseline vitamin D level).
The study echoes a previous finding in a 2016 Cochrane meta-analysis that concluded supplementing vitamin D resulted in a 37% reduction in asthma exacerbations requiring systemic corticosteroids. That analysis could not stratify patients by baseline vitamin D levels, however.
The meta-analysis was underpowered to definitively conclude that patients with lower vitamin D levels experienced a reduction in asthma exacerbation severity. Editorialists called for a large, adequately powered randomized trial to answer the question:
Certainly there is a case to answer and definitive well powered randomized placebo controlled trials need to be done as a priority because the magnitude of the reduction in risk of severe exacerbations with vitamin D reported in this meta-analysis is substantial.
Given the relative benignity of vitamin D supplementation, and the magnitude of a potential benefit, the analysis will likely lead many physicians to test vitamin D levels in patients with a history of severe asthma exacerbations, and to advise supplementation in patients with low levels.
Sources: Lancet Resp Med, Cochrane Reviews
Take Our Poll
Get our weekly email update, and explore our library of practice updates and review articles.
PulmCCM is an independent publication not affiliated with or endorsed by any organization, society or journal referenced on the website. (Terms of Use | Privacy Policy)
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Posted by PulmCCM
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
0 Comments
Vitamin D improved asthma symptoms and reduced exacerbations
Weekend hospital admissions associated with increased risk of death FDA Approves Benralizumab for Severe Asthma
Follow @PulmCCM
Subscribe to our free weekly email with the latest in pulmonary & critical care.
Most Viewed This Month
Fleischner Society Guideline Update 2017: Management of Solid Pulmonary Nodules
Supraventricular Tachycardia (SVT): Initial Diagnosis and Treatment (Review)
Oral steroids don’t improve cough due to colds (but are prescribed anyway)
From the Surviving Sepsis Guidelines: Criteria for diagnosis of sepsis
ICU Physiology in 1000 Words: The Driving Power & Ventilator-Induced Lung Injury
Former Vanderbilt nurse arrested, charged with homicide for medication error
Management of Ground Glass and Subsolid Pulmonary Nodules: Review
More than 90% of sepsis deaths are unpreventable, study concludes
Should We Stop Trending Lactate in Septic Shock? ANDROMEDA-SHOCK Published
ICU stethoscopes are covered in bacteria, and you’re cleaning yours wrong
Login to PulmCCM
Username or Email:
Password:
signup now | forgot password?
Remember Me
Most Viewed All Time
New 2017 GOLD Guidelines for COPD Released
How dangerous are ground glass nodules over time?
Vasopressors for septic shock
Mechanical Ventilation in ARDS: Research Update
Beta blockers safe for most patients with asthma or COPD?
Interpreting high troponin: It’s not just for cardiologists anymore (Review)
IDSA Guidelines 2016: HAP, VAP & It’s the End of HCAP as We Know It (And I Feel Fine)
New GOLD guidelines: Better than the old GOLD
Fleischner Society Guideline Update 2017: Management of Solid Pulmonary Nodules
Diaphragmatic dysfunction and respiratory illness (Review)
TOPICS
Randomized Controlled Trials (297)
Review Articles (344)
ARDS and ALI (71)
Asthma (71)
Cardiovascular Disease (139)
Chronic Critical Illness (26)
COPD (125)
Critical Care (450)
Cystic Fibrosis (15)
Diffuse Lung Disease & Interstitial Lung Disease (53)
GI and Nutrition (46)
Infectious Disease and Sepsis (234)
Interventional Pulmonology (60)
Lung Cancer (90)
Lung Transplantation (24)
Mechanical Ventilation (151)
Neurology Critical Care (28)
Pleural Disease (22)
Policy, Ethics, Education (233)
Pulmonary Embolism / DVT / VTE (87)
Pulmonary Hypertension (33)
Radiology & Imaging (88)
Sleep, Obesity-related disease (66)
Uncategorized (16)
Clinical Resources (16)
Palliative Care (10)
Clinic and Consults (3)
Quiz (4)
© 2011-2019 PulmCCM Inc.
Use of PulmCCM indicates acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Contact Us Suffusion theme by Sayontan Sinha
Get PulmCCM’s Weekly Email Update
Stay up-to-date in pulmonary and critical care. No spam.
Email Address	 First Name	 Middle Initial	 Last Name	 ZIP/Postal	 Profession	 Physician	Physician Assistant	Nurse Practitioner	Medical Student	Nurse	Pharmacist	Health Administrator	Other	 Specialty	 Pulmonary/Critical Care	Emergency Medicine	Anesthesiology	Internal Medicine	Surgery	Cardiology	Nephrology	Critical Care	Other
Submit
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
No Thanks
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.