Can Coconut Oil Really Fade Scars?
Newsletter
Can You Use Coconut Oil to Help Treat Scarring?
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT on March 27, 2018 — Written by Kristeen Cherney
Purported benefits
Research
How to use
Side effects and risks
Products
See your dermatologist
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is coconut oil?
Coconut oil is more than just a healthy cooking alternative — its moisturizing properties can be great for your hair and skin. Some of its active ingredients are even thought to help minimize scars. Although more research is needed, the evidence is promising.
Read on to learn how it may affect different types of scars, how to use it at home, possible side effects, and more.
What are the purported benefits?
Most of the research on coconut oil has to do with wounds and dermatitis (eczema). In both cases, coconut oil can help by acting as a thick, moisturizing barrier as the skin heals. Such effects could, in theory, help with early scar treatment.
Coconut oil is also said to help boost collagen production. Not only could increasing collagen in the skin help with fine lines, it could also help minimize scarring by binding new skin tissue together.
Other purported benefits include making your skin tone more even, which could help with scar-related redness and other hyperpigmentation.
Although marketers often make these claims about coconut oil, more research is needed to actually back the claims up.
Much of these perceived benefits have to do with its naturally high vitamin E content. It’s still unclear whether coconut oil itself — and not its individual components — could definitively help with scarring.
What the research says about coconut oil’s effects on scarring
Scars are complex, and their treatment is perhaps even more so. If you’re considering coconut oil as an alternative treatment, it’s important to know that research about its effects is mixed at best. In some cases, the oil could cause more harm than good.
You should always talk to your doctor before using an alternative remedy. They can go over any potential side effects and other interactions.
Acne scars
Acne scars can develop after a breakout. This happens from a breakdown of the collagen fibers surrounding the pore. Ice pick, boxcar, and rolling scars are common types. You might be considering coconut oil to boost collagen and repair the skin. Some people even try the oil to get rid of dark spots left over from acne.
One key ingredient in coconut oil is the antioxidant vitamin E. However, research of its use for scars and other dermatologic conditions was considered inconclusive. This was based on a of 65 years’ worth of research done on vitamin E, not coconut oil.
Vitamin E application is a popular practice, but there still needs to be more research to prove it makes a difference.
Lauric acid, another coconut oil ingredient, has for its potential in reducing Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes)bacteria in certain forms of inflammatory acne. This could help prevent future acne lesions and the scars that often come with them.
Stretch marks
Stretch marks occur when the middle layer of skin (dermis) stretches at a rapid rate. This can be a result of pregnancy or other weight gain. Once stretch marks occur, they’re difficult to get rid of.
Stretch marks can naturally fade in color over time, thereby becoming less noticeable. Still, you might be wondering if coconut oil can help speed up these effects.
A of studies on various oils for stretch mark treatment found no real effect on these types of scars. More research is needed to see if coconut oil specifically offers any benefit for stretch marks.
Atrophic scars
Atrophic scars consist of depressed marks in the skin. Some of these can occur from acne in the form of icepick or boxcar scars. Others can occur from a previous chickenpox virus or injuries. These scars can be oval or round-shaped, with or without hyperpigmentation.
One theory is that coconut oil can produce more collagen in the skin. If you’re dealing with atrophic scars, it might seem that increased collagen could even out the depression marks in your skin. Research is needed to support this theory.
Surgical scars
Any time your skin is wounded, scar tissue forms while new permanent tissues are being generated. Surgery is a more extreme example. Some people use vitamin E products immediately after a surgery wound has healed to help prevent scarring.
The research on coconut oil for surgical scars is mixed. One found that vitamin E worsened surgical scar appearance on human participants.
These results differed from a that observed improvements from wounds with coconut oil. Researchers in this study suggest that the oil lead to increased collagen production, which helped the skin tissues heal quicker.
Hypertrophic scars
Hypertrophic scars are those that have the most collagen losses. As your wound heals, a larger amount of scar tissue forms in a thick area. Although coconut oil is said to help with collagen losses, on vitamin E for hypertrophic scars is mixed.
Keloid scars
On the flip side, another study on post-surgery scarring found that vitamin E helped prevent keloids from developing after surgery. Keloids are types of hypertrophic scars that look like masses of raised tissues in a given area.
Given the mixed results between hypertrophic scarring and keloids from vitamin E, more research needs to be done on coconut oil.
Contracture scars
Contracture scars are scars left over from traumatic injuries. Not only might you be dealing with the scar itself, but the area can be painful, too. Due to their severity, scar contractures are usually treated with skin grafting and other surgical procedures.
To prevent scarring from a traumatic injury, you might be considering coconut oil. Reports of found that vitamin E had no noticeable effect on contracture scars. More research is needed to confirm or update this finding.
How to use it
Coconut oil is available over the counter. You can buy it in pure form or as an ingredient within a product. For best results, use the product at least twice a day, morning and night. Follow all product instructions for correct dosage.
But before you get started, you’ll want to do a patch test first. This helps to determine whether you’re sensitive to the oil.
To do this:
Apply a small amount on your forearm.
Cover the area with a bandage.
If you don’t experience any irritation or inflammation within 24 hours, the product is likely safe to use elsewhere.
No matter which form of coconut oil you choose, you need to . Not only does this prevent sun damage, but it can also prevent your scars from darkening and becoming more noticeable.
Possible side effects and risks
Like any skin care ingredient, coconut oil can cause adverse reactions in some users. Performing a skin patch test is the only way to determine how your skin will react to the oil.
You may be to experience contact dermatitis if you apply the oil to surgical scars.
You shouldn’t use coconut oil if you’re allergic to coconut.
Products to try
When buying coconut oil, you have a few options. First, you can try pure coconut oil, such as this multipurpose product from Viva Naturals.
You can also try general skincare products containing coconut oil, such as Advanced Clinicals Coconut Oil Cream.
Or you can opt for products designed specifically for scar treatment. Popular options on Amazon include:
Body Merry Stretch Marks and Scars Defense Oil
Mederma Quick Dry Oil
Wild Thera Scar Fade Balm
No matter which product you choose, always do a patch test first.
When to see your dermatologist
Although coconut oil is widely considered a natural product, its effects can be just as powerful as regular cosmetics.
It’s wise to check with your dermatologist before using any product to treat your scars at home. They may be able to recommend more effective alternatives.
If you do opt for coconut oil, watch for any unusual symptoms. You should also discontinue use if you experience any irritation and see your doctor if your symptoms persist.
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT on March 27, 2018 — Written by Kristeen Cherney
related stories
Dermarolling Is the Prickly Time Machine That’ll Erase Your Scars and Stretch Marks
Will Vitamin E Oil Help Fade Scars?
What Treatment Options Are Available for Facial Scars?
How to Get Rid of Pockmarks
5 Natural Products to Help Get Rid of Acne Scars
READ THIS NEXT
Dermarolling Is the Prickly Time Machine That’ll Erase Your Scars and Stretch Marks
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
Dermarolling, aka microneedling, is the art of erasing unwanted acne scars, wrinkles, and stretch marks. See how to do it right, to avoid bad side…
READ MORE
Will Vitamin E Oil Help Fade Scars?
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
There's a popular belief that rubbing vitamin E oil onto your acne scars can help them heal quickly, and reduce their visibility. Ointments and creams…
READ MORE
What Treatment Options Are Available for Facial Scars?
Medically reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, College of Medicine
Birthmarks, freckles, and moles are among the individual characteristics that make us unique, like the wood grain in a piece of burled walnut.
READ MORE
How to Get Rid of Pockmarks
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
Whether your pockmarks were caused by acne, chickenpox, or another skin condition, the resulting scar can be difficult to fade. Here's what works.
READ MORE
5 Natural Products to Help Get Rid of Acne Scars
Medically reviewed by Peggy Pletcher, MS, RD, LD, CDE
Skip the expensive creams and lotions. Cheaper, natural products have just as strong a record for treating acne scars.
READ MORE
How to Remove Scars on Legs
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
Here are simple tips to reduce the appearance of scars. Whether you want to know how to get rid of scars on your legs or other areas, here's what to…
READ MORE
Laser Treatment for Scars: What You Should Know
Medically reviewed by Catherine Hannan, MD
Laser therapy uses strong beams of light to treat damaged areas on the body. It can do many things, including improve the appearance of scars. Laser…
READ MORE
How to Get Rid of Old Scars: Top 10 Remedies
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
Learn the top 10 home remedies for getting rid of old scars. Do you have a scar that makes you feel self-conscious? You're not alone. In this article…
READ MORE
Can Tea Tree Oil Get Rid of Scars?
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Tea tree oil can do a lot of things, but can it remove scars? We'll take a look at the research into tea tree oil and wounds, and tell you what tea…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 144975 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877