Research suggests that music therapy can improve depression levels - Therapy Directory
-
=X
Welcome Log out Are you a therapist? Join us Log in
Find a therapist
Home
Therapies
FAQs
Articles
Local events
Your stories
Welcome
Members areaLog out Log inJoin us
Bookmarks (-)
Home>
Articles>
Research suggests that music therapy can improve depression levels
Research suggests that music therapy can improve depression levels
by Emma Hilton, writer at Therapy Directory
August 26th, 2011
Facebook Twitter LinkedIn
Bookmark
August 26th, 2011
Facebook Twitter LinkedIn
Bookmark
Researchers in Finland have claimed that music therapy could be used to improve the treatment of people suffering from depression, in the short-term at least. A study of 79 individuals showed a greater improvement in those patients being treated with music therapy, compared to those receiving standard therapy.
The findings have been published in the British Journal of Psychiatry, with experts claiming that music might be able to engage people in ways that words cannot.
Music therapy is often employed to help children who find it difficult to communicate and is featured as a tool used by the NHS. Being given the opportunity to play an instrument or sing with a trained music therapist is supposed to allow children to express themselves in a way they had not before.
A specialist in mental health services at Imperial College London, Dr Mike Crawford, said, “Music-making is social, pleasurable and meaningful. It has been argued that music making engages people in ways that words may simply not be able to.”
In the study carried out by the team from Finland, all the patients being treated for depression received the standard practice of counselling and suitable medication. Of the 79 participants, 33 of them were also given twenty sessions of music therapy, which involved things like drumming and singing.
After the first three months, the patients that had been having the meetings with a trained music therapist began to show a greater improvement in scores of depression and anxiety, compared to those that had not. However, over the course of six months, that was no statistical improvement.
Professor Christian Gold, from the University of Jyvaskyla, said, “Our trial has shown that music therapy, when added to standard care helps people to improve their levels of depression and anxiety. Music therapy has specific qualities that allow people to express themselves and interact in a non-verbal way, even in situations when they cannot find the words to describe their inner experiences.”
View the original BBC News article here.
Facebook Twitter LinkedIn
Other articles by Emma
Natural remedies to fight off the common cold
Practice mindfulness in just 10 minutes a day
Bikram yoga – a beginner’s guide
Welsh pilot project helps 153 people back to work A fall in mammogram rates could be linked to a drop in hormone therapy use
Search for a therapist near you
advanced search
print this page
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Follow @Therapy_UK
Have you ever stopped to consider how much you spend on health and wellness? (via @happifulhq) https://t.co/XuQCCn1F4E
Get involved
More information
Home
About
Legal terms
Cookie policy
Privacy notice
Browse by region
Links
Press Centre
Site help
Company Details
Therapy Directory, Building 3
Riverside Way, Camberley
Surrey, GU15 3YL
Membership Services Team: 0333 325 2505 *
Contact us
* Calls to 03 numbers cost the same as calling an 01 or 02 number and count towards any inclusive minutes in the same way as 01 and 02 calls.
Copyright © 2019
Site by Memiah Limited
Healthy ideas that change the world
Get our free monthly e-magazine straight to your inbox
Find out more at happiful.com
Before using our site, please take a moment to review our Privacy Notice and Cookies policy. By continuing to use this site we'll assume you agree to both.
Ok