● 維生素B9 (葉酸) 缺乏- Folic Acid - ★ 優活 健康網 ★ Living Well Website
★ 優活 健康網 ★ Living Well Website
首頁
● ER
● 台灣 美食悠遊網
● 台灣旅遊 導覽網
● 生活智慧網
● 台灣 消費者網站
★ 中國 旅遊網
美食
美食
● 火鍋美食 介紹 - Hot Pot
● (麵食)- 牛肉麵、炸醬麵、拉麵 - Noodles
● 豆腐類 美食 - Tofu Dishes
● 香菇類 美食菜餚 - Mushroom
● 馬鈴薯、土豆菜餚 - Potatoes
● 潤餅卷, 春捲- Popiah, Egg Roll
● 台灣便當飲食, 台鐵便當- Boxed meal
● 台灣 滷肉飯 Braised Pork Rice
● 台灣料理- 油飯、糯米 Glutinous oil rice
● 日式料理- 蛋包飯, 關東煮 Japan cuisine
● 日式料理 - 丼物 (蓋澆飯) (Donburi)
購物
▼ 商圈 ===> >
● 台北市 西門町 商圈 Ximending B. District
● 台北市 信義商圈- Taipei 101 Shopping
● 台北市 五分埔商圈- Wufenpu Garment
● 台北 重慶南路書店街 Taipei Bookstores
● 台北光華商場- 數位新天地- Guanghua
▼ 經濟 ===> >
● 懂程式，會美編，在台新金只值21K
● 師大夜市餐廳經營 - 我賺的錢 都給房東了
● 越勞中國月賺900美元,偷渡來台只領22K
● 美國醫療費用世界最昂貴- US medi-cost
● 餐廳我賺的 都給房東了- High Rent
● 經營
● 台北101 購物中心-Taipei 101 shopping
● 團購 -- Group Buying
● 蘋果,宏達電,三星, 手機大戰- htc Apple
● 台灣團購網騙很大 Groupon、Gomaji
● 中國大陸團購分析-Group buying in China
飲食
● 糖份 - Sugar : The Bitter Truth
● 好吃美食與健康危險- 警訊 - Food risk
● 常吃泡麵有害身體健康
● 當心水果食物中毒 - Food Poisoning
● 不安全食物: 壽司被評為第一 - Sushi
● 一舉兩得 - 外食族抗漲帶便當
● 苦茶油 - Tea Seed Oil
● 隔夜菜食用有何可能問題？
● 長期不吃肉竟早衰失智
● 飲食與癌症關係密切 - Diet and Cancer
● 不含麩質飲食法的爭議- Gluten-free diet
● 吃深海魚 小心汞中毒- Mercury poison
● 老人愛管灌飲食, 恐營養失衡- Elderly
● 手搖飲當水喝！兩壯年男中風 半邊癱瘓
保健
▼ 運動 ===> >
● 運動健身好處多- Exercise for Health
● 運動讓你每個細胞都健康 - Exercise
● 慢跑運動 - Jogging Exercise
● 活動：要活就要運動 - Exercise is Key
● 有氧健身操課訓練 - Aerobics for health
● 養生之道- 勿喝冰冷飲料- No cold drink
● 小米, 燕麥, 糙米煮粥吃 改善胃潰瘍, 發炎
● 網傳留言：亂吃東西中年以後會很痛苦
● 葡萄糖胺食品保健？毒物醫師斥無效
● 山竹果汁 - Mangosteen Juice
● 滿街飲料店, 嚴重傷害台灣人健康-Hazard
● 牛初乳奶粉不能直接用作嬰兒主食
● 趁一切還來得及- 養生之道- Not too late
● 國際藥聞- 醫學期刊: 別浪費錢買維他命
● 顧他命可緩化療, 但沒療效- Glutamine
保健
● (三高) - 高血壓, 高血糖, 高血脂
● 油漱法 Oil Pulling - 荒謬的保健法
● 101歲劈腿爺,頭能頂地,腿可繞頸- 101 yr
● 阿金博士減肥法 - Dr. Atkin's Diet
● 最流行九種減肥飲食法- Weight loss diet
● 膳食纖維的功能與重要 - Dietary Biber
● 大燕麥片降膽固醇- Oatmeal
● 清朝 乾隆皇帝的高壽秘訣
● 冥想默思 (Meditation)
● Health Benefits of Meditation
● Unblock cholesterol plaqued arteries
營養
● 維生素缺乏症 - Vitamin Deficiency
● 維生素A 缺乏症 - Vitamin A Deficiency
● 維生素B1 (硫胺)缺乏 - Vitamin B1
● 維生素B2 (核黃素) - Vitamin B2
● 維生素B3 (菸鹼酸) - Vitamin B3
● 維生素B5 (pantothenic acid)
● 維生素B6
● 維生素B9 (葉酸) 缺乏- Folic Acid
● 維生素B12 缺乏症- Vit B12 Deficiency
● 維生素B12 - Vitamin B12
● 維生素C 缺乏症 - Vitamin C Deficiency
● 維生素D 缺乏症 - Vitamin D Deficiency
● 維生素E 缺乏症 - Vitamin E Deficiency
● 維生素 K - Vitamin K
● 補鉀降低心腦血管疾病風險 - Potassium
● 補鈣不能盲目，腎不好補鈣會傷害心臟
營養
● 魚油 - Fish oil
● 魚肝油 - Cod Liver Oil
● 二十二碳六烯酸 - DHA
● 水果的營養 - Fruit Nutrition
● 抗氧化劑 Anti-Oxidant
● 薑黃素(Curcumin) - 咖哩 Curry
● 人體缺乏維生素B2與得患癌症有關
● 中老年人喝牛奶能降低心血管疾病
● Milk Myth - 牛奶迷思
● Nutrition value- Juice vs. Concentrate
● Benefits of Orange Juice
● Nutrition & Food - Google Tech Talks
● Selenium 硒元素
健康
▼ Health ===> >
● Vitamin E Tied to Prostate Cancer Risk
● Nutrition and Immune System
● Our Microbes in Us
● Nutrients that Boost Immunity
● Exercise and Aging
● Leg Cramps While Sleeping
● 營養健康補品 - 初乳 - Colostrum
● 關於蜂蜜 - 一個真實的故事 - Honey Story
● 科學家研究咖啡因, 發現利弊參半-Coffee
● 震驚世界的醫學發現!Awesome discovery
● 十大健康惡習- Top 10 unhealthy habits
● 服用維他命有助健康? 效果具爭議-Vitamin
● 健康飲食就要從飲食中少油做起- Less oil
● 手腳冰冷，恐潛藏健康問題-
● 猛灌紅茶不喝水，壯男中風半癱
● 如何減肥瘦身 - Lose Body Weight
● 肌肉減少症- 骨骼肌減少症- Sarcopeni
● 怎樣測試自己是酸性體質或鹼性體質？
● 烘烤炸澱粉食物易生致癌物
● 枸杞與眼睛健康
● 瀋陽男1夜喝20瓶啤酒, 胰臟溶解只剩一層膜
健康
● 人體胃的生理功能與病症
● 小腸的生理功能與病變
● 大腸的生理功能與病變
● 如何提升人體免疫力 - Enhance Immunity
● 保衛人體健康免疫系統- Immunity
● 穀胱甘肽- Glutathione- (Antioxidant)
● 咳嗽3週才會好 別急吃抗生素
● 如何保持你的腸道健康 - Healthy Guts
● 緩解疼痛的策略: 雙臂交叉？Cross arms
● 睡眠改善高血糖-Sleep lower blood sugar
● 心因性猝死,1個月前會出現徵兆- Cardiac
● 預防髖部骨折，補充鈣與維生素D- Pelvis
● 肉類攝取與罹患癌症的風險
● 雞蛋與第二型糖尿病發生機率
● 鉀離子與身體健康 - K+
● 姿勢性低血壓 Orthostatic Hypotension
檢查
▼ 驗血 ===> >
● 驗血 - 全血細胞計數 - CBC
● 癌症指數的正確閱讀
● 抗體 Antibody (Immunoglobulin)
● Serum Free Light Chains -血清遊離輕鏈
● Beta 2-Microglobulin (β2-M)
● 膀胱(內視)鏡檢查 - Cystoscopy
● 大腸(內視)鏡檢查與結腸瘜肉
● 超音波掃瞄檢查- Ultrasound scan
● 孕婦超音波- Pregnancy ultrasound
● 心臟病檢查
● 肌電圖 檢查- Electromyography
● 腎功能檢查 - Kidney Function Tests
● 紅血球與貧血 (RBC & Anemia)
● 尿液分析檢驗 - Urine Test
● 胸部X光檢查 - Chest X-ray
● 血壓與血壓測量 - Blood Pressure
● 泌尿科常做的檢查
病症
▼ 胃腸病 ===> >
● 胃食道逆流病 - GERD, Reflux Disease
● 慢性胃炎 - Chronic Gastritis
● 胃黏膜-腸上皮化生 Intestinal Metaplasia
● 非潰瘍性消化不良- Nonulcer dyspepsia
● 下一個國民病大腸癌? 如何發現徵兆?
● 胰臟炎與胰臟疾病 - Pancreatitis
▼ 癌症 ===> >
● 癌症免疫療法- Cancer Immunotherapy
● 多發性骨髓瘤 - Multiple Myeloma
● 胰臟癌 - Pancreatic Cancer
● 淋巴瘤 - Lymphoma
● 泌尿道癌症
● 膀胱癌 - Bladder Cancer
● 肝癌 - Liver Cancer
● 食道癌 - Esophageal Cancer
▼ 症狀 >
● 血尿
● 阿茲海默氏症 Alzheimer D. (老年癡呆症)
● 如何預防老年癡呆症 -
● 如何預防失智症 -
● 重肌無力症 - Myasthenia Gravis
● What's Causing Your Memory Loss?
● Level of GFR and Anemia
● 低鈉血症 - Hyponatremia
● 體液與血鈉異常之處置
● 低血鉀症 - hypokalemia
● 高血鉀症 - hyperkalemia
● 低鉀血症和高鉀血症
● 酸血症 - Acidemia - 代謝性酸中毒
● 低鈣血症 - Hypocalcemia
醫療
▼ 健保 ===> >
● 中央健康保險署 - 台灣二代健保
● 台灣二代健保
● 台灣全民健保與急診醫療 - ER
● 健保藥費核價離譜- 同成分藥劑,價差逾2倍
● 全民健保老人整合門診，家屬大多不知道
● 台灣的醫療安全問題 -
▼ 心臟病 ===> >
● 心肌梗塞 - Heart Attack Signs
● 心臟病 體外反搏治療- EECP Therapy
● 體外「心臟震波」治療冠心病 - CSWT
▼ 眼科 ===> (眼睛健康與保養) >
● 中老年人眼睛與視力問題- Eye disease
● 眼睛 白內障 (Cataract)
● 眼睛 白內障的治療 - Cataract
● (好書推薦)：最新天星英漢百科醫學辭典
● 乳房腫塊以為瘀青, 推拿推到癌細胞擴散
● 葡萄糖胺療效淺，破除維骨力神話
● 腳跟疼痛？千萬別輕忽
● 中醫經方療效不顯，專家: 中藥用量該多大
● 你相信「中醫」有多少療效？
● 多發感覺運動神經病變-polyneuropathy
● 腳麻走不動？你可能需要神經傳導檢查
● 成大揪肝硬化元凶，治肝大突破
● 臨床打針注射技術
● 鼻胃管 - Nasogastric Tube
醫療
● 血尿 Hematuria
● 泌尿道感染 - 膀胱炎- Cystitis
● 憂鬱症 - Depression (Mood)
● 流感重症合併，肺炎感染驟增
● 老人骨質疏鬆症, 逾半數有骨折- Fracture
● 骨質疏鬆症與防治 - Osteoporosis
● 安慰藥效果 - Placebo Effect
● 帕金森氏症 - Parkinson's Disease
● 帕金森氏症治療 - Parkinson Treatment
● 帕金森氏症與睡眠失常
● Glutathione
● 達文西機械手臂手術- da Vinci Surgery
● 高血壓治療
腎病
▼ 腎病藥物 ===> >
● 活性炭 克裏美淨(Kremezin) 效果如何
● 活性炭 克裏美淨(Kremezin)效果不明顯
● 吉多利錠- Keto-analogues for CKD
● Sodium Bicarbonate Heals Kidney D.
● Sodium Bicarbonate Cures Cancer
● 腎血管肌肉脂肪瘤
● 泌尿道感染 尿道炎 基本知識
● 如何保護你的腎臟-Protect your kidneys
● 腎臟微循環與其內在調節 (急診醫學)
● 人體內水與電解質的平衡 (急診醫學)
● 腎臟炎的(飲食)治療處理
● 腎臟病患者飲食原則與禁忌- Kidney D.
● 腎臟病與蛋白質的攝取
● 如何保護腎臟？遠離慢性腎臟病
● 腎衰竭患者的飲食
● 逆轉腎！低蛋白搭酮酸胺延緩洗腎
● 洗腎病患營養與飲食原則
● (腎臟) 透析 (Dialysis) -- 洗腎
● Pentoxifylline 與慢性腎臟病
● Healthy Foods for Kidney Disease
● How to delay the onset of dialysis
貧血
● 貧血與診斷 - Anemia and Diagnosis
● 貧血與治療 - Anemia and Treatment
● 搶救貧血大作戰 - Fighting Anemia
● 缺鐵性貧血與治療- Iron-Defici anemia
● 貧血與慢性腎臟病- Anemia in CKD
● 貧血可能的疾病風險
● 輸血 相關知識- Blood Transfusion
● Anemia and EPO Treatment
RA
● 類風濕性關節炎 - Rheumatoid Arthritis
● 類風濕性關節炎- Rheumatoid Arthritis
● 過敏免疫風濕科- 常用藥物- A.I.R. Drug
● 免疫調節藥- Methotrexate, MTX 至善錠
● Methotrexate Toxicity- Treatment
● 免疫調節藥- 磺胺藥- Sulfasalazine, SSZ
● 免疫調節藥- Hydroxychloroquine, HCQ
● 類固醇 藥物 - Steroids
● 生物製劑 - Anti-TNF Biologic Agents
● 生物製劑- 復邁 (Humira, Adalimumab)
● 懷孕與類風濕關節炎藥物
● C反應蛋白 C-Reactive Protein- CRP
● 紅血球沉降率 - ESR
● 類風濕因子 Rheumatoid Factor (RF)?
● 抗環瓜氨酸抗體 - Anti-CCP
● 食物療法與類風濕關節炎-Diet & RA
● 食物與類風濕關節炎- Food & RA
● Natural Remedies for RA
● Vitamins, Minerals, and RA
藥物
● Acetylcysteine-富泌舒Fluimucil, Actein
● 家庭常備藥物 - Family Kept Medicine
● 小護士 - 曼秀雷敦 - Mentholatum
● 乙醯胺酚-普拿疼止痛藥-Acetaminophen
● 撒隆巴斯類 鎮痛貼片- Salonpas
● 抗生素藥品 - Antibiotics
● 麥格斯口服液- Megestrol Acetate
● 萬靈藥 - 阿斯匹靈 - Aspirin
● 藥物不良反應 - Adverse Drug Reaction
● 葡萄柚汁可能對藥物的影響- Grapefruit
● 藥物含鈉造成的不良作用
● 瀉劑 - Bisacodyl
● 毒物 戴奧辛 - Dioxin
● Beware of the Prolia (injection) Drug.
● 7 Drugs Whose Dangerous Risks
藥物
● 抗生素 賜復力生 Ceflexin - Cephalosporin
● 抗生素 - Levofloxacin (Cravit)
● 雙嘧達莫 - 潘生丁- Persantine
● 諾安命 Novamin (Prochlorperazine)
● 抗凝血劑- Warfarin 可邁丁- Coumadin
● 高血壓藥- 脈優- Amlodipine- Norvasc
● 高血壓藥 (道福寧) Dophilin
● 類固醇 藥物 - Steroid Drugs
● 消化性潰瘍藥 - Rabeprazole (Pariet)
● 消化性潰瘍藥- Esomerprazole (Nexium)
● 斷血炎 (Transamin) - 傳明酸
● 除鐵能 - Deferoxamine (Desferal)
● Pentoxifylline 與慢性腎臟病
● 帕金森病用藥 Madopar 美道普
● 帕金森病用藥 Requip 力必平(Ropinirole)
●
牙科
● 正確的刷牙方式 - Teeth Brushing
● 牙周病預防與治療-Periodontal disease
● 牙結石清除-洗牙-Scaling & root planing
● 牙痛的原因及應對方法 - Toothache
● 經常刷牙保持口腔清潔，有助於預防失智症
● 矯正牙齒時牙齦萎縮- Receding gum
● 牙齦萎縮與牙齒病症- Gum Recession
● 牙齒 根管治療術 - Root Canal
● 牙齒顯微根管治療術- Microendodontics
● 三叉神經痛誤以為牙痛,阿嬤沒牙才搞清楚
● 婦人痛失五顆牙！才知三叉神經痛作怪
● 資深牙醫的良心告白：能做假牙就不要植牙
● 牙痛和三叉神經痛怎麼分辨？
● 長期的不明原因的牙痛請注意牙隱裂
教育
●
● 觀光餐飲成為台灣技職院校熱門科系
● 台灣教育制度無助提升學生素質- Diploma
● 台灣大學教育泡沫化- Busted education
● 經濟搞成這樣很正常, 陸生: 文化大學弱爆了
● 台灣大學數量密度過高, 大學學歷沒價值
人物
● 台灣 企業家 經營之神 王永慶
● 台灣 企業家 宏達電 王雪紅 - Cher Wang
● 台灣 企業家 鴻海 郭台銘 - Terry Gou
● 中華民國 總統 馬英九 - Ma Ying-jeou
● 台灣 第一名模 - 林志玲 - Lin Chi-Ling
● 台灣特有的檳榔西施- Betel nut beauty
● 台灣新聞人物相片- Taiwan image
● 台灣 政治人物 婚外情
● 台灣 陳水扁的319事件
休閒
▼ 電影 ===> >
● 台北 電影院 Taipei Movie Theaters
● 台灣國語電影- 經典回顧- Movie Classic
● 台灣電影歷史介紹- Taiwan Movie History
● 2011台灣電影〈賽德克·巴萊〉
● 近年台灣電影 介紹
★ 外國(電影) 記錄影片
▼ 交通 ===> >
● 台北 捷運系統 - Metro Taipei
● 台灣 高速鐵路 - Taiwan HSR
● 台灣 中華航空 - China Airlines
● 台灣 長榮航空 - EVA Air
● 台灣 計程車 - Taiwan Taxi
● 台灣 遊覽車 - Taiwan Tour Bus
● 台灣重要傳統節日- Taiwan festivals
● 台灣廟會鋼管舞表演-Taiwan pole dance
● 中秋節在台灣如何變成烤肉節
● 台灣趣事笑話 集錦
● 郊外美景欣賞 -
● 環球小姐 選美 - Miss Universe
● 好萊塢 健美男星- Hollywood Fit Stars
● 2012台北世貿 新車大展-2012 Auto Show
● 世界服裝展台走秀-Runway fashion show
● 服裝設計展覽 - Fashion Design
● 台北服裝走秀 - Fashion Show Taipei
● 台北世貿中心- 資訊月 展覽
● 台灣展場 Show Girls
▼ 旅遊 ===>
連接
聯絡
● 台灣美食悠遊網- Taiwan Gourmet
● 台灣 旅遊網- Taiwan Tour Travel
● 生活 智慧網- Good Living Website
● 消費者 網站- Consumer Website
★ 大陸 神州網- China Tour Travel
● 台灣客 資訊網
★ 知識 技術網
● 快樂果 旅遊- Caolgo Tour & Travel
● 自行車 全聯網 -(1)
● 英文 學習網 (1)
★ 最新天星英漢百科醫學辭典
★ 醫學藥知網 - Medical Knowledge
現在位置 : 營養 > 維生素B9 (葉酸) 缺乏 - Folic Acid Deficiency
葉酸 (Folic Acid, Folate)
葉酸 (Folic acid，又稱為維生素B9或者Bc最早稱作維生素M)是維生素B9的水溶形式。葉酸的名字來源於拉丁文folium (意思是葉子)。由米切爾(H．K．Mitchell，1941)及其同事首次從菠菜葉中提取純化出來，命名為葉酸。葉酸作為重要的一碳載體，在核苷酸合成，同型半胱氨酸的再甲基化等諸多重要生理代謝功能方面有重要作用。因此葉酸在快速的細胞分裂和生長過程（如嬰兒發育、懷孕）中有尤其重要的作用。葉酸能促進骨髓中的幼細胞發育成熟形成正常形態的紅細胞，從而避免貧血。
劍橋大學的埃里卡沃森(Erica Watson)及其同事發現，缺乏葉酸不僅導致子一代患病，並能影響到隔代，造成同樣的問題。
Folid Acid Food- The Importance of Folic Acid
葉酸在孕婦懷孕中的重要作用
由於葉酸對於神經管的形成有重要作用，因此孕婦在懷孕前攝入足夠的葉酸對於胎兒的正常發育很重要。懷孕期間缺乏葉酸能夠影響胎兒神經系統的發育。研究表明在懷孕前期和懷孕中補充足夠的葉酸能夠降低神經管畸形和唇裂胎兒的出生率。美國全國環境衛生科學研究所的研究人員在新一期《新英格蘭醫學雜誌》上報告說，如果孕婦補充葉酸可防嬰兒唇裂，但對於預防齶裂作用似乎不太明顯。
自1998年1月1日起，美國已強制規定在某些穀物食品中強化葉酸，FDA規定每1KG穀物食品（麵包、麵粉、早餐穀物、大米等）強化1.4mg葉酸(美國衛生及公共服務部,1996年)。
加拿大、澳大利亞、墨西哥以及智利等國隨後也效仿美國推行「葉酸強化」葉酸另外可以幫助乳汁增加細胞。
70%接受調查的西班牙孕婦，沒有補充葉酸。
葉酸的食物來源
從葉酸最初的提取和名稱就能知道，葉酸大量存在於帶葉的蔬菜中。菠菜、蘆筍、蕪菁、小白菜、萵苣、抱子甘藍、花椰菜、黃豆、玉米、扁豆、豌豆、葵花籽的粗糧及其他帶葉的蔬菜。水果包括哈密瓜、蜜瓜、香蕉、木莓、葡萄柚、草莓、以及橙汁、罐裝菠蘿汁、番茄汁、等...。動物食品如動物的肝臟、腎臟、禽肉及蛋類，如豬肝、雞肉、牛肉、羊肉等也含有豐富的葉酸。但是由於烹飪時的高溫對於葉酸的破壞和人體吸收效率不高的原因，日常飲食還是較難滿足孕婦的葉酸需要。所以孕婦在懷孕期間(甚至懷孕前)補充人工合成的葉酸藥物是必要的。有研究表明男性服用葉酸也能增加精子的質量-減少染色體缺陷從而降低新生兒唐氏綜合征發生的幾率。
每日攝入量
孕婦建議每日攝入量可多加100微克到300微克左右（1mcg，或者1μg，等於千分之一毫克，百萬分之一克）。
因其有一定的毒副作用，美國食品藥品監督管理局規定成年人每日葉酸攝入量安全上限為1毫克，即1000微克。
葉酸藥物要保存在乾燥避光陰涼的地方。因為葉酸見水、見光都會分解。
Folic Acid - Vitamin B9
葉酸
Folic acid (Vitamin B9) 葉酸
Folic acid (also known as vitamin M, vitamin B9, vitamin Bc (or folacin), pteroyl-L-glutamic acid) is a form of the water-soluble vitamin B9. Folate is a naturally occurring form of the vitamin, found in food, while folic acid is synthetically produced, and used in fortified foods and supplements. Folic acid is itself not biologically active, but its biological importance is due to tetrahydrofolate and other derivatives after its conversion to dihydrofolic acid in the liver.
Vitamin B9 (folic acid and folate) is essential for numerous bodily functions. Humans cannot synthesize folate de novo; therefore, folate has to be supplied through the diet to meet their daily requirements. The human body needs folate to synthesize DNA, repair DNA, and methylate DNA as well as to act as a cofactor in certain biological reactions. It is especially important in aiding rapid cell division and growth, such as in infancy and pregnancy. Children and adults both require folic acid to produce healthy red blood cells and prevent anemia.
Folate and folic acid derive their names from the Latin word folium, which means "leaf". Folate occurs naturally in many foods, and among plants are especially plentiful in dark green leafy vegetables.
A lack of dietary folates can lead to folate deficiency. A complete lack of dietary folate takes months before deficiency develops as normal individuals have about 500–20,000 µg of folate in body stores. This deficiency can result in many health problems, the most notable one being neural tube defects in developing embryos. Common symptoms of folate deficiency include diarrhea, macrocytic anemia with weakness or shortness of breath, nerve damage with weakness and limb numbness (peripheral neuropathy), pregnancy complications, mental confusion, forgetfulness or other cognitive declines, mental depression, sore or swollen tongue, peptic or mouth ulcers, headaches, heart palpitations, irritability, and behavioral disorders. Low levels of folate can also lead to homocysteine accumulation. DNA synthesis and repair are impaired and this could lead to cancer development.
Folic acid crystals
Health Benefits and Risks
Pregnancy
Adequate folate intake during the preconception period (which is the time right before and just after a woman becomes pregnant) helps protect against a number of congenital malformations, including neural tube defects (which are the most notable birth defects that occur from folate deficiency). Neural tube defects are severe abnormalities of the central nervous system that develop in babies during the first few weeks of pregnancy resulting in malformations of the spine, skull, and brain; the most common neural tube defects are spina bifida and anencephaly. The risk of neural tube defects is significantly reduced when supplemental folic acid is consumed in addition to a healthy diet before conception and during the first month after conception. Supplementation with folic acid has also been shown to reduce the risk of congenital heart defects, cleft lips, limb defects, and urinary tract anomalies. Folate deficiency during pregnancy may also increase the risk of preterm delivery, infant low birth weight and fetal growth retardation, as well as increasing homocysteine level in the blood, which may lead to spontaneous abortion and pregnancy complications, such as placental abruption and pre-eclampsia. Women who could become pregnant are advised to eat foods fortified with folic acid or take supplements in addition to eating folate-rich foods to reduce the risk of serious birth defects. Taking 400 micrograms of synthetic folic acid daily from fortified foods and/or supplements has been suggested for all non-pregnant women, in order to have adequate folic acid intake even in case of unplanned pregnancies. The RDA for folate equivalents for pregnant women is set at 600 micrograms, although a range of 400 micrograms up to 4 milligrams (4000 micrograms) reported in an old U.S. Public Health Service guideline is still followed by many health care providers. The mechanisms and reasons why folic acid prevents birth defects is unknown. It is hypothesized that the insulin-like growth factor 2 gene is differentially methylated and these changes in IGF2 result in improved intrauterine growth and development. Approximately 85% of women in an urban Irish study reported using folic acid supplements before they become pregnant, but only 18% used enough folic acid supplements to meet the current folic acid requirements due, it is reported, to socio-economic challenges.[26] Folic acid supplements may also protect the fetus against disease when the mother is battling a disease or taking medications or smoking during pregnancy.
It also contributes to oocyte maturation, implantation, placentation, in addition to the general effects of folic acid and pregnancy. Therefore, it is necessary to receive sufficient amounts through the diet to avoid subfertility.
There is growing concern worldwide that prenatal high folic acid in the presence of low vitamin B12 causes epigenetic changes in the unborn predisposing them to metabolic syndromes, central adiposity and adult diseases such as Type 2 diabetes. Another active area of research and concern is that either too much or too little folic acid in utero causes epigenetic changes to the brain leading to autism spectrum disorders.
Sperm Quality
Folate is necessary for fertility in both men and women. It contributes to spermatogenesis. Therefore, it is necessary to receive sufficient amounts through the diet to avoid subfertility. Also, polymorphisms in genes of enzymes involved in folate metabolism could be one reason for fertility complications in some women with unexplained infertility.
Heart Disease
Taking folic acid does not reduce cardiovascular disease even though it reduces homocysteine levels.
Folic acid supplements consumed before and during pregnancy may reduce the risk of heart defects in infants.
Stroke
Folic acid appears to reduce the risk of stroke, which may be due to the role folate plays in regulating homocysteine concentration. The reviews indicate the risk of stroke appears to be reduced only in some individuals, but a definite recommendation regarding supplementation beyond the current RDA has not been established for stroke prevention. Observed stroke reduction is consistent with the reduction in pulse pressure produced by folate supplementation of 5 mg per day, since hypertension is a key risk factor for stroke. Folic supplements are inexpensive and relatively safe to use, which is why stroke or hyperhomocysteinemia patients are encouraged to consume daily B vitamins including folic acid.
Cancer
Folic acid supplementation does not appear to affect the rate of cancer.
Diets high in folate are associated with decreased risk of colorectal cancer; some studies show the association is stronger for folate from foods alone than for folate from foods and supplements, One broad cancer screening trial reported a potential harmful effect of too much folate intake on breast cancer risk, suggesting routine folate supplementation should not be recommended as a breast cancer preventive. Most research studies associate high dietary folate intake with a reduced risk of prostate cancer.
Antifolates
Folate is important for cells and tissues that rapidly divide. Cancer cells divide rapidly, and drugs that interfere with folate metabolism are used to treat cancer. The antifolate methotrexate is a drug often used to treat cancer because it inhibits the production of the active form of THF from the inactive dihydrofolate (DHF). However, methotrexate can be toxic, producing side effects, such as inflammation in the digestive tract that make it difficult to eat normally. Also, bone marrow depression (inducing leukopenia and thrombocytopenia), and acute renal and hepatic failure have been reported.
Folinic acid, under the drug name leucovorin, a form of folate (formyl-THF), can help "rescue" or reverse the toxic effects of methotrexate. Folinic acid is not the same as folic acid. Folic acid supplements have little established role in cancer chemotherapy. There have been cases of severe adverse effects of accidental substitution of folic acid for folinic acid in patients receiving methotrexate cancer chemotherapy. It is important for anyone receiving methotrexate to follow medical advice on the use of folic or folinic acid supplements. The supplement of folinic acid in patients undergoing methotrexate treatment is to give cells dividing less rapidly enough folate to maintain normal cell functions. The amount of folate given will be depleted by rapidly dividing cells (cancer) very fast and so will not negate the effects of methotrexate.
Psychological
Some evidence links a shortage of folate with depression. Limited evidence from randomised controlled trials showed using folic acid in addition to antidepressants, to be specific SSRIs, may have benefits. Research at the University of York and Hull York Medical School has found a link between depression and low levels of folate. One study by the same team involved 15,315 subjects. However, the evidence is probably too limited at present for this to be a routine treatment recommendation.[according to whom?] Folic acid supplementation affects noradrenaline and serotonin receptors within the brain, which could be the cause of folic acid's possible ability to act as an antidepressant. The exact mechanisms involved in the development of schizophrenia are not entirely clear, but may have something to do with DNA methylation and one carbon metabolism, and these are the precise roles of folate in the body.
Macular degeneration
A substudy of the Women's Antioxidant and Folic Acid Cardiovascular Study published in 2009 reported use of a nutritional supplement containing folic acid, pyridoxine, and cyanocobalamin decreased the risk of developing age-related macular degeneration by 34.7%.
Folic Acid, B12 and Iron
There is a complex interaction between folic acid, vitamin B12 and iron. A deficiency of one may be "masked" by excess of another so the three must be in balance.
Toxicity
The risk of toxicity from folic acid is low, because folate is a water-soluble vitamin and is regularly removed from the body through urine. One potential issue associated with high dosages of folic acid is that it has a masking effect on the diagnosis of pernicious anaemia (vitamin B12 deficiency), and a variety of concerns of potential negative impacts on health.
Folate deficiency
Folate deficiency may lead to glossitis, diarrhea, depression, confusion, anemia, and fetal neural tube defects and brain defects (during pregnancy). Folate deficiency is accelerated by alcohol consumption. Folate deficiency is diagnosed by analyzing CBC and plasma vitamin B12 and folate levels. CBC may indicate megaloblastic anemia but this could also be a sign of vitamin B12 deficiency. A serum folate of 3 μg/L or lower indicates deficiency. Serum folate level reflects folate status but erythrocyte folate level better reflects tissue stores after intake. An erythrocyte folate level of 140 μg/L or lower indicates inadequate folate status. Increased homocysteine level suggests tissue folate deficiency but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. One way to differentiate between folate deficiency from vitamin B12 deficiency is by testing for methylmalonic acid levels. Normal MMA levels indicate folate deficiency and elevated MMA levels indicate vitamin B12 deficiency. Folate deficiency is treated with supplemental oral folate of 400 to 1000 μg per day. This treatment is very successful in replenishing tissues, even if deficiency was caused by malabsorption. Patients with megaloblastic anemia need to be tested for vitamin B12 deficiency before folate treatment, because if the patient has vitamin B12 deficiency, folate supplementation can remove the anemia, but can also worsen neurologic problems. Morbidly obese patients with BMIs of greater than 50 are more likely to develop folate deficiency. Patients with celiac disease have a higher chance of developing folate deficiency. Cobalamin deficiency may lead to folate deficiency, which, in turn, increases homocysteine levels and may result in the development of cardiovascular disease or birth defects.
Malaria
Some studies show iron-folic acid supplementation in children under 5 may result in increased mortality due to malaria; this has prompted the World Health Organization to alter their iron-folic acid supplementation policies for children in malaria-prone areas, such as India.
Sources
Folate naturally occurs in a wide variety of foods, including vegetables (particularly dark green leafy vegetables), fruits and fruit juices, nuts, beans, peas, dairy products, poultry and meat, eggs, seafood, grains, and some beers. Spinach, liver, yeast, asparagus, and Brussels sprouts are among the foods with the highest levels of folate.
Folic acid is added to grain products in many countries, and in these countries, fortified products make up a significant source of the population's folic acid intake. Because of the difference in bioavailability between supplemented folic acid and the different forms of folate found in food, the dietary folate equivalent (DFE) system was established. 1 DFE is defined as 1 μg of dietary folate, or 0.6 μg of folic acid supplement. This is reduced to 0.5 μg of folic acid if the supplement is taken on an empty stomach.
Folate naturally found in food is susceptible to high heat and ultraviolet light, and is soluble in water. It is heat-labile in acidic environments and may also be subject to oxidation.
Some meal replacement products do not meet the folate requirements as specified by the RDAs.
Folate (B9) can also be processed from the pro-vitamin Pteroylmonoglutamic acid (Vitamin B10).
History
In the 1920s, scientists believed folate deficiency and anemia were the same condition. A key observation by researcher Lucy Wills in 1931 led to the identification of folate as the nutrient needed to prevent anemia during pregnancy. Dr. Wills demonstrated anemia could be reversed with brewer's yeast. Folate was identified as the corrective substance in brewer's yeast in the late 1930s, and was first isolated in and extracted from spinach leaves by Mitchell and others in 1941. Bob Stokstad isolated the pure crystalline form in 1943, and was able to determine its chemical structure while working at the Lederle Laboratories of the American Cyanamid Company. This historical research project, of obtaining folic acid in a pure crystalline form in 1945, was done by the team called the "folic acid boys," under the supervision and guidance of Director of Research Dr. Yellapragada Subbarao, at the Lederle Lab, Pearl River, NY. This research subsequently led to the synthesis of the antifolate aminopterin, the first-ever anticancer drug, the clinical efficacy was proven by Sidney Farber in 1948. In the 1950s and 1960s, scientists began to discover the biochemical mechanisms of action for folate. In 1960, experts first linked folate deficiency to neural tube defects. In the late 1990s, US scientists realized, despite the availability of folate in foods and in supplements, there was still a challenge for people to meet their daily folate requirements, which is when the US implemented the folate fortification program.
Biological roles
DNA and cell division
Folate is necessary for the production and maintenance of new cells, for DNA synthesis and RNA synthesis, and for preventing changes to DNA, and, thus, for preventing cancer. It is especially important during periods of frequent cell division and growth, such as infancy and pregnancy. Folate is needed to carry one-carbon groups for methylation reactions and nucleic acid synthesis (the most notable one being thymine, but also purine bases). Thus, folate deficiency hinders DNA synthesis and cell division, affecting hematopoietic cells and neoplasms the most because of their greater frequency of cell division. RNA transcription, and subsequent protein synthesis, are less affected by folate deficiency, as the mRNA can be recycled and used again (as opposed to DNA synthesis, where a new genomic copy must be created). Since folate deficiency limits cell division, erythropoiesis, production of red blood cells, is hindered and leads to megaloblastic anemia, which is characterized by large immature red blood cells. This pathology results from persistently thwarted attempts at normal DNA replication, DNA repair, and cell division, and produces abnormally large red cells called megaloblasts (and hypersegmented neutrophils) with abundant cytoplasm capable of RNA and protein synthesis, but with clumping and fragmentation of nuclear chromatin. Some of these large cells, although immature (reticulocytes), are released early from the marrow in an attempt to compensate for the anemia. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia. Deficiency of folate in pregnant women has been implicated in neural tube defects (NTD); therefore, many developed countries have implemented mandatory folic acid fortification in cereals, etc. NTDs occur early in pregnancy (first month), therefore women must have abundant folate upon conception. Folate is required to make red blood cells and white blood cells and folate deficiency may lead to anemia, which further leads to fatigue and weakness and inability to concentrate.
Biochemistry of DNA base and amino acid production
Metabolism of folic acid to recycle Homocysteine into Methionine
In the form of a series of tetrahydrofolate (THF) compounds, folate derivatives are substrates in a number of single-carbon-transfer reactions, and also are involved in the synthesis of dTMP (2′-deoxythymidine-5′-phosphate) from dUMP (2′-deoxyuridine-5′-phosphate). It is a substrate for an important reaction that involves vitamin B12 and it is necessary for the synthesis of DNA, and so required for all dividing cells.
The pathway leading to the formation of tetrahydrofolate (FH4) begins when folic acid (F) is reduced to dihydrofolate (DHF) (FH2), which is then reduced to THF. Dihydrofolate reductase catalyses the last step. Vitamin B3 in the form of NADPH is a necessary cofactor for both steps of the synthesis. Thus, hydride molecules are transferred from NADPH to the C6 position of the pteridine ring to reduce folic acid to THF.
Methylene-THF (CH2FH4) is formed from THF by the addition of a methylene bridge from one of three carbon donors: formate, serine, or glycine. Methyl tetrahydrofolate (CH3-THF, or methyl-THF) can be made from methylene-THF by reduction of the methylene group with NADPH.
Another form of THF, 10-formyl-THF, results from oxidation of methylene-THF or is formed from formate donating formyl group to THF. Also, histidine can donate a single carbon to THF to form methenyl-THF.
Vitamin B12 is the only acceptor of methyl-THF, and this reaction produces methyl-B12 (methylcobalamin). There is also only one acceptor for methyl-B12, homocysteine, in a reaction catalyzed by homocysteine methyltransferase. These reactions are of importance because a defect in homocysteine methyltransferase or a deficiency of B12 may lead to a so-called "methyl-trap" of THF, in which THF is converted to a reservoir of methyl-THF which thereafter has no way of being metabolized, and serves as a sink of THF that causes a subsequent deficiency in folate.[76] Thus, a deficiency in B12 can generate a large pool of methyl-THF that is unable to undergo reactions and will mimic folate deficiency.
The reactions that lead to the methyl-THF reservoir can be shown in chain form:
folate → dihydrofolate → tetrahydrofolate ↔ methylene-THF → methyl-THF
Folate metabolism
All the biological functions of folic acid are performed by tetrahydrofolate and other derivatives. Their biological availability to the body depends upon dihydrofolate reductase action in the liver. This action is unusually slow in humans, being less than 2% of that in rats. Moreover, in contrast to rats, an almost-5-fold variation in the activity of this enzyme exists between humans. Due to this low activity, it has been suggested this limits the conversion of folic acid into its biologically active forms "when folic acid is consumed at levels higher than the Tolerable Upper Intake Level (1 mg/d for adults)."
Overview of drugs that interfere with folate reactions
A number of drugs interfere with the biosynthesis of folic acid and THF. Among them are the dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors such as trimethoprim, pyrimethamine, and methotrexate; the sulfonamides (competitive inhibitors of 4-aminobenzoic acid in the reactions of dihydropteroate synthetase).
Valproic acid, one of the most commonly prescribed anticonvulsants that is also used to treat certain psychological conditions, is a known inhibitor of folic acid, and as such, has been shown to cause neural tube defects and cases of spina bifida and cognitive impairment in the newborn. Because of this considerable risk, those mothers who must continue to use valproic acid or its derivatives during pregnancy to control their condition (as opposed to stopping the drug or switching to another drug or to a lesser dose) should take folic acid supplements under the direction and guidance of their health care providers.
The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III 1988–91) and the Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals (1994–96 CSFII) indicated most adults did not consume adequate folate. However, the folic acid fortification program in the United States has increased folic acid content of commonly eaten foods such as cereals and grains, and as a result, diets of most adults now provide recommended amounts of folate equivalents.
Dietary fortification
In the USA many grain products are fortified with folic acid.
Folic acid fortification is a process where folic acid is added to flour with the intention of promoting public health through increasing blood folate levels in the populace. In the USA, food is fortified with folic acid, only one of the many naturally-occurring forms of folate, and a substance contributing only a minor amount to the folates in natural foods.
Since the discovery of the link between insufficient folic acid and neural tube defects, governments and health organizations worldwide have made recommendations concerning folic acid supplementation for women intending to become pregnant.
Fortification is controversial, with issues having been raised concerning individual liberty, as well as the health concerns described in the Toxicity section above. In the USA, there is concern that the federal government mandates fortification, but does not provide monitoring of potential undesirable effects of fortification.
首頁
About
Services
Menu
Contact
Copyright © 2015