Imitrex - Sumatriptan: Migraine Treament, Buying Infomation and Facts
Anxiety
Muscle Relaxants
Pain Relief
Sleeping Aids
Drugs
Actonel
Adderall
Ambien
Arcoxia
Ativan
Buspar
Celebrex
Codeine
Dilantin
Ephedrine
Feldene
Hydrocodone
Imitrex
Imovane
Klonopin
Lioresal
Mobic
Mogadon
Motrin
Naprosyn
Neurontin
Pletal
Relafen
Ritalin
Soma
Sosegon
Ultram
Valium
Xanax
Viagra
Voltaren
Zanaflex
About
Home | Drugs | Imitrex
Imitrex
The drugs Imitrex and Sumatriptan are very successful for treating Migraine. Anyone who suffers from this medical condition will know the devastating effects it can have on your day to day life as Migraines can occur at any time and will often knock you for six when you are experiencing them.
The first sign of a Migraine can often be a slight blind spot in your vision which is quickly following by what can best be described as a line of jagged and flashing lights which will make it very difficult for you to see clearly, this light phenomenon can last for any amount of time and is usually followed by an agonising headache.
If you are suffering from Migraines on a regular basis then first have a chat with your Doctor who is going to be able to discuss the possible causes, and will if it is deemed necessary prescribe Imitrex or Sumatriptan to you.
How to Purchase Imitrex
There are plenty of places that are going to be able to supply you with either Imitrex or Sumatriptan. If you are able to get free prescriptions from your Doctor then it may be best off you getting a prescription as you will obviously not have to pay for your supply of these drugs.
If you have to pay for your drugs and medications then do shop around as there are plenty of online pharmacies that supply both Imitrex or Sumatriptan and you can often find it you choose to bulk buy these two drugs you can make some substantial savings on the cost price.
Side Effects of Imitrex
You can much like when you take any drug or medication, end up suffering from side effects from those drugs. In regards to the side effects often experienced by users of Imitrex and Sumatriptan these can include breathing difficulties, feeling dizzy, feeling drowsy, feelings of heaviness, sensations of heat or cold, pressure or tightness in any part of the body, flushing, muscle pain or tenderness, nausea, pain, raised blood pressure, sensory problems such as Paraesthesia and hypoesthesia, tiredness, vomiting and general weakness.
If you do take Imitrex or Sumatriptan and are worried you may be suffering from any of the recognised side effects then please consult medical attention immediately.
Imitrex Questions and Answers
There will be possibly a lot of questions you have regarding Imitrex or Sumatriptan, and as such below we have put in place a range of questions and answers that you may find useful and helpful. Your Doctor is of course the person best placed to prescribe you with these drugs, and as such if you find you are suffering from Migraines which are affecting your day to day life then make an appointment to see you Doctor who will be able to advice you accordingly on the best course of action to take to help you manage the pain associated with Migraines.
What are Migraines?
Migraines are caused by several different things, however they all usually make an appearance by a small blind spot appearing in a sufferer’s eye or eyes, and this is then followed by visual impairments that can include bright and colourful lights flashing in a line across their field of vision. A Migraine will then often develop into a very painful and prolonged headache. A Migraine can last for just a few minutes, hours or even days and if not treated they can have a massive effect on a person more so due to the visual impairment they experience when suffering from a Migraine.
Can anyone get and suffer from Migraines?
There is no one type of person who is more likely to suffer from a Migraine, they can and often will affect anyone at any time and usually there is no known reason why you have start to get a Migraine, however once it takes effects it can cause panic in people who have never suffered from one before due to the affect it can have of their eye sight.
What should I do if I get a Migraine?
As people who tend to suffer from Migraines a lot will often be able to spot the early telltale signs that one is about to occur, then you should take any medication you have been prescribed for Migraines and also retire to a darkened room, close your eyes and take it easy. If you are driving then you should pull over somewhere safe and wait till the Migraine has fully cleared before you carry on driving, as your vision is likely to be impaired when suffering from a Migraine you should not drive or operate any type of machinery.
How long will Imitrex take to work?
The amount of time it will take for Imitrex to work is always going to vary from person to person. Your Doctor is the person who will be in the best position to advise you on the correct dosage and just how regularly you should take this drug. You may find that once you first start taking it there will be a considerable amount of time before it seems to work, whilst some people will find it works more or less straight away.
If you feel that taking Imitrex is not having any positive effects on your Migraines, then have a chat with the Doctor who prescribed it as there are many other alternatives available which may have a much better result.
Will I always suffer from Migraines?
Migraines can come and go all the time, you may experience one and then will never suffer from another one again, however there are some people who can suffer with Migraines for long periods of times. There are also some people who will, for reasons they cannot understand, suffering from a period of time where they will have Migraine after Migraine and then they will clear up and they will not suffer from a Migraine again for months or even years.
Pregnancy and Imitrex
Taking Imitrex when you are pregnant, trying for a baby, or breast-feeding may not be suitable as there are a range of side effects of this drug that may cause a reaction. With this in mind if you are pregnant or are thinking of getting pregnant or are breast feeding a baby then you should ensure your Doctor is aware of these facts. He or she will then be able to take that into account, and may prescribe an alternative course of treatment that will be more suitable to you, as there are many alternatives that are readily available are on offer.
Dosage of Imitrex and Interactions
Sumatriptan should only be taken as prescribed by your Doctor, and whilst there are many different pill sizes and doses of this drug you need to ensure that you are all times taking the prescribed dose as the right time, as there may be a risk of overdoing on this product.
When taking Sumatriptan there is also a risk that it may interact with other medications and drugs you are taking, and this is why your should alert and make aware any medical expert or your Doctor of all other drugs you are taking.
Is Imitrex an Addictive Drug?
Imitrex can be an addictive drug for some people, and this is why your Doctor should be ensuring that they regularly check up on you regarding the use of this drug when he or she has prescribed it to you. This drug can be taken for both short and long periods of time, however always make sure you are regularly being monitored by your medical expert or your own Doctor or one familiar with your condition.
If you have any problems or are worried about the addictive nature of Imitrex then please discuss this with your Doctor as there may be other more suitable drugs and medications that he can prescribe instead of this one which will have the same desired effect.
Can Imitrex make me drowsy?
Imitrex can and may make you drowsy when you are taking it, whilst everyone will react differently when taking it as there is a chance of you becoming tired or getting a feeling of drowsiness you should be aware of this fact and not drive or operate machinery whilst taking it. You can of course discuss this with your Doctor who will advise you of the best course of action if you are getting tired or sleepy when taking it.
Can people be allergic to Imitrex?
There could be a very small chance that you will get an allergic reaction when you are taking Imitrex, and as such at the first signs of any type of allergic reaction you should seek urgent medical attention, and also let the medical staff know that you have taken this drug so as they will know what antidote or medical treatment to give, whilst rare you may, if you do take this drug suffer from an allergic reaction.
Case Studies
HPV vaccine
Health-Information Technology and the Use of Computerized Records in Medicine
End of Life Care
Drug Development and Regulation
Complementary and Alternative Medicines
Archives
January 2013
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Sitemap
© Improve Healthcare 2014