Foods That Lower Blood Pressure
Home
قالب وردپرس درنا توس
Breaking News
Valve says it will hide bad-faith scores to blunt review bombing
Live: Super Rugby game between Highlanders and Crusaders cancelled in wake of Christchurch terror attacks | 1 NEWS NOW
Unique Iberian Male DNA was Practically Wiped Out by Immigrant Farmers 4500 Years Ago [New Study]
Wide receiver Cole Beasley says he picked Bills over Patriots
CVS Health: Patience Warranted – CVS Health Corporation (NYSE:CVS)
‘Mama June’ Shannon Reportedly Arrested for Drug Possession
First, a North Carolina man’s wife was found dead, now police took out warrants and the man is missing
Curing HIV just got more complicated. Can CRISPR help? | Science
Apex Legends May Be Teasing Octane with a New In-Game Item
New Zealand mosque shooting: Latest updates and development of terror attack in Christchurch that was video livestreamed by shooter – live updates
Home / Health / Foods That Lower Blood Pressure
Foods That Lower Blood Pressure
Health 0 Views
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
LinkedIn
Pinterest
The dairy isn't suitable for everyone, but if you can tolerate it, you should know that a study of over 2,500 people – with normal blood pressure monitored for 14.6 years – showed that those who ate three or more portions of milk a day or week compared to less than a portion, had a slower increase in blood pressure. In other words, dairy consumption has delayed hypertension, but has not completely prevented it.
A meta-analysis also showed that low-fat dairy products reduced the risk of hypertension while cheese, yogurt, fermented milk or whole milk had no effect. A subsequent systematic review was accepted, but the authors concluded that it is not clear whether low-fat dairy products were more useful than normal dairy products when it comes to blood pressure.
If you can tolerate dairy products, enjoy them daily or weekly can help reduce the risk of developing high blood pressure. If you can't tolerate it due to food sensitivities, allergies, digestive discomforts or autoimmune problems, don't stress yourself. You can get benefits from other foods on this list.
Source link
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Related Articles
Curing HIV just got more complicated. Can CRISPR help? | Science
Salmonella outbreak traced to Elko restaurant | News
Opioid Maker Purdue Promises Not to Profit from Its New Overdose Antidote
Popular Posts
Powered by remonews.com | Designed by remonews
© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved