Econazole fungal treatment. Econazole cream | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Medicines
Treatments for Skin Conditions
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Download PDF
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Econazole for fungal skin and nail infections Pevaryl
Authored by Michael Stewart, Reviewed by Sid Dajani | Last edited 11 Oct 2017 | Certified by The Information Standard
Apply the cream twice a day for a skin infection.
Apply the cream once a day for a nail infection. Cover with a plaster to keep the cream in contact with the nail.
Continue to use the cream for a week or so after all signs of the infection have gone.
In this article
About econazole for skin and nail infections
Before using econazole cream
How to use econazole cream
Getting the most from your treatment
Can econazole cream cause problems?
How to store econazole cream
Important information about all medicines
In This Article
Econazole for fungal skin and nail infections
Pevaryl
In this article
About econazole for skin and nail infections
Before using econazole cream
How to use econazole cream
Getting the most from your treatment
Can econazole cream cause problems?
How to store econazole cream
Important information about all medicines
About econazole for skin and nail infections
Type of medicine An antifungal
Used for Fungal skin and nail infections
Also called Pevaryl®
Available as Cream
Infections caused by a fungus or a yeast (a type of fungus) can affect many different areas of the body - some examples are fungal groin infections, fungal sweat rashes, athlete's foot, and fungal nail infections. Econazole eases the symptoms of infections such as these by killing the fungi causing the infection. Econazole cream is available on prescription, and you can also buy it without a prescription at a pharmacy.
Econazole is a medicine which is also used to treat vaginal thrush. There is information about this in the separate medicine leaflet called Econazole for vaginal thrush.
Before using econazole cream
To make sure this is the right treatment for you, before you start using econazole make sure your doctor or pharmacist knows:
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Although econazole is not known to be harmful to babies, you should only use medicines on the recommendation of a doctor while you are expecting or breast-feeding a baby.
If you are taking any other medicines or using any other creams. This includes any medicines which are available to buy without a prescription, as well as herbal and complementary medicines.
If you have ever had an allergic reaction to a medicine or cream.
How to use econazole cream
Before you start the treatment, read the manufacturer's printed information leaflet from inside the pack. It will give you more information about econazole and how to apply it.
Wash and dry the infected area of skin before you apply econazole. You will need to use the cream regularly for a few weeks. Once all signs of your infection have gone, continue to use it for a further one or two weeks, as this will help to prevent the infection from coming back.
If you have been given econazole cream to treat a skin infection, apply a small amount of the cream to the affected area twice each day (ideally, in the morning and the evening). Rub it in gently.
If you are using econazole cream to treat a nail infection, apply the cream to the infected nail once a day, and then cover the area with a plaster or similar dressing.
Getting the most from your treatment
Remember to wash your hands carefully after using econazole, as this will help to prevent the infection from spreading to other parts of your body. Also, use a separate towel to other people until your infection clears up.
Fungal infections often occur in warm, moist areas of the body. After washing or showering, make sure that all areas of your skin are dried well, particularly areas such as skin folds and between your toes.
As a guide, infections such as athlete's foot usually clear up within a week or so of treatment, although infections affecting some other areas of the body can take slightly longer. If there are no signs of improvement within two weeks of using econazole, you should make an appointment to see your doctor for advice.
Can econazole cream cause problems?
Econazole is unlikely to cause any serious side-effects. It can cause some irritation when it is used at first, and a few people experience mild allergic-type reactions (such as redness and itching). If you experience these or any other symptoms, speak with your doctor or pharmacist for further advice.
How to store econazole cream
Keep all medicines out of the reach and sight of children.
Store in a cool, dry place, away from direct heat and light.
Important information about all medicines
This preparation is for use on the skin only. If someone swallows some of it, go to the accident and emergency department of your local hospital. Take the container with you, even if it is empty.
This medicine is for you. Never give it to other people even if their condition appears to be the same as yours.
Do not keep out-of-date or unwanted medicines. Take them to your local pharmacy which will dispose of them for you.
If you have any questions about this medicine ask your pharmacist.
Did you find this information useful? yes no
Thanks for your feedback!
Why not subscribe to the newsletter?
Email address *
We'd love to send you our articles and latest news by email, giving you the best opportunity to stay up to date with expert written health and lifestyle content.
By clicking 'Subscribe' you agree to our Terms and conditions and Privacy policy.
Subscribe
Thanks for your feedback. if you would like to report a specific issue with this page, please visit our feedback page.
Thank you, we just sent a survey email to confirm your preferences.
Further reading and references
Manufacturer's PIL, Pevaryl® 1% Topical Cream; Janssen-Cilag Ltd, The electronic Medicines Compendium. Dated June 2015.
British National Formulary 74th Edition (Sep 2017); British Medical Association and Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, London.
Related Information
Dermatophytosis (Tinea Infections)
Miconazole for fungal skin infections (Daktarin)
Fungal Groin Infection (Tinea Cruris)
Clotrimazole for fungal skin infections (Canesten)
Terbinafine tablets (Lamisil)
View all
amy10356
Join the discussion on the forums
Health Tools
Feeling unwell?
Assess your symptoms online with our free symptom checker.
Start symptom checker
Article Information
Last Reviewed 11 October 2017
Next Review 10 October 2020
Document ID 13829 (v3)
Author Michael Stewart
Peer reviewer Sid Dajani
The information on this page is written and peer reviewed by qualified clinicians.
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up