Nicotine (vaping or patches) | Migraine.com
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Forums
Complementary Alternatives Therapies
Nicotine (vaping or patches)
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
By Vapor July 4, 2015 at 1:32 pm
Just wanted to share my experience because I, like others, got to be very desperate until about 3 years ago when i finally made a breakthrough. I have had migraines for over 55 years(since 10 years old) and in later years also developed chronic daily headaches of less severity than the migraine but actually more disabling because of the frequency. Was in a sorry state. I tried everything preventative over the years and nothing worked(except maybe magnesium a little). Triptans helped my migraines but obviously could not take them for daily headache. Also i was taking one triptan a week on average and they caused side effects. Anyway my headaches are 95% less now (been ok now for about 3 years) and i very seldom take a triptan – an occasional ibuprofen is all i seem to need.
The solution for me was nicotine. I use e-cigarettes rather than tobacco but patches, lozenges etc would probably still work. In fact i think tobacco rather than pure nicotine could even make things worse so best avoided.
Will not work for everyone but if you are desperate like i was then maybe worth giving it a try. It works for me as a preventative (i.e will not cure a headache once started).
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk July 19, 2015 at 6:26 pm Moderator
Hi Vapor,
Thanks for sharing and I’m glad to hear you’ve seen a reduction in your migraine frequency and severity. I can tell you for many of us nicotine is a strong migraine trigger – but I’m happy you’ve found relief.
Nancy
reply
By Vapor July 20, 2015 at 4:20 am
Hi Nancy,
For me indeed tobacco was a trigger i.e. cigarettes but in my case in turned out that it was the other constituents of the tobacco and not the nicotine – maybe the carbon monoxide. But in any case i am sure nicotine itself would be a trigger for some people. Migraine causation seems to be very complicated. Over the years i was prescribed a number of drugs which the doctors and web sites claim have worked as preventatives for many people e.g. amiltryptamine, topiramate etc. These medicines made me immediately very ill after one small dose !
So its a case of what works for you as an individual.
reply
By tallguywithmigraine January 8, 2018 at 11:44 pm
Hello Vapor,
Thanks for your post. Your migraine condition sounds very similar to mine, so I am very interested to hear about your experience using nicotine for relief. How often do you use the e-cig? And for how long does each session last?
Thanks,
Sean
reply
By Ronan January 9, 2018 at 11:34 am
It most likely is the tobacco. Cigarettes are full of chemicals.
reply
By Vapor January 9, 2018 at 11:53 am
Hi,
I used an e-cig on a daily basis and throughout the day – pretty much like a tobacco smoker would do with cigarettes. But of course you only get the nicotine and not the hundreds of other chemicals in tobacco. Nicotine is a vaso-constrictor. In other words it constricts or narrows the blood vessels. My notion is that it is this property that helps as a preventative against my migraines. Triptans which also work for me are vaso-constrictors and it has been thought for some time that vaso-dilation (the opposite of vaso constriction) is involved in the causation of migraine. It mayalso be that the nicotine helps prevent fluctuations in blood pressure which is also thought to be a factor in migraine but that is just pure speculation.
Anyway as an update after around 4 years i have now stopped the e-cigs (stopped about 8 months ago) and so far the headaches have not returned. Dont know how long though before i have to start again.
Hope this helps
reply
By tallguywithmigraine February 5, 2018 at 12:27 pm
Hello Vapor,
Thanks very much for sharing your experience. I wanted to give you an update on my results using nicotine to treat my chronic migraines during the past 20 days. I’ve had chronic migraines for the past 14 years and have tried every treatment available including botox, migraine surgery, countless preventative medications, and non-traditional therapies such as acupuncture, chiropractic, etc. Prior to starting nicotine I was having to use abortive medications (triptans) on 4 out of every 10 days. During the past 20 days using nicotine, I’ve had to use abortive meds twice.
I’m sure hoping and praying these good results hold up over time!!! For me, the best method of nicotine administration seems to be the nasal spray, which I use every 2-3 hours during the day. I also tried using nicotine patches and lozenges, but these didn’t work well. I haven’t tried e-cigarettes.
Thanks again for your post, and I’ll try to keep you updated periodically.
– Sean
reply
By Vapor February 7, 2018 at 5:57 am
Hi,
Glad to hear that it is helping. I had been a smoker when i was younger so the e-cigs was natural for me but i should not think that it matters what method is used.
I too tried many, many solutions (though not botox or surgery). The other thing i tried which worked somewhat was magnesium. you can buy a magnesium oil or something like that which you spray onto the skin. This works much better than magnesium tablets.
Hope you continue to improve
Geoff
reply
By ssmaoss May 18, 2018 at 12:02 pm
In my case i started smoking when i was 20 and started with migraine at 24, after 8 years smoking i decided to switch to vaping. My migraines decreased a lot, and also the pain involved, i think that the lack of oxygen when somebody smokes is a main factor about the headache level. Now i’m wondering if droping the amount of nicotine i consume every day would work to reduce even more the migraine problems.
reply
Join the conversation! Log in or create an account.
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.