Wellness Way Chiropractic » Treating Hip Osteoarthritis Without Surgery or Drugs
Call Us: 289-337-1657
Home
About
Dr. Linsay Way
Our Office
Pediatric Chiropractic
Geriatric Chiropractic
Sports Chiropractic
Headache/Migraine Treatment
Wellness Care
Services
Chiropractic Adjustments
Spinal Decompression Therapy
Shockwave Therapy
Appointments
Testimonials
Blog
FAQ
Location/Contact
Treating Hip Osteoarthritis Without Surgery or Drugs
Home / Blog / Uncategorized / Treating Hip Osteoarthritis Without Surgery or Drugs
September 28, 2016 Linsay Way Uncategorized 1 Back Pain, Burlington Chiropractor, Chiropractic, Nutrition
One of the most common joint disorders and the leading cause of disability in adults is osteoarthritis, a disease that affects an estimated 27 million Americans. Previous studies have found that weight loss can decrease the frequency of knee dysfunction and disability in individuals with osteoarthritis, but until recently there has been limited research on the effectiveness of regular exercise or weight loss as a method of treatment for hip OA. A new research initiative, involving 35 adults diagnosed with hip osteoarthritis, has been gathering evidence for the effectiveness of exercise and weight loss for overweight or obese patients with hip OA.
The subjects participated in an 8-month long doctor-managed weight-loss and exercise program. Over the course of the study, the participants reported on levels of physical function, pain, and walking ability. These measures were used to determine the success of the treatment programs. At the end of the 8-month program, the researchers reported an average 32.6% improvement in physical function, along with considerable improvements in pain levels, range of motion and walking ability.
The results provide promising preliminary support for the effectiveness of weight loss and regular exercise as treatment for osteoarthritis of the hip. Combining weight loss and exercise therapy with chiropractic adjustments, another non-medical way to ease hip pain, may be one of the best options for those suffering with hip osteoarthritis. Previous research has shown that 83% of patients with pain caused by hip osteoarthritis improved within nine chiropractic treatments.
Burlington chiropractor Dr. Linsay Way can help to determine the cause of your hip pain and develop a personalized treatment plan that may include chiropractic adjustments, exercise, ultrasound therapy, soft tissue mobilization, stretching, massage therapy, or other forms of care. These natural choices for treating hip dysfunction can help osteoarthritis sufferers avoid the risk and expense of drugs and surgery.
References
Paan N, et al. Effect of Exercise and Weight Loss in individuals Who Have Hip Osteoarthritis and Are Overweight or Obese: A Prospective Cohort Study. Physical Therapy 2012; doi: 10.2522/​ptj.20110418.
Brantingham JW, Globe GA, Cassa TK. A single group pretest-posttest design using full kinetic chain manipulative therapy with rehabilitation in the treatment of 18 patients with hip OA. Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapy 2012; 33(6): 445-57.
Related Posts via Taxonomies
Chiropractic Effective In Resolving Cardiac Problems
Can Chiropractic Help Ear Infections?
Facts About Spine Treatments
Research Shows: Proactive Chiropractic Care Helps Prevent Sports Injuries
Cycling: Preventing Back, Neck and Joint Pain With Chiropractic Care
Reasons To See A Chiropractor: Chiropractic Care Improves Quality of Sleep
Consumer Reports Ranks Chiropractic #1 for Back Pain
9 Reasons To See A Chiropractor: #1
Which Treatments Are Most Effective For Headaches?
Too Much Time On Twitter & Facebook Can Cause Back Pain
About the author
Linsay Way
Dr. Linsay Way is a chiropractor in Milwaukee, WI. Recognized for her expertise in treating and training athletes in the Milwaukee, West Allis, Greenfield, Waukesha and New Berlin areas, Dr. Way's family practice is open to patients of all ages and conditions. Dr. Linsay loves helping her patients develop healthy habits through a lifestyle that embraces good nutrition, proper exercise and good spinal care.
One Response to Treating Hip Osteoarthritis Without Surgery or Drugs
Chloe Wallace April 28, 2013
Healthy living is always the key to a good life. Thank you for sharing this!
Add a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Name *
Email *
Website
Your Comments
This blog uses premium CommentLuv. Enable CommentLuv?
Click a date to request an appointment