"Depression and Exercise: What's The Secret?"
“What's the secret on depression and exercise?”
The 'secret' on depression and exercise is out! Thanks to the medical research of psychologist James Blumenthal, PhD, and colleagues at Duke University, we know exactly how powerful the link between depression and exercise. What you do with your body affects your head!
This is fabulous news for you if you want to move away from depending on drugs to relieve your depression.
"Aerobic exercise can produce substantial improvement in mood in patients with major depressive disorders in a short time." (Dimeo, Freie M.D. - 2001 - Universitaet Berlin, Benjamin Franklin Medical Center, Department of Sports Medicine, Berlin, Germany)
Consider also this important quote on depression and exercise...
“Exercise may be the most underrated and yet the most important behavioral strategy to recommend to clients. Walking is so easy, yet few people realize its importance. A 20-minute walk three times a week is beneficial to health in many ways.” – Zunkel, Gretchen M. RN, Psy NP, PhD,(Depressive Disorders: Treatment With Nonpharmacological Alternatives / Complimentary Health Practice Review, 2003)
Depression and exercise truly don't mix!
“Do I have to start jogging?”
In her 2002 book, Move your body, tone your mood, psychologist Kate Hays, PhD reported that for many people, walking, running, or swimming is helpful, but some people value yoga/pilates. Others feel emotionally as well as physically strengthened by weight lifting.
"How do you experiment with your depression and exercise?"
“When I suffered from depression, I started to walk at least 20 minutes a day and boy what a difference even that little bit made! Then, once I was able to move beyond this, I added other exercise like lifting small weights, and playing Badminton weekly at the community adult drop-in centre. Now I am up to walking at least an hour per day, the occasional run and weekly adult mixed soccer!”- Merri Ellen, your friendly web-editor.
"What is the ideal depression and exercise plan you should work towards with the help of your doctor?"
Research suggests that 3x per week, getting 35 minutes of aerobic exercise each time is a powerful cure for depression.
>> Now, before you get discouraged - out of my own depression, I managed to achieve this. There's no reason you can't do it too. I'll share with you my secret to help you get started...
"How do you start a successful exercise plan?"
Good question. The better question is, "How do you start and STICK with a depression and exercise plan?" The answer? You need a coach. When I was an aerobics and fitness instructor in college, I was also a personal coach. As a result, I had the pleasure of helping my fellow college classmates lose that freshman 15 and SEE it happen before my eyes. On the days the girls were unmotivated, I was there, as their coach, to 'kick them in the butt' with a smile and a 'you can do it!' As a result, they reaped the rewards!
I too sometimes need a good kick in the butt especially after suffering from postpartum depression. That's why after having my first baby, I needed help with my depression and exercise plan. I called on the coaching of Tom, my fitness coach. I keep his manual saved on my desktop to refer to over and over.
When You Need Support
We all need a little help in motivation at times. Tom has also created an online fitness support community. This is great if you need that extra motivation to get moving to beat your depression through physical fitness.
There is hope! You are worth it!
Merri Ellen
Your friendly web editor
Related Articles
6 Powerful Ingredients to Cure Your Depression
Tom's Fitness Guide (opens in new window)
More depression articles…
Back to home from Depression and Exercise
Cited Research on Depression and Exercise
Babyak, M. A., Blumenthal, J. A., Herman, S., Khatri, P., Doraiswamy, P. M., Moore, K. A., Craighead, W. E., Baldewicz, T. T., & Krishnan, K. R. (2000). Exercise treatment for major depression: Maintenance of therapeutic benefit at 10 months. Psychosomatic Medicine, Vol. 62. pp. 633-638.
Blumenthal, J. A., Babyak, M.A., Moore, K. A., Craighead, W. E., Herman, S., Khatri, P., Waugh, R., Napolitano, M. A., Forman, L. M., Appelbaum, M., Doraiswamy, P. M., & Krishnan, K. R. (1999). Effects of exercise training on older patients with major depression. Archives of Internal Medicine, Vol. 159 pp. 2349-2356.
North, T. C., P. McCullagh, and Z. V. Tran. (1990). Effect of exercise on depression. Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews Vol. 18 pp. 379-415.
Zunkel, Gretchen M. RN, Psy NP, PhD. (2003) Depressive Disorders: Treatment With Nonpharmacological Alternatives. Complimentary Health Practice Review/ Depression and Exercise / http://bjsm.bmjjournals.com/cgi/content/abstract/35/2/114
Additional Sources on Depression and Exercise
Hays, K. F. (1999). Working it Out: Using Exercise in Psychotherapy. Washington, DC: APA.
Hays, K. F. (2002). Move your body, tone your mood. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger.
Johnsgard, K. W. (2004). Conquering Depression and Anxiety Through Exercise. New York: Prometheus.
Leith, L. M. (1998). Exercising your way to better mental health. Morgantown, WV: Fitness Information Technology.
Enjoy More Cure Depression Articles...
6 Steps Report on Curing Depression (What do the Medical Journals Reveal?) | What Depression Treatments Are Available? | Are There Natural Cures for Depression? | What Are The Symptoms of Depression?| What Are The Causes of Depression? | What Can I Do For My Postpartum Depression? | What Is Teenage Depression And Why Does It Happen? | What Self Help Can I Do for Depression Recovery? | How Best Do I Help A Loved One With Depression? | What Is Bipolar Depression? | Does Therapy Work For Depression Recovery? | What’s The Buzz on Omega 3s for Depression? | Does Light Therapy Work for Depression Recovery? | Does Exercise Affect Depression? | How Safe is Depression Medication? | What Are Some Basic Depression Action Steps? | | Is There a Depression Diet I Can Use? | "5 Facts You Need To Know About Depression"
Tell us what your biggest question on depression is. Help us help you!
Read more of our articles here...
Back to Home
Home
About Me (My Story)
Free E-Course*
User Success Stories
FAQs
Audio interview
Counselling HELP
Help For New Moms
Teenage Depression
For Care Givers
Depression Test
Diet?
Fish Oil
Forum
Webmaster
SiteMap
Search Site
Contact Us
Donate
[?]Subscribe To This Site
©2003-2018 cure-your-depression.com. All rights reserved. CLICK HERE TO READ OUR DISCLAIMER & PRIVACY POLICY Please note: This site uses Canadian English, eh? :)