My Blog - Diji Vaughan, M.D.,FAAP - Pediatrics for Family Health
Toggle navigation Menu
480-336-2815
602-734-5509
Request an Appointment
Location
Home
About Us
Allergy Services
Services
Insurance Plans Accepted
New Patients
Schedule an Appointment
Patient Portal
My Blog
Posts for tag: Fever in Children
Fever- Part 1
By Fever
April 19, 2012
Category: Symptoms
Tags: Fever in Children
Oh! Doc, her fever just won’t go away and keeps coming back!
An often heard comment in primary care settings, I daresay, globally! A study in the March issue of Pediatrics. 2011;127:580-587 led by researchers from the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on therapeutic use of medications came up with recommendations that challenges the instinctive approach to febrile illness most parents demonstrate when their children develop fever. Treatment of febrile children should focus on improving the child's comfort rather than bringing the temperature down to normal levels or preventing the onset of fever, according to the report.
Is the fever bad for her?
"Many parents administer antipyretics even when there is minimal or no fever, because they are concerned that the child must maintain a 'normal' temperature," the study authors note. "Fever, however, is not the primary illness but is a physiologic mechanism that has beneficial effects in fighting infection," they write. "There is no evidence that fever itself worsens the course of an illness or that it causes long-term neurologic complications." An individual needs to have an immune system functioning optimally at many levels to respond to the presence of an invading germ and fever often is one the responses mounted by the body during this process. There are other conditions where the patient age, or severity and pattern of the fever could be a cause for additional concerns and these should be addressed with your doctor.
My cousin had seizures with her fever when we were little, is this going to happen to my baby?
These researchers state, there is "no evidence that reducing fever reduces morbidity or mortality from a febrile illness" or that it decreases the recurrence of febrile seizures. Febrile seizures can occur in any child usually between ages 6 months to 6 years often when there’s a rapid rise in core body temperature. There are a few cases when these febrile seizures especially when recurrent and complex may be indicative of potential problems in the developing nervous systems in these children and merit further evaluation.
Her Daddy gave her a second dose of fever medication without asking me first, is she going to be okay?
The appropriate dosing for acetaminophen (Tylenol) is 10 to 15 mg/kg per dose given every 4 to 6 hours orally, which produces an antipyretic effect within 30 to 60 minutes in approximately 80% of children. The appropriate dosing for ibuprofen (Motrin) is 5-10 mg/kg per dose with 6 hourly to 8 hourly dosing. These dosages should determined by your physician.The dangers of excessive and inappropriate medication administration are real and proper communication among all care providers helps with adherence to treatment plan. Children, especially the very young often do not handle the consequences of dosing errors well. Tepid sponging with lukewarm water is a useful adjunct for fever management in concerned parents. When done appropriately, the evaporation of lukewarm water dabbed repeatedly on the skin, cools the extremities and gradually begins to decrease the core body temperature accordingly.
The study also emphasizes the importance of clear labeling, dosing, and proper storage of medications used to treat fever. It also warns against the use of combination therapy with acetaminophen and ibuprofen because this approach may place infants and children at increased risk for dosing errors and adverse outcomes.
0 Comment(s) Permalink
Subscribe to our RSS Feed
Archive:
2015
February (2)
Chickenpox Parties?
What I Wish Parents Knew About Medical Billing
2014
July (1)
Wet Wraps And Eczema Care
2013
July (1)
Do Zinc Supplements Cure the Cold?
May (2)
Breastfeeding and Formula Supplementation: What are the risks?
What's A Patient Portal?
April (1)
Nasal Allergies in Children
March (1)
Potty Training: A synopsis for parents
February (3)
Speech and Language Disorder: Stuttering
Food Allergies -Part 2
Food Allergies- Part 1
January (2)
Why vaccinate your children?
What is Bronchiolitis, Doc?
2012
December (3)
Nitrates in your water: state of the evidence
Vapor rub and cold symptoms
Drooling and teething
November (4)
CAM and my child's health
Video Games and Your Health
Colic- Part 2
Colic- Part I
October (1)
Too clean for your own good?
September (2)
Noisy Breathing in Newborns
Eye Discharge in the Newborn
August (2)
Newborn Sleep Patterns
Vaccinations- saves lives!
July (3)
Nasal Allergies in Infants
A perspective on building
Hand-foot-and-mouth disease
June (4)
Head shapes in the newborn- what to know
Breastfeeding, newborn growth and the early months
Pets and your health - Part 1
Breastfeeding is best for my baby! - why do I need vitamins?
May (7)
My baby has the cold and isn't feeding!
Sunscreens- which one do I choose?
Pain Control After Shots in Infants
Newborn Stool Patterns and Constipation
Sun Safety Tips
Bee Stings! What to do
Newborn Birth Marks
April (6)
Newborn Breathing
Humidifier Use
Pacifier Use and Breastfeeding
Am I too Clean?
Fever- Part 1
Follow Me, Folks!
Tags
ADHD (1)
Fever in Children (1)
Allergies (3)
Breastfeeding (1)
Home Remedies (1)
Sleep (1)
Newborn Skin Problems (1)
Insect Bites and Stings (1)
Sun Safety (2)
Constipation (1)
Vaccinations (2)
URI (1)
Vitamins for Newborn (1)
Pets that carry salmonella (1)
New growth curves for infants (1)
Skull Shapes in Newborns (1)
Febrile Viral Illnesses with oral and feet ra (1)
building (1)
Measles (1)
Newborn Sleep Concerns (1)
Eye drainage (1)
Eye discharge (1)
breathing problems (1)
hygiene hypothesis (1)
infantile colic (1)
fussy infants (1)
crying infants (1)
fussiness and gas in newborns (1)
colic symptoms (1)
simethicone (1)
lactase enzyme supplements (1)
Obesity in children (1)
video games (1)
gaming violence (1)
behavioral problems with video games (1)
alternative medicine (1)
CAM (1)
non phamacologic therapy (1)
teething problems (1)
drooling (1)
vapor rub (1)
cold treatment in children (1)
water contamination by nitrates (1)
nitrates and pregnancy (1)
health effects of nitrates (1)
methemoglobinemia (1)
colds in infants (1)
bronchiolitis (1)
wheezing (1)
rsv (1)
influenza (1)
asthma (2)
URI in children (1)
apnea (1)
pertussis outbreaks (1)
immunizations (1)
public health (1)
school health (1)
measles outbreaks (1)
food allergy (1)
IgE testing (1)
allergic (1)
epinephrine (1)
food allergens (1)
vomiting and allergy (1)
anaphylaxis and food allergies (1)
Speech delay (1)
Language problems (1)
stuttering (1)
stammering (1)
verbal apraxia (1)
Toilet training (1)
Potty training for children (1)
allergies in childhood (1)
seasonal allergies (1)
animal dander (1)
house dust mite (1)
smoke and allergy (1)
SMS with doctors (1)
health portal (1)
health records online (1)
formula and your newborn (1)
breastfeeding supplementation (1)
success in breastfeeding (1)
zinc (1)
cold remedies (1)
zinc lozenges (1)
Chicken pox (1)
Categories:
Behavioral Health (3)
Symptoms (7)
Food and Nutrition (5)
Skin Problems (2)
Injuries (1)
Environmental Safety (2)
Newborn (11)
Environmental Health (4)
Infectious Diseases (4)
Perspectives (3)
blog
Twitter
Facebook
Copyright © MH Sub I, LLC dba Officite
Disclaimer
Patient Privacy
Site Map