Hair Loss in Men on MedicineNet.com
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/hair loss in men article
Hair Loss in Men (Androgenetic Alopecia)
Reviewed on 6/13/2018 12:00:00 AM
Medical Author: Alan Rockoff, MD
Medical Editors: Frederick Hecht, MD, FAAP, FACMG and William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
Some men never go "bald" but everyone's hair thins out over the years. The term androgenetic refers to the fact that common balding requires both male hormones (androgens) and a genetic tendency to lose hair. Because there are many genes involved, however, you can't look at your parents and know how much hair you will lose or how fast you will lose it. In particular, the idea that hair loss is passed down from the mother's side of the family is folklore, not fact.
The problem of hair loss has resulted in many other myths and misconceptions. For instance, wearing hats does not "choke off" hair roots and promote baldness. Likewise, longer hair does not put a strain on roots.
Once you think your hair is thinning, it's worth a check to be sure. Even men who never lose much hair develop some receding at both temples during adolescence. Boys' hairlines are straight across; adult men have more of an M shape.
Many conditioners, shampoos, vitamins, and other products, as well as procedures involving lasers and heat, claim to help hair grow in unspecified ways. These are harmless but useless and not worth the investment. To slow down hair loss, there are just two medically proven options:
Minoxidil (Rogaine): This topical application is over the counter. No prescription is required. It works best on the crown, less on the frontal region. Available as a 2% solution, minoxidil (available as generic as well) may grow a little hair, but it's better at holding onto what's still there. There are few side effects with Rogaine. The main problem with this treatment is the need to keep applying it twice a day, and most men get tired of it after awhile. This drug also comes in a higher strength, 5%, which may be somewhat more effective. Side effects of minoxidil include occasional irritation as well as unwanted hair growth on the face, especially in the 5% concentration. Internal side effects (headaches, ankle swelling, chest pain) are rare.
Finasteride (Propecia): This is a lower-dose version of a drug that is used to shrink the prostates in middle-aged men. Propecia is taken once a day. Studies show that Propecia slows hair loss effectively and tends to grow more hair as well over time. It's works best for men who still have enough hair to retain. Side effects are uncommon and include decreased libido and difficulties with erection and ejaculation. The rate at which these occur is only slightly higher than the frequency in people not on the drug. They usually disappear when the drug is stopped and may go away even if Propecia is continued. Taking Propecia once a day is easier than applying Rogaine, though some men prefer not to take a medication long term. There is at present no generic version of Propecia; cost varies depending on the pharmacy, from about $60/month for a three-month supply and higher.
Stopping either Rogaine or Propecia puts you back where your hair loss would have been without them, but not worse off.
Besides these medical treatments, there are various ways to camouflage hair that has already gone. These include hairpieces or hair-weaving processes. Toupees require tape or other ways to keep them from sliding off, and they also stretch and oxidize. Hair weaves loosen and need periodic restyling.
Techniques for performing surgical procedures like scalp reduction and hair transplants have improved over the years, producing better, more natural results. Transplant surgeons do their best to use hair that is not genetically programmed to fall out later. Taking Propecia after a transplant also helps to retain hair.
Shaving the scalp has been fashionable and is an option other than trying to grow more hair.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth