● Selenium 硒元素 - ★ 優活 健康網 ★ Living Well Website
★ 優活 健康網 ★ Living Well Website
首頁
● ER
● 台灣 美食悠遊網
● 台灣旅遊 導覽網
● 生活智慧網
● 台灣 消費者網站
★ 中國 旅遊網
美食
美食
● 火鍋美食 介紹 - Hot Pot
● (麵食)- 牛肉麵、炸醬麵、拉麵 - Noodles
● 豆腐類 美食 - Tofu Dishes
● 香菇類 美食菜餚 - Mushroom
● 馬鈴薯、土豆菜餚 - Potatoes
● 潤餅卷, 春捲- Popiah, Egg Roll
● 台灣便當飲食, 台鐵便當- Boxed meal
● 台灣 滷肉飯 Braised Pork Rice
● 台灣料理- 油飯、糯米 Glutinous oil rice
● 日式料理- 蛋包飯, 關東煮 Japan cuisine
● 日式料理 - 丼物 (蓋澆飯) (Donburi)
購物
▼ 商圈 ===> >
● 台北市 西門町 商圈 Ximending B. District
● 台北市 信義商圈- Taipei 101 Shopping
● 台北市 五分埔商圈- Wufenpu Garment
● 台北 重慶南路書店街 Taipei Bookstores
● 台北光華商場- 數位新天地- Guanghua
▼ 經濟 ===> >
● 懂程式，會美編，在台新金只值21K
● 師大夜市餐廳經營 - 我賺的錢 都給房東了
● 越勞中國月賺900美元,偷渡來台只領22K
● 美國醫療費用世界最昂貴- US medi-cost
● 餐廳我賺的 都給房東了- High Rent
● 經營
● 台北101 購物中心-Taipei 101 shopping
● 團購 -- Group Buying
● 蘋果,宏達電,三星, 手機大戰- htc Apple
● 台灣團購網騙很大 Groupon、Gomaji
● 中國大陸團購分析-Group buying in China
飲食
● 糖份 - Sugar : The Bitter Truth
● 好吃美食與健康危險- 警訊 - Food risk
● 常吃泡麵有害身體健康
● 當心水果食物中毒 - Food Poisoning
● 不安全食物: 壽司被評為第一 - Sushi
● 一舉兩得 - 外食族抗漲帶便當
● 苦茶油 - Tea Seed Oil
● 隔夜菜食用有何可能問題？
● 長期不吃肉竟早衰失智
● 飲食與癌症關係密切 - Diet and Cancer
● 不含麩質飲食法的爭議- Gluten-free diet
● 吃深海魚 小心汞中毒- Mercury poison
● 老人愛管灌飲食, 恐營養失衡- Elderly
● 手搖飲當水喝！兩壯年男中風 半邊癱瘓
保健
▼ 運動 ===> >
● 運動健身好處多- Exercise for Health
● 運動讓你每個細胞都健康 - Exercise
● 慢跑運動 - Jogging Exercise
● 活動：要活就要運動 - Exercise is Key
● 有氧健身操課訓練 - Aerobics for health
● 養生之道- 勿喝冰冷飲料- No cold drink
● 小米, 燕麥, 糙米煮粥吃 改善胃潰瘍, 發炎
● 網傳留言：亂吃東西中年以後會很痛苦
● 葡萄糖胺食品保健？毒物醫師斥無效
● 山竹果汁 - Mangosteen Juice
● 滿街飲料店, 嚴重傷害台灣人健康-Hazard
● 牛初乳奶粉不能直接用作嬰兒主食
● 趁一切還來得及- 養生之道- Not too late
● 國際藥聞- 醫學期刊: 別浪費錢買維他命
● 顧他命可緩化療, 但沒療效- Glutamine
保健
● (三高) - 高血壓, 高血糖, 高血脂
● 油漱法 Oil Pulling - 荒謬的保健法
● 101歲劈腿爺,頭能頂地,腿可繞頸- 101 yr
● 阿金博士減肥法 - Dr. Atkin's Diet
● 最流行九種減肥飲食法- Weight loss diet
● 膳食纖維的功能與重要 - Dietary Biber
● 大燕麥片降膽固醇- Oatmeal
● 清朝 乾隆皇帝的高壽秘訣
● 冥想默思 (Meditation)
● Health Benefits of Meditation
● Unblock cholesterol plaqued arteries
營養
● 維生素缺乏症 - Vitamin Deficiency
● 維生素A 缺乏症 - Vitamin A Deficiency
● 維生素B1 (硫胺)缺乏 - Vitamin B1
● 維生素B2 (核黃素) - Vitamin B2
● 維生素B3 (菸鹼酸) - Vitamin B3
● 維生素B5 (pantothenic acid)
● 維生素B6
● 維生素B9 (葉酸) 缺乏- Folic Acid
● 維生素B12 缺乏症- Vit B12 Deficiency
● 維生素B12 - Vitamin B12
● 維生素C 缺乏症 - Vitamin C Deficiency
● 維生素D 缺乏症 - Vitamin D Deficiency
● 維生素E 缺乏症 - Vitamin E Deficiency
● 維生素 K - Vitamin K
● 補鉀降低心腦血管疾病風險 - Potassium
● 補鈣不能盲目，腎不好補鈣會傷害心臟
營養
● 魚油 - Fish oil
● 魚肝油 - Cod Liver Oil
● 二十二碳六烯酸 - DHA
● 水果的營養 - Fruit Nutrition
● 抗氧化劑 Anti-Oxidant
● 薑黃素(Curcumin) - 咖哩 Curry
● 人體缺乏維生素B2與得患癌症有關
● 中老年人喝牛奶能降低心血管疾病
● Milk Myth - 牛奶迷思
● Nutrition value- Juice vs. Concentrate
● Benefits of Orange Juice
● Nutrition & Food - Google Tech Talks
● Selenium 硒元素
健康
▼ Health ===> >
● Vitamin E Tied to Prostate Cancer Risk
● Nutrition and Immune System
● Our Microbes in Us
● Nutrients that Boost Immunity
● Exercise and Aging
● Leg Cramps While Sleeping
● 營養健康補品 - 初乳 - Colostrum
● 關於蜂蜜 - 一個真實的故事 - Honey Story
● 科學家研究咖啡因, 發現利弊參半-Coffee
● 震驚世界的醫學發現!Awesome discovery
● 十大健康惡習- Top 10 unhealthy habits
● 服用維他命有助健康? 效果具爭議-Vitamin
● 健康飲食就要從飲食中少油做起- Less oil
● 手腳冰冷，恐潛藏健康問題-
● 猛灌紅茶不喝水，壯男中風半癱
● 如何減肥瘦身 - Lose Body Weight
● 肌肉減少症- 骨骼肌減少症- Sarcopeni
● 怎樣測試自己是酸性體質或鹼性體質？
● 烘烤炸澱粉食物易生致癌物
● 枸杞與眼睛健康
● 瀋陽男1夜喝20瓶啤酒, 胰臟溶解只剩一層膜
健康
● 人體胃的生理功能與病症
● 小腸的生理功能與病變
● 大腸的生理功能與病變
● 如何提升人體免疫力 - Enhance Immunity
● 保衛人體健康免疫系統- Immunity
● 穀胱甘肽- Glutathione- (Antioxidant)
● 咳嗽3週才會好 別急吃抗生素
● 如何保持你的腸道健康 - Healthy Guts
● 緩解疼痛的策略: 雙臂交叉？Cross arms
● 睡眠改善高血糖-Sleep lower blood sugar
● 心因性猝死,1個月前會出現徵兆- Cardiac
● 預防髖部骨折，補充鈣與維生素D- Pelvis
● 肉類攝取與罹患癌症的風險
● 雞蛋與第二型糖尿病發生機率
● 鉀離子與身體健康 - K+
● 姿勢性低血壓 Orthostatic Hypotension
檢查
▼ 驗血 ===> >
● 驗血 - 全血細胞計數 - CBC
● 癌症指數的正確閱讀
● 抗體 Antibody (Immunoglobulin)
● Serum Free Light Chains -血清遊離輕鏈
● Beta 2-Microglobulin (β2-M)
● 膀胱(內視)鏡檢查 - Cystoscopy
● 大腸(內視)鏡檢查與結腸瘜肉
● 超音波掃瞄檢查- Ultrasound scan
● 孕婦超音波- Pregnancy ultrasound
● 心臟病檢查
● 肌電圖 檢查- Electromyography
● 腎功能檢查 - Kidney Function Tests
● 紅血球與貧血 (RBC & Anemia)
● 尿液分析檢驗 - Urine Test
● 胸部X光檢查 - Chest X-ray
● 血壓與血壓測量 - Blood Pressure
● 泌尿科常做的檢查
病症
▼ 胃腸病 ===> >
● 胃食道逆流病 - GERD, Reflux Disease
● 慢性胃炎 - Chronic Gastritis
● 胃黏膜-腸上皮化生 Intestinal Metaplasia
● 非潰瘍性消化不良- Nonulcer dyspepsia
● 下一個國民病大腸癌? 如何發現徵兆?
● 胰臟炎與胰臟疾病 - Pancreatitis
▼ 癌症 ===> >
● 癌症免疫療法- Cancer Immunotherapy
● 多發性骨髓瘤 - Multiple Myeloma
● 胰臟癌 - Pancreatic Cancer
● 淋巴瘤 - Lymphoma
● 泌尿道癌症
● 膀胱癌 - Bladder Cancer
● 肝癌 - Liver Cancer
● 食道癌 - Esophageal Cancer
▼ 症狀 >
● 血尿
● 阿茲海默氏症 Alzheimer D. (老年癡呆症)
● 如何預防老年癡呆症 -
● 如何預防失智症 -
● 重肌無力症 - Myasthenia Gravis
● What's Causing Your Memory Loss?
● Level of GFR and Anemia
● 低鈉血症 - Hyponatremia
● 體液與血鈉異常之處置
● 低血鉀症 - hypokalemia
● 高血鉀症 - hyperkalemia
● 低鉀血症和高鉀血症
● 酸血症 - Acidemia - 代謝性酸中毒
● 低鈣血症 - Hypocalcemia
醫療
▼ 健保 ===> >
● 中央健康保險署 - 台灣二代健保
● 台灣二代健保
● 台灣全民健保與急診醫療 - ER
● 健保藥費核價離譜- 同成分藥劑,價差逾2倍
● 全民健保老人整合門診，家屬大多不知道
● 台灣的醫療安全問題 -
▼ 心臟病 ===> >
● 心肌梗塞 - Heart Attack Signs
● 心臟病 體外反搏治療- EECP Therapy
● 體外「心臟震波」治療冠心病 - CSWT
▼ 眼科 ===> (眼睛健康與保養) >
● 中老年人眼睛與視力問題- Eye disease
● 眼睛 白內障 (Cataract)
● 眼睛 白內障的治療 - Cataract
● (好書推薦)：最新天星英漢百科醫學辭典
● 乳房腫塊以為瘀青, 推拿推到癌細胞擴散
● 葡萄糖胺療效淺，破除維骨力神話
● 腳跟疼痛？千萬別輕忽
● 中醫經方療效不顯，專家: 中藥用量該多大
● 你相信「中醫」有多少療效？
● 多發感覺運動神經病變-polyneuropathy
● 腳麻走不動？你可能需要神經傳導檢查
● 成大揪肝硬化元凶，治肝大突破
● 臨床打針注射技術
● 鼻胃管 - Nasogastric Tube
醫療
● 血尿 Hematuria
● 泌尿道感染 - 膀胱炎- Cystitis
● 憂鬱症 - Depression (Mood)
● 流感重症合併，肺炎感染驟增
● 老人骨質疏鬆症, 逾半數有骨折- Fracture
● 骨質疏鬆症與防治 - Osteoporosis
● 安慰藥效果 - Placebo Effect
● 帕金森氏症 - Parkinson's Disease
● 帕金森氏症治療 - Parkinson Treatment
● 帕金森氏症與睡眠失常
● Glutathione
● 達文西機械手臂手術- da Vinci Surgery
● 高血壓治療
腎病
▼ 腎病藥物 ===> >
● 活性炭 克裏美淨(Kremezin) 效果如何
● 活性炭 克裏美淨(Kremezin)效果不明顯
● 吉多利錠- Keto-analogues for CKD
● Sodium Bicarbonate Heals Kidney D.
● Sodium Bicarbonate Cures Cancer
● 腎血管肌肉脂肪瘤
● 泌尿道感染 尿道炎 基本知識
● 如何保護你的腎臟-Protect your kidneys
● 腎臟微循環與其內在調節 (急診醫學)
● 人體內水與電解質的平衡 (急診醫學)
● 腎臟炎的(飲食)治療處理
● 腎臟病患者飲食原則與禁忌- Kidney D.
● 腎臟病與蛋白質的攝取
● 如何保護腎臟？遠離慢性腎臟病
● 腎衰竭患者的飲食
● 逆轉腎！低蛋白搭酮酸胺延緩洗腎
● 洗腎病患營養與飲食原則
● (腎臟) 透析 (Dialysis) -- 洗腎
● Pentoxifylline 與慢性腎臟病
● Healthy Foods for Kidney Disease
● How to delay the onset of dialysis
貧血
● 貧血與診斷 - Anemia and Diagnosis
● 貧血與治療 - Anemia and Treatment
● 搶救貧血大作戰 - Fighting Anemia
● 缺鐵性貧血與治療- Iron-Defici anemia
● 貧血與慢性腎臟病- Anemia in CKD
● 貧血可能的疾病風險
● 輸血 相關知識- Blood Transfusion
● Anemia and EPO Treatment
RA
● 類風濕性關節炎 - Rheumatoid Arthritis
● 類風濕性關節炎- Rheumatoid Arthritis
● 過敏免疫風濕科- 常用藥物- A.I.R. Drug
● 免疫調節藥- Methotrexate, MTX 至善錠
● Methotrexate Toxicity- Treatment
● 免疫調節藥- 磺胺藥- Sulfasalazine, SSZ
● 免疫調節藥- Hydroxychloroquine, HCQ
● 類固醇 藥物 - Steroids
● 生物製劑 - Anti-TNF Biologic Agents
● 生物製劑- 復邁 (Humira, Adalimumab)
● 懷孕與類風濕關節炎藥物
● C反應蛋白 C-Reactive Protein- CRP
● 紅血球沉降率 - ESR
● 類風濕因子 Rheumatoid Factor (RF)?
● 抗環瓜氨酸抗體 - Anti-CCP
● 食物療法與類風濕關節炎-Diet & RA
● 食物與類風濕關節炎- Food & RA
● Natural Remedies for RA
● Vitamins, Minerals, and RA
藥物
● Acetylcysteine-富泌舒Fluimucil, Actein
● 家庭常備藥物 - Family Kept Medicine
● 小護士 - 曼秀雷敦 - Mentholatum
● 乙醯胺酚-普拿疼止痛藥-Acetaminophen
● 撒隆巴斯類 鎮痛貼片- Salonpas
● 抗生素藥品 - Antibiotics
● 麥格斯口服液- Megestrol Acetate
● 萬靈藥 - 阿斯匹靈 - Aspirin
● 藥物不良反應 - Adverse Drug Reaction
● 葡萄柚汁可能對藥物的影響- Grapefruit
● 藥物含鈉造成的不良作用
● 瀉劑 - Bisacodyl
● 毒物 戴奧辛 - Dioxin
● Beware of the Prolia (injection) Drug.
● 7 Drugs Whose Dangerous Risks
藥物
● 抗生素 賜復力生 Ceflexin - Cephalosporin
● 抗生素 - Levofloxacin (Cravit)
● 雙嘧達莫 - 潘生丁- Persantine
● 諾安命 Novamin (Prochlorperazine)
● 抗凝血劑- Warfarin 可邁丁- Coumadin
● 高血壓藥- 脈優- Amlodipine- Norvasc
● 高血壓藥 (道福寧) Dophilin
● 類固醇 藥物 - Steroid Drugs
● 消化性潰瘍藥 - Rabeprazole (Pariet)
● 消化性潰瘍藥- Esomerprazole (Nexium)
● 斷血炎 (Transamin) - 傳明酸
● 除鐵能 - Deferoxamine (Desferal)
● Pentoxifylline 與慢性腎臟病
● 帕金森病用藥 Madopar 美道普
● 帕金森病用藥 Requip 力必平(Ropinirole)
●
牙科
● 正確的刷牙方式 - Teeth Brushing
● 牙周病預防與治療-Periodontal disease
● 牙結石清除-洗牙-Scaling & root planing
● 牙痛的原因及應對方法 - Toothache
● 經常刷牙保持口腔清潔，有助於預防失智症
● 矯正牙齒時牙齦萎縮- Receding gum
● 牙齦萎縮與牙齒病症- Gum Recession
● 牙齒 根管治療術 - Root Canal
● 牙齒顯微根管治療術- Microendodontics
● 三叉神經痛誤以為牙痛,阿嬤沒牙才搞清楚
● 婦人痛失五顆牙！才知三叉神經痛作怪
● 資深牙醫的良心告白：能做假牙就不要植牙
● 牙痛和三叉神經痛怎麼分辨？
● 長期的不明原因的牙痛請注意牙隱裂
教育
●
● 觀光餐飲成為台灣技職院校熱門科系
● 台灣教育制度無助提升學生素質- Diploma
● 台灣大學教育泡沫化- Busted education
● 經濟搞成這樣很正常, 陸生: 文化大學弱爆了
● 台灣大學數量密度過高, 大學學歷沒價值
人物
● 台灣 企業家 經營之神 王永慶
● 台灣 企業家 宏達電 王雪紅 - Cher Wang
● 台灣 企業家 鴻海 郭台銘 - Terry Gou
● 中華民國 總統 馬英九 - Ma Ying-jeou
● 台灣 第一名模 - 林志玲 - Lin Chi-Ling
● 台灣特有的檳榔西施- Betel nut beauty
● 台灣新聞人物相片- Taiwan image
● 台灣 政治人物 婚外情
● 台灣 陳水扁的319事件
休閒
▼ 電影 ===> >
● 台北 電影院 Taipei Movie Theaters
● 台灣國語電影- 經典回顧- Movie Classic
● 台灣電影歷史介紹- Taiwan Movie History
● 2011台灣電影〈賽德克·巴萊〉
● 近年台灣電影 介紹
★ 外國(電影) 記錄影片
▼ 交通 ===> >
● 台北 捷運系統 - Metro Taipei
● 台灣 高速鐵路 - Taiwan HSR
● 台灣 中華航空 - China Airlines
● 台灣 長榮航空 - EVA Air
● 台灣 計程車 - Taiwan Taxi
● 台灣 遊覽車 - Taiwan Tour Bus
● 台灣重要傳統節日- Taiwan festivals
● 台灣廟會鋼管舞表演-Taiwan pole dance
● 中秋節在台灣如何變成烤肉節
● 台灣趣事笑話 集錦
● 郊外美景欣賞 -
● 環球小姐 選美 - Miss Universe
● 好萊塢 健美男星- Hollywood Fit Stars
● 2012台北世貿 新車大展-2012 Auto Show
● 世界服裝展台走秀-Runway fashion show
● 服裝設計展覽 - Fashion Design
● 台北服裝走秀 - Fashion Show Taipei
● 台北世貿中心- 資訊月 展覽
● 台灣展場 Show Girls
▼ 旅遊 ===>
連接
聯絡
● 台灣美食悠遊網- Taiwan Gourmet
● 台灣 旅遊網- Taiwan Tour Travel
● 生活 智慧網- Good Living Website
● 消費者 網站- Consumer Website
★ 大陸 神州網- China Tour Travel
● 台灣客 資訊網
★ 知識 技術網
● 快樂果 旅遊- Caolgo Tour & Travel
● 自行車 全聯網 -(1)
● 英文 學習網 (1)
★ 最新天星英漢百科醫學辭典
★ 醫學藥知網 - Medical Knowledge
現在位置 : 營養 > Selenium 硒元素
What Are Selenium Supplements? 硒元素補品
By Lauren Cox, Contributing writer | February 21, 2014 10:08am ET
(Selenium - Supplement Facts and Effects. LiveScience)
Selenium is one of the "essential" nutrients for humans, meaning that our bodies cannot make it, and so we have to get it from our diet. Without it the heart, joints, eyes, immune system or reproductive system can suffer. Yet humans only need to eat a trace of selenium every day, about 55 micrograms or millionths of a gram.
Selenium was discovered as an element in 1817 by the Swedish chemist Jöns Jacob Berzelius, who determined the atomics weights of many elements and developed a system of chemical symbols. It was first thought to be a toxin, but scientists determined that selenium was an essential mineral in the 1950s. By the 1960s doctors began researching selenium's possible tumor fighting properties in animals, according to the American Cancer Society.
Scientists now know selenium is necessary in the body's production of selenoproteins, a family proteins that contain selenium in the form of an amino acid. So far, 25 different selenoproteins in the body have been isolated, but only half of their functions have been identified, according to the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University.
Selenium supplements are popular, but do they work?
Selenium is one of the "essential" nutrients for humans, meaning that our bodies cannot make it, and so we have to get it from our diet. Without it the heart, joints, eyes, immune system or reproductive system can suffer. Yet humans only need to eat a trace of selenium every day, about 55 micrograms or millionths of a gram.
Selenium was discovered as an element in 1817 by the Swedish chemist Jöns Jacob Berzelius, who determined the atomics weights of many elements and developed a system of chemical symbols. It was first thought to be a toxin, but scientists determined that selenium was an essential mineral in the 1950s. By the 1960s doctors began researching selenium's possible tumor fighting properties in animals, according to the American Cancer Society.
Scientists now know selenium is necessary in the body's production of selenoproteins, a family proteins that contain selenium in the form of an amino acid. So far, 25 different selenoproteins in the body have been isolated, but only half of their functions have been identified, according to the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University.
Human and animal research has found selenoproteins are involved in embryo development, thyroid hormone metabolism, antioxidant defense, sperm production, muscle function and the immune system's response to vaccinations.
Where selenium is found
Plants grown in soil containing selenium convert it into a form that is usable to humans or animals. Soil around the world varies in its selenium concentration. The higher the concentration of selenium in soil, the higher the concentration of selenium in crops. Soil in Nebraska, South and North Dakota is especially rich in selenium, and people living in these areas typically have the highest dietary intake of selenium in the United States, according to the 2014 Harvard Health publication The Truth About Vitamins and Minerals.
Soil in some areas of China and Russia is naturally low in selenium. Selenium deficiencies in the Keshan region in northeast China were severe enough to spur a form of heart disease called cardiomyopathy, now called Keshan's disease. Chinese government programs to supplement people's diets with selenium in the 1970s greatly reduced cases of Keshan disease, according to the National Institutes of Health's Office of Dietary Supplements. Low selenium levels in China, Tibet and Siberia may play a role in a type of osteoarthritis called Kashin-Beck disease.
Low selenium levels are more common in people with certain conditions across the world, which has raised questions and hopes that selenium supplements could bring health benefits.
Selenium as a supplement
Selenium is one of several nutrients known to have antioxidant properties, meaning selenium plays a part in chemical reactions that stop free radicals from damaging cells and DNA. Free radicals are unstable molecules from environmental toxins, or from byproducts of the human body's metabolism. Antioxidant supplements, including selenium, are often touted to help prevent to heart disease, cancer and vision loss.
Selenium supplements in particular are purported to help people with asthma, and reduce the risk of rheumatoid arthritis and cardiovascular disease. Selenium levels drop with age, so some have claimed selenium can slow the aging process, cognitive decline and dementia. Low selenium levels are also implicated in depression, male infertility, weak immune systems and thyroid problems.
Selenium is said to slow the progression of HIV and counteract the poisonous effect of heavy metals. Dandruff shampoos use selenium sulfide as a topical treatment, however this form of selenium can cause cancer if ingested. Headaches, nausea and vertigo symptoms from intracranial pressure are said to be improved by selenium supplements. Selenium is also said to improve malabsorption in the digestive tract, particularly among children.
Do selenium supplements work?
For cancer?
Studies of selenium levels and large populations over time have found a correlation between people who eat a lot of selenium and a lower risk of some cancers, specifically bladder cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer and some gastrointestinal cancers. More than 100 small animal experiments have shown selenium supplements reduce the number of new tumors, according to a January 2004 review published in the British Journal of Nutrition.
Regions with selenium-rich soil tend to have lower death rates from cancer than areas with low-selenium soil, particularly for cancers of the lung, esophagus, bladder, breast, colon, rectum, pancreas, ovary and cervix, according to the American Cancer Society. But these trends do not prove selenium is an underlying factor in cancer survival.
Controlled studies, in which groups of people were given either selenium supplements or a placebo, have found conflicting results about selenium's cancer fighting properties. A study of more than 1,300 men and women with non-melanoma skin cancer found that the group of men assigned to take selenium supplements also had 52 percent fewer cases of prostate cancer, according to the 2003 paper published in the journal BJUI. But a larger study of more than 35,000 men called the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT), found selenium supplements had no influence on prostate cancer risk. The Mayo Clinic does not recommend selenium supplements for cancer based on the current scientific evidence.
To prevent heart disease?
Preliminary studies show selenium may play a role in heart heath. Selenium reduces inflammation and prevents platelets — a type of clotting cell in the blood — from aggregating, which is necessary for blood clots to form. Blood clots can lead to stroke, heart attacks, kidney failure, pulmonary embolism and other problems.
A selenium deficiency may make atherosclerosis (a hardening of the arteries) worse, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Animal studies have shown supplementing selenium after a long dietary deficiency reversed cardiovascular damage in mice. However, human studies on the subject have seen mixed results.
Some observational studies, where doctors track people but don't randomly assign them to taking a supplement or a placebo, found that the lower the selenium levels in the blood, the higher a person's risk of high blood pressure and coronary heart disease. But other observational studies didn't find a significant link between selenium levels and cardiovascular disease. Some observational studies even found the opposite trend; higher selenium levels were associated with worse cardiovascular health, according to the National Institutes of Health's Office of Dietary Supplement.
In one clinical trial, researchers assigned more than 450 older adults to take either a placebo or various strengths of selenium supplements for six months. They found the people taking selenium supplements had lower levels of bad cholesterol, and the group taking the highest amount of selenium (300 micrograms) also showed higher levels of HDL ("good") cholesterol, according to a May 2011 paper in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
However, a 2012 review by the Cochrane Collaboration concluded that taken together, the evidence from selenium studies — including nearly 20,000 people participating in 12 trials — did not support taking selenium supplements as a way to prevent major cardiovascular disease. However, the researchers did note that the vast majority of participants were men from the United States, where people already get a lot of selenium from food.
To treat rheumatoid arthritis?
People with rheumatoid arthritis are more likely to have low selenium levels, but it is currently unclear whether low selenium levels are a result of the condition, or a contributing factor. Once a person is diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, selenium supplements do not seem to help, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center.
To prevent memory loss?
Because selenium levels decline with age, there is a possibility that selenium influences age-related mental declines. Large observational studies of have found either no link between selenium levels and memory test scores, or found that people with lower selenium levels are more likely to have cognitive decline over time, according to National Institutes of Health's Office of Dietary Supplements.
One eight-year study of more than 4,000 participants, ages 45 to 60, found that people taking antioxidant supplements had better verbal memory scores six years after the study ended, according to the September 2011 paper in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. However, because the antioxidant supplements included a mix of vitamin and minerals, the researchers could not separate what, if any, influence selenium had on memory scores. Selenium may have a role in cognitive decline because of its antioxidant properties, which can protect brain cells from damage over time. But overall, the limited number of studies on selenium and mental decline do not provide enough evidence to determine whether selenium can influence brain function, according to the National Institutes of Health's Office of Dietary Supplements.
To help thyroid problems?
Evidence supports a link between selenium levels, iodine deficiencies and thyroid function, especially in women. Selenium is more concentrated in the thyroid than in other organ in the body, and it is important in the production and metabolism of thyroid hormone.
One analysis of 1,900 people in France found that among women a mild iodine deficiency, those with lower the selenium levels were more likely to develop goiters or thyroid damage compared with those with higher selenium levels, according to a 2003 article in the European Journal of Endocrinology. Subsequent studies have found similar links.However controlled studies on thyroid health, where participants are given selenium supplements or placebos, have had mixed results. More research is needed to determine if selenium supplements can fight thyroid diseases.
To help diabetes?
There is limited research on selenium supplements and diabetes risk. A few large observational studies showed a correlation between higher selenium concentrations in toenails and a lower risk of diabetes. However a placebo-controlled study of more than 1,200 people over seven years found selenium supplements didn't reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes, and may actually increase diabetes risk, according to the 2007 paper published in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
To slow the progression of HIV?
Selenium levels tend to drop as HIV infections progress. Recent studies on selenium supplements in HIV-positive patients show some promise. One laboratory study of human blood cells found that adding a certain selenoprotein to HIV-infected cells slowed the replication of HIV by 10-fold, compared with HIV-infected human cells without the selenoprotein, according to the November 2008 paper in the Journal of Biological Chemistry.
A study on 878 HIV-positive people in Botswana, who had not taken antiretroviral medicines, showed a multivitamin in combination with selenium supplements slowed the progression of HIV symptoms and lowered the risk of death, according to the November 2013 paper published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. Interestingly, the selenium supplements alone or the multivitamin alone did not provide any better protection than placebo during the two-year study.
Another controlled study of HIV-positive people found that 200 micrograms of daily selenium supplements could suppress HIV viral burden (the amount of virus in the blood) and strengthen the immune system, according to a 2007 paper published in the Archives of Internal Medicine.
To help other health conditions? People with asthma tend to have lower selenium levels than people without asthma. But the few epidemiological studies to touch on this topic haven't found that taking selenium supplements can reduce asthma symptoms, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. And while selenium is needed to make healthy sperm, very high selenium levels are also linked to decreased sperm motility.
Selenium does help the production of white blood cells, which help fight infection. But there are limited studies as to whether selenium supplements beyond the recommended daily amount boost the immune system, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center.
Are selenium supplements safe?
Most people in the United States get more than the 55 micrograms of selenium recommended each day. However, some situations may lower a person's selenium levels. People who smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol often are more likely to have low selenium levels. Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, or other conditions that interfere with how the body absorbs selenium can lead to low selenium levels. Kidney dialysis patients may also become low in selenium. The chemotherapy drug cisplatin can lower selenium levels in the blood, but it is not known if cisplatin can lead to a significant deficiencies.
Supplements may deliver selenium in several forms, including sodium selenite and sodium selenate. But more forms of selenium are found naturally in food, according to the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University.
The human body only needs a trace amount of selenium, so it is possible to overdose with selenium supplements. In 2008, a liquid dietary supplement that was 200 times more concentrated than advertised led to selenium poisoning in more than 200 people in 10 states. The most common effects were diarrhea, fatigue, hair loss, joint pail, brittle nails and nausea. A third of the people affected continued to experience symptoms 90 days after taking the mislabeled supplements.
Taking too much selenium over time can lead to selenosis, which can cause hair loss, nail loss, nausea, irritability, fatigue and some nerve damage. Other symptoms of chronic selenium overdose are a metallic taste in the mouth, and a garlic scent on the breath. A selenium overdose can cause skin lesions and nervous system abnormalities. In severe cases, selenium toxicity can cause tremors, kidney failure, cardiac failure, respiratory distress or even death. Luckily, selenosis is rare in the United States.
The Institute of Medicine's Food and Nutrition Board caps the safe daily intake of selenium at 45 micrograms for infants, 60 to 90 micrograms in toddlers, 150 to 280 micrograms in prepubescent children and 400 micrograms in adults.
Selenium may increase the risk of bleeding if it's combined with blood thinners such as clopidogrel (Plavix), coumadin, heparin or aspirin, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Animal studies show selenium supplements may also extend the effects of sedatives. And antioxidant supplements that included selenium have been shown to interfere with cholesterol-lowering treatments.
Selenium supplements
首頁
About
Services
Menu
Contact
Copyright © 2015