Arthritis, Massage and Aromatherapy – Cambridge Aromatherapy and Massage
Cambridge Aromatherapy and Massage
with organic essential oils.
Menu
Home
A new term.
About Aromatherapy
Enquiry form
Massage Therapy
FAQ
Massage and aromatherapy for Depression.
Products
Professional Body
Testimonials
The Practitioner
My Training in Therapeutic Massage, Aromatherapy and Psychotherapy
Arthritis, Massage and Aromatherapy
September 29, 2015
| No Comments
Often thought of as an, “older persons'” illness, this is not necessarily the case. There are juvenile forms of the disease and osteoarthritis can be present at a relatively early age due to bad work practice or repetitive actions from sports. It can also be a consequence of sports injuries. The rheumatoid form of the disease is an auto-immune disease.
Nearly all are able to get some relief from massage but it is important to remember that massage and aromatherapy will not reverse damage that has been done. the cartilage once destroyed does not regrow. It is also important to remember that the pain an individual experiences does not necessarily reflect the amount of damage that shows up on x-ray. Some with very little damage experience a lot of pain and some with a lot of damage seem to experience a lot less. Massage and aromatherapy are able to reduce the amount of pain experienced by a client. However those with chronic severe pain may still require analgesia. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy also helps many with chronic pain issues.
Essential oils that can help with arthritis include Scots Pine, Lavender, Ginger and Sweet Marjoram.
As psychological issues have a great effect on the experience of pain, oils like Bergamot for depression, and Frankincense for anxiety are also often useful and I often use these alongside the oils that directly effect arthritic pain in my Cambridge Practice.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Tags: Anxiety, Bergamot, CBT, Chronic Pain, Depression, Frankincense, Ginger, Lavender, Osteoarthritis, Pain management, Rheumatoid arthritis, Sweet Marjoram
Post navigation
← How and when to use essential oils.
Essential oils in the home. →
Facebook
Facebook Select Category Anti-bacterial (2) antimicrobial (2) Aromatherapy (9) Aromatherapy and massage Cambridge (11) Bee keeping Cambridge (2) Bees (5) Bees Cambridge (2) Cambridge (4) Cambridge Cropshare (1) Cancer (1) christmas (1) Clinical (5) Democracy (1) Domestic (1) Essential oils (6) Events (1) Fibromyalgia (1) Frankincense (3) German Chamomile (2) Ginger (3) Grafton Centre (1) Herbal medicine (2) Information and massage (2) Ivy (1) M.E. (1) Mangosteen cytotoxic (1) Massage (4) Massage and aromatherapy (4) Mental Health (2) Organic Food Cambridge (1) Permaculture (1) Poetry (1) Research (2) Roman Chamomile (2) Rosemary (2) Self Harm (1) shopping (1) stress (1) Trumpington (5) Uncategorized (747) video (1) Vulnerability (2) Woodstove (1)
Blogroll
Discuss
Get Inspired
Get Polling
Get Support
Facebook
Facebook
Cambridge Aromatherapy
Cambridge Aromatherapy
Please check that this widget Facebook Reviews has a connected Facebook.
Cambridge Aromatherapy
5.0
powered by Facebook
Beverley Carpenter
2017-02-09T23:18:49+0000
Thank you Dave for a fantastic massage with the perfect blend of essential oils.. feeling good!
Spa Lite
Book Now
%d bloggers like this: