Selenium news, articles and information:
Home About NaturalNews Contact Us Write for NaturalNews Media Info Advertise with Natural News
Selenium news, articles and information:
Tweet
Pin It
Eating selenium-rich foods including shellfish, nuts and onions decreases the risk of liver cancer, say scientists
7/12/2016 - Liver cancers are on the rise in developing countries. Now, more than ever, prevention measures are becoming crucial in the battle against liver cancer. Due to late-stage diagnoses and limited treatment options, mortality numbers are very high, and liver cancer is the second most common cause of...
Selenium in broccoli and garlic boosts immune system, could help fight cancer
12/1/2014 11:20:01 AM - Most Natural News readers know that broccoli is a good cancer preventative. Not everyone knows that garlic is another good food to help stave off cancer cell reproduction. The compound or trace mineral selenium was isolated as the main cancer fighter, according to the latest research from the University...
Is your thyroid sluggish? Foods that benefit the thyroid with selenium and iodine
10/4/2014 - Is your hair thinning or falling out? When you look in the mirror, does it seem that the outer edges of your eyebrows have disappeared? Have you gained or lost weight without changing your diet? Are you tired all the time? You may be one of the millions of Americans with undiagnosed thyroid disease. ...
Vitamins C and E and selenium protect kidneys and bones from toxic cadmium
3/27/2014 - Cadmium is a widespread and highly toxic heavy metal to which most people are exposed simply through its contamination of their food. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) lists cadmium as number seven on its list of the 275 most hazardous substances. Fortunately, research suggests that...
Vitamin E helps protect against toxic effects of mercury
1/22/2014 - A combination of vitamin E and selenium products may help reduce the toxicity of mercury from eating fish, according to a recent study involving lab rats. Scientists say that, if results can be replicated in human beings, the findings could mean that pregnant women may be able to consumer larger amounts...
What is selenium?
11/16/2013 - Selenium was first used as treatment for dandruff but this essential trace mineral (required only in small amounts by the body) has enjoyed certain breakthroughs connected with its role defining its importance in the overall nutritional schema. When taken together with beta carotene, vitamins E and...
In the 1980s, Dr. Emanuel Revici was the first physician to save terminal cancer patients using naturally derived omega-3 fatty acids and selenium
10/13/2013 - You will most likely never hear an oncologist in America speak of omega-3 fatty acids or selenium as a cure for cancer, and you will never hear any "cancer specialist" who believes in modern chemotherapy and radiation mention the name Dr. Emanuel Revici. Why not? The American Medical Association (AMA)...
Four steps to rid your body of fluoride's negative affects
5/3/2013 - For years experts have been warning against the dangers of sodium fluoride, but that awareness has grown in recent years, as cities like Portland, Ore. have angered residents with plans to add fluoride, and voters in Wichita, Kan. voting against adding it to their water system for the third time in...
Fluoride toxicity - Protect yourself with selenium
9/21/2012 - Excess fluoride may increase your risk for 23 different cancers, lower your child's IQ and school performance and increase oxidative stress throughout your body. But new research has shown that the mineral selenium plays a key role in detoxifying excess fluoride, restoring the body's antioxidant capacity...
Use selenium to protect against cancer
5/10/2012 - In a recent radio interview, Doctor Peter Glidden, N.D. (naturopathic doctor) disclosed that a daily intake of 200 mcg of selenium produces an effective protection against cancer. He wondered aloud why this information is not part of public knowledge in the "War against Cancer." He pointed out that...
Study shows selenium may protect against pancreatic cancer
1/3/2012 - High levels of selenium in the body appear to reduce the risk of pancreatic cancer, according to a study published in December 2011 in Gut, the journal of the British Society of Gastroenterology. Pancreatic cancer is particularly lethal. It tends to be diagnosed only in advanced stages and 80% of...
Vitamin E increases risk of prostate cancer? More junk science from JAMA
10/19/2011 - A "science skeptic" who routinely attacks vitamins and holistic health therapies recently reported the following in his newsletter: Study questions vitamin E safety. A major clinical trial has found that dietary supplementation with vitamin E appears to increase the risk of prostate cancer among...
Selenium deficiency increases heart disease and cancer incidence
4/13/2011 - Researchers reporting in the FASEB Journal found that selenium deficiency in the American diet may be a significant foundation for the rampant proliferation of heart disease and cancer over the past several decades. By analyzing data from hundreds of published studies, Dr. Bruce Ames of the Children`s...
Selenium detoxifies the body of toxic mercury and reverses aging
4/4/2011 - A recent study published in the journal Neurotoxicology says that the essential element selenium effectively scours the body of toxic mercury buildup and mitigates its neurotoxic effects. Selenium also visibly helps to improve mobility and athletic ability as the body ages, according to the research. Conducted...
Why you should get your selenium and zinc from foods, not synthetic vitamins
2/18/2011 - I first met the MegaFood company at a natural products expo two years ago. We sat down and had a conversation about "food-based nutrients" versus isolated or synthetic nutrients, and it turned into a fascinating hour that left me thinking we should be doing something with the MegaFood company at some...
Zinc, Selenium, Iodine and Calcium - A variety of minerals are needed to grow hair
12/28/2010 - A deficiency in minerals can cause hair loss because hair production requires a wide variety of minerals and trace minerals. Numerous systems in the body participate in the production of hair. For instance, hormonal balance is needed in order for hair to grow, and the hair follicles where hair is produced...
Selenium: Find Health with the Mercury Magnet
10/22/2010 - Today's society is loaded with powerful toxins of all shapes and sizes. One of the most harmful & potentially lethal of these biological toxins is mercury. Mercury has a strong affinity for fatty tissue and loves to clog up the brain, liver, & kidneys. Science has now revealed that selenium is a powerful...
Selenium Defies FDA Mandate by Preventing and Curing Heart Failure
7/20/2010 - The FDA states that only drugs can prevent or cure disease, but fortunately the local medical authorities in areas with low soil selenium levels are taking a more effective path to the prevention and treatment of a serious heart condition. Keshan Disease, a type of heart failure that leads to an enlarged...
New evidence shows selenium and omega-3s prevent colon cancer
1/25/2010 - When scientists gathered in Houston recently for the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Frontiers in Cancer Prevention Research Conference, they heard groundbreaking evidence about how colon cancer can be prevented. The new data wasn't about drugs or surgery, either. Instead, two separate...
Trace mineral selenium helps prevent cancer
10/2/2009 - The CSPI is reportedly suing Bayer over the company's claims that the selenium in its "One-A-Day" multivitamin formula helps prevent prostate cancer (http://www.reuters.com/article/healthNews/idUSTRE5905I320091001). It's rare to see NaturalNews actually siding with Bayer on anything, but in this case,...
Selenium Helps Remove Mercury from the Body
7/30/2009 - While high levels of Mercury are often found in large species of fish, a more important factor to consider is the relative amount of Selenium the fish contains. Selenium, also abundant in seafood, actually helps remove Mercury from the body. Thus, consuming certain types of seafood (and other foods)...
Studies Show Selenium Prevents Cancer and Thyroid Disease
6/3/2009 - Selenium is an essential trace mineral that forms an important part of our immune defense function, as well as a component in heart muscle. Found naturally in animal protein and vegetables, it is also found in fish, vegetables, and especially Brazil nuts. Its anti-oxidant functions have now been shown...
Zinc and Selenium are the Minerals that Fight Breast Cancer
5/24/2009 - Any woman wanting to avoid breast cancer or its recurrence needs to be aware of the real risk factors. These are not the factors you hear about from the typical oncologist who is interested in pushing drugs. Imbalances in the body are the real risk factors that explain why women get breast cancer, not...
Natural Compounds in Vegetables plus Selenium Fight Melanoma
3/3/2009 - According to the National Cancer Institute about 67,720 people in the US were diagnosed last year with melanoma, the most serious form of skin cancer, and around 8,420 Americans died from this malignancy. Melanoma can become deadly if it spreads to other parts of the body -- because that makes it particularly...
Selenium Curbs AIDS Virus, may Fight Cancer
12/2/2008 - After decades of attempting to fight AIDS with experimental vaccines and drugs, scientists have recently discovered how several natural substances could be powerful weapons against the disease. For example, in mid-November, UCLA AIDS researchers published research concluding that the herb astragalus...
Spinning the Truth About the Halted NCI Prostate Cancer Study
10/30/2008 - The National Cancer Institute has announced a halt to its $114 million study of whether vitamin E and selenium can prevent prostate cancer, saying that they cannot and that they might even cause slightly elevated risks for more prostate cancer and diabetes. However, upon further examination it becomes...
Eating Just Two Brazil Nuts a Day Ensures Adequate Selenium Levels
10/10/2008 - Brazil nuts are the best way to add selenium to your diet. A recent study at the University of Otago in New Zealand found that eating just two Brazil nuts a day is as effective in increasing selenium status and enhancing glutathione peroxidase activity as a recommended dosage of selenomethionine. Inclusion...
Healing Illness - A Natural Anti-Cancer Protocol
3/10/2008 - Western medicine treats the body as a collection of parts instead of as a synergistic organism. When it comes to treating broken bones and injured body parts, mainstream Western medicine is unequaled. When this same approach is used to treat illness and disease - fixing or repairing the parts where...
Use Selenium and Zinc to Ward Off Cancer and Boost Immunity
2/28/2008 - Cancer, a word that no one wants to think about or talk about and people dread hearing, is unfortunately affecting more and more Americans than ever before. The lies of the mainstream media, that we're "winning the war on cancer", are based on statistical nonsense. More and more people are getting cancer...
Selenium intake prevents loss of brain function as we age
2/25/2007 - A person's selenium intake throughout life may influence how well they retain cognitive function as they age, according to a new study published in the "American Journal of Epidemiology." "In this cross-sectional survey of cognitive function in rural elderly Chinese, we found that decreasing selenium...
Selenium, taken daily, found to keep HIV under control and boost immune system function
1/27/2007 - HIV patients may have an effective weapon to lengthen their lives, thanks to selenium. Taking a selenium supplement daily appears to keep HIV at bay and also strengthen the immune system, according to research by the University of Miami. In a double-blind study of 262 HIV patients divided between...
Selenium boost could slash rates of bladder cancer by 70 percent, concludes research
9/29/2006 - The mineral selenium, when taken from daily dietary sources such as nuts, whole wheat and wheat pasta, can cut the risk of bladder cancer by up to 70 percent according to new research from Belgium. The researchers and authors of the study, led by Eliane Kellen from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven,...
Secrets of soil nutrition: Why the minerals in soil determine the success or failure of foods, health and civilization
8/22/2006 - In learning about nutrition, we often hear that certain foods contain a certain amount of vitamins and minerals. This is especially true in fruits, vegetables, and other produce, but very few people understand the truth about this information, which is that most of the published values about this nutritional...
The mineral selenium proves itself as powerful anti-cancer medicine
1/4/2006 - One of the most effective naturally occurring weapons against cancer is, like most healthy things, something many of us are not getting enough of. The mineral selenium has been shown in multiple studies to be an effective tool in warding off various types of cancer, including breast, esophageal, stomach,...
See all 57 selenium feature articles.
Concept-related articles:
Nutritional supplements:
Vitamin warning! Some nutritional supplements use hydrogenated oils as filler
Lane Labs is latest victim in FDA's war of oppression against nutritional supplements that fight cancer
The Health Ranger Answers Common Questions About Nutritional Supplements (transcript)
FDA's relentless assault on diet pills and nutritional supplements puts Metabolife founder in hot seat
Whole food nutritional supplements offer better health benefits than isolated vitamins and minerals
Nutrition:
"Smart Choices" food label is marketing fraud; Tufts University involvement questioned (opinion)
Heart disease:
Resveratrol, the miracle nutrient to prevent heart disease
Vitamin E:
Vitamin E slows aging, grows hair, prevents diabetes, improves brain function and blood flow
Diet:
Plant-Based Diets: An Overview of Options for Optimal Health
Supplements:
The Health Ranger Answers Common Questions About Nutritional Supplements (transcript)
Calcium:
Are the coral calcium claims by Bob Barefoot credible and believable?
Cancers:
Cancer is not a Disease - It's a Survival Mechanism (Book Excerpt)
Antioxidant:
Antioxidant Blends May Offer Protection in Life Threatening Conditions
Health:
Where's the health in health care reform?
Disease:
Disease Economy: How the United States economy runs on "treating" chronic disease
Foods:
Whole Foods caught in GMO marketing deception, false advertising - here's the proof
Eating:
Miracle Cure for Gout and Arthritis Pain? Six Cherries a Day
Weight:
Bone density sharply enhanced by weight training, even in the elderly
Body:
Why weight loss requires strength training, even in women and seniors
Experts:
Cancer solutions from five experts revealed in new audio series
Subscribe to the Health Ranger's
FREE email newsletter
Follow @HealthRanger
Concepts related to Selenium
nutritional supplements nutrition heart disease dieting lose weight vitamin E diet supplements calcium cancers antioxidant San Francisco health disease foods eating weight body experts multivitamin supplement heart support leafy greens greens free cancer prostate cancer antioxidants lycopene cancer risk food Prostate risk research study men immune system herbs vegetables vitamin C
View selenium on NaturalPedia™
Today's Top Stories on NaturalNews
Today | Week | Month | Year
The Annihilation Agenda: Why globalists are actively working to exterminate 90% of the human race - NaturalNews.com
NY judge declares the State owns your body and can force you to be injected with anything they want - NaturalNews.com
CDC admits HIV is exploding among transgender women… total silence from left-wing media, just like with the spread of anal cancer among homosexuals - NaturalNews.com
Aluminum Defense product in development to remove neurotoxic aluminum from your body - NaturalNews.com
San Francisco turning into a giant toilet filled with human feces as leftist bureaucrats accelerate America’s plunge into Third World status - NaturalNews.com
After abandoning Christians, powerful media corporations are now embracing Satanism - NaturalNews.com
Bank of America just shut down all bank accounts belonging to a Baptist Pastor because of his Christian beliefs - NaturalNews.com
Bombshell science study shows that electric cars are DIRTIER for the planet than diesel vehicles - NaturalNews.com
“Doctor, how did I get so sick?” From the roots of chronic inflammation to the crux of “unsolvable” American health catastrophes - NaturalNews.com
“Harmless” painkillers like ibuprofen now linked to huge increase in risk of sudden heart attack - NaturalNews.com
Here’s what happens when you tell the truth in America - NaturalNews.com
Timeline for U.S. Government’s TOTAL CONTROL of Your Health - NaturalNews.com
4 Nutritious foods that can help lower blood pressure when SHTF - NaturalNews.com
“Scientist of the Year” arrested, charged with 35 counts of child porn… many science “skeptics” are pedophiles - NaturalNews.com
Easy ways to boost your intelligence (Hint: all of them are natural) - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL SHOCKER: MMR vaccine dangers exposed by FDA study - NaturalNews.com
Every liberal city in America is headed toward Venezuela… get out while you can - NaturalNews.com
Stop cancer cells dead in their tracks with turmeric - NaturalNews.com
Top 11 causes of cancer you may have NEVER guessed - NaturalNews.com
Herbal remedies that increase blood circulation in the feet - NaturalNews.com
CDC admits measles outbreak is caused by people from other countries who enter the United States and spread the disease - NaturalNews.com
This Easter Sunday, it’s time to tell the truth about the global war on Christianity (and the rise of Satanism) - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
The Annihilation Agenda: Why globalists are actively working to exterminate 90% of the human race - NaturalNews.com
Candida Auris: The silent superbug that’s already too late to stop – full documentary - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL SHOCKER: MMR vaccine dangers exposed by FDA study - NaturalNews.com
Dancing on the Crumbling Precipice: Jim Quinn explains why the deep state is the true enemy of human civilization - NaturalNews.com
Every liberal city in America is headed toward Venezuela… get out while you can - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Stunning new material invented in Turkey: “Metallic wood” is 5 times stronger than titanium, but lighter - NaturalNews.com
Medical BOMBSHELL: Chemotherapy found to spread cancer - NaturalNews.com
Over 30,000 scientists say 'Catastrophic Man-Made Global Warming' is a complete hoax and science lie
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines found to be a powerful anticancer food - NaturalNews.com
Whole Foods selling bottled water contaminated with dangerous levels of arsenic - NaturalNews.com
Dairy industry to DISAPPEAR in 10 years? - NaturalNews.com
EXONERATED: No collusion, no obstruction… Trump cleared in bombshell Mueller report, exposing bald-faced LIES of the anti-Trump media - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
NYC Mayor De Blasio tells citizens: We own your bodies, and we can force you to be injected with anything we want - NaturalNews.com
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines found to be a powerful anticancer food - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL ALERT: Hospitals are releasing deadly superbug fungi into the open air, “colonizing” the population with dangerous pathogens that have a 41% – 88% fatality rate - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL MARTIAL LAW rolled out in New York; unvaccinated citizens banned from all public places, including schools, churches, malls, sidewalks, public transit and voting locations - NaturalNews.com
Microwave ovens ‘fluke’ your heart while they ‘nuke’ your food - alarming studies reveal microwave frequency radiation can affect heart and blood - NaturalNews.com
Does removing sugar from your diet starve cancer cells? New study finds surprising answers - NaturalNews.com
Candida Auris: The silent superbug that’s already too late to stop – full documentary - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
Top 11 causes of cancer you may have NEVER guessed - NaturalNews.com
IBM, the same company that provided punch card computing systems to the Nazis, lays groundwork for global “Mark of the Beast” cryptocurrency network - NaturalNews.com
UPS partnering with drug giants to inject you with vaccines in your own home… pilot project a blueprint for nationwide vaccine mandates at gunpoint - NaturalNews.com
Burger King rolls out the genetically modified “Impossible Burger” made with questionable chemicals - NaturalNews.com
Yes, Google has been LISTENING and RECORDING everything you say in your own home through secret NEST microphones - NaturalNews.com
Herbal remedies that increase blood circulation in the feet - NaturalNews.com
Moral decline: Satanic symbols now appearing at government buildings all across America - NaturalNews.com
ANALYSIS: Deep state behind arrest of Julian Assange in last-ditch desperate effort to take down Trump with forced “confessions” - NaturalNews.com
Arizona SWAT team smashes door, raids mother’s home at gunpoint over child having a fever… medical tyranny gone wild in the USA - NaturalNews.com
Homeschooling skyrockets as more parents get fed up with Left-wing social engineering and violence in public schools - NaturalNews.com
Court ruling confirms Gardasil vaccine kills people… scientific evidence beyond any doubt… so where is the outcry? - NaturalNews.com
CONFIRMED: Barack Obama was running the entire spygate operation that violated federal law to spy on Trump campaign officials - NaturalNews.com
U.S. chicken farms are so dirty, meat has to be washed with chlorine before being sold for human consumption - NaturalNews.com
Philippines government conducts armed raid of natural health clinic; hundred of patients thrown to the streets… Dr. Farrah forced to flee after entire family death threated - NaturalNews.com
“Mystery virus” spreading like wildfire across U.S. population, putting people in bed for a MONTH… is this a depopulation bioweapon experiment? - NaturalNews.com
Flu shot lands man in hospital, unable to speak, walk, see or even BREATHE - NaturalNews.com
It takes money to try to hold Big Pharma accountable: Chuck Norris sues 11 drug companies for poisoning his wife - NaturalNews.com
Many cases of “dementia” are actually side effects of prescription drugs or vaccines, according to research - NaturalNews.com
Kavanaugh accuser Christine Blasey exposed for ties to Big Pharma abortion pill maker… effort to derail Kavanaugh is plot to protect abortion industry profits - NaturalNews.com
Scientists have discovered a way to destroy cancer tumors using nothing but sound waves - NaturalNews.com
EMERGENCY REPORT: Signed Executive Orders reveal Trump is planning mass arrests, military tribunals for deep state traitors like Comey, Clinton and Obama – UPDATE - NaturalNews.com
Study PROVES chemicals in shampoo and toothpaste are altering sex hormones in adolescents - NaturalNews.com
FDA quietly bans powerful life-saving intravenous Vitamin C - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Microwave ovens ‘fluke’ your heart while they ‘nuke’ your food - alarming studies reveal microwave frequency radiation can affect heart and blood - NaturalNews.com
The criminalization of science whistleblowers: A mind-blowing interview with Judy Mikovits, PhD - NaturalNews.com
Does removing sugar from your diet starve cancer cells? New study finds surprising answers - NaturalNews.com
See All Top Headlines...
Most Popular Stories
TED aligns with Monsanto, halting any talks about GMOs, 'food as medicine' or natural healing
10 other companies that use the same Subway yoga mat chemical in their buns
Warning: Enrolling in Obamacare allows government to link your IP address with your name, social security number, bank accounts and web surfing habits
High-dose vitamin C injections shown to annihilate cancer
USDA to allow U.S. to be overrun with contaminated chicken from China
Vaccine fraud exposed: Measles and mumps making a huge comeback because vaccines are designed to fail, say Merck virologists
New USDA rule allows hidden feces, pus, bacteria and bleach in conventional poultry
Battle for humanity nearly lost: global food supply deliberately engineered to end life, not nourish it
Harvard research links fluoridated water to ADHD, mental disorders
10 outrageous (but true) facts about vaccines the CDC and the vaccine industry don't want you to know
EBT card food stamp recipients ransack Wal-Mart stores, stealing carts full of food during federal computer glitch
Cannabis kicks Lyme disease to the curb
Recommended Resources
TV.NaturalNews.com is a free video website featuring thousands of videos on holistic health, nutrition, fitness, recipes, natural remedies and much more.
CounterThink Cartoons are free to view and download. They cover topics like health, environment and freedom.
The Consumer Wellness Center is a non-profit organization offering nutrition education grants to programs that help children and expectant mothers around the world.
Food Investigations is a series of mini-documentaries exposing the truth about dangerous ingredients in the food supply.
Webseed.com offers alternative health programs, documentaries and more.
The Honest Food Guide is a free, downloadable public health and nutrition chart that dares to tell the truth about what foods we should really be eating.
HealingFoodReference.com offers a free online reference database of healing foods, phytonutrients and plant-based medicines that prevent or treat diseases and health conditions.
HerbReference.com is a free, online reference library that lists medicinal herbs and their health benefits.
NutrientReference.com is a free online reference database of phytonutrients (natural medicines found in foods) and their health benefits. Lists diseases, foods, herbs and more.
This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners.