Pictures: 13 Ways to Treat Pain at Home
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Pain Management
Slideshows
Ways to Treat Pain at Home
1 / 14
When to Say When
Pain from injury, accident, or illness can happen to anyone at any time. You can do a number of things at home to feel better. But go to a doctor if it suddenly gets worse or changes -- especially if there’s tingling, numbness, or burning -- or if nothing you try makes you feel better.
Swipe to advance
2 / 14
RICE
It stands for rest, ice, compress, and elevate, and it’s the go-to treatment for minor sprains and bruising. Ice the injury as soon as possible and put pressure on it with an elastic wrap or bandage. If you’ve hurt an arm or leg, rest with it raised above your heart to keep swelling down. But don’t stay in one place too long -- it’s best to get moving again as soon as you can.
Swipe to advance
3 / 14
Water
Use it to clean cuts and scrapes and to treat burns. If you're dealing with a burn, put the injured area in cool water or cover it with a cold compress as soon as you can. If your skin blisters, leaks fluid, loses feeling, or turns black, brown, or white, get medical help right away.
Swipe to advance
4 / 14
Multi-Purpose Washcloth
Wrap it around a bag of frozen vegetables or a plastic bag filled with ice cubes for a comfortable ice pack that can help with the swelling and pain that comes with sprains or strains. A warm, damp one also can be used to treat many kinds of infections, like a boil, an infected cut, or a stye -- an infected eyelash that causes a red, sore lump on your eyelid. Or use a cool one to ease the itchiness and pain of pinkeye.
Swipe to advance
5 / 14
Over-the-Counter Anti-Inflammatories
These medications include aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen. They’re often used to treat the pain that comes with inflammation, like sprains. You don’t need a prescription, but you should be careful with them: Large doses can cause stomach pain and nausea, and long-term overuse can lead to kidney problems, ulcers, and high blood pressure. If you have stomach ulcers or kidney disease, talk with your doctor first.
Swipe to advance
6 / 14
Acetaminophen
It’s used for headaches, toothaches, menstrual cramps, and other kinds of pain that don’t necessarily come with inflammation. If you take it only occasionally, it doesn’t usually cause problems. But don't take it in high doses -- that can damage your liver and kidneys. People who have issues with those organs shouldn’t use it without talking to their doctor first.
Swipe to advance
7 / 14
Topical Pain Relievers
These are over-the-counter gels, creams, sprays, and patches you put on your skin over the painful muscle, tendon, or joint. They can help relieve pain without serious side effects.
Swipe to advance
8 / 14
Hot Bath
This can be good for all kinds of conditions that affect your muscles, tendons, and bones, such as low back pain and joint pain. Some tips: The ideal temperature is between 92 and 100 F. And don’t just lie there -- warm water can help get blood flow to places that need it, so gently stretch and work those areas.
Swipe to advance
9 / 14
Sitz Bath
If your pain is near your behind or genital area -- open sores, anal fissures, hemorrhoids, for example -- a soak of your hind quarters in warm water can help with itching, irritation, and spasms of the sphincter muscle. Put a few inches of warm water in your bathtub, and sit for 20 minutes two or three times a day.
Swipe to advance
10 / 14
Massage
Whether given by a professional or a friend, or done yourself, this can help relieve certain kinds of pain, like headaches or backaches. Talk with a medical professional about the best ways to target your pain or injury with massage at home.
Swipe to advance
11 / 14
Sunglasses
These can help if you’re sensitive to light because of migraines or other illnesses. And they can protect your eyes from itchiness and irritation caused by pollen, dust, and mold.
Swipe to advance
12 / 14
Meditation
If your pain lingers, this mental discipline can help you manage it. You clear your mind of thoughts by focusing on one simple thing, such as your breath. It may work alone or in combination with medication.
Swipe to advance
13 / 14
Physical Therapy
Often used for chronic pain or after some kinds of surgeries or injuries, this can also treat pain from things like a twisted ankle or pulled muscle. Talk to your doctor about the right routine for you.
Swipe to advance
14 / 14
Aerobic Exercise
People who do regular aerobic exercise -- cycling or running, for example -- are less likely to get certain kinds of pain in the first place. And they’re better able to handle it if they’re injured. Check with your doctor if you’re not sure you’re healthy enough for this kind of exercise.
Swipe to advance
Up Next
Next Slideshow Title
Skip Ad
1 / 14
Skip Ad
Sources | Medically Reviewed on 12/10/2018 Reviewed by Tyler Wheeler, MD on December 10, 2018
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
1) BakiBG / Thinkstock
2) SEASTOCK / Thinkstock
3) George Doyle / Thinkstock
4) WebMD
5) Thinkstock
6) Digital Vision / Thinkstock
7) George Doyle / Thinkstock
8) ulief514 / Thinkstock
9) KatarzynaBialasiewicz / Thinkstock
10) TAGSTOCK1 / Thinkstock
11) Doc_Steele / Thinkstock
12) DragonImages / Getty Images
13) kali9 / Getty Images
14) m-gucci / Thinkstock
SOURCES:
American Academy of Ophthalmology: “Home Remedies for Simple Eye Problems.”
American Journal of Epidemiology: “Physical Exercise, Body Mass Index, and Risk of Chronic Pain in the Low Back and Neck/Shoulders: Longitudinal Data From the Nord-Trøndelag Health Study.”
American Lung Association: “Stop Smoking.”
Arthritis Foundation: “Warm Water Works Wonders on Pain.”
CDC Injury Prevention: “Burns.”
Cleveland Clinic: “Read This If You Are a Smoker Who Struggles With Chronic Pain.”
Harvard Health Publications: “Physical therapy as good as surgery and less risky for one type of lower back pain,” “Yoga for pain relief,” “Hemorrhoids and what to do about them.”
International Society for the Study of Pain: “Vitamin D Supplements Reduce Pain in Fibromyalgia Sufferers.”
Mayo Clinic: “Cuts and Scrapes: First Aid,” “Dehydration,” “Have a sprain? Get some R.I.C.E.,” “Self-care approaches to treating pain.”
National Institutes of Health: “Chicken soup inhibits neutrophil chemotaxis in vitro,” “The effects of self-massage on osteoarthritis of the knee: a randomized, controlled trial,” “Short-term effects of self-massage combined with home exercise on pain, daily activity, and autonomic function in patients with myofascial pain dysfunction syndrome,” “The Impact of Massage Therapy on Function in Pain Populations—A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials: Part I, Patients Experiencing Pain in the General Population,” “Mindfulness meditation-related pain relief: Evidence for unique brain mechanisms in the regulation of pain,” “Mindfulness Meditation Reduces Pain, Bypasses Opioid Receptors,” “Aerobic training increases pain tolerance in healthy individuals.”
Orthopedics Today: “Home-based rehabilitation can outperform physical therapy for ACL reconstruction.”
Pain Science: “Basic Self-Massage Tips for Myofascial Trigger Points.”
PhysiotherapyExercises.com.
Reviewed by Tyler Wheeler, MD on December 10, 2018
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information.
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
WebMD Slideshows
View our slideshows to learn more about your health.
Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches?
Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task.
Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for.
Attention Killers What steals your concentration?
Cancer Does THIS cause cancer?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.