Christian Stress Management: Dealing with Depression eBooks and Paperbacks
Pages
Home
Start Here
Newsletter
Shop
Advertise
Free Christian Counseling
Donate
About
Contact
ChristianStressManagement@gmail.com
Dealing with Depression eBooks and Paperbacks
Christian Biblical Principles for Dealing with Depression
Christian Biblical Principles for Dealing with Depression uses Biblical examples to teach effective ways of dealing with depression and successful strategies for coping with depressing situations because many people in the Bible were either depressed or dealing with depressing circumstances.
Examples of people who were depressed include Elijah after Jezebel threatened to kill him, Jonah in the belly of the whale and even Job after he lost his family and possessions.
Examples of people who were in depressing situations include Mordecai and Queen Esther after Haman planned annihilating the Jews, Joseph after he was sold into slavery and then imprisoned on trumped up charges and Naomi as she returned home after burying her husband and all her sons.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Christian Biblical Principles for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Christian Biblical Principles for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Self-Psychotherapy for Dealing with Depression
Self-Psychotherapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you how to analyze your thoughts so that you can uproot the depressing ones from your mind because depressing thoughts result in feeling depressed which in turn results in acting depressed and being depressed.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Self - Psychotherapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Self - Psychotherapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Social Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Social Therapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you the different ways you can socialize to help you cope with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Social Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Social Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Diet Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Diet Therapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you how to fight depression by eating “mood foods” as well as herbs and spices which have been shown to raise a person’s mood. This book also includes numerous recipes that teach you how to prepare delicious, healthy foods for defeating depression.
Table of Contents
Chapter 1. Complex Carbohydrates.
Chapter 2. Dark Chocolate.
Chapter 3. Milk.
Chapter 4. Tea.
Chapter 5. Omega 3 Fatty Acid Rich Food.
Chapter 6. Vitamin B1 Rich Food.
Chapter 7. Vitamin B9 Rich Food .
Chapter 8. Vitamin B12 Rich Food .
Chapter 9. Vitamin C Rich Food .
Chapter 10. Vitamin D Rich Food .
Chapter 11. Selenium Rich Food .
Chapter 12. Magnesium Rich Food.
Chapter 13. Iron Rich Food .
Chapter 14. Tyrosine Rich Food .
Chapter 15. Tryptophan Rich Food .
Chapter 16. Herbs .
Chapter 17. Spices .
Chapter 18. Depression Treatment Drinks .
Chapter 19. Depression Treatment Sandwiches .
Chapter 20. Depression Treatment Desserts.
Kindle eBook Diet Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Diet Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Writing Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Writing Therapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you the different ways that penning words on paper or typing them online can help a person cope with depression. It also contains over 50 writing projects, with examples, for dealing with depression holistically.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Writing Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Writing Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you the different types of music that can be beneficial for persons coping with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Talk Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Talk Therapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you the different types of talk therapy that can help someone coping with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Talk Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Talk Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Art Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Art Therapy for Dealing with Depression uses color pictures and clear explanations to teach you the different types of art therapy that are useful for managing depression. It also includes more than 50 art therapy projects, with examples, to help persons who are dealing with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Art Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Art Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Home Decor Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Home Decor Therapy for Dealing with Depression uses color pictures and clear explanations to teach you how to choose “anti-depression” home decor accents that add form and function, substance and style as well as tint and torch to your home or office space.
Home Decor Therapy for Dealing with Depression also teaches you how to make your modern home decor five dimensional so that you can depression proof your home holistically.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Home Decor Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Home Decor Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Chromotherapy for Dealing with Depression
Chromotherapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you how to brighten up your wardrobe with colors which have a positive effect on a depressed mental state so that you can experiment and see if you can change your mood by changing the colors of your clothes.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Apparel Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Chromotherapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Herbs and Spices for Dealing with Depression
Herb and Spices for Dealing with Depression teaches you about the condiments that can help a person coping with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Herb and Spices for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Herbs and Spices for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Aromatherapy for Dealing with Depression
Aromatherapy for Dealing with Depression uses clear explanations and color pictures to teach you how to use essential oils for natural depression treatment since these aromatherapy oils offer an effective depression self help strategy for adults and teens coping with depression.
Table of Contents
Chapter 1. What is Aromatherapy?
Chapter 2. Safety Measures when Using Essential Oils
Chapter 3. Carrier Oils for Managing Depression
Chapter 4. Essential Oils for Managing Depression
Chapter 5. How To Blend Essential Oils
Chapter 6. Natural Depression Treatment Essential Oil Recipes
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Aromatherapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Aromatherapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Eco-therapy for Dealing with Depression
Eco-Therapy for Dealing with Depression teaches you the different types of nature therapy that are useful for coping with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Eco-Therapy for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Eco-Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Vitamins for Dealing with Depression
Vitamins for Dealing with Depression teaches you how to fight depression by using nutritional supplements which are an important facet in the treatment of depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Vitamins for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Vitamins for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Physical Exercise for Dealing with Depression
Physical Exercise for Dealing with Depression teaches you the benefits of exercising in the management of depression. It also teaches you the stretching exercises, aerobic exercises and weight bearing exercises you can do in your home without the use of specialized gym equipment as well as a 4 week total body exercise plan to help you cope with depression.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Physical Exercise for Dealing with Depression
PDF eBook Physical Exercise for Dealing with Depression
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Dealing with Depression Naturally
Dealing with Depression Naturally helps you answer the following questions:
1. What is depression?
2. What are the symptoms of depression?
3. What causes depression?
Holistic Depression Treatment with Depression Naturally then teaches you how to manage depression holistically by using the following natural therapies:
1. Apparel therapy
2. Aromatherapy
3. Art therapy
4. Christian Biblical principles
5. Diet therapy
6. Eco-therapy
7. Herbal remedies
8. Home decor therapy
9. Music therapy
10. Physical exercise
11. Self-Psychotherapy
12. Social therapy
13. Talk therapy
14. Vitamins
15. Writing therapy
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Dealing with Depression Naturally
PDF eBook Dealing with Depression Naturally
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Dealing with Depression Natural Treatment Program
Dealing with Depression Natural Treatment Program is a 12 week program that teaches you one simple thing that you can do each day to help you manage feelings of sadness and depression holistically by using apparel therapy, aromatherapy, art therapy, Christian principles, diet therapy, eco-therapy, herbal remedies, home decor therapy, music therapy, physical exercise, self-psychotherapy, social therapy, talk therapy, vitamins, and writing therapy.
Book Excerpt
Kindle eBook Dealing with Depression Natural Treatment Program
PDF eBook Dealing with Depression Natural Treatment Program
Paperback Holistic Depression Treatment
Bookmark this post:
I'm reading: Dealing with Depression eBooks and Paperbacks ~
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Newer Post Older Post Home
Favorite Posts
We Are Not Ignorant of the His Devices 2 Corinthians 2:11
How to Fight for your Health with Bible Verses
How to Fight Infertility with Bible Verses
Connect with Us
Pinterest
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
Bloglovin
.
Search our Blog
Subscribe to our Newsletter to Get our Blog Posts and Special Offers
* indicates required
First Name
Email Address *
Search our Blog
Subscribe to our Newsletter
* indicates required
First Name
Email Address *
Pin with Us
Visit AlmasiHealth's profile on Pinterest.
Follow Us
Tweets by @AlmasiHealth
@christianstressmanagement
Like Us
Love Us
Follow us with bloglovin
Translate
Popular Posts
The Best Christian Movies for Easter
Christian Movies as Easter Gifts The best Christian movies for Easter make awesome presents since they teach valuable ...
Christian Book of the Month: Christian Time Management
Our Christian Book of the Month is Christian Time Management. Christian Time Management u ses Bible examples teac h y o u how to mana...
How to Fight for your Health with Bible Verses
How to Fight for your Health with Bible Verses Regardless of whether your health is constantly under atta...
Goal Setting Quotes from the Bible
Motivational goal setting quotes from the Bible that you can confess and meditate on to help you achieve your goal include: ...
Christian Author Book Blog Tour: Christian Affirmations and Meditations
This blog post is part of the Christian Author Book Blog Tour for Christian Affirmations and Meditations by Dr. Miriam Kinai. Bo...
How to Overcome Confusion
How to overcome confusion is part of our Dealing with the Devices of the Devil Series and has been adapted from the book W...
The Christian Guide to Claiming God's Promises for Your Finances
Claiming God's Promises for Finances The following are some of the Promises of God for financial prosperity: Ho...
Psalm 91 Devotional
He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. 2 I wil...
The Best Christian Books
The following are reviews of some of the best Christian books in my humble opinion (IMHO). I have read some of these...
Bible Verses to Overcome Laziness
How to Overcome Laziness Bible Verses How to overcome laziness Bible verses include: A. Characteristics of a lazy person Bib...
Pin Our Blog Posts
code
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, Who comforts us in all our tribulations so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. (2 Corinthians 1:3-6) Jehovah Nissi