Are you nuts? New research on the benefits of a nut-rich diet
Request an Appointment
(201) 651-9100
Our Services
Chiropractic Care
Physical Therapy and Rehab Center
The Butler Spine Program
Deep Tissue Laser Therapy
Acupuncture
Massage Therapy
Conditions We Treat
About Us
Staff by Department
Staff by Location
News / Blog
Patient Testimonials
Sign up For Our Newsletter
Locations
Oakland, NJ
Wayne, NJ
Fair Lawn, NJ
New Patient Information
Feedback
Dr. Butler’s Book
Career
(201) 651-9100
Oakland Spine News
Dr. Brad’s Weekly Health Update: Are you nuts? New research on the benefits of a nut-rich diet
September 27, 2016
Nut consumption associated with reduced signs of inflammation.
A new study of over 5,000 participants has revealed an association between greater nut intake and reduced levels of inflammation. Investigators found that those who consumed 5 or more servings of nuts per week had lower levels of biomarkers related to inflammation than those who seldom or never ate nuts. In addition, individuals who substituted 3 servings of red meat, processed meat, eggs, or refined grains per week with nuts had significantly lower levels of inflammatory biomarkers. Study author Dr. Ying Bao writes, “Population studies have consistently supported a protective role of nuts against cardiometabolic disorders such as cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes, and we know that inflammation is a key process in the development of these diseases… Our new work suggests that nuts may exert their beneficial effects in part by reducing systemic inflammation.” American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, July 2016
Stopping exercise reduces blood flow to the brain.
Researchers from the University of Maryland examined cerebral blood flow in healthy, physically fit older adults between the ages of 50-80 before and after a 10-day period during which they stopped exercising. Using MRIs, researchers found a significant decrease in blood flow to several brain regions, including the hippocampus, after the participants paused their exercise routines. Past research has shown that the hippocampus is known to deteriorate quickly with a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease. The findings adds to the growing scientific understanding of the importance of physical activity in relation to cognitive health. Lead author Dr. J. Carson Smith writes, “We know that if you are less physically active, you are more likely to have cognitive problems and dementia as you age.” Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience, August 2016
Vitamin D may lower risk of asthma attacks.
Taking a vitamin D supplement along with standard treatment may reduce the risk of severe asthma attacks. Researchers analyzed data from 9 studies that assessed how vitamin D supplementation influenced both asthma symptoms and asthma attacks. The review revealed that the risk of hospital admission or emergency room visits due to severe asthma attacks dropped from 6% to 3% with vitamin D supplementation. The research team also found that vitamin D supplementation reduced the need for steroid treatment for asthma attacks. Further research is needed to determine whether these outcomes can be seen in all patients or only individuals who have low vitamin D levels to begin with. European Respiratory Society International Congress, September 2016
FDA bans antibacterial soaps.
The Food and Drug Administration has issued a ban on the sale of antibacterial soaps after manufacturers failed to show that antibacterial products were any better than ordinary soap and water at preventing the spread of germs. Experts from the FDA add that other health concerns related to long-term use of the active ingredients in antibacterial products—such as possible effects on the thyroid, estrogen, and testosterone systems—contributed to the decision. Food and Drug Administration, September 2016
At-home exercises benefit chronic neck pain patients.
While doctors of chiropractic commonly incorporate patient education and home-based exercises into a neck pain patient’s treatment plan, some patients are less likely to follow their doctor’s instruction. The results of a new study indicate that patients who perform recommended home-based exercises achieve better outcomes. Among the 200 chronic neck pain patients in the study, those who performed specific home-based exercise showed significant improvement in physical and mental quality of life, depression, cervical pressure pain threshold, cervical extension movement, and muscle function. Manual Therapy, August 2016
Our mission is to help our patients to live longer, healthier, happier, pain-free lives.
Yours in health,
Dr. Brad Butler, DC
Latest News from OSPT
Diverse Techniques With Unique Results
Seek Joint Pain Treatment Now
Drugs & Surgery Are Not A Quick Fix
Screen Time to Back Pain
One Stop for Chiropractic & PT Care
Chiropractic Care & Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
You Can Avoid a Health Emergency
Is Surgery Your Best Option?
Don’t wait another minute to start living your healthiest, most authentic life.
Call today! (201) 651-9100
Our Services
Chiropractic Care
Physical Therapy and Rehab Center
The Butler Spine Program
Deep Tissue Laser Therapy
Acupuncture
Massage Therapy
Our Locations
Oakland, NJ
340 Ramapo Valley Road(201) 651-9100
Wayne, NJ
1255 Hamburg Turnpike(973) 310-3800
Fair Lawn, NJ
20-19 Fair Lawn Avenue(201) 651-9100
Follow Us Online
Recent Tweets
Are you looking for an amazing career opportunity to join the best Physical Therapy team in town? OSPT IS NOW EXPAN… https://t.co/rg4urYcIum
Feb 21, 2019 - 9:30am
Sound Familiar? Oakland Spine and Physical Therapy can help! We utilize all the therapies we have under one roof to… https://t.co/ZPiRIyuPd3
Feb 21, 2019 - 9:30am
Join Our Email List
Stay up-to-date with the latest news and offers from Oakland Spine and Physical Therapy.
* To qualify for same day guarantee, please call and mention our guarantee when requesting a same day appointment. Call must be received before 11am on normal days of operation. Offer may depend on type of care and insurance verification.
© Copyright 2019 Oakland Spine & Physical Therapy, All Rights Reserved.