Feel better with exercise – Self Care As A Revolutionary Act
Skip to content
Self Care As A Revolutionary Act
Small, daily action steps for embracing self-care as a priority.
Feel better with exercise
Posted on August 4, 2015 August 4, 2015 by Barbara
Exercise can ease depression or anxiety by giving you a mood boost, a feeling of control and/or serving as a complement to prescriptions. Here’s how:
Exercise provides a distraction from troubling thoughts. When your mind is racing it can feel like you are trapped in a painful thought spiral. Getting active can interrupt this spiral by shifting your focus from your mind to your body in motion.
Exercise gives you a feeling of accomplishment. Many things that happen throughout the day feel like they are beyond our control. Deciding to head for the gym or for a walk around the block provides a positive focus with immediate positive feedback. You benefit from pride in making and keeping a promise to yourself as well as the mood boost of being active.
A Harvard Health Publications article titled, Exercise and Depression asserts that regular exercise improves mood in people with mild to moderate depression. Researchers believe this is because exercise releases endorphins, chemicals that impart a feel good effect as they course through the body. You may be able to reduce symptoms of depression with just a 35 minute walk, 5 days a week.
Exercise may also offer some people alternative or complementary options for managing anxiety and insomnia.
If you are looking for a fun way to boost mood, banish depression and ease anxiety, exercise is it. Countless studies have shown that exercise is like medicine. Use it as your personal prescription to not only look your best but to feel your best, too.
Advertisements
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in revolutionary self careTagged be healthier, cut your risk of diabetes, daily survival, feel better with exercise, fitness tips, getting started with exerciseLeave a comment
Post navigation
← I am always in control of myself…you cannot take me out of my character
Make time for what matters →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Recent Comments
Barbara on November Self Care Calend…
radquitemad on November Self Care Calend…
Barbara on Make time for what matter…
Augustus on Forgiving your mother
carelessism on Morning Meditation
Advertisements
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Blogging Fusion
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: