Natural Medicines - Low Vitamin D Levels Might Increase Asthma Attacks
Login Subscribe
Advanced Search
Databases
Food, Herbs & Supplements
Health & Wellness
Sports Medicine
Comparative Effectiveness
Manufacturers
Commercial Products
Fixed Herbal Combinations
Tools
Interaction Checker
Nutrient Depletion
Effectiveness Checker
Adverse Effects Checker
Pregnancy & Lactation Checker
Charts
Natural MedWatch
CE/CME Center
Clinical Management Series
Colleagues Interact
News
eNewsletter
About Us
Our Team
Editorial Principles and Process
Explore Features
Testimonials
Other TRC Products
Contact Us
Home > News > 2014 > November > Low Vitamin D Levels Might Increase Asthma Attacks
< Back
Print
Feedback
News
Copyright © 2019 Natural Medicines (www.naturalmedicines.com)
November 2014
Low Vitamin D Levels Might Increase Asthma Attacks
New research suggests that having low vitamin D levels might increase the risk of asthma attacks in people with asthma.
Vitamin D is found in many foods, including fish, eggs, fortified milk, and cod liver oil. The sun also adds to the body's daily production of vitamin D, and as little as 10 minutes of exposure is thought to prevent deficiency. People with asthma may have an increased risk of vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D may help reduce inflammation, decrease asthma severity, and improve treatment.
In a recent study, researchers analyzed data on 308,000 adults 22-50 years-old with documented vitamin D levels. Of the participants, 21,237, or 6.9 percent, were identified as having asthma diagnosed by a physician.
The researchers found that participants with vitamin D deficiency were 25 percent more likely to experience asthma attacks when compared to those with normal vitamin D levels. However, there was no link between vitamin D deficiency and the risk of developing asthma.
The authors concluded that vitamin D levels should be monitored in people with asthma and in those who experience recurrent asthma attacks. Further research is warranted.
For information about vitamin D, please visit Natural Standard’s Food, Herbs & Supplements Database.
For information about integrative therapies for asthma, please visit Natural Standard’s Comparative Effectiveness Database.
References
Confino-Cohen R, Brufman I, Goldberg A, et al. Vitamin D, asthma prevalence and asthma exacerbations: a large adult population-based study. Allergy. 2014 Dec;69(12):1673-80.
Natural Standard: The Authority on Integrative Medicine.
The information in this brief report is intended for informational purposes only, and is meant to help users better understand health concerns. This information should not be interpreted as specific medical advice. Users should consult with a qualified healthcare provider for specific questions regarding therapies, diagnosis and/or health conditions, prior to making therapeutic decisions. Copyright © 2019 Natural Medicines Inc. Commercial distribution or reproduction prohibited. Natural Medicines is the leading provider of high-quality, evidence-based, clinically-relevant information on natural medicine, dietary supplements, herbs, vitamins, minerals, functional foods, diets, complementary practices, CAM modalities, exercises and medical conditions. Monograph sections include interactions with herbs, drugs, foods and labs, contraindications, depletions, dosing, toxicology, adverse effects, pregnancy and lactation data, synonyms, safety and effectiveness.
Ⓒ 2019 Therapeutic Research Center
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Technical Support | Site Map | Contact Us