Music Therapy - Ya Tafari Music
Ya Tafari Music
Home
Music Therapy
Articles
YaTafari's Schedule
Online Store
About YaTafari
Contact Us
Music Therapy
Music Therapy
Music has a number of therapeutic benefits. These are discussed briefly in this article.
1. Depression Reduction
Music is created from the spirit world. there are may reasons for Music Therapy. Music is not just for entertainment, but also for good health. There is where the Music Practitioner comes in to address the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual needs of people who have depression and need reduction or transformation. Those individuals may have a need to:
- Live in tranquility
- Move from the natural to the spiritual
- Move from sadness to happiness
Music, as well as caring for others, helps reduce depression immediately.
2. Relaxation
When you look at the pictures on the CDs, imagine that you are there on the beach. Go to a park or sit quietly. Let the music take you to paradise. Listen to every sound. don't think too much. Just listen and relax - even if you are at work on a break or at lunch. Relax your mind, body and spirit.
3. Healing
Music healed King Saul, king of Israel, when he was sick. Read it in the bible (1 Samuel 16:14-17). When I was a boy about 11 or 12 years old, my mother was sick in bed. I took my guitar and played music and she was healed. She got up and started cooking and cleaning. Now I play the harp, piano, guitar and different kinds of percussion instruments. Thank you GOD for music.
4. Sleep
Count sheep or play music. You need your sleep and rest. Just lie there and let the music do its spiritual part for you. Thinking is not listening. Listen to the instruments that are being played...Compositions I have created from within and from without. Now go to sleep.
5. Meditation
I go to the park to meditate. You may sit in a chair, read or just go for a walk - however you want. The music will help you to do it, especially the harp, piano and strings. My CDs use these instruments, especially, Loving Kindness.
6. Prayer
My favorite thing. I talk to God about everything:
- about my faults
- my wife
- my music
- my friends
- my family
- and even people I want to meet
And he helps me with all things. He prepares me to meet people. Remember if no one else will, God will listen and help you. Have faith in GOD.
Musically yours,
YaTafari
Copyright YaTafari.org 2018
Home
Music Therapy
Articles
YaTafari's Schedule
Online Store
About YaTafari
Contact Us