Verruca Pedis: Warts the Best Intervention? – FootNotes Publishing
Skip to content
FootNotes Publishing
Ankling The Issues In Podiatry
Menu
JM Podiatry
Soft Tissue
The D-Generation: Achillies Tendinopathy on a Continuum
Acute Ankle Injury Rehabilitation: A Case Study
Turf Toe: Hyperextension of the Metatarsal Phalangeal Joint
Tight Knots and Stiff Muscles A Look at Myofascial Release
High Ankle Sprains: Syndesmosis Injury
Recoiling in Pain: Achilles Tendon Injury
Shin Splints: An Overview of an Umbrella Term
Proximal Muscle Strength and Foot Injury
Plantar Aponeurosis: Injury, Treatment and Differential Diagnosis
Ankle Sprains: Lateral Ligaments, Instability and Rehabilitation
The Devil in Heels: Exploring the Risk of High Heels
Plantar Fascial Injury
Hard Tissue
Sesamoid Disorders
Osteoarthritis: Joint Degeneration
BREAKING BONE: An Overview of Stress Fractures and Subsequent Management
The Adolescent Athlete’s Achillies Heel: Sever’s Disease – An Overview
Development of a Childs Foot
Sports Performance
Foot Strike Pattern During Running and Athletic Performance
The Evolution of Athletic Footwear: A History
The Pain Game: Pain Perception
The Pain Game: A Very Basic Anatomical and Physiological Process Review
Cycling and the Foot
Proximal Muscle Strength and Foot Injury
Foot Strike Pattern and Associated Injuries
Metabolic Cost and Foot Strike Pattern Associated with Shoe Type
Tying Up Those Loose Ends: Lacing Techniques
What to Look For in a Running/Walking Shoe?
The Evolution of Athletic Footwear: A History
Rotating Your Tyres: Why it’s Important to Have Multiple Pairs of Shoes
Cycling Shoes and Orthotics
Reliability and Validity of Lower Limb Biomechanical Assessments: Can You Trust Someone Else’s Work?
Technology in Practice: Video Gait Analysis
Developing and Achieving Goals for Sport and Life
Interviews
Cameron Conquers Championship for Div 1 BigV
Nikki Takes On World’s Toughest Race….AND WINS!!!
Carlton’s Cameron Giles Navicular Nightmare
Douealing It Out! Liz Doueal and Her Time Spent on the Bike
Wynd Burn: Nikki Makes Top Ten
Talking Hockey With The Top End’s Top Striker – Jamie Hullick
Allied Health Interview 2: Osteopath
Allied Health Interview 1: Myotherapy
Heat, Wynd and Badwater: What it takes to represent Australia in an Ultra Marathon
Evidence In Podiatry Practice: An Interview With The Run Research Junkie Himself – Craig Payne
Moving Freely With MSK Therapy: Combining Evidence Based Medicine and Clinical Evidence
Challenging Footwear Perceptions: An Interview With Tim Brandson
Dermatology
Smoking and the Foot
I’ve Got An Itch To Scratch: Athletes Foot (Tinea Pedis)
Falling Victim to Friction: Callous, Corns and Blisters
In-Grown Toe Nails: What you should really do!
Verruca Pedis: Warts the Best Intervention?
Dealing with Thickened Nails
Diabetes and The Foot
Addressing Ingrown Toe Nails: Wives Tales and Wise Tales
Understanding The Enhance Primary Care (EPC) Plan
Contributing
22/04/2015 14/04/2016 FootNotesLeave a Comment on Verruca Pedis: Warts the Best Intervention?
Verruca Pedis: Warts the Best Intervention?
Verruca Pedis the common plantar wart is not just a viral lesion kept to the population of small children and swimmers. The foreign body can appear on any individual regardless of social status, amount of exposure to the viral particles or age. Plantar warts have the ability to spread quickly among those who are immune-suppressed, those under-going radiation therapies, chemotherapy, and transplants of organs or HIV positive.
The interventions used to treat plantar warts vary tremendously, some cause pain, some do not but all seem to have the same aim and duration of treatment regardless of that which is chosen. Within this article we make an overview of the treatments available, what the evidence states and how the plantar warts come to be.
Proliferation at the prickle cell layer is a result of the infected cells of the basal layer undergoing increased mitosis; this eventually leads to an exaggeration of the papillae of the dermo-epidermal junction. This occurrence encourages terminal capillaries to be drawn towards the superficial layers of the skin resulting in the vascularity of the warts. The Vascularity of the warts is often presented as dark pin prick spots within the lesion which may bleed when debrided.
Sonographic imaging of healthy plantar skin has revealed showed a bilaminar parallel hypoechoic structure with a virtual hypoechoic space in between. Blood flow is depicted as thin venous vessels within the subcutaneous tissue (Wortsman, Sazunic, & Jemec, 2009). Alternatively, infected tissues showed an endophytic (invaginating structure) which was hypoechoic and involved both the epidermis and superficial dermis layers. Arterial vessels are present in at the bottom of most lesions.
Post treatment it is not uncommon for warts to reappear following successful treatment. It is often difficult to remove the entirety of the wart leaving a source for further infection in the future (Watkin, 2006).
Verruca Pedis (VP) are the most common dermatological infection. They appear as round keratotic surfaced benign lesions with well defined limits and deep extension into the superficial layers of the skin due to external pressures during gait. VP are a cutaneous presentation of HPV (human papilloma virus) with a prevalence of approximately 5% in children and adolescents, with females at higher risk than males (Nuno Manuel Pinto, 2010). There is a high transference rate of the virus if regular tissue comes in contact with the infection.
Diagnosis is generally a straight forward procedure, however, if the wart has been previously treated, is not responding to intervention or is not clinically relatable then it is important to not discount the following possibilities.
HPV is indirectly linked with epithelial malignancy; these growths tend to be severely painful, red, discoloured and swollen with growth characteristics. Plane warts which can appear on the plantar or dorsal aspects of the foot have the potential to transform into a rare and extremely autosomal recessive disorder known as Epidermodysplasia verruciformis.
Although not common in podiatry circles, plantar warts can be mistaken for corn or callus, alternatively it has been seen that some practitioners have mistaken a corn or callus for a wart and performed similar treatments.
Treatment can be derived as unnecessary due to spontaneous resolution being found in over 50% of cases within 2 years, however if causing pain, irritation or aesthetically displeasing then treatment can be justified. No particular treatment has been found to be 100% effective and therefore the use of a combination of treatments may yield better results (Watkin, 2006).The following are examples of commonly used treatments which have minimum limitations;
Salicylic acid dissolves intercellular cement and therefore desquamation of without affecting the epithelial cells.
Duct tape has a number of theories attached to its use although evidence remains weak at best, however, it is said that the duct tape occludes the wart and activates the immune system of the body to attack the wart. Additionally, the tape then acts as a debriding agent on removal.
Cryotherapy freezes the area using liquid nitrogen on cotton buds or nozzled spray after the area of concern has been debrided via scalpel. This occurs at a minimum of once every three weeks and is disputed about its use on small children given the amount of pain associated with it.
Essential Oils – wintergreen, lavender, lemongrass and peppermint have all been mentioned to have a positive outcome on plantar warts during a case study of a immune-suppressed patients who was contraindicated to most other treatments.
Homologous Auto-implantation aims to induced healthy cell mediated immune responses through the use of an 18 gauge needle removing a depth of wart tissue and placing it sub-cutaneously.
Needling Methods can be used to once again spark a strengthened immune response.
All methods have a similar goal in the treatment of plantar warts which is to increase the body’s immune response while additionally removing the superficial layer of the plantar wart. After reading the evidence I have begun to use the following treatment procedure for the Verruca pedis is as follows but can be modified to the clinical presentation and needs of the patient;
Debridement of over lying callus until such time as capillary bleed is achieved.
Donut padding created from 5mm felt which is then filled 60% Salicylic Acid (Upton’s Paste)
Dressed with Hypoallergenic taping and rigid sports taping for better hold
Education is to keep area dry for 2 days before removing and soaking feet nightly for 20min before applying duct tape. This is to be repeated until next consult where the process will be repeated until such time as the Verruca resolves.
Conclusion
In conclusion, the evidence for any particular intervention associated with plantar wart treatment is not strong. Questions remain about how aggressive a treatment should be, the timing between treatments and what constitutes the need for treatment given that such a high percentage of the lesions regress within a two year period.
Nonetheless, given the highly contagious nature of the HPV and the human emotive to have reduced concern for others who may be susceptible to contracting the virus, elimination of existing exposures is important for those who are at risk of spreading the contamination further.
Next month FootNotes Blogging will look at an Overview of Stress Fractures, Part One of our Pain Series and our next athlete interview. Until then, thank you for reading and take care.
Jackson McCosker
Director /Chief Editor
References
Coates, C. M., Boehm, A. P., Leonheart, E. E., & Vlahovic, T. C. (2006). Malignant Transformation of Plantar Verrucae. Advances in Skin and Wound Care , 384 – 385.
Forbes, M. A., & Schmid, M. M. (2006). Use of OTC Essential Oils to Clear Plantar Warts. The Nurse Practitioner , 53- 57.
Longhurst, B., & Bristow, I. (2013). The Treatment of Verrucae Pedis Using Falknor’s Needling Method: A Review of 46 Cases. Journal of Clinical Medicine , 13 – 21.
Murley, G., & Perrin, B. (2011). Dermatology Resource Manual. Bundoora: University Erlangen Department of Dermatology.
Nuno Manuel Pinto. (2010). Treating Plantar Warts: What to do When Patients Take Maters into Their Own Hands. Nursing Times .
Shivakumar, V., Okade, R., & Rajkumar, V. (2009). Autoimplantation Therapy of Multiple Warts. Indian Journal of Dermatol Venereol Leprol , 593 – 595.
Watkin, P. (2006). Identifying and Treating Plantar Warts. Nursing Standard , 50-54.
Wortsman, X., Sazunic, I., & Jemec, G. B. (2009). Sonography of Plantar Warts. Journal of Ultrasound Medicine , 787 – 793.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
Email
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Reddit
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Published by FootNotes
FootNotes Blogging was established by new graduate podiatrist Jackson McCosker in 2014 as a means of motivation to stay up to date with current evidence, clinical practice management, increasing client base and building professional credibility among peers and community organizations at all levels. FootNotes Blogging aims to provide accurate, up to date and well thought out management information in both a professional and entertaining format. Although evidence based management is promoted within the forum, it should also be noted that much of that published by FootNotes Blogging is subjective in nature and general in suggested management practices. It is recommended that those reading seek one on one medical advice from a medical practitioner or podiatrist before following any advice [as per disclaimer].	View all posts by FootNotes
Categories UncategorizedTags @footnotespod, adolescents, children, common, dermatology, FootNotes, pedis, plantar, swimmers, verruca, warts
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Post navigation
Previous The Adolescent Athlete’s Achillies Heel: Sever’s Disease – An Overview
Next BREAKING BONE: An Overview of Stress Fractures and Subsequent Management
Social
View @JMPodiatry’s profile on Facebook
View @JMPodiatry’s profile on Twitter
View @JMPodiatry’s profile on Instagram
View JacksonMcCosker’s profile on LinkedIn
Search for:
Search for:
Recent Posts
Standing Strong: Short Foot Exercises in Practice
Patient Retention: Why Saying Goodbye Is Not A Bad Thing
Hamstring Rehabilitation For High Performance Athletes
Taking The Spin Out Of Cycling and Orthotics
Location Mill Park, Victoria E-mail jackson.mccosker@gmail.com
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
search previous next tag category expand menu location phone mail time cart zoom edit close