Fever (High Temperature) | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Health Info
Signs and Symptoms
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Download PDF
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Fever
Authored by Dr Laurence Knott, Reviewed by Dr Helen Huins | Last edited 27 Nov 2018 | Certified by The Information Standard
A high temperature is called a fever (or sometimes a high fever). Fever itself is not an illness. A fever is usually a symptom of an underlying condition, most often an infection.
In this article
What is classified as a fever?
What is a normal temperature?
How do I take a temperature?
How is a fever treated?
When should you see a doctor?
What causes fever?
How common is a fever?
In This Article
Fever
In this article
What is classified as a fever?
What is a normal temperature?
How do I take a temperature?
How is a fever treated?
When should you see a doctor?
What causes fever?
How common is a fever?
Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE
What is classified as a fever?
Your body temperature fluctuates slightly throughout the day. A high temperature is also known as a fever. Generally, a fever is a rise of body temperature above the normal daily variation. Normal temperature varies depending on the person, the body site where temperature is measured, and the time of day.
The actual temperature causing a fever varies between different people and depends on what their usual temperature is. It is usually agreed that a person with a temperature of 38°C or higher has a fever. However, a temperature over 37.5°C can often be considered to be a fever in many children. Fevers can occur in children and adults and can be very common. Fevers are often accompanied by sweating.
What is a normal temperature?
Your normal body temperature changes throughout the day. These changes can be caused by exercise, eating, sleeping and even the time of day. Your temperature is usually highest in the early evening and lowest in the early hours of the morning.
Your average body temperature, taken with a thermometer in your mouth, is 37°C, but anywhere between 36.5°C and 37.2°C is often considered normal. Armpit temperatures are 0.2°C to 0.3°C lower than this.
How do I take a temperature?
There are different ways of taking your temperature. The quickest and easiest way of taking a temperature is with a thermometer. This can be by an electronic or chemical dot thermometer. A thermometer can be placed either under your armpit or in your ear. The forehead thermometers are no longer recommended.
As a parent it can be extremely worrying if your child has a high temperature (fever). However, having a fever is very common and often clears up by itself without treatment.
How do you know if you have a fever without a thermometer?
Using a thermometer is the best way to tell if you have a fever. However, if you don't have one, the following will give you a rough idea:
Feel your forehead with the back of your hand. This is much more sensitive to temperature than the palm.
Look in the mirror. If you have a fever, your cheeks may be flushed.
Check for general symptoms of infection, such as aches and pains, tiredness or muscle weakness.
Check your wee - if it's darker than usual you may be getting dehydrated from excess sweating.
Ask anyone around if they feel hot - obvious, really but if they do, it could just mean you need to turn down the heating.
How is a fever treated?
Adults
Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE
A high temperature (fever) is usually associated with physical discomfort and most people feel better when a fever is treated. However, depending on your age, physical condition and the underlying cause of your fever, you may or may not require medical treatment for the fever alone. Many experts believe that fever is a natural bodily defense against infection.
Your doctor will examine you and try to determine the underlying cause for your fever. If it is due to infection with a germ (a bacterial infection) - for example, a urine infection - you may be given antibiotics. You may need to have some tests, especially if a cause other than an infection is likely. Testing may include:
Blood tests.
Urine tests.
X-rays to determine the cause, especially where a cause other than an infection is a possibility.
Paracetamol or ibuprofen may help to reduce the fever.
Children
Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE
In children, paracetamol and ibuprofen are usually only recommended if the child is distressed with the fever. Remember that just because a fever responds to medicine, this does not mean that you should stop looking out for signs of serious illness (such as a non-blanching rash).
Note: in children, giving paracetamol or ibuprofen does not reduce the risk of a seizure caused by a fever occurring. See the separate leaflet called Febrile Seizure (Febrile Convulsion).
Warm (tepid) sponging is no longer recommended for children with a fever. Drinking plenty of fluids is important when you (or your child) have a fever. Keeping fluid levels up is important to reduce the risk of lack of fluid in the body (dehydration).
When should you see a doctor?
You should contact a doctor if you or your child have a high temperature (fever) and:
Your child has a fit.
You or your child develop a rash that does not disappear when you press a glass on it (a non-blanching rash).
You or your child are becoming more unwell.
The fever lasts longer than five days.
You should contact a doctor if you have a fever and have worsening symptoms - for example, a rash, stiff neck, shortness of breath or chest pains.
What causes fever?
High temperature (fever) is caused by the release of certain chemicals by your immune system, usually as a result of infection or inflammation. Fever is an important sign that a person is unwell and a cause should usually be found.
Most fevers are caused by infections or other illnesses. Viral infections are very common causes of a fever. The high body temperature makes it more difficult for the germs (bacteria or viruses) which cause infections to survive.
Fever caused by infections
Common conditions that can cause fevers include:
Respiratory tract infections and colds: see the separate leaflet called Common Cold (Upper Respiratory Tract Infections).
Flu (influenza): see the separate leaflet called Influenza and Flu-like Illness.
Infection of the gut (gastroenteritis): see the separate leaflets called Gastroenteritis in Children and Gastroenteritis.
Ear infections: see the separate leaflet called Ear Infection (Otitis Media).
Infection of the tonsils: see the separate leaflet called Tonsillitis.
Kidney or urinary tract infections: see the separate leaflets called Urine Infection in Children, Cystitis (Urine Infection) in Women, Urine Infection in Pregnancy, Urine Infection in Men, Kidney Infection (Pyelonephritis) and What do kidneys do?
Common childhood illnesses: for example, chickenpox (varicella), scarlet fever, rubella and whooping cough (pertussis). See the separate leaflets called Chickenpox in Children, Scarlet Fever, Rubella (German Measles) and Whooping Cough.
If you have been abroad and develop a fever, it is important to see a doctor. Infections sometimes caught abroad can also cause a fever. See the separate leaflets called Malaria, Tuberculosis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B and Lyme Disease.
Your child's temperature can also be raised when their teeth start to develop (their teething period), following some vaccinations, or if they overheat because of too much bedding or clothing. See the separate leaflets called Teething, Immunisation and Sudden Infant Death (Cot Death).
Fever caused by other conditions
Less commonly, fever can be caused by conditions other than infections. For example, blood clots in the leg or lung can sometimes lead to a fever developing. See the separate leaflets called Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism.
There are some conditions which cause swelling (inflammation) in the body. If you have one of these conditions, a common symptom you may experience is fever. See the separate leaflets called Rheumatoid Arthritis and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
There are also some types of cancer which can lead to a fever developing. See the separate leaflet called Cancer.
How common is a fever?
A high temperature (fever) can be really common. They are more common in children. Around 3 out of 10 young children have a fever every year and a fever is one of the most common reasons for a child to be seen by their GP.
Did you find this information useful? yes no
Thanks for your feedback!
Why not subscribe to the newsletter?
Email address *
We'd love to send you our articles and latest news by email, giving you the best opportunity to stay up to date with expert written health and lifestyle content.
By clicking 'Subscribe' you agree to our Terms and conditions and Privacy policy.
Subscribe
Thanks for your feedback. if you would like to report a specific issue with this page, please visit our feedback page.
Thank you, we just sent a survey email to confirm your preferences.
Further reading and references
Fever in under 5s - assessment and initial management; NICE Guideline (updated August 2017)
Barbi E, Marzuillo P, Neri E, et al; Fever in Children: Pearls and Pitfalls. Children (Basel). 2017 Sep 14(9). pii: children4090081. doi: 10.3390/children4090081.
de Bont EG, Loonen N, Hendrix DA, et al; Childhood fever: a qualitative study on parents' expectations and experiences during general practice out-of-hours care consultations. BMC Fam Pract. 2015 Oct 716:131. doi: 10.1186/s12875-015-0348-0.
Walter EJ, Hanna-Jumma S, Carraretto M, et al; The pathophysiological basis and consequences of fever. Crit Care. 2016 Jul 1420(1):200. doi: 10.1186/s13054-016-1375-5.
Related Information
Fever and Night Sweats Pro
Paracetamol (Calpol, Disprol, Hedex, Panadol)
Febrile Convulsions Pro
Menopause and its Management Pro
Pyrexia of Unknown Origin Pro
View all
Why do women feel the cold more than men?
5 minutes reading time 24-Jan-19
Health Tools
Feeling unwell?
Assess your symptoms online with our free symptom checker.
Start symptom checker
Article Information
Last Reviewed 27 November 2018
Next Review 26 November 2021
Document ID 29146 (v2)
Author Dr Laurence Knott
Peer reviewer Dr Helen Huins
The information on this page is written and peer reviewed by qualified clinicians.
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up