Home Remedies for Croup in Toddlers
Fogut
Home
Health
Women’s Health
Fitness
Contact
Search for:
Home Remedies for Croup in Toddlers
Posted on July 27, 2017 April 21, 2018 Updated on 21 April, 2018 by fogut
Croup is usually a common problem which occurs mostly in babies or toddlers. Croup mainly attack the windpipe, bronchi, and larynx. Sometimes croup called as laryngitis- bronchitis- tracheostomy. It is a type of infection that irritates your infant’s upper airways and seeds them to inflate. This condition can cause a problem in breathing. Croup mainly affects the boy child more than the girl child. It spreads with the outcome of viral infections. An infant with croup may have a noisy cough, voice and breathe. Croup may lead to inflammatory infections like tiredness, soreness, swelling, redness, and irritation.
Contents
Causes of Croup
Symptoms of Croup
Natural Remedies for Croup in Babies
Steam
Prevent Dehydration
Essential Oil Massage
Ginger
Honey
Rest
Turmeric
Upright Position
Sponge Bath
Moisten the Air
Causes of Croup
Croup is most commonly caused by several infections or viruses. Parainfluenza is the common cause of croup in toddlers. Some other causes of croup are in order.
Bacteria and viruses in the body can cause croup.
Inflammatory diseases.
Consumption of unhygienic foods and fluids as well.
Do not permit your child to sit with sick people; this condition may cause croup.
It may usually cause by some common viruses like cold viruses and influenza.
Bacterial infections and allergies can also cause it.
An infant with light croup can develop severe croup.
Symptoms of Croup
Croup is the general problem that usually occurs in growing Infants or babies. Some most common signs and symptoms of croup can irritate your toddler at night.
Following are some ordinary symptoms of croup:
Fever.
Cold.
Cough.
Throat infection or throat pain.
Frustration and tiredness.
A runny nose.
The problem in breathing.
Discomfort, agitation, pale skin.
Sleepiness.
Inability to drink water and other fluids.
Rapid heartbeat.
Croaky voice.
Difficulty in consuming foods.
Croaky voice during croup is most frequently noticeable when infant or baby coughs or cries.
Natural Remedies for Croup in Babies
Some most common and natural home remedies for croup in toddlers are listed below-
Steam
Steam is the best natural remedy that helps to overcome the signs and symptoms of croup in toddlers. Steam is usually generated from a hot or warm water. Warm steam helps to relieve obstruction and make toddlers breathe easily. Steam can helps to release germs and bacterias from child’s body.
How to follow this remedy:
You just need to boil the proper amount of water and close the door to stop steam.
Convince your child to inhale the warm steam for 25- 30 minutes. Warm steam surely relieves your child from croup.
Repeat this natural remedy regularly for faster recovery.
Prevent Dehydration
To stop or prevent dehydration is the best way to lessen breathing problem in your toddler. It is usually the most efficient way that can help your child to breathe properly. It is very important to keep the body hydrated. You just need to give the proper amount of fluids or juices to your toddler for faster recovery. Breastfeed your child that will help to overcome croup and other viruses in your child’s body. It mainly helps to enhance the overall health of your toddler. If your toddler denies consuming liquids or fluids, then convince him to drink a few juices very frequently.
You just need to prepare proper amount of fluids for your toddler.
Mainly breast milk, orange juice is very effective for a child to recover faster.
Convince your child to drink the proper amount of fluids regularly.
You can also give chopped frozen fruits to your baby.
Repeat this remedy regularly to overcome croup and cough.
Essential Oil Massage
Oil massage is usually the most common and best way that helps to ease breathing and make muscles strong. Normally, oil massage promotes relaxation in your child’s body and make him sleep better. Massage your child’s chest, hands, and legs with essential oil to recover as early as possible.
How to apply this remedy:
You need to mix at least 9 to 10 droplets of oregano or eucalyptus oil in a warm cup.
Massage your toddler’s chest with that mixture of oil properly.
Especially rub your child’s body with essential oil before sleep.
Apply this remedy regularly; it will surely help to relax your child.
Ginger
Ginger is the best natural remedy that helps to overcome croup in toddlers. It is the most commonly used remedy to treat other health issues also. It usually contains antioxidant, antiviral, anti- inflammatory and antibacterial agents which help to overcome croup and reduce congestion as well. Ginger also helps to lessen inflammation in air transits. It mainly enhances the immune system for faster recovery.
How to apply this remedy:
You need to take a fresh ginger and cut it into small pieces.
Then combine those pieces of ginger in some amount of water and strain it properly to make a ginger juice.
You can also add two spoons of honey in ginger powder that will help to overcome croup faster.
Follow this remedy twice a day to overcome breathing difficulties.
Honey
Honey is the most common solution to overcome breathing problems in toddlers. It is the best way to enhance immune system with its antioxidant, antibacterial and antibiotic agents. Honey mainly helps to overcome croup in toddlers. It also helps to overcome other viruses in child’s body.
How to apply this remedy:
You just need to add 1-2 teaspoon of honey in milk or lukewarm water. Give this liquid to your infant at least three times a day regularly.
You can also add two spoons of honey in ginger powder for faster recovery.
Apply this remedy every day for your child’s speedy recovery from croup.
Rest
Rest is usually the most common and best way to overcome croup in children. It helps to heal speedily. Convince your infant to take rest properly. Rest often promote relaxation. Proper sleep can overcome tiredness and other health issues efficiently. If your toddler is suffering from croup, convince him to sleep more often.
How to follow this remedy:
Convince your infant to sleep at least 7-8 hours at night properly.
Hold your child on the shoulder to feel comfortable.
Do not allow your infant to play outside while suffering from croup.
Do not give cold medications to your toddler.
Keep your infant away from sick people.
Follow this remedy regularly to overcome viruses and infections in your child’s body.
Turmeric
Turmeric is the most common and best treatment that helps your infant to recover faster from croup infection. It has anti- oxidant and anti- inflammatory agents that help to ease breathing difficulties. It can also contribute to reduce throat infection or throat pain and boost up immune system as well.
Some tips to follow this natural remedy:
You just need to add one teaspoon of turmeric in warm milk or warm water. Give this warm turmeric milk to your toddler every morning and every night for speedy recovery.
You can also mix turmeric powder, lemon, honey and lukewarm water to form an anti- inflammatory fluid which will help your child to breathe easily.
Follow this natural remedy every day in the morning as well as at night for faster recovery.
Upright Position
The upright position is usually the best way that helps your toddler to breathe efficiently and reduces the congestion as well. Lying straight or flat can result coughing fits that will only increase the intensity of croup in toddlers.
Let your child sleep and sit properly.
You need to hold your baby on the lap to make him feel relaxed.
You can put your toddler in his favorite place or chair that will help him to breathe easily.
Regularly follow this natural remedy to overcome breathing difficulties in your child.
Sponge Bath
Sponge bath or cool water bath is the best remedy to overcome child’s fever. It usually helps to regulate your toddler’s body temperature and ease fever quickly. Cool water bath mainly relaxes your toddler and help him to sleep properly.
How to follow this remedy:
Rinse or soak a towel in cold water and clean your child’s body with that soaked towel.
Give cold shower to your toddler to overcome fever in his body.
Follow this remedy every day to recover faster.
Moisten the Air
Steamy or moist air usually helps your baby to breathe easily. You need to raise the level of Steamy air or humidity in your child’s room to enhance breathing naturally. Steamy air mainly helps to overcome obstruction and reduce the harshness of coughing.
How to use this remedy:
You just need to use a humidifier to keep the atmosphere moist in your home. Mainly use a humidifier in your toddler’s room to overcome croup faster.
The other best option is to boil some amount of water in a utensil and keep it in your child’s room to make the atmosphere moist or steamy.
You need to place a hot water or humidifier in a safe place to protect your child from unwanted incidents.
Follow this remedy regularly to relieve your child from coughing.
This writes up undoubtedly provides you a necessary information about croup in toddlers. Causes, symptoms, and remedies are briefly described to overcome croup infection. Follow the remedies regularly for your Infants faster recovery.
Posted in Health
Related Posts
Green Tea Recipes for Weight Loss
Effective Home Remedies for Back Pain as a Result of Working on a College Paper
Remove Pubic Hair Naturally
Apple Cider Vinegar for Acne
How to Get Rid of Mosquitoes at Home
Simple Tips on How to Do A Manicure at Home
Latest Posts
Know How You Assert A Part Of Yourself When You Dress
Why you Should not Trust Instagram’s Fitness Images?
How having good Household Items can Keep you Happy?
What Role do Clean Houses Play in our Health?
Why is staying Healthy so Complicated?
Top Posts
Types of Thick White Discharge
Some Natural Methods to Grow Taller Fast
Home Remedies for Abortion
Clear Watery Discharge: Everything You Need to Know About
Get to Know How to Enlarge Penis Naturally at Home
Copyright © 2017 – 2018 Fogut Media. All rights reserved. Our website content does not intend to replace medical consultation. You must see yourself a doctor for identification of the nature of an illness. Privacy Policy.
Privacy & Cookies: The website uses cookies to give you better experience. By using this website you are agree to our cookies & privacy policy. To know more visit here: Privacy Policy
About Us
Write for Us
Careers
Advertise with Us
Contact
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Html Sitemap
XML Sitemap
© 2019 Fogut. All Rights Reserved. |
Home
Health
Women’s Health
Fitness
Contact
X
X