Excedrin for Migraines and Tension-Type Headaches
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Is Excedrin Good for Treating Headaches?
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Headaches
Symptoms
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Living With
Prevention
Related Conditions
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Brain & Nervous System Headaches
Is Excedrin Good for Treating Headaches?
Print
By Colleen Doherty, MD | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated January 28, 2019
PeopleImages/Getty Images
More in Headaches
Symptoms
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Living With
Prevention
Related Conditions
Most people turn to an over-the-counter medication when they are experiencing an acute migraine attack or tension-type headache. This is sensible, as over-the-counter medications like Tylenol (acetaminophen) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), like ibuprofen and aspirin, are easily available, cheap, and do not require a doctor's visit. Even more, there are scientific studies supporting their benefit and safety in treating an episodic migraine or tension-type headache.
That said, when perusing the aisle of your local pharmacy, you have likely noticed another over-the-counter pain reliever for migraines and tension headaches—Excedrin. It's a combination analgesic that contains Tylenol (acetaminophen), aspirin, and the "eye-opening" agent caffeine.
With that, you may wonder whether Excedrin is as good (or even better) than Tylenol alone, aspirin alone, or ibuprofen alone for alleviating headaches and migraines.
Let's explore this question in a bit more detail, as the answer is not as straightforward as you may expect. In other words, there are upsides and downsides to consider when choosing Excedrin as your "go-to" medication for tension headaches or migraines.
The Upside
In a review study in The Journal of Headache and Pain, the combination of caffeine with an analgesic like Tylenol (acetaminophen), aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), and ibuprofen, was more effective in treating migraines and tension-type headaches, as compared to the analgesic medication alone.
However, you may be surprised to learn that caffeine, itself, is not a pain reliever. Rather, it increases the effect of analgesics, like aspirin and Tylenol, and it does this by enhancing their absorption within the gut.
Research shows caffeine's augmenting effect is seen at doses of 130mg or more in tension-type headaches and 100mg or more in migraine. Since over-the-counter caffeine-containing medications contain 64 to 65mg of caffeine (including Excedrin), please note that you would have to take two Excedrin tablets to derive the caffeine benefit (which is a typical dose).
As an added bonus, it's worth mentioning that a caffeine-containing headache pain reliever may have other perks. Caffeine is a stimulant, meaning it improves mood, alertness, information processing, awareness, attention, and reaction time.
So if you feel particularly fatigued or sluggish with your headache, Excedrin may not only soothe your pain but help you feel more energized.
Additionally, caffeine improves gastric motility (the physical movement of food through your digestive tract). This may be especially helpful for migraineurs, as gastric motility can be reduced during a migraine attack, leading to nausea and/or vomiting.
The Downside
Medical care is generally not black and white. In other words, it's a complex art, as not every person's body and medical history are the same. To ensure a specific medication is right for you, it's important to first talk with your doctor.
Side Effects
One downside of taking Excedrin instead of Tylenol, aspirin, or ibuprofen alone is that you may experience side effects from the caffeine. The most common side effects are:
Upset stomach
Dizziness
Nervousness
Nausea
That said, these side effects are generally mild and short-lived. Still, if you normally cannot tolerate a strong cup of coffee or are about to go into a meeting and are worried about getting a bit shaky, Excedrin may not the best choice for you at that time.
Caffeine Paradox
While caffeine can ease migraines and tension-type headaches, studies have shown that caffeine is linked to the development of migraines and the transformation from episodic to chronic migraines (15 or more migraines per month)—a paradox that leaves many of us scratching our heads.
Furthermore, caffeine withdrawal can trigger headaches as well as lead to a decrease in cognitive function, nausea, and vomiting (all in the short-term). Although, in the long-term, (and not to complicate the picture), caffeine cessation is likely beneficial for people with headaches.
In the end, if you are sensitive to caffeine, then incorporating Excedrin into your routine may not be the best"go-to" headache option for you.
See Your Primary Care Doctor
It's best to come up with a plan with your primary care doctor or headache specialist concerning which over-the-counter medication you may take if you develop a headache. This is because even though Tylenol, Excedrin, and NSAIDs are available without a prescription, they are not safe for everyone.
While not an exhaustive review, here are some examples of the concerns associated with these over-the-counter medications.
NSAIDs (including Aspirin or Aspirin-containing)
NSAIDs can cause stomach irritation and bleeding so should not be used by people on blood-thinning medications or by people with a history of stomach ulcers.
Moreover, people with certain medical problems (e.g., asthma, or kidney, heart, or liver problems) should either not take NSAIDs or should be very closely monitored by their doctor while taking one.
Finally, aspirin or aspirin-containing products (like Excedrin), should never be given to children, as they can increase a child's risk for developing a serious illness called Reye's syndrome.
Tylenol (including Tylenol-containing medications)
Many over-the-counter medications contain Tylenol (acetaminophen), like cold medicines and of course, Excedrin. With that, a person can overdose on Tylenol unintentionally, and this can lead to liver failure.
All Over-the-Counter Medications
Over-the-counter medications may interact with your prescription medications. This is why it's essential to inform your doctor of all the medications you are taking, including any vitamins or supplements.
A Word From Verywell
While research shows caffeine-containing analgesics like Excedrin are more effective in easing migraines and tension-type headaches than taking Tylenol, aspirin, or ibuprofen alone, that may not be the case for you as an individual. In the end, trust your gut and do what works for you (with the "OK" by your doctor).
Lastly, regardless of the over-the-counter medication you use, be careful to limit it to less than two to three days per week. This way you can avoid a medication overuse headache, which is when a person develops rebound headaches—a double whammy, and a problem that is particularly tricky to treat.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Derry CJ, Derry S, Moore RA. Caffeine as an analgesic adjuvant for acute pain in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Dec 11;(12):CD009281. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD009281.pub3
Lee MJ, Choi HA, Choi H, Chung CS. Caffeine discontinuation improves acute migraine treatment: a prospective clinic-based study. J Headache Pain. 2016;17(1):71. doi: 10.1186/s10194-016-0662-5.
Lipton RB, Diener H-C, Robbins MS, Garas SY, Patel K. Caffeine in the management of patients with headache. J Headache Pain. 2017;18(1):107. doi: 10.1186/s10194-017-0806-2.
Prior MJ, Codispoti JR, Fu M. A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of acetaminophen for treatment of migraine headache. Headache. 2010;50(5):819–833. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4610.2010.01638.x.
Taylor FR. (2017). Tension-type headache in adults: Acute treatment. Swanson JW, ed. UpToDate. Waltham, MA: UpToDate Inc.
Continue Reading
Article
What Can I Take Over-the-Counter for My Headache or Migraine?
Article
Is This a Tension or Stress Headache?
Article
Headaches/Migraines in Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Article
How to Cure Tension Headaches in Kids
Article
Is Ibuprofen or Acetaminophen Better?
Article
Teen Migraines and Headaches: What's Normal and Dangerous
Article
Migraine at Work? Here's How to Cope
Article
The Link Between Helicobacter Pylori Infection and Migraines
Article
Using Ibuprofen to Treat Headaches and Migraines
Article
'I Suffer from Headaches. What Are My Therapy Options?'
Article
Can Maxalt Medication Help With Your Migraines?
Article
Is It Safe to Take Tylenol for My Headache?
Article
Will Chiropractic Care Help My Headaches?
Article
Trigger Points Might Be the Culprit Behind Your Headaches
Article
Does Your Child Get Migraines?
Article
Can You Safely Take Migraine or Headache Drugs While Breastfeeding?
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more