Zinc gluconate Use During Pregnancy | Drugs.com
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Treatment Options
Dietary Supplementation
Zinc gluconate
Pregnancy Warnings
Print Share
Zinc gluconate Pregnancy and Breastfeeding Warnings
Medically reviewed by Drugs.com. Last updated on Sep 4, 2018.
Overview
Side Effects
Dosage
Professional
Interactions
Pregnancy
Zinc gluconate Pregnancy Warnings
Zinc gluconate has not been formally assigned to a pregnancy category by the FDA. Data from human and animal studies have not revealed increased risks of fetal abnormalities in association with zinc acetate or sulfate administration for all trimesters of pregnancy. The risk of fetal harm if used during pregnancy is remote. A dietary intake of 15 mg of zinc per day is recommended during pregnancy. Additional zinc gluconate should only be given during pregnancy when need has been clearly established.
See references
Zinc gluconate Breastfeeding Warnings
The recommended daily allowance of elemental zinc during lactation is 19 mg during the first 6 months and 16 mg during the second 6 months. Zinc is needed for the normal growth and development of breast-fed infants. However, the effect on the breast-fed infant of higher dosages is not known.
There are no data on the excretion of zinc gluconate into human milk. Elemental zinc is known to be excreted into human milk and may lead to copper deficiency in the nursing infant. The manufacturer recommends that women on zinc therapy not nurse their infants.
See references
References for pregnancy information
Goldenberg RL, Tamura T, Neggers Y, et al. "The effect of zinc supplementation on pregnancy outcome." JAMA 274 (1995): 463-8
References for breastfeeding information
"Product Information. Galzin (zinc acetate)." Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, North Wales, PA.
Krebs NF, Reidinger CJ, Hartley S, Robertson AD, Hambidge KM "Zinc supplementation during lactation: effects on maternal status and milk zinc concentrations." Am J Clin Nutr 61 (1995): 1030-6
Print this page
See Also...
zinc gluconate Consumer Information
Pregnancy Support Group
FDA Pregnancy Categories
Medicine use during Pregnancy
Medicine use while Breastfeeding
Safe Medications during Breastfeeding
Further information
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Medical Disclaimer
Drug Status
Rx
OTC
Availability Rx and/or OTC
N/A
CSA Schedule* Not a controlled drug
Zinc gluconate Rating
2 User Reviews 5.0/10
Drug Class
Minerals and electrolytes
Subscribe to our newsletters
News & warnings related to this drug
FDA alerts for all medications
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide