Selenium - WholeHealth Chicago Selenium - WholeHealth Chicago
2265 North Clybourn Avenue • Chicago, IL 60614 • P: 773.296.6700 • F: 773.296.1131
Search for:
About WHC
Philosophy
Case Studies
Testimonials
Videos
About WHC Videos
About our Practitioners Videos
Informational / Educational Videos
Resources
Patient Portal
For New Patients
Insurance Information
HIPPA / Privacy Notice
Recommended Reading
Education
Health Tips
Knowledge Base
Acupuncture/Traditional Chinese Medicine
Aging
Allergies & Food Sensitivities
Alternative Therapies
Big Pharma Evils
Bone Health
Candida (yeast) and Parasites
Cardiovascular Health
Case Studies
Chiropractic & Physical Medicine
Dermatology
Digestion
Diseases
Ear, Nose, & Throat
Environmental Sensitivities
Eye Care
Fibromyalgia & Chronic Fatigue
Fitness & Exercise
Health Insurance Issues
Healthy Lifestyle
Immune System
Inflammation
Integrative Medicine
Lyme Disease & Morgellons
Men’s Health
Mental Health
Nutrition, Nutritional Supplements, Vitamins, & Herbal Remedies
Pain Management
Sexual Health
Thyroid, Adrenal, & Sex Hormone Issues
Weight Issues
Women’s Health
Continuing Professional Education
Workshops
Apothecary
Contact WHC
Contact Form
Request an Appointment
Our Practitioners
Selenium
Posted on May 19, 2009 by Posted in Blog, Knowledge Base, Nutrition, Nutritional Supplements, Vitamins, & Herbal Remedies, S
What Is It?
The trace mineral selenium makes its way into our bodies because it is contained in certain foods. Over time, it becomes part of nearly every cell, with particularly high concentrations in the kidneys, liver, pancreas, spleen, and testes.
The most concentrated food source for selenium is the Brazil nut; a single one contains 120 mcg, (which is about twice the RDA). Seafood in general, as well as poultry and meat, are also good sources. So are grains, especially oats and brown rice.
The concentration of selenium in all these food sources depends on a variable that’s very hard for the consumer to determine: the level of selenium in the soil in which the plant grew (and which the animal then ate).
Only over the past two decades have scientists begun to understand just what a vital role selenium plays in numerous biological functions. Perhaps its most crucial job is to prevent disease.
Health Benefits
Selenium has many tasks to perform in the body. It helps to boost the immune system and fight off infection, providing a general increase in the body’s defense against dangerous bacteria, viruses, and cancer cells. On a basic cellular level, every cell in the body needs a particular hormone from the thyroid gland that selenium helps to convert to an active form.
Perhaps the most famed use of selenium in supplement form is as an antioxidant; it helps to mop up dangerous molecules known as free radicals that can damage and alter healthy cells. It has also been recommended for staving off the effects of aging. In many cases there’s relatively weak evidence for these uses. But not all.
Specifically, selenium may help to:
Prevent cancer. Test-tube studies indicate that in addition to fostering healthy cell growth and division, selenium discourages the formation of tumors.
When researchers at Cornell University and the University of Arizona pooled results from 5-year studies designed to assess the effects of selenium supplements (200 mcg daily), they came up with some startling findings: Compared with the rest of the population, participants had 63% fewer prostate cancers, 58% fewer colorectal tumors, and 46% fewer lung cancers. Overall, their death rate from cancer was 39% lower than the average.
Earlier studies had found that in people already diagnosed with cancer, those whose selenium levels were lowest developed more subsequent tumors than those whose selenium levels were highest. Individuals with low selenium levels also had a greater likelihood of cancer recurrence, were at higher risk of having the cancer spread to new organs, and generally survived shorter periods of time.
Protect against heart attack and stroke. Selenium may decrease the “stickiness” of the blood, lessening its tendency to clot and thus reducing the risk of heart attack and stroke. In addition, the mineral may encourage healthy heart function by increasing the proportion of HDL (“good”) cholesterol to LDL (“bad”) cholesterol. People who have already had a heart attack or a stroke, or who smoke, appear to benefit the most from selenium.
Guard against cataracts and macular degeneration. Selenium may help prevent the two most common causes of impaired vision and blindness in older Americans–cataracts and macular degeneration–by providing antioxidant actions that fight free radicals. It’s these free radicals, after all, that often damage the eye’s lens (the site of cataracts) and the macula at the center of the eye’s retina (the site of macular degeneration).
Promote healing of cold sores and shingles. When the herpes virus erupts from a dormant state in the body, painful cold sores and shingles may appear. Selenium, an immune-system booster, may help suppress this kind of eruption. Interestingly, findings published in Agriculture Research indicate that mice with low levels of selenium or vitamin E were particularly prone to herpes virus outbreaks.
Fight inflammation associated with lupus. Selenium’s antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions may be enhanced when combined with vitamin E. For people with lupus, an inflammatory autoimmune disease, this nutrient duo may foster healing of the skin and help protect the heart, blood vessels, skin, joints, and other parts of the body prone to inflammation. Along the same lines, the selenium/vitamin E combination may benefit people with other types of inflammatory disorders too, such as psoriasis, eczema, and rheumatoid arthritis.
Note: Selenium has also been found to be useful for a number of other disorders. For information on these additional ailments, see our Dosage Recommendations Chart for Selenium.
Recommended Intake
The RDA for selenium is 55 mcg for women and 70 mcg for men. Most adults readily obtain this amount through their regular diet, and it’s rare that people living in an industrialized country become deficient in this important trace mineral.
If You Get Too Little
Symptoms of selenium deficiency include muscle weakness and fatigue. Poor selenium intake over time may even increase the risk for cancer, immune-system problems, heart disease, and various inflammatory conditions (especially skin-related ones).
If You Get Too Much
While many foods are rich in selenium–it’s found in grain, meats, seafood, and poultry–you’re unlikely to ingest too much of this trace mineral from your diet.
Taking selenium in concentrated supplement form is a little different, however. Toxic reactions are a risk if you get an overdose. In one case, people who mistakenly took nearly 500 times the RDA for selenium–from bottles of 30 mg selenium pills that were erroneously labeled as 200 mcg pills–suffered hair loss, nausea, vomiting, and fingernail changes. Other signs of potential toxicity include depression, anxiety, and a garlicky odor emanating from the breath and perspiration.
General Dosage Information
For preventing the effects of aging and protecting against cancer: Take 400 mcg a day.
For guarding against cataracts and macular degeneration: Take 200 to 400 mcg a day.
For cold sores and shingles: During flare-ups, take 600 mcg a day. Don’t take more than this amount, and do not continue for more than a few days.
Be sure to check out our Dosage Recommendations Chart for Selenium, which lists therapeutic dosages for specific ailments at a glance.
Guidelines for Use
Selenium may be most effective when taken in combination with at least 400 IU vitamin E daily.
For general antioxidant benefits, consider a high-potency antioxidant blend containing selenium along with vitamins C and E, beta-carotene, grape seed and green tea extracts, alpha-lipoic acid, coenzyme Q10, and N-acetylcysteine (NAC).
General Interaction
There are no known drug or nutrient interactions associated with selenium.
Cautions
Because of the risk of toxic levels building up in your system, avoid taking high doses–900 mcg or more at one time, or 600 mcg daily for an extended period of time. Be sure to also take into account the amount of selenium you’re getting from foods.
Ailments-Dosage
Acne 400 mcg a day
Aging 400 mcg a day
Cancer 200 mcg a day; may be covered by your daily multivitamin and antioxidant complex
Cancer Prevention 200 mcg a day; may be covered by daily multivitamin and antioxidant complex
Cataracts 200 mcg a day
Cold Sores 600 mcg a day only during flare-ups
Hair Problems 200 mcg a day; may be partially covered by antioxidant complex
Lupus 200 mcg a day
Macular Degeneration 200 mcg a day
‹ Saw Palmetto
Shark Liver Oil ›
Tagged with: acne, aging, cancer, cancer prevention, cataracts, cold sores, hair problems, lupus, macular degeneration
Our Services
At WholeHealth Chicago our patients have access to providers who use an integrative and functional medicine model. Functional medicine is a real paradigm shift in the practice of health care. Instead of the traditional disease-centered focus of conventional medicine, functional medicine practitioners apply a patient-centered approach that addresses the whole person–not simply isolated symptoms.
Internal Medicine
Chiropractic Medicine
Clinical Psychology
Advanced Practice Nurse
Naturopathic Medicine
Acupuncture
Functional Medicine
Nutritional Counseling
Occupational Therapy
Low Dose Immunotherapy (LDI)
Physical Therapy
Energy Psychology
Integrative Psychiatry
Therapeutic Deep-Tissue Massage
Healing Touch
Homeopathy
Bioidentical Hormone Replacement
Anti-Aging Therapies
Laboratory Services
Natural Apothecary
Bioimpedance
Yoga Therapy
Shamanic Healing
Join our Newsletter
Get health recommendations, delicious and time-saving recipes, medical news, supplement reviews, birthday discounts, and more!
BIRTHDAY
12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 JanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec
Subscribe
Our Practitioners
We have assembled an outstanding group of practitioners here at WholeHealth Chicago, men and women all seasoned practitioners in their areas of expertise. By working with each other for years, they’re dedicated to our model of integrative health care.
Janet Chandler, PhD, CGP Clinical Psychology
Jennifer Davis, LPC Licensed Professional Counselor
David Edelberg, MD Internal Medicine
Marla Feingold, MS, CCN, CNS, LDN Clinical Nutrition/Exercise Physiology
Alaina Gemelas, DC Chiropractic Medicine; Functional Medicine
Suzi Katlin, LAc Acupuncture, Chinese Herbal Medicine
Cindy Kudelka, LAc, MSTOM Acupuncture
Sujatha Mannal, B.H.M.S Homeopathy
Cliff Maurer, DC Chiropractic Medicine
Katie Huff Oberlin, HTCP Healing Touch Certified Practitioner, Shamanic Healer
Wendy A. Ploegstra, APN, FNP Nurse Practitioner
Christine Savas, LPC Licensed Professional Counselor
Caley Scott, ND Naturopathic Medicine
Neeti Sharma, MD Internal Medicine
Mari Stecker, BA, LAc, Acupuncture
Olivia Wagner, MS,RDN, LDN, IFNCP Clinical Nutrition
Elizabeth Yamat Case Manager / IV Therapies
Renee Zambo, 500HR RYT Yoga Therapist
Quick Connect
Get One Click Access to our
Our Practitioners
Our Services
New Patient Information Forms
Insurance Information
Informational Videos
Parking Information
The Knowledge Base
Patient education is an integral part of our practice. Here you will find a comprehensive collection of staff articles, descriptions of therapies and nutritional supplements, information addressing your health concerns, and the latest research on nutritional supplements and alternative therapies.
Read More
Join our Newsletter
Get health recommendations, recipes, medical news, supplement reviews, birthday discounts, and more!
Upcoming Workshops
**Pain Relief with Therapy Balls
Tuesday, May 21, 2019, 6 – 7:30 PM
With Yoga and Movement Therapist Renee Zambo, RYT
Course Fee: $65.00(includes WHC Myofascial Release Kit, $40 value)
Does that same spot in your neck, shoulders, back or hips seem to bother you every day? Do you have joint aches and pains in the hands and feet? Would you like to learn ways to alleviate that pain and tension?
Join us for this workshop if you experience:
• Chronic Pain • Arthritis • Back, Neck, Shoulder or Hip Pain • Muscular Tension • Injuries • Plantar Fasciitis • Scar Tissue • Tension Headaches • And More!
Space is limited and registration is required.
Please register online.
Call the Center for additional information at (773) 296-6700
More>>
Recent Health Tips
I Feel So Inflamed!
And among other symptoms, indeed she was. Julia, a bright 40-something, had written “fatigue,” “pain,” “bad digestion,” and “brain fog” on her WholeHealth Chicago intake paperwork. She’d been ill for years and brought with her two binders full of medical info on herself. The thicker of these contained accumulated medical records, lab tests, imaging studies, and physician summaries. At first glance, it appeared the various Read More
“I’m Really Confused About Sun Exposure”
Julie was heading for an all-inclusive week in Cancun to loll on a vast expanse of beach, soaking up rays and having someone named Juan bring her endless pina coladas (she planned to get her money’s worth). Sounded pretty nice to me. After months of Chicago overcast/gray, it seemed like a perfect way to put seasonal affective disorder to bed for the winter. Julie was Read More
Here’s What You Should Know About Lyme Disease
In H.G. Wells’s novel (and Steven Spielberg’s movie) War of the Worlds, aliens invade Earth, fully intending to destroy it. Despite our best efforts to defend ourselves, we’re clearly losing until suddenly all the aliens start dying off. Scientists later discover the aliens had no immunity to Earth’s bacteria. The evil aliens were out of their territory and paid the price with their lives. With the Read More
April Sale: 20% off Four Elements Organic Herbals Tea Blends
Celebrate the arrival of spring with 20% off Four Elements Organic Herbals tea blends. Based in central Wisconsin, Four Elements has been dedicated to organic growing for nearly three decades. These herbal tea blends are made with their hand-harvested organic herbs and packaged in oxygen-bleached paper. Purchase now More Info
Location
WholeHealth Chicago
2265 N Clybourn Ave, Chicago, IL 60614
773-296-6700
Click here for a street map for parking.
On Twitter
On Facebook
On Instagram
On Yelp
On foursquare
About Us
Resources
Seminars
Apothecary
Contact
Privacy Policy
Administration
Thyroid Doctor Chicago IL | Internal Medicine Doctor Chicago IL | Natural Medicine Doctor Chicago IL | Insomnia Doctor Chicago IL | Nutritional Counseling Chicago IL | Occupational Therapist Chicago IL | Acupuncturist Chicago IL | Naturopathic Medicine Doctor Chicago IL | Hormone Doctor Chicago IL | Migraine Doctor Chicago IL | Alternative Medicine Doctor Chicago IL | Fibromyalgia Doctor Chicago IL | Homeopathic Doctor Chicago IL | Clinical Psychologist Chicago IL | Advanced Practice Nurse Chicago IL | Fibromyalgia Doctor Chicago IL
© 1993-2019 WholeHealth Chicago .
Disclaimer: The content of the WholeHealth Chicago website is intended for information and education only. You should always consult with your physician before starting any new health-related activity. This website cannot substitute for professional medical advice.
Powered by: Matador Solutions
↑