Eating Sesame Seeds Superior To Tylenol for Knee Arthritis
Toggle navigation
Research Tools
Research Dashboard
Search Abstracts
Search Articles
Search All Content (Google)
Topic Research Discovery
Diseases
Therapeutic Substances
Therapeutic Actions
Pharmacological Actions
Problem Substances
Problematic Actions
Adverse Pharmacological Actions
Trending Topics
Smart Search - Evidence Generator
Smart Search: Diseases
Smart Search: Therapeutic Substances
Smart Search: Pharmacological Actions
Articles
Most Recent
Most Popular
Find Articles
My Membership
Memberships
Compare Membership Plans
Join our Free Newsletter
Log in or Join us
Sayer Ji, Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Sayer Ji
Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Subscribe to our informative Newsletter & get two FREE E-Books
Our newsletter serves 500,000 with essential news, research & healthy tips, daily.
Depression: 21st Century Solutions + The Dark Side of Wheat
Eating Sesame Seeds Superior To Tylenol for Knee Arthritis
Posted on:
Sunday, November 10th 2013 at 12:15 pm
Written By:
Sayer Ji, Founder
Views 136948
This article is copyrighted by GreenMedInfo LLC, 2013
Visit our Re-post guidelines
A remarkable new study published in the International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases confirms that food is not only medicine, but sometimes superior to it. Medical researchers working out of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran, sought to investigate the effects of sesame seed supplementation on clinical signs and symptoms in patients with knee osteoarthritis.[i]
Knee osteoarthritis is a form of degenerative joint disease or degenerative arthritis localized in the knee, and causes a variety of symptoms including pain, swelling, abnormal bone growth (which can result in bone spurs), disfigured cartilage and loss of motion, and it affects as many as 12.1% of adults aged 60+, according to the CDC.[ii] Standard therapy involves the use of NSAID drugs, many of which have been linked both to internal bleeding and significantly increased risk of cardiac mortality, which is why the researchers sought out to look for "a complementary treatment to reduce complications and costs."
The study took fifty patients with osteoarthritis of the knee, and divided them into two 25-patient groups: a sesame group, receiving 40 grams/day of powdered sesame seeds, and a standard drug therapy group, receiving two 500 mg doses of Tylenol twice a day along with 500 mg of glucosamine once daily. After two months of treatment, 22 patients in the sesame intervention group and 23 patients in the control group completed the study.
Table 1
Considering that treatment was comprised of little over an ounce and one half of sesame seeds, the results were truly remarkable. As presented in Table 1 above, there was a significant difference in pain intensity between the two groups after treatment, with the sesame group seeing the largest drop from 9.5 before treatment to 3.5 after treatment, and the control group seeing a more modest drop from 9 before treatment to 7 after treatment. Additional measurements were taken using both the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) Questionnaire and the Timed Up and Go (TUG) Test. Both tests revealed a similar degree of positive change in both treatment and control groups, when compared to baseline. [See table 2 and table 3 below].
Table 2 [KOOS]
Table 3 [TUG]
Taken together, sesame was the clear winner. Not only was this food therapy superior in reducing the intensity of pain, but it was at least equal in effectiveness to Tylenol and glucosamine in both the KOOS and TUG tests. This, of course, was accomplished without the notorious side effects associated with Tylenol; to the contrary, sesame seed has a wide range of side benefits, which we covered recently in our article on sesame's health benefits.
So, how much is 40 grams of sesame seed? A tablespoon of sesame seeds is approximately 9 grams. So, approximately 4 tablespoons will get you to what the study found to be a 'clinical dose.' Also, the researchers powdered the sesame seeds in order to enhance digestion. Remember, it is best to do this fresh with a mortar and pestle (first choice) or coffee grinder, also making sure that your seeds are raw, certified organic, and vetted to have not undergone gamma irradiation.
To truly appreciate the significance of this study, take a look at the growing body of toxicological research indicating that the unintended, adverse health effects of Tylenol (acetaminophen) far outweigh its purported benefits. We recently featured articles on the fact that even only occasional use of Tylenol may raise a child's asthma risk 540%, and that it may be time for the FDA to remove it from the market.
For additional research on natural and/or integrative interventions for knee osteoarthritis visit our research page on the topic: knee osteoarthritis.
[i] Bina Eftekhar Sadat, Mahdieh Khadem Haghighian, Beitollah Alipoor, Aida Malek Mahdavi, Mohammad Asghari Jafarabadi, Abdolvahab Moghaddam. Effects of sesame seed supplementation on clinical signs and symptoms in patients with knee osteoarthritis.
[ii] CDC.gov, Osteoarthritis statistics
Sayer Ji is founder of Greenmedinfo.com, a reviewer at the International Journal of Human Nutrition and Functional Medicine, Co-founder and CEO of Systome Biomed, Vice Chairman of the Board of the National Health Federation, Steering Committee Member of the Global Non-GMO Foundation.
Disclaimer: This article is not intended to provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of GreenMedInfo or its staff.
Recommended Related Articles
Lime Juice and 8 Other Natural Ways To Quit Smoking
444,297 views
7 Ways To Prevent and Even Reverse Heart Disease With...
213,967 views
Reverse Insulin Resistance With These 8 Foods
399,520 views
Turmeric's 'Smart Kill' Properties Put Chemo & Radiation To...
278,096 views
Why An Alkaline Approach Can Successfully Treat Cancer
322,586 views
Print Options
Some features are currently member only features. If you are already a member, please login. Otherwise, click here to become a member.
Printer-friendly version
Send to friend
PDF version
Internal Site Commenting is limited to members.
Disqus commenting is available to everyone.
To comment:
Log in if you have a Membership or Become a Member
Post a Comment
Disqus
View the discussion thread.
Key Research Topics
Disease
Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis: Knee
Substance
Sesame Seeds
Sesame Seed Oil
Sesame oil: topical
Toxic Ingredients
Tylenol
Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs)
Sayer Ji, Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Sayer Ji
Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Subscribe to our informative Newsletter & get two FREE E-Books
Our newsletter serves 500,000 with essential news, research & healthy tips, daily.
Depression: 21st Century Solutions + The Dark Side of Wheat
Links
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Return Policy
Corrections
FAQ
Write For Us
Advertise
Research
Substances
Ailments
Problem Substances
Therapeutic Actions
Problematic Actions
Pharmacological Actions
Adverse Pharmacological Actions
Keywords
Articles
Most Popular
Most Recent
Store
eBooks
eCourses
Downloadable Documents
Donate
Join Us
Become a Member
Join our Free Newsletter
Log In
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
RSS Feed
This website is for information purposes only. By providing the information contained herein we are not diagnosing, treating, curing, mitigating, or preventing any type of disease or medical condition. Before beginning any type of natural, integrative or conventional treatment regimen, it is advisable to seek the advice of a licensed healthcare professional.
© Copyright 2008-2019 GreenMedInfo.com, Journal Articles copyright of original owners, MeSH copyright NLM.