Selenium Health Benefits - Nutritional Medicine
Close
About Dr Sarah Brewer
CuraLife Advisory Board
Contact Page
Image Credits
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy For DrSarahBrewer.com
Cookie policy
Terms & Conditions
Guest Articles
5 Natural Remedies To Relieve An Anxious Mind
5 Ways To Mentally And Physically Improve Your Wellbeing
6 Low-Carb Diet Mistakes To Watch Out For
How to Safely Detox Your Body
Is Krill Oil As Good As Fish Oil?
Natural Ways Of Preventing Common Diseases
The Health Benefits Of Altruism
The Health Benefits Of Regular Exercise
Top Reasons To Eat Healthy And Exercise
Top Ways Nutrition Aids Weight Training
Top Ways To Improve Your Wellbeing
Travel Checklist: Everything Seniors Must Do Before They Jet Off
Living Healthier For Less – Are Super Foods Really That Super?
How A Change In Diet Can Reduce Musculoskeletal Pain
Can You Get Enough Protein If You Follow A Vegan Diet?
5 Ways You Can Change Your Life for the Better
11 Tips For Channelling Your Inner Nigella Lawson On A Date
Finding A Gym With Extra Health Boosting Benefits
Top Tips For Caring For Your Aging Parent
Supplements For An Extra Boost In The Day
What Should I Know About Cannabis?
Your Go-To Guide: Training For Your First Trail Run
Ask Me A Question
Nutritional Medicine
Food, Herbs, Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements By Dr Sarah Brewer
Food, Herbs, Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements By Dr Sarah Brewer
Menu
Home
Ask Me A Question
Nutrition 101
Drug Supplement Interactions
Do You Get All The Nutrients You Need From Your Food?
Antioxidants In Food
Diet And Gluten
Glycemic Index and Glycemic Load
High Fibre Foods
Phytonutrients In Food
The Truth About Saturated Fats
Butter, Margarine or Oil?
Which Oils Are Best For Cooking?
Omega 3, Omega 6, Omega-7, Omega 9 & More
Polyphenols And Bioflavonoids In Food
Protein
Why 5-A-Day And Not 7-A-Day Or More?
Should you go ‘Organic’?
Does Red Meat Cause Cancer?
Low Fat Versus Low Carb Diets
Is Pasta Fattening Or Not?
What Are Oligosaccharides?
Sugar And The Best Alternatives
What is bioavailability?
Vitamins And Minerals
Minerals in Food
Vitamins in Food
Why You May Need More Vitamin D
Supplement Basics
Upper Safe Levels For Vitamins & Minerals
Vitamin & Mineral RDAs, NRVs and DVs
Dietitians, Nutritionists & Nutritional Therapists
Ask Me A Question About Nutrition
Diets For Health Problems
Diets For Health
DASH Diet & Blood Pressure
Diet And Acne
Diet And Arthritis
Diet And AMD
Diet And Candida
Diet And Constipation
Diet And Gallstones
Diet And Gluten
Diet And Gout
Diet And Heartburn Or Indigestion
Diet And Heart Disease
Diet And Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Diet And Low Sex Drive
Diet And Menopause
Diet And Metabolic Syndrome
Diet And Multiple Sclerosis
Diet And Osteoporosis
Diet And PCOS
Diet And Prostate Health
Diet And Restless Legs
Detox Diet Plan
Diet & Longevity
Diet And Thinning Hair
Vegetarian Diets And Cancer
Ask Me A Question About Diets
Best Supplements For Health
Best CBD Oil Supplements
Best Herbal Supplements For Type 2 Diabetes
Best Supplements For Women Over 50
Best Herbal Viagra Alternatives
Best Herbs For Anxiety
Best Herbs For Pain Relief
Best Herbs For Insomnia
Best Supplements For High Blood Pressure
Best Cholesterol Lowering Supplements
Best Supplements For Fibromyalgia
Best Supplements For Knee Pain
Best Supplements For PMS
Best Supplements For Memory
What Is A Nootropic?
Best Supplements For Thinning Hair
Rhodiola Improves Low Libido
Ask Me A Question About Supplements
Health Foods
Acai Berries
Almonds
Artichoke
An Apple A Day …
Apple Cider Vinegar
Asparagus
Avocado
Balsamic Vinegar
Bilberries
Black Garlic
Baobab Powder
Brazil Nuts
Cacao Benefits
Capers and Caper Berries
Chamomile Tea
Chia Seeds
Chickpeas
Cocoa
Coconut Water
Coffee
Flax Seeds
Goji Berries
Garlic
Kitchen Herbs
Maca Powder
Manuka Honey
Olive Oil
Prunes
Pumpkin Seeds
Shiitake Mushrooms
Spinach
Spirulina
Sweet Potatoes
Tea
Spices
Black Pepper
Cayenne Pepper
Cinnamon
Fenugreek
Turmeric & Curcumin
Herbal Medicines
Ask Me A Question About Herbal Medicines
Kitchen Herbs
Medical Herbs
Herbal Medicines
CuraLin And Other Herbal Medicines For Type 2 Diabetes
Adaptogenic Herbs
Agnus Castus
Aloe Vera
Ashwagandha
Best Herbal Viagra Alternatives
Black Cohosh
Boswellia
Cannabidiol CBD Oil
Devil’s Claw
Echinacea Health Benefits
Garcinia Cambogia
Garlic
Ginkgo Biloba
Guarana
Horny Goat Weed
Milk Thistle
Muira Puama
Panax Ginseng
Passion Flower
Pelargonium
Raspberry Leaf Tea
Red Vine Leaf
Rhodiola Rosea
Saw Palmetto
Siberian Ginseng
Spirulina
St John’s Wort
Turmeric
Valerian Root
Supplements
Ask Me A Question About Supplements
Supplement Basics
5 hydroxytryptophan or 5 HTP
Alpha-Lipoic Acid
L-Arginine
Astaxanthin
Baobab Powder
Boswellia
Bromelain
B Vitamins Complex
Cannabidiol CBD Oil
Carotenoids
Cod Liver Oil
Coenzyme Q10
DHEA And Pregnenolone
Evening Primrose Oil
Globe Artichoke
Glucosamine
Green Lipped Mussel
Krill Oil
Krill Oil Versus Fish Oil
Lavender Oil
Maca Powder
Nootropic Supplements
Oligosaccharides
Omega-3
Omega 3, Omega 6, Omega-7, Omega 9
Phosphatidylcholine
Plant Sterols
Probiotics
Protein Supplements
Pycnogenol
Quercetin
Resveratrol
Royal Jelly
Sea Buckthorn Oil
Soy Isoflavones
Some People DO Need Vitamin Supplements
Vitamin A-Z
Vitamins in Food
Vitamin A
Vitamin B1
Vitamin B2
Vitamin B3
Vitamin B5
Vitamin B6
Vitamin B12
Biotin
Folate & Folic Acid
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Vitamin K
Some People DO Need Vitamin Supplements
Why You May Need More Vitamin D
RDAs, NRVs and DVs For Vitamins
Upper Safe Levels For Vitamins
Ask Me A Question About Vitamins
Mineral A-Z
Minerals in Food
Are You Getting Enough Magnesium?
Calcium
Chromium
Iron
Magnesium
Selenium
Zinc
RDAs, NRVs and DVs For Minerals
Upper Safe Levels For Minerals
Ask Me A Question About Minerals
Weight loss
3 Of The Best
Energy Supplements
Ways To Take Vitamin D
Ways To Top Up Magnesium
My Recommended Products Amazon.com
My Recommended Products Amazon UK
Free Book
Home » Supplements And Health » Selenium Benefits
Selenium Benefits
Selenium is an essential trace element which is so important for human health that its incorporation into proteins – as selenocysteine, the 21st amino acid – is under direct genetic control.
Contents
Selenium health benefits
Dietary sources of selenium
Selenium and immunity
Selenium and influenza
Selenium and cancer
Selenium and thyroid health
Selenium and brain health
Selenium and fertility
Selenium and rheumatoid arthritis
Selenium deficiency
Symptoms of selenium deficiency
Selenium dose
Selenium safety
Selenium health benefits
Selenium, in the form of selenocysteine, forms an integral part of at least 25 human proteins, including the selenoenzymes – powerful antioxidants which protect tissues from metabolic damage. Selenium enhances the action of a liver enzyme (P450) involved in detoxifying cancer-causing chemicals, is involved in the repair of damaged genes and the interconversion and deactivation of thyroid hormones.
Selenium is needed for normal cell growth and immunity. It protects against a range of degenerative diseases such as hardening and furring up of the arteries, emphysema, liver cirrhosis, cataracts, arthritis, stroke and heart attack.
Within the EU, the authorised nutrition and health claims for selenium include:
Selenium contributes to normal sperm formation
Selenium contributes to the maintenance of normal hair
Selenium contributes to the maintenance of normal nails
Selenium contributes to the normal function of the immune system
Selenium contributes to the normal thyroid function
Selenium contributes to the protection of cells from oxidative stress.
Dietary sources of selenium
The best food source of selenium is Brazil nuts. Selenium is also found in fish, poultry, meats (especially game), wholegrains such as wheat, mushrooms, onions, garlic, broccoli and cabbage.
Selenium and immunity
Selenium is needed for antibody synthesis and also stimulates the production and activity of T lymphocytes and natural killer cells which fight viral and bacterial infections. The production of antibodies, increases up to thirty fold if supplements of selenium and vitamin E are taken together.
People taking 100mcg/day selenium supplements have a significantly better immune response when immunised with live polio virus vaccine, and cleared the virus from their system more quickly, than those taking placebo.
Lack of selenium reduces the activity of T-lymphocytes and decreases antibody production. This reduced immunity makes it more likely that a viral infection will survive long enough within the body for mutation to a more virulent genotype to occur. Lack of selenium also affects the way respiratory epithelial cells respond to influenza virus exposure. As a result, lack of selenium increases the risk of more severe influenza infections.
Selenium and influenza
Lack of selenium is now recognised as a driving force for viral mutations, which may explain why so many new, pathogenic influenza viruses emerge from Asia, where selenium intakes are among the lowest in the world. Symptoms of influenza are also more severe in selenium deficient hosts and lung pathology persists for longer.
Influenza viruses recovered from selenium-deficient hosts consistently show changes in the genes coding for viral matrix proteins. In one study, influenza viruses isolated from three different hosts showed identical mutations in 29 different nucleotide positions, seven of which would result in the insertion of a different amino acid from the original. The changed amino acid sequences in the viral proteins are believed to increase the virulence of the influenza virus by allowing more rapid uncoating of viral RNA from its associated proteins so it can start replicating more rapidly.
Selenium and cancer
Selenium enzymes have powerful antioxidant actions that help to protect against cancer and trigger the programmed cell death (apoptosis) of abnormal cells. In parts of the world where soil selenium levels are low, the incidence of cancer increases by two to six fold. Those with the lowest selenium intakes have the highest risk of developing leukaemia or cancers of the colon, rectum, breast, ovary, pancreas, prostate gland, bladder, skin and lungs. These risks are even higher if intakes of vitamin E and vitamin A are also low. Selenium has been shown to prevent the growth of cancer cells in the laboratory, and some evidence suggests it is involved in triggering programmed cell death (apoptosis) of abnormal cells.
An early clinical trial involving over 1300 people with a previous history of cancer of the skin found that those taking 200mcg selenium supplements per day had a 52% lower risk of cancer death compared with those taking placebo. While there were no effects on skin cancer, the incidence of prostate cancer fell by 63%, colorectal cancer by 58%, lung cancer by 46%. The blinded phase of this trial was therefore stopped early as it was considered unethical to withhold selenium from the placebo group.
A recent Cochrane analysis of 63 studies involving over a million people confirmed that people with the highest selenium intake had a 31% lower incidence of cancer and a 40% reduced risk of cancer mortality. The most pronounced decrease was for cancers of the stomach, bladder and prostate gland.
However, this is not necessarily a causal link, and some studies have not found any association between selenium intakes and cancer. There is not yet any convincing evidence that selenium supplements can prevent cancer in humans.
Selenium and thyroid health
The thyroid gland has the highest concentration of selenium in the body, where it protects cells against the free radicals generated by thyroid metabolism. If selenium is in short supply, thyroid cells become damaged and are replaced by scar tissue (fibrosis). Enzymes containing selenium (thyroxine deiodinases) also regulate the production of active tri-iodothyronine hormone. Low selenium levels increase the risk of thyroid cancer and of developing an enlarged multinodular thyroid goiter and other thyroid diseases. When selenium and iodine intakes are both low, there is a high risk of a severely underactive thyroid (myxoedema).
Selenium supplementation can enhance the effect of antithyroid drugs in patients with recurrent Graves’ disease.
Selenium and brain health
Selenium plays a vital antioxidant role within the brain, protecting tissues from oxidative damage. Research involving over 1,110 males found that those with the lowest selenium levels were almost four times more likely to die from a stroke than those with the highest levels. Selenium may also protect against dementia and have a beneficial role in Alzheimer’s treatment.
Selenium and fertility
Selenium is important for both male and female fertility. Low levels of selenium have been linked with miscarriage and pre-eclampsia during pregnancy. Taking selenium supplements can increase sperm motility and improve the chance of conception for some men with reduced sperm quality.
Selenium and rheumatoid arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease that has been associated with low levels of selenium. An early study found that the highest selenium levels appear to have a greater than 80% lower risk of developing RA than those with low levels. Data from 14 studies involving 716 people found that, overall, those with rheumatoid arthritis had blood selenium levels that were a third lower than those without rheumatoid arthritis, although this was skewed by an unusually large effect in Asia, where people with rheumatoid arthritis had selenium levels that were more than threefold lower than those without RA.
It’s possible that these findings show effect rather than cause, however, as the increased inflammation present in rheumatoid arthritis may increase selenium requirements. Taking selenium supplements may reduce disease activity, but has not been found to affect the number of painful and swollen joints.
Selenium deficiency
The mineral content of food depends on the soils in which they are grown or reared. During the last ice age, selenium was leached from the soil in many parts of Europe, including the UK. When the UK started sourcing wheat from Europe rather than America and Canada, average selenium intakes fell dramatically from 60mcg to 34mcg per day between 1978 and 1994. As a result, UK blood selenium concentrations also fell by around 50% between 1974 and 1991 as intakes were only half our estimated requirements.
Symptoms of selenium deficiency
Selenium deficiency is associated with symptoms and signs such as age spots, pale finger nail beds, increased susceptibility to infection, premature wrinkling of skin, poor growth, subfertility, arthritis, high blood pressure, coronary heart disease, cataracts, pancreatitis, muscle weakness, hypothyroidism and an increased risk of some cancers.
Selenium is important for healthy muscle fibres, including those found in the heart. In parts of China, selenium intakes are low enough to cause a form of heart failure (Keshan Disease) and an unpleasant, deforming type of arthritis known as Kashin-Beck disease. These risks seem to be even higher if intakes of the antioxidant vitamins A, C and E are also low.
Selenium dose
The EU RDA for selenium is 55mcg, while the US DV is 70mcg per day.
The EU tolerable upper intake level is 300mcg per day from all sources, including food and supplements.
Supplements typically supply 50mcg to 200mcg selenium daily.
Supplements that supply selenium already incorporated into the amino acid, selenocysteine (from selenium-enriched yeasts) or selenomethionine have greater bioavailability than those containing selenium salts such as selenium selenite.
Selenium-enriched yeast supplements are notoriously ‘smelly’, but look out for low-odour products which, thanks to new coating technology, are more pleasant to take.
Selenium safety
Intakes above 800mcg selenium per day cause toxicity, leading to a garlic odour on the breath (from dimethyl selenide), fragile or black fingernails, a metallic taste in the mouth, dizziness, nausea and hair loss.
Image credit: hans/pixabay; gadini/pixabay
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of new posts by email.
4 thoughts on “Selenium Benefits”
Reply ↓
Kay September 8, 2017 at 8:00 pm
Thank you for your response, Dr. Brewer. Quick follow up question, I heard that since the yeast is completely destroyed it does not cause issues for people with yeast sensitivities, but you recommend amino-acid bound forms rather. Is there a clearcut answer to that?
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer September 9, 2017 at 8:35 am
If you are not intolerant to yeast, then yeast-bound forms are fine. If you are intolerant to yeast (which is unusual), then an amino-acid bound form such as selenomethionine has better bioavailability than selenium salts such as selenium selenite. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Kay August 30, 2017 at 9:29 pm
I have been hearing a lot about Selenomethionine from many manufacturers. I currently use SelenoPrecise which is a high-selenium yeast with a broad spectrum of selenoproteins. I heard from the manufacturer and a naturopathic doctor that the SelenoPrecise is the closest to the selenium that we get from food because the product has many different selenoproteins unlike most brands. What are your thoughts on SelenoPrecise vs. Selenomethionine?
Thanks. Kay
Reply ↓
DrSarahBrewer August 31, 2017 at 3:11 pm
Most of the research relating to health benefits of selenium have used yeast bound forms (selenium yeast). If you are intolerant to yeast, then an amino-acid bound form that is not yeast derived, such as selenomethionine is the next best option and preferable to non-organic selenium salts. Hope that helps, Sarah B
.
.
My New Guides:
Search Nutritional Medicine
Search for:
.
.
Shop At Boots
.
.
.
Join Me On FaceBook
Join Me On FaceBook
.
.
About Dr Sarah Brewer
Registered Medical Doctor
Registered Nutritionist
Registered Nutritional Therapist
Award-winning author of over 60 books
Medical Advisor To:
Prima Magazine
Patient Connect
Healthspan
AHPMA
Curalife
Contacts
Contact Page
Site Map
Sitemap
· © 2019 Nutritional Medicine ·
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you are happy to accept cookies, please click on OK. If you wish to refuse cookies, please click NO. For more information, read our Privacy Policy. Thank you.OKNoRead more