The 24-Hour Mommy: Dolan Goodie Bag Raffle Contest Winners!
Pages
Home
About Me
Contact
Free Grade School Worksheets
Hire Me To Write For You
On 24/7 mommy duty.
contests
Dolan Goodie Bag Raffle Contest Winners!
7:43 AM
Congratulations to MENCHIE GORDO who posted the link of my post and tagged The 24 Hour Mommy in her Facebook wall on September 16 at 9:04am! She wins the Dolan goodie bag with the following contents:
1 Digital thermometer
1 Dolan water tumbler
1 Dolan cap
1 Dolan ballpen
5 Dolan samplers
and I'm also throwing in 1 Myra VitaMoisture Lip Balm!
Another Myra VitaMoisture Lip Balm goes to RLYN SIXEIGHT for posting the best tip among the lot! Rlyn shared,
"When my child has fever I burn the midnight oil and arm myself with a complete side table to make him/her feel better. My side table is loaded with a water bottle, a thermometer, a notepad, Dolan, a fresh pair of pyjamas and a tepid towel sponge bath. I rarely feel the need to sleep as I'd rather be kept up at my tot's beck and call."
She posted the link of my post and tagged The 24 Hour Mommy in her Facebook wall on September 22 at 5:04pm! I found Ryln's tip as the best among all the ones that were given because she got everything covered. Also, it should be noted that she specifically wrote "tepid towel sponge bath" for a child with fever. Tepid water is somewhere in between lukewarm and room temperature and I believe that this is the most comfortable temperature that a feverish child can handle. It is comforting and relaxing at the same time.
I prepared a list of all the contestants with their raffle points and their comments for your reference. You can view the list here: http://www.scribd.com/doc/38504471/Dolan-Raffle-Tabulation
Again, special thanks goes to Unilab for starting The Discerning Mommy program and for sharing these wonderful treats. You can follow the Unilab Facebook page or follow them over Twitter to be updated on their latest products and promos.
Menchie and Rlyn, please reply to my private Facebook message with your full names and shipping addresses so I can ship your prizes within the week.
Thanks to everyone for joining! I'm launching another raffle as promised and I'll be giving out a Next9 Nursing Cover for breastfeeding moms. Hope you can join this one!
Did you like my post? CLICK THIS to have my posts delivered straight to your email inbox.
Mauie Flores
I'm Mauie Flores, 24/7 mommy to Ralph and wife to Alex. We are from Rizal, Philippines. A former pre-school teacher, I am now a freelance online writer and editor. Thank you for visiting my site!.
You Might Also Like
0 comments
Thank you for taking your time to read my post. This is a DO FOLLOW blog. Comments, except SPAM, are greatly appreciated.
Newer
Stories
Older
Stories
Search This Blog
Mommy Mauie
I'm Mauie Flores, 24/7 mommy to Ralph and wife to Alex. We are from Rizal, Philippines. A former pre-school teacher, I am now a digital marketing professional. Thank you for visiting my site!
Shop for your baby
at Zuri Baby Couture
Watch My Latest Video
on YouTube
Like The 24-Hour Mommy
on Facebook
Mauie, The 24-Hour Mommy
Follow @the24hourmommy
on Instagram!
Follow @the24hourmommy
on Twitter
Tweets by @the24hourmommy
Popular Posts
Our Clark Freeport Zone Duty Free Shopping Experience
I've been to Clark a couple of times but this last long weekend was the first time I tried shopping there. I was told that there are mo...
Recognition Day Speech
This afternoon, my boy will be receiving his awards as Fifth Grade Gold Medalist. I'm so happy and overwhelmed because it's a valid...
Visit My Other Blogs
Mole on My Sole
Take an Extreme Adventure or Just Chill at Laresio Lakeside Resort and Spa - The last weekend of February had us driving to UPLB to fetch Ralph who went on an overnight debate competition. Since February 25 was declared as an offici...
Our Food Trip
3 Ways To Add Flavor To Your Food Without Adding Calories - Most people want to eat healthy, but they find that such food tastes bland. If this is the case, it is difficult to keep up a diet rich in healthy foods ...
Follow me on Facebook ,	Twitter , and	Instagram !
Blogger Templates Created By : ThemeXpose . All Rights Reserved.
Back to top