Breaking the stigma of mental health | Sarah Says | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Health Info
Depression
Features
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Breaking the stigma of mental health
Authored by Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE Published on: 12:17 PM 31-Oct-17
Reviewed by Dr Hayley Willacy Reading time: 4 min read
I've always been a fan of the Royal family, but the youngsters are really stepping up a notch. They're supporting the Heads Together campaign, aiming to raise awareness of, and break the stigma around, mental health issues among young people. It's a brave move - and a much needed one.
It's more common than you think
Depression is amazingly common, affecting 60% of us at some point. For 1 in 10 men and 1 in 5 women, the 'black dog' has a major impact on life. It's much more than just feeling a bit down because your team has lost a football match or your favourite TV show has been cancelled. It's an overwhelming sadness, or constant exhaustion, or a complete inability to enjoy life - or sometimes all three.
Our picks for Breaking the stigma of mental health
View all
Can exercise really help with depression?
If you're dealing with depression or anxiety, you're probably aware of the recommendation to be ...
5min
Can exercise really help with depression?
5min
Will taking antidepressants really lead to weight gain?
4min
How to look after your mental health this winter
7min
What to do if you feel lonely
7min
How do I know?
To tease out depression, your doctor will ask two screening questions. In the last month, have you been bothered by:
Feeling down, depressed or hopeless?
Not enjoying things you'd normally look forward to?
If the answer is 'yes, at least half the time' to either of these questions, they'll probe further. Have you had problems with sleep, appetite, concentration, feeling unduly guilty? Have you ever thought you'd be better off dead? If you're concerned about a loved one, offer to go with them to see the GP - you can go in with them or just wait outside for moral support.
Quiz
Am I Depressed?
See if you’re experiencing the tell-tale physical and emotional signs of clinical depression.
Take the Test
These questions will give an idea of whether you're depressed and if so, how seriously. The options for treatment will depend on your circumstances, but talking therapy is likely to be high up the list. These days, everyone in the UK can get a free NHS assessment through the IAPT service (Improving Access to Psychological Therapies) - or you can refer yourself to your local service. That assessment will help decide which form of counselling will suit you best. Antidepressant medication tends to be reserved for more severe cases. It can help enormously, but needs to be taken for some months for best effect.
What causes mental health disorders?
Depression is often triggered by a single major life event. But someone can also be tipped over into depression by just too many minor stresses. We all need some stress to motivate us - otherwise, we'd never be bothered to put any effort into anything. But if stress increases too much, it can push us over the brink. Instead of making us want to try that bit harder, every new demand on us seems overwhelming. We can't make decisions, and fear that others will work out we're not managing just adds to the stress. We can't cope even with the 'enjoyable' stress of socialising or concentrating on Bake-Off.
Even more people are affected if we include other mental health problems such as anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder or schizophrenia. 1 in 6 adults have a 'common mental disorder', a figure that has stayed stable among men for the last 20 years but gone up among women. Of people affected, 1 in 3 women now receive help for their mental health problems, up from 1 in 4 just a decade ago.
Looking to the future
Doctors are prescribing more medicines like antidepressants, but there's also more access to talking therapies including counselling. People with mental health disorders are also more likely to be using community services, and to discuss their problems with a GP, than they were a decade ago. More and more people with severe mental health problems are being offered care at home, with specialist services coming to visit them. But inequalities do still exist - people who live alone, are out of work or have physical health issues too are more likely to have mental health problems.
There is much you can do yourself if you're prone to depression. Many people drink alcohol to try to forget their troubles - but alcohol is actually a depressant, and can make your mood worse. There's lots of help available on the NHS if you're concerned about your drinking. Regular exercise helps your body make natural 'feel-good' hormones. Making simple relaxation techniques part of your day can help counter the stresses of modern life that can lead to depression. And techniques like mindfulness - focusing on the here and now - can quickly become a protective part of your daily routine.
With thanks to 'My Weekly' where this article was originally published.
Visit our forums
Head over to Patient's forums to seek support and advice from our friendly community.
Join the discussion
Related Information
How to support someone with depression
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)
Do holidays help or hinder depression?
Agoraphobia
Can exercise really help with depression?
5 minutes reading time 09-Apr-19
Will taking antidepressants really lead to weight gain?
4 minutes reading time 27-Mar-19
How to look after your mental health this winter
7 minutes reading time 29-Jan-19
I struggle with anxiety for a long time now. Lost my entire life cause of it. It wasn't a lot to begin with, but at least I had some little bride sparkles now and then. Now I have none. I'm almost 20...
Emotinium
Join the discussion on the forums
Health Tools
Feeling unwell?
Assess your symptoms online with our free symptom checker.
Start symptom checker
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up