prophylactic – Migraines In Women
Migraines In Women
The Ultimate Blog On Migraines In Women
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About The Author
prophylactic
February 19, 2014 by Mamta Singh
Butterbur Found Effective In Treating Migraines: Studies
The Daisy-family Petasites Prove Themselves Effective In Migraine Treatment (1)
Butterbur, Petasites or Sweet Coltsfoot are residents of moist regions like marshes, ditches and riverbeds and do well in temperate regions in the northern hemisphere. Studies have shown that certain species contain chemicals petasin and isopetasin which occur in high concentrations in the plant’s root and are very effective in treating migraines.
In my post of April 26th, 2012, titled ‘New Guidelines from American Academy of Neurology On Reduction of Migraine Frequency’ I had outlined how the AAN listed out Butterbur as one of the herbal formulae that they found effective in the management of migraines. (2)
The organic compound petasin found in butterbur is a combination of the ester of petasol and angelic acid known to stub inflammatory response in the body. It is also a proven muscle relaxant. Moreover, irritable blood vessels that are known to add to the woes of a migraineur are also soothed by petasin and isopetasin by control of blood pressure and spasmodic capillary action. Several German researches have found that incidences of migraines could be reduced by as much as 50% even in long-term patients. (3)
Here are a list of studies that have expanded on the find:
Evidence-based guideline update: NSAIDs and other complementary treatments for episodic migraine prevention in adults. Report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society; AHRQ (US Dept Of Health & Human Services); http://www.guideline.gov/content.aspx?f=rss&id=36897
The First Placebo-Controlled Trial of a Special Butterbur Root Extract for the Prevention of Migraine: Reanalysis of Efficacy Criteria; European Neurology; Diener HC, Rahlfs VW, Danesch U. Eur Neurol. 2004;51(2):89-97. http://www.petasites.eu/PDF/Eur_Neurol.pdf
An extract of Petasites hybridus is effective in the prophylaxis of migraine. NCBI Resources – PubMed; Grossmann M, Schmidramsl H. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2000 Sep;38(9):430-5. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11020030
Petasites hybridus root (butterbur) is an effective preventive treatment for migraine.NCBI Resources – PubMed; Lipton RB, Gobel H, Einhaupl KM, Wilks K, Mauskop A. Neurology. 2004 Dec 28;63(12):2240-4. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15623680
Butterbur is available as a herbal tea though it is hard to palate because of it’s bitter taste. However, capsules of butterbur may be a better option. Doctors usually recommend 50-75 mg twice daily as effective prophylactic dosage.
It is imperative that you consult a doctor before taking any butterbur preparation.
Once advised, choose a brand that says ‘PA-Free’ indicative of the removal of toxic chemical pyrolizidine alkaloid which is toxic to the liver. (4)
SOURCES:
Image Credit: Butterbur 628x 323; Spring Allergy Relief; Prevention.com; Web February 2014; http://bit.ly/1nMkgOH
New Guidelines from American Academy of Neurology On Reduction of Migraine Frequency; Migrainingjenny.wordpress.com; Web February 2014; https://migrainingjenny.wordpress.com/2012/04/26/new-guidelines-from-american-academy-of-neurology-on-reduction-of-migraine-frequency/
Butterbur: For Migraines, Allergies, And More; Chiroeco.com; Web February 2014; http://www.chiroeco.com/chiropractic/news/14902/856/butterbur-%20for%20migraines-%20allergies-%20and%20more/
Butterbur In The Treatment Of Migraines; WholesomeOne.com; Web February 2014; http://www.wholesomeone.com/article/butterbur-treatment-migraines
Copyrights apply on this blog. Please refer copyright permissions.
Advertisements
Share this:
Tumblr
More
Twitter
LinkedIn
Facebook
Print
Pinterest
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in Health, Migraine Healing, women	| Tagged ache, alkaloid, American Academy of Neurology, angelic acid, anti-inflammatory, attack, blood pressure, butterbur, debilitating, effective, episode, ester, guidelines, headache, irritable blood vessels, isopetasin, liver toxic, migraine, PA, petasin, Petasites, petasol, prophylactic, pyrolizidine alkaloid, reduce frequency, soothe, spasmodic, sweet coltsfoot, therapy, treatment, women
January 11, 2012 by Mamta Singh
Acupuncture: A ‘Yes’ or A ‘No’ For Migraineurs?
This post has been drawn from Medicine News Today for the benefit of migraineurs:
In order to find out the effect of acupuncture compared with sham acupuncture in treating migraines, a team of investigators carried out a randomized controlled human trial. 480 individuals at 9 hospitals in China who experienced migraines for over one year, with two or three migraines in the 3 months prior to the investigation, were enrolled to participate in the study.
The researchers randomly assigned the volunteers to four groups. Those in one group received sham acupuncture, while participants in the other three groups received different types of acupuncture. Their ages ranged from 18 to 65 years.
In the United States and England, migraines affect approximately 16% to 18% of women and 6% to 8% of men. Evidence on how effective acupuncture is at treating migraines is mixed, as some studies suggest it is the placebo effect, instead of a therapeutic effect that relieves symptoms. Acupuncture distinguishes between real acupuncture points and non-acupuncture (sham) points.
Dr. Fan-rong Liang, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China, explains: “We found that the outcomes following acupuncture were significantly better than with sham acupuncture during weeks 13-16, but the effect was clinically minor.”
After 16 weeks, approximately half to three-quarters of participants were better after sham acupuncture and proper acupuncture. The researchers said: “Acupuncture has a large effect on treating migraines, but the specific therapeutic effect may be minor.”
In an associated commentary, Dr. Albrecht Molsberger, Ruhr University, Bochum, Germany and the University of North Carolina, explains that according to previous evidence, acupuncture helps treat severe migraine attacks.
Molsberger explains: “On the basis of the existing evidence, acupuncture should be an option for the first-line treatment of migraine to supplement other non-pharmacologic treatment options.”
In a second randomized controlled trial, investigators in the Netherlands enrolled 490 patients from 64 general practices, 233 of them attended consultations to assess treatment of their migraines, as well as 257 in the control group. The researchers set out to examine whether a proactive approach by primary care physicians to patients with suboptimal migraine treatment would result in improvements.
In the Netherlands, only 8% to 12% of all patients with migraines used prophylaxis, while a considerable amount of individuals used too much medication for migraine attacks.
Even though more individuals took prescription medication to prevent migraines as a result of the approach, the researchers observed no clinically relevant effect after six months.
Dr. Antonia Smelt, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands, with co-authors, explained: “We found no clinically relevant effect of a proactive approach to migraine in primary care for patients who were using two or more doses of triptan per month.”
The researchers conclude:
“It is possible that the intervention resulted in better treatment for patients not using prophylactic medication at baseline who had two or more attacks of migraine per month. Future interventions in primary care should target these patients.”
SOURCE:
Migraine – The Enigma Of Trial Results; Grace Rattue; Medical News Today; January 2012; http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/240139.php
Share this:
Tumblr
More
Twitter
LinkedIn
Facebook
Print
Pinterest
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in Health, Migraine Healing	| Tagged acupuncture, complementary alternative medicine, management, medication, migraine, points, prophylactic, research, sham, skin, treatment
July 25, 2009 by Mamta Singh
What the Migraineurs Should Know About The Triptan Drugs
(Source: http://tinyurl.com/l332mz )
Triptans are the relatively new weaponry in the scientists’ arsenal in migraine management and treatment. They work at the neurochemical (serotonin receptor) level. Triptans are not painkillers. All the Triptan drugs act at the wall of the blood vessels (especially cranial/dural blood vessels) and cause their constriction (or narrowing) called vasoconstriction, thus offsetting the swelling that causes the pain. It is also effective in alleviating some of the other symptoms of migraine attack such as sensitivity to light and sound. It acts towards stimulating the release of serotonin in the bloodstream.
Triptan range of medication includes chemicals Frovatriptan, Naratriptan, Eletriptan, Sumatriptan, Almotriptan and Rizatriptan. They should however, never be mixed with ergotamine drugs or any other drug stated in the drug literature or by the doctor. In addition, they are not to be taken in conjunction with any anti-depressant that is known to increase serotonin levels. Neither are they indicated for use by hemiplegic and basilar artery migraineurs.
All of these medications have similar possible side effects such as those of dizziness, fatigue, tingling sensations on skin, dryness of mouth, hot flashes, chest pain or tightness, sensitivity to temperatures, joint pains, coronary artery vasospasm, transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation, serotonin syndrome etc.
Triptan drugs are available at pharmacies on showing a doctor’s prescription due to the potential side effects, which may be serious in nature. Some Triptan drugs work faster than the others do. Some others work for longer hours, some have only one set of side effects, and the other Triptans may have another set. This makes it imperative for you to consult your doctor before taking these medications. The doctor will make a decision on a case-to-case basis depending on your migraine frequency, intensity, duration, medical history (especially those of heart, diabetes and hypertension etc).
Copyrights apply on this blog. Refer copyright permissions.
Share this:
Tumblr
More
Twitter
LinkedIn
Facebook
Print
Pinterest
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Posted in Migraine Healing, women	| Tagged Almotriptan, Eletriptan, Frovatriptan, migraine, Naratriptan, pain, prescription, prophylactic, Rizatriptan, side effects, Sumatriptan, Triptan | 1 Comment
Registered member with the All India Medical Writers’ Association (AIMWA)
MIGRAINES FOR THE INFORMED WOMAN
Buy MIGRAINES FOR THE INFORMED WOMAN: Tips From a Sufferer MIGRAINES FOR THE INFORMED WOMAN: Tips From a Sufferer by	Mamta Singh Category: Health Number of pages: 135 Book Size: 5.1x7.75 Book Weight (Hardbound): gm Book Weight (Paperback): 150 gm Published in: 08/01/2009 Available in: Paperbound ISBN_PB: 9788129115171 BUY Shipping Info: Usually ships in 10-15 Days days. Delivery depends upon courier service.	List Price:	USD 8	PB Our Price:	USD 8
MENTOR YOUR MIND
Mentor Your Mind, Tested Mantras For The Busy Woman Category: Health, Mind, Body, Spirit Paperback: 174 pages Publisher: Sterling Publishers (July 14, 2011) Language: English ISBN-10: 8120759737 ISBN-13: 978-8120759732 Product Dimensions: 8.4 x 5.4 x 0.5 inches Shipping Weight: 7.8 ounces
THE COMPLETE FITNESS GUIDE FOR WOMEN
An essential fitness guide for any woman who wants an active life and a healthy body. Physical fitness, as it is understood today, is not merely about exercising or healthy eating; it must involve both aspects. But there is still more to a fit and healthy life than just a focus on food and exercise. The Complete Fitness Guide for Women lays the foundation for long-term health. In this volume, Mamta Singh provides you with exercise plans that specifically target cardiovascular training, strength and weight training, and stretching. Whether you are a beginner or someone who is already working out, this book will have a program suitable for you; these exercise programs can be done at home or at the gym. The Complete Fitness Guide for Women empowers you by helping you understand and respect your body and its unique requirements, so you can develop a body that is not just slim, but healthy and strong as well. The power is truly within YOU!
File Size: 1317 KB
Print Length: 177 pages
Publisher: Hay House (October 1, 2013)
Sold by: Amazon Digital Services, Inc.
Language: English
ASIN: B00GN6ZZ2I
Text-to-Speech: Enabled
Archives
January 2018
August 2017
December 2015
May 2015
April 2015
February 2015
January 2015
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
December 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
September 2011
September 2009
July 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
Search
Blogroll
EmpowHer Articles By The Author
Full Circle Fitness
The Headache Coach
Treadmills (Health & Fitness)
Recent Comments
Jan Mundo on New Beginnings, New Year
Mamta Singh on New Beginnings, New Year
Jan Mundo on New Beginnings, New Year
Mamta Singh on New Beginnings, New Year
Jan Mundo on New Beginnings, New Year
ache acute American Academy of Neurology attack aura beta-blockers Botox brain caffeine calcium cardiovascular CGRP chronic clinical trials debilitating depression disability disorder dizziness dopamine drug electrical pulses Eletriptan endorphin endorphins episode exercise FDA frequency headache hypertension Ibuprofen Imitrex injection intensity International Headache Congress 2013 lesions magnesium management medication migraine migraines migraineur migraineurs Naproxen Naratriptan nausea nerve neurological neurology pain patents placebo Pranayama prevention prophylactic research risk Rizatriptan serotonin side effects stress stroke studies study Sumatriptan surgery symptoms throbbing treatment trigger triptans white matter women workout
Blog Stats
43,542 hits
USE TINY URLs
Enter a long URL to make tiny:
CREATIVE COMMONS ATTRIBUTION-NONCOMMERCIAL, NO DERIVATIVE WORKS 3.0 UNITED STATES LICENSE
Migraines In Women by Mamta Singh is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License.
Based on a work at www.migrainingjenny.wordpress.com.
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
© MigrainingJenny and Migraines In Women, [2017 – 2018]. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this blog’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to Mamta Singh and ‘Migraines In Women’ with appropriate and specific direction to the original content.
COPYSCAPE ACTIVATED BLOG
Pages
About The Author
April 2019
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
« Jan
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
Articles For leading bone site AlgaeCal.com
Blogroll
Treadmills (Health & Fitness) Health and Fitness Site
The Headache Coach Complimentary Alternative Therapy
EmpowHer Articles By The Author Heart and Wellness site where the author of this blog writes
Full Circle Fitness My other blog at Wordpress
Healthline.com
Search the Web's best health sites
Facebook
Mamta Singh
Create your badge
Follow Migraines In Women on WordPress.com
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Advertisements
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: