Prenatal Vitamin Ingredients - American Pregnancy Association
Member Login
Ovulation Calendar
Pregnancy Calculator
Baby Names
Member Login
American Pregnancy Association
Follow Your Pregnancy Week-By-Week
Subscribe to our free week-by-week email newsletter
Enroll Now
Toggle navigation
Trying To Conceive
Getting Pregnant
Infertility
Adoption
Planning and Preparing
Prenatal Testing
Preventing Pregnancy
Your Pregnancy
Your Developing Baby
Pregnancy Wellness
Multiples Pregnancy
Week by Week
Naturally
Pregnancy Concerns
Unplanned Pregnancy
Pregnancy Complications
Birth Defects & Disorders
Is it Safe While Pregnant
Medications & Pregnancy
Pregnancy Loss
Birth & Beyond
Labor and Birth
Birth & Beyond
Breastfeeding
Women’s Health
About
Blog
Discussion
About APA
Online Advertising
Medical Advisory Committee
Corporate Sponsor Info
Corporate Sponsors
Delivering Excellence
Fertility Shop
(800) 672-2296
Live Chat
中文
English
Español
Donate
Prenatal Vitamin Ingredients
Home / Pregnancy Wellness / Prenatal Vitamin Ingredients
The importance of proper nutrition during pregnancy cannot be overstated. It is not only essential to a mother’s health, it is vital for the development and overall well being of her baby.
Due to the increased energy requirements during the life stages of pregnancy and lactation, the daily requirements for many micronutrients are also higher in order to meet these physiological changes in pregnant women.
As such, a quality prenatal vitamin is always recommended for future moms to ensure they are supplementing with the essential nutrients needed to support a healthy pregnancy, as well as a healthy baby.
So what nutrients should future moms be looking for in their prenatal vitamin?
Get our Free American Pregnancy Association app: iOS Android. It features meal recommendations, kick counter, blood glucose tracking, and more.
Prenatal Vitamin Ingredients
We’ve compiled a comprehensive list of recommended micro nutrients based on The Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the Institute of Medicine that can be used as a referencing tool when making a selection (15, 16):
Vitamin A: Vitamin A is involved in the regulation of gene expression, growth, and development, cellular production, vision, and immunity. Forms of Vitamin A, known as retinoids, are essential for embryonic and fetal development including the formation of the eyes, ears, limbs, and heart (12, 14).
Vitamin B Complex: The B-vitamins, Thiamine (B1), Riboflavin (B2), Niacin (B3), Pantothenic Acid (B5), Biotin (B7), Pyridoxine (B6), Folate (B9) and Cobalamin (B12), are amongst some of the most important vitamins to supplement with during pregnancy. While all of the B-vitamins are essential, Folate sits at the top of the list for its imperative role in creating red blood cells, proteins and DNA. In addition to playing a vital role in the healthy development of the baby, folate has also shown in numerous studies to play a large role in the prevention of birth defects (9). Folate is preferable over folic acid, or the synthetic form of folate typically found in various fortified supplements and foods. Vitamin B deficiencies during pregnancy can cause fetal abnormalities and various side effects to the mother including hair loss, anemia, digestive problems, lower immune response, weakness, and fatigue.
Vitamins C & E: Vitamin C and Vitamin are two antioxidant vitamins that play a vital role in the production of collagen, a structural protein found in cartilage, tendons, bones, and skin. As antioxidants, they also support a healthy immune system and protect against oxidative damage (1).
Vitamin D: Vitamin D is recognized as its function in bone health, however, Vitamin D also plays a number of other roles in health and disease prevention. Vitamin D levels affect pregnant women’s blood pressure, mood and brain function, and immunity, and as such, avoiding deficiencies is imperative to the health of mom and baby (6, 18).
Calcium: Calcium supplementation supports the development of the baby’s bones while simultaneously protecting the mother from bone loss while carrying the baby (5). Calcium has also been shown to support the functioning of the circulatory, nervous and muscular systems.
Iron: Iron requirements are significantly increased during pregnancy. While the mineral is needed for a variety of biological functions, the mineral is generally needed to support growth and development of the fetus and placenta during pregnancy, in addition to meeting the increased demand for red blood cells to transport oxygen. Iron deficiency is the primary cause of anemia during pregnancy (8), and as such, supplementing with iron during pregnancy is crucial.
Iodine: Sufficient intake of iodine is required for maternal thyroid hormone production, and thyroid hormone is necessary for myelination of the central nervous system and healthy fetal brain development (10). Iodine deficiencies have been shown to lead to inadequate production of thyroid hormone during pregnancy which can lead to irreversible brain damage, miscarriage, stillbirth and birth defects (11, 17).
Magnesium, Sodium & Potassium: Electrolytes are chemicals that support hydration within the body which is necessary for functions including transmissions of nerve impulses and muscle contractions. Magnesium, perhaps the most important electrolyte to supplement with during pregnancy, is required for healthy development and supports sufficient blood flow to the brain (3).
Zinc: Zinc deficiencies are common in pregnant women due to rapid cell growth, and as such, proper supplementation is imperative. Zinc deficiencies during pregnancy have been associated with adverse outcomes including low birth weight, premature delivery and labor complications (13).
Choline Bitartrate: In small amounts, choline can be synthesized by the body, but dietary intake is needed to maintain sufficient health (4). Choline is vital for embryonic and fetal brain development, healthy liver function and placental function (19). During pregnancy and lactation, a mother naturally delivers large amounts of choline to the fetus across the placenta and to the baby through breast milk, which places a larger demand on internal stores. As such, supplementation is key to maintaining adequate choline levels during pregnancy and lactation.
Prenatal Oxylent®l is a corporate sponsor of the American Pregnancy Association. Let us take a moment and share what we like about them and why we allowed them into the APA family.
A special word from our sponsor:
Prenatal Oxylent® is a premium-quality, easy-to-digest prenatal effervescent multi vitamin drink specially formulated to nourish, balance, and support all of our future moms and their babies! Prenatal Oxylent® has all of the nutrients listed above included into a unique formula, so you can ensure you and your baby are receiving the essential nutrients needed to support a healthy pregnancy and delivery.†
Benefits:
Nourishes: Supports the health of mom and baby
Supports: Healthy spinal cord development when taken at the onset of conception.
Balances: Helps reduce nausea as a versus a large pill
Features:
Superior prenatal multi vitamin & mineral content including Methyl Folate!
High-quality Albion® Chelated Minerals backed by science including Ferrochel® iron
Optimal bioavailability via effervescent delivery
No hard to swallow pills—a convenient way to take your prenatal vitamins!
No gluten, dairy, caffeine, soy, herbs, GMOs or sugar—sweetened with pure Stevia
Recommended for Women who:
Don’t enjoy swallowing large pills
Are planning to conceive, pregnant or nursing
Experience nausea and/or constipation with typical prenatal vitamins
Want an easy and refreshing way to drink more water while pregnant
Vitalah (makers of Prenatal Oxylent®) is a corporate sponsor of the American Pregnancy Association. We invite you to learn more about more about Prenatal Oxylent®.
Last updated: November 24, 2018 at 9:06 am
Compiled using information from the following sources:
1. Andrian, UH, Mora, JR. & Iwata, M. Vitamin effects on the immune system. Nat Rev Immunol. 2010.
2. ABarker DJP. Mothers, Babies, and Health in Later Life. 2nd ed. Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone; 1998.
3. Belfort MA, Anthony J, Saade GR, Allen JC, Jr. A comparison of magnesium sulfate and nimodipine for the prevention of eclampsia. N Engl J Med. 2003; 348(4):304-311. (PubMed)
4. Blusztajn JK. Choline, a vital amine. Science. 1998; 281(5378):794-795. (PubMed)
5. Heringhausen, J & Montgomery, KS. Continuing Education Module—Maternal Calcium Intake and Metabolism during Pregnancy and Lactation. J Perinat Educ. 2005.
6. Holmes VA, Barnes MS, Alexander HD, McFaul P, Wallace JM. Vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency in pregnant women: a longitudinal study. Br J Nutr. 2009; 102(6):876-881. (PubMed)
7. Kanaka-Gantenbein C. Fetal origins of adult diabetes. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2010; 1205:99-105. (PubMed)
8. Katz DL. Diet, pregnancy, and lactation. Nutrition in Clinical Practice. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2008:299-309.
9. Folic acid for the prevention of neural tube defects: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med. 2009; 150 (9):626-631. (PubMed)
10. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine. Iodine. Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press; 2001:258-289. (National Academy Press)
11. Pearce EN. Monitoring and effects of iodine deficiency in pregnancy: still an unsolved problem? Eur J Clin Nutr. 2013; 67(5):481-484. (PubMed)
12. Semba RD. The impact of vitamin A on immunity and infection in developing countries. In: Bendich A, Decklebaum RJ, eds. Preventive nutrition: the comprehensive guide for health professionals. 2nd ed. Totowa: Humana Press Inc.; 2001:329-346.
13. Shah D, Sachdev HP. Zinc deficiency in pregnancy and fetal outcome. Nutr Rev. 2006; 64(1):15-30. (PubMed)
14. Solomons NW. Vitamin A and carotenoids. In: Bowman BA, Russell RM, eds. Present knowledge in nutrition. Washington, D.C.: ILSI Press; 2001:127-145.
15. Subcommittee on Interpretation and Uses of Dietary Reference Intakes. Dietary Reference Intakes: Applications in Dietary Assessment. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press; 2000. (The National Academies Press)
16. Subcommittee on Interpretation and Uses of Dietary Reference Intakes and the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of Dietary Reference Intakes. Dietary Reference Intakes: Applications in Dietary Planning. Washington, D.C.: The National Academy Press; 2003. (The National Academies Press)
17. Yu CK, Sykes L, Sethi M, Teoh TG, Robinson S. Vitamin D deficiency and supplementation during pregnancy. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2009; 70 (5):685-690. (PubMed)
18. Zeisel SH. Nutrition in pregnancy: the argument for including a source of choline. Int J Women’s Health. 2013; 5:193-199. (PubMed)
19. World Health Organization, UNICEF, ICCIDD. Assessment of iodine deficiency disorders and monitoring their elimination: a guide for programme managers. 3rd ed.: World Health Organization, 2007.
https://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/micronutrients/iodine_deficiency/9789241595827/en/
Share
Pin
Tweet
Share
18 Shares
Search
Find Healthcare Providers That Can Help You Through Your Pregnancy.
Type Of Provider
Acupuncturist Adoption Professional Birth Center Childbirth Educator Chiropractor Counselor Doula Family Law General Practitioner Genetic Counselor Holistic Healthcare Specialist Homeopath Hospital Infertility Specialist Lactation Consultant Life Insurance Massage Therapist Maternity Home Medicaid Office Midwife Nutritionist Ob-Gyn Pediatrician Pharmacy Physical Therapist Pregnancy Center Support Group WIC Center Yoga or Fitness Instructor
Zip Code
Radius 1 mile 5 miles 10 miles 15 miles 20 miles 30 miles 50 miles 100 miles
Education Supported By
Helpful Information
About
Contact
Corporate Sponsors
Planning
Adoption
Birth & Beyond
Getting Pregnant
Labor and Birth
Pregnancy
Planning and Preparing
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy Concerns
Your Pregnancy
Connect
Contact Us Here Donate to APA
© 2019 American Pregnancy Association. | Web Design by AXZM
The information on this site is not intended or implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. All content, including text, graphics, images, and information, contained on or available through this website is for general information purposes only. The purpose of this is to help with education and create better conversations between patients and their healthcare providers.
Pregnancy Wellness AXZM