12 Essential Oils That Beat Chronic Pain, Anxiety And Depression | I Heart Intelligence.com
Likes
Followers
Saturday, April 20, 2019
I Heart Intelligence.com -
HOME
SHOP
Relationship Tips
Consciousness
Self-development
Science & Tech
SOCIETY
Health
About us
Advertise
Home
Health
12 Essential Oils That Beat Chronic Pain, Anxiety And Depression
Health
12 Essential Oils That Beat Chronic Pain, Anxiety And Depression
By Guest Author On Aug 9, 2018 Last updated Oct 2, 2018
Share
All over the world, there are millions of people battling chronic pain, most commonly as a result of an autoimmune condition. The presence of such complaints has a negative influence on the overall quality of life, increasing the risk for subsequent problems, such as anxiety and depression.
Natural remedies can help you escape from such problems and improve your overall state of health.
Essential oils are some of the best natural remedies we have available, helping us deal with all of the health changes as mentioned.
Keep on reading and discover the best essential oils for you to try out.
1. Cinnamon
Cinnamon essential oil has an amazing scent, but this is not the only reason for which it is so appreciated. It seems that this particular essential oil has potent anti-inflammatory properties, providing relief from pain caused by a number of chronic conditions. Given such properties, it should come as no surprise that this essential oil is recommended to those who suffer from arthritis.
It is also a great natural remedy for joint and muscle pain in general, improving the current level of functionality for the patient in question. It can provide relief from headaches and relieve the pressure associated with sinusitis and other similar conditions. It is prescribed to soothe digestive discomfort, not to mention it can be used to heal the skin in case of infection (soothing effect).
2. Ginger
If you are suffering from chronic pain, ginger oil is an excellent choice. It can provide relief from a wide range of pains, especially those that are associated with digestive disorders. According to the latest research, it seems that ginger is capable of inhibiting the activity of brain chemical transmitters. These are involved with the pain mechanism and often contribute to the aggravation of chronic pain.
Ginger oil is recommended to those who suffer from different forms of arthritis, often associated with joint and muscle discomfort. Used on a regular basis, it brings relief from the pain and inflammation, improving the overall quality of life.
3. Wintergreen
It is often said that wintergreen is the aspirin of nature, as it is rich in a substance which is commonly found in the medication with the same name (methyl salicylate). This plant has excellent pain-relieving properties, is often recommended to those who suffer from chronic pain.
You can use the wintergreen essential oil for a massage or apply it directly on pressure points. It is important to know that wintergreen can provide relief from both joint and muscle pain, being especially beneficial for those who suffer from rheumatoid arthritis. It also works wonders for headaches.
4. Lavender
When it comes to essential oils that can help you beat anxiety and depression, lavender stands at the top of the list. It provides relief from chronic stress, its delicate scent promoting a state of relaxation. High levels of stress, resulting from the excess release of cortisol, have often been associated with autoimmune conditions.
Lavender essential oil brings the necessary relief from stress, is also recommended for its soothing effect on the skin (in case of acne, eczema, etc.). If you suffer from an autoimmune condition, with manifestations such as skin rashes, this can be a great natural remedy to try out. It is also great for rheumatoid arthritis and musculoskeletal conditions.
5. Cedarwood
The cedarwood essential oil is well-known for its anti-inflammatory properties, representing an excellent choice for those who suffer from chronic pain due to autoimmune conditions. It can also be used as a depression treatment, given the soothing effect it has on the nervous system.
You can engage in a massage with cedarwood, as this will bring relief from both joint and muscle pain. If you prefer aromatherapy, cedarwood is great for stress relief and induction of restorative sleep. Many people use cedarwood during their meditation sessions. It is also recommended in case of psoriasis, skin irritation and even to lower the blood pressure level.
6. Bergamot
If you are a fan of aromatherapy, you will definitely love the sweet scent of bergamot oil. It has been demonstrated that this essential oil is great, as it provides the much-desired stress relief and helps with depression at the same time. It promotes an excellent state of health and general well-being, helping you fight anxiety in an efficient manner.
Bergamot oil is recommended to those who suffer from psoriasis and eczema, having a soothing effect on the skin and helping with outbreaks. It has potent antiseptic properties, being used on small wounds. It also helps you eliminate harmful toxins from the body.
7. Frankincense
This particular essential oil is appreciated for its potent anti-inflammatory properties. It is especially recommended to those who suffer from lupus, as it can improve the response of the immune system and alleviate the subsequent manifestations.
Apart from having a healing effect at a cellular level, it has a soothing effect on the skin. It is often used for aromatherapy, having wonderful stress-relieving properties and a positive effect on the mind. When you are stressed or worried, frankincense can help you obtain peace of mind and stay centered.
8. Peppermint
Peppermint is often used to obtain relief from digestive disorders. For example, if you are suffering from inflammatory bowel syndrome, you can mix the peppermint with organic coconut oil and massage your abdomen. This will bring relief from the symptoms experienced.
It is also known that peppermint essential oil can reduce the joint stiffness associated with autoimmune conditions. It supports muscle health, and it is a great choice for pressure point massage or general massage. It can boost circulation and relieve congestion in case of colds. Last, but not least, it has a positive effect on mental health, protecting any kind of mental illness.
9. Clary sage
Chronic stress is one of the major factors that have a negative influence on the overall quality of life, making the manifestations of autoimmune conditions worse. You can use clary sage essential oil to alleviate stress, thus improving the subsequent autoimmune symptoms.
Clary sage essential oil can protect against mood swings, not to mention it is an excellent remedy against depression and anxiety. It is also recommended to those who suffer from insomnia, promoting restorative sleep and helping you wake up well-rested in the morning. It has hormone-balancing properties and, used as an infusion; it can help with dry skin.
10. Valerian
Valerian essential oil has a wide range of benefits to offer, starting with the fact that it can balance hormones and help with sleep disorders. It can stimulate restful sleep and lower both anxiety and depression. Used on a regular basis, it can improve the overall mood and eliminate the negative energy accumulated as a result of chronic stress.
If you have abnormally high levels of stress hormones, valerian essential oil might be just what you needed. It can bring balance back to your body, allowing you to maintain a state of peace, calm and relaxation.
11. Lemongrass
Lemongrass essential oil has excellent pain-relieving properties, working wonders on inflammatory and autoimmune conditions. It can improve joint and muscle health, provide relief in case of headaches and help with the manifestations of viral infections.
It has also been discovered that lemongrass is wonderful for boosting one’s self-esteem and fighting depression. It improves mental health and builds up resilience to stress. It relieves anxiety and prevents mood swings, is also recommended to women who are breastfeeding, as it promotes lactation.
12. St. John’s Wort
St. John’s Wort essential oil is often appreciated for its antidepressant qualities, relieving the symptoms of depression and anxiety. It can stimulate the release of beneficial neurotransmitters in the brain, such as dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine.
Used on a regular basis, it prevents mood swings, and it regulates the hormonal balance, promoting a better state of health overall. It is the perfect choice for dealing with chronic stress, is recommended to those who are battling with chronic fatigue and other similar problems.
In conclusion, these are some of the best essential oils for you to try out, in case you are dealing with chronic pain, depression, and anxiety.
As you have seen, these can be used for massage, as infusion or aromatherapy, having a wide range of other benefits to offer.
Share FacebookTwitterPinterestWhatsAppViberGoogle+ReddItEmail
Prev Post
10 Obvious Signs of Overthinking and How To Deal With It
Next Post
10 Typical Personality Traits of Psychopaths That Could Help You Identify Them Immediately
You might also like
Consciousness
People Affected By Depression Explain What It Really Is To Suffer From It
Health
5 Daily Battles That Every Person With High-Functioning Depression Faces
Health
5 Daily Steps That Ensure an Awesomely Happier Life
Health
15 Science-Backed Foods that Boost Sex Drive
Health
The Long-Term Effects of Drinking Alcohol
Health
11 Pains That May Be Directly Linked To Your Emotional State
Prev Next
Check Out Our Best Products:
Follow Us @iheartintelligence
Facebook Join us on Facebook
Instagram Join us on Instagram
I HEART INTELLIGENCE © 2018 - All Rights Reserved.
PRIVACY POLICY | DISCLAIMER
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Accept Read More