Yoga Bristol - Benefits of Yoga
HOME
Yoga Courses
Benefits of Yoga
DROP-IN CLASSES
Yoga Workshops
PERSONAL YOGA TUITION
Pregnancy Yoga
Drop-in Classes
CONTACT
ARTICLES
TESTIMONIALS
Gallery
Links
Benefits of a regular yoga practice
Yoga acts both as a curative and preventive therapy. According to
medical scientists, yoga therapy is successful because of the
balance created in the nervous and endocrine systems which
directly influences all the other systems and organs of the body.
Benefits for the Physiological Level
Increasing flexibility.
Cure and prevent Arthritis - The yoga poses (asanas), act upon the
various joints of the body, including those joints that we never really
use. By practicing yoga poses we can experience a remarkable
increase in the flexibility of the joints, ligaments and tendons. Yoga
is exercise and relaxation combined and this is the perfect
anti-arthritis formula. Yoga's slow-motion movements and
gentle pressures, reach deep into strained joints.
Also, the easy stretches in conjunction with deep breathing exercises
relieve the tension that binds up the muscles and further tightens the
joints.
Cure and prevent back pain - Back pain is the most common
reason to seek medical attention in the West. Yoga has consistently
been used to cure and prevent back pain by enhancing strength and
flexibility.
Massaging to all the internal vital organs of the body - Research
has shown that yoga poses are the only form of activity that
massages all of the internal glands and organs of the body and
this promotes good health and well-being.
Complete detoxification - Yoga poses (asanas) helps to gently
stretch the muscles and joints allowing the optimum blood supply
to various parts of the body. This helps to flush the toxins out of
the body. This leading to benefits such as delayed ageing,
providing energy and a remarkable zest for life.
Excellent toning of the muscles - Yoga practice can stimulate the
muscles that have become flacid and weak.
Provide balance in the nervous system - yoga is a great form of
mediation in motion and that can balance the nervous system.
Reduction of stress - Because yoga practice is a slow and gentle
form of exercise combined with breathing exercises, it can relieve
body stress.
Cure and prevent respiration problems and asthma - Various
studies have confirmed the beneficial effects of yoga for patients
with respiratory problems. Physicians have found that the practice of
asanas in combination with breathing exercises and meditation makes
the treatment of asthma more effective. It has also been proved that
asthma attacks can usually be prevented by yoga practice, without
resorting to drugs. Patients who practice yoga have a better chance of
gaining the ability to control their breathing problems. With the
help of yogic breathing exercises, it is possible to control an attack of
severe shortness of breath without having to seek medical help.
High Blood Pressure (hypertension) - The yoga postures, yogic
breathing (pranayama) and the deep relaxation techniques (yoga
nidra), which are basic components of yoga, have a major role to play
in the treatment or prevention of high blood pressure and reduce the
need for high blood pressure medication for people suffering from it.
Pain Management - Concentration during yoga postures,
breathing exercises, deep relaxation techniques and meditation can
also help reduce pain. Yoga is believed to reduce pain by helping the
brain's pain centre regulate the gate-controlling mechanism located
in the spinal cord and the secretion of natural painkillers in the body.
Weight Reduction - Yogic practices that reduce anxiety tend to
reduce anxious eating. Regular yoga practice can help in weight
management, for the reason that some asanas stimulate sluggish
glands, to increase their hormonal secretions. There are specific
asanas, such as the shoulder stand (Sarvangasana) or the fish
pose (Matsyasana), which are targeted on the thyroid gland. This
gland has a great effect on our weight because it affects the body's
metabolism rate. Fat metabolism is also increased, so fat is
converted to muscle and energy and we have better muscle tone and
a higher vitality level.
Also, the practice of "yogic breath" (yogic deep breathing) increases
the oxygen intake to the body cells, including the fat cells. This
causes increased oxidation or burning up of fat cells.
Benefits for the Psychological Level
Self-awareness - Yoga practice increases the self-awareness. The
yoga practitioner learns to act instead of reacting. They start to
control their feelings and learn to be conscious, living the
moment, the Now and not in the past or in the future.
Self-confidence, or low self-confidence, is something, which Yoga
seeks to eliminate through the practices. Someone with low
self-respect cannot do their work properly or becomes easily tired,
irritable and haggard. One who practices yoga starts to believe
deeply in themselves and in the incredible potentials, which they
have inside.
Vitality and Change of Mood - Everyone who practices yoga over a
period of time, reports a positive effect on both their outer
appearance and energy level. Yogic postures with breathing exercises
have been seen to result in having an invigorating effect on physical
energy and improved mood.
Benefits for the Mental Level
Mental balancing - A common breathing (pranayama) practice in
yoga is the "alternative nostrils breathing" (Nadi Shodhana
Pranayama). Electroencephalogram (EEG) studies of the electrical
impulses of the brain have shown that breathing through one nostril,
results in increased activity on the opposite side of the brain. The
regular practice of alternative nostrils helps to improve communication
between the right and left side of the brain.
Benefits for the Spiritual Level
Self-knowledge - Yogic philosophy and practice lead to increased
Self-knowledge. This experienced knowledge is merely the spiritual
side of yoga practice, which has as a goal to cultivate the "Observer"
and increase the knowledge of the nature of the Self.
Knowing the Self, the Observer, which is a genuine kind of
knowledge, tends to get lost in the hectic pace of our daily lives and
pursuit of desires. The discovering of the Self, inside us, is indeed the
mostprecious spiritual value in our life.
HOME
Yoga Courses
Benefits of Yoga
DROP-IN CLASSES
Yoga Workshops
PERSONAL YOGA TUITION
Pregnancy Yoga
Drop-in Classes
CONTACT
Gallery
Social networks
Share on Facebook
Share on Bebo
Share on Twitter
Share on Digg
Share on Stumbleupon
Share on del.icio.us
Share on Reddit
Latest Images
© Yoga Bristol | created at www.mrsite.com