Exercising to improve symptoms of depression – Articles – Familiprix
Pharmacy
Familiprix
Shop
My Familiprix account
Français
FR
My Health Profile
Ask a pharmacist
Appointment
Familiplus
Account settings
Exercising to improve symptoms of depression
Depression
Physical activity
A small study published in the online journal of Clinical Practice and Epidemiology in Mental Health, suggests that being physically active may help improve symptoms of depression in individuals who do not respond to antidepressant medication.
Several studies previously demonstrated that physically active people are less susceptible of suffering from depression, than those who are sedentary. Clinical trials have also shown regular physical activity to be a beneficial part of the treatment for depression. In some cases, physical activity alone could be sufficient in treating the condition, without having to resort to antidepressants. A small study from the University of Cagliari, in Italy, actually demonstrates that regular physical exercise can have a positive impact on the treatment of patients with major depression whose symptoms do not respond to classical pharmacological treatments.
The Italian study followed 30 women between the ages of 40 and 60 who had been diagnosed with major depression but had failed to improve after at least two months of treatment with an antidepressant. The women were divided into two groups. Women from the first group were to continue their treatment with antidepressants, in addition to meeting for an hour twice a week to exercise as a group. Women from the second group were also asked to pursue their regular treatment with antidepressants, but without doing any exercise.
The study demonstrated a notable improvement in the symptoms of depression for the women who had done regular physical activity, in addition to their regular treatment with antidepressants. The symptoms of the women who had been assigned to the second group, who did not exercise, only showed minimal improvement. Researchers concluded that doing regular physical activity could act as a complementary treatment for depression.
Various theories have been put forth to explain the benefits of exercise in the treatment of depression. For example, it is believed that physical activity has a direct effect on brain molecules called neurotrophins, which play a role in symptoms of depression, and transmit signals to regions of the brain related to mood. It is also believed that exercising affects two key nervous system chemicals called norepinephrine and serotonin.
Additionally, people who participate in group activities could also benefit from interacting with other people and being more socially involved. Depressive individuals tend to isolate themselves from others, perpetuating feelings of sadness, inadequacy and dejection.
This is another really good argument to convince you to be physically active!
Also in: Depression
Reducing stress can improve your chances of getting pregnant
If you’re having trouble getting pregnant, it’s easy to fall into a vicious cycle: the longer it takes, the more stress you feel, and more stress can interfere with fertility.
Read article
4 benefits of exercise on mental health
Let there be light!
Perinatal depression: Fathers can get it too!
Omega-3s are not useful against depression
Seasonal affective disorder
La dépression, ce mal invisible
Also in: Physical activity
Making time in your life for physical activity
Want to get back in shape but not sure where to start? Feel like there aren’t enough minutes in the day to add yet another activity? Here are a few tips to help you walk the talk!
Read article
4 benefits of exercise on mental health
Discover the walking or cycling school bus
Exercising while pregnant
Tips for safe outdoor fun this winter
Start the year on the right foot!
Movember, a month dedicated to a good cause!
The drugs and pharmaceutical services featured on the familiprix.com website are offered by pharmacists who own the affiliated pharmacies at Familiprix. The information contained on the familiprix.com site is for informational purposes only and does not in any way replace the advice and advice of your pharmacist or any other health professional. Always consult a health professional before taking or discontinuing medication or making any other decision. Familiprix inc. and the proprietary pharmacists affiliated with Familiprix do not engage in any way by making this information available on this website.
My Health Profile
The best place to stay in touch with your pharmacist. Easily keep an eye on your health.
Transfer My Health Profile
Sign in
Our newsletter
Subscribe to the Familiprix newsletter to receive the flyer and personalized promotions.
Subscribe
Available jobs
Headquarters 7
Warehouse 2
In pharmacies 96
Our applications
My Pharmacy
My Pregnancy
My Diabetes
My Familiplus
Pharmacy
Ask a pharmacist
Renew a prescription
Transfer My Health Profile
Make an appointment
Find a pharmacy
Information and advice
View more
Health topics
Travel
Medications
Vitamins and natural products
Shop
Familiplus
Flyer
Contests
Photo
Familiprix
Why Familiprix?
News
Work at Familiprix
Contact us
Follow us Facebook
Follow us Instagram
Follow us YouTube
Privacy policy
Terms of use
All rights reserved. © Familiprix 2019