Depression in later life: who benefits from antidepressants plus exercise?
Menu
Evidence-based practice
Community
Continuing Professional Development
News
Search National Elf Service
No bias. No misinformation. No spin. Just what you need!
The Mental Elf
Home
About
Categories
Cost effectiveness
Evaluation and impact assessment
Financial management
Financial sustainability
Integration
Needs assessment
Outcomes based commissioning
Partnership working
Population health
Resource allocation
Service reconfiguration
Service review and improvement
Specialised commissioning
Strategy development and planning
Technology
Urgent care
Variation
caries
cleft lip and palate
dental workforce
endodontics
oral and maxillofacial surgery
oral cancer
oral health
oral medicine and pathology
orthodontics
periodontal disease
restorative dentistry
temporomandibular joint disorders
tooth surface loss
Diagnosis
brain imaging
diagnostic test
risk factors
screening programme
screening test
ICT
learning styles
phonics
reading
science
social emotional
social skills
wellbeing
autistic spectrum disorder
challenging behaviour
communication
down syndrome
parents with learning disabilities
prader-willi syndrome
profound and multiple learning disability
Mental health
ADHD
anxiety
bipolar disorder
dementia
depression
eating disorders
OCD
panic disorder
personality disorders
psychosis
PTSD
schizophrenia
self-harm
sleep disorders
substance misuse
suicide
autoimmune and inflammatory diseases
fibromyalgia
fractures and dislocations
musculoskeletal pain
neck and back pain
osteoarthritis
osteoporosis
rheumatoid arthritis
soft tissue injuries
spinal conditions
spondyloarthropathies
Other health conditions
blood-borne viruses
cancer
cardiovascular disease
chronic fatigue syndrome
comorbidity
epilepsy
sleep apnoea
traumatic brain injury
Populations and settings
advocacy
black and minority ethnic
caregivers
child and adolescent
commissioning
community settings
crime
deinstitutionalisation
employment
end of life
family carers
hospital admissions
housing
later life
liaison psychiatry
loneliness
older adult
parenting
patient safety
perinatal mental health
poverty
pregnancy
primary care
quality of life
schools
secondary care
service user involvement
shared care
sport
training
vulnerable people
young adult
Publication types
appraisal
audit
case study
case-control
cohort study
consultation
cross-sectional
economic analysis
economic evaluation
guideline
legislation
literature review
meta-analysis
mixed methods
observational study
patient information
policy
prospective study
qualitative
questionnaire
randomised controlled trial
report
scoping review
statistics
survey
systematic review
technology assessment
training resource
website
coproduction
equality and diversity
evidence based social care
home care
integration
local authorities
nursing homes
personal budgets and direct payments
personalisation
reablement
residential care
safeguarding
social care decision making
social care training
social care workforce
social work
support planning
user led organisations
voluntary and community sector
Treatment
antidepressants
antipsychotics
CBT
cognitive bias modification (cbm)
complementary and alternative
digital health
exercise
medicines
mental illness prevention
mindfulness
other
psychotherapy
rehabilitation
self-management
surgical
systems
telehealth
topical
Podcasts
#ElfieSelfie
Search
Search National Elf Service
Home » Posts » Treatment » exercise » Depression in later life: who benefits most from antidepressants plus exercise?
Depression in later life: who benefits most from antidepressants plus exercise?
3 Responses »
Apr 24 2017
Posted by
Linda Gask
There has been a great deal written about exercise in depression, not least in previous Elf blogs (e.g. Tomlin A, 2012 a & b; Hasselman H, 2014). In recent years some studies, particularly TREAD (Chalder et al 2012), suggested no benefit from adding exercise to routine care, but the conclusion of NICE remains that exercise is effective (NICE, 2013).
Depression in later life is often accompanied by significant cognitive impairment, disability, suicide risk and physical co-morbidity and there is increasing evidence for the effectiveness of physical exercise for depressed older people (Bridle et al, 2012; Chi et al, 2013; Johnson S, 2014). The problem is that translation of research findings into clinical practice can be difficult and the majority of older people with depression are treated in busy primary care settings.
The aim of this study by Zanetidou and colleagues (2016) was to identify which participant characteristics (moderators) and contextual factors influenced the translation into clinical practice of interventions based on physical exercise (PE) as an adjunct to antidepressants (AD) for the treatment of late life major depression.
NICE recommend exercise for depression, but this is based on sparse evidence of effectiveness in clinical practice.
Methods
This was a secondary analysis of a multicentre, single-blind randomised controlled trial of treatment for late life major depression (LLMD) in primary care (the Safety and Efficacy of Exercise for Depression in Seniors (SEEDS) study) (Belvederi et al, 2015).
In the SEEDS study, participants (aged 65-85 years and meeting 3 criteria- DSM-IV Major Depressive Disorder with a 17 item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) score of 18 or more, physical condition compatible with exercising and sedentary), received either antidepressants (AD: sertraline) or antidepressants + physical exercise (AD+PE).
They were recruited from 4 centres, which were already engaged with an established regional primary care consultation-liaison service. Assessments for inclusion were carried out by the study psychiatrist (using HAM-D and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale to assess severity), cardiologist, and geriatrician (medical history, comorbidities using the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA)). Maximum oxygen intake (VO2 max) was also measured before and after the study.
The main outcome measure was remission defined as a HAM-D score of 10 or less.
The SEEDS intervention: lasted for 24 weeks. Participants were randomised to 3 groups:
Antidepressants only (n=42)
Antidepressants plus low intensity non-progressive exercise (NPE) (n=37)
Antidepressants plus high intensity, progressive aerobic exercise (PAE) (n=42)
Secondary analysis
For moderators of treatment remission:
A set of a priori defined factors that might influence response to antidepressants or the ability of older people to exercise was identified, including age, marital status, sex, living status and education.
Factors related to participant physical condition were analysed: weight, comorbidity (CIRS comorbidity index), musculoskeletal problems, cardiovascular disease (defined according to CIRS items), level of physical activity (International Physical Activity Questionnaire score), aerobic capacity (VO2max).
Polypharmacy was defined as taking two or more medications other than sertraline daily. Other psychotropic drugs such as sedatives and anxiolytics were counted only if participants used them regularly, although the study protocol discouraged it.
Next, mental health factors were explored (depression (HAM-D score), age of onset of depression, number of episodes of depression, previous treatment with AD, anxiety (HAD anxiety subscale), psychomotor retardation (HAM-D Item 8 score), mild cognitive impairment (baseline MOCA total score), and executive or visuospatial domain impairment (MOCA item 1 score).
Analyses of moderators were conducted by testing the interaction between moderator and treatment (AD vs. AD + PE), based on logistic regression.
For significant moderators, three measures of treatment effect size were computed:
Success rate difference (SRD, difference between proportions of participants remitting with AD + PE and AD)
Number needed to treat (NNT, equivalent to 1/SRD)
Moderator effect size (difference of SRDs between participants with and without the characteristics of interest).
Whether the characteristics of the study setting influenced participant flow and attendance at exercise sessions was then explored, and GPs were surveyed regarding their opinions on physical exercise as a treatment for late life major depression.
Results
In the main study those receiving the combined interventions achieved remission from depression more frequently and earlier than those receiving only antidepressants. As differences in the rates of remission from depression in the AD + PAE (low intensity) and AD + NPE (high intensity) were not significant, they were combined in a single group for purposes of moderator analyses.
Participant characteristics
Participant characteristics associated with greater likelihood of achieving remission from depression with AD + PE than with AD alone were:
Aged 75 and older (effect size 0.32)
Polypharmacy (0.35)
Greater aerobic capacity (0.48)
Displaying psychomotor slowing (0.49)
Less severe anxiety (0.30)
The longer the liaison service had been established at a particular centre, the more individuals were recruited.
Prescribing exercise
Before the study, GPs reasons for not prescribing exercise were: lack of infrastructure (58%), not thought effective (50%), thinking individuals wouldn’t comply (50%), and physical condition (33%).
After participation, the majority of GPs were much more positive about exercise for LLMD, and 80% stated that they had prescribed exercise for their elderly patients to treat their depressive symptoms.
This study identifies a number of patient characteristics associated with achieving greater remission from depression when combining exercise with antidepressants.
Conclusions
The combination of PE and sertraline could improve the management of LLMD, especially when customised for individuals with specific clinical features.
Liaison programs might influence the implementation of similar interventions in primary care, and PCPs viewed them positively.
Strengths and limitations
The authors of the study consider that it provides insights into implementation of similar interventions into routine practice, and, in my view key strengths are that not only was it conducted in a primary care setting, but it sought to tease out those individual and contextual factors related to both outcome and uptake.
Admitted weaknesses are lack of inclusion in the original study of either an exercise only group or a control group providing ‘routine care’, and the self-selection of referring GPs.
The extensive physical assessment carried out before starting exercise is also unrealistic in routine practice.
This study is limited by the lack of an exercise-only or control group.
Summary
The authors make some interesting suggestions that further the debate about who might benefit from exercise in older people with depression. The combination of older age, polypharmacy and greater aerobic capacity might identify a group of people with diseases that don’t significantly affect our aerobic capacity (for example diabetes, osteoporosis) or mild cognitive impairment (e.g., retardation, executive dysfunction, apathy- which don’t respond well to antidepressants but do improve with exercise). These people may take more prescriptions but generally remain physically fitter. Or they could simply be those who are usually better at looking after their health anyway and used to exercise before becoming depressed and sedentary. Whatever the case, the physical assessments carried out before exercise would be reassuring to both GP and patient but unrealistic in routine care (none of the GPs had ever prescribed exercise only after a cardiopulmonary stress test (e.g. V02 max).
What is clear is that collaborative multidisciplinary approaches to care are likely to be more effective for people with complex problems, and there are roles for GPs and psychiatrists to work together in both motivating older people with depression to take up exercise and monitor adverse effects of medication and activity. The degree of engagement in primary care liaison by psychiatrists within this region of Italy (Berardi et al, 2014) is consistently impressive (other health care systems take note).
GPs and psychiatrists should work together to motivate older people with depression to take up exercise.
Conflict of interest
I have co-published with one of the researchers in this study.
Links
Primary paper
Zanetidou S, Belvederi Murri M, Menchetti M, Toni G, Asioli F, Bagnoli L, Zocchi D, Siena M, Assirelli B, Luciano C, Masotti M, Spezia C, Magagnoli M, Neri M, Amore M, Bertakis KD and the Safety Efficacy of Exercise for Depression in Seniors Study Group. (2016) Physical Exercise for Late-Life Depression: Customizing an Intervention for Primary Care. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society Version of Record online : 21 NOV 2016, DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14525
Other references
Belvederi Murri M, Amore M, Menchetti M et al.(2015) Physical exercise for late-life major depression. Br J Psychiatry 207 235–242.
Berardi D, Ferrannini L, Menchetti M. et al (2014) Primary care psychiatry in Italy. J Nerv Ment Dis 202:460–463. [PubMed abstract]
Bridle C, Spanjers K, Patel S et al. (2012) Effect of exercise on depression severity in older people: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. British Journal of Psychiatry 201 180-185.
Chalder, M, Wiles NJ, Campbell J.et al (2012) Facilitated physical activity as a treatment for depressed adults: randomised controlled trial. BMJ 344 e2758.
Chi I, Jordan-Marsh M, Guo M. et al. (2013) Tai chi and reduction of depressive symptoms for older adults: A meta-analysis of randomized trials. Geriatrics and Gerontology International 13(1) 3-12 [PubMed abstract]
Hasselmann H. (2014) Does depression make us lethargic or does lack of exercise make us depressed? The Mental Elf 11 Nov 2014.
Johnson S. (2014) Program of regular exercise may be beneficial in reducing depression in older adults. The Mental Elf 18 June 2014.
NICE (2013) Surveillance review of CG90: Depression in adults: management and treatment (update)
Tomlin A. (2012) Here is the evidence for exercising if you are depressed. The Mental Elf 11 June 2012a
Tomlin A. (2012) Exercise doesn’t help with depression. Have the headline writers got it wrong again? The Mental Elf 7 June 2012b
Photo credits
Moodboard CC BY 2.0
Share on Facebook Tweet this on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+
Mark as read
Share this post:
Share on Facebook Tweet this on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+ Share via email
Create a personal elf note about this blog
Tagged with: collaborative care, depression, exercise, general practitioners, Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, later life, liaison psychiatry, physical activity, primary care, randomised controlled trial, sertraline
Linda Gask
Linda Gask is Emerita Professor of Primary Care Psychiatry at the University of Manchester and a retired consultant psychiatrist. Her research interests have included training professionals in mental health skills, improving quality of care for depression, and redesign of services at the interface between primary and specialist care. She has both provided and used mental health care and last year published a memoir: The Other Side of Silence: A Psychiatrist’s memoir of depression.
More posts - Website
Follow me here –
Twitter
Logging In...
Profile cancel
Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Facebook
or
Comment
Name
Email Not published
Website
3 Replies
2 Comments
0 Tweets
0 Facebook
1 Pingback
Last reply was April 28, 2017
Louise Redfern
View April 27, 2017
I’m 56 years old so not quite a senior. Found your article interesting. I am an NHS Clinician and a qualified Psychotherapist working privately. I often say to my clients to consider using exercise(in discussion with their GP) as a means of managing symptoms of depression and anxiety in conjunction with AD if symptoms are severe. I have also suffered from major depression and anxiety and now walk daily in the countryside/ beach for 90 minutes with my dog. It has made such a difference to my life and managing my anxiety.
Reply
Andre Tomlin
View April 27, 2017
Thanks for sharing Louise. I can also testify to the positive impact that dog walking has on my depression and anxiety. I have an especially bouncy Labradoodle called Dudley who is a great antidepressant.
You may also like to read Kirsten Lawson’s Woodland walks and your elf blog from a while back: https://www.nationalelfservice.net/treatment/exercise/woodland-walks-and-your-elf/
Cheers, André
Reply
Dementia Update
View April 28, 2017
[…] Depression in later life: who benefits most from antidepressants plus exercise? […]
Reply
Try out our members features!
Sign up now. It’s free! Or Sign in
We can help you:
1Keep up to date with the latest research
2Connect with experts and colleagues
3Contribute to your professional development
Tell me more about the benefits of membership
Free email newsletter
Enter your email address
FOLLOW the Mental Elf
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Google+
Read our RSS feed
Find us on LinkedIn
Twitter
RT @soniajohnson: @KingsIoPPN @KingsHSPR Three speakers from Kings on the panel for this public discussion with @Mental_Elf on Weds eve! We… about 7 hours ago Reply Retweet Favorite
RT @Andy__Bell__: Have you booked your place at the first ⁦@EquallyWellUK⁩ learning event yet? https://t.co/ACj0s8CLUb about 2 days ago Reply Retweet Favorite
RT @GtownNHS: Check out this webinar, including Dr. @Edilma_Yearwood from @GtownNHS, about the International Mental Health Nursing Research… about 3 days ago Reply Retweet Favorite
@NetworkSmarten @NicolaByrom Fab, let me know when you have a date! Cheers, André about 4 days ago Reply Retweet Favorite
RT @ripfa: Aimed at frontline social care practitioners, our new briefing explains 7 key principles of strengths-based approaches in social… about 4 days ago Reply Retweet Favorite
Mental_Elf
Recent Posts
Compulsory detention under the Mental Health Act: significantly more likely if you come from a BAME or migrant group
How should we assess suicide risk in mental health services, or should we stop doing it?
Suicide risk assessment among psychiatric inpatients: pessimism around predictive power
The impact of racism on mental health
Higher body mass index is associated with a lower subjective wellbeing
Recent Comments
Cat on How should we assess suicide risk in mental health services, or should we stop doing it?
Joe Bloggs on Suicide risk assessment among psychiatric inpatients: pessimism around predictive power
JohnC on Suicide risk assessment among psychiatric inpatients: pessimism around predictive power
Suggest a paper
Do you have a suggestion for a paper? Then let us know.
Click here
Watch our 2 minute promo video!
Visit our other Elf blogs
Child
Commissioning
Dentistry
Diabetes
Education
Learning Disabilities
Lifestyle
Mental Health
Musculoskeletal
Social Care
Stroke
Free trial
Close
Ready to get started? It's free!
Sign up now No thanks Tell me more about the benefits of membership
Search National Elf Service
Free email newsletter
Enter your email address
FOLLOW the Mental Elf
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Google+
Read our RSS feed
Find us on LinkedIn
© 2019 National Elf Service is brought to you by Minervation Ltd
Email: info@nationalelfservice.net
About
Evaluation
Site Map
Terms
Privacy
Cookies
Log In