Fashion Can Be Healthy Too! Know the Benefits of Copper Bracelet
Follow Us:
Give tips on holistic health.
Fashion Can Be Healthy Too! Know the Benefits of Copper Bracelet
Wearing copper bracelets has many positive effects on the health of an individual. Copper bracelet benefits, on the overall body system, can be availed with the regular use of these wristbands...
Marlene Alphonse
Last Updated: Feb 10, 2018
Copper is one of the metals in the Earth's crust and has a number of applications. Copper was also used as a medicinal therapy in parts of the world, for many centuries. The body needs approximately 1.5 to 3 mg, as recommended by physicians. However, this requirement is not fulfilled by dietary intake of copper and the person ended suffering from copper deficiency. Since copper does not get assimilated into the body as easily, copper bracelets came into existence. Apart from bracelets, copper can be donned in the form of rings and chains. In this manner, copper would be readily absorbed into the bloodstream and address the problem. The first time copper bracelets were used was in ancient Egypt from many centuries. From there, this practice has been followed in other parts of the globe and even doctors advice people to use this method of healing. Wearing a copper bracelet is known to provide relief from maladies. Copper bracelets can be purchased from holistic healing centers and health food stores. Read further for more information regarding the beneficial uses of copper bracelets and their effect on the body.
Benefits of Wearing Copper Bracelets
Copper bracelet therapy has proved to be beneficial in treating a number of ailments. Using copper bracelet for pain caused due to arthritis and other inflammatory diseases, is an excellent remedial measure. This conventional method of treatment has been adopted across various cultures and has a placebo effect. Here are some of the benefits of wearing a copper bracelet.
One of the advantages of wearing a copper wristband is that the mineral is easily absorbed in the body. This helps fight copper deficiency, which affects the body in many ways. As the body perspires, sweat is produced and the microminerals like iron and zinc in the copper band combine with it. The body may reabsorb the sweat and in this manner, these minerals enter the bloodstream and yield positive results. A constant low dosage of these minerals strengthen the tissues and joints.
It has been proven that a deficiency of copper in the body can weaken the muscles and joints. As the person ages, the copper content in the body begins to drop resulting in the individual suffering from arthritis and other joint problems. Using copper bracelets for arthritis are effective in reducing the inflammation and pain in the joints. Hence physicians recommend copper bracelets to arthritis patients for significant relief from this joint disorder, without unwanted any side effects.
You can reduce the stiffness of joints by wearing copper wristbands. The copper absorbed into the body through the process of transdermal micronutrition helps reduce the stiffness in the joints, as seen in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. The joints also become flexible thereby attributing free, effortless movement sans pain.
Once the copper enters the bloodstream it begins its action and also balances the amount of zinc in the blood. The molecules of copper attach themselves to the enzymes and trigger the production of hemoglobin. This aids in the repair of the tissues and also heals any internal damage in the body system. An increased hemoglobin also helps strengthen the immune system and prevents the occurrence of a number of infections and diseases.
Wearing a copper bracelet also has a number of positive effects on the cardiovascular system. Copper is known to control erratic blood pressure, which may cause damage to the arteries, and also give rise to aneurysms. All these factors can damage the heart which can prove life-threatening. Teamed with proper diet and exercise, copper bracelets help prevent cardiovascular diseases like atherosclerosis, strokes or heart attacks.
You can continue using them until there are no proven side effects of using copper bracelets. If you want to discontinue the usage of this band, then consult your health care provider who may advice you on the same. Stay healthy!
Share This
Chyawanprash as a Memory Booster
Health Benefits of Chyawanprash
Know How Chyawanprash is Your Immune System's Best Companion
Chyawanprash: The Secret to Healthy Weight Loss
Chyawanprash- The Best Remedy for Cough and Cold
Chyawanprash FAQs Answered
Chyawanprash: An Essential "Supplement" for Yogis
Rose Water Benefits
Neem Oil Benefits
Health Benefits of Turmeric
Himalayan Salt Benefits
Home Remedies for Removing Skin Moles
Chinese Massage Therapy
Red Tea Benefits
Clove Oil Uses
Camphor Uses
Peppermint Tea Benefits
Energy Bracelets - Do They Work?
Itchy Throat Remedy
Epsom Salt Substitutes
Natural Colon Cleansing Recipes
Back Massage Pressure Points
Headache Relief Pressure Points
Upset Stomach Remedies
Natural Cough Suppressant
Home Remedies for Lower Back Pain
Cherry Juice Benefits
Stomach Gas Remedies
Facts on Honey and Cinnamon
Sea Salt Benefits
Eyelid Twitching Remedies
Tooth Pain Relief
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service