Laser Therapy for Hair Loss | Plastic Surgery Dallas TX
Locations
Southlake | Mansfield
Call Us
817-473-2120
About
Procedures
Body
Breast Augmentation
Face
3D Imaging System
Hair Restoration
ARTAS Robotic Hair Transplants
Surgical Treatments
Non-Surgical Treatments
Lasers for Hair Regrowth
HRT
Male Hormone Replacement Therapy
Female Hormone Replacement Therapy
Medspa
Injectables
BOTOX
JUVÉDERM
Other Fillers
Facial Treatments
PhotoFacial
Laser 360
Hydrafacial
Microneedling
Microdermabrasion
Skin Tightening
ClearLift Skin Resurfacing
Peels
Other Treatments
Ultherapy – Non-Surgical Lift
Geneveve Vaginal Rejuvenation
Laser Tattoo Removal
Laser Vein Treatment
Media
Blog
Video Testimonials
Gallery
Body Contouring
Breast Cosmetic Surgery
Facial Cosmetic Surgery
Hair Restoration
Injectables and Fillers
Med Spa Services
Contact Us
Patient Information
Patient Forms
Pricing
Shop
Menu
Hair Loss, Laser Therapy for Hair Loss, Laser Treatments, Non Surgical Treatments for Hair loss, PRP (PLATELET RICH PLASMA THERAPY)
Non surgical hair loss treatments
Get your hair growing!!
Too scared to under go surgery but you need to stop your hair loss? No worries, sometimes just the word surgery can be terrifying for some of us. That is why here at The Paragon Plastic Surgery and Med Spa and Dr. Mark A. Bishara give you options!
Laser Therapy
Sometimes we think laser? What are a couple lights going to do? Well let me tell you, you’d be quite surprised! Here at the Paragon Plastic Surgery and Med Spa we offer laser therapy for hair loss using the Capillus 272! The Capillus 272 is equipped with 272 laser diodes to help wake up those dormant hair follicles and give you a fuller look! The best thing about it is that all it takes is fast and easy 30 minutes and it is absolutely pain free! We offer the treatments in office or you can purchase one for in home use!
Growth Factors to get your hair growing!
We have heard many ways Platelet Rich Plasma has helped with. From injured joints, tendons and other musculoskeletal problems and now HAIR!! Did you know that our very own blood (PRP) contains growth factors? Yes! Here at The Paragon Plastic Surgery and Med Spa we perform multiple PRP treatments on a daily basis. It is and hour process, as we draw your blood, spin it on our centrifuge for about 15 minutes, The PRP will then be injected on to the areas that will need to be treated. Don’t worry we use local anesthetic to numb the area and make sure you are nice and comfortable and of course pain free.
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR NON-SURGICAL HAIR LOSS TREATMENTS, PLEASE CONTACT US (817) 473-2120 OR EMAIL	[email protected] TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT.
November 23, 2016 /by amais
https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png 0 0 amais https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png amais2016-11-23 22:21:442016-11-23 22:21:44Non surgical hair loss treatments
ARTAS, Beard Hair Transplantation, Eyebrow Restoration, Eyebrow Transplants, Facial Hair Transplantation, Follicular Unit Extraction, Follicular Unit Transplantation, Hair Loss, Hair Restoration, Hair Restoration Surgery, Hair Transplant, Hair Transplant Surgery, Hair Transplantation, Hair Transplants, Laser Therapy for Hair Loss, PRP (PLATELET RICH PLASMA THERAPY), Robot Follicular Unit Extraction, Robotic Hair Restoration, Robotic Hair Transplant, Women's Hair Loss
What causes hair loss
Losing hair can be quite terrifying! On a day to day many people can lose up to 100 hairs a day. One hundred is not as noticeable considering the size of each hair strand especially because hair is continuously growing. There are many causes as to how we lose hair. Most cases are due to genetic predispositions, hormonal changes and medications.
Im sure you have heard of male and female pattern baldness. These type of hair loss are bound to occur due genetic predispositions! Yes! Family heredity can have a lot to do with it. Not cool, but it happens.
Another source to hair loss is hormonal change! It is known that hair loss due to hormonal imbalances can cause you to lose hair. Pregnancy and child birth are some of the causes of hormonal imbalances as well as thyroid problems.
Medications! Most people may not know but there are some medications that can cause some hair loss. Medications used for depression, cancer, hypertension, and heart problems are some! Vitamin A is another cause to hair loss. Intaking too much Vitamin A puts your hair at risk! Even low levels of iron, thyroid, and low Vitamin D levels can cause hair loss.
Although these causes for hair loss sound scary, don’t let it be. Know that there are many solutions for hair loss and Dr. Mark A. Bishara at The Paragon Plastic Surgery and Med Spa has all of them for you!! Dr. Mark A. Bishara offers many treatments and procedure to help men and women with hair loss. Treatments such as Laser therapy, Platelet Rich Plasma and Hair Transplants to name a few. DO NOT wait for it to be to late. Come see Dr. Mark A. Bishara at The Paragon Plastic Surgery and Med Spa in Mansfield or Southlake!
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR HAIR LOSS SERVICES, PLEASE CONTACT US (817) 473-2120 OR EMAIL	[email protected] TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT.
November 23, 2016 /by amais
https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png 0 0 amais https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png amais2016-11-23 21:56:192016-11-23 21:56:19What causes hair loss
Hair Loss, Hair Restoration, Hair Restoration Surgery, Hair Transplant, Hair Transplant Surgery, Hair Transplantation, Hair Transplants, Laser Therapy for Hair Loss, Non Surgical Treatments for Hair loss, PRP (PLATELET RICH PLASMA THERAPY)
Non-Surgical hair loss treatments
As just the word “surgery” can be quite frightening, people forget that there are different types of treatments for hair loss. The Paragon Plastic Surgery and Med Spa has them for you!
Capillus Laser Cap
The capillus laser cap is the first FDA cleared laser cap that helps prevent hair loss. Although we know hair that has been lost will not regrow why not save what is left. The Capillus 272 helps men and women that suffer from androgenetic alopecia. It is designed with low level laser lights that have been proven to promote hair regrowth in both men in women according to capillus.com The cap is recommended to be used 30 minutes every other day. The Capillus laser caps are powered with a battery pack which makes it easier to use for people on the go. The caps can be used while running errands, at home cooking, or picking up the kids as it looks just like a regular ball cap.
Minoxidil
Minoxidil is a antihypertensive vasodilator medication used to slow down hair loss and in some cases help promote hair regrowth. Minoxidil is sold over the counter which makes it easier for people to access at their local store such as walmart, cvs, or walgreens. Minoxidil should be applied topically on the scalp. Both men and women suffering from androgenic alopecia can benefit from minoxidil. Minoxidil is the only topical product that is FDA approved to help with hair loss. The solution is formulated to include a 5% solution for men a 2% solution concentrated for women. Minoxidil must be used indefinitely for continued support and maintaining existing hair.
PRP (Platelet Rich Plasma) Treatment
Our blood plasma is known to contain active growth factors that promote hair growth. So how is a PRP done? Our own blood is drawn and placed in to a centrifuge where it spins for about 10 to 15 minutes so that only the enriched platelets remain. Once separated into a different syringe using a thin needle the PRP is injected in to the scalp and all areas that will be treated for hair loss. Local anesthetic is used to help with any discomfort. The treatment takes about an hr to and hr and a half and the results are safe and reliable.
Propcecia/Finasteride
Propecia/Finasteride is a one a day pill used to treat male pattern baldness and hair loss on the vertex and mid scalp. Propecia is made only for the use on men. Women should not use propecia as it can cause birth defects in a fetus. Six months into treatment is when men typically see improvement.
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR HAIR LOSS TREATMENTS, PLEASE CONTACT US (817) 473-2120 OR EMAIL [email protected] TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT.
August 9, 2016 /by amais
https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png 0 0 amais https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png amais2016-08-09 11:21:082016-08-09 11:21:08Non-Surgical hair loss treatments
ARTAS, Hair Loss, Hair Restoration, Hair Restoration Surgery, Hair Transplant, Hair Transplant Surgery, Hair Transplantation, Hair Transplants, Laser Therapy for Hair Loss, Non Surgical Treatments for Hair loss, PRP (PLATELET RICH PLASMA THERAPY), Robotic Hair Restoration, Robotic Hair Transplant
Hair Loss FAQ's
What causes hair loss?
There are many causes for hair loss. In most cases it can be heredity, hormonal changes, medical conditions and even medications. The most common is hereditary condition also known as male-pattern baldness or female-pattern baldness. Hereditary also takes affect in the age in which you begin to lose hair. This can be very disheartening.
What is DHT?
Dihydrotestosterone, or DHT is a natural but powerful metabolite of the human body and the main cause of hair loss in both men and women.
How does DHT cause hair loss?
DHT plays a huge roll in hair loss. What it does is it restricts the follicles the ability to produce hair growth.
Does stress cause hair loss?
In some cases stress can play a roll in hair loss. Generally stress induced loss regrows with in a year, however, some stress responses simple speed up the genetic predisposition to losing hair. Extreme emotional tension for prolonged periods of time can have an effect as well.
Is there a cure for hair loss?
There are many treatments to help with hair loss. Consulting with a hair loss specialist can help determine what treatment will benefit you. There are treatments such as:
-Propecia
-Laser Therapy
-Minoxidil
-Finasteride
-Hair restoration surgery
PRP injections
How can i know what treatment i should do?
Being that there are many treatments for hair loss the best way to go is consulting with a hair specialist like Dr. Mark A. Bishara. Depending on the type and amount of hair loss Dr. Mark A. Bishara will be able to recommend the best treatment. The best results of regrowth in hairless patients ALWAYS are using multiple different measures to combat hair loss. For example, patients willing to take finasteride (Propecia), use the Capillus Laser 272 30 minutes every other day for 6 months, undergo post procedural PRP injections and use Minoxidil compounded for best results.
Can home remedies cure baldness?
When hair loss is genetic home remedies or more likely to fail. To have effective results the best way to go is medication, laser therapy or hair transplantation. Delaying the treatment of hairless prevention can severely limit the options and decrees the lifetime presence of hair mass.
Does the use of helmets or hats contribute with hair loss?
The answer is NO! Wearing a hat or helmet has no effect whatsoever in the amount or type of hair loss in a person.
Can someone donate their hair to get transplanted?
Using another persons hair is not possible due to the way foreign tissue is rejected. If you have a monozygotic twin or genetically identical twin you can successfully transplant. If not, you would be required to take anti rejection drugs that haves risks that outweigh the benefits.
How long does a hair transplant last?
Transplanted hair is known to be permanent and last a life time, although in some cases a small perecantage of transplanted hair can be lost due to age. This concept is known as follicular senescence.
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR HAIR LOSS SERVICES, PLEASE CONTACT US (817) 473-2120 OR EMAIL	[email protected] TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT.
May 22, 2016 /by amais
https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png 0 0 amais https://markbisharamd.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/logo-2-300x150.png amais2016-05-22 13:12:112016-05-22 13:12:11Hair Loss FAQ's
Cosmetic Surgeon Dr. Mark A. Bishara, M.D., serving Fort Worth, Arlington, and the surrounding area.
Stay Connected
Dr. Mark A. Bishara
4.4
Valerie Vincent
21:15 24 Jan 19
Doctor’s bedside manner was great, but the staff from beginning to end, treated me like a number, eager to get me in and out so they can go about their stuff. Im new to all of these procedures, and this is a small business, so I was expecting more sincere genuine care from them. I also didn’t see any results, not even after several treatments. I did everything that was recommended. I’m so upset that I don’t even want to call and complain because I know it wouldn’t matter to a place like this. They never followed up with me to see how my results turned out. A business that cares and who want efficient work for their patients always make sure you’re happy. especially when thousands of dollars is wasted. I do not recommend them.read more
a k
16:27 02 Nov 18
Extremely unprofessional! Doctor has no bed side manner and works on people appearance judges them. But yet he is sloopy and doesn't take care of his own self. The staff always seems so unhappy. I would avoid the place at all cost.read more
A Google User
18:11 18 Oct 18
For hair restoration, this is the absolute last place you want to be. He is not an expert, he is only good at selling you that he is. He has good bedside manner but do not let that fool you (He fooled me. I thought I had found a great doctor but I was so wrong). He is extremely dishonest when reviewing results. He promises the world then only delivers 10% of what he promised. When you call him out on it, he blames you the patient for the poor results... it is so distasteful, it makes me sick to my stomach that I trusted him. I had multiple surgeries with this doctor, I was foolish to trust him but I did and still came away with terrible results. I want other people to avoid that experience which is why I am writing this review.People who are losing their hair are already in enough pain then you go to a doctor thinking you can trust them to help your situation but instead Dr. Bishara exploits you, compounding that pain. He may respond to this review refuting it or trying to explain away what happened to me, that is expected.Go see a doctor who specializes in hair restoration not someone who buys an expensive machine and does hair on the side to make more money. Find a good doctor and do not make an emotional decision like I did by going with the first doctor you visit because you just want to get more hair right away.You do not have to take my word for it but I hope it leads you to more research for your own hair restoration.(My name is not on the review because this is a private medical matter)read more
Yenai
17:41 26 Sep 18
Very disappointed of this place, if you want to do something to feel better and look good this is not the right place, go to a real doctor that care about his patients not only for the money, this doctor only made me lose my Money is sad people like him we call them doctors I am very disappointed how he treaded me and he dint do what I ask him to do even if a show him picture and still leave my bumps and bruises if u r planing get something done please do not go to this place u will regret when u see that u money went to the trash and he will never going to help u or fix something that he having doing wrong, and honestly I do not want you to feel like I do, I don’t want this happen to you, I hope before u got here think twice and no later be sad like I’m is so many places and I’m sure so many real Doctors that cares for their patients. I went to this place and ask nicely to fix what he did wrong he couldn’t help me or do anything about it. So please please think twice before u go to this place and see Doctor Mark A Bishara .read more
Catherine Knier
18:46 23 Apr 18
I met with Dr. Bishara for a consult for breast augmentation today. The whole experience was WONDERFUL and far exceeded my expectations!!! The office staff is friendly and everyone makes you feel so comfortable. Dr. Bishara is very professional and answered most of my questions before I even had a chance to ask them. I was very impressed with his bedside manner and the implementation of current technology.Thank you Dr. Bishara and staff for helping me feel completely assured that I am making a great decision. I am so excited to take the next step in being a better version of me!!!read more
See All Reviews
Mansfield, TX
1101 Matlock Rd
Mansfield, Texas 76063
Tel: (817) 473-2120
Fax: (817) 887-5233
Southlake, Texas
1203 South White Chapel Blvd,
Suite 150 Southlake, Texas 76092
Tel: (817) 473-2120
Fax: (817) 887-5233
© Paragon Plastic Surgery Center & Medspa. All Rights Reserved. All pictures on this website are of models or actors unless otherwise stated. Privacy Policy
APRIL SPECIALS
AVAILABLE AT BOTH LOCATIONS
Buy 2 Radiesse 1.5 Plus
Get 40 units of Xeomin Free
Buy 2 Juvederm Ultra Plus
Get 25 units of Botox Free
Ultherapy- Buy Lower FaceGet Upper Face Free
Complimentary Facelift/NeckliftConsultation($125 value)
Bring a friend and you both receive20% off (no other offers apply).
Above valid until April 30, 2019
WRINKLE-FREE WEDNESDAY
Botox $14/unit (reg.$16/unit)
**NOW OFFERED IN SOUTHLAKE & MANSFIELD**
more info
Wrinkle-Free Rush Hour Thursday (10am – 5pm)
BOTOX and XEOMIN $14/Unit
Offer Available At Our Southlake Location
more info
Scroll to top Book Now ►