Lack of Sleep Headache: Treatments and More
Newsletter
Headache from Lack of Sleep? Here’s What to Do
Medically reviewed by Shilpa Amin, MD, CAQ, FAAFP on November 26, 2018 — Written by Erica Cirino
Migraine vs. tension
Sleep and headaches
Sleep and pain
Ideal sleep time
Treatment
Home remedies
Sleeping tips
Takeaway
Sleep basics
Getting enough sleep is an important part of staying healthy. As you sleep, your body repairs itself so that your brain and body can function optimally when you’re awake. But did you know that getting a good night’s sleep can also help keep headaches at bay?
That’s what experts say. Various studies have linked a lack of sleep to two different types of headaches: migraine and tension headaches.
Migraine vs. tension
Migraine headaches can cause significant and sometimes disabling headache pain. Symptoms include:
pain usually on just one side of the head
pain that lasts hours to days
sensitivity to light and sound
nausea
vomiting
Tension headaches tend to cause mild to moderate pain across the top, sides, and back of the head, and aren’t usually worsened by light or sound.
Research suggests that other types of headaches, such as cluster, hemicrania continua, and hypnic headaches, can occur during sleep. But future studies are needed to understand if they are linked to a lack of sleep like migraine and tension headaches.
Sleep-headache link
In 2011, researchers from Missouri State University published a study suggesting that a lack of REM (rapid eye movement) sleep is linked to more painful headaches. REM sleep happens in 90- to 120-minute intervals throughout the night and gets its name from the rapid eye movements that occur during this phase of sleep.
This sleep stage is also characterized by:
increased dreaming
body movements
faster breathing
increased heart rate
Scientists believe REM sleep is necessary for storing memories, learning, and regulating mood.
The researchers of that 2011 study found that a lack of sleep increases the creation of proteins in the body that cause chronic pain. It appears that these proteins reduce the body’s threshold for experiencing pain and can spark intense migraine headaches.
A closely links a lack of sleep to tension headaches.
Sleep-pain link
There’s growing evidence that a lack of sleep can reduce the body’s pain threshold.
A found that people with insomnia and other sleeping issues appear to be more sensitive to pain than those who don’t experience these issues.
Researchers asked people to place one hand in cold water and keep it there for 106 seconds. Those with insomnia were more likely to remove their hand from the cold water than those without insomnia. People with both insomnia and chronic pain seemed most sensitive to the cold water, because they had the lowest pain threshold.
How much should you sleep?
Insomnia can make it difficult to fall asleep or can cause you to wake up early and not be able to fall back asleep. Anything less than seven hours of sleep is considered short for most healthy adults, who need seven to nine hours of sleep each night for good health.
Here’s how much sleep a person needs at each age:
Age Hours of sleep needed
newborn to 3 months 14 to 17
4 to 11 months 12 to 15
1 to 2 years 11 to 14
3 to 5 years 10 to 13
6 to 13 years 9 to 11
14 to 17 years 8 to 10
18 to 64 years 7 to 9
65 or more years 7 to 8
Other conditions that may cause lack of sleep include:
snoring
stress
anxiety
depression
sleep apnea
tooth grinding
jet lag
using the wrong pillow
Just as there is evidence that a lack of sleep can contribute to headaches, too much sleep can also cause headaches.
Treatment for headaches
If you do get a tension or migraine headache from a lack of sleep, seeking treatment right away can help reduce its duration and severity.
Tension headache treatment
Both over-the-counter (OTC) and prescription medications can reduce discomfort when a tension headache strikes. These include:
pain relievers such as aspirin (Bufferin), ibuprofen (Advil), and naproxen (Aleve), among others
combination medications that contain a pain reliever and a sedative, which are often marked with “PM” or “nighttime” on the packaging
triptans, which are prescription drugs used to treat migraines
To prevent recurring tension headaches, your doctor might prescribe the following:
tricyclic antidepressants like amitriptyline (Elavil) and protriptyline (Vivactil)
other antidepressants such as venlafaxine and mirtazapine (Remeron, Remeron Soltab)
anticonvulsants like topiramate (Topamax) and muscle relaxants
Migraine headache treatment
Migraine headaches tend to be more severe than tension headaches, so treatment is a little more aggressive. If you have a migraine, the following prescription and OTC medications may alleviate your symptoms:
Pain relievers such as aspirin (Bufferin), acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil), and naproxen (Aleve) may ease mild migraine pain. Medications that are specifically designed for migraines combine caffeine with aspirin, such as Excedrin Migraine, and may be helpful for moderate migraines.
Indomethacin can relieve migraine pain and is available as a suppository, which can be helpful if you’re too nauseous to take oral medication.
Triptans can help block pain pathways in the brain. They do this by binding to serotonin receptors, decreasing blood vessel swelling. This type of medication is available as a prescription pill, nasal spray, and injection. Treximet, a single-tablet dose of triptan and naproxen, is very effective at reducing migraine symptoms in most people.
Ergots are a type of medication containing the drug ergotamine and are often combined with caffeine. This combination eases pain by constricting blood vessels. They are effective at reducing migraine pain lasting for more than 48 hours and are most effective when taken right after symptoms begin. Dihydroergotamine (Migranal) is a type of ergot medication that tends to have fewer side effects than ergotamine.
Anti-nausea medications such as chlorpromazine (Thorazine), metoclopramide (Reglan), and prochlorperazine (Compazine) can help.
Opioid medications, including those that contain narcotics like codeine, are often used to treat migraine pain in people who can’t take triptans or ergots. These medications tend to be habit-forming and aren’t recommended for long-term use.
Glucocorticoids such as prednisone and dexamethasone can provide some pain relief.
The following medications may prevent headaches in people who have migraines that last 12 or more hours four or more times a month:
Beta-blockers, which decrease the effects of stress hormones in the body, can prevent migraines.
Calcium channel blockers, often used to treat high blood pressure, may prevent migraines that cause vision problems.
Another medication often prescribed for high blood pressure, lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril) may reduce the length and intensity of migraine headaches.
The tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline can prevent migraines, and another depression medication called venlafaxine may also reduce migraine frequency.
Anti-seizure drugs may reduce migraine frequency.
Injections of Botox into areas of the forehead and neck may help treat chronic migraines in adults. These injections may need to be repeated in three months.
Erenumab-aooe (Aimovig) blocks the activity of a specific type of molecule involved in causing migraines. This medication can be injected once a month to help reduce migraines.
Home remedies
Here are a few things you can do to manage your tension headaches at home:
Reduce your stress levels through exercise, relaxation techniques, or therapy.
Apply a hot or cold compress to your head for 5 to 10 minutes at a time. This can help ease pain.
Try acupuncture or massage.
The following may also help alleviate migraine symptoms at home:
relaxation techniques
rest in a dark, quiet room when you feel a headache coming
application of a cool compress to the back of your neck and gentle massage of the painful areas on your forehead
acupuncture
cognitive behavioral therapy
supplements, including vitamin B-2, coenzyme Q10, and magnesium
Good sleep hygiene
One of the easiest ways to prevent headaches is to maintain a healthy sleep schedule. Here are 10 tips to maintain good sleep hygiene:
Regular exercise can help you get a good night’s sleep. But exercising too close to bedtime can keep you up at night. Try to exercise at least three hours before bed.
Eat lightly at night. This can help you avoid indigestion or an unexpected energy rush that will keep you up.
Sleep on a schedule. Going to bed and waking up at the same times every day can help your body get enough sleep and wake up feeling more rested.
Make sure you get enough light during the day. A lack of light can make you feel more tired and can interrupt your wake-sleep cycle.
Avoid stimulating substances like alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine four to six hours before bedtime. These can keep you awake at night and ruin your sleep.
Make your bedroom optimal for sleeping by keeping it dark, cool (but not cold), quiet, and comfortable.
Remove anything from your bedroom that might interrupt your sleep or make you stressed before bed. This includes electronics like TVs, work materials, and computers. Keep your bedroom activities limited to sleep and sex.
Create a bedtime routine. Getting into a good pre-sleep routine can help relax you for a good night’s sleep. Avoid any electronic screens a few hours before bed. Instead, read a book, meditate, or take a bath.
Go to sleep when you’re tired instead of forcing yourself to sleep. It’s worth waiting an extra 30 minutes or an hour to hit the bed if you’re not yet tired at your usual bedtime. Going to bed and not falling asleep can lead to stress and frustration.
10. Don’t drink too much before bed. Try to taper off your fluid intake so you’re not disturbed by the urge to visit the bathroom during the middle of the night.
Takeaway
Scientists have found a clear link between a lack of sleep and migraine and tension headaches. It appears that a lack of sleep reduces the body’s pain threshold, making it more prone to headaches.
However, different medications, home treatments, and good sleep hygiene can help prevent and treat these headaches. Talk to your doctor to see which treatments might be most effective for you.
Medically reviewed by Shilpa Amin, MD, CAQ, FAAFP on November 26, 2018 — Written by Erica Cirino
related stories
What Causes Early Morning Headaches?
Why You Have a ‘Foggy Brain’ If You Don’t Get Enough Sleep
Migraine Triggers
What Causes Headaches on the Right Side?
What’s Causing My Headache and Loss of Appetite?
READ THIS NEXT
What Causes Early Morning Headaches?
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Find out what's causing your early morning headaches.
READ MORE
Why You Have a ‘Foggy Brain’ If You Don’t Get Enough Sleep
When it comes to mental sharpness, it's all about your brain's neurons. Read these tips on how to counteract "brain fog" and be more alert and…
READ MORE
Migraine Triggers
Medically reviewed by Seunggu Han, MD
Stressed? Sensitive to odd smells and bright lights? Learn about these and 14 other common migraine triggers. Discover the ways that painkillers used…
READ MORE
What Causes Headaches on the Right Side?
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Learn what's causing headaches on the right side of your head. The cause depends on the type of headache and other symptoms you may have.
READ MORE
What’s Causing My Headache and Loss of Appetite?
Medically reviewed by Graham Rogers, MD
Learn about the possible causes of headache and loss of appetite.
READ MORE
The Best Headache and Migraine Blogs of 2019
Dealing with migraine or chronic headaches is never easy, and there are rarely simple solutions. We've collected the best blogs to help you keep up on…
READ MORE
The Best Headache and Migraine Blogs of 2019
Dealing with migraine or chronic headaches is never easy, and there are rarely simple solutions. We've collected the best blogs to help you keep up on…
READ MORE
Managing COPD Headaches
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD, MPH
Headaches from COPD stem from a lack of oxygen, combined with an excess of carbon dioxide. Find out how to identify and manage these headaches.
READ MORE
What’s Causing My Headache and Nausea?
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
A headache is pain or discomfort that occurs in or around your head, including your scalp, sinuses, or neck. Nausea is a type of discomfort in your…
READ MORE
Headache Behind the Eyes
Medically reviewed by J. Keith Fisher, MD
Headaches of any type are common, including headaches behind eyes. We'll explain the different types of headaches that cause pain behind the eyes, why…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 156468 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582