Home | Kirkland Minoxidil
Home
Products
Brands
Kirkland Signature
Lipogaine
Rogaine
Type
Minoxidil
Shampoo
Gender
Treatments for Men
Treatments for Women
Downloads
FAQs
Delivery & Returns
Contact Us
£0.00
Hair Loss Solutions
Shop Now
Discreet Packaging
Fast & Free
Genuine Products
Featured Products
Kirkland 5% Minoxidil Solution
£8.95 – £54.95 Select options
Brands
Kirkland Signature
Rogaine
Lipogaine
Categories
Minoxidil
Shampoo
Product Type
For Men
For Women
Treatments
Further Information
Hair Loss Treatments
Hair loss is a common issue and up to 40% of men notice hair loss by the time they’re 35. As time passes this becomes even more common with 65% of men seeing hair loss by 60, rising to 80% by the time men hit 80.
There are ways to prevent hair loss and in some cases even new hair growth using the products we sell here at KirklandMinoxidil.net
We supply premium hair loss treatments from quality brands such as Kirkland Signature, Lipogaine and Rogaine.
About Minoxidil
Minoxidil is a proven solution to male pattern baldness, the condition responsible for most hair loss in men. This genetic issue is believed to affect as many as a third of all males. It is also the active ingredient in products capable of transforming the lives of women suffering from similar problems. Around 85 per cent of men find that their hair is significantly thinning by the time they reach 50 and many women are distressed to discover that their hair is falling out and is failing to re-grow as it once did.
The Scientific Explanation
One scientific explanation suggests that it is Minoxidil’s ability to cause dilation in the blood vessels that surround hair follicles that gives it its power. This is said to increase the supply of nutrients to the follicle, prompting more hair growth.
The other widely-held view is that Minoxidil applied topically boosts DNA synthesis within the cells of the hair follicles by prompting the body to produce sulfonyl transfers, a catalyst that leads to the creation of Minoxidil Sulphite. This activates channels of potassium in the cells, leading to the re-growth of hair.
For the majority of users, the reasons why Minoxidil works are of no real concern; the only thing they want to know is; ‘is it effective?’ and the answer is ‘yes’ in many, many cases.
This is a major breakthrough in the treatment of male pattern baldness, which is the cause of all but around ten per cent cases of significant hair loss in men. Minoxidil is an antihypertensive vasodilator but was originally formulated towards the end of the 1950s as a medication to treat ulcers. It did not fulfil its initial aim but was later found to be an effective vasodilator and in 1963 it was given the name of Minoxidil. It was approved to treat people with high blood pressure back in 1979.
It was in 1988, however, that it became an officially approved treatment for baldness and, later, was approved for over-the-counter sales, making it easier than ever for both men and women to seek a solution to what can be an extremely distressing problem, affecting not only a person’s appearance but their self-confidence as well.
How many men experience hair loss?
Up to half of all men by the age of 50 experience hereditary hair loss.
Male pattern baldness affects 50% of men. It can start in your teens, 20s or 30s.
What causes Hair Loss?
Hair loss can be caused by a variety of different factors from stress to poor nutrition. Although the precise cause of hair loss is not currently understood it is usually associated with factors such as family history, medical conditions, medication and changing hormones. In 95% of cases the cause will be Androgenetic Alopecia (AGA) also known as hereditary hair loss or male pattern baldness. Age, hereditary factors and hormone activity combine resulting in the shortening of the hair growth cycle and steady inactivation of the hair follicles. In time, this produces finer hair, shorter, less visible hairs and the follicles eventually become incapable of producing visible hair.
What Is Abnormal Hair Loss?
Abnormal hair loss is when the rate of shedding exceeds that of a healthy head of hair. On average adults have around 100,000 strands of individual hairs on their head. An adult who is not experiencing hair loss will typically shed 40 to 120 strands per day. If there is a noticeable increase in the number of hairs collected on your comb or pillow then this could be a sign of abnormal hair loss. It is important to take note of the number of strands lost per day or whether there is any observable changes in appearance, such as thinning on the scalp or receding hairline.
What is DHT?
DHT stands for dihydrotestosterone. It is a naturally occurring metabolite of the human body and the primary cause of hereditary hair loss in both men and women. Rather than causing hair to fall out, DHT restricts and slows down growth ultimately leading to hair loss.
Studies show that DHT is an essential hormone for the development of male characteristics in adolescence but it is also responsible for hair loss and other conditions later in life. So while it contributes to the development of a deep voice and facial hair during puberty, it can later have detrimental effects on health. DHT disrupts the natural flow of vitamins, minerals and proteins to hair follicles, preventing them from the nourishment they need to maintain normal hair growth. This ultimately leads to permanent follicle shrinkage and a slowing down of the growth cycle.
Everybody produces DHT however not everyone is affected by it. Men with a genetic predisposition for hair loss should seek treatment if they want to reverse shedding and safeguard themselves from the negative effects of DHT.
Left untreated DHT will continue to prevent growth and each cycle will produce thinner, finer and less visible hair.
How long does it take before Minoxidil starts to work?
This will vary. Clinical studies have shown that regrowth can occur as early as 8 weeks but it can take up to 16 weeks to see results. Just bear in mind, results will vary from person to person, so you just need to be patient.
When you first start using, you may notice a temporary increase in hair loss in the first 2–6 weeks. This is entirely normal and is actually good news – it shows that your hair is shifting from a dormant phase to an active growing phase.
Will MINOXIDIL work for everybody?
No, there are several factors that may influence the effects including:
The predominance of hereditary hair loss in your family
The length of time you have been losing your hair
The specific type of hair loss condition you have
The area of hair loss on your scalp
However, MINOXIDIL 5% is proven to stabilise hair loss in 4 out of 5 men.
Questions? Read our FAQs.
Secure Payments
Delivery & Returns
Privacy Policy
FAQs
Downloads
Contact Us
My account
© 2017 Kirkland Minoxidil. Built by Abigail.
My Account
Search
Search for:
0