Aromatherapy Therapeutic Essential Oils Techniques Boulder CO Massage Therapist
Home
Welcome!
What to Expect
Rates and Location
Contact Me
Gift Certificates
Clothed Massage
Benefits of Massage!
What's New
Massage Therapy Styles Offered
Which Style's for Me?
Thai Massage
Deep Tissue Massage
Couples Massage
Hot Stone Massage
Sports Massage
House Calls
M. R. T.
Deaf-Friendly Services
ASL Interpreters
Discounts, Etc
About Me
Prepay
For Your Health
Stress!
Stretching
Arthritis and Massage
Massage & Emotions
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Aromatherapy and Therapeutic Essential Oils In Massage Therapy Environment
How Over 300 Aromatherapy Essential Oils Can Successfully Treat You Better
There is an ancient Egyptian stone dated 600 B.C. that shows several women collecting flowers to make medicine and perfume. Over six thousand years ago Greeks and Egyptians used plant extracts for bathing and embalming. Hippocrates believed in the value of aromatherapy, the ancient art of using essential oils extracted from plants in various ways to stimulate healing processes, and used essential oils as the first physician.
The actual term 'aromatherapy' was created by Rene Maurice Gattefosse in the 1920’s. He was a French chemist who accidentally discovered the healing properties of essential oils when he burned his arm.
Madame Maury is credited with first combining massage and aromatherapy in a holistic application. Since that time, aromatherapy has been used extensively in a variety of ways.
Aromatherapy - the Flowers of Life
Essential oils are botanicals; they are extracted from flowers, plants, even trees most commonly through steam distillation or cold-pressing processes. We find the use of essential oils in our everyday life, from enhancing food and drink, cosmetics, and as the active ingredients in some medicines.
Aromatherapy is the use of pure essential oils to relieve emotional and physical conditions that interfere with a productive life. The oils are used in many ways including candles, foot baths, lotions and diffusers, and are effectively utilized in combination with therapeutic massage.
In Aromatherapy, pure essential oils are blended with a base massage oil, (almond, jojoba, etc...) enhancing the therapeutic effects of massage movements by working on psychological and physiological levels.
Fusing massage techniques with essential oils helps muscles relax while improving blood circulation. Also, the aromatic qualities of essential oils affect our emotional state, relieving stress and anxiety, while potentially providing an energizing and uplifting sensation.
Aromatherapy and Massage
Effleurage, petrissage and tapotement are the formal names for the different massage strokes used to improve health. Massage is hands-on treatment, and the benefits of massage therapy are increased through the use of aromatherapy because essential oils are thought to stimulate the body’s own natural healing mechanisms.
Essential oils are carefully chosen depending on the purposes of the massage. Most massages are used to relieve stress, decrease anxiety, and relax tense muscles. Additionally, aromatherapy massage is beneficial for arthritic symptoms, injury recovery, and improving sleep patterns.
There are over 300 essential oils to choose from, with some examples provided below:
Chamomile helps relieve arthritis pain, reduces inflammation, and calms nervous conditions.
Lavender promotes healing and prevents scarring, also stimulating the immune system and contributing to the healing process by stimulating the cells of a wound to regenerate more quickly.
Rosemary and Clove are excellent in the treatment of all muscular conditions.
Eucalyptus is also anti-inflammatory and has been proven to have antiviral properties as well. Very effective in the treatment of coughs and cold symptoms.
Peppermint is wonderful for working with the digestive system
These are just a few of the more common oils available. There is a complete list of essential oils and their benefits that are easily accessible online.
Aromatherapy is a healthy alternative to many chemical pharmaceutical drugs. In combination with massage therapy, the essential oils provide a relaxing and mood uplifting experience. Don’t live with stress and its debilitating effects. Enjoy aromatherapy massage and enter the realm of holistic bliss.
Make an appointment for Aromatherapy Massage in Boulder or Denver Colorado
More about Aromatherapy!
Learn more benefits of massage
Return from Aromatherapy and Massage back to Boulder Colorado Body Massage Therapy statepage
DeservingBodyMassage.com. John Rasch, CMT. Deserving Body Massage. © Copyright 2006-2013. All rights reserved.