Croup | Dearborn Pediatrics
Dearborn Pediatrics
Text Size:+-
Call us at 313-730-0070
2845 Monroe Dearborn, MI 48124
Home
About
Our Providers
Our Staff
Insurance & Fees
HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices
Services
Expecting Parents
Wellness Visits
Sick Visits
Immunizations
Catch Up Immunization Schedule
Adolescents
Patient Registration
Immunizations
Dosing
Resources
Forms
Dosing Information
Car Seat Recommendations
Starting On Solid Foods
Sleep Guidelines
Peanut Allergy Information
Illness & Injury Care
Asthma
Croup
Ear Infections
Head Injuries
Stomach Infections
Strep Throat
Viral Infections
Visit Checklists
Birth To Two Months
The Two Month Old
The Four Month Old
The Nine Month Old
The Twelve Month Visit
Family Wellness
Healthy Families
Tween Talk
Contact
You are here: Home / Parent Resources / Croup
Croup
What is croup?
Croup is a common viral illness in children that usually occurs between the ages of 6 months and 3 years. It is characterized by a barky, seal-like cough that is usually worse at nighttime. It is caused by inflammation of the airway below the vocal cords. It can also cause a hoarse voice and/or noisy breathing. It may sound like your child is sucking in air loudly (stridor) and may even seem like they are having difficulty getting air in. Croup often comes on suddenly in the middle or the night and can be quite frightening. Fever often accompanies croup.
What is the treatment?
Cold air can provide dramatic relief. Take your child outdoors, appropriately dressed, and allow child to breathe cold air for 5-10 minutes. After coming in from outside, take the child into the bathroom, turn on the hot shower and let the bathroom fill up with steam. Sit on the floor with your child and let them breathe in the hot steam for about 10-15 minutes. If the child continues to show significant respiratory distress (breathing fast- greater than 45 times a minutes) child needs to be seen in Emergency Room. Running a humidifier in your child’s room will also provide some symptomatic relief. Sometimes steroids are required to alleviate the inflammation of the airway.
Do antibiotics help?
No. As with all viral infections, antibiotics will not help to treat croup. Tylenol or Motrin may be given if needed for fever.
How long does it last?
Croup is usually the worst the first three nights. The total duration is 4-5 days but the first three nights are typically the worse. The fever should resolve within 72 hours.
Schedule an Appointment
Follow Us on Facebook
Call with Your Questions
Office Hours
Monday and Tuesday:
9:00 am - 8:00 pm
Wednesday:
9:00 am - 4:30 pm
Thursday and Friday:
9:00 am - 5:00 pm
Saturday:
Open August - April
Recommendations
Car Seat Recommendations
Starting On Solid Foods
Sleep Guidelines
Illness & Injury Care
Asthma
Croup
Ear Infections
Head Injuries
Stomach Infections
Strep Throat
Viral Infections
Well Visit Checklists
Forms
Birth To Two Months
The Two Month Old
The Four Month Old
The Sixth Month
The Nine Month Old
The Twelve Month Visit
Helpful Websites
AAP Immunization Guidelines
American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP)
American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry
Breastfeeding Benefits
Breastfeeding & Nursing Your Baby
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. (CDC)
City Kids Nutrition
Consumer’s Product Safety Commission
Contemporary Pediatrics
Food, Inc – TakePart
Healthy Children
National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies.
Nutrition Care
Poison Control Center
Safe Kids USA
Dearborn Pediatrics, All Rights Reserved 2018
Nancy is a WordPress Theme Built on Genesis