How to Get Rid of Dark Scarring | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Scars
How to Get Rid of Dark Scarring
Dana Severson
About the Author:
Dana Severson
Based in Minneapolis, Minn., Dana Severson has been writing marketing materials for small-to-mid-sized businesses since 2005. Prior to this, Severson worked as a manager of business development for a marketing company, developing targeted marketing campaigns for Big G, Betty Crocker and Pillsbury, among others.
View Full Profile
Any type of injury you sustain to the skin can result in scarring. Cuts, burns, incisions and acne lesions are all known to stimulate the production of scar tissue, especially when the wound penetrates into the deeper layers of your skin. During the process of healing, your body produces collagen and other connective tissue to essentially seal the injury site. Sometimes, the scar tissue that forms is much darker than the surrounding skin. And while there's usually no medical reason to fix scarring, some people find these dark scars unsightly and want to improve the cosmetic appearance of their skin.
Scar on skin. (Image: mansum008/iStock/Getty Images)
Step 1
Massage a silicone-based cream or gel into the injury site each day to help flatten and lighten scar tissue, suggests the American Academy of Dermatology. It can take roughly six months to see an improvement in the appearance of your skin.
Step 2
Apply topical retinoids twice a day to the scar tissue. Normally used to treat acne, this prescription medication can help flatten raised scars and break up any melanin that is causing discoloration, which can lighten the irregular tissue to match the surrounding skin better.
Step 3
Cover the scar tissue with a topical corticosteroid to decrease inflammation and minimize any redness. Topical corticosteroids are often used in combination with retinoids and even silicone-based creams to improve the efficacy of the medications.
Step 4
Talk to your doctor about intralesional corticosteroid injections, suggests the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Injecting steroidal medications directly into the raised, red scars can help flatten and lighten the irregular tissue with the rest of your skin.
Step 5
Freeze the raised, red scar tissue with liquid nitrogen, dry ice or another freezing agent, advises the American Osteopathic College of Dermatology. This causes the irregular tissue to die and fall off.
Step 6
Undergo laser therapy to diminish discoloration and flatten the scar tissue with the rest of your skin. The laser energy breaks down the scar tissue, while destroying the melanin that's causing the hyperpigmentation.
Step 7
Remove the scar tissue with a surgical scar revision procedure. A cosmetic surgeon extracts the scar tissue from the skin, suturing the surgical wound in such a way to make the new scar less noticeable than before.
Tip
Corticosteroid injections are often used after cryotherapy, laser therapy and surgical scar revision to curtail the formation of dark, raised scar tissue again.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
American Academy of Dermatology: Raised Acne Scars--Treatment Can Ease Pain, Diminish Scars
American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery: Types of Scars and How to Minimize Their Visibility
American Society of Plastic Surgeons: Scar Revision
National Institutes of Health: Scars
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Remove Surgical Scars
2
Natural Herbs to Heal Scars
3
How to Remove Dark Spots From Razor Bumps & Ingrown Hairs
4
How to Heal Sore & Bruised Muscles
5
How to Get Rid of Brown Burn Scars
6
How to Stop a Keloid From Itching
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.