Depression
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Cookies policy | Easy Read | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] Reset
Championing optimum nutrition for the mind
Call us on 020 8332 9600
My account | Basket (0 Items)
Home
Nutrition solutions
Clinic
Smart kids
Alzheimer's prevention
Accreditation
Publications
Support us
Nutrition solutions > Depression > About depression
Nutrition solutions
ADHD and hyperactivity
About ADHD/hyperactivity
Action plan to overcome ADHD/hyperactivity
Do you need help?
Hyper activity test
Autism
About autism
Action plan for managing autism
Do you need help?
Bipolar disorder
About bipolar disorder (manic depression)
Action plan for bipolar disorder
Do you need help?
Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease
About dementia/Alzheimer’s disease
Action plan for dementia & Alzheimer’s
Do you need help?
Cognitive Function Test
Support Our Campaign
Depression
About depression
Action plan for overcoming depression
Do you need help?
Depression Test
Food Intolerance Test
Dyslexia and dyspraxia
About dyslexia/dyspraxia
Action plan for managing dyslexia/dyspraxia
Do you need help?
Insomnia
About insomnia
Action plan for insomnia
Do you need help?
Parkinson's disease
About Parkinson's disease
Action plan for Parkinson's disease
Do you need help?
Schizophrenia and psychosis
About schizophrenia and psychosis
Action plan for managing schizophrenia
Do you need help?
Stress
About stress
Action plan for becoming more resilient to stress
Do you need help?
Brain Bio Centre
The Clinic
About the clinic
Clinic costs
The Complete Packages
Get in touch
Contact us
Book a consultation
Book a Skype consultation
Patient Information Forms
Consultations
Skype Consultations
Tests
Supplements
Meet the team
The Clinical Team
The Board
Our Experts
Scientific Advisory Board
How to find us
FAQs
Stress
Cognitive decline and neurological disorders
Depression and anxiety
Learning and behaviour
Psychotic disorders
Tune up your brain
Testimonials
In the media
Auction
AuctionProduct3
AuctionProduct7
AuctionProduct10
AuctionProduct11
AuctionProduct14
AuctionProduct17
AuctionProduct18
AuctionProduct21
AuctionProduct22
AuctionProduct23
AuctionProduct24
AuctionProduct25
AuctionProduct26
AuctionProduct27
AuctionProduct28
AuctionProduct29
AuctionProduct33
Alzheimer's prevention
About Alzheimer’s Prevention
Action on Alzheimer's
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Take the test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the test
Interpreting results
Lowering homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
Previous scores
6 Prevention Steps
Make a donation
Modifying Risk Factors
Homocysteine and B Vitamins
Methylation and homocysteine
Play Your Part
For business
Events
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Declarations of interest
Cognitive Function Test
Smart Kids
Is your childs diet healthy?
Child Survey
Child Survey on GMTV
Q and A on the child survey
How to build a healthy brain?
Where are the hidden sugars?
Smart shopping
Healthy recipes and ideas
Smart weaning
Supplements for smart kids
Children's food allergies
Schools Project
SAQ Training System
Cricket Green
Chineham Park
What children say
What the experts say
Research
Alzheimer's Prevention Project
Cognitive Function Test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the Test
Interpreting Results
Lowering Homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
10 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps
Declarations of interest
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Alzheimer’s Prevention Conference
Methylation and Homocysteine
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Information for Health Professionals
Alzheimer's - there is no cure. Prevention is the way.
Schizophrenia project
Evidence database
A review of the current evidence (2005) suggests that essential fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA may benefit a variety of mental health conditions.
ADHD teens have higher need for Omega-3 fats. Colter A L et al., Nutr J. 2008 Feb 14;7:8.
An omega-3 fish oil combined with phosphatidylserine improved impulsiveness in ADHD kids...
Essential fat levels lower in boys with ADHD compared to 'healthy' controls...
Essential fats reduce ADHD-related symptoms in children with specific learning difficulties...
Feeding the autistic brain - Multi-nutrients reduce symptoms and improve biological function...
Foods and additives are common causes of the attention deficit hyperactive disorder in children...
Gut disorders are more prevalent in children with developmental disorders...
Keep it simple - Healthy diet best for ADHD...
Magnesium supplementation improved ADHD symptoms...
Physical symptoms of fatty acid deficiency unreliable in ADHD...
Restricted diet linked to 78% reduction in ADHD...
Supplementation of fatty acids improved ADHD symptoms in children aged 7 to 12 years...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves juvenile delinquency among American schoolchildren...
A very low carbohydrate diet improves memory function for older adults at risk of Alzheimer's disease...
Dementia costs the UK £23 billion a year and is preventable...
Efficacy of a medical food in mild Alzheimer's disease...
Lower reported nutritional status is associated with increased risk to physical and mental health and well-being in School-aged Children...
Nutrients, cognitive function, and MRI measures of brain ageing.
Omega 3 helps ageing brain
Supplements of omega-3 and omega-6 improve reading, spelling and behaviour in children ages 5-12 years with Developmental Coordination Disorder.
Allergy to milk proteins could be linked to autism...
Consumption of fish and n-3 fatty acids and risk of incident Alzheimer disease...
DHA may slow progression of Alzheimer’s in a mouse model...
Dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids and weekly consumption of fish may reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Dietary intake of vitamin E associated with lower risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Fish oils stave off alzheimers...
Fruit and vegetable juice may protect against Alzheimer's...
Genetic link between vitamin D and Alzheimer's discovered...
Good diet staves off dementia and alzheimers...
Higher folate intake associated with lower risk of Alzheimer Disease in the elderly...
Homocysteine and dementia – a clear association...
Homocysteine effects on brain volumes mapped in 732 elderly individuals...
Medication prescribed to Alzheimer's patients may hasten their decline...
Mineral imbalances in Alzheimer's brains...
Sugar may speed up alzheimers...
Supplements of Vitamin E and Vitamin C reduce risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Targeting risk factors could cut Alzheimer’s by a quarter...
Vitamin E antioxidants to slow the progression of Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E slows progression of moderately severe Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E supplementation may lower mortality in Alzheimer's patients...
Elevated homocysteine found in women with eating disorders, independent of folic acid or B12 levels...
Supplementation with folic acid enhances effect of antidepressant medication...
Reduced risk of depression associated with mediterranean diet...
An autistic patient has abnormal red blood cell fatty acid composition compared to control subjects...
Autistic children benefit from a gluten and casein free diet...
Autistic children frequently suffer from digestive complaints and inflammation in the digestive system...
Autistic children show possible imbalance of fatty acids...
Behaviour deterioration seen in autistic children upon vitamin B6 withdrawal...
Damage to gut wall maybe a cause of autism...
Effect of gluten and casein free diets on food choice and nutrition in autism...
Food hypersensitivity linked to digestive disturbances in autistic children...
Gluten-free diet can improve behavioural symptoms of autistic children...
Immune reaction to both gliadin and brain proteins may explain an autoimmune basis for autism...
More than 1 in 100 children and adults have autism...
Opioid theory may explain food and gut-related symptoms of autism...
Opioid theory may explain role of diet and digestion in autism...
PCBs may contribute to Autism – rat study...
Review investigates links between immune system activity and autism...
Review of 12 studies suggest positive effect of vitamin therapy in autism...
Review of trials of gluten/casein elimination diets in children with autism...
Studies show a gluten and/or casein free diet reduces autistic behaviour...
Study finds no significant improvement in autistic children’s clinical symptoms whilst on a gluten-free and casein-free diet...
Vitamin A may help reverse a genetic predisposition to autism...
Vitamin B6 and magnesium improve childhood autism in combination...
Lowering homocysteine improved symptoms in chronic schizophrenia patients with elevated homocysteine...
Supplementation with essential nutrients may benefit symptoms of depression in elderly patients...
Elevated homocysteine associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly...
High folate intake alongside low B-12 status may worsen risk for dementia...
Vitamin B12 deficiency may affect the brain through multiple mechanisms...
Association with vitamin D levels and depressive symptoms.
Could early vitamin C deficiency impair development?
Downside of acid drug...
Lack of B vitamins linked to PMS...
Lower blood levels of vitamin C in people with schizophrenia...
U.S. Study confirms homocysteine linked to brain shrinkage...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves intelligence in some American schoolchildren...
Vitamin D deficiency in pregnancy may have implications for mental health of children – rat study...
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood and worse cognitive performance in older adults...
Vitamin D deficiency linked to Parkinson's...
Vitamin D linked with depression in elderly...
Vitamins and minerals improve learning and memory in 'normal' school children...
Diet has positive impact on anti-social, violent and criminal behaviour – a review...
Folic acid may boost baby's behaviour...
Iron, zinc, and lead are associated with behaviour and cognition in preschool children...
Sweets for kida means violent adults. Moore et al. (2009) 195: 366-367
Omega 3 fish oil good for depression and bipolar...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA improves depression in people with bipolar alongside their existing medication...
Beta carotene helps brain function and memory...
Breast feeding is best food for your child's brain...
Depressed brain deficient in Omega-3 fatty acid DHA...
Dietary choline, cognitive performance and brain volume...
Fish consumption associated with better brain volume and memory...
Fish oil supplementation supports mood and brain function in the elderly...
Homocysteine associated with brain atrophy in the healthy elderly...
Omega 3 good for cognitive performance in older adults...
Omega-3 in pregnancy boosts baby's brain development...
Use it or lose it - Cognitive activity throughout life supports a healthy brain...
Fish-eating mothers’ milk highest in DHA...
Chromium improves atypical depression...
Update on chromium for depression.
Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study, Nurk E et al...
Elderly people with the highest blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids had the least decline in verbal fluency...
Excess calcium speeds cognitive decline in the elderly...
Folic acid improves concentration and cognitive performance in healthy elderly...
Folic acid improves memory and mental agility in over-50s. ...
Higher intakes of fish oil from diet associated with slower rates of cognitive decline in elderly men...
Does raised homocysteine cause dementia?
Acne treatment could cause depression...
Beneficial gut bacteria reduce anxiety and depression in mice...
Breakfast, Academic Performance and Mental Distress...
Depression linked to processed food...
Fish oil boosts mood in depressed seniors...
Folic acid improves recovery in major depression and schizophrenia...
Low Iron may contribute to depression in women who are not anaemic...
More folate may mean less depression in men. Daniells 2010
Multivitamin and mineral supplement improves mood in hospitalised elderly...
Omega-3 helps depressed children, A Controlled, Double-Blind Pilot Study...
Review of research suggests folate may be effective for depression...
Sleep deprivation may cause depression in adolescents...
Tryptophan supplementation induces a positive bias in processing of emotional material...
Cochrane Review of essential fatty acids for schizophrenia inconclusive but recommends more research needed...
Children with healthier diets do better in school...
Good food boosts school performance...
Poor diet associated with worse mental health in teens...
Schizophrenia symptoms may be helped by a gluten free, low carb diet...
Drug treatment for Schizophrenics may induce diabetes...
Fish oil may reduce psychotic disorders in high risk individuals...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA helps schizophrenia symptoms...
Dietary sources of fat associated with schizophrenia...
Low essential fats worse for Schizophrenia symptoms...
Benefits may outweigh risks for seafood consumption in pregnancy...
Certain combinations of food additives are linked to hyperactivtiy in young children...
Food additives and hyperactivity in children...
Good food in infancy boosts earning power ...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Supplement combination helps the elderly get a good night’s sleep...
Omega 3 concentrations relationship to physical and mental well being...
Omega-3 supplementation reduces anxiety and inflammation in healthy young adults...
Efficacy and cost of micronutrient treatment of childhood psychosis
Publications and events
Current events
Food for the Brain Alzheimer's Conference 2011
More information of the speakers
Food for the Brain Conference 2008
Nutritional Strategies for Breaking Addiction - Speakers
FfB Mental Health Masterclass with Bill Walsh PHD from the Pfeiffer Treatment Centre
The Gut Brain Link in Autism, Depression and Mental Health
E-news
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
October 2012
September 2012
July 2012
June 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Further support
Reports
Nutritional interventions for the adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia: a brief review
The Links Between Diet and Behaviour
Food for the brain child survey report
Nutrients and Alzheimer's Disease Prevention: 2011 Review
Depression - the nutrition connection
Alzheimer's and Dementia - the nutrition connection
Oxidative Stress in Autism
Double blind placebo-controlled study of zinc sulfate in the treatment of ADHD
Effect of consumpton of soft drinks on hyperactivity and behaviour
Effect of Omega 3 supplementation on visual and cognitive development in childhood
Glucose tolerance predicts performance on tests of memory and cognition
Inositol deficiency deit and lithium effects
LC PFAs in Childhood Development and Psychiatric Disorders
Major Depressive Disorder, NEJM, 2008
O-3 Treatment of Childhood Depression - double blind controlled pilot study
Omega 3 for recurrent Unipolar Depressive Disorder
Raising IQ through vitamin and mineral supplementation
Supplementation with PFAs and Micronutrients on learning & behaviour in ADHD
The NEMO Study Group, 2007
Unhealthful Eating Patterns and overall school performance in Children
Zinc in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Resources
Accreditation in catering
Support us
Support us by donating
Support us by fundraising
Partners
About us
Who we are
Board of Trustees
Scientific Advisory Board
Current vacancies
Donate
Friends of Food for the Brain
Register
Donate today
Donate through legacy
Donate by volunteering
Why donate?
Newsletter Signup
Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Easy Read
Cookies policy
My Profile
Payment
3D Landing
3D Validate
Payment Result
Checkout Step 2
Checkout
Advertising Policy
download
sitemap.xml
adhdtest
Advertising
Nairns ad
Solgar
Cherry Active
York Test
Food Matters Live
Conference 2011 CD
preventionsteps
Friends
rsvp
Alzheimers' Prevention PLAN B
Newsletter update
appgdementia
alzriskfactors
igedstatement
thenutritionconnection
actiononalzheimers
enews
Admin Position
Nutrition for Children's Learning and Development
Nutrition for Depression
Overcoming stress and anxiety – how to stay calm, stop the energy drain and build resilience
accreditation-redirect
seminar-site redirect (1)
Free newsletter
Cognitive function test
Smart Kids test
We can help you
Twitter
FOOD FOR THE BRAIN
www.foodforthebrain.org
Follow
Go to full profile →
Depression
Depression is rated by the World Health Organisation as the leading cause of disease burden amongst high income countries. Depression is characterised by feelings of worthlessness or guilt, poor concentration, loss of energy, fatigue, thoughts of suicide or preoccupation with death, loss or increase of appetite and weight, a disturbed sleep pattern, slowing down (both physically and mentally), agitation (restlessness or anxiety). If you think you are feeling down, try our free depression test questionnaire to check your mood.
There are many factors that can contribute to the development of depression such as psychological issues or biochemical imbalances, and triggers such as major stress or trauma.
There are also a number of nutritional imbalances that can make you prone to depression such as:
Essential fats, do you need more Omega 3?
Homocysteine, is it too high?
Serotonin levels, do they need boosting with amino acids?
Blood sugar balance
Levels of the nutrients chromium and Vitamin D
Food intolerances, could they be making you sad?
To find out more about these factors read on, or click on our Action Plan for Depression.
Watch Fran, a client of the Brain Bio Centre clinic, talking about how a nutritional approach helped support her depression:
More information about the Brain Bio Centre clinic where nutritional imbalances can be analysed can be found here.
WHAT IS DEPRESSION?
In Britain, 1 in 20, or around 3 million people, are diagnosed with depression. Unipolar Depression is rated by the World Health Organization as the leading cause of disease burden amongst high-income countries.
The classic symptoms of depression include feelings of worthlessness or guilt, poor concentration, loss of energy, fatigue, thoughts of suicide or preoccupation with death, loss or increase of appetite and weight, a disturbed sleep pattern, slowing down (both physically and mentally), agitation (restlessness or anxiety).
There are 2 major classifications of depression: typical and atypical. Typical depression tends to feature loss of weight, appetite and difficulty sleeping whereas atypical depression tends to include weight gain, increased appetite and excessive sleepiness and/or sleeping.
ARE YOU DEPRESSED?
Depression is diagnosed on the basis of symptoms in a questionnaire test, the most common being the Hamilton Rating Scale of Depression, or HRS for short. This contains questions about your mood, guilt feelings, suicidal thoughts, insomnia, agitation, anxiety, physical problems, sex drive, and so on. Depending on your test score on these questions, you will be diagnosed with either “mild,” “moderate,” or “severe” depression. Here’s a simplified depression test questionnaire to check your mood.
Check yourself out on this simplified Mood Check.
WHAT CAUSES DEPRESSION?
There are many factors that can contribute to the development of depression. There might be underlying biochemical or psychological issues that predispose an individual to depression. There might be a trigger such as a stressful event, a bereavement, loss of a job, or break up of a relationship. If you are suffering with a low mood, whether you consider that it is depression or not, you should see your GP who can rule out medical causes, recommend counselling, cognitive behavioural therapy and psychotherapy, and assess your medication. Exercise is also very important and there’s lots of evidence that regular exercise boosts mood, especially if you’re able to exercise outdoors in a green environment. Even a walk in the park or a stroll by the river is thought to be beneficial.
There are a number of nutritional imbalances that can make you prone to depression. These are:
Essential fats, do you need more Omega 3?
Homocysteine level, is it too high, corrected with B vitamins?
Serotonin levels, do they need boosting with amino acids?
Blood sugar balance, is yours within the healthy range?
Chromium, are you getting enough?
Vitamin D, the sunshine vitamin
Food intolerances, could food could be making you sad?
To find out more about these factors read on, or click on our Action Plan for Depression
DIET AND NUTRITION...WHAT WORKS
Increase your omega-3 fats
Omega-3 fats are called essential fats, because unlike some other substances, they can’t be manufactured within the human body, and therefore it is essential that you take them in through your diet. The richest dietary source is from oily fish such as salmon, sardines, mackerel, pilchards, herring, trout and fresh but not tinned tuna. Surveys have shown that the more fish the population of a country eats the lower is their incidence of depression. There are two key types of omega-3 fats, EPA and DHA and the evidence suggests that it’s the EPA which seems to be the most potent natural anti-depressant.
There have been six double-blind placebo controlled trials to date, five of which show benefit. The first trial by Dr Andrew Stoll from Harvard Medical School, published in the Archives of General Psychiatry, gave 40 depressed patients either omega 3 supplements versus placebo and found a highly significant improvement. The next, published in the American Journal of Psychiatry, tested the effects of giving twenty people suffering from severe depression, who were already on anti-depressants but still depressed, a highly concentrated form of omega 3 fat, called ethyl-EPA versus a placebo. By the third week the depressed patients were showing major improvement in their mood, while those on placebo were not. A recent pooling of trials (a meta-analysis) which looked at all good quality trials of omega-3 fats and mood disorders concluded that omega-3 fats reduced depressive symptoms by an average of 53% and that there was as correlation between dose and depressive symptom improvement, meaning that higher dose omega-3 was more effective than a lower dose. Of those that measured the Hamilton Rating Scale, including one ‘open’ trial, not involving placebos, the average improvement in depression was approximately double that shown by anti-depressant drugs, without the side-effects. This may be because omega 3s help to build the brain’s neuronal (brain cell) connections as well as the receptor sites for neurotransmitters; therefore, the more omega-3s in your blood, the more serotonin you are likely to make and the more responsive you become to its effects.
Where’s the evidence? Search our evidence database for a list of scientific studies on omega 3 and depression.
Side effects? Very occasionally, when starting omega-3 fish oil supplementation, some people can get slightly loose bowels or fish-tasting burps, but this is quite rare. Supplementing fish oils also reduces risk for heart disease, reduces arthritic pain and may improve memory and concentration.
See action plan for our recommendations.
Increase your intake of B vitamins
People with either low blood levels of the B-vitamin folic acid, or high blood levels of the amino acid homocysteine (a sign that you are not getting enough B6, B12 or folic acid), are both more likely to be depressed and less likely to get a positive result from anti-depressant drugs. In a study comparing the effects of giving an SSRI with either a placebo or with folic acid, 61% of patients improved on the placebo combination but 93% improved with the addition of folic acid. But how does folic acid itself, a cheap vitamin with no side-effects, compare to anti-depressants?
Three trials involving 247 people address this question. Two involving 151 people assessed the use of folic acid in addition to other treatment, and found that adding folic acid reduced HRS scores on average by a further 2.65 points. That’s not as good as the results with 5-HTP (discussed below) but as good, if not better than antidepressants. These studies also show that more patients treated with folate experienced a reduction in their HRS score of greater than 50% after ten weeks compared to those on anti-depressants.
Having a high level of homocysteine, a toxic amino acid found in the blood, doubles the odds of a woman developing depression. The ideal level is below 7, and certainly below 10. The average level is 10-11. Depression risk doubles with levels above 15. The higher your level the more likely folic acid will work for you.
Folic acid is one of seven nutrients – the others being B2, B6, B12, zinc, magnesium and TMG – that help normalise homocysteine. Deficiency in vitamin B3, B6, folic acid, zinc and magnesium have all been linked to depression. Having a low homocysteine means your brain is good at ‘methylating’ which is the process by which the brain keeps it’s chemistry in balance. So it makes sense to both eat wholefoods, fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds, high in these nutrients and supplementing a multivitamin.
Side effects? There are none, except lower risk for heart disease, strokes, Alzheimer’s and improved energy and concentration. However, if you are B12 deficient (most likely if you are elderly, vegan, or are on medication to reduce stomach acid), taking folic acid on its own can mask the B12 deficiency symptoms, but the underlying nerve damage caused by B12 deficiency anaemia can persist. So, don’t take folic acid without also supplementing vitamin B12 (sub-lingual forms are better absorbed, particularly in the elderly).
See action plan for our recommendations.
Boost your serotonin with amino acids
Serotonin is made in the body and brain from an amino acid called tryptophan. Tryptophan is then converted into another amino acid called 5-Hydroxy Tryptophan (5-HTP), which in turn is converted into the neurotransmitter serotonin. Tryptophan can be found in the diet; it’s in many protein rich foods such as meat, fish, beans and eggs. 5-HTP is found in high levels in the African Griffonia bean, but this bean is not a common feature of most people’s diet. Just not getting enough tryptophan is likely to make you depressed; people fed food deficient in tryptophan became rapidly depressed within hours.
Both tryptophan and 5-HTP have been shown to have an antidepressant effect in clinical trials, although 5HTP is more effective - 27 studies, involving 990 people to date, most of which proved effective. . So how do they compare with anti-depressants? In play-off studies between 5-HTP and SSRI antidepressants, 5-HTP generally comes out slightly better. One double-blind trial headed by Dr. Poldinger at the Basel University of Psychiatry gave 34 depressed volunteers either the SSRI fluvoxamine (Luvox) or 300 mg of 5-HTP. At the end of the six weeks, both groups of patients had had a significant improvement in their depression. However, those taking 5-HTP had a slightly greater improvement, compared to those on the SSRI, in each of the four criteria assessed—depression, anxiety, insomnia, and physical symptoms—as well as their own self-assessment, although this improvement was not statistically significant.
Since anti-depressant drugs, in some sensitive people, can induce an overload of serotonin called ‘serotonin syndrome’ characterised by feeling hot, high blood pressure, twitching, cramping, dizziness and disorientation, some concern has been expressed about the possibility of increased risk of serotonin syndrome with the combination of 5-HTP and an SSRI drug. The balance of evidence suggests that there is little to no risk, however, if you wish to take 5-HTP or tryptophan alongside a serotonergic drug (SSRI or tricyclic antidepressant that boosts serotonin levels), you should first consult your prescribing doctor.
Exercise, sunlight and reducing your stress level also tend to promote serotonin.
Side-effects? Some people experience mild gastrointestinal disturbance on 5-HTP, which usually stops within a few days. Since there are serotonin receptors in the gut, which don’t normally expect to get the real thing so easily, they can overreact if the amount is too high, resulting in transient nausea. If so, just lower the dose or take it with food.
See action plan for our recommendations.
Balance your blood sugar
There is a direct link between mood and blood sugar balance. All carbohydrate foods are broken down into glucose and your brain runs on glucose. The more uneven your blood sugar supply the more uneven your mood. In fact, our experience at the Brain Bio Centre is that poor blood sugar balance is often the single-biggest factor in mood disorders amongst the people that seek our advice.
Eating lots of sugar is going to give you sudden peaks and troughs in the amount of glucose in your blood; symptoms that this is going on include fatigue, irritability, dizziness, insomnia, excessive sweating (especially at night), poor concentration and forgetfulness, excessive thirst, depression and crying spells, digestive disturbances and blurred vision. Since the brain depends on an even supply of glucose it is no surprise to find that sugar has been implicated in aggressive behaviour, anxiety, and depression, and fatigue .
Lots of refined sugar and refined carbohydrates (meaning white bread, pasta, rice and most processed foods,) is also linked with depression because these foods not only supply very little in the way of nutrients but they also use up the mood enhancing B vitamins; turning each teaspoon of sugar into energy needs B vitamins. In fact, a study of 3,456 middle-aged civil servants, published in British Journal of Psychiatry found that those who had a diet which contained a lot of processed foods had a 58% increased risk for depression, whereas those whose diet could be described as containing more whole foods had a 26% reduced risk for depression.
Sugar also diverts the supply of another nutrient involved in mood – chromium. This mineral is vital for keeping your blood sugar level stable because insulin, which clears glucose from the blood, can’t work properly without it. There is more on chromium below.
The best way to keep your blood sugar level even is to eat what is called a low Glycemic Load (GL) diet and avoid, as much as you can, refined sugar and refined foods, eating instead whole foods, fruits, vegetables, and regular meals. The book, the Holford Low GL Diet Bible, explains exactly how to do this so this is a great resource if you really want to improve your blood sugar balance. Caffeine also has a direct effect on your blood sugar and your mood and is best kept to a minimum, as is alcohol.
Where’s the evidence? Search our evidence database for a list of scientific studies on sugar, caffeine and depression.
Side effects? None.
See action plan for our recommendations.
Up your intake of chromium
This mineral is vital for keeping your blood sugar level stable because insulin, which clears glucose from the blood, can't work properly without it. In fact it turns out that just supplying proper levels of chromium to people with atypical depression can make a big difference.
If you answer yes to a five or more of these questions and you might be suffering from atypical depression.
Do you crave sweets or other carbohydrates?
Do you tend to gain weight?
Are you tired for no obvious reason?
Do your arms or legs feel heavy?
Do you tend to feel sleepy or groggy much of the time?
Are your feelings easily hurt by the rejection of others?
Did your depression begin before the age of 30?
It is called atypical because in ‘classic’ depression people lose their appetite, don’t eat enough, lose weight and can’t sleep whereas with atypical, the opposite is generally true. Atypical depression affects anywhere from 25 to 42 percent of the depressed population, and an even higher percentage among depressed women so it’s extremely common rather than being ‘atypical’. A chance discovery by Dr Malcolm McLeod, clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of North Carolina, suggested that people who suffer with ‘atypical’ depression might benefit from chromium supplementation.
In a small double-blind study McLeod gave ten patients suffering from atypical depression chromium supplements of 600mcg a-day and five others a placebo for eight weeks. The results were dramatic. Seven out of ten taking the supplements showed a big improvement, versus none on the placebo. Their Hamilton Rating Score for depression dropped by an unheard of 83%; from 29 - major depression - to 5 – not depressed. A larger trial at Cornell University with 113 patients has confirmed the finding. After eight weeks 65% of those on chromium had had a major improvement, compared to 33% on placebos.
In our experience at the Brain Bio Centre, people with atypical depression generally have other symptoms of poor blood sugar balance, so if this sounds like you, then in addition to supplementing chromium, you should focus on improving blood sugar balance.
Side effects? None, except more energy and better weight control. Chromium, if taken in the evening, can increase energy and hence interfere with sleep.
See action plan for our recommendations.
Bring on the sunshine
Known as the ‘sunshine vitamin’, around 90% of our vitamin D is synthesised in our skin by the action of sunlight. Vitamin D deficiency is increasingly being recognised as a common problem around the globe and may be implicated in depression, particularly if you feel worse in winter.
You are most at risk for vitamin D deficiency if you are elderly (since your ability to make it in the skin reduces with age), dark-skinned (you require up to 6 times more sunshine than a light-skinned person to make the same amount of vitamin D), overweight (your vitamin D stores may be tucked away within your fat tissue), or you tend to shy away from the sun – covering up and using sun-block. Of course, you should never risk your skin health by getting sun-burned.
Side effects? None
See action plan for our recommendations.
Bad mood foods
Some foods are associated with mood problems. For example, in a huge population study, Coeliac Disease (a severe intolerance to gluten – the protein found in wheat, rye and barley) was associated with an 80% increased risk for depression. It is thought that Coeliac Disease is vastly underdiagnosed in the UK. Your GP can test for it, and should test you if you have fluctuating digestive symptoms including diarrhoea, constipation or bloating, and especially if you have unexplained anaemia. In fact, you can have mood symptoms relating to gluten, even without Coeliac Disease.
At the Brain Bio Centre we routinely test individuals with low mood or motivation for food intolerance. It is not at all uncommon for us to find that putting a person on the allergy-free diet they need relieves symptoms of depression, insomnia or anxiety.
Peter is a case in point. When he came to the Brain Bio Centre he had had a long history of mental health problems, which left him unable to work, and years of trying various anti-depressants. He had severe periods of depression, along with many unpleasant side effects from the medication. He felt he wanted to be able to “enjoy life to the full” but wasn’t able to.
When we tested him for IgG based food intolerances he reacted to many foods including gluten, egg white, corn and barley. After removing these foods from his diet, along with a supplement programme to support his general health he began to experience fewer spells of feeling down and had noticed what he described as a “huge improvement” in his general wellbeing and mood.
So if you suffer from poor concentration, insomnia, anxiety or other symptoms of depleted mental health, it’s well worth investigating whether food intolerances play a part.
If you score high on the following questions there’s a good chance you have hidden food intolerances.
Your food sensitivity check.
Side effects? None, if changes are made with professional guidance. Dramatic changes to diets without professional supervision may cause nutrient deficiencies, especially over the longer term.
See action plan for our recommendations.
References
Fobbester, D et al., Optimum Nutrition UK survey, October 2004. Available from www.ion.ac.uk
G.Brown et al., Social support, self-esteem and depression. Psychol Med. 1986 Nov;16(4):813-31.
Omega-3
Hibbeln JR. 'Fish consumption and major depression'. Lancet, vol 351(9110), pp. 1213 (1998)
M. Peet and R, Stokes, Omega 3 Fatty Acids in the Treatment of Psychiatric Disorders Drugs, vol 65(8), pp. 1051-9 (2005)
S Kraguljac NV, Montori VM, Pavuluri M, Chai HS, Wilson BS, Unal SS (2009) Efficacy of omega-3 Fatty acids in mood disorders - a systematic review and metaanalysis. Psychopharmacology Bulletin 42(3):39-54
B Vitamins
Coppen & Bailey J. Affective Disorders 2000; 60: 121-130
M. J. Taylor et al., Folate for depressive disorders. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2003 Issue 2. Art. No.: CD003390. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003390.
I. Bjelland et al. Folate, Vitamin B12, Homocysteine, and the MTHFR 677CT Polymorphism in Anxiety and Depression: The Hordaland Homocysteine Study, Arch Gen Psychiatry, vol 60, pp. 618-26 (2003)
Serotonin
E. Turner, Serotoninalacarte: Supplementation with the serotonin precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan.' Pharmacology&Therapeutics (2005) [article in press].
W. Poldinger et al. A functional-dimensional approach to depression: serotonin deficiency and target syndrome in a comparison of 5-hydroxytryptophan and fluvoxamine, Psychopathology vol 24(2), pp. 53-81 (1991)
Associate editor: K.A. Neve 'Serotonin a la carte: Supplementation with the serotonin precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan' ErickH. Turner a,c,d,*, Jennifer M. Loftis a,b,c, AaronD. Blackwell a,b,e Pharmacology & Therapeutics(2005) www.elsevier.com/locate/pharmthera
Blood sugar level
D. Benton et al, 'Mild hypoglycaemia and questionnaire measures of aggression', Biol Psychol, vol 14(1-2), pp. 129-35 (1982)
A. Roy et al, Monoamines, glucose metabolism, aggression toward self and others, Int J Neurosci, vol 41(3-4), pp. 261-4 (1988)
A. G. Schauss, Diet, Crime and Delinquency, Parker House (1980)
M. Virkkunen, 'Reactive hypoglycaemic tendency among arsonists', Acta Psychiatr Scand, vol 69(5), 1984, pp. 445-52
M. Virkkunen and S. Narvanen, 'Tryptophan and serotonin levels during the glucose tolerance test among habitually violent and impulsive offenders', Neuropsychobiology, vol 17(1-2), 1987, pp. 19-23
J. Yaryura-Tobias and F. Neziroglu F, 'Violent behaviour, Brain dysrythmia and glucose dysfunction. A new syndrome', J Ortho Psych, vol 4, pp. 182-5 (1975)
M. Bruce and M. Lader, 'Caffeine abstention and the management of anxiety disorders', Psychol Med, vol 19, pp. 211-14 (1989)
L. Christensen, 'Psychological distress and diet - effects of sucrose and caffeine', J Appl Nutr, vol 40(1), pp. 44-50 (1988)
L. Christensen, 'Psychological distress and diet' Ibid.
Akbaraly TN et al., (2009) Dietary pattern and depressive symptoms in middle age. Brit J Psychiatry. 195:408-413
Chromium
Lifting Depression - The Chromium Connection by Dr Malcolm McLeod (Basic Health Publications):
J. R. Davidson et al, Effectiveness of chromium in atypical depression: a placebo-controlled trial, Biol Psychiatry, vol 53(3), pp. 261-4 (2003)
Docherty, J et al, 'A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Exploratory Trial of Chromium Picolinate in Atypical Depression'. Journal of Psychiatric Practice. Vol 11(5), pp. 302-314, (2005)
Vitamin D
Lansdowne AT, Provost SC. (1998) Vitamin D3 enhances mood in healthy subjects during winter. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 135:319–323
Golden RN et al., (2005) The efficacy of light therapy in the treatment of mood disorders: a review and meta-analysis of the evidence. Am J Psychiatry 162:656-62
Pearce SHS , Cheetham TD (2010) Diagnosis and management of vitamin D deficiency, BMJ 340:142-147
G.W. Lambert et al., ‘Effect of sunlight and season on serotonin turnover in the brain’, Lancet, 2002;360(9348):1840-2
C.Wilkins et al.,’ Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood and worse cognitive performance in older adults.’ The American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, 2006;14(12):1032-40;
A.Nanri et al., ‘Association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and depressive symptoms in Japanese: analysis by survey season’, European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 2009 Dec;63(12):1444-7: R. Jorde et al., ‘Effects of vitamin D supplementation on symptoms of depression in overweight and obese subjects: randomized double blind trial’, Archives of General p
Psychiatry, 2008 May;65(5):508-12.
Food sensitivities
Ludvigsson JF et al., (2007) Coeliac disease and risk of mood disorders-a general population-based cohort study. J Affect Disord. 99:117-26
Ford RP. (2009) The gluten syndrome: a neurological disease. Med Hypotheses. 73(3):438-40
Back to top
Join us...
Contact Us
Make an appointment
Vacancies
About us
Board of Trustees
Our mission
Cookies Policy
Scientific Advisory Board
Advertising Policy
About this site
Site Map
Policies
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
is a not for profit educational charity
© 2012 Food for the Brain. All Rights Reserved
Food for the Brain is a registered charity (No: 1116438) and is limited by guarantee (Company Number 5885305)