L-theanine - Sing Your Stress Goodbye ~ CURENATURE.com
CURENATURE.com
| Nature Cure & Awareness - Evidence Based |
Home
Disease & Cure
Health Conditions
Harmful Intakes
Dietetics
Exercise & Yoga
Medicinal Herbs
Vitamins & Supplements
General Awareness
Green Science
Green Tech
About
Pages
About
Home
Health-Conditions
Vitamins & Supplements
Medicinal Herbs
05:19 ADHD, Alzheimer's Disease, Anxiety-Depression, Cancer, Hypertension / High Blood Pressure, Insomnia, Mental Health
L-theanine - Sing Your Stress Goodbye
L-theanine is an amino acid which comes primarily from leaves of the plant Camellia sinensis, used to produce black, oolong and green tea. L-theanine, an FDA approved safe food supplement, is isolated from the tea plant or synthesized artificially and sold in a purified form.
L-theanine reduces cortisol levels and increases relaxation associated with recovery from a stressful task. Importantly, it increases activity in alpha brain waves which improves cognition and enhance mental alertness without any drowsiness. Not only does it helps maintain a calm alertness during the day but also results in deeper sleep at night without morning drowsiness or impaired concentration.
Additionally, L-theanine increases dopamine and serotonin production and decreases norepinephrine concentrations (a stress hormone which affects parts of the brain, where attention and responses are controlled).
Stress Buster
A 2006 study in the "Journal of Herbal Pharmacotherapy," found increased amount of the inhibitory transmitter GABA present in the brain with the use of L-theanine, and therefore concluded its "calming" effect on the nervous system.
Depression Use
A 2009 study in "Amino Acids" found that the amount of dopamine produced by the brain was increased by L-theanine. Dopamine is a major neurotransmitter that affects mood, attention, memory and sleep. Similarly there are numerous other studies that show its potential in depression treatment.
Schizophrenia Use
According to a study by M.S. Ritsner et al., at the Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel published in the January 2011 "Journal of Clinical Psychiatry", l-theanine produced modest to moderate improvements in scores on psychopathology evaluation tests done on schizophrenic patients.
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
As obsessive-compulsive disorder often occurs alongside depression or other anxiety disorders which are successfully treated by l-theanine, therefore it has also been used in treating OCD effectively.
Bipolar Use
Many studies postulate that theanine modulates the levels of neurotransmitters, ie - if one's dopamine levels are too high, theanine lowers it. If one's serotonin levels are too low - it raises it.
Corrects Adrenal Fatigue
With Chronic Stress your adrenal gland can be overworked as it would be producing stress hormones constantly which results in its degradation. The relaxing effect L-theanine has on your body helps to reduce stress levels and restore your adrenal glands to proper function.
High Blood Pressure
Department of experimental psychology at the University of Bristol found that L-theanine significantly reduced the blood pressure elevating properties of caffeine when co-administered with 200 mg of L-theanine. Similarly many other studies show its usage in treating Hypertension.
Immune Booster
A 2008 study in "Nutrition Reviews" showed enhanced action of the immune system cells gamma-delta-T cells with L-theanine.
Anti-Cancer
- An article in the Oct. 1, 2000 issue of "Cancer Letters" explains that l-theanine boosts some chemotherapy drugs' effects. Chemo drugs cause significant decreases in leukocyte white blood cells and bone marrow cells. Theanine significantly reversed these changes, indicating that theanine can selectively moderate chemotherapy toxicity.
- A study published in "Bioscience, Biotechnology and Biochemistry" in April 2002, found beneficial effects against liver cancer with the use of dietary powdered green tea and theanine.
Protection from Glutamate Neurotoxicity
L-theanine also directly provides neuroprotection against glutamate neurotoxicity through blockade of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), and a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors.
Safety
The Food and Drug Administration classifies L-theanine supplements as "Generally Recognized as Safe" in dosages up to 250mg. But as always, check with your health care provider before consuming any L-theanine supplement. Do not use L-theanine on children, if you are pregnant or breast feeding.
Dosage
L-Theanine is used is single doses of 50mg to 200mg.
Interactions
Taking theanine along with medications for high blood pressure might cause your blood pressure to go too low.
L-theanine may potentiate other sedative, anxiolytic, or tranquilizing drugs.
L-theanine may also increase the intoxicating effects of alcohol.
There have been no documented interactions of L-theanine with antidepressants, however, you should always consult your health care provider before combining any other drug therapy with L-theanine.
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook
Blog Archive
▼ 13 (201)
► July (3)
► June (37)
► May (35)
▼ April (43)
L-theanine - Sing Your Stress Goodbye
Study: Faith In God Improves Mental Health
Food Pesticide Information
Resveratrol & Health
Beat Stress In Morning To Have A Good Day
L-Carnitine
Branched Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs)
Increase Testosterone Naturally
Decrease Estrogen Levels In Men
Vitamin K & Health
Zinc
SAMe - Natural Supplement Everyone Should Know Abo...
5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP)
Health Hazards of Monosodium Glutamate (MSG)
Dangers of Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors...
Arsenic in Poultry Chickens
Potassium's Role in Body
H7N9 Bird Flu May Spread
High Fructose Health Hazards
Stop Self-Criticism
Pharmaceutical Drugs In Water Supply
Treating Asthma Naturally
Bitcoin - A Short Term Gamble
Good Fats vs. Bad Fats
Lactose Intolerance
Diverticulitis
Understanding Back Pain
Best Way to Improve Digestion
Fulfilling Future Food & Water Scarcity - A Missio...
Honeybee Colony Collapse - An Example for Humans
Hugs Are Good For Health
Beat Insomnia Naturally
Yoga Poses for Anxiety, Depression & Insomnia
Beat Depression Naturally
BPA – Plastic Toxin
Technological Unemployment, Education and Economy
Gallstones
Peptic Ulcers
Inflammatory Bowel Disease or IBD
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease or GERD
Premenstrual Syndrome or PMS
Best Desserts for Weight Loss
Chronic Kidney Disease
► March (40)
► February (26)
► January (17)
Popular Posts
How Man-Made Hybrid Plants Ruined Your Food
Random natural hybridization is essentially how new species of plants arise – stretched out over time - with the ability to sustain i...
Increase Testosterone Naturally
Testosterone is an anabolic-androgenic steroid hormone produced primarily by the testicles in males and although in lesser amounts than men...
Chronic Kidney Disease
Chronic renal disease or chronic kidney disease, is a result of slow progressive loss of kidney function over a period of numerous years u...
Diverticulitis
Diverticulitis is a form of digestive disease which results in the formation of pouches known as diverticula within the bowel wall. This pr...
Treat Cystic Fibrosis Naturally
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease that affects the mucous glands especially of lungs, pancreas and intestines. There is increased prod...
FO TI (HO-SHOU WU) - Turns White Hair to Black
Ho-Shou wu is a Chinese herb, the discovery of which is associated with a Chinese man who was 58 years old and got trapped by the flo...
Why Choose Chlorella over Spirulina
Chlorella is a microalgae, a nutrient dense "superfood" containing high levels of protein, amino-acids, antioxidants, chlo...
Heavy Metal Toxicity & Effective Chelators
Heavy metal is a serious threat to the health of your body and brain. With the rise of industrialization, heavy metal pollution of the ...
Decrease Estrogen Levels In Men
Rise of estrogen levels in men over their natural balance can cause many unpleasant side effects and can lead to chronic health conditions....
Nails Indicated Health Conditions
Healthy nails indicate a body that’s likely to be healthy too. If your nails are clubbed, thin, spooned, discolored, easily broken, have t...
© CURENATURE.com
The information provided on this website is solely for informational purpose. We do not take responsibility for any possible consequences from any action, treatment, procedure, exercise, dietary modification, application of medication which results from reading or following the information contained in this website. Before undertaking any course of treatment, the reader must seek the advice of their health care provider.