L-Theanine Overdose
Share:
eMedTV Login
eMedTV Home
TOPIC HOME
HEALTH CHANNELS
HEALTH TOPICS A-Z
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Alzheimers Home > L-Theanine Overdose
It is not known exactly what to expect from an L-theanine overdose or whether an overdose is even possible. The effects of an overdose would probably vary for each person, depending on how much of the supplement was taken. It is also not known how to best treat an overdose of L-theanine. Overdose treatment may involve certain medications, getting the stomach "pumped," or supportive care.
An Overview of L-Theanine Overdose
L-theanine (also known as just theanine) is an amino acid found in tea. It is sometimes used in dietary supplements as a natural anxiety treatment. It is not known exactly what to expect with an L-theanine overdose, although the effects of an overdose will likely vary, depending on the L-theanine dosage as well as other factors.
If you happen to overdose on L-theanine, seek medical attention immediately.
Effects of an L-Theanine Overdose
Very little is known about the possible effects of an L-theanine overdose. In fact, very little is known about L-theanine side effects in general, even at normal doses. At this point, it is not possible to predict the effects of an L-theanine overdose, whether such effects would be mild or serious, or even if an L-theanine overdose is possible.
Treatment for an L-Theanine Overdose
Just as it is not known what to expect from an L-theanine overdose, it is also not known how to best treat an overdose of L-theanine. If the overdose was recent, your healthcare provider may give certain medicines or place a tube into the stomach to "pump the stomach." Treatment (if necessary) will also involve supportive care, which consists of treating the symptoms that occur as a result of the overdose.
It is important that you seek medical attention immediately if you believe that you may have overdosed on L-theanine.
Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD;
Last updated/reviewed:
List of references (click here):
Jellin JM, editor. Pharmacist's Letter/Prescriber's Letter Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Available at: http://naturaldatabase.com/. Accessed March 4, 2008.
Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
L-Theanine
Benefits of L-Theanine
Does L-Theanine Work?
L-Theanine Side Effects
L-Theanine Dosage
L-Theanine Drug Interactions
L-Theanine Safety
L-Theanine and Pregnancy
L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
L-Theanine Overdose
Topics & Medications
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Alzheimer's Disease
Aricept
Binswanger's Disease
Cognex
Dementia
Exelon
Ginkgo Biloba
L-Theanine
Lecithin
Lewy Body Dementia
NADH
Namenda
Namenda XR
Phosphatidylserine
Razadyne
Vitamin E
Quicklinks
Alzheimer's
Lewy Body Dementia
Dementia
Aricept
Symptoms of Dementia
Causes of Dementia
Vitamin E
Benefits of Vitamin E
Namenda
Exelon
Cognex
L-Theanine
Phosphatidylserine
Ginkgo Biloba
Lecithin
Related Channels
Depression
Mental Health
Nervous System
Senior Health
eMedTV Links
Exit Mobile View
Terms of Use
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About eMedTV
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2006-2019 Clinaero, Inc.
eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind. Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician. Click Terms of Use for more information.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.