Yoga for Asthma Relief | Yoga asana for Asthama prevention
+977-9851201828 nepalayurvedahome@gmail.com
Other Course
Reiki in Nepal
15 Hours Astrology Training in Nepal
Singing Bowl in Nepal
Senior Yoga Teacher Training
Blog
sitemap
Home
Ayurveda
Long Ayurveda Retreat
One month Ayurveda Retreats in Nepal
Three Weeks Ayurveda Retreat course
Two Weeks Ayurveda Retreat
Short Ayurveda Retreat
One Week Ayurveda Retreat in Nepal
Two Weeks of Ayurvedic Beauty Care Training
Two weeks Ayurvedic Cooking course
Three Nights Ayurveda Retreat
Ayurveda Training
Two Weeks Ayurveda Training in Nepal
Three weeks Ayurveda training in Kathmandu
yoga
Training
200 Hours Yoga Teachers Training in Nepal
300 Hours Yoga Teacher Training in Nepal
Therapeutic Yoga Teacher Training
Kundalini Yoga Teacher Training
Long Retreat
One month complete yoga retreat in Nepal
Three Weeks Blissful Yoga Retreat in Nepal
Ten Nights Mind Managing Yoga Retreat
one week Yoga Hike in Nepal
Short Retreat
One Week yoga meditation retreat
5 Nights Recharging Yoga Retreat
2 Night Vitalizing Yoga Retreat
Whole Day Energizing Yoga
Acupuncture
9 Nights Traditional Chinese Medicine
massage
Two Weeks Massage Training
Teachers
Booking
Select Page
Yoga for Asthma Relief
by ayurvedahome | Apr 4, 2019 | yoga | 0 comments
Yoga Asana for Asthma Relief
Yoga has many health benefits, though it might be difficult to realize what the natural asthma relief is. Researchers have found some important yoga asanas that are helpful for asthma.
Among the many healing effects, yoga is natural asthma relief. Normal exercises are also good for asthma, some forms of physical activity can be challenging for the people with asthma if they feel exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. So, yoga is more favorable. Gentle stretches and concessional pace of yoga are all-around stress-relieving techniques. To include yoga into your natural asthma relief plan, you can begin start with these asanas, pranayama and mudras.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Savasana
Method: Lie on your back with palms, facing upwards, about half foot apart from the waist at your sides and feet open about one to two feet apart with each other. Observe your entire body and make it comfortable with closed eyes. Keep your whole body relax drawing your focus inward. Now take attention on your natural relaxing every part of your body. Remain here for 5 to 10 minutes, with continuous observation of breath.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Sukasana , Siddhasana and Padmasana
Sukhasana is an easier pose. Siddhasana and Padmasana somewhat challenging for the beginners. You can chose any one of them.
Methods: These there poses are seated asanas, with back, torso and neck straight, abdomen drawing inwards, chest open and lifted. These are helpful for meditation as well. Hold the pose for five minutes observing the natural breaths. For Sukhasana;simply cross your legs and sit down. For Siddhasana, theleft heel touched perineum, and right heel touching to pelvic bone, just on the left heel. Do it for same duration alternating the legs as well. For Padmasana, keep left foot on right thigh and right foot on left thigh.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Upavishta Konasana (Straddled Splits)
Upavishta Konasana stretches out not only legs but also engages upper body for up the lungs.
Methods: Sit straddling leg wide apart and your heels stretched. Inhaling, raise hands up and exhaling fold your body forward, walking your hands frontwards and try to touch chin on the floor. Stay in this pose as you take five breaths.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Pada-Hastasana (Forward bending pose)
Methods: For asthma healing, we have to do a little modification of Pada-Hastasana. Stand straight with legs hip-width apart, bent your body forward, if there is excessive strain in the lower back, you can slightly bend in the knees to relieve the strain. Folding your arms, hold elbows with the opposite hand, and allow your body hang. Eyes closed and take five deep breaths.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Setubandhasana (Bridge pose)
It is an important yoga asana for healing asthma relief as it helps to open the lungs.
Methods: Lie on supine, bend your knees and lift your butt up off the floor with the help of palms. Try to lift your tailbone upward toward the ceiling to make thighs parallel with the floor. Shoulder blades pressed in toward your back, with expansion of your chest. You can hold it for about 30 seconds to 1 minute, then release with exhalation.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Baddhakonasana (Butterfly)
The butterfly is a relaxing yoga pose popular for asthma relief.
Methods: Sit bending at knees dropped out to the sides, heels together as closer to the perineum as possible. Now your legs remain like two butterfly wings. Move your legs up and down with rhythmic inhalation and exhalation. You can also fold your body forward to press down your knees a bit more with elbow. Hold this asana minimum for five deep breaths.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Salambha Matsyasana (Supportive Fish)
Matsyasana is very good for respiratory track and bronchial tube, so helpful for asthma.
Methods: Lie down with back on a pillow or yoga brick, middle back on the pillow and a thicker pillow or rolled-up towel behind your neck. The bridge of nose aligned with your chin. Keep legs straight out, palm facing upwards keeping arms at a 45-degree angle from your hips, with palms facing upwards. Keep your body relaxed and breathe in this position for about 3 minutes to five minutes.
Yoga for Asthma Relief: Pranayama
All the pranayamas are helpful for Asthma. The pranayamas like Kapal bhati, Bhastika, Nadi-sodhan, Anulom Vilom, etc are very good for healing asthma.
Besides, Yoga asana and pranayama, Hasta Mudras are also equally important for healing Asthma. Following are some important Hasta Mudras for Asthma:
Prithvi Mudra
Asthma Mudra
Linga Mudra
Bronchial Mudra
Surya Mudra
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Recent Posts
Yogic Healing for Alcoholism and Other Drug Addiction
Yoga for Asthma Relief
﻿Ayurvedic Treatment For Sinusitis
Importance of Yoga Teacher Training in this modern life
Yoga Asanas for Winter Imbalance
Actionable Ways to Overcome Morning Fatigue with yoga
Brain Waves
12 secrets of lifestyle management
How to activate Chakra
Seven Chakras in Human Body
Like our Facebook page
Contact Us
Nepal Ayurveda Home
Contact: +977-9849521828, +977-9851167373
Email: nepalayurvedahome@gmail.com
Address: Kwabahal, Thamel (Inside Hotel Nepalaya), Kathmandu
Read our Recent Posts
Yogic Healing for Alcoholism and Other Drug Addiction
Yoga for Asthma Relief
﻿Ayurvedic Treatment For Sinusitis
Importance of Yoga Teacher Training in this modern life
Yoga Asanas for Winter Imbalance
Popular Courses
Ayurveda Retreats
Massage Training
Beauty services
Yoga Meditation Retreats
Healing courses (reiki, singling bowl)
Home
Ayurveda
yoga
Acupuncture
massage
Teachers
Booking
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Copyright © 2018 Nepal Ayurveda Home. All right reserved.
error: Content is protected !!