Evening Primrose Oil Review (UPDATE: 2019) | BrainReference.com
Menu
CATEGORY
Memory Disorders
Movement Disorders
Mood Disorders
Hormone Disorders
Attention Disorders
Anxiety Disorders
Autism Disorders
Addictive Disorders
Pain Disorders
Other Disorders
Disorder Tools
Disorder Ingredients
Disorder Research
ABOUT
About Us
Medical Disclaimer
Advertising Disclosure
CONTACT
Company
About Us
Topics
CATEGORY
MEMORY DISORDERS
MOVEMENT DISORDERS
MOOD DISORDERS
HORMONE DISORDERS
ATTENTION DISORDERS
ANXIETY DISORDERS
AUTISM DISORDERS
ADDICTIVE DISORDERS
PAIN DISORDERS
OTHER DISORDERS
DISORDER TOOLS
DISORDER INGREDIENTS
DISORDER RESEARCH
ABOUT
MEDICAL DISCLAIMER
ADVERTISING DISCLOSURE
CONTACT
Close Menu
Last updated: 02/25/2019 - Advertising Disclosure
×
Advertising Disclosure
BrainReference is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.
We aim to provide consumers with helpful, in-depth information about brain health products. Whether we make money or not on a certain page does not influence the core mission of our writers and medical reviewers, which is to publish content that is accurate and informative.
All product names, logos, and brands are the property of their respective owners.
Home Memory Disorders Evening Primrose Oil
Evening Primrose Oil Review
By Razvan Radu, Senior Writer - Last updated: Feb 25, 2019
0 User Comments
Evening Primrose Oil by Sports Research promises no additives or artificial ingredients in this gluten free and Non-GMO product. Evening Promise Oil is great for body nourishment because it contains sufficient amount of Gamma Linoleic Acid (GLA) that are obtained from plant seed oils, GLA offers one of the best body relaxation methods found in a container. The ingredients provide the key element needed in giving the body a quick healing and recovery time. The manufacturer state that it can be used by both male and females to get the same effect.
Ingredients
Evening Primrose Oil contains the following ingredients: Evening Primrose Oil (seed) 1,300 mg, Omega-6 Fatty Acids (Linoleic Acid 960 mg and Gamma-Linoleic Acid 130 mg), and Omega-9 Fatty Acids (including Oleic Acid) 65 mg.
Product Features
Kosher Gelatin: it is an ingredient that has been used for many years to thicken food products. It is good for skin growth and bone development. It plays a vital role in generating the joint cartilage.
Linoleic Acid: this is a group of chemicals that are found in most fatty acids. The acid is used to cure some types of cancer, softens the hardened arteries due to mineral deposits and also used by body builders to help them in muscle development. Linoleic Acid is also used to counter some allergic reactions to food.
Evening Primrose Oil: an ingredient extracted from plant seeds that are used to cure some skin disorders such as eczema and acne. Can be a remedy to weak bones, high cholesterol, heart disease, pain due to blocked blood vessels and stomach ulcers.
The product boasts of a high potency mixture that comprises of 10% Gamma Linoleic Acid (GLA) which is a form of Non-GMO oil that is cold processed. Its natural ingredients mean that it can be used a dietary supplement by both males and females with no side effects. The main ingredient, according to the manufacturer is cold processed from the seeds of the evening primrose plant that is further blended with a mix of high concentrated fatty acid that adds to the healing properties of Evening Primrose Oil. Use of the product guarantees healthy skin by increasing the levels of prostaglandin and is capable of creating a balance your immune response.
The product is rich in Omega 6 and 9 fatty acids that help women cope well with post menstrual stress (PMS) and controls the release of hormones in the body. Sports Reach claim that continued use of this product is guaranteed to treat skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, and acne. It is said to be an excellent product to those who are allergic to food as it is supposed to lower the effects of the reaction.
Continue Your Brain Product Research: See Our Featured Product.
Advantages
Best for treating skin conditions such as acne and eczema
Supports hair and skin growth
Can be used as an anti-inflammatory in joint pains
Works well with women by reducing the PMS effects
Disadvantages
Does not reflect any changes in PMS symptoms in some women
May cause nausea or persistent headaches
Conclusion
The product is said to be good for both men and women. To some extent, there may be some noticeable changes in women with PMS while at the same time no data is given to clarify on specific effects on men given that there is supposed to some changes in the levels of hormone production when using this product.
Product
Star Rating
10yrs or More
Proven Product
Less Than
$6 Shipping
Testimonials
HCF Quality (4.8) (4.8)
Standard Process Soybean Lecithin (3.2) (3.2)
Addys Focus (3.0) (3.0)
Evening Primrose Oil (2.9) (2.9)
RestorAge (2.9) (2.9)
Infinimind (2.6) (2.6)
Explanation of Our Quality Comparison Table
×
The main issue with synthetic ingredients is that you don’t always get what you pay for. In reality, synthetic ingredients are well known for their low absorption, poor bioavailability, and the fact that they drain the body’s reserves of other minerals and vitamins (e.g., cofactors) required for proper absorption of other nutrients.
read more
×
At BrainReference we recognize that dietary supplements can be the source of many allergic responses either due to cross-contamination with high-allergen compounds during the manufacturing process or because they incorporate ingredients obtained from high-risk allergenic foods (milk, eggs, or fish).
read more
×
Companies with less integrity will use dangerous fillers as a “grease or lube” to aid in easier and faster production. Artificial dyes and colors are used to make supplements more appealing to the eye. Coatings are added to make capsules easier to swallow. How do these fillers impact your body and health?
read more
×
Independent testing labs are not associated with the producing company, ingredients supplier, the company whose name appears on the product, or with the consumer. This means independent testing labs have no vested interest in the result of the testing and are less likely to “dry lab” or manipulate test results for self-serving reasons.
read more
0 Evening Primrose Oil Reviews
Leave a Reply
Product rating
Have you tried this product?
Yes
No
United States
About
About Us
Contact Us
Medical Disclaimer
Advertising Disclosure
Receive New Brain Research Updates
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Copyright © 2012 BrainReference.com. All rights reserved.
BrainReference does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Research Library | Ingredients Library
Evening Primrose Oil or HCF?
Click Here to Find Out Menu
wpDiscuz