Pain and Arthritis
Home Top Stories Sports Entertainment Health News Business Personal Finance
Real Estate Business Finance Insurance Consulting Tax News Forum
Writers
Featured Articles
Pain and Arthritis RSS Feed to Pain / Arthritis News
Tylenol
Greek researchers say that regular use of Tylenol (acetaminophen or paracetamol) could reduce the risk of ovarian cancer by almost a third. The meta-analysis included more than 746,000 women over a six-year period. They found that 4,405 of the women in the eight major studies – from the USA, UK and Denmark – had ovarian cancer.
They looked at all of the studies that included paracetamol and ovarian cancer from 1966 to 2004. Dr Stefanos Bonovas said “Meta-analysis involves doing a large amount of research into what has been published, summarising the results and combining them using statistical methods. Analyzing a wide range studies can often throw new light on a problem and raise new research questions.” Bonovas is the lead researcher from the Greek Ministry of Health.
Migraine Headache – New Electrical Stimulator Held Against Head Relieves Symptoms – Magnetic Pulse May Prevent Headaches
Migraine Pain Relief medication
Researchers from the Ohio State University Medical Center say that a new experimental device that delivers a strong electrical current creating an intense magnetic field for about one millisecond against the patients head, could be an effective treatment for migraines. The device appears to be effective in eliminating nausea and vomiting when administered during the onset of the migraine.
The device, called TMS, interrupts the aura phase of the migraine, often described as electrical storms in the brain, before they lead to headaches. According to the researchers, these Auras are neural disturbances that signal the onset of migraine headaches. Migraine Headache – New Electrical Stimulator Held Against Head Relieves Symptoms – Magnetic Pulse May Prevent Headaches
Body Building and Weight Lifting– Cherry Juice could relieve Muscle Damage Pain
Cherries
According to a study published in the today’s online edition of the British Journal of Sports Medicine, drinking cherry juice may help prevent the pain in the repair of muscle caused by weight lifting.
Declan Connolly, associate professor of education and director of the human performance laboratory at the University of Vermont along with colleagues from New York’s Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma and Cornell University all worked together to test a specially made highly-concentrated tart cherry juice blend which they tested in a randomized, placebo-controlled study. The study had 14 male college students participate in this study. Body Building and Weight Lifting– Cherry Juice could relieve Muscle Damage Pain
Paralysis Treatment Using Stem Cells Around the Corner? John Hopkins Researchers Implant Embryonic Cells in Rats Treating Spinal Cord Injuries
Douglas Kerr
Amazing breakthrough in stem cell research may lead to a treatment for paralysis. This is extremely hopeful news for those suffering from spinal cord injuries. Researchers from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine have injected neurons near the spinal cords of rats that had been paralyzed by a virus, and found that the rats were able to “partially” move their legs.
The procedure is not as simple as just injecting stem cells into a paralyzed rat. The stem cells would just wonder aimlessly thought the body without the right mixture of growth factors and other chemicals (pharmacologic agents). This recipe of ingredients will entice the stem cells to form the appropriate connections.
The researchers said, "This is the first report, to our knowledge, of the anatomical and functional replacement of a motor neuron circuit within the adult, mammalian host.” They added “The results could help victims of paralysis regain motor function.” Paralysis Treatment Using Stem Cells Around the Corner? John Hopkins Researchers Implant Embryonic Cells in Rats Treating Spinal Cord Injuries
Migraines and Headaches - Have A Headache? See Your Dentist
teeth
Do you or someone you know suffer from chronic headaches or Migraines? Usually these people have seen a variety of different doctors, with little if any relief. Their symptoms are being treated, but the cause of the problem still persists. Ever thought about seeing your dentist for a migraine?
Well that is just one of the conditions that Neuromuscular dentistry is being used to treat. Neuromuscular dentistry is one of the new technologies available in dentistry today. It is different from regular dentistry in that it focuses on the muscles of the jaw and neck and how they are related to the teeth. Migraines and Headaches - Have A Headache? See Your Dentist
Increased Heart Risk Associated With Ibuprofen Use - BMJ Study Shows Risk of Some NSAIDs Similar to Vioxx For Heart Attacks
Health
Researchers have evaluated several studies and have concluded that some non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may pose a risk of cardiovascular events similar to Cox-2 Inhibitors like Vioxx. The study, published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ), combined all the available randomized data from 138 trials for form a conclusion. This meta-analysis included 140,000 patients.
The researchers from Italy and the UK reviewed the data and found (as expected) a correlation between Cox-2 inhibitors and an increased risk of vascular events. There was not enough data to determine whether these risks were dose dependent, or whether the risks might differ among aspirin and non-aspirin users. Increased Heart Risk Associated With Ibuprofen Use - BMJ Study Shows Risk of Some NSAIDs Similar to Vioxx For Heart Attacks
Treatment and Prevention of Shingles - Combination of Viral Drugs May Treat Shingles and New Drug May Prevent It - Shingles Symptoms
Shingles
Researchers say that a combination of antiviral drug medications will reduce nerve pain following a shingles infection. The study, led by Dianna Quan, MD and her colleagues at the University of Colorado and Health Sciences Center, Denver, administered the antiviral therapy to 15 patients (12 men and three women).
The participants received 10 milligrams of the medication acyclovir intravenously every eight hours for 14 days and then took three 1,000-milligram pills of the medication valacyclovir every day for one month. The patients were asked to rate their pain from a scale of zero to 10, both before and after the treatment, and than again a month after finishing the valacyclovir therapy. Treatment and Prevention of Shingles - Combination of Viral Drugs May Treat Shingles and New Drug May Prevent It - Shingles Symptoms
Common NSAID Pain Killers Increase Risk of Heart Failure Hospital Stays - Drugs Commonly Used for Osteo-Arthritis - Tylenol is Not a NSAID
Health
Researchers found that older patients with heart failure that used nonsteroidal anti-inflamatories (NSAIDs) regularly had an increased risk of being admitted to the hospital for heart failure for the first time. These NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac, indomethacin and meloxicam, and are commonly used to treat arthritis.
After taking into account other factors, heart failure patients between the age of 60 and 84 had a 30 percent increased chance of being admitted to the hospital for heart failure for the first time. They found that a previous diagnosis of heart failure, obesity, being a smoker, and a history of recent specialist appointments and inpatient stays were all associated with a greater chance of being admitted to hospital for heart failure for the first time. Common NSAID Pain Killers Increase Risk of Heart Failure Hospital Stays - Drugs Commonly Used for Osteo-Arthritis - Tylenol is Not a NSAID
Vioxx Danger May Start Early and Last Long After Discontinued Use - Merck Disagrees With Interpretation - FDA Pos. Permanent Damage
Vioxx
There appears to be more bad news for Merck & Co. after a Canadian Medical Association Journal said the drug may raise the risk of heart attack for patients who took Vioxx for less than 2 weeks. Investigative journalist Evelyn Pringle reports that the study published online this month, found that more than 25% of 239 patients who had heart attacks did so in less than 13 days of being on the drug.
New reports indicate that patients that took the drug may have a higher risk of death for years after taking the drug. A Reuters reports quotes Curt Furberg, a member of the US Food and Drug Administration's Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee, “It may be that Vioxx is causing permanent damage to the cardiovascular system, accelerating atherosclerosis or a sustained increase in blood pressure." Vioxx Danger May Start Early and Last Long After Discontinued Use - Merck Disagrees With Interpretation - FDA Pos. Permanent Damage
Migraine Headaches Causes and Treatments - Controlling Triggers
Health
The worst feeling in the world is when you get a migraine. Many chronic migraines are a symptom of depression. In this case, the body constantly feels tired and the headaches are to inform the person that they aren’t well and that they need to slow down a bit. In cases like these, if you are able to reduce your stress levels or reduce the pace of your daily life then the migraines will be become less frequent.
First what is a migraine? A migraine is different than a headache. A headache is slight discomfort and pressure that fills the cranium. A migraine is when you are in so much pain that you cannot function. It disrupts your entire life. It could be caused by many factors that include a nervous system glitch. Migraine Headaches Causes and Treatments - Controlling Triggers
Spinal Cord Injuries Repaired By New Type of Stem Cells - GDA ( Glial Precursor Derived Astrocytes) Work Better The Regular Stem Cells
Stem Cells
Researchers have found that transplanting a certain type of immature support cell from the central nervous system could regenerate more than 60% of the nerves that are damaged after a spinal cord injury. Amazingly, two thirds of the nerve fibers grew all the way through the injury sites eight days later.
This is more promising than previous research, according to the University of Rochester researchers in New York. Rats that received the cell transplants also walked normally after two weeks.
Researchers from the Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, N.Y., in collaboration with Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, focused on a new cell type that appears to have the capability of repairing the adult nervous system. Spinal Cord Injuries Repaired By New Type of Stem Cells - GDA ( Glial Precursor Derived Astrocytes) Work Better The Regular Stem Cells
After Surgery Listen to Music to Relieve Pain - Those Able to Pick the Songs Felt Better - Less Post Operative Analgesics Relievers
Pick your own Music
Patients who listened to music after surgery reported less pain than others, at the same time music also reduced the need for analgesics. According to a review in the Cochrane Library, the music’s pain-relieving benefits were found to be too small to result in fewer drug-related side effects.
The team, led by surgery Professor M Soledad Cepeda of Javeriana University School of Medicine in Bogota in Colombia, reviewed the results of 14 studies in which 489 surgery patients listened to pre-recorded music. The post-operative patients rated their pain intensity.
The largest difference in pain reduction between the music and non-music groups was 0.9, on a scale of zero to 10. The researchers say that the difference is significant, but small. After Surgery Listen to Music to Relieve Pain - Those Able to Pick the Songs Felt Better - Less Post Operative Analgesics Relievers
FDA Claims Marijuana Too Dangerous For Medical Purposes - This is Counter to Previous Government Findings - Studies Show Benefits for Nausea and Pain
Marijuana
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) claims that marijuana is too dangerous to be used as a medicine. According to the FDA, marijuana “met the three criteria for placement in Schedule I under 21 U.S.C. 812(b)(1) (e.g., marijuana has a high potential for abuse, has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and has a lack of accepted safety for use under medical supervision).”
This new FDA finding runs counter to the previous independent report that shows the medical benefits of marijuana. In 1997 the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) asked the Institute of Medicine to conduct a review of the scientific evidence to assess the potential health benefits and risks of marijuana and its constituent cannabinoids.
The Institute points out that marijuana users can develop a dependence on the drug. The FDA currently approves other drugs that cause dependency. But the Institute went on to report that there are some medical uses for marijuana. FDA Claims Marijuana Too Dangerous For Medical Purposes - This is Counter to Previous Government Findings - Studies Show Benefits for Nausea and Pain
Herbal Remedies for Pack Pain - Devils Claw White Willow Bark And Cayenne Effective Treatment Remedy for Lower Back Pain
Devils Claw
The Cochrane Collaboration reports that the herbal supplement Devil’s Claw given in a daily dose of 50mg (or 100 mg harpagoside), appears to reduce lower back pain more than a placebo. A 60mg dose can reduce pain about the same as a daily dose of 12.5mg Vioxx.
According to the report, Willow Bark, in a standardized daily dose of 120 mg and 240 mg of salicin reduced pain more than placebo; a standardized daily dose of 240 mg reduced pain about the same as a daily dose of 12.5 mg of Vioxx. Also, Cayenne was tested in plaster form, and reduced pain more than placebo and about the same as the homeopathic gel Spiroflor SLR. Adverse effects were reported, but appeared to be primarily confined to mild, transient gastrointestinal complaints.
The story was featured on Good Morning American and other ABC, NBC, CNN, and CBS news programs. Back pain is common, and about 35% of the population in any given month will experience non-specific lower back pain. This pain is defined as pain between the lowest rib and the bottom of the buttocks that is not caused by a serious problem like rheumatoid arthritis, infection, fracture, cancer or sciatica due to herniated disk or other pressure nerves. Herbal Remedies for Pack Pain - Devils Claw White Willow Bark And Cayenne Effective Treatment Remedy for Lower Back Pain
Combination of Two Drugs Work Best On Migraine Headaches – Combine Sumatriptan and Naproxen – Trexima is Planned Brand Name
Migraines
A combination of sumatriptan and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicine, naproxen sodium, the active ingredient in Aleve, work better than either drug taken separately. Harvard Scientists say that this suggests there are two separate brain pathways involved in triggering migraines.
The research involved two studies, combining more than 2,800 migraine sufferers. Within two hours after taking the combination drug, 65 percent said their migraine pain was relieved, compared with 55 percent on sumatriptan alone and 44 percent of that on naproxen.
The data was presented at the 58th Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Neurology (AAN). Data from one “long term” study over one year prompted researchers to say that combining the two drugs into a single tablet was well tolerated. The single tablet is currently under review by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under the proposed brand name Trexima. Combination of Two Drugs Work Best On Migraine Headaches – Combine Sumatriptan and Naproxen – Trexima is Planned Brand Name
Brain Cells From Adults Repair Spinal Cord Injury in Mice - Neural Precursor Cells Allowed Mice To Walk Within Two Weeks of Injury
Brain Stem Cells
Scientists from Canada have found that spinal cord paralysis in rats can be eased / repaired by transplanting brain cells taken from the adult mouse. It may be possible to take brain cells from patients with spinal cord injuries and then transplanting them back into themselves as a treatment.
Earlier studies have shown improvement in paralyzed lab animals with transplanted embryonic stem cells. The new research is important because the cells were taken from adult animals rather then embryos. Also, the positive effects were produced even two weeks after the injury.
Of course these stem cells are not as versatile as embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells can be used to repair more organs. But these brain cells appear to be effective in treating spinal cord injuries. Brain Cells From Adults Repair Spinal Cord Injury in Mice - Neural Precursor Cells Allowed Mice To Walk Within Two Weeks of Injury
Artificial Knee Joint Replacement and Hip Replacement Surgery will possibly have Dramatic Increase in Demand in next 20 Years
Artificial Knee Joint
According to a recent study, there will be an estimated 3.48 million knee replacements will be needed by 2030. This is approximately a 673 percent increase compared to today’s procedures. Artificial hip replacements are estimated to increase 174 percent up to 572,000 per year in 2030.
A recent report presented at the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeon’s annual meeting in Chicago by Steven M. Kurtz who is with a Philadelphia-based engineering and scientific consulting firm said that there is a dramatic increase in the demand for artificial joints for a number of reasons.
The cause for the dramatic increase for joint replacement surgeries may be because more people are having wear and tear on joints caused by osteoarthritis. There are also more people living longer as well as more people overweight. Because the technology and procedure of artificial joints help to relieve pain and help people regain their movement more people are willing to undergo the procedure. Artificial Knee Joint Replacement and Hip Replacement Surgery will possibly have Dramatic Increase in Demand in next 20 Years
New Methods For Screening Drugs Could Help Chronic Pain Sufferers - New Understanding How Menthol Affects Ion Channels in Transfer Pain Signals
Ardem Patapoutian
New research has found a novel method that could lead to potential advances in pain therapy. New methodologies could help scientists understand how molecules, like menthol, affect the function of proteins that form ion tunnels found in the cell membrane. These tunnels form a channel that allows specific ions to pass or move across the membrane.
The Director of the Research, Ardem Patapoutian, said “"Because our ability to sense temperature is closely linked to our ability to sense pain, it is not surprising that the misregulation of temperature-activated ion channels can result in chronic pain syndromes." Patapoutian is an associate professor at Scripps Research and member of GNF. He went on to say “In fact, some of these ion channels are considered targets to treat chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain indications. Understanding how small molecules such as menthol affect the function of these proteins could be crucial in designing future drugs that can either activate or block them." New Methods For Screening Drugs Could Help Chronic Pain Sufferers - New Understanding How Menthol Affects Ion Channels in Transfer Pain Signals
Obesity Risk – Fat causes Killer Inflammation Response in the Obese and Overweight
Fat Cells
Multiple research studies are coming to the same conclusion that excess body fat causes an inflammation response in their body that can be deadly.
A recent report in the International Journal of Obesity by researchers from the University of Warwick Medical School found that the biggest health risk to overweight and obese people is the killer inflammation response created from the excess body fat.
Professor F.P. Cappuccio and Dr. M.A. Miller looked at 3 different ethnic groups that were overweight or obese. They measured the Body Mass Index (BMI) and the participant’s Waist-Hip Ratio (WHR) to determine the amount of body fat a person was carrying. Obesity Risk – Fat causes Killer Inflammation Response in the Obese and Overweight
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Hearing Loss may be Unrelated
Ear
The Mayo Clinic completed a study recently that found that people with Rheumatoid arthritis do not have an increased risk of hearing loss compared to the general population. This contrasts previous research that found a link between rheumatoid arthritis and hearing problems. This research report will be presented today at the American Auditory Society annual meeting in Scottsdale, Arizona.
"This is very good news for rheumatoid arthritis patients," said Eric Matteson, M.D., Mayo Clinic rheumatologist and the senior study researcher. "Patients with rheumatoid arthritis actually have preserved hearing and are no more susceptible to hearing loss than those who do not have the disease; there is no measurable difference with standard testing. This was surprising. I expected to see more hearing loss in rheumatoid arthritis patients." Rheumatoid Arthritis and Hearing Loss may be Unrelated
Some Birth Control Pills Less Likely to Cause Headaches – Study Links Oral Contraceptives to Migraine and non-Migraine Headaches
Mircette Contraceptives
An article in the journal Neurology indicates that there may be a link between birth control pills and headaches. Women on birth control pills are 40 percent more likely to suffer from migraines, and 20 percent more likely to suffer from non-migraine headaches.
According to a recent report on ABC News, birth control pills can boost estrogen levels up to four times their normal levels. The estrogen levels drop fast near menstruation.
The report said that physicians could prescribe women an estrogen patch to be used two or three days before their period so that levels don’t drop so steeply. This may help explain why women are more susceptible to migraines than men, although the researchers could not find a link between the amount of hormones contained in the pills and headache risk. Some Birth Control Pills Less Likely to Cause Headaches – Study Links Oral Contraceptives to Migraine and non-Migraine Headaches
Pfizer Disputes New Zealand Celebrex Heart Attack Link Study - Merck & Co Wins Second Vioxx Lawsuit
Celebrex
A New Zealand study found that People taking Celebrex were twice as likely to suffer a heart attack as those using other pain relief treatments. A similar drug, Merck & Company’s Vioxx, had been removed from the market in September 2004 because of safety concerns.
The research, conducted by the New Zealand Medical Research Institute, entailed reviewing six studies of 12,780 patients. The researchers wanted to determine if the problems associated with Vioxx were also associated with Celebrex.
Both Vioxx and Celebrex are cox-2 inhibitors, commonly prescribed for treating arthritis pain. The study found that there was a 1.88-fold increased risk of heart attack with Celebrex, compared with the other arthritis treatments. Pfizer Disputes New Zealand Celebrex Heart Attack Link Study - Merck & Co Wins Second Vioxx Lawsuit
Fake or Sham Acupuncture Treatment For Migraines Work as Well as the Real Therapy or Drugs – Research from Germany
Acupuncture Therapy
Researchers from Germany say that acupuncture works as well as standard drugs for migraines. Apparently placement of the acupuncture needles is not important either. The researchers compared fake acupuncture treatments with drugs and real traditional acupuncture.
The fake or so called “sham” acupuncture involved placing the fine needles in places that were not traditionally used by therapists. Reuters reported that Dr. Hans-Christoph Diener said “This tells us that Chinese acupuncture is not a very specific treatment”, since the sham acupuncture worked just as well.
The researchers believe that acupuncture is a viable treatment for migraines. Dr. Diener went on to say “The main finding is that Chinese acupuncture is as effective as drug treatment for the prophylaxis of migraine.” Fake or Sham Acupuncture Treatment For Migraines Work as Well as the Real Therapy or Drugs – Research from Germany
UCLA Paralysis Study Found No Difference in Therapies - Partially Paralyzed Patients Saw No Extra Benefit in Weight-Supported Treadmill Compared to Conventional Methods
Robomedica Treadmill
UCLA researchers have found that both body weight-supported treadmill training was just as effective as traditional rehabilitation for restoring movement in patients that are partially paralyzed. The study also found that high numbers from both treatment groups achieved functional walking speeds within six months.
The researchers expected the body weight-supported treadmill treatment to be superior. But the study author, Dr. Bruce H. Dobkin, said “we found no significant difference” in the treatments. Dr. Dobkin is professor of neurology and medical director of the Neurologic Rehabilitation and Research Program at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.
The researchers analyzed 117 individuals who had a partial spinal cord injury within the previous 8 weeks. They randomly selected 58 patients to receive body weight-supported treadmill training, while the other 59 patients received “conventional” over-ground mobility therapy. UCLA Paralysis Study Found No Difference in Therapies - Partially Paralyzed Patients Saw No Extra Benefit in Weight-Supported Treadmill Compared to Conventional Methods
Rheumatoid Arthritis Inflammation Associated with Lymphoma Cancer - Drug Treatments Did Not Increase Risk of Epstein Bar Virus Positive Lymphoma
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Scientists have known about a link between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and a higher risk of lymphoma for sometime. They were unsure whether it was due to the drugs or the condition. Now it appears the culprit is the condition. A study associates chronic, severe inflammation with the increased risk of cancer.
Swedish researchers have conducted the largest investigation concerning the link between RA and lymphoma. The statistical analysis revealed risk ratios for lymphoma for three different levels of overall disease activity. They assessed RA according to the duration and how swollen and tender joint were. Rheumatoid Arthritis Inflammation Associated with Lymphoma Cancer - Drug Treatments Did Not Increase Risk of Epstein Bar Virus Positive Lymphoma
Embryonic Stem Cell Treatments Show Promise for Degenerative Diseases and Paralysis - Alzheimer's Parkinson's Cancer Heart Disease and More
Embryonic Stem Cells
Stem cell research and treatment may yield extraordinary results for ailments including heart disease, Parkinson’s disease, cancer and diabetes. Embryonic stem cells also show promise for people that are paralyzed.
The CBS News program 60 minutes ran a segment on the subject Sunday night. Ed Bradley’s report included an interview with Dr. Hans Keirstead, a 38-year-old biologist, who said he is ready to try a stem cell procedure on people paralyzed by spinal cord injuries. The doctor’s earlier trial showed success in treating a laboratory rat whose hind legs were completely paralyzed.
Amazingly, after injecting the rat with human embryonic stem cells, the paralyzed rat was able to move its hind legs. Dr. Keirstead told Mr. Bradley that “If it does the same thing in humans, I think we’ve hit something here that’s gonna be truly remarkable." He hopes to begin clinical trials on patients that have recently been paralyzed first. Embryonic Stem Cell Treatments Show Promise for Degenerative Diseases and Paralysis - Alzheimer's Parkinson's Cancer Heart Disease and More
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Autoimmune Diseases new Understanding Why Gold works for Treatment
Gold Bars
Researchers from the Harvard Medical School found out why special forms of gold, platinum and other types of medicinal metals help treat autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. They found that these metal help to strip away bacteria and virus particles from a key immune system protein. The findings are reported in the February 27th issue of Nature Chemical Biology.
Gold has been used to treat autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis for the past 75 years. Gold was first used in 1890 by a German doctor named Robert Koch who found that it was able to kill the bacteria that caused tuberculosis. In the 1930’s there was belief that rheumatoid arthritis and tuberculosis were related and a French doctor, Jacques Forestier, began treating his rheumatoid arthritis patients with gold. The gold worked and was used for many years, but is being phased out in the last few years because of serious side effects. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Autoimmune Diseases new Understanding Why Gold works for Treatment
Viagra May Possible Treatment for Crohn’s – Weak Immune System To Blame for Disease
Crohn's Affected Areas
New research has found a possible cause for Crohn’s Disease which may lead to a treatment. The researchers found that when patients with Crohn's were injected with harmless bacteria, their body showed a reduced blood flow. Normally blood flow would increase in response to the bacteria.
Anthony Segal, from the University College London in the United Kingdom, believes “Viagra may be successful in correcting the low blood flow and may be helpful in the treatment of the disease.” The Scientists believe that the reduced blood flow along with low levels of white blood cells could lead to “the persistence of bacteria and other debris in the tissue.” Viagra May Possible Treatment for Crohn’s – Weak Immune System To Blame for Disease
Natural Pain Remedies won't kill you with side effects - Alternative Medicines
Dr. Jutkowitz Endorcement
A health Journalist and author recently announced that there are no safe over-the-counter (OTC) pain relievers. Virtually every home medicine cabinet in America has a bottle of pain-relieving pills that can cause serious problems, even when properly used. Millions of Americans live with chronic pain and rely upon over-the-counter pain relievers to alleviate discomfort mostly caused by joint, nerve or headache pain.
To the shock of most Americans, they have been relying on unsafe pain remedies and paying a steep price from the side effects associated with these drugs. Many Americans are turning to natural pain remedies and may never return to aspirin, ibuprofen, acetaminophen or COX-2 inhibitors that hospitalize hundreds of thousands and cause thousands of needless deaths annually. Natural Pain Remedies won't kill you with side effects - Alternative Medicines
Glucosamine Chondroitin Sulfate Supplements Don't Relieve Pain in People with Minor Knee Joint Osteoarthritis Pain
Popular Brand
Not all participants in a recent study benefited from the popular dietary supplement combination of glucosamine plus chondroitin sulfate. Although, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, patients with moderate-to-severe pain showed significant relief with the supplement.
The data was extrapolated from the Glucosamine/chondroitin Arthritis Intervention Trial (GAIT). Elias Zerhouni, M.D. said “GAIT is another example of NIH's commitment to exploring the potential of complementary and alternative medicine to prevent and treat disease in a manner that is fair, unbiased, and scientifically rigorous.” Elias is the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The study was conducted at 16 sites across the country over a 4 year period.
The GAIT project enrolled 1,600 participants with documented osteoarthritis of the knee. These participants were randomly assigned to receive one of five treatments daily for 24 weeks. Some were assigned glucosamine alone (1500 mg), chondroitin sulfate alone (1200 mg), glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate combined (same doses), a placebo, or celecoxib (200 mg). Glucosamine Chondroitin Sulfate Supplements Don't Relieve Pain in People with Minor Knee Joint Osteoarthritis Pain
Acupressure more effective than Physical Therapy for treating Lower Back Pain
Acupressure Book
A randomized controlled trial first published on the online in the British Medical Journal, found that Acupressure of the thumbs and fingertips seemed to be more beneficial at reducing lower back pain compared to physical therapy.
Acupressure is a technique that many chiropractors use along with acupuncture. Acupressure is applying pressure to certain parts of the body; in this case it was the fingertips and thumbs used for pain reduction in the lower back. Acupuncture is similar except needles are used to stimulate the nervous system. In this study the researchers focused on Acupressure compared to physical therapy.
Many people will have lower back pain at some time in their life, with some people suffering the pain on a regular basis. The researchers from Taiwan found 129 patients that suffered chronic lower back pain from an orthopedic clinic. The patients were divided randomly to two different groups. The acupressure group consisting of 64 patients received a total of six sessions. The remaining 65 patients were given physical therapy instead. The duration of the study was six months. Acupressure more effective than Physical Therapy for treating Lower Back Pain
Massage Therapy
Therapy
What was once considered luxury is quickly coming to be seen a serious medical aid, as 3,000 years of research and practice have demonstrated. Massage therapy is what it is, and while the Eastern worlds have turned this art into health-beneficial techniques, it is only recently that the western world has come to embrace it, and so happily realize that massage is not only feels pleasant, but can also ease pain and prevent disease.
The techniques used in massage therapy vary widely, and any one massage therapist will be trained in a few, if not a wide array, of the many existing techniques. Massage therapy, a combination of pressing, kneading and stroking various parts of the body, does much more than relieve stress, which is one of its most obvious and immediate benefits.
Fortunately, stress relief is just the tip of the iceberg of massage’s health benefits, and as doctors have come to realize this, massage therapy has become a common sight at the doctor’s office ­ from chiropractor to physical therapist. Massage therapy penetrates circulation and lymph nodes, thus improving blood flow and the effective removal of wastes from the body. Better circulation and a more efficient lymphatic system will improve skin as well, as surface capillaries will be stimulated, and urea will be leaving the body more efficiently, giving the skin a break. Massage Therapy
Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients may Benefit from using Statin Drugs
fluvastatin
Researchers from Japan have found that patients with rheumatoid arthritis may benefit from use of statin drugs. These drugs have been used to lower cholesterol, but also may benefit arthritis sufferers because of their role in inflammation and other cellular processes, including the immune response.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes the proliferation of synovial tissue, which lines the joints. Statins have been shown to cause apoptosis in both normal cells and tumor cells. Apoptosis is another word for cell death. Statins may induce apoptosis in synovial cells of patients with RA.
The study published in the February 2006 issue of the Arthritis & Rheumatism journal, examines whether statins are able to induce apoptosis in synovial cells. This may prove to be “novel way of treating the disease.” Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients may Benefit from using Statin Drugs
Arthritis Damaged Cartilage may be treated with Stem Cells
Cartilage in a joint (in red)
A study published in the February 2006 issue of Arthritis & Rheumatism found that rats treated with muscle-derived stem cells helped to repair torn cartilage.
Articular cartilage which is the cartilage found at the ends of bones where they meet at a joint can become damaged from injury or illness. At this time there is no treatment to restore and repair completely this type of injured cartilage. The researcher’s looked further into the possibility of stem cells that came from muscles instead of bone marrow. The researchers on this study took the muscle-derived stem cells (MDSCs) with a therapeutic protein to see if the articular cartilage could be repaired in rats. Arthritis Damaged Cartilage may be treated with Stem Cells
Vertebroplasty Back Pain Treatment may Cause Breaks near Fractured Vertebrae
Fractured Vertebrae
Vertebroplasty is a new procedure that is used to treat pain caused by compression fractures of the spine. This is usually associated with osteoporosis or similar conditions. New research from the Mayo Clinic finds that although the treatment is successful in treating one fracture it may cause others.
The treatment has only been used with patients with chronic pain that will not go away due to a fracture. Each year 700,000 people will suffer an injury to the spine. The fracture can occur from simple movements such as bending over to tie your shoe or turning in bed. The pain will go away on its own in four weeks in four out five people.
When the patient’s bones are too weak due to osteoporosis, surgery may not be an option. Vertebroplasty is the only available treatment option for patients in this condition. Also vertebroplasty is not appropriate for patients with back pain due to ligament injuries, joint disease or narrowing of the spinal canal. It involves injecting bone cement into fractured vertebrae. Vertebroplasty Back Pain Treatment may Cause Breaks near Fractured Vertebrae
Neck Pain Treatments including New Surgery Technique
Neck X-ray
Neck pain is very common and one out of two people will experience it at some point in their lives. In severe cases surgery may be required to treat a pinched nerve. The recovery from this procedure can be very difficult.
Dr. Frank Phillips of the Rush University Medical Center in Chicago has begun implanting an artificial disc made of the same metal and plastics used in hip and knee replacements. Right now the procedure is in the clinical trial stages, but WABC in New York reported that Dennis Kistulinec had the procedure done and does not suffer any more pain.
According to the report Kistulinec is not only back to work, he's back lifting weights just two months after the surgery. Before the surgery he had difficulty picking up his kids or loading groceries in the car. Neck Pain Treatments including New Surgery Technique
Magnet Therapy needs better research to Prove Benefits
Magnetic Insoles
Scientists reported in this week’s British Medical Journal that magnetic devices including bracelets, insoles, wrist and knee bands, back and neck braces, and pillows and mattresses may not be worth the money.
Professors Leonard Finegold and Bruce Flamm estimate that there is over 1 billion dollars spent globally on these kinds of magnetic devices each year. They feel that the studies that are currently out on magnet therapy were not well done. It would be hard to have blind study in proving the effectiveness of the treatment. They also warn that if there is pain, there could be an underlying major condition that may go left untreated. Magnet Therapy needs better research to Prove Benefits
PAD Peripheral Artery Disease Progression Slowed by Walking
Walking benefits
A new study indicates that people with peripheral artery disease (PAD) can slow the disease progression and improve their walking ability by walking for exercise at least three times per week. Sufferers of PAD can suffer leg pain that is caused by decreased blood blow in the arteries.
PAD is caused by blockages to the arteries that supply blood to the legs. Certain risk factors are associated with this disease including smoking, diabetes, high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol. The condition gets more profound as we age.
This study conducted at the Northwestern University in Chicago included 417 women and men. The researchers found that those who walked three or more times per week had a significantly smaller average decline in walking speed and distance when compared to those that walked only once or twice a week. PAD Peripheral Artery Disease Progression Slowed by Walking
Comment on this Article at our Forum
Submit your own Article
Pain and Arthritis Special Topic
RSS Feed to Pain / Arthritis News
RSS Feed to our health News
RSS Feed to all of our News
Pain
Best Syndication
Books about Pain
Keywords and misspellings: pane reumatoid rhumatoid rhumatoidal rheumatoidal arthritis arthrites pain
Web BestSyndication.com
About Contact site map
Copyright 2005 Best Syndication Last Updated Sunday, July 11, 2010 01:18 AM