Arthritis Pain Relief Drugs: Risks and Benefits | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
Healthy Skin
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Error
Please try again later.
Save
top
Everyday Health Arthritis
Arthritis Pain Relief Drugs: Risks and Benefits
Learn about the side effects of common arthritis medications so you can decide which ones are right for you.
By Beth W. Orenstein
Medically Reviewed by Cynthia Haines, MD
Last Updated: 9/1/2015
Don't Miss This
6 Ways to Manage Ankylosing Spondylitis at Work
Ankylosing Spondylitis: Who Needs Surgery?
%title
Sign Up for Our Living with Chronic Pain Newsletter
Thanks for signing up! You might also like these other newsletters:
Sign up for more FREE Everyday Health newsletters.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Sign up
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Oops! Please select a newsletter
We respect your privacy.
Prescription and over-the-counter medications can help relieve pain, but some could have side effects like constipation, nausea, or vomiting.
Christopher Ewing/Thinkstock
Key Takeaways
With relief can come risks. Carefully consider the many over-the-counter and prescription medications that can help relieve pain.
Work closely with your healthcare team to determine which medications reduce your pain with the fewest side effects.
Arthritis pain can stop you in your tracks. Fortunately, doctors can prescribe or recommend a number of medications to help you find relief from joint pain, stiffness, and swelling.
But with the good comes the potential bad: Even over-the-counter (OTC) arthritis treatments can have side effects. It is important to know both the benefits and the risks associated with each medication to determine which ones are right for you.
Arthritis Drugs: Treatment and Side Effects
Acetaminophen. One of the most commonly used pain relievers, it’s usually safe for people who can’t take other medications because they have allergies or stomach problems. But because acetaminophen treats pain and not inflammation, which is a key component in arthritis pain, it might be less effective in some people. When arthritis pain is severe and acetaminophen alone doesn’t help, you may need a prescription acetaminophen that also contains an opioid.
Side effects vary, depending on what kind of acetaminophen product you are taking:
Non-prescription acetaminophen (Anacin, Excedrin, Panadol, Tylenol, Tylenol Arthritis). Usually there are no side effects, if taken as directed; if you take more than suggested, you risk liver damage. In 2011, after restrictions were imposed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to reduce this risk, the maker of Tylenol announced new dosing instructions, lowering the maximum daily dose from 4,000 milligrams (mg) to 3,000 mg.
Also, be careful if you are taking other drugs, including OTC cough and cold products; they may contain acetaminophen as well and push you over the daily recommended maximum. “Acetaminophen is hidden in a lot of products, more than you think,” says Matthew Grissinger, RPh, director of Error Reporting Programs at the Institute for Safe Medicine Practices in Horsham, Pennsylvania, and manager of Medication Safety Analysis for the Pennsylvania Patient Safety Authority.
Prescription-strength acetaminophen combinations (such as acetaminophen with codeine). These can cause constipation, dizziness, lightheadedness, nausea, and vomiting. The risks of these side effects increase as the dosage increases. Acetaminophen with codeine also can cause breathing to slow. These side effects are not from the acetaminophen content, but the opioid that it is combined with, such as codeine, oxycodone, or hydrocodone, Grissinger says.
Prescription-strength and non-prescription non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). When acetaminophen doesn’t work, doctors often prescribe an NSAID at the lowest dose that will be effective. Common NSAIDs sold OTC include aspirin, Advil and Motrin (ibuprofen) and Aleve (naproxen). Prescription versions are also available. NSAIDs relieve pain and reduce inflammation, but the disadvantage is that they may have more side effects, especially with prolonged use. They can cause stomach upset, which is why doctors recommend they be taken with food. Prolonged use may also cause stomach bleeding and kidney damage, warns the FDA.
RELATED: 5 Top Arthritis Questions Patients Ask a Rheumatologist
NSAIDs other than aspirin also increase the risk for heart attack and stroke, according to the FDA. In July 2015, the agency reported that these risks were higher than originally thought. They increase with the strength of the dose and the length of time you take these medications, and can occur as early as the first weeks of using an NSAID. The risks are higher for people who already have heart disease or risk factors for heart disease before starting on an NSAID, but can occur in anyone. The FDA ordered drug manufacturers to strengthen their warning labels on NSAIDs to reflect these findings.
Complicating the situation, it can be difficult to separate a medication effect from underlying disease, says Hayes Wilson, MD, of Piedmont Rheumatology Consultants in Georgia. Rheumatoid arthritis in particular is an independent risk factor for heart disease. “Many patients who take NSAIDs daily have more severe disease so, at least in a portion of daily NSAIDs users, the cardiac risk may not be directly related to NSAIDs use,” Dr. Wilson says.
If traditional NSAIDs upset your stomach or do little to relieve your pain, a type of NSAID known as COX-2 inhibitors (Celebrex) may be a good option if you aren’t at risk for heart disease, according to recommendations published in BMC Medicine in March 2015 by the NSAID International Consensus Group. Kidney damage is still a risk of COX-2 inhibitors, though. Also, prescription strength NSAIDs must now carry the same warning of increased risk for heart attack and stroke as OTC NSAIDs, according to the FDA. COX-2 inhibitors should be taken only at the lowest dose needed to relieve your pain.
Taking the lowest possible effective dose of traditional NSAIDs and COX-2 inhibitors may help people avoid any toxic gastrointestinal and cardiovascular effects, according to an article published in July 2015 in the journal Expert Opinion on Drug Safety.
While kidney and liver damage are possible, most of the side effects commonly seen in patients taking these medications generally are relatively minor, Wilson says.
Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). DMARDs are often prescribed for inflammatory types of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis. They not only reduce pain, but also help slow damage from these diseases. Some are older drugs, like Trexall (methotrexate) and Azulfidine (sulfasalazine). Newer ones include the biologics such as Remicade (infliximab), Humira (adalimumab), and Enbrel (etanercept), which target a substance called tumor necrosis factor (TNF), responsible for the destruction of the joints, according to the American College of Rheumatology. DMARDs come with potential side effects such as an increased risk for serious infections and liver damage.
Corticosteroids. Corticosteroids, such as prednisone, can work well at relieving inflammation caused by arthritis. They are taken orally or injected into an inflamed joint. But, even when they are carefully administered and monitored, the side effects of corticosteroids can be serious and can include high blood sugar levels, greater susceptibility to illness, thinning of the skin, and weight gain. High doses can also cause changes in heartbeat. Insomnia is another common problem for some people, although taking the medication in the morning and avoiding caffeine can help.
When you take corticosteroids, your body’s adrenal glands lower their production of natural cortisol, a hormone responsible for regulating many of the body's functions, including blood pressure. If you abruptly stop taking steroids, your body may not have enough cortisol and could go into adrenal crisis, which is similar to shock, Wilson says. Signs of shock include sweating, chills, lightheadedness, weakness, and loss of consciousness.
Arthritis Pain Relief: Individualized From Person to Person
People with arthritis must work closely with their general practitioner, rheumatologist, and pharmacist to develop a treatment plan that controls their pain and reduces the chance of developing serious complications, Wilson says. Depending on your type of joint pain, your doctor may suggest additional medication options, he says.
“Also, your doctor or pharmacist needs to know what else you are taking,” Dr. Grissinger says. That includes prescription medications, OTC medications, and herbal medications or supplements because "some may interfere or add to the effect of another drug," he says. "Doctors also need to know of any past reactions you’ve had from any other drug.”
Painkiller Abuse: Spotting the Warning Signs
In addition to side effects, it’s possible to become addicted to painkillers. You may find that you need to take more pain pills to get the same relief or that you're taking the drugs in ways other than prescribed.
Signs of abuse include “shopping” for more doctors who will prescribe pain pills and visiting different pharmacies so that no one knows how many you’re taking, according to the National Institute of Drug Abuse.
Additional warning signs of misuse or abuse of prescription drugs, according to the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, include:
Wanting to stop, but not being able to
Putting drugs before your other responsibilities and day-to-day activities
Acting irritable or exhibiting personality changes
Not bathing or caring for yourself properly
If you are abusing prescription pain pills and stop taking them on your own, you may experience chills, diarrhea, muscle pain, and insomnia. Talk to your doctor about the safest way to break the habit.
The Latest in Arthritis
Arthritis
FDA Approves Humira Biosimilar for Treatment of Conditions Including RA, Psoriasis, and Crohn’s
Drug will not be available on the U.S. market until 2023, due to contracting agreement between manufacturers.
Arthritis
Poor Sleep Linked to Less Exercise in People With Arthritis
A lack of physical activity correlates with restless sleep in people living with arthritis, a study finds.
Arthritis
May Is Arthritis Awareness Month: Mark It With the ABCs
Arthritis
The 10 Best Arthritis Blogs to Keep You (and Your Body) Moving
These blogs by a sex educator, a college sophomore, and a three-time book author will help you stay positive while living with the joint condition.
Arthritis
Arthritis Can Strike Children
In these young patients, joint inflammation caused by overactive immune system.
Arthritis
Can Smartphone Use Bring on Carpal Tunnel Syndrome?
Maybe, especially for folks who spend more than 5 hours a day on their devices, study says.
Arthritis
Pitching Through RA Pain: Emil’s Story
Eventually, baseball player Emil DeAndreis stopped hiding his rheumatoid arthritis symptoms, got treatment, and embraced a new life.
Arthritis
1 in 4 U.S. Adults Disabled by Arthritis: CDC
Agency recommends exercise, not opioids, to control pain, stiffness.
Arthritis
Will 'Unloading' Shoes Help Your Arthritic Knees?
Study puts specially designed footwear to the test.
Arthritis
How to Stay Positive With Arthritis
Having arthritis can be a real downer. But there are ways brighten your outlook, even if all you want to do is go back to bed.
Arthritis
10 Arthritis Blogs We Can't Stop Reading
Whether you're trying to make sense of your diagnosis, choosing a treatment plan, or want to feel like you’re part of a like-minded group, there's a b...
Arthritis
6 Diet Tricks for Arthritis Relief
If you have arthritis, the foods you eat (or avoid) may help you feel better.
Arthritis
All About Arthritis
Most people think of arthritis as a condition that strikes older people, but different types of arthritis affect people of all ages.
Arthritis
Understanding Primary and Secondary Osteoarthritis
The cause of your osteoarthritis will determine what type you have.
Arthritis
8 Smart Makeup Tricks for Women With Arthritis
Here's how to put your best face forward, even when arthritis is flaring.
Arthritis
How Music Therapy Helps Relieve Arthritis Pain
Music can help you relax and distract you from thinking about what hurts.
Arthritis
Cracking Knuckles Sets Off 'Fireworks' on Ultrasound
Bright flash shows up as gas bubble forms in joints, researchers report.
Arthritis
13 Arthritis Pain Relief Tips for Winter Weather
Dress warmly, work out inside, and get enough vitamin D. These are some of the ways you can get arthritis pain relief despite the bone-chilling cold o...
Arthritis
The Real Monthly Cost of Arthritis Medication
From $5 to $6,660 per month, the price to treat arthritis can vary wildly. Six people explain what it really costs them, and how they save on their me...
Arthritis
9 Arthritis Pain Relief Strategies From Those Who Know
Five people living with arthritis share their best pain relief tips, ranging from yoga to aromatherapy.
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.