Dr Rajeshwar Singh | Remedies for Scar
Home
Research
MyBlog
Hypothesis
Gallery
e-Resources
e-Book
Expertise
Contact
Remedies for Scar
You are here: Home / Remedies for Scar
When skin is injured, fibrous tissue, known as scar tissue, forms over the wound to repair and protect it. This leads to the formation of scar.
You can get a scar on your skin due to accidents, insect bites, scrapes, acne, burns, chickenpox, piercings, surgical cuts and vaccinations.
Scars come in all shapes and sizes, and can affect your appearance and make you self-conscious.
The human body is capable of taking care of scars and they tend to get lighter with time. To speed up healing, you can try some home remedies. The focus of scar removal remedies is to support effective cell growth, minimize scar tissue and create healthy skin.
Bear in mind that there is no procedure yet that can make a scar disappear completely. Treatments and remedies can only make it less noticeable. Before applying the home remedies, make sure to cleanse the affected area thoroughly.
Be patient and persistent, as it may take some time depending upon the shape, size and type of scar. In addition, not every scar removal remedy will work for everyone.
Here are the remedies for scar removal.
Aloe Vera
Aloe vera is a natural scar removal remedy due to its anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties.
It works as a natural emollient to help repair damaged skin and promote growth of healthy skin. In addition, it will improve your skin texture.
Peel the outer green cover off an aloe vera leaf and scoop out the gel-like substance.
Apply the gel on your scar and massage in circular motions.
Leave it on for about 30 minutes, then wash it off.
Apply aloe vera gel twice daily.
Note: Do not apply aloe vera gel on open wounds.
Coconut Oil
Coconut oil is another excellent ingredient that can help fade scars. The vitamin E, an antioxidant, in coconut oil accelerates the healing time and prevents new scars from forming. In addition, the lauric, caprylic and capric acids found in coconut oil stimulate collagen production, promote healing of damaged skin and reverse free-radical damage.
Heat some extra-virgin coconut oil to liquefy it.
Put the warm oil on your palm and massage it onto the affected area for 5 to 10 minutes.
Leave it on for at least 1 hour so that the skin absorbs the oil.
For best results, repeat 2 to 4 times a day.
Vitamin E Oil
Vitamin E oil is an effective antioxidant that can help fade scars. Its moisturizing property hydrates the skin and helps repair damaged tissue and improve the appearance of scars.
Open some vitamin E capsules to get the oil.
Smear the oil onto the scar and massage gently for 10 minutes.
Leave it on for about 15 to 20 minutes, then wash it off with warm water.
Do this several times a day.
Note: Test this on a small patch of skin first, as vitamin E oil may cause an allergic reaction in some people.
Olive Oil
Olive oil is another effective natural scar removal treatment. It is rich in vitamin E and helps keep the skin soft and moisturized. This in turn promotes the healing of damaged skin. For best results, use extra-virgin olive oil.
Apply some warm extra-virgin olive oil to the affected area and massage using small, circular motions. Wait 30 minutes, then wipe off the oil with a clean cloth. You can also leave the oil on your skin overnight.
Another option is to mix a little lavender oil in some extra-virgin olive oil, apply it on the affected area and massage gently for a few minutes. Leave it on for 20 to 30 minutes, then rinse it off with lukewarm water.
Repeat either of these remedies several times a day until you get the desired result.
Lemon
Lemon contains alpha hydroxy acids, which have healing properties that can help treat scars of all types. Lemon can remove dead skin cells, promote the growth of new skin cells and improve skin elasticity. The vitamin C in lemon also helps regenerate and repair damaged skin. In addition, the bleaching property of lemon helps lighten scars.
Apply some lemon juice on the affected area. Those who have sensitive skin can dilute the lemon juice with equal amounts of rose water or vitamin E oil and then apply it on the scar.
Wait 10 minutes, then rinse it off with warm water.
Repeat once daily until the scar fades.
Note: As lemon can make your skin photosensitive, avoid going out in the sun immediately after use and be sure to use sunscreen when you go outside.
Honey
Honey is a natural moisturizer, making it an effective scar removal treatment. It prevents accumulation of dead skin cells and stimulates skin tissue regeneration.
Apply some honey on the scar, cover it with a bandage and leave it on overnight. The next morning, wash it off with warm water. Repeat daily before going to bed.
Another option is to make a scrub with equal amounts of honey and crystallized sugar. Apply it on the affected area and scrub gently for a few minutes. Rinse it off with warm water, pat dry and apply a moisturizer. Use this treatment once or twice a week.
Home Remedies for Scars
Lemon Juice: Take a fresh lemon and cut it into half. Rub the juicy part on the scar. Lemon works as a natural bleach and thus, reduces the blemishes and scars. Drink lemon juice (without mixing sugar in it) twice a day for 15 days.
Rosehip Seed Oil: Rosehip seed oil is used most commonly in cosmetics, especially in the scar removal creams. Take a few drops of rosehip seed oil on your fingers and gently massage it on the scars. Do this twice a day. It can be applied directly on the skin.
Ice Cubes: Ice cube is a very easy and simple home remedy for fading the scars. Take an ice cube and rub it gently on the scars.
Aloe Vera: Take an aloe vera leaf and cut it into half. Squeeze out the gel and apply it on the scar.
Tea Tree Oil: Tea tree oil is a very effective natural remedyfor removing scars. It works like a charm on scars. Make sure, you use the diluted tea tree oil.
Honey: Apply honey on the scar. It works great in removing scars.
Sandalwood Powder: Sandalwood powder is a very good home remedy for removing scars from face. Take sandalwood powder and mix it with rosewater or milk. Rub it on the scars, gently. Leave it on for an hour and wash it off with cold water.
Almonds: Take 2-3 almonds and soak them in water. Leave them overnight. In the morning, peel off the skin from the almondsand mash them. Add a few drops of rosewater and apply on the scars.
Potato: Take a raw potato. Extract its juice and apply it on the scars. This will let the scars fade away. You can also rub a slice of potato on the scars, directly.
Coconut Oil: Whenever you get a scar, apply coconut oilon it. This will reduce the scar, ultimately making it invisible.
Lavender Oil: Take a few drops of lavender oil and apply it on the scars.
Fenugreek : Fenugreek can be used in many ways in reducing the scars. You can take fenugreek leaves and make a fine paste and apply it on the scars. Take fenugreek seeds and boil them. Make a paste and store it in a cool place. Apply it on the scars.
Olive Oil: Olive oil is said to be really effective when it comes to scar removal. Take a few drops of olive oil and apply it on the scars on the daily basis. Olive oil will also moisturise the skin.
Cucumber: Place a slice of raw cucumber or apply its juice on the scar.
Tomato: Apply a slice of tomato on the scar or massage with tomato juice. Like lemon, tomato also works as natural bleach.
Yogurt Mix: If you have a burned scar, then, this home remedy will help you out. Take barley, yogurt and turmeric in equal proportions and make a paste. Apply it on the scar.
Vitamin E Cream : Apply vitamin E cream on the scars.
Cocoa Butter: Apply cocoa butteron the scars. It will not only help the scars to fade away, but also moisturise the skin, making it smooth and soft.
Baking Soda: Take 5 tablespoons of baking soda and 1 tablespoon of water. Mix it until you make a fine paste. Apply this paste on the scars and let it dry. Wash it off, later on. Repeat this natural remedy thrice a week.
Apple Cider Vinegar : Dab a cotton ball in apple cider vinegar and apply it on the scars. This will fade the scars. Wash it off after 10 minutes. Else, take 1 part of apple cider vinegarand 2 parts of water. Wash your face with this solution after cleaning the face and before going to bed. Apply skin moisturiser afterwards. This will also help in fading the scars from face.
Salt Scrub: Use a salt scrub which contains papaya. Papaya will provide a new shine to your skin while salt scrub will exfoliate and remove the dead skin, making the scars almost invisible.
Camomile Tea: Wash your scars with camomile tea. It will help the scars to fade away.
Cod Liver Oil: Apply cod liver oil on the scars for making the scars invisible.
Aspirin: Take 2 aspirins and crush them. Add a few drops of water to prepare a paste. Apply it on the scar.
Azadirachta Indica (Neem): Take few Azadirachta indica leaves (neem leaves) and make a paste. Apply it on the scars. It can also be used as a face pack. This will not only fade the scars, but also solve the skin problems, like acne, etc. It contains anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties, which works great if applied on the skin.
Fuller’s Earth: Take 1 tablespoon of fuller’s earth and 1 tablespoon of rosewater, along with 1 tablespoon of lemon juice. Mix them all together to form a fine paste. Apply it on the scar and rub it gently. Then, apply 1 more layer on it and leave it for 15 minutes to dry. Wash it off afterwards.
Garlic Oil: Take a few drops of garlicoil on your fingers and apply on the scars. Let the oil stay for 15 minutes. Garlic contains antibiotic properties and is a natural remedy for scars.
Gotu Kola: Take leaves of Gotu kola and make a paste. Apply it on the scars. It will not only reduce the scars, but also speed up the healing process. Also, it will improve the blood circulation.
Salicylic Acid: Salicylic acid is available in various forms, like creams and lotions. It’s a good remedy for severe scars.
Popular
Diamagnetic, Paramagnetic, and Ferromagnetic MaterialsSeptember 27, 2016 - 8:10 am
LandfillApril 20, 2016 - 5:59 am
CompostingApril 20, 2016 - 5:42 am
Six habitsApril 6, 2016 - 5:49 am
Recent
Aluminum DETOXFebruary 4, 2019 - 7:37 am
जनेऊ November 28, 2018 - 7:50 am
The Bhagwatam saysNovember 26, 2018 - 6:15 am
SECTOR 9 AMENDED VOTER LIST 2018November 14, 2018 - 5:23 am
Comments
Tags
Archives
February 2019
November 2018
October 2018
August 2018
July 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
© Copyright - Dr Rajeshwar Singh
Scroll to top