The Dangers of Alternative Depression Treatment
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Anxiety Treatments Home
Medical Reference
Features
Video
Slideshows & Images
News Archive
Anxiety and Panic Disorders Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Psychiatrist
Anxiety & Panic Disorders Guide
Overview
Symptoms & Types
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Related to Anxiety & Panic Disorders
ADHD
Crisis Assistance
Depression
Health & Balance
Living Healthy
Mental Health
Military Families Support
Smoking Cessation
Stress Management
Substance Abuse & Addiction
More Related Topics
Anxiety & Panic Disorders
Feature Stories
Alternatives for Mood Disorders
There are lots of alternative treatments for clinical depression and anxiety disorders, but you may need tried-and-true treatments.
By Jeanie Lerche Davis
From the WebMD Archives
There's growing evidence that caviar, exercise, SAM-e, even meditation can help ease mood disorders. Sounds like more fun than antidepressants -- but psychiatrists don't take it lightly.
In fact, some are concerned. People who rely on alternatives too much -- who don't get treatment that is proven to be effective -- can slip into a more serious clinical depression or anxiety disorder before they realize it.
"There's highly suggestive evidence that some alternatives, especially SAM-e and omega-3 fatty acids, can help, but it's not conclusive," says Andrew F. Leuchter, MD, vice-chair of psychiatry at the UCLA Neuropsychiatric Institute.
"When someone needs treatment, we have to look at what really works," he tells WebMD. "The real danger is that somebody with serious illness could forgo getting an effective treatment for months, even years."
Why Switch?
Why are people turning to alternatives? For some, it's the side effects from antidepressants. Others simply don't want to take antidepressants -- they prefer a more "natural" approach. Still others don't think their antidepressants have worked well enough in treating their clinical depression or anxiety disorders.
Ronald Glick, MD, medical director of the Center for Complementary Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center-Shadyside, has seen plenty of patients searching for alternatives for their mood disorders.
"Medications and psychotherapy are still the mainstays when it comes to treating depression and anxiety," says Glick, who is also professor of psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. "But alternative therapies can help. It depends on what you expect from them."
The Top Contenders
St. John's Wort
This may be the most-studied herb -- with more than 30 studies so far -- and some show it to be effective for treatment of mild forms of depression, says Glick. In fact, the University of Pittsburgh is participating in a study of the herb. "It looks quite promising," he says.
Despite the promise, the story of St. John's wort illustrates some important points, says Leuchter.
"There is data suggesting an effect -- a number of studies in Europe showed that it worked for major clinical depression," he tells WebMD. "But when double-blind, placebo-controlled 'gold-standard' studies were done, we found that it was not effective for major depression. That shows the peril of looking at small studies that are not well controlled to establish that something works."
Continued
Also, the FDA has issued a warning on St. John's wort, saying it dangerously interferes with a long list of prescription drugs. Too many people don't recognize that herbs affect the body physiologically just like prescription drugs do, Leuchter says.
Herbals can cause side effects, such as dizziness, headaches, stomach upset, or can dangerously affect how the body metabolizes other drugs, he says.
SAM-e
It's short for S-adenosylmethionine, a molecule that naturally occurs in the cells of plants and animals -- and it's not an herb. As we age, our bodies produce less SAM-e, so replacing it with a supplement can theoretically treat clinical depression.
"In my mind, SAM-e is really promising," says Glick. "In some studies, it has held up as well as an antidepressant in treatment of major clinical depression. It's a compound in the body, involved in a number of pathways, including the neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine. And it doesn't cause side effects for most people."
Glick's cautionary note: "Most people don't realize these products are medicines and that there are certain precautions. You don't want to take them with another antidepressant. You can get all kinds of side effects by getting too much serotonin. Also, SAM-e can be outrageously expensive, so that limits accessibility for most people."
Leuchter also likes SAM-e but stresses that the data are "suggestive, not conclusive."
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
It's not fishy, it's likely fact: Growing evidence shows that caviar, salmon, mackerel, and sardines can chase away clinical depression. These coldwater fish -- as well as walnuts and flaxseed -- have high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids.
"This is another natural substance that plays a part in the functioning of every cell of the body," Glick explains. "It reduces the risk of heart disease, stroke, and Alzheimer's disease, and it seems to have a preventive effect on manic depression -- but also is beneficial for clinical depression."
In parts of the world where fatty fish are a dietary mainstay, there is less depression, he notes. One small study showed that people with manic depression who took omega-3-rich fish oil capsules every day had fewer episodes of manic-depression than those who took a placebo.
Continued
Again, omega-3 is not intended to replace other medications, but it can help in treating clinical depression. There's no downside to eating an omega-3-rich diet, experts say.
Mind-Body Relaxation
Whether it's guided imagery, meditation, or yoga, anyone who suffers from clinical depression or anxiety disorders can benefit from some mind-body relaxation technique, says Glick.
"We feel it's really key that someone experiencing clinical depression, anxiety disorders, fatigue, or insomnia get hooked up with a mind-body technique," he tells WebMD. "It can help with mood, concentration, and energy."
Indeed, studies of meditation -- an ancient spiritual tradition -- show that daily meditation can have long-lasting positive effects on heart rate and other physiological processes, reports Herbert Benson, MD, president of the Mind/Body Institute at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
Yoga, tai chi, Lamaze breathing, and repetitive prayer (like a rosary) can do the same thing, says Benson. Any condition that is caused or exacerbated by stress can be relieved by these means -- and that includes clinical depression and anxiety disorders. Relaxation is the key, however it is achieved, he says.
Biofeedback -- which involves "training" the mind to control heart rate and other biophysical responses -- can also provide relief, says Glick. "The person learns to focus on their heart rate, on relaxation, on their emotions -- and learns to make heart rate less chaotic. We've found it can have direct benefit for people with clinical depression and anxiety disorders."
Exercise
We've heard it before: Regular exercise can beat the blues. But research suggests it helps with all levels of depression, even the most severe. Exercise may also help keep depression from coming back.
We're talking about aerobic exercise -- getting your heart pumping, getting winded, and doing it for at least 20 minutes three times week, says Glick.
One study showed that people who kept exercising after they recovered from depression had a lower risk of relapse compared with those who took antidepressant medication but did not exercise, reports James A. Blumenthal, PhD, a professor of medical psychology at Duke University Medical Center.
Leuchter agrees: Exercise helps clinical depression and anxiety disorders. "I recommend that patients do exercise, be active. It helps with recovery. But I would not recommend it as a sole treatment."
Continued
Chinese Traditional Medicine
Acupuncture and "integrative medicine" approaches are the least studied, says Glick. Some studies have found that acupuncture can have "a very good effect" on depression. Glick has applied for a federal grant to study acupuncture and depression. "We're interested in looking at specific acupuncture points that have shown the most dramatic effect in depression," he tells WebMD.
When patients don't seem to benefit from other depression treatments, Glick looks more holistically at their problem -- the integrative approach.
"What roles do diet, lifestyle, even toxins stored in your body play in depression and other mood disorders?" Glick tells WebMD. "We look at the gut, how it absorbs nutrients. If it's not absorbing adequately, why is that -- is it toxicity or an intestinal overgrowth?" Integrative approaches also involve looking at the hormonal system -- the thyroid, the adrenal glands, etc., he adds.
Tried and True
Nothing will replace the time-tested approach -- antidepressants and psychotherapy, Leuchter says. "The point is, there are probably many pathways to symptom improvement, but if you're really looking for a cure to depression, try what works."
If one antidepressant does not help enough, talk to your doctor about trying others. Numerous antidepressants are now available, each with positives and negatives, to help both clinical depression and anxiety disorders, psychiatrists say.
WebMD Feature Reviewed by Cynthia Dennison Haines, MD on September 20, 2004
Sources
SOURCES: Andrew F. Leuchter, MD, vice-chair of psychiatry, UCLA Neuropsychiatric Institute. Ronald Glick, MD, medical director, Center for Complementary Medicine, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center-Shadyside. WebMD Medical Reference from Healthwise: "St. John's Wort For Treating Depression." WebMD Medical News: "St. John's Wort Interferes With Lifesaving Drugs." WebMD Medical Reference from Healthwise: "Sam-e for depression." WebMD Medical News: "Can Caviar Cure Depression?" WebMD Medical News: "The Mysterious 'Medication' of Meditation." WebMD Medical News: "Exercise Beats the Blues -- and Keeps Going."
© 2004 WebMD, Inc. All rights Reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
Treatment Options for Anxiety
4 Types of Specific Phobias
Stand Up to Stage Fright: 10 Tips
MS and Depression: How Are They Linked?
PTSD: What Are the Warning Signs?
Guide to Generalized Anxiety Disorder
further reading
Slideshow: A Visual Guide to Generalized Anxiety Disorder
Slideshow: Famous people with anxiety
How to Conquer Your Fear of Flying
Tips for Living With Anxiety
What Are the Treatments for Social Anxiety Disorder?
What to Do When Depression and Anxiety Mix
The Benefits of Support Group Therapy
Anxiety Treatments Topics
Today on WebMD
Natural Ways to Calm Your Anxiety
14 non-drug remedies that can release tension.
Can Anxiety Disorders Be Cured?
Test your knowledge.
Types of Phobias
What are your fears?
Test Your Stress IQ
Do you know how stress affects your health?
Recommended for You
Slideshow
Anxiety Disorders: Types and Treatments
Article
Anxiety vs. Panic
SLIDESHOW
Generalized Anxiety Disorder Symptoms
Quiz
Is Clown Phobia Real?
Slideshow
Fear of Heights? Common Phobias
Article
10 Tips to Overcome Stage Fright
Article
Hoarding: More Than a Mess
Article
Can Anxiety Be Prevented?
Tools & Resources
Treatment for Anxiety
A Guide to GAD
Symptoms of PTSD
How to Prevent Panic Attacks
Phobias: What Are Your Fears?
Overcoming Stage Fright
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.