Stories of Persistence | DUPIXENT® (dupilumab)
Patient Prescribing Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
Healthcare Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic
Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Other Condition
What is Atopic
Dermatitis?
Disease Education
Eczema Check-in
About
DUPIXENT
How DUPIXENT Works
How DUPIXENT May Help
How DUPIXENT Is Taken
DUPIXENT
Support
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Sign Up
Copay Card
DUPIXENT Pricing Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary
Patient
Experiences
Patient Stories
Healthcare Professionals
Patient Stories
Jennifer
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Patient Ambassador,
on DUPIXENT Individual results may vary.
“In my job, I’m an
advocate for
others. It’s what I do.
As someone with
moderate-to-severe
atopic dermatitis, I’m
my own advocate."
Home
Home
Patient Experiences
Patient Stories
Stories of Strength
Could you imagine how you’d feel if one day you didn’t feel comfortable with your own skin?
That’s what happened to these ambassadors. Some had early onset of moderate-to-severe
eczema (atopic dermatitis), while others had it appear later in life. All of these ambassadors
found that their disease could not be well controlled with topical prescription therapies.
But, these patients never gave up. They continued to search for treatments, showing strength,
perseverance and persistence until DUPIXENT was presented as an option.
A First-Hand Account
Watch Sue’s video and experience her journey with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) and DUPIXENT.
Transcript
SUE: Swimming is a part of who I am. When I swim I kind of put myself into a zone. It’s very relaxing. But there was a time when I wasn’t very comfortable going into a swimming pool or being in a bathing suit. My skin didn’t look very good. I had developed uncontrolled severe eczema, or atopic dermatitis. I thought it would eventually go away. But it didn’t. This eczema changed my life.
ANNOUNCER VO: You’re about to hear more from Sue about her experience with uncontrolled severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) and treatment with DUPIXENT® (dupilumab).
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 18 years of age.
Please remember that this video shares only Sue’s experience and that every patient’s experience is unique.
Please watch and carefully review the Important Safety Information presented in this video and see the accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
SUE: Years ago, I developed severe eczema. It covered 90 percent of my body. The only places that I didn’t have it were the palms of my hands and the soles of my feet.
When I was in full flare, my skin was red, irritated and scaly. The itching was so relentless. It was seven days a week, 24-hours a day. It was maddening.
When I would scratch, the scratching just made it itch more. So it was scratching, itching, scratching, itching. In the morning I would get up, there would be blood on the sheets, blood on my nightclothes, dead skin everywhere.
I sought out dermatologists and allergists because I knew these were the doctors that treated this. But mine was so severe that they really didn’t know how to help me.
When my eczema was really bad, I would do anything to cover it up.
When I went out in public it made me feel very uncomfortable because I knew people were looking at it. You didn’t need to see people’s eyes to know that they were staring at your skin. I could feel it.
After having the eczema for so long, I was getting very frustrated and discouraged because no one could help me. I had tried so many things.
Initially, we did the steroid cream. We did bleach baths, light treatments, wet wraps. We went onto more potent medications.
I think in the back of my mind, truly, I thought maybe this was it. Maybe this was how I was going to live the rest of my life.
Then I heard about DUPIXENT. DUPIXENT is an injectable medicine for adults with moderate-tosevere eczema whose disease is not well controlled with topical therapies. I learned from my healthcare team that eczema is partly caused by inflammation beneath the skin.
My immune system was causing chronic inflammation. DUPIXENT could potentially help reduce my itching and give me clearer skin by reducing this inflammation.
After studying the benefits and risks and talking with my healthcare team, we felt comfortable moving forward with treatment.
My healthcare team informed me that serious side effects might include allergic reactions and eye problems and they told me what to do if I saw signs of these problems.
They also explained to me common side effects like injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling, and itching, and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Today, my doctors and I are pleased with my treatment plan and results with DUPIXENT. Of course, everyone’s treatment plan and experience are unique, and results may vary. This is just my experience.
When I found out that this medication was an injectable, I had never given myself an injection before, I wasn’t really comfortable with injections.
Once my healthcare team showed me the proper way to give myself an injection, I became more comfortable with the idea of doing it.
Now I inject myself once every two weeks based upon my doctor’s instructions.
DUPIXENT has made this disease manageable. Although eczema’s still part of my life, I don’t feel it’s all consuming.
I have learned a lot from my journey with eczema. I have learned that understanding and treating the root cause of eczema from the inside is really important.
For people with moderate-to-severe eczema, I would recommend you need to be an informed patient. You need to advocate for yourself. And you need to work with your physicians to find the right treatment option for you. And, most importantly, don’t give up.
The Journey
Disease Onset
There is nothing you do to get moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
It can affect people regardless of gender, skin color, and body size.
Wendy
"It was as though a
switch was thrown in my
body."
Kristy
"My body turned on me."
Anthony
"Sometimes, when I moved my
skin would tear open."
Does this all sound familiar? Complete
the Eczema Check-In, to gain a better
understanding of your uncontrolled
moderate-to-severe eczema
(atopic dermatitis) and guide a
productive conversation with your doctor.
Take Evaluation
Finding The Right Doctor
May Help Your Journey
As someone who deals with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) on a
daily basis, you have to be your biggest advocate. Search for a healthcare
provider that will be an advocate for you and your treatment journey.
Debbie
“Finding an eczema specialist
who works with you as a
member of your team is so
important.”
Use this tool to easily find nearby
specialists with experience in treating
adults with moderate-to-severe eczema
(atopic dermatitis).
Find an Eczema Specialist on Healthgrades.
Sanofi US and Regeneron do not endorse or recommend any particular physician, and search results do not include a comprehensive list of doctors in your area.
Learn how to talk to your healthcare
provider about DUPIXENT.
Download your
Doctor Discussion Guide234 KB
Perseverance
Each ambassador’s story of finding DUPIXENT is unique. While some
were hesitant about trying it, they each understood that
DUPIXENT held a chance for improved skin.
Jennifer
"... But I talked things over
with my husband (who is amazing,
by the way), and he pointed out that
I'd already been through so much. He had
a point. So, after thinking it over for a
few months and reading through
the information my specialist
gave me, I finally agreed
to try DUPIXENT."
Find out about DUPIXENT and
what it may be able to do for you.
Explore
Kristy
“(my dermatologist)
mentioned a treatment called
DUPIXENT for uncontrolled moderate-to-
severe atopic dermatitis. It is an injection
that I would need to take even when
my skin looks clear to stay
ahead of my symptoms,
which I was willing
to do.”
Moving Forward
Moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) may never go away, but DUPIXENT may
help with your symptoms. While everyone's results may vary, hear our ambassadors' experience with DUPIXENT.
See how DUPIXENT MyWay® helped with copay assistance, provided a personal nurse
educator and even assisted in educating the patients about taking DUPIXENT.
With DUPIXENT MyWay, we will tailor a
program to fit your situation. Get ongoing,
personalized nursing support 24/7; help
scheduling monthly prescription refills
and deliveries and in-home, in-office
or online supplemental injection training.
Get More Info
Rhonda
“They are a
very good source of
information and support. They
let me know when my shipments are
coming, and they’ve worked with
me on my insurance coverage.
I really feel like they
are advocating
for me.”
Share Your Story
Your experience with DUPIXENT is unique and yours to tell,
and we want to know your story.
Call 1‑844‑DUPIXENT, option 5
(1‑844-387-4936)
Important Safety Information and Indication
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indication
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
US-DAD-13323(7) Last Update: March 2019