Back Pain Relief Imposters | PushAsRx Athletic Training Centers El Paso, TX
PUSH Fitness & Rehabiliation
Welcome !! PUSH-as-Rx ®™ is leading the field with laser focus supporting our youth sport programs. The PUSH-as-Rx ®™ System is a sport specific athletic program designed by a strength-agility coach and physiology doctor with a combined 40 years of experience working with extreme athletes. At its core, the program is the multidisciplinary study of reactive agility, body mechanics and extreme motion dynamics. Through continuous and detailed assessments of the athletes in motion and while under direct supervised stress loads, a clear quantitative picture of body dynamics emerges. Exposure to the biomechanical vulnerabilities are presented to our team. Immediately, we adjust our methods for our athletes in order to optimize performance. This highly adaptive system with continual dynamic adjustments has helped many of our athletes come back faster, stronger, and ready post injury while safely minimizing recovery times. Results demonstrate clear improved agility, speed, decreased reaction time with greatly improved postural-torque mechanics. PUSH-as-Rx ®™ offers specialized extreme performance enhancements to our athletes no matter the age.
Likes
Followers
Followers
Subscribers
Followers
Likes
Followers
Followers
Subscribers
Followers
Sign in
Welcome, Login to your account.
Forget password? Remember me
Sign in
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.
Trending
Cyclists And The Benefits of Chiropractic | El Paso, TX.
Sports Chiropractic Treatment |Video
Fitness Trackers! What You Need To Know!
Sports Performance, Chiropractic Helps! In El Paso, TX.
Three Metabolic Energy Systems
Andres Martinez | PUSH-as-Rx ® | Testimonial_Part IV
Isaiah Delgado | Wrestler | PUSH-as-Rx ®
Diana Ramirez | Daniel Alvarado’s sister | PUSH-as-Rx ®
Daniel Alvarado | Push-as-Rx Owner | Overcome Your Own Doubts | PUSH-as-Rx ®
Mauro Pena | Client | PUSH-as-Rx ®
Push As Rx CrossFit El Paso, TX - Chiropractic Science & Functional Fitness
HOME
Pricing & Hours
Your Team
Member Perks
Wellness Rx *
Nutritional Genomics
ProLon®
Fasting
XYMOGEN Supplements
Formulas
New Formulas
Reformulations
Adrenal Support
Antioxidant Activity
Blood Sugar Support
Body Composition
Bone Health Support
Cardiovascular Support
Cell-Life Regulation
Cytokine Balance Support
Detoxification
Essential Fatty Acids
Female Health
Functional Food Bars
Gastrointestinal Support
Immune System Support
Joint & Muscle Support
Liver Support
Male Health
Multivitamins & Minerals
Neurological & Cognitive
Oral/Dental Health
Probiotics
Relaxation & Sleep
Sports Nutrition
Thyroid Support
Locations
Contact Us
Get Started
Home
Athletes
Crossfit® Fitness & Wellness
Back Pain Relief Imposters
Crossfit® Fitness & WellnessDiets
Back Pain Relief Imposters
By Daniel Alvarado - Exercise Physiologist
Share
IF IT SOUNDS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE…
When you’re in pain, you might try just about anything to feel better. Claims of miracle cures that instantly relieve back and neck pain are tempting, but they often fall short of their promises.
Save your money and steer clear of the products featured promising to eliminate your spine-related pain.
COPPER BRACELETS
Copper bracelets and wristbands have attracted a following of arthritis sufferers because of their perceived ability to reduce joint pain.
The key word here is perceived.
A 2013 study in the UK examining the effects of copper bracelets in patients with rheumatoid arthritis found no difference in pain outcomes between those wearing copper bracelets and those using a placebo.
While the bracelets won’t do you any harm, they’re more for looks than clinical benefit. There’s no solid medical evidence available proving they reduce pain or inflammation.
MAGNETS
From magnetic shoe inserts to bandages, magnets have been heavily marketed as a miracle cure to zap away a variety of back pain conditions, including fibromyalgia and arthritis. However, no proof exists to back up magnets’ health claims.
While studies have examined magnets’ impact on pain, the results are mixed—and the quality of some of the research is questionable. Additionally, magnets are not safe for some people, including those who use pacemakers or insulin pumps.
COLLOIDAL SILVER
Silver jewelry? Classic. Silver home furnishings? Sure thing. Colloidal silver for your spine pain? Never a good idea.
Colloidal silver for back pain is typically found as a topical cream containing small particles of silver. In 1999, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended that people not use colloidal silver to treat any medical condition because it’s neither safe nor effective.
Even worse than the false claims of back and neck pain relief are colloidal silver’s strange and serious side effects. This product can interfere with the absorption of some prescription drugs and even permanently tint your skin a blue-gray color.
DMSO AND MSM DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS
If you have spondylosis (osteoarthritis), you may have heard of the dietary supplements dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and methylsulfonylmethane (MSM). Some believe this pair of supplements can block pain and inflammation, but no real medical evidence shows these substances actually relieve painful arthritis symptoms.
Instead of eliminating your arthritis pain, MSM and DMSO might cause some unwanted side effects. Both have been linked to causing upset stomach and skin rashes, while DMSO may also leave you with garlic breath and body odor.
A WORD ON DRUG-SUPPLEMENT INTERACTIONS
Speaking of supplements, it’s important to understand that dietary supplements may not mix with over-the-counter or prescription drugs. Some interactions result in mild side effects, but others can be much more serious—even life-threatening.
If you’re using a dietary supplement—even if it’s a seemingly benign herbal or vitamin—always let your doctor and pharmacist know before taking it with an over-the-counter or prescription medication. They will share any dangerous interactions, and ensure you’re safely addressing your back and neck pain.
THE REAL DEALS: ALTERNATIVE TREATMENTS THAT WORK
Many who fall prey to the products listed in this slideshow have an interest in alternative or complementary therapies for back and neck pain. While some non-traditional treatments should be avoided, many have been proven to reduce spine pain.
Scientists from the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health at the National Institutes of Health reviewed 105 U.S.-based trials from the past 50 years that included more than 16,000 participants. They found the therapies below effective at controlling pain:
• Acupuncture • Massage • Relaxation techniques • Tai chi
If you prefer alternative methods to manage for your spinal condition, explore the therapies above. They are effective, safe, and will help you live a healthier life.
Dr. Alex Jimenez D.C.,C.C.S.T’s insight:
Claims of miracle cures that instantly relieve back and neck pain are tempting, but they often fall short of their promises.
For Answers to any questions you may have please call Dr. Jimenez at 915-850-0900
dietsFood is MedicineHealthy Eating
Share FacebookTwitterGoogle+ReddItWhatsAppPinterestEmail
Prev Post
Kettlebell Exercises To Help Your Back Pain
Next Post
This Is How Much Protein You Really Need To Eat In A Day
You might also like More from author
Nutrition and Wellness
What Fitness Enthusiasts Want To Know About The Ketogenic Diet
Nutritional Genomics
Biochemistry of DNA Methylation
Nutritional Genomics
Methylation Donors for Methylation Support
Nutritional Genomics
The Importance Of Methylation Support
Nutrition and Wellness
Low-Carb Diet Tied to Heart Rhythm Disorder
Fasting
Fasting and Chronic Pain
Prev Next
Choosing Dr. Alex jimenez D.C. Injury Medical & Chiropractic Clinic
Push As Rx Injury Centers
Address: 6440 Gateway East Bld: B El Paso, TX 79905
Phone: (915) 412-6677
Email: Send Email
Web: www.DrAlexJimenez.com
Push 24/7
Address: 1700 E Cliff Dr El Paso, TX 79902
Phone: (915) 412-6677
Email: Send Email
Web: www.pushasrx.com
Clinic Location 1
Address: 11860 Vista Del Sol Dr Suite 128
El Paso, TX 79936
Phone: (915) 412-6677
Email: Send Email
Web: www.DrAlexJimenez.com
Clinic Location 2
Address: 6440 Gateway East, Building B
El Paso, TX 79905
Phone: (915) 850-0900
Email: Send Email
Web: www.ElPasoBackClinic.com
Clinic Location 3
Address: 1700 N Zaragoza Rd # 117
El Paso, TX 79936
Phone: (915) 850-0900
Email: Send Email
Web: www.ChiropracticScientist.com
Follow Us @pushfitnesselpaso
Facebook Join us on Facebook
pushasrx Join us on Twitter
Google+ Join us on Google
Youtube Join us on Youtube
Instagram Join us on Instagram
© 2019 - PushAsRx Athletic Training Centers El Paso, TX. All Rights Reserved.
Call Now Button
EN ES
Sign in
Welcome, Login to your account.
Forget password? Remember me
Sign in
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.