Does Vitamin E Skin Oil Have Side Effects? | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Skin Care Basics
Does Vitamin E Skin Oil Have Side Effects?
Andrea Cespedes
About the Author:
Andrea Cespedes
Andrea Cespedes has been in the fitness industry for more than 20 years. A personal trainer, run coach, group fitness instructor and master yoga teacher, she also holds certifications in holistic and fitness nutrition.
View Full Profile
You might apply vitamin E oil to your skin to help heal scars, minimize wrinkles or protect you from sun damage. It's a common ingredient in skin care products and most people experience no side effects when applying vitamin E oil. In a select few, though, an allergy to the topical oil may develop, resulting in a rash or aggravation of existing skin conditions such as rosacea.
Vitamin E and its derivatives are common ingredients in moisturizers. (Image: robertprzybysz/iStock/Getty Images)
Reported Reactions
Vitamin E oil may appear as alpha-tocopherol on the ingredient label of cosmetic products. A 2008 issue of "Dermatitis" reported a case in which a patient experienced contact dermatitis in reaction to application of a moisturizer that included alpha-tocopherol. If you suspect you are allergic to the oil, discontinue its use altogether. Read product labels carefully to ensure you aren't accidentally exposed.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Linus Pauling Institute: Vitamin E and Skin Health
Dermatitis: Contact Allergy From Vitamins in Cosmetic Products
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Cooking Oil That Is Good for Soy-Free & Gluten-Free Diets
2
The Safety of Vitamin E Oil in Pregnancy
3
Adverse Reactions to Vitamin E Drops in the Eye
4
Coconut Oil Allergy Symptoms
5
The Side Effects of Eucalyptus Lavender Oil
6
What Are the Treatments for a Skin Rash From Mineral Oil?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.