Achilles tendinitis: Treatment, symptoms, and causes
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What can I do about Achilles tendinitis?
Last updated	 Wed 29 November 2017	 Last updated	Wed 29 Nov 2017
By Mike Paddock
Reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Table of contents
Treatment
Stretches and exercises
Symptoms
Causes
Outlook
Prevention
The Achilles tendon joins the calf muscles to the heel bone and runs down the back of the lower leg. When this tendon is put under excess strain, it can become inflamed. This is Achilles tendinitis.
The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the body. It can endure great force, but it is still susceptible to injury.
Achilles tendinitis, or tendonitis, usually results from microtears that occur in the tendon during strenuous, high impact exercise, such as running.
Untreated, the tendon can become torn or ruptured. In mild cases, treatment may involve resting or changing an exercise routine, but more severe cases may need surgery.
Treatment
Treatment
Treatment may involve physical therapy.
Treatment aims to relieve pain and reduce swelling. The choice of treatment will depend on the severity of the condition and whether the patient is a professional athlete or not.
The doctor will probably suggest a combination of strategies.
Methods of treating Achilles tendinitis include:
Ice packs: Applying these to the tendon, when in pain or after exercising, can alleviate pain and inflammation.
Rest: This gives the tissue time to heal. The type of rest needed depends on the severity of the symptoms. In mild cases, it may mean reducing the intensity of a workout, but severe cases might require complete rest for days or weeks.
Elevating the foot: Keeping the foot raised above the level of the heart can reduce swelling.
Pain relief: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), such as ibuprofen, can reduce pain and swelling. People with asthma, kidney disease, or liver disease should first check with a doctor.
Steroid injections: Cortisone, for example, can reduce tendon swelling, but it has also been associated with a greater risk of tendon rupture. Giving the injection while scanning the area with ultrasound can reduce this risk.
Compression bandages and orthotic devices: Ankle supports and shoe inserts can aid recovery as they take the stress off the tendon. Heel lifts, which move the foot away from the back of the shoe, may help patients with insertional Achilles tendinitis.
Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT): High-energy shockwaves are used to stimulate the healing process. Results have not been consistent, but if other measures do not work, it might be worth trying before opting for surgery.
It usually takes between a few days and 6 weeks for tendinitis to heal.
Surgery
Surgery can repair the damage sustained by the tendon as a result of Achilles tendinitis. The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS) only recommends surgery if the pain continues for 6 months or more.
The most common procedure is gastrocnemius recession. This involves lengthening one of the two muscles that make up the calf, to give the ankle a wider range of motion.
stretches_and_exercises
Stretches and exercises
A physical therapist can teach stretching exercises to improve flexibility and increase calf strength.
Here are two exercises, suggested by the AAOS.
Calf stretch
Lean forward with your hands against a wall.
Have one foot on the ground, with the leg straight, and one foot in front of it, with the knee bent.
Push your hips toward the wall and hold for 10 seconds.
Relax and repeat 20 times for each foot.
Bilateral heel drop
Stand with the front half of your foot on the stair and the heel off, holding a rail to make sure you are balanced and will not fall.
Slowly lift your heels and lower them as far as you can.
Repeat 20 times.
Both exercises must be done slowly and in a controlled manner. Doing them fast can increase the damage.
This may help the Achilles tendon to heal and prevent future injury. Physical therapy is normally more effective for noninsertional Achilles tendinitis.
Symptoms
Symptoms
The Achilles tendon runs down the back of the lower leg.
The main symptom of Achilles tendinitis is a gradual buildup of pain that worsens with time.
The individual may also notice the following:
The Achilles tendon feels sore a few centimeters above where it meets the heel bone.
The lower leg feels stiff, slow, or weak.
A slight pain appears in the back of the leg after running or exercising and becomes more severe.
Pain in the Achilles tendon occurs while running or a couple of hours after.
Pain is greater when running fast, for a long time, or when climbing stairs.
The Achilles tendon swells or forms a bump.
The Achilles tendon creaks when touched or moved
Diagnosis
These and other similar symptoms feature in a number of conditions, so medical advice is needed for an accurate diagnosis.
A doctor will ask about symptoms and perform a physical examination. They will lightly touch the back of the ankle and tendon to locate the source of the pain or inflammation.
The doctor will also test the foot and ankle to see if the range of motion and flexibility is impaired.
An imaging test, for example, an x-ray, MRI or ultrasound scan, can help to eliminate other possible causes of pain and swelling and to assess any damage to the tendon.
Possible complications
Achilles tendinitis can lead to Achilles tendinosis, a degenerative condition in which the structure of the tendon changes and becomes susceptible to serious damage. The tendon can tear, causing great pain.
Tendinitis and tendinosis are different conditions. Tendinitis involves inflammation, while tendinosis is a degenerative process on a cellular level, and there is no inflammation. Tendinosis is often misdiagnosed as tendinitis. Getting the correct diagnosis will lead to more appropriate treatment.
causes
Causes
Achilles tendinitis can develop in different ways. Some are easier to avoid than others, but being aware of them can aid earlier diagnosis and help prevent serious injury.
Noninsertional Achilles tendinitis is more common in younger, more active people. The fibers in the middle of the tendon start to break down, thicken, and swell.
Insertional Achilles tendinitis is not necessarily related to activity. It affects the lower portion of the tendon as it inserts into the heel bone.
Causes of Achilles tendinitis include:
Using incorrect or worn out shoes when running or exercising
Not warming up properly before exercise
Increasing intensity of exercise too quickly, for example, running speed or distance covered
Prematurely introducing hill running or stair climbing to an exercise routine
Running on hard or uneven surfaces
The calf muscle is injured or has little flexibility, putting more strain on the Achilles tendon
Sudden intense physical activity such as sprinting for the finish line
Differences in foot, leg, or ankle anatomy can also lead to Achilles tendinitis. Flat feet or fallen arches can put strain on the tendon.
Bone spurs are extra bone growths where the tendon joins the bone. These can rub against the Achilles tendon, causing damage and discomfort.
Patients taking fluoroquinolone antibiotics may have a higher risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture. In 2008, the FDA asked that a boxed warning be added to the prescribing information for Cipro, or ciprofloxacin, Factive, or gemifloxacin and others.
The risk of injury does not disappear when the dosage stops. People have reported tendon problems several months after they stopped using the drug.
Outlook
Outlook
Recovery depends on how severe the tendinitis is.
The AAOS says that it may take several months for the pain to go away, even with early treatment.
If the pain does not resolve within 6 months, surgery may be necessary. Those who have surgery may not be able to return to competitive sports or running for at least 12 months. Some cannot return to their sport.
Prevention and early treatment are the best way to prevent long-term problems.
Prevention
Prevention
Warming up before exercise can prevent injury.
Achilles tendinitis cannot be completely prevented, but the risk of developing it can be reduced by being aware of the possible causes and taking precautions.
These include:
Varying exercise: Alternating between high-impact exercises, such as running, and low-impact exercise, for example, swimming, can reduce stress on the Achilles tendon on some days.
Limiting certain exercises: Too much hill running, for example, can put excessive strain on the Achilles tendon.
Wearing the correct shoes and replacing them when worn: Shoes that support the arch and protect the heel create less tension in the tendon.
Using arch supports inside the shoe: This can help if the shoe is in good condition but does not provide the required arch support.
Gradually increasing the intensity of a workout: Achilles tendinitis can occur when the tendon is suddenly put under too much strain, so warming up and increasing the level of activity gradually gives the muscles time to loosen up, and this puts less pressure on the tendon.
It is important to stretch and warm up before and after exercising. Stretching helps to keep the Achilles tendon flexible, so there is less chance of tendinitis developing. Stretching every day, including rest days, will further improve flexibility.
If you want to buy any of the over-the-counter treatments listed in this article, then they are available online.
Shop for ice packs
Shop for ibuprofen
Shop for compression bandages
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Leg pain: Types, causes, and home treatment Leg pain is a common symptom of injury or disease affecting the blood vessels, nerves, muscles, joints, soft tissues, or bones. Many home remedies can help, but consult a doctor about sudden, persistent, or severe pain. Read on to learn more about causes and prevention of leg pain, as well as a range of treatments. Read now
Tendinitis: Symptoms, causes, and treatment Tendinitis is the inflammation of a tendon caused by repetitive overuse or injury. It can occur in an elbow, wrist, finger, thigh, or elsewhere. Tendinitis includes a range of disorders, such as housemaid's knee, tennis elbow, and trigger thumb. This article explores symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. Read now
Patellofemoral pain syndrome (runner's knee) Patellofemoral pain syndrome is a condition that involves pain around the knee or the kneecap. Symptoms include a dull, aching pain that may become worse when kneeling, climbing stairs, or squatting. Causes include overuse and trauma. Physical therapy, medication, and a change of activity are some ways of treating it. Read now
Why do my heels hurt and what can I do about it? Heel pain is a common problem that can affect the bottom, the side, or the back of the heel. Heel pain is usually caused by continual pressure or stress to the foot and can be extremely painful. This article examines types of heel pain, what treatments are available, and how heel pain can be prevented. Read now
What to do about heel pain Plantar fasciitis, inflammation of the ligament that runs under the sole of the foot, is one of the most common causes of heel pain. It can also cause pain in the arch of the foot and lead to other complications. Read on for the causes and symptoms of plantar fasciitis and exercises that may help to relieve heel pain. Read now
email email
print
share share
Sports Medicine / Fitness
Bones / Orthopedics Pain / Anesthetics
Additional information
Article last updated by Yvette Brazier on Wed 29 November 2017.
Visit our Sports Medicine / Fitness category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Sports Medicine / Fitness.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Achilles tendinitis. (2010, June). Retrieved from http://orthoinfo.aaos.org/topic.cfm?topic=a00147
Achilles tendinitis. (2010, June). Retrieved from https://orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/diseases--conditions/achilles-tendinitis
Achilles tendinosis. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.aofas.org/footcaremd/conditions/ailments-of-the-ankle/Pages/Achilles-Tendinosis.aspx
Bass, E. (2012, March 31). Tendinopathy: Why the difference between tendinitis and tendinosis matters. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3312643/
Chronic tendon pain: What is tendinosis or tendinopathy? (n.d). Retrieved from http://www.tendonpain.org/index.shtml
Information for Healthcare Professionals: Fluoroquinolone Antimicrobial Drugs [ciprofloxacin (marketed as Cipro and generic ciprofloxacin), ciprofloxacin extended-release (marketed as Cipro XR and Proquin XR), gemifloxacin (marketed as Factive), levofloxacin (marketed as Levaquin), moxifloxacin (marketed as Avelox), norfloxacin (marketed as Noroxin), and ofloxacin (marketed as Floxin)]. (2008, July 8). Retrieved from http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm126085.htm
Tendinitis. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.arthritis.org/about-arthritis/types/tendinitis/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Paddock, Mike. "What can I do about Achilles tendinitis?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 29 Nov. 2017. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/240819.php>
APA
Paddock, M. (2017, November 29). "What can I do about Achilles tendinitis?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/240819.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
House dust microbes degrade cancer-causing chemical
A new study finds that the microbes in our household dust can break down cancer-causing environmental chemicals. However, this benefit comes at a cost.
Study debunks 3 common sleep myths
From how many hours of sleep we need each night to whether or not loud snoring is normal, new research examines widespread beliefs about sleep.
Popular in: Sports Medicine / Fitness
How to strengthen the lower back
How long does it take to heal a pulled quad?
Best exercises and remedies for plantar fasciitis
Causes and home remedies for toe cramps
What are the causes of unexplained muscle aches?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/240819.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);