Dr. Sunita Gupta - Book Appointment, Consult Online, View Fees, Contact Number, Feedbacks | Gynaecologist in Delhi
We don't support your browser. Please upgrade your browser or download modern browsers from here!
Get the App For Doctors Health Feed Login/Sign-up
Ask a Question Book Appointment Consult Online Book Lab Test
Common Specialities
{{speciality.keyWord}}
Common Issues
{{issue.keyWord}}
Common Treatments
{{treatment.keyWord}}
Diet, Food & Fitness Skin & Hair Care Health Conditions Pregnancy, Kids & Parenting Women's Health Sexual Wellness More
Weight Management
Weight Gain
Weight Loss
Obesity
Nutrition & Diet
Diet
Healthy Eating
Fitness & Exercise
Meditation
Nutrition
Sport Injuries
Yoga
Skin Care
Acne
Allergies
Anti-Ageing
Chickenpox
Eczema
Measles
Oily Skin Care
Psoriasis
Ring Worm
Rosacea
Skin Care
Warts
Vitiligo
Hair Care
Dandruff
Hair Care
Hair Fall
Hair Growth
Hair Treatment
Oily Hair Care
Respiratory Health
Asthma
COPD
Diabetes
Diabetes - Type 1
Diabetes - Type 2
Heart Health
Cholestrol Management
Heart Disease
Hypertension
Cancer
Breast Cancer
Lung Cancer
Oral Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Skin Cancer
Thyroid
Hyperthyroidism
Pain Management
Abdominal Pain
Arthritis
Back Pain
Foot Pain
Hip Pain
Knee Pain
Migraine
Nerve Pain
Osteoarthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Sleep Disorders
Obstructive Sleep Apnea
Insomnia
Mental Health
ADHD
Anxiety Disorder
Alzheimer's & Dementia
Autism
Bipolar Disorder
Clinical Depression
Obsessive-compulsive Disorder (OCD)
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Schizophrenia
Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
Fertility
Miscarriage
Abortion
Post Pregnancy
Parenting - Newborn & Baby
Baby Dental Health
Baby Development
Baby Diarrhea
Baby Nutrition
Baby Rashes and SkinCare
Diaper Rash
Diapering
Jaundice
Torticollis
Parenting - 1 yr+ Child
Bedwetting
Child Nutrition
Women's Health
Birth Control
Breast Cancer
Having Safe Sex
Heavy Periods
Menopause
Menstrual Cramps
Nipple Problems
Osteoporosis
Ovarian Cysts
PCOS/PCOD
PMS
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
Vaginal Dryness
Women's Libido
Abnormal Pap Test
Abortion
Amenorrhea
Bacterial Vaginosis
Benign Breast Lumps
Breast Infections
Chronic Pelvic Pain
Endometriosis
Fibrocystic Breasts
Hysterectomy and Oophorectomy
Infertility
Mammograms
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
Pevlic Organ Prolapse
Uterine Bleeding
Uterine Fibroids
Vaginal Atrophy
Vaginal Cancer
Sexual Wellness
Erectile Dysfunction
Having Safe Sex
HIV
Infertility & Reproduction
Men's Libido
Nightfall
Premature Ejaculation
STDs
General Health
Constipation
Healthy Digestion
Healthy Heart
Sleep Better
Mental Well-Being
Anger Management
Anxiety
Depression
Relationship Management
Stress
Eye Care
Red Eye
Cataract
Vision Problems
Ear Care
Ear Infections
Ear Wax
Tinnitus (Ringing in Ears)
Kidney Care
Kidney Stones
Kidney Failure
Liver Care
Fatty Liver
Liver Cirrhosis
Oral & Dental Care
Tooth Decay/Ache
Tooth Sensitivity
Common Specialities
{{speciality.keyWord}}
Common Issues
{{issue.keyWord}}
Common Treatments
{{treatment.keyWord}}
Call Doctor
Book Appointment
Home > Delhi > Gynaecologists > Nehru Place > Dr. Sunita Gupta
Dr. Sunita Gupta
MBBS, MD - Obstetrics & Gynaecology
Gynaecologist, Delhi
37 Years Experience · ₹500 - 800 at clinic
Book Appointment
Call Doctor
Dr. Sunita Gupta MBBS, MD - Obstetrics & Gynaecology Gynaecologist, Delhi
37 Years Experience · ₹500 - 800 at clinic
Book Appointment
Call Doctor
Submit Feedback
Report Issue
SMS/Email
Get Help
Services
Feed
Personal Statement
My experience is coupled with genuine concern for my patients. All of my staff is dedicated to your comfort and prompt attention as well....more
My experience is coupled with genuine concern for my patients. All of my staff is dedicated to your comfort and prompt attention as well.
More about Dr. Sunita Gupta
Dr. Sunita Gupta is a popular Gynaecologist in Nehru Place, Delhi. She has been a successful Gynaecologist for the last 37 years. She has done MBBS, MD - Obstetrics & Gynaecology . You can meet Dr. Sunita Gupta personally at Fortis C - DOC in Nehru Place, Delhi. Don’t wait in a queue, book an instant appointment online with Dr. Sunita Gupta on Lybrate.com.
Lybrate.com has an excellent community of Gynaecologists in India. You will find Gynaecologists with more than 41 years of experience on Lybrate.com. You can find Gynaecologists online in Delhi and from across India. View the profile of medical specialists and their reviews from other patients to make an informed decision.
Info
Education
MBBS - All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi - 1982
MD - Obstetrics & Gynaecology - All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi - 1985
Awards and Recognitions
Awarded Gold Medal for first position in Forensic Medicine
Infertility training at Cromwell Hospital London
Attended workshop on Micro Surgery under Dr. Kusum Jhaveri, Bombay
...more
Attained First Position in College and Seventh position in Delhi University in Pre,Professional B.Sc. 1st year
Passed E.C.F.M.G. English and Medical tests
Awarded MD Obstetrics and Gynecology from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi in first attempt
laparoscopy training at University of Kiel Germany
Professional Memberships
Indian Medical Association (IMA)
Delhi Medical Council
Indian Fertility Society (IFS)
Location
Get Directions
Book Clinic Appointment with Dr. Sunita Gupta
Fortis C - DOC
B-16, Chirag Enclave (Opp. Nehru Place), Delhi, Delhi Get Directions
₹700 at clinic
MON, THU
10:00 AM - 12:00 PM
SAT
09:00 AM - 11:00 AM
...more
Call Clinic
Book Appointment
Dr Sunita Gupta's Clinic
B - 7/7, Near Deer Park Main Gate, Safdarjung Enclave, Delhi, Delhi Get Directions
₹500 at clinic
MON-SAT
06:00 PM - 09:00 PM
...more
Call Clinic
Book Appointment
Dr Sunita Gupta's Clinic
B - 7/7, Near Deer Park Main Gate, Delhi, Delhi Get Directions
₹700 at clinic
MON-SAT
06:00 PM - 08:30 PM
...more
Call Clinic
Book Appointment
Fortis La Femme
S - 549 Alakananda, Alaknanda Don Bosco Rd, Greater Kailash II, New Delhi, Delhi 110048, Delhi Get Directions
₹700 at clinic
WED
12:00 PM - 02:00 PM
...more
Call Clinic
Book Appointment
Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital
1,Press Enclave Road,Mandir Marg. Landmark : Near Citywalk Mall , Delhi Get Directions
₹800 at clinic
MON, THU, SAT
02:00 PM - 04:00 PM
TUE-WED, FRI
09:00 AM - 11:00 AM
...more
Call Clinic
Book Appointment
Fortis La Femme - Greater Kailash
S - 549 Alakananda, Alaknanda Don Bosco Rd, Greater Kailash II, New Delhi, Delhi 110048, Delhi Get Directions
+3
4.3 (775 ratings)
₹700 at clinic
MON-WED, FRI-SUN
10:00 AM - 04:00 PM
...more
Call Clinic
Book Appointment
View All
Services
Management of Abortion
Get Cost Estimate
Delivery Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Women's Health
Get Cost Estimate
Caesarean Section Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Treatment Of Female Sexual Problems
Get Cost Estimate
Termination Of Pregnancy Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Treatment Of Pregnancy Problems
Get Cost Estimate
Hysterectomy Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Allopathy Treatment
Get Cost Estimate
Hysteroscopy Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Well Woman Healthcheck
Get Cost Estimate
Treatment Of Female Sexual Problems
Get Cost Estimate
Treatment Of Medical Diseases In Pregnancy
Get Cost Estimate
Hymenoplasty Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Treatment Of Menstrual Problems
Get Cost Estimate
Intra-Uterine Insemination (IUI) Treatment
Get Cost Estimate
Medical Termination Of Pregnancy (Mtp) Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Gynecology Laparoscopy Procedures
Get Cost Estimate
Pap Smear Procedure
Get Cost Estimate
Pcod Treatment
Get Cost Estimate
View All Services
Submit Feedback
Submit a review for Dr. Sunita Gupta
Your feedback matters!
Write a Review
Feed
Nothing posted by this doctor yet. Here are some posts by similar doctors.
Urinary Tract Infection - How To Avoid It?
Dr. Siddhesh Dhaygude
MBBS Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, DNB - General Medicine, DNB - Nephrology
Nephrologist, Pune
The structure responsible for production, transportation, storage and excretion of urine form the urinary tract. Kidney, ureters, bladder and urethra are structures involved in urine formation and excretion process. Kidney filters nearly 3 ounces of blood, removes waste materials every minute. When these get infected with entry of any micro organism or any other pathological condition, then the person gets urinary tract infection (UTI).
Causes and symptoms
Urinary tract infections are more common in women than men because of the small size of the urethra (4cms) and also because of the squatting position of voiding. Entry of organisms like bacteria, viruses and fungi are the major cause of UTI. The person may experience burning sensation and pain when voiding, fever is indicated when the infection has reached the kidneys or prostate glands in male. Other symptoms include pain in back, ribs, nausea and vomiting.
Preventive measures
Though antibiotics are used to treat the present infection there are increased chance of getting the recurrent infection. So it is best advised to follow the preventive measures to stay away safely from getting infected
Drink plenty of water nearly 2- 3litres of water per day.
Urinate when you feel the need , don’t control or resist voiding when you feel the urge as this may give room for the organisms to grow well
Urinate after sexual intercourse. change the birth control measures if UTI is a recurrent problem
Wash front to back, wipe off thoroughly after emptying the bladder so as to prevent the entry of organisms into the urethra.
Avoid wearing tight fitting clothes. Always prefer cotton inner garments and loose fitting clothes so that air entry keeps the area moist and free from bacteria.
Cranberry juice works best and it is the natural treatment for bladder infections. Cranberries have a special substance that can avoid the entry of E.coli into the bladder, but it does not have much effect on recurrent UTI infections
4 people found this helpful
My Wife is 8 months pregnant, what are the three most important things to be taken care of?
Dr. Prashant K Vaidya
Diploma In Gastroenterology, Diploma In Dermatology, BHMS
Homeopath, Hyderabad
Dairy Products. During pregnancy, you need to consume extra protein and calcium to meet the needs of the growing fetus (7, 8). ... Legumes. ... Sweet Potatoes. ... Salmon. ... Eggs. ... Broccoli and Dark, Leafy Greens. ... Lean Meat. ... Fish Liver Oil.
I have pcod. Periods has stopped since 9 months. Want to pregnant but how can it be possible?please let me know
Dr. Indira Das
MBBS, DNB (Obstetrics and Gynecology), MD - Obstetrtics & Gynaecology
Gynaecologist, Delhi
In order to be pregnant you must ovulate regularly. The anovulation and absence of periods must be treated first. you need consultation
Which are the best days as per the menstrual cycle to have sex in order to avoid unwanted pregnancy? If on losing virginity vaginal bleeding takes place what we must do? If condoms leak or breaks ruptures what we must do to avoid pregnancy? In this case of unprotected sex if one consumes unwanted 72 tablet immediately after sex does it avoid pregnancy for sure?
Dr. Sameer Kumar
MBBS, MD - Obstetrtics & Gynaecology, FMAS, DMAS
Gynaecologist, Noida
Hello, the safe period is from day 3-day 11 in a 28-30 days cycle. Secondly on loosing virginity vaginal bleeding occurs due to rupture of hymen which stops naturally in 2-3 days. Thirdly in case of contraceptive failure or unprotected sex, in order to avoid pregnancy, emergency contraceptive is to be used within 72 hrs, offering 99% protection against pregnancy.
Ovarian Cysts - How To Treat Them?
Dr. Vani W
MBBS Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, MS - Obstetrics and Gynaecology
Gynaecologist, Madurai
All women have two ovaries located on either side of the uterus. They are fundamental for the process of child birth. However ovarian cysts have emerged as major problems which most women suffer from. In this, small pockets filled with fluids develop on the surface or within the ovaries. Though they are generally harmless, often times disappearing without any treatment, they do have the potential to create complications during child birth. Treatment of ovarian cysts depends on the size and the quantity of the cysts.
Some of the treatments available are-
1. Patience and a careful watch
In case medical examinations reveal tiny cysts, patience can be the key word. If you did not suffer from perceptible symptoms and the cysts were revealed only through tests, you must follow it with regular visits to the doctor. Few medications and regular ultrasound examinations are all you need in such a case.
2. Contraceptives
Birth control pills or contraceptives may be sometimes prescribed to you as possible medications to treat the cysts. Regular administering of these medicines deters the possibility of further development of cysts. They also benefit greatly in reducing the possibilities of suffering from ovarian cancer in the future.
3. Operations
In case the tests reveal large cysts, operations or surgical removal of them may be the only possible solution. Operations are generally suggested if the cysts have persisted for a long time and are accompanied by terrible pain in the lower abdomen.
4. Ovarian cystectomy
This is performed when the ovaries are kept intact and only the cysts are carefully removed.
5. Oophorectomy
In this form of surgery, only the ovary that is affected with the cysts is removed, while the other is kept intact. Both the ovaries might also have to be surgically removed if they are found to be affected.
6. Hysterectomy and subsequent removal of fallopian tubes and uterus
This is done when the cysts developed have the potential of becoming cancer us. In such a situation, an extreme measure is adopted with the complete removal of the ovaries along with the uterus and fallopian tubes. This is done in order to prevent the subsequent spreading of cancer.
In case you have a concern or query you can always consult an expert & get answers to your questions!
2713 people found this helpful
Dear Doctor, am a15 week pregnant women past two week I have sharp pain in lower abdomen at right side, its not frequently but some of others says its appendicitis problem, I didn't know what's happening to me, also have bitter taste in my mouth. Please give some advice and suggestions.
Dr. Potnuru Srinivaasa Sudhakar
M.B.S.(HOMEO), MD - Homeopathy
Homeopath, Visakhapatnam
Gas and Bloating. Constipation. Round Ligament Pain– Round ligament pain can occur during second trimester and can cause a sharp pain in the abdomen on either or both sides. The pain is caused by the stretching of the ligament that supports the uterus as the uterus grows. Consult your family doctor for further evaluation of your pain.
1 person found this helpful
Female partner ko excited kaise kiya jaye. Body, boobs, lip kissing and vagina ko touch krne se bhi jayda excited ni ho pata. Aur excited krne ke liye kya kiya ja sake pls kuch idea dijiye eske bare me.
Dr. Viniita Jhuntrraa
MBBS
Sexologist, Jaipur
Focus on enjoyment.Don't do in a bookish way.focus on enjoyment.stop counting.Let it move a rhythmic spontaneous manner.
1 person found this helpful
What are the days in which sex will not lead to pregnancy? What are the safe days for sex without tension of pregnancy?
Dr. Sudhakar Petkar
Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), L.C.P.S, PhD,D.P.S.M
Sexologist, Ahmednagar
If your period is regular and they are coming on every 28th days, then safe period is starting of 1st day of menstruation to 11th day and 18th day onwards till the starting of the menses.
My friend had a intercourse with his gf unprotected. Within 24 hours, she had taken I pill tablet. After that day, they had again unprotected sex. My question is that I pill sufficient or she had to take another I pill now? Before the first intercourse, she had completed her periods just before a day.
Dr. Karuna Chawla
BHMS
Homeopath, Noida
She needs to repeat ipill. Ipill can prevent pregnancies which happened before it’s consumtipn, not after that.
1 person found this helpful
It bleeds out while having sex, it ok when it happened for first or second time but instead of this every time when I had sex and it starts bleeding, I am little worried now can you please tell me is everything ok or not? Thanks.
Dr. Danish Ali
MBBS,MD(medicine), PGDS(sexology), Fellowship in sexual medicines, Certified Sexologist of USA
Sexologist, Jaipur
It is ok for few time, but try to stop sex for a week, to make back your bleeding point normal as of it is a chance of some local tissue of skin damage while sexual activity. So no need to worry just make rest for penis for a while and then consult me about your condition.
1 person found this helpful
View All Feed
Near By Doctors
85%
(10 ratings)
Dr. Divya Wadhawan
MBBS, DNB (Obstetrics and Gynecology), Fellowship in USG, Laprascopic Training Infertility
Gynaecologist
Narang Medical Center,
₹0 at clinic
Book Appointment
85%
(10 ratings)
Dr. Shakuntla Shukla
DGO, MBBS, Diploma in Reproductive Medicine (Germany)
Gynaecologist
Aastha Medical Centre,
₹ at clinic
Book Appointment
88%
(189 ratings)
Dr. Mita Verma
MBBS, MS - Obstetrics & Gynaecology
Gynaecologist
Dr. Mita Verma Women's Clinic,
₹300 at clinic
Book Appointment
86%
(12 ratings)
Dr. Sadhana Kala
MBBS, MS - Obstetrics & Gynaecology , FACS (USA)
Gynaecologist
Moolchand Hospital,
₹300 at clinic
Book Appointment
85%
(10 ratings)
Dr. Yuvakshi Juneja
MBBS, MD - Obstetrics & Gynaecology
Gynaecologist
Dr. Yuvakshi Juneja's Gynaecology Clinic,
₹0 at clinic
Book Appointment
86%
(30 ratings)
Gynae & Ent Center
Gynaecologist
Delhi ENT Centre,
₹300 at clinic
Book Appointment
Find Gynaecologist nearby Nehru Place, Delhi
Gynaecologists in Kalkaji, Delhi Obstetricians in East Of Kailash, Delhi Pregnancy Specialists in Kailash Colony, Delhi Gynaecologist in C R Park, Delhi Obstetricians in Chittaranjan Park, Delhi Gynaecologist in Greater Kailash, Delhi Gynaecologist in Govindpuri Extension, Delhi Pregnancy Specialists in Lajpat Nagar, Delhi Gynaecologists in Friends Colony, Delhi Gynaecologists in Sukhdev Vihar, Delhi
Search doctors
Search doctors by city
Search doctors by City Locality
Search doctors by speciality
Search doctors by city speciality
Read Health Articles
Health Wiki
Health Tips Index
Health Questions Index
Health Quizzes Index
Health Topics Index
Medicines Index
Ailment Index
Lab Test Details Index
Read about Lybrate
About Us
Careers
Mobile Apps
Blog
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Press
Social
© 2018 Lybrate, Inc. All rights reserved.