Blog – Page 5 – Sarasota Neurology
Home
Our Practice
About Sarasota Neurology
Our Staff
Services
Info
Patient’s & Visitor’s Guide
Appointment Booking
Forms & Insurance
FAQ
Blog
Contact
Medical Missions
Office (941) 955-5858 Fax (941) 955-0044
×
Please Create a Menu
MENU
THE BLOG
Medical Articles & News
The Blog
Articles & News
Alzheimer’s Drug Shows New Promise for Headache Treatment
May 27, 2008admindanBotoxMemory Loss / Alzheimer's Disease / DementiaMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
Namenda (memantine) is the newest medication used in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. New research has shown that Namenda may be effective in treating patients with both migraine and tension headaches. The study done by John Krusz, PhD, MD showed that some patients with chronic migraines that did not do well with other headache treatments, did well with Namenda therapy. Of the migraine sufferers, there was a 56% drop in the number of migraine attacks. In patients with tension headaches there was a 62% drop in the numbers of attacks. This study was well reviewed on the website, Help for Headaches and Migraines.
Migraine and other headaches are chronic medical conditions that require aggressive preventative treatment. Many therapies have been tried but no cure has been found. Botox treatment has been promoted by the press but no clinical studies have showed that it is superior in migraine treatment than placebo. Having said that, there are certainly patients that have had migraine and headache reduction after Botox therapy.
It is important to note that the use of Namenda, Botox and most other migraine treatments are off-label uses of these and other medications. The majority of medications routinely used in the prevention of migraines are off-label. This is the standard of care in most headache clinics. If you suffer from migraines that prevent you from routine activities or interfere with work, you need to seek out help from a qualified neurologist who specializes in migraine headache treatment.
Read More
Neupro Patch for Parkinson’s Disease Recalled by FDA
May 13, 2008admindanMovement DisordersParkinson's diseaseUncategorized
Neupro patches were approved by the FDA for Parkinson’s disease treatment in September 2007. They proved to be very effective in the control of Parkinson symptoms, as compared to the effects of other dopamine agonists including Mirapex and Requip. Unfortunately, in March, the FDA recalled Neupro due to problem with the patch delivery of the medications. What they found posed no imminent danger to patients. Rather what was happening was that the active drug, rotigotine, was crystallizing in the patch therefore not delivering the full dosage of medication to the patient. What would happen is that affected patients’ Parkinson symptoms would not be as well controlled. It is not clear if Neupro patches will be brought back to market as reported on Emaxhealth.
Dopamine agonists remain one of the main Parkinson treatment medication groups available to control Parkinson symptoms. These can be used as first line medications for early Parkinson’s disease, showing as good as an effect as Sinemet – the gold standard for treatment of Parkinson’s disease. Many feel that it is beneficial and studies have shown that starting early treatment with dopamine agonists can limit the long term side effects of starting Sinemet early. This is particularly true for delaying development of dyskinesia, which are involuntary movements of arms, legs and head. Dopamine agonists can also help to suppress tremor associated with Parkinson disease.
If you are still using Neupro patches, you should contact your treating neurologist or Parkinson specialist to get the weaning patches and titrate off this drug. Many other excellent treatments for Parkinson’s disease are available. For more information visit: Parkinson Doctor.
Read More
New Migraine Treatment for Migraine Headaches
April 30, 2008admindanMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
Migraine is a very common medical condition. Migraine headaches are the second most common cause for work absences secondary only to low back pain. Unfortunately migraine is the most prevalent in the working population age group. Fortunately many new migraine treatments have been developed. The newest migraine medication that has been FDA approved is Treximet. Treximet is a combination medication. It has Imitrex with RT technology in combination with naproxen sodium (the active ingredient in Aleve.) Imitrex was the first drug in the class of triptan medications that are migraine treatment specific. Studies have shown that the Treximet formulation of the two component drugs is more effective in migraine treatment than with either drug alone. Overall, Treximet has about a 10% greater effectiveness in stopping a migraine attack with the first dose, over either of the other migraine drugs, taken alone or together.
There are several other migraine treatment medications including Maxalt, Zomig, Relpax, Frova, Amerge and Axert. All of these medications are “designer drugs” formulated specifically to treat an acute migraine attack. The most important step for any patient who suffers from headaches is to get in to see a headache specialist. Migraine and headache treatment has become a specialized area in neurology. Neurologists who treat migraine, cluster and other headache disorders take a different approach to treatment of headaches and improving the patient’s quality of life. For additional information on migraine and headache treatment click here.
Read More
Symptoms of Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus
April 22, 2008admindanMemory Loss / Alzheimer's Disease / DementiaUncategorized
Normal pressure hydrocephalus once again appears in the news. Zig Ziglar, a well known motivational speaker, recently was diagnosed with normal pressure hydrocephalus. About a year ago, Mr. Ziglar had suffered a fall down a flight of stairs, as referenced on a blog from Michael Pink. His family had noticed that Mr. Ziglar was having some memory loss associated with gait unsteadiness. The characteristic clinical symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus are gait unsteadiness, memory loss and urinary incontinence. The exact cause of this condition is unknown but what happens is there is a build up of water (spinal fluid) on the brain. Diagnosis is difficult to make and one should see a neurologist familiar with the condition. The treatment for this is putting a special tube in the brain, known as a shunt. This is a fairly routine neurosurgical procedure.
For the diagnosis of normal pressure hydrocephalus, a patient should first have a CT scan or MRI brain scan. If the spaces in the brain that contain spinal fluid (ventricles) are enlarged, the patient should then have a spinal tap. About an ounce of spinal fluid taken drained off. Then the patient will have gait testing to see if their walking improves. If it does but then worsens a few hours later, the diagnosis is made. A brain shunt can then be permanently put in by a qualified neurosurgeon. Patient’s with true normal pressure hydrocephalus can show dramatic improvements in their ability to walk with gait training rehabilitation. The urinary incontinence will also improve. Unfortunately, if they have a degree of short term memory loss, this procedure will have little if any effect on restoring memory. It is this author’s hope that Zig Ziglar has improved and is doing well with his new brain shunt. To find out more about Zig Ziglar, check his blog site.
Read More
Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus – A Rare Cause of Memory Loss & Gait Difficulty
December 3, 2007admindanMemory Loss / Alzheimer's Disease / DementiaMovement DisordersUncategorized
Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a rare disorder that is characterized by progressive gait difficulty, urinary incontinence and memory loss. Although the press has covered this topic extensively in both the written and video media, true normal pressure hydrocephalus remains quite uncommon. The underlying problem is actually an excessive build up of spinal fluid in the brain. The areas of the brain that stores this fluid are known as the ventricles. In NPH, the spinal fluid flows out of the brain but, due to reasons that are not entirely clear, there is a build up of excessive fluid in the brain. This results in enlarged ventricles causing a condition called communicating hydrocephalus.
Normal pressure hydrocephalus develops very slowly, over months to years. It is usually seen in individuals over the age of 65. As the ventricles slowly increase in size, affected patients begin to show signs of slowed, wide based, unsteady gait. Urinary incontinence may also develop during this time. Later during the disease process memory loss begins. All of the symptoms are very slowly progressive. Patients can be diagnosed incorrectly with Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, depression or just dementia.
The gait difficulty comes from the fact the the nerve fibers that control walking and balance become stretched as the ventricles enlarge. With this comes progressively worsening gait imbalance and falling. Patients may complain of weakness and fatigue. Patients will actually will tell you that their feet feel stuck to the ground, giving rise to the term magnetic gait. Memory loss seen in normal pressure involves mainly recall and slowness of thinking. Recognition of objects, tasks and individuals is better preserved. Without careful testing however, one can easily make the mistake of making an erroneous diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease versus normal pressure hydrocephalus associated dementia. Urinary incontinence is a later finding in the disease process. There is an increasing need to urinate more frequently and urgently. If the dementia progresses too far, patients will become indifferent to their incontinence.
Diagnosis is made by obtaining an MRI or CT brain scan. The ventricles appear enlarged in the absence of brain atrophy (shrinkage.) As a normal process of aging, there is a certain amount of atrophy. It other conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease, alcoholism or in patient’s who have received chemotherapy, brain atrophy can be more prominent. The key in diagnosing NPH is that the degree of ventricular enlargement is out of proportion to the expected degree of atrophy. The degree of ventricular enlargement can be measured as a ratio to the degree of atrophy. The second step in diagnosis, after a complete neurological exam, is to do a diagnostic spinal tap (lumbar puncture.) During this procedure, 1-2 ounces of spinal fluid is drained off. The patient is then tested to see if their gait improves.
Treatment for confirmed cases of normal pressure hydrocephalus is a brain surgery procedure know as a ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement. In this procedure, a tube is placed in the ventricles and the other end drains into the abdomen. The tube is run under the skin. Spinal fluid is then absorbed in the abdomen. There is no known effective medical treatment for NPH. Early diagnosis and treatment is important as the gait disorder and urinary symptoms can be alleviated. Once the memory loss has begun, this cannot be reversed.
In order to have the accurate diagnosis of normal pressure hydrocephalus, a patient should be seen by a neurologist or neurosurgeon familiar with the condition. It is not necessarily easily diagnosed, even by experienced physicians. Nonspecific gait disorder is common with advancing age. Dementia is also common, particularly over the age of 70. Stroke, Parkinson’s disease and low thyroid can mimic the symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus. The main point is that of all these conditions, true normal pressure hydrocephalus occurs very rarely and is generally considered a diagnosis of exclusion of every other problem plus meet the diagnostic criteria listed above.
Read More
Seizures – Medication Treatment Offers Hope For a Normal LIfestyle
November 19, 2007admindanSeizuresStrokeUncategorized
Seizures are the manifestation of uncontrolled electrical activity in the brain. Affected individuals show clinical symptoms of seizures with twitching or jerking of one side or their entire body. With this they can make gasping noises, turn blue in the face, bite their tongue or lose control of their bladder. These symptoms are charateristic of a grand mal seizure. During an epileptic attacks, the person is not responsive or aware of what is going on around them. Fortunately there is excellent treatment available to control seizures and in many cases, keep patients seizure free.
It is estimated that there are 2-3 million individuals in the United States who suffer from recurrent seizures (epilepsy.) Many of these people are neurologically intact with the cause of their seizures being unknown. It is estimated that up to 10 percent of the population will suffer a single seizure in their life time. This does not mean that they will go on to have recurrent seizures or epilepsy. The average lifetime risk of having recurrent seizures is 3 percent.
Risk of developing seizures include prior head injuries, alcohol or drug abuse, stroke, meningitis or other brain infections. Brain damage from trauma, surgery or tumors can also predispose to seizures. For anyone who has even a single seizure, they should see a neurologist for a complete evaluation. A minimum of screening lab work, an EEG (electroencephalogram) and MRI brain scan should be done. Of course a complete history and physical (neurological) exam is also required. One important point to remember is that a normal EEG does not exclude the possibility that a patient suffers from seizures. In fact, approximately 70 percent of patients with recurrent seizures will have a normal EEG at all times other than during the time when they are having a seizure.
Fortunately there are several excellent seizure preventing medications (anticonvulsants) available. For decades, Dilantin, Tegretol and Depakote were the mainstay in seizure treatment. In the 1990s, several new anticonvulsants received FDA approval. These included Felbatol, Topamax, Lamictal, Neurontin, Keppra and Zonegran. In 2005, the FDA approved Lyrica for treatment of seizures. Although highly effective in controlling and stopping seizures, the newer anticonvulsants are overall no more effective than the older agents. One benefit of the newer agents is that they do not require as much lab monitoring as the older agents. Some anticonvulsants, such as Lamictal, Neurontin and Lyrica require no lab monitoring.
In summary, patient with recurrent seizures (epilepsy) or for those that have had a single seizure but are at high risk for further seizures, there are a number of therapeutic options available to control their seizures and improve their quality of life. Many patients can have complete control of their seizures, meaning seizure free, with appropriate evaluation and treatment. Most neurologically intact individuals can lead normal lives with specific seizure care by a neurologist. This fact has been shown through many studies on seizures and is the foundation of evidence based medicine for seizure control. It is critical that they see a neurologist as soon as possible, after their first attack, so that proper evaluation and treatment can be started.
Read More
Myasthenia Gravis – A Rare Muscle Weakness Disorder
November 5, 2007admindanMovement DisordersNerve DiseasesNerve PainUncategorized
Myasthenia gravis is a rare disorder of muscle weakness, affecting approximately 70,000 individuals in the United States. Many confuse this with multiple sclerosis. Multiple sclerosis is a central nervous system disorder affecting the insulation (myelin) on nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. In contrast myasthenia gravis is a muscle disease where transmission of electrical impulses to the muscle fail. This results in the muscle not contracting fully, resulting in weakness. This condition can selectively affect the eye muscles, muscles of the head and neck or be generalized affecting all muscle, including the diaphragm. If the diaphragm is involved, patients can have varying degrees of breathing problems, including respiratory failure.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is the standard model of a neurological autoimmune disorder. It is the the best understood of all autoimmune diseases. In autoimmune diseases, the body’s immune system fails to recognize a particular body system as being part of “itself.” In MG, the immune system does not recognize the transmitter receptors for acetylcholine (the muscle communication transmitter) as being part of the body’s own system. The immune system for antibodies against the receptors and attacks them. With fewer receptors on the muscle membrane, the muscle does not get the full chemical message to contract. This causes affected individuals to have weakness in the muscles affected by MG. These antibodies can be detected by a blood test for acetylcholine receptor antibodies. It is important to note, however, that not all patients with myasthenia will have a positive antibody test, known as a false negative (as high as 25%.) Particularly patients with ocular myasthenia frequently have negative tests. This does not mean that they do not have the condition.
Diagnosis of myasthenia is based on a careful medical history and detailed neurological exam. All patients with MG have some degree of visual symptoms including double vision or eyelid drooping. The presence of variable eyelid drooping, particularly if it shifts from side to side, is virtually diagnostic of myasthenia gravis. Confirmatory tests can include EMG testing and a chemical test known as the Tensilon test. Tensilon (edrophonium) is a chemical that temporarily blocks the enzyme that stops the action of acetylcholine. This has the effect of making the acetylcholine receptors that are “on” stay on longer, thereby combating weakness. Patient’s with suspected myasthenia can be given Tensilon. This short acting drug will temporarily reverse the weakness that myasthenic patients have. Other lab work should be performed to exclude other muscle diseases, thyroid problems or other metabolic problems that could cause muscle weakness.
Once the diagnosis is made, patients can be treated with Mestinon ( pyridostigmine.) Mestinon is a long acting version of Tensilon and works by inhibiting cholinesterase, the chemical that breaks down acetylcholine. If we did not have this enzyme, we could not relax our muscles. When acetylcholine is removed from the muscle receptor the muscle no longer contracts. Mestinon works well for symptomatic relief of the muscle weakness and associated symptoms of MG. Other symptoms associated with weakness can include chewing and swallowing difficulties, weakness of breathing with shortness of breath and generalized weakness. Double vision and drooping eyelids, conditions made worse by being in bright sun light, are frequent complaints.
For patients that have persistent symptoms, despite Mestinon therapy, clinicians will frequently employ the use of immunosuppressant therapy that will dampen the response of the immune system. This has the effect of limiting the destruction of the acetylcholine receptors on the muscle membrane surface. The most commonly used drug for this is Prednisone, a steroid drug, frequently used to treat autoimmune disorders. Although Prednisone works very well, it has its downside. Prednisone side effects can include weight gain, elevated blood sugar, cataracts, accelerated osteoporosis and other serious medical problems. Other immunosuppressants have been used with success. These include Imuran (azathioprine), cyclosporine, Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide) and CellCept (mycophenolate.) While being helpful in treating MG, these powerful immunosuppresants have their own lists of potential side effects. The purpose of immunosuppressant therapy is to cause myasthenia to go into remission. This is not always successful.
For patient’s with a severe worsening of their myasthenia symptoms, hospitalization may be necessary. Higher dosage, intravenous steroids can be given in combination with a blood filtering technique, known as plasmaphersis. The latter is used to filter out the acetylcholine receptor antibodies. A surgical technique, thymectomy, can be used to remove the thymus gland in the chest. This gland is responsible for making the cells that make the acetylcholine receptor antibodies.
Myasthenia gravis is a serious neurological condition and autoimmune disease characterized by muscle weakness that can affect vision, swallowing, breathing and general activities. Serious complications, including respiratory failure, can develop for untreated patients. Affected individuals should seek out care from a board certified neurologist, preferably one specializing in movement disorders or neuromuscular disease.
Read More
Do I Really Need a Laptop?
October 29, 2007admindanComputersUncategorized
This is a question I hear many times in my daily routine from individuals wanting to buy a laptop computer. Many times people think that they want a laptop because they are “cool” or “neat.” While laptop computerss can be very useful in certain situations, they are not necessarily the best option for many people. I generally suggest that if you need the portability or if room is a major consideration, then consider a laptop. This is particularly true if you are on the road or travel a great deal. Laptops in these situations can be helpful, if you are going to take them with you. If you are not and generally use them at home, I would suggest that a PC be considered. The advantages of a PC over a laptop is that they can be configured much easier, are generally less expensive and if something breaks it is easy to fix. Additionally, it you want to add more features through putting in different computer cards, it is just a matter of opening the case and putting the new card in.
Laptops on the other hand are not easy to modify once you have one. Many of the components are built right onto the mother board. Although some items such as the hard drive or memory strips (RAM) can be switched out, most of the other components are fixed. If you have trouble with your laptop malfunctioning, it all most always needs to be serviced by a trained technician. In other words, it a particular part of the laptop fails, you will need to get it serviced under warranty or take it to a computer shop. Either option is time consuming and/or expensive. A desktop PC on the other hand can frequently be serviced by your self, with a little knowledge and help from your computer manufacturer technical support team, as long as you computer is under warranty. This is why I strongly suggest that you purchase as long of a warranty as is available, for any computer, including and particularly laptops. Additionally, desktops a functionally easier to use, being able to hook printers and scanners into them with ease. The array of custom PC cards with specialized function is also much more readily available for your PC than your laptop.
In summary, a desktop PC is much more practical, generally more powerful and less expensive than a laptop. Adding better or more sophisticated computer components (including sound systems) is much easier. Still, it you need the portability, there is nothing better than a laptop for this. The smaller screen laptops are great for traveling. If you are not going to be moving the laptop around that much, I would suggest getting a 15 or 17 inch LCD screen. Your eyes will much appreciate this. If you need portability then I would recommend the smaller laptops with 12 inch screens. General computer configurations should include Windows XP (Pro if you want to network other computers), 200-300 GB hard drive space, 1-2 GB RAM memory, DVD burner, 19-20 inch LCD screen and good video and audio card. Don’t forget to have both antivirus and spyware protection software installed and kept up to date. For reviews on various systems, try going to PC World computer reviews for desktops or laptops. PC World also has reviews on video and sound cards as well as printers. Good luck.
Read More
Stroke Prevention – A Better Way of Stroke Treatment
October 22, 2007admindanGeneral MedicineHigh CholesterolStrokeUncategorized
Stroke occurs when a blood vessel in the brain becomes blocked or ruptures. The most common form of stroke is due to blockage of a blood vessel. Blood vessel blockage is caused by a condition known as
atherosclerosis, commonly known as “hardening of the arteries.” This is the most common type of stroke. Stroke is one of the three major leading causes of death in the United States. The other two are heart attack and cancer. Stroke is the leading cause of disability in the U.S. It is for this reason that it is much wiser to focus on stroke prevention in the first place rather than trying to limit the damage with stroke treatment after event has occurred. High blood pressure (hypertension) is the single biggest, treatable risk factor for stroke. In the 1970s, there was a push by the medical community to aggressively treat high blood pressure to lower the risk of stroke, premature heart disease and kidney failure. One cannot feel that their blood pressure is elevated but the damage to major body organs (heart, brain, kidneys) continues on. It is only when these organs start to fail or a stoke occurs, will it become apparent that a given individual may have hypertension. On occasion, patients with untreated hypertension may have headaches. Fortunately checking one’s own blood pressure is easy. This can be done at your doctor’s office, pharmacies or the local fire department. If you have high blood pressure with the top number greater than 150 or the lower number greater than 85, you need to see a physician for treatment. Fortunately there are many different types of medication to treat high blood pressure. Many patients can be successfully treated with a single drug, for mild hypertension. Individuals with moderate to more severe hypertension, multiple drug therapy may be necessary. With the aggressive push to treat high blood pressure, the rate of stroke in the United States has dropped dramatically over the past two decades. There is a class of blood pressure medication, the ACE inhibitors, that have been shown in well designed clinical studies to significantly reduce the risk of stroke independent of their ability to lower blood pressure. Current evidence based medicine strongly suggests that addition of an ACE inhibitor should be done in patients with high blood pressure, even if their blood pressure is adequately controlled on other agents. Ideal blood pressure range should be with the upper number (systolic) being less than 130 and the lower number (diastolic) less than 80.
It has been well known for several decades that aspirin thins out the blood. Cardiologists have used aspirin extensively for 30 years to lower the risk of having a heart attack. Aspirin slows down the formation of clots by blocking the clumping of platelets to form blood clots. In 1994 a hallmark study, the Antiplatelet Trialists’ Collaboration, was published demonstrating the clear benefit of aspirin in the prevention of stroke and transient ischemic attacks (TIA, “mini strokes”.) In 1998, the FDA approved labeling of aspirin for the prevention of TIA and stroke. Dosage recommendations in the range of 81-325 mg daily should be used. Unfortunately aspirin does not entirely prevent stroke or TIA from occurring. Other blood thinning agents can be used in patients who fail aspirin therapy. The other two agents are Plavix and Aggrenox. Either agent can be used in patients who have had a TIA or stroke while taking aspirin. In patients who have no history of heart disease, Aggrenox is the preferred agent. Plavix is preferred in those patients who have known coronary artery disease.
Lastly, high cholesterol has been implicated in the development of accelerated atherosclerosis. There have been studies that have shown some correlation of high cholesterol with the increased risk of having a stroke. Multiple, double-blind, placebo controlled studies have shown that the use of cholesterol lowering statin drugs for cholesterol reduction results in an average of a 27% overall secondary risk decrease in stroke. Studies are ongoing to show if statins may help in primary prevention of stroke and TIA. At this time, it is prudent to be on a statin drug, for cholesterol reduction. The currently available statins include: Lipitor, Zocor, Pravachol, Crestor or Mevacor if you have a cholesterol over 200. The marked benefit of this class of drugs on the reduction of stroke and cardiac events (35%) is dramatic and strongly supports more aggressive treatment for high cholesterol (hyperlipidemia.) The objective is to have a total cholesterol less than 180, good cholesterol (HDL) of greater than 50 and bad cholesterol (LDL) less than 100. A recent study published in the journal Stroke reported that discontinuing statin therapy in the year after a stroke is associated with a significant increase in the risk for death, even in the absence of heart disease.
Medications are not the only treatment for stroke prevention. Smoking is associated with a 2-3 times greater risk of stroke and bleeding in the brain. Smoking also contributes to the accelerated development of heart disease, emphysema and peripheral artery disease. Chantix is a new medication that received FDA approval to help stop smoking. Exercise is important in maintaining overall body conditioning and weight control. This in turn leads to an overall lowering of blood pressure and cholesterol. In summary, stroke prevention is much easier and cost effective than fixing the problem after someone has a stroke. This approach to stroke reduces mortality and disability for the entire United States population. The cost saving are in the hundreds of billions of dollars over stroke treatment. If you feel that you are at risk for stroke, contact a neurologist for evaluation and treatment.
Read More
New Findings in Restless Legs Syndrome
October 8, 2007admindanMovement DisordersUncategorized
One of the most frustrating neurological conditions is restless legs syndrome (RLS.) It is characterized by an intense overwhelming need to move your legs at night or when sitting or resting. This can be so severe that affected individuals have difficulty sitting through a movie or driving in a car for any distance. Occasionally RLS can be associated with abnormal sensation, particularly in the feet and lower legs. The abnormal sensory symptoms are a form of peripheral neuropathy that is associated with RLS. Symptoms can be so severe as to be an impairment to sleep and feeling of well being. RLS is consider to be a form of sleep disorder, even though individuals can have symptoms during the day, while awake. New research findings that were reported in the New England Journal of Medicine indicates that there is a genetic component to RLS. There are many who doubt the actual existence of RLS but those affected with this condition would disagree. As a movement disorder specialist, having seen many patients with this condition, there is no question that it is real. To ignore the medical literature and scientific evidence on the existence of RLS is foolish.
RLS can markedly impair the quality of life of affected individuals. They typically have chronic sleep deficit with a higher incidence of depression. The recent report on the genetic linkage of families with members affected with RLS is fascinating. Another common sleep condition, periodic limb movements of sleep, shows a stronger genetic correlation to run in families due to a specific genetic sequence variant at the 6p chromosome. Many of these individuals have RLS. If one isolates out the patients with RLS only, the genetic linkage becomes less clear. It is perhaps that RLS represents a subset of individuals with some chromosomal variation. This may serve as a marker for potential development of RLS in patients who have a history of RLS or periodic limb movements of sleep. These individuals can also have trouble with elevation in their blood pressure as well as other conditions associated with long standing sleep deprivation. There are several excellent treatment options for RLS including the dopamine agonists, Klonopin, low dose mild narcotics and other medications. If you are affected with this condition, it is important to get medical help as excellent treatment exists to control symptoms.
Read More
Prev
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Next
Search
Recent Posts
Aimovig
Professional and Olympic Athletes Using Platelet Rich Plasma for Joint Pain and Muscle Injuries
Platelet Rich Plasma PRP Therapy in Sarasota Florida for Joint and Foot Pain
Does Insurance Cover Botox Injections for Migraine Headaches?
Podcast: Stroke – Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease
Recent Comments
Archives
June 2018
January 2016
May 2015
March 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
November 2013
March 2013
May 2012
November 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
December 2010
October 2010
March 2010
January 2010
October 2009
September 2009
July 2009
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
April 2007
January 2007
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
Categories
Back Pain
Botox
Brain Stimulation
Computers
General Medicine
High Cholesterol
Memory Loss / Alzheimer's Disease / Dementia
Migraines / Headache
Movement Disorders
Nerve Diseases
Nerve Pain
Neuropathy
Pain
Parkinson's disease
Platelet Rich Plasma
Podcast
Seizures
Stroke
Uncategorized
Vertigo / Dizziness
Welcome
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Phone (941) 955-5858 Fax: (941) 955-0044
info@sarasotaneurology.com
3501 Cattlemen Rd, Sarasota, FL 34232
Facebook
Latest News
Aimovig Jun 20
Professional and Olympic Athletes Using Platelet Rich Plasma for Joint Pain and Muscle Injuries Jan 12
Platelet Rich Plasma PRP Therapy in Sarasota Florida for Joint and Foot Pain May 28
Does Insurance Cover Botox Injections for Migraine Headaches? Mar 3
Podcast: Stroke - Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease Dec 10
Copyright ©2018 all rights reserved
Designed by YoHoHosting