Best Scar Cream | Hypoallergenic Cream For Scars
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots
developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Home
Faq
Press
Contact us
Buy Now
3 Easy Steps
Compare Scar Treatments
Compare Treatments
Clinical Studies
Ingredient Comparison Chart
Scar Therapy Safety
What’s in your Scar Cream?
Ingredients to Look For
Aloe Vera
Dimethicone Silicone
Essential Fatty Acids
Licorice
Vitamin C
Ingredients to Avoid
Hydroquinone
Kojic Acid
Preservatives & Fragrances
Vitamin E
Testimonials
Testimonials
Customers
Medical Professionals
Results
Results
Before & After Photos
How InviCible Works
Our Clinical Results
Blog
About us
Our Mission
HOW TO PICK THE BEST SCAR CREAM FOR YOUR SKIN
What is the best scar cream for your skin? All scar products claim to improve scar appearance or texture, but how do you know which one is really best for you?
While virtually all scar creams make amazing claims, very few have any scientific evidence to support them. Ironically, some products can even make scars worse.
Several products contain Vitamin E. Many people swear by vitamin E. Some doctors even recommend it. Surprisingly, studies show that in up to 90% of cases, vitamin E fails to improve, or even worsens scars. To add insult to injury, 1 in 3 people develop an allergic dermatitis (redness, itching, swelling and flaking). People seeing any improvement in their scars after using vitamin E are likely only seeing the benefits of moisturizing the scar. At best, vitamin E is therefore no better than plain petroleum jelly (ie Vaseline).
Onion extract is another fairly common ingredient. What do the studies show?…. Again, it is no better than plain petroleum jelly when it comes to improving scar appearance.
Most skin care products contain water. Water encourages bacterial growth after the product container is opened and the cream can then become contaminated. Preservatives like parabens, methlyparabens and formaldehyde prevent bacteria growing but can also be very irritating to the skin. Allergies to formaldehyde occur in 9% of people.
Whichever scar cream you choose, we recommend you avoid these ingredients whenever possible to decrease the risk of allergic skin reactions.
InviCible contains only hypoallergenic ingredients. It contains NO preservatives or fragrances. Due to it’s superior safety profile, InviCible was awarded the National Parenting Center Seal of Approval and was also voted a Champion in The Compact for Safe Cosmetics by Skin Deep.
InviCible is also very user-friendly and very easy to use after face, tummy and breast surgery. You simply massage it into the scar.
Please visit our photo gallery to view our before and after pictures.
Order our scar treatment on Amazon.
Comments are closed.
Results
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Testimonials
I just wanted to thank you for what Invicible adds to my facial plastic surgery practice. It's composed of all the... Read More
I have been using InviCible for 3 weeks and I can’t believe what a difference I notice. My c-section scar is... Read More
Home
About us
Buy Now
Buy Wholesale
FAQ
Media
Newsletter
Contact us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
GDPR Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Sitemap
Get Rid of Scars
Acne Scars
Burns
C-Section
Dark Scars
Face Scars
Hypertrophic Scars
New or Old Scars
Surgery
Scar Healing
How Does InviCible Work?
Improve How Your Scars Heal
Plastic Surgery Scars
Breast Surgery
Facelift
Tummy Tuck
Skin Treatments
Chemical Peels
Skin Resurfacing
Tattoo Scars
Get Rid of Dark Spots
Melasma
Skin Spots/Age Spots
Uneven Skin Tone
Compare Scar Treatments
Ingredient Comparison Chart
Clinical Studies
What's In Your Scar Cream?
Scar Therapy Safety
Ingredients to Look For
Dimethicone Silicone
ProBiosyn-4
Vitamin C
Ingredients to Avoid
Bleaching Agents
Preseratives & Fragrances
Vitamin E
Testimonials
Consumers
Medical Professionals
Results
Before & After Photos
Studies
© Copyright 2019 InviCible Scars
Website Design by Imagemme
Email: weloveourcustomers@inviciblescars.com
X