Osteoarthritis
R. A. A. I. D.
R. A. A. I. D. Search Engine
Site Policies & Terms
Contact Us
About Us
Site Map
Autoimmune Diseases
Autoimmune Diseases List >
Autoimmune Diseases: Quick Links Dictionary >
Diseases A - B >
Diseases C - D
Diseases G - H
Diseases L - M
Diseases R - S
Diseases V - W
Diseases E - F
Diseases I - K
Diseases O - P
Diseases T - U
The Medical Terms Reference Dictionary >
The Phonetic Key Home Page
Medical Terms & Words
Magnetic Resonance Image / MRI
Electromyography / EMG
Echocardiogram
Blood Analysis
Muscle Biopsy
Autoimmunity >
Immunity
Dysphagia
Atrophy
LUPUS / (SLE) Glossary: Medical Terms & Phrases >
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)
Drug Induced Lupus
What Is ANA Testing
Avascular Necrosis
Urinalysis Test
Autoimmune Disease Reference Links >
Drugs & Medication links
Health & Wellness Links
Diet & Fitness Links
Medical Diagnosis Checkers >
Diagnosis Research Checker
Medical Dictionary Checker
Disease Diagnosis Checker
Minor Illnesses Checker
Drug Interactions & Properties Checker
Medication & Treatment >
Medication Guidelines >
Alternative Medicines
Alternative Treatments & Complementary RSS Feeds
Complementary and Alternative Meds List
NSAIDs Medication Guide >
Nsaids
Side Effects of NSAIDs
NSAIDs Fact Sheet
Classes of NSAIDs
DMARDs Medication Guide >
DMARDs Fact Sheet
Biologic Fact Sheet
DMARDs List
Nsaids List
Diet & Nutrition >
Diabetes: Type 1 & Type 2
Preventing Diabetes
Causes Of Diabetes
Eating & Diabetes
Fitness & Exercise >
What Is Cardiomyopathy >
Diagnosing Cardiomyopathy
Health Benefits of Tai Chi >
List of Tai Chi Chuan Forms
24 Form Tai Chi Chuan
Healthy Sleep Guide
Asthma & COPD
Polymyositis >
Antigens Antibodies & Autoantibodies >
Images of Antigens Antibodies & Autoantibodies
Creatine Phosphokinase Test
What Is Creatine Kinase
Antibody Classes
What Is IVIG
Lupus/SLE >
LUPUS / SLE & Overlapping
FAQ About Lupus / SLE
Juvenile Myositis >
How To Treat JM / JDM
Signs & Symptoms of Autoimmune Disease
Common Symptoms & Autoimmune Diseases >
Signs & Symptoms: A - B >
Signs & Symptoms: C - D
Signs & Symptoms: G - H
Signs & Symptoms: L - M
Signs & Symptoms: R - S
Signs & Symptoms: V - W
Signs & Symptoms: E - F
Signs & Symptoms: I - K
Signs & Symptoms: O - P
Signs & Symptoms: T - U
Body Parts Affected By Autoimmune Diseases >
The Human Body & Autoimmune Diseases
The Endocrine System
The Muscular System
The Nervous System
The Skeletal System
Autoimmune Disease Risks and Symptoms Checklist >
Fever / Body Temperature
Hair Loss
Skin
Eyes
Throat
Neck
Voice
Mouth
Muscles
Joints
Tendons
Weight Loss
Weight Gain
Breathing
Neurological Symptoms
Classes of Autoimmune Diseases Info-graphic's
100 FAQ's / A's About Autoimmune Diseases
FYI (For Your Information) >
Autoimmune Diseases & Related Conditions List
How To Find A Specialist
How To Fight Brain Fog >
Memory Loss
Forgetfulness
Massage Therapy
FAQ's About Inflammation >
Autoimmune Disease & Inflammatory Diseases
Inflammatory Myopathies
Differential Diagnosis of Inflammatory Myopathies
Inclusion Body Myositis RSS Feeds
Dermatomyositis RSS Feeds
Polymyositis RSS Feeds
FAQ's About Diseases >
Connective Tissue Disorders
Connective Tissue List
Autoimmune Disease & Medical RSS Feeds
Autoimmune Disease & Overlapping Conditions
Overlapping Diseases Chart
FAQ's About Diet >
Diet Nutrition & IBD
Constipation
Autoimmune Disease & Gluten Intolerance
The Dietary Guidelines Manual For Americans
FAQ's About Foods >
100 Healthiest Foods List
36 Anti-Inflammatory Foods
Medications & Specific Foods
Medications & Grapefruit
Food & Drug Interaction
Food Allergies
FAQ's About Drugs >
Managing Your Medication
Common Drugs & Meds Directory From A - to - Z
Herbal Drugs & Foods
Herbal Interactions
Herbal Drugs List
FAQ's About Pain >
Opioids & Pain Medications
Opioid Medications & Classification of Drugs
Common Pain Killers
Pain & Medication
FAQ's About Vitamins >
Vitamins & Minerals
Dietary Supplements
Dietary & Supplemental Terms
FAQ's Miscellaneous >
Genetic / Rare Disease Listings & Resources
Rheumatic Diseases & Arthritis Conditions
Rheumatism & Weather
Rheumatologist
Arthritis >
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Arthritis Checklist
Reactive Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Autoimmune Disease: Downloadable pdf's
Drugs & Medications
Medicines By Design
Prescription Drugs
Acetaminophen
Drug Abuse
Autoimmune Diseases Awareness Calendar
Osteoarthritis
Sometimes it is called degenerative joint disease. Osteoarthritis mostly affects cartilage (KAR-til-uj), the hard but slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones where they meet to form a joint. Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over one another. It also absorbs energy from the shock of physical movement. In osteoarthritis, the surface layer of cartilage breaks and wears away. This allows bones under the cartilage to rub together, causing pain, swelling, and loss of motion of the joint. Over time, the joint may lose its normal shape. Also, small deposits of bone—called osteophytes or bone spurs—may grow on the edges of the joint. Bits of bone or cartilage can break off and float inside the joint space. This causes more pain and damage.
Osteoarthritis (AH-stee-oh-ar-THREYE-tis)
is the most common type of arthritis and
is seen especially among older people.
Various
Types
Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Neonatal Arthritis
Erosive Arthritis
Juvenile Arthritis
Traumatic Arthritis
Bacterial Arthritis
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness & Exercise
Medication & Treatment
Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a joint disease that mostly affects cartilage. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint. Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over each other. It also helps absorb shock of movement.
What Causes Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis usually happens gradually over time.
Some risk factors that might lead to it include:
Being overweight
Getting older
Joint injury
Joints that are not properly formed
A genetic defect in joint cartilage
Stresses on the joints from certain jobs and playing sports.
How Does Osteoarthritis Affect People?
People with osteoarthritis usually experience joint pain and stiffness. The most commonly affected joints are those at the ends of the fingers (closest to the nail), thumbs, neck, lower back, knees, and hips. Osteoarthritis affects different people differently. It may progress quickly, but for most people, joint damage develops gradually over years. In some people, osteoarthritis is relatively mild and interferes little with day-to-day life; in others, it causes significant pain and disability.
Osteoarthritis Basics: The Joint and Its Parts A joint is the point where two or more bones are connected. With a few exceptions (in the skull and pelvis, for example), joints are designed to allow movement between the bones and to absorb shock from movements like walking or repetitive motions. These movable joints are made up of the following parts:
Cartilage: A hard but slippery coating on the end of each bone. Cartilage breaks down and wears away in osteoarthritis.
Joint capsule: A tough membrane sac that encloses all the bones and other joint parts.
Synovium (sin-O-vee-um): A thin membrane inside the joint capsule that secretes synovial fluid.
Synovial fluid: A fluid that lubricates the joint and keeps the cartilage smooth and healthy.
Ligaments, tendons, and muscles: Tissues that surround the bones and joints, and allow the joints to bend and move. Ligaments are tough, cord-like tissues that connect one bone to another.
Tendons: Tough, fibrous cords that connect muscles to bones. Muscles are bundles of specialized cells that, when stimulated by nerves, either relax or contract to produce movement.
How Do You Know if You Have Osteoarthritis?
Usually, osteoarthritis comes on slowly. Early in the disease, your joints may ache after physical work or exercise. Later on, joint pain may become more persistent. You may also experience joint stiffness, particularly when you first wake up in the morning or have been in one position for a long time.
Although osteoarthritis can occur in any joint, most often it affects the hands, knees, hips, and spine (either at the neck or lower back). Different characteristics of the disease can depend on the specific joint(s) affected. For information on the joints most often affected by osteoarthritis, see the following descriptions:
Hands: Osteoarthritis of the hands seems to have some hereditary characteristics; that is, it runs in families. If your mother or grandmother has or had osteoarthritis in their hands, you’re at greater-than-average risk of having it too. Women are more likely than men to have osteoarthritis in the hands. For most women, it develops after menopause.
Knees: The knees are among the joints most commonly affected by osteoarthritis. Symptoms of knee osteoarthritis include stiffness, swelling, and pain, which make it hard to walk, climb, and get in and out of chairs and bathtubs. Osteoarthritis in the knees can lead to disability.
Hips: The hips are also common sites of osteoarthritis. As with knee osteoarthritis, symptoms of hip osteoarthritis include pain and stiffness of the joint itself. But sometimes pain is felt in the groin, inner thigh, buttocks, or even the knees. Osteoarthritis of the hip may limit moving and bending, making daily activities such as dressing and putting on shoes a challenge.
Spine: Osteoarthritis of the spine may show up as stiffness and pain in the neck or lower back. In some cases, arthritis-related changes in the spine can cause pressure on the nerves where they exit the spinal column, resulting in weakness, tingling, or numbness of the arms and legs. In severe cases, this can even affect bladder and bowel function.
Back To Top
How Do Doctors Diagnose Osteoarthritis?
No single test can diagnose osteoarthritis; however, sometimes doctors use tests to help confirm a diagnosis or rule out other conditions that could be causing your symptoms. Most doctors use a combination of the following methods:
Clinical History - The doctor begins by asking you to describe the symptoms, when and how the condition started, as well as how the symptoms have changed over time. The doctor will also ask about any other medical problems you and close family members have and about any medications you are taking.
Physical Examination - The doctor will check your reflexes and general health, including muscle strength. The doctor will also examine bothersome joints and observe your ability to walk, bend, and carry out activities of daily living.
X Rays - X rays can help doctors determine the form of arthritis a person has and how much joint damage has been done. X rays of the affected joint can show such things as cartilage loss, bone damage, and bone spurs. But there often is a big difference between the severity of osteoarthritis as shown by the x ray and the degree of pain and disability you feel. Also, x rays may not show early osteoarthritis damage until much cartilage loss has taken place.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging Also known as MRI, - magnetic resonance imaging provides high-resolution computerized images of internal body tissues. This procedure uses a strong magnet that passes a force through the body to create these images. Doctors often use MRI tests if there is pain, if x-ray findings are minimal, and if the findings suggest damage to other joint tissues such as a ligament or the pad of connective tissue in the knee known as the meniscus.
How Is Osteoarthritis Treated?
Most successful treatment programs involve a combination of approaches tailored to the patient’s needs, lifestyle, and health. Most programs include ways to manage pain and improve function.
Exercise - Research shows that exercise is one of the best treatments for osteoarthritis. Exercise can improve mood and outlook, decrease pain, increase flexibility, strengthen the heart and improve blood flow, maintain weight, and promote general physical fitness. Exercise is also inexpensive and, if done correctly, has few negative side effects. The amount and form of exercise prescribed will depend on which joints are involved, how stable the joints are, and whether a joint replacement has already been done. Walking, swimming, and water aerobics are a few popular types of exercise for people with osteoarthritis. Your doctor and/or physical therapist can recommend specific types of exercise depending on your particular situation. Attention to rest and periods of relief from stress on the joints is also important.
Weight Control - If you are overweight or obese, you should try to lose weight. Weight loss can reduce stress on weight-bearing joints, limit further injury, increase mobility, and reduce the risk of associated health problems. A dietitian can help you develop healthy eating habits. A healthy diet and regular exercise help reduce weight.
The following types of medicines are
commonly used in treating osteoarthritis:
Over-the-counter pain relievers: Oral pain medications, such as acetaminophen, are often a first-line approach to relieve pain in people with osteoarthritis.
NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs): A large class of medications useful against both pain and inflammation, (NSAIDs)3 are a common arthritis treatment. Aspirin and ibuprofen are examples of NSAIDs.
Narcotic or central acting agents: Prescription pain relievers are sometimes prescribed when over-the-counter medications don't provide sufficient relief or when people have certain medical problems that would make traditional NSAIDs or other first-line therapies unsafe. These medications can carry risks, including the potential for addiction.
Corticosteroids: Corticosteroids are powerful anti-inflammatory hormones made naturally in the body or man-made for use as medicine. They may be injected into the affected joints to temporarily relieve pain. This is a short-term measure, generally not recommended for more than two to four treatments per year. Oral corticosteroids are not routinely used to treat osteoarthritis. They are occasionally used for inflammatory flares.
Hyaluronic acid substitutes: Sometimes called viscosupplements, hyaluronic acid substitutes are designed to replace a normal component of the joint involved in joint lubrication and nutrition. Depending on the particular product your doctor prescribes, it will be given in a series of three to five injections. These products are approved only for osteoarthritis of the knee.
Other medications: Doctors may prescribe several other medicines for osteoarthritis. They include topical pain-relieving creams, rubs, and sprays, which are applied directly to the skin over painful joints.
Non-drug Pain Relief and Alternative Therapies
People with osteoarthritis may find many non-drug ways to relieve pain. Below are some examples:
Heat and cold: Heat or cold (or a combination of the two) can be useful for joint pain. Heat can be applied in a number of different ways—with warm towels, hot packs, or a warm bath or shower—to increase blood flow and ease pain and stiffness. In some cases, cold packs (bags of ice or frozen vegetables wrapped in a towel), which reduce inflammation, can relieve pain or numb the sore area. (Check with a doctor or physical therapist to find out if heat or cold is the best treatment.)
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS): TENS is a technique that uses a small electronic device to direct mild electric pulses to nerve endings that lie beneath the skin in the painful area. TENS may relieve some arthritis pain. It seems to work by blocking pain messages to the brain and by modifying pain perception.
Massage: In this pain-relief approach, a massage therapist will lightly stroke and/or knead the painful muscles. This may increase blood flow and bring warmth to a stressed area. However, arthritis-stressed joints are sensitive, so the therapist must be familiar with the problems of the disease.
Acupuncture: When conventional medical treatment doesn't provide sufficient pain relief, people are more likely to try complementary and alternative therapies to treat osteoarthritis. Some people have found pain relief using acupuncture, a practice in which fine needles are inserted by a licensed acupuncture therapist at specific points on the skin. Scientists think the needles stimulate the release of natural, pain-relieving chemicals produced by the nervous system.
Nutritional supplements: Nutritional supplements such as glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate have been reported to improve symptoms in some people with osteoarthritis, as have certain vitamins. Additional studies have been carried out to further evaluate these claims. It is unknown whether they might change the course of disease.
Medications to Control Pain
Doctors prescribe medicines to eliminate or reduce pain and to improve functioning. Doctors consider a number of factors when choosing medicines for their patients with osteoarthritis. These include the intensity of pain, potential side effects of the medication, your medical history (other health problems you have or are at risk for), and other medications you are taking.
Because some medications can interact with one another and certain health conditions put you at increased risk of drug side effects, it's important to discuss your medication and health history with your doctor before you start taking any new medication, and to see your doctor regularly while you are taking medication. By working together, you and your doctor can find the medication that best relieves your pain with the least risk of side effects.
Surgery
For many people, surgery helps relieve the pain and disability of osteoarthritis. Surgery may be performed to achieve one or more of the following:
Removal of loose pieces of bone and cartilage from the joint if they are causing symptoms of buckling or locking (arthroscopic debridement).
Repositioning of bones (osteotomy).
Resurfacing (smoothing out) bones (joint resurfacing).
Surgeons may replace affected joints with artificial joints called prostheses. These joints can be made from metal alloys, high-density plastic, and ceramic material. Some prostheses are joined to bone surfaces with special cements. Others have porous surfaces and rely on the growth of bone into that surface (a process called biologic fixation) to hold them in place. Artificial joints can last 10 to 15 years or longer. Surgeons choose the design and components of prostheses according to their patient’s weight, sex, age, activity level, and other medical conditions.
Joint replacement advances have included the ability, in some cases, to replace only the damaged part of the knee joint, leaving undamaged parts of the joint intact, and the ability to perform hip replacement through much smaller incisions than previously possible.
The decision to use surgery depends on several factors, including the patient’s age, occupation, level of disability, pain intensity, and the degree to which arthritis interferes with his or her lifestyle. After surgery and rehabilitation, the patient usually feels less pain and swelling and can move more easily.
Rheumatism
& Weather
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid
Arthritis
Arthritis
Back To Top
Info on this page was last updated and verified on MAY 4th, 2017 P.S.T.
"PLEASE NOTE" This website uses tracking technologies. For info on how it is used please refer to our Site Policies.
Advertisement
R. A. A. I. D.
(Raising Awareness of
Auto - immune Disease)
An organization created by Weishendo Publications which is dedicated to Raising the Awareness of Auto-immune Diseases, by using multimedia as a platform to reach others. We are committed to reaching those who are unaware of the effects, by sharing knowledge about these and other illnesses, and how they affect our society.
Advertisement
HOME
About Us
Contact Us
Site Policies
Site Map
FAQ's
AUTOIMMUNE
DISEASES:
SYSTEMIC LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS
ECZEMA (Atopic Dermatitis)
OSTEOPOROSIS
ASTHMA / COPD
GRAVE'S A.K.A. (Basedow's Disease)
ADDISON'S DISEASE (Hypocortisolism)
CELIAC DISEASE (Sprue or Coeliac)
ARTHRITIS (different forms & types)
POLYMYOSITIS
MEDICATION
& DRUGS:
PAINKILLERS
DMARDS LIST
NSAIDS LIST
HERBAL DRUGS LIST
MANAGING MEDICATION
MEDICATION DIRECTORY A - Z
PAIN & MEDICATION
SPECIALTY
DISORDERS:
DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS
CONNECTIVE TISSUE DISEASES
CONNECTIVE TISSUE LIST
INFLAMMATORY DISEASES
INFLAMMATORY MYOPATHIES
OVERLAPPING CONDITIONS
OVERLAPPING DISEASE CHART
DIET NUTRITION & IBD
SPECIFIC
RSS FEEDS:
INCLUSION BODY MYOSITIS
DERMATOMYOSITIS
POLYMYOSITIS
MEDICAL RSS FEEDS
ALTERNATIVE TREATMENT
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Search only trustworthy HONcode health websites:
© 2007 - 2019
Weishendo Publications Inc.