Light news, articles and information:
Home About NaturalNews Contact Us Write for NaturalNews Media Info Advertise with Natural News
Light news, articles and information:
Tweet
Pin It
Photoimmunotherapy: Treating cancer cells with light now proven to work
11/27/2016 - A new, experimental, natural treatment modality for cancer is showing promise. Developed by Dr. Kerstin Stenson, MD, photoimmunotherapy (PIT) is a technique combining the immune system's ability to target cancer cells precisely with laser energy's abilities to destroy cancer cells. PIT works by delivering...
Cities are changing streetlights after learning that LED lights are too 'blue'
10/7/2016 - They help cut energy costs and make the nighttime street lighting around town a bit less orange and abrasive. But cutting-edge LED illumination is already on its way out in many cities following a warning by the American Medical Association (AMA) that low color temperature lighting, like the kind used...
LED blue light wavelengths linked to cancer, cardiovascular disease and impaired vision
9/30/2016 - Could LED lights be hazardous to your health? Well, it certainly seems like they might be. The American Medical Association (AMA) has just issued a warning that high-intensity LED streetlights emit blue light – which cannot be seen. Blue light is known for disrupting sleeping patterns, and can...
How scientists discovered the benefits of vitamin D, and why getting enough of it can save your life
9/23/2016 - When humans are exposed to sunlight, their skin produces vitamin D, a fat-soluble vitamin that offers many health benefits. These benefits include helping maintain a healthy immune system, and the growth and development of bones and teeth. The following excerpt from the book, Solar Power for Optimal...
Mind control: New light technology can manipulate memories, emotions and thoughts
8/31/2016 - New research on mice has shown that blue light stimulation of brain cells can recover memories in mice with Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, they found that artificial reactivation of positive memories through light could suppress the effects of stress-induced depression. A team led by RIKEN Brain...
Warning: Cell phone 'light pollution' is taking a physical toll on your body
8/17/2016 - Whether in the form of video games, phones, fluorescent lighting, computers, TVs or handheld devices, artificial light interferes with one of the most important biological processes of the human body: sleep. According to research from the Netherlands' Leiden University Medical Center, artificial light...
Light alcohol consumption tied to increased risk of breast cancer in women
6/27/2016 - In 1987, a working group of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) – an agency of the World Health Organization (WHO) – listed cancers of the oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, esophagus and liver as "causally related to the consumption of alcoholic beverages." After a review...
Another huge benefit of sunshine exposure: Nitric oxide production boosts cardiovascular health
5/8/2016 - As sunlight shines through the sheets of rain, we stare in awe at the arcing rainbow of colors appearing across the sky. Perhaps this beautiful geometry and spectrum of colors is an indication of an eclectic palette of medicines existing in the sun's rays. For a moment, as the rainbow comes into view,...
Could artificial light be making you fat? Or even worse, giving you cancer?
2/24/2016 - Hormone changes caused by artificial light at night (ALAN) may be partially responsible for rising global rates of obesity and cancer, according to recent studies conducted by researchers from the University of Haifa, Israel, and published in the journals Chronobiology International and the International...
Artificial light is toxic to human biology and mental states
2/19/2016 - Various forms of artificial lighting that we depend on contain larger amounts of the blue spectrum than does natural sunlight, which contains the full color spectrum of light. The blue spectrum within artificial lighting is called blue light. Normal incandescent light bulbs emit the least blue light,...
Heliotherapy: Using sunlight to cure disease
12/3/2015 - The debate about whether sunlight is good or bad for us, and how much we actually need, continues. Like many considerations related to our health, the key is "moderation." Solar Power for Optimal Health, written by Marc Sorenson, says that not only is sunlight crucial to our existence, but it can cure...
Light therapy naturally increases blood flow and boosts brain cell mitochondrial function, research shows
5/1/2015 - A promising new therapy that could improve brain function and provide relief for patients with PTSD and other conditions is now being tested on a group of 160 veterans suffering from Gulf War Illness. Light therapy, also known as LED therapy, is a painless, non-invasive treatment involving the placement...
Your iPhone could cause irreversible eye damage and even make you blind, researchers warn
4/26/2015 - Has our obsession with electronic devices gotten out of hand? No matter where in the world you are, if you take a look around, you'll likely see a vast majority of people glued to the screen of their smartphone or tablet. Although these electronic gadgets might seem to make our lives easier, gazing...
Artificial light exposure, lack of sunlight tied to cancer, diabetes and depression, evidence shows
4/18/2015 - Natural light from the sun is very important to the general health and well-being of humans. Recent research has reinforced this; humans need to have regular and prolonged exposure to this natural light so they can experience optimal health. According to one research team, however, not all the news...
Improve your sleep with these 5 easy tips
2/10/2015 - Sleep consumes around one-third of our lives. At least it should if you wish to be healthy with a strong immune system. But sleep is not just time in bed. The quality of sleep is very important. Studies at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach, Florida, and Florida State University in Tallahassee, Florida,...
Don't fly without these 20 TSA-approved items in your prepper's carry-on bag
1/30/2015 - What is a more uncomfortable feeling than relinquishing all of the items that are normally part of your EDC kit? (Story by Daisy Luther, republished from TheOrganicPrepper.ca) Here's one: relinquishing those items and boarding a plane to fly across the country. For many preppers, a worst-case...
Vitamin C protects plants from damaging sun rays
1/17/2015 - Although biologists have known for a couple of decades that plants create vitamin C in their chloroplasts to protect them from excess sunlight, the mechanics of that process were unknown until recently. Plant chloroplasts use chlorophyll to convert light energy of the sun into sugars that can be used...
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
10/11/2014 - While vaccine makers and drug companies are rushing to bring medical interventions to the market that might address the Ebola pandemic, there's already a technology available right now that can kill Ebola in just two minutes in hospitals, quarantine centers, commercial offices and even public schools. It's...
Prevent skin cancer by avoiding the sun? Not necessarily
9/1/2014 - The sun is out for most of us, and exposure to sunlight typically brings with it fears of skin cancer. Many people avoid the sun totally to prevent this fate, but is that a wise choice? The research on how sun exposure, sunburn and skin cancer are linked could surprise many. Let's examine some facts...
California residents see mysterious lights flash in the sky during earthquake
8/29/2014 - When a magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck Napa Valley, California, on Sunday, August 24, residents from the area noticed strange flashes of light appearing in the sky. The local KPIX 5 newsroom was flooded with calls about a strange phenomenon of lights taking place in the sky. Some people thought the...
Natural sunlight in hospitals would improve health and well-being of staff and patients
8/14/2014 - Walk through any run-of-the-mill hospital today and one will notice that there's more emphasis spent on keeping patients in bed connected to machines than there is helping patients stand to see the light and hope outside. Caring nurses are basically put to work in tunnels that have very little natural...
How late-night screen exposure makes you fat
6/22/2014 - Electronics are powerful, and not just in regard to their speed and memory. Televisions, computers and cellphones have powerful abilities capable of influencing behavior, swaying public opinion and according to one study, increasing your waistline. Scientists found that "blue-enriched light exposure,...
Study shows low hospital lighting levels makes patients more depressed, sick
5/13/2014 - Sometimes people feel worse when they're in the hospital, and now all the jokes about iffy hospital food or long waiting room times can be put to rest. Turns out, there's truth to mood changes and worsening health while in a hospital, and it may be due to something as mundane as the lighting. A study...
Morning sunlight exposure helps with weight loss
4/8/2014 - Exposure to outdoor light in the morning may play a key role in achieving or maintaining a healthy weight, according to a new study conducted by researchers from Northwestern University in Chicago and published in the journal PLOS ONE on April 2. "Light is a modifiable factor with the potential to...
Scientists validate light therapy field of holistic medicine: light can halt pain
3/25/2014 - The future of pain management in humans could eventually center less around what people take for their aches and pains and more around what they shine at them. Experimental new research at Stanford University's Bio-X laboratory has found that unconventional light therapy can be used to mitigate chronic...
Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 now clearly a government cover-up: All evidence contradicts official story
3/24/2014 - The "official" story of what happened to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is now a blatant cover-up. After an endless stream of wild incompetence from the Malaysian military and government concerning the radar signature of the missing flight, we are now told by the Malaysian government that the flight "went...
CNN's 'black hole' theory for Flight 370 demonstrates astonishing scientific illiteracy at popular news network
3/20/2014 - In covering possible explanations for the vanishing of Flight 370, CNN's Don Lemon hilariously asked, on air, whether a black hole might have been the possible cause. Never mind the fact that if a black hole existed in Earth's atmosphere, the entire planet would have been sucked into it, not merely...
Blue light can help fight fatigue and improve your alertness
2/7/2014 - If you feel fatigued and have trouble maintaining focus at work, you aren't the only one. To help combat this, a new study suggests that blue light (short wavelength) exposure can immediately improve your performance and even your alertness, thus decreasing workplace accidents and improving workplace...
UFC's Anderson Silva horrifying shin break in Weidman fight most likely due to chronic vitamin D deficiency via dark skin
12/29/2013 - The UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship) has grown to become today's most popular sport among America's youth. The sport features amazing athletes battling it out in an octagon, where competitors must combine high-level grappling skills, striking skills, fitness and a strong ground game to achieve victory....
Biophotonic rhythms are an essential factor for human health
12/19/2013 - Regular sun exposure is one of the most basic human genetic requirements. Sunlight provides biophotons in the form of ultraviolet (UV) radiation. These biophotons help to energize our cells and stimulate vitamin D3 production. Biophoton absorption and rhythmic expression in our bodies enhances immunity...
Is your smartphone keeping you awake at night?
12/18/2013 - If you have trouble falling asleep - or staying asleep - you can stop attributing it to stress, caffeine or a Type A personality. Your smart phone may be the culprit, by robbing you of your natural sleep-inducing hormone, melatonin. We've always known that exposure to a light source is bad for sleep....
Blue light found to improve brain function and focus better than coffee
11/27/2013 - Swedish researchers have made a fascinating discovery with regard to short wavelength blue light that suggests that it could be used as a natural therapy to help improve cognitive function and boost energy levels. In a test comparing the effects of blue light to caffeine and several other modalities,...
Breakthrough: Solar cells may soon be printed in the same way you print documents today
11/21/2013 - Solar panels and lighting displays may soon be produced from devices virtually indistinguishable from inkjet printers, scientists predicted at the recent consumer electronics trade show (IFA) in Berlin. The technology in question moves away from conventional electronics manufacturing, instead producing...
Sunlight's feel-good effect combines infrared heat, light therapy
10/18/2013 - Most of us have heard of the affliction known as SAD, or Seasonal Affective Disorder, which overcomes many in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. What we don't totally grasp or even think about is the question behind why the sun has such a powerful effect on our mood and overall emotional...
Physicists invent real light saber, just like the ones used in Star Wars
10/17/2013 - Since its debut in 1977, George Lucas' Star Wars series has been as visionary as it has been successful. One of the most memorable of the movie's technological creations is the "light saber," which characters Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader used to battle enemies and each other. Now, apparently, that...
1,000 CFL light bulbs with mercury crushed, dumped on Dallas playground
10/11/2013 - The chickens are coming home to roost for the fluorescent and compact fluorescent (CFL) light bulb industries as the toxic consequences of the mercury contained in these bulbs increasingly rears its ugly head all across the American landscape. This time, the mercury-laden residue of thousands of crushed...
Big Pharma invents yet another disease to sell deadly drugs: 'Shift Work Disorder' now used to push medication that may kill you
8/25/2013 - Ever heard of "shift work disorder?" It's a new disease being played up by the pharmaceutical industry to sell drugs so dangerous that even the home page of the drug website admits the drug may kill you. One such drug is called "Nuvigil," sold by Cephalon, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teva...
Sun exposure proven therapeutic, while avoiding sun harms health
7/13/2013 - Since the time of Ramses in Egypt, the health benefits of the sun have been well known and accepted. Widespread sun therapy use decreased after the discovery of antibiotics. The current fear of sunlight began in the 1960s when individuals practicing unsafe sun practices developed sunburns, associated...
Sun exposure tremendously improves MS symptoms - research
7/7/2013 - Increased exposure to sunlight may help alleviate the depression and fatigue associated with multiple sclerosis (MS), and may even reduce the overall level of disability caused by the disease, research suggests. Prior research has linked both vitamin D deficiency and lower levels of unprotected sun...
Bosnia war survivor warns of things to come in collapse of America
5/9/2013 - We are republishing two important stories here (with links to original sources) that you need to read. The first is a report from a man who survived the war in Bosnia. Although the source of this cannot be confirmed, the advice is extremely valuable regardless. The second story, appended to the bottom...
Manicures increase skin cancer risk
3/20/2013 - Millions of women enjoy a nice manicure and pedicure, as the proliferation of nail salons around the country indicate, but a new study shows that women who get gel manicures could be increasing their risk of skin cancer. CBS New York reports that gel manicures are popular because the manner in which...
Seven amazing health benefits of sunlight
1/18/2013 - An article in the Huffington Post blog a couple of years ago warned readers to avoid all sunlight all the time. The co-founder of the Melanoma Research Alliance and Broadway producer formed this alliance after her own experience with melanoma on the bottom of her foot. Maybe she used to go into Central...
Blue light may be just what you need to beat the winter blues
1/17/2013 - Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a real condition that makes people feel blue during wintertime. As many as one out of five people experience feelings of depression during the coldest months of the year. People with SAD experience symptoms of depression that go away when spring comes, unlike other...
Himalayan Crystal Salt Lamps, Tea Lights and USB LED salt sculptures now available at the Natural News Store
11/23/2012 - Harvested from deep inside the Himalayan mountain range, these salt lamps, tea lights and USB-powered LED salt lamps are made entirely of pink Himalayan (full-spectrum) salt crystals. They resemble large rose quartz crystals (see pictures below), and when lit from the inside, they project a kaleidoscope...
Using foods to put sunlight in your body
8/20/2012 - Gabriel Cousins offers some interesting information about the sunlight that's available and accessible from uncooked foods from nature. He tells us that there is light energy - literally energy from the sun - in uncooked foods from nature. He also tells us that when foods are cooked, this light energy...
Health Ranger's intelligence analysis of military drones: payloads, countermeasures and more
7/16/2012 - Today across America, we're witnessing an explosion in the planned deployment of spy drones, military drones and surveillance drones, both for law enforcement use and military use. The FAA has granted permission for tens of thousands of drones to be flown in the skies of America, and companies like...
Modern science validates light and color therapies in promoting full-spectrum health
7/16/2012 - The ancient practices of phototherapy and chromotherapy are gaining momentum as valid science. Researchers are now able to study how light and color not only affect psychological behavior, but also physiological systems of the body. An article in The New York Times explores how color and light influence...
When the power grid goes down, will you bet your safety on a low-end flashlight? Get a Fenix instead
7/1/2012 - With the power grid down for millions of residents across the Eastern USA, attention is once again turning to emergency preparedness gear. Right now, countless people have found themselves without a reliable flashlight, and that's dangerous for lots of reasons. I've carried a reliable flashlight...
Sun exposure reduces pancreatic cancer risk by nearly 50 percent
6/21/2012 - The health benefits of vitamin D are almost becoming too numerous to count, with yet another new study presented at the recent American Association for Cancer Research Pancreatic Cancer Conference in Lake Tahoe, Nev., shedding light on the hormone's specific anti-cancer benefits. According to the groundbreaking...
Australian three-year-olds targeted for bogus psychiatric disorders such as sleeping with the light on
6/12/2012 - The Australian government and the Australian Medical Association are targeting 27,000 three-year-olds for psychiatric treatment. A new government funded program seeks to treat normal preschool children to discover if they show "signs of mental illness." What are the symptoms of mental illness in...
Health Ranger reviews Fenix survival flashlights for SupplySource.com - rugged, reliable and available now
4/10/2012 - In the quest for finding the perfect preparedness and survival gear, I've become something of a gear head. Especially when it comes to flashlights: I've bought and testing probably fifty lights over the last three years, and most of them turned out to be less than illuminating. But for the last six...
Article updated with new message from the Health Ranger
3/28/2012 - The article which originally appeared here has been removed because it is no longer aligned with the science-based investigative mission of Natural News. In late 2013 / early 2014, Mike Adams (the Health Ranger), editor of Natural News, transitioned from outspoken activist to environmental scientist....
Government omnibus spending bill add-on puts incandescent light bulb ban on hold
12/21/2011 - January 1, 2012, was supposed to be the day that the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA), which was passed by Congress and signed into law by former President George W. Bush back in 2007, came into effect, banning certain high-watt incandescent light bulbs. But all such bulbs will remain on...
Article updated with new message from the Health Ranger
10/26/2011 - The article which originally appeared here has been removed because it is no longer aligned with the science-based investigative mission of Natural News. In late 2013 / early 2014, Mike Adams (the Health Ranger), editor of Natural News, transitioned from outspoken activist to environmental scientist....
Try these simple lighting tips for better sleep
9/17/2011 - At first it's hard to believe that what light bulbs we use and where our lights are positioned can have a profound effect on our sleep. But it's true. Our biology is made to be highly sensitive to the lighting around us. In nature, lighting changes with the days, the seasons and the moon cycles. For...
U.S. corporations set to profit well from 'green' light bulb production in China, with Treasury Department help
9/11/2011 - Have you heard about those expensive new "green" light bulbs the government will force you to begin using next year? The reasoning behind a law that requires a phase-out of the current incandescent bulbs in favor of the new green bulbs - the latter are more efficient and better for the environment...
New green compliant 60-watt LED bulb to cost $15
9/4/2011 - When the US federal government begins to unlawfully rip away Americans' freedom to purchase the light bulbs of their choice beginning on January 1, 2012, the only available choices will be poisonous compact fluorescent (CFL) bulbs, which are loaded with toxic mercury, or expensive light-emitting diode...
Naturally improve your sleep by avoiding blue light
8/24/2011 - In order to fall asleep, the human body produces melatonin, a hormone created in the pineal gland. Melatonin allows the body to relax enough to sleep, allowing it to follow the natural circadian rhythm. However, some environmental factors can interfere with the production of melatonin and make falling...
Bring love and light back on the planet
7/9/2011 - These days it seems that the bad news is all around us and in the midst of it a lot of people are wondering what the solutions are. And the truth is: the solutions are available inside each of us and it's really about shifting internally to a love based consciousness. This is key for a few reasons....
Texas declares light bulb sovereignty, incandescents to remain legal in Lone Star State
6/26/2011 - Federal attempts to illegally control what types of light bulbs Americans are permitted to buy and use have been thwarted by the great state of Texas, thanks to the recent passage of HB 2510. The bill effectively exempts incandescent light bulbs made and sold within the state of Texas from having to...
Frightening ultimatum - Choose between carcinogenic light bulbs or excessive prices
5/21/2011 - Less than one month after bombshell new research revealed that "environmentally safe" compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) contained carcinogenic chemicals, two leading bulb makers have introduced a new brand of LED light bulbs. The bulbs were introduced as an alternative to the toxin-laden CFL's, though...
South Carolina challenges upcoming federal ban on incandescent light bulbs
5/12/2011 - Federal plans to outlaw common incandescent light bulbs in favor of mercury-laden compact fluorescents over the course of the next three years may not end up applying to South Carolinians. Senate panel members in the Palmetto State recently voted unanimously in favor of the Incandescent Light Bulb Freedom...
Healing with light energy
3/9/2011 - "The pain is gone - I can't believe it!" That is what Jack had to say when his pain suddenly disappeared after two decades of unrelenting pain from diabetic neuropathy and a treatment program that profoundly interfered with his quality of life and led to an addiction to a myriad of pharmaceutical drugs....
For blonde hair - Try natural dyes, rinses and treatments
2/16/2011 - Try natural treatments to dye or enhance the color of blonde hair. Herbal, home-made treatments leave hair looking and feeling wonderful, are gentle and do not strip and damage hair. A visit to a hair salon is usually hard on hair because of the toxic chemical dyes that are generally used. Natural...
Got the blues? Feeling S.A.D.? Here are some tips
2/16/2011 - It has been a brutal winter here in the Northeast, and I seem to have seen more patients this year suffering with a touch of the winter blues, also known as SAD (Seasonal Affective Disorder). Symptoms may include a tendency to oversleep, difficulty waking up in the morning, carbohydrate craving, getting...
CF light bulbs a serious health hazard to women and children due to mercury content
2/10/2011 - If broken indoors, compact fluorescent (CF) light bulbs release 20 times the maximum acceptable mercury concentration into the air, according to a study conducted by researchers from the Fraunhofer Wilhelm Klauditz Institute for German's Federal Environment Agency. CF bulbs use only 20 percent as...
Shut off the light at night to reduce cancer risk
1/24/2011 - A wealth of research is pointing to an ever increasing problem that is shown to increase our risk of cancer. The problem is with light sources in the bedroom at night when most people are asleep. Many of the critical biological functions carried out by our body during sleep are dependent on circadian...
Congress introduces bill to stop upcoming ban of incandescent light bulbs
1/21/2011 - In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act which contains a subsection that bans the sale of incandescent light bulbs beginning in 2012. But the new Congress recently unveiled the Better Use of Light Bulbs Act, or H.R. 91, which would repeal this subsection and restore...
Celebrate a healthful festival of peace and light
12/17/2010 - As we enter into the season of winter, many cultures around the world pay tribute to the shortest day of the year and the coming of the light. The time-honored observance of the winter solstice is closely tied with nature, the life-giving properties of the sun, family and connection. Traditionally,...
Turn off the lights when you go to bed - Even dim light at night may trigger obesity
10/27/2010 - You are getting the same amount of exercise as always, you aren't taking in any more calories than usual and yet you keep on gaining weight. So you may be wondering what on earth is going on with your body. Maybe the question you should be asking yourself is this one: what lights are on in your bedroom...
Philips introduces amazing LED light bulb producing 800 lumens (replaces 60-watt bulb)
9/16/2010 - Royal Philips Electronics has introduced a technological breakthrough in the form of a new light bulb that produces as much light as a 60-watt incandescent with the same energy use as a compact fluorescent but with a much longer life and without the use of mercury. Phillips unveiled the bulb at the...
Light treatment clears psoriasis as it boosts vitamin D levels
8/20/2010 - According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) about 7.5 million Americans suffer from the chronic, autoimmune skin disease called psoriasis that causes irritated, flaky and thick patches of red skin; some forms of psoriasis are also associated with joint pain. Most medical treatment for the...
Use Blue and Red Light Therapy for Multiple Skin Care Benefits
5/22/2010 - At first glance, the treatment therapies that use red and blue spectrum light to treat skin disorders and revive aging skin may seem a bit dubious. How can a light beaming on your face actually help change the visible attributes of your skin? Well, infrared red and blue light therapy, as more and more...
How to Avoid Health Hazards of Lighting
4/23/2010 - As the federally mandated phasing out of incandescent light bulbs approaches, you need to know about your new lighting choices. There are three options, of which one is no good if you value your health and don't enjoy eerie dim lighting. The options are CFLs (compact fluorescent lights/lamps), halogen...
New hope for MS patients from UV light from the sun (beyond vitamin D)
4/8/2010 - It's not a new idea that multiple sclerosis (MS) is somehow tied to sunlight -- or, rather, the lack of adequate exposure to sunlight. For more than three decades, researchers have noted that MS is much more common in higher latitudes than in the tropics. So, because bright sunlight is more abundant...
Heal yourself in 15 days by correcting your "nature deficiency" (part nine)
2/19/2010 - Do you suffer from a "nature deficiency?" If you'd like most people in modern society, you spend most of your 24 hours of the day indoors. You work under artificial fluorescent lights, you eat and sleep inside a house or apartment, you commute in the artificial environment of a car, bus or train. You...
Learn How to Simulate Natural Twilight for Better Sleep
12/11/2009 - In our industrialized society, we have lost natural twilight, the time of night when the moon rises and we move indoors to sleep. Twilight is when work is done and the body prepares for sleep. With indoor lighting, the natural stimulus that leads to sleep is disturbed. One of the most prevalent causes...
Vitamin D prevents heart disease
12/7/2009 - Vitamin D is best known for its anti-cancer effects, but suddenly, following a flurry of recent research, it's becoming increasingly recognized for its ability to prevent diseases like diabetes and depression. Now heart disease is also emerging as a chronic health condition that vitamin D can help prevent. Here,...
Vitamin D prevents heart disease
11/25/2009 - The fact that vitamin D prevents cancer is now so well known that even some conventional physicians are beginning to recommend it. Vitamin D prevents 77% of all cancers, after all. That's as close to a "cure" for cancer as you'll ever get (and it's free, too, since you can make it yourself!). But...
Sleeping in a dark room may prevent depression
11/9/2009 - Do you fall asleep while reading, with a lamp still turned on? Doze off with the glow of a television in your bedroom? Perhaps you turn off the lights when you go to bed. But think about it: is your room really totally dark? Maybe there's a light from a clock radio or night light or perhaps street lights...
Clinical Spectro-Chrome Color Therapy Crushed by the Medical Mafia
10/28/2009 - If someone told you he or she cured his or her cancer with color therapy, would you believe it? You may understandably categorize it as new age nonsense. Well, it appears that it's for real and not just for cancer. Colored light therapy was originated mostly by an American physician, Dr. Edwin Babbitt,...
Vitamin D is nutritional key for prevention of breast cancer
10/13/2009 - You've heard the good news about vitamin D for years: It's a "miracle" medicine that reduces cancer rates by 77% according to previous research (https://www.naturalnews.com/021892_cancer_Vitamin_D_cancer_industry.html). It also happens to be a powerful anti-cancer medicine that can both prevent and help...
Vitamin D prevents breast cancer
10/9/2009 - You've heard the good news about vitamin D for years: It's a "miracle" medicine that reduces cancer rates by 77% according to previous research (https://www.naturalnews.com/021892_cancer_Vitamin_D_cancer_industry.html). It also happens to be a powerful anti-cancer medicine that can both prevent and help...
Mercury in Fluorescent Light Bulbs Poisons Factory Workers
9/2/2009 - Energy efficiency for the First World comes at a high cost for factory workers in China, with high rates of mercury poisoning being reported among employees in the plants that make compact fluorescent light bulbs. In an effort to reign in global warming caused by excessive greenhouse gas emissions,...
The Link between Calcium and Vitamin D: Know How Your Cells Operate
8/12/2009 - Now that much of the Northern Hemisphere is well into the summer and the sun is blazing relentlessly in the sky, the idea of sunscreen and sun consumption is on a lot of people's minds. But before lathering on that sunscreen, there are a few things that might be important about how this simple action...
Light Exposure Helps Long-Term Care Patients Housed With No Sunlight
6/7/2009 - Imagine the nightmare of sick and disabled persons being stuck away in a building with little to no exposure to sunlight. Think this is a scene out of the Dark Ages or some horror in a third world, backwards nation? Hardly. It turns out that countless people in the U.S. are warehoused in long-term care...
Prevent Myopia, Part VI: Pinhole Glasses Work as Prevention Aids
3/30/2009 - Few people have even heard of pinhole glasses, although they have been around for a long time. Pinhole glasses are not made of glass at all but of an opaque substance such as plastic. The user looks through any of the many small holes in the material. These holes have the effect of reducing the width...
Even Light Alcohol Consumption may Raise Cancer Risk in Women
3/20/2009 - Alcohol consumption has previously been strongly linked with certain types of cancer, for example those of the mouth and throat, but its contribution to other types of malignancies have not been as firmly established. A large study conducted in Britain and recently published in the Journal of the National...
Artificial Night Lights Increase Cancer Risk
3/4/2009 - As you are sitting in a plane which is taking off or touching down late at night, or simply looking down at the world from a skyscraper, city lights are quite a sight to behold. You could almost say it's a modern day paradise. But little do you know that these lights could well be damaging your health...
Save Money: Make Your Own Tasty Nutritious Bread
2/24/2009 - Home made bread saves money both at its production and in the long run. Using fresh ingredients will cost less than a store-bought loaf. The bread which results will be nutritious and tasty, with endless variety. Many people fear that making bread is a long and complicated process. Instead you will...
The Effects of Weather on Health and How to Prepare
2/3/2009 - The weather really does affect our moods and health as dramatically as it can affect our roads. Everyone has noticed it to some degree throughout their lives. Folks living in hot climates with the sun looming viciously overhead notice an energy level entirely different from those living further north....
Vitamin D Halts Growth of Breast Cancer Tumors
2/2/2009 - For the past 18 months, I've been working on building a new research library consisting of over 1200 books on natural health topics. Through some rather advanced technologies that took me far longer to build than I originally anticipated, I'm now able to locate and collect, within minutes, paragraphs...
Better Sleep with Twilight
1/14/2009 - Before the Industrial Revolution, when night arrived, the sky darkened. This was conducive to sleep, and our natural circadian rhythms. With the increased use of electricity and electric lights, we turn our nights into days and prevent sleep. Over two-third of Americans suffer from sleep problems. And...
Sleep May Be the Critical Factor for Weight Loss and Health
1/3/2009 - In an amazingly simplistic view of how things work, we have been told for the last 40 years that fat makes us fat. So we cut out the fat from our diets and discovered that we were not only still fat but unhealthy too. Then we were told that we needed to cut out even more fat and increase our visits...
Environmentally Conscious Decoration Ideas
12/5/2008 - It`s the holiday season and that means it`s time to decorate our homes, offices and businesses; inside and out. In years past it was easy, there were not a lot of options for lights and decorations were decorations (no special knowledge required). These days with the push for people to be more environmentally...
Dementia Slowed by Light Therapy
11/17/2008 - The cognitive decline caused by dementia can be slowed by as simple a measure as brighter daytime lighting, according to a study conducted by researchers from the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. One of the most difficult symptoms...
Night Lights Cause Breast Cancer While You Sleep
10/14/2008 - A lack of darkness at night may increase a woman's risk of developing breast cancer, according to a study conducted by researchers from the University of Haifa, Israel, and published in the journal Chronobiology International. Researchers used NASA satellite maps to determine how much light was emitted...
How to Stay Healthy in the Computer Era (Part 2)
10/8/2008 - Part one of this series on how to take care of your health in the computer era described the essentials of taking care of your physical health with specific exercises and by being mindful of how you use your body throughout the day. This article takes a close look at how you can best support all...
The Blue Light Used to Harden Tooth Fillings Stunts Tumor Growth
9/12/2008 - A blue curing light used to harden dental fillings also may stunt tumor growth, Medical College of Georgia researchers say. "The light sends wavelengths of blue-violet light to the composite, which triggers hardening," says Alpesh Patel, a rising MCG School of Dentistry junior. "The light waves produce...
Use of Bright Lighting May Improve Dementia Symptoms
8/13/2008 - The use of daytime bright lighting to improve the circadian rhythm of elderly persons was associated with modest improvement in symptoms of dementia, and the addition of the use of melatonin resulted in improved sleep, according to a study in the June 11 issue of JAMA. "In elderly patients with dementia,...
Fluorescent Light Bulbs Linked with Eczema, Seizures, Migraines, Skin Rashes
8/8/2008 - Health advocates have warned that the United Kingdom's plan to phase out conventional light bulbs in favor of fluorescents may lead to serious health problems for people with light-sensitive medical conditions. "Incandescent light bulbs are the only source of electric light for many thousands of...
The Energetic Contamination of Beef Products (Transcript)
5/24/2008 - Greetings everyone, this is Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, here reporting for www.Naturalnews.com. I am currently in the rainforest of Southern Ecuador, high in the Andes Mountains. I am not joking. I am actually in a bamboo rainforest here. It is raining so I am under some shelter right now. Unfortunately,...
Lip Balm Bends Light, Defies Laws of Physics, Announces Washington Post
4/28/2008 - A new "sunlight scare story" report in the Washington Post claims that lip balm "attracts the sun's rays to the lips." This is certainly news to everybody who thought light traveled in a straight line. Apparently, lip balm can now alter the laws of physics and cause light to bend like, say, a planet...
Vitamin D: The Silver Bullet Against Chronic Disease for African Americans
4/16/2008 - Research claims about nutritional supplements and associated cures for disease states present themselves on a weekly basis. The collective hopes of all Americans are raised by the lofty claims and dashed just as quickly by adverse side effect profiles. Similarly, rarely discussed medical conditions...
The Healing Benefits of Sunlight and Vitamin D
3/26/2008 - Whilst avoiding the harsher elements of direct sunlight is not only wise but is necessary, avoiding the sun all together and as the result, not getting enough direct sunlight on our skin, is even more problematic. So, let's examine the benefits of healthy sun exposure without getting burnt or promoting...
Compact Fluorescent Light Bulbs May Be Hazardous to Your Health
3/25/2008 - There is a congressional mandate in place banning sales of regular incandescent light bulbs by the year 2012. Recently however, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has warned that the use of compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs) is not a safe product in many cases. Breaking a CFL can cause...
Rise and Shine: More Sunlight is Good for Your Health
3/14/2008 - A study by researchers at the Institute for Cancer Research in Oslo, Norway has given further credence to the claim that the benefits of modest sun exposure outweigh the risk of skin cancer for most people. Johan Moan, the researcher who led the study said, "Modest sun exposure gives enormous vitamin...
Plan To Spray Toxic Biological Chemicals Over San Francisco Announced
3/11/2008 - People of the world, the US Government is planning to poison more than two million people, in California, using an untested biological "pesticide" this summer. The chemical to be sprayed is classified by the EPA as a "pesticide" and the plan is to douse cities with this chemical designed to stick on...
Fluorescent lights release toxic mercury directly into the environment
2/11/2008 - There is an international campaign to ban the incandescent bulb in favor of alternative sources of lighting, most notably fluorescents. Unfortunately, fluorescents contain noxious chemicals including argon and mercury that are contaminating the environment, specifically through their accumulation in...
Making Raw Foods Delicious: Cherie Soria and Living Light International (Part 2)
1/23/2008 - Making Raw Foods Delicious: Cherie Soria and Living Light International (Part 2) Yesterday, in Part 1 of this article, I introduced you to world renowned Raw Food Gourmet Chef Cherie Soria, co-founder of Living Light International. Cherie has devoted her life to re-creating the foods we love,...
Making Raw Foods Delicious: Cherie Soria and Living Light International (Part 1)
1/23/2008 - Knowledge is power! There is a great deal of misconception around what it means to be a raw foodist. World renowned Raw Food Gourmet Chef Cherie Soria not only clears up these misconceptions, but offers a world of new possibilities and resources to anyone who wants to be healthy and desires to add more...
Heal Yourself With Sunlight (Part 1 of Timeless Secrets of Health and Rejuvenation)
12/3/2007 - The time when one’s immediate natural impulse on the first sunny spring day was to get outside and enjoy it is long gone. Only the very courageous or “careless” who defy the grim warnings from medical mandarins and cancer specialists, wholeheartedly endorsed by the sunscreen industry,...
U.S. may phase out incandescent light bulbs in favor of energy-efficient lighting products
11/26/2007 - The Energy Committee of the U.S. Senate is drafting a bill that would phase out the use of incandescent light bulbs in the United States. Incandescent bulbs, the same type of light bulb first developed by Thomas Edison, produce light by forcing an electric current through a thin filament. This filament...
Mercury Does Not Belong in Light Bulbs or Vaccines
11/21/2007 - According to the National Association of County Health Officials (NACHO), an independent affiliate of the National Association of Counties representing 1,300 local health departments, mercury poses the following dangers: "Mercury can be extremely toxic, especially to infants and children. Mercury occurs...
The Wonders Of Our Biological Rhythms
11/8/2007 - Although it may not be apparent to a layperson, the human body is largely run by “biological rhythms.” All organs, systems and cells are controlled by exact, cyclic patterns of rest and activity, which we can aptly call the “universal laws of life.” The following are a few examples...
Why light bulbs are accelerating global warming and mercury contamination
10/26/2007 - The incandescent light bulb was downright amazing when it was invented in 1809 by Humphry Davy. Nope, it wasn't invented by Thomas Edison -- that's just another American history lie, much like the stories about Christopher Columbus "discovering" America and being some sort of upstanding hero. In truth,...
Vitamin D Recommendation Missing From Breast Cancer Task Force Report on Black Women
10/23/2007 - Once in a great while, a report emerges from the medical establishment that's so myopic and devoid of wisdom that it boggles the mind. Today, a new candidate for the "most ignorant medical advice" emerges from none other than the Metropolitan Chicago Breast Cancer Task Force -- a group of over 100 doctors...
BanTheBulb.org promotes energy efficient lighting, but neglects LED lights
7/30/2007 - Do you realize how much energy it takes to light your home? In the U.S., the average household spends 20 percent of its electricity bill on lighting. BanTheBulb.org is a website dedicated to teaching consumers how to save money and protect the environment by using energy-efficient light bulbs. According...
How to better prepare yourself and your family against climate change, natural disasters and the post-oil economy (opinion)
7/20/2007 - I've been a proponent of personal preparedness for many years. "Preparedness" simply means having some backup supplies on hand to help you get through unexpected events or hard times, and over the last decade, we've seen numerous examples of why preparedness is so important: Hurricane Katrina, power...
Breaking a compact fluorescent light bulb could cost you $2,000 in toxic mercury cleanup
6/25/2007 - While large-scale marketing efforts tout cost savings of compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs), few are explaining the real cost -- to the environment and to individuals -- of broken or discarded CFLs. One consumer has learned that accidentally breaking a CFL could cost her more than $2,000. According...
BetterLifeGoods.com introduces a travel safety tool with LED light, radio, cell phone charger, seatbelt cutter, glass break and more
6/22/2007 - Unlike most of our product reviews, this one isn't about your health or nutrition. It's about your personal safety. Better Life Goods (a company I own, see full disclosure below) has just finished a large production run on an new, unique safety and preparedness tool available now at www.BetterLifeGoods.com...
Compact fluorescent light bulbs contaminate the environment with 30,000 pounds of mercury each year
6/20/2007 - A compact fluorescent light is a type of energy-saving bulb that fits into a standard light bulb socket or plugs into a small lighting fixture, and right now, compact fluorescents seem to be gaining in popularity. But did you know they can also be toxic to your home and the environment? Fluorescent...
Incandescent light bulb ban in U.K. could reduce CO2 emissions up to 3 million tons annually
6/17/2007 - Just as Australia has banned incandescent light bulbs for 2009, England maybe moving towards similar steps, according to The Guardian newspaper. Jump directly to: conventional view | alternative view | bottom line What you need to know - Conventional View• Fluorescent...
LED lights make city structures seem safer to citizens
6/11/2007 - Citizens in Raleigh, N.C. express feeling safer in municipal structures that have switched to LED lighting, according to a new survey conducted by Mindwave Research. With the results of this survey, the "LED City" initiative in Raleigh has proven to have benefits beyond energy efficiency. The survey...
Incandescent lighting fast becoming history as states push for more energy efficient technology
6/7/2007 - Fluorescent light bulbs and LED lights are rapidly coming to replace the incandescent bulbs perfected by Thomas Edison in the late 1800s, as state governments encourage a switch for the sake of energy conservation. In California and New Jersey, laws have been proposed that would actually ban the use...
EcoLEDs.com launches energy efficient replacement bulb for 40 watt light bulbs; uses only 5 watts of electricity, lasts 50,000 hours
6/5/2007 - EcoLEDs.com, the newly-launched lighting company offering high-brightness, energy-efficient LED lights for home and office use, has announced the availability of an LED replacement for 40-watt light bulbs. Its "E27 3W LED" light uses only 5.2 watts of electricity and produces 135.2 foot-candles of light...
New LED lighting technology embraced by consumers, Total Cost of Ownership saves money over incandescent, fluorescent bulbs
5/10/2007 - The launch of our new LED lights from EcoLEDs (www.EcoLEDs.com) is already proven to be a huge success. Thank you to all the customers who have purchased our new LED light bulbs from BetterLifeGoods (www.BetterLifeGoods.com). In the first 24 hours, the sales of these lights greatly exceeded our expectations. The...
Australia bans incandescent light bulbs with three-year phase-out
5/10/2007 - Australia has banned incandescent light bulbs, starting in 2009. The country down under, looking to reduce its environmental footprint, raised its energy standards for 2009, making the old style of light bulb too inefficient to be sold in the country. Jump directly to: conventional view | alternative...
Mike Adams launches eco-friendly LED lighting technology with 1000% improvement in energy efficiency
5/9/2007 - I'm passionate about solving problems and doing my part to make our world a better place. My passions focus on areas that include disease prevention through nutrition, green living, renewable energy, consumer safety, animal welfare and more. For the past four years, my efforts have focused primarily...
Light therapy stops tooth loss in dental patients with periodontal disease
4/26/2007 - A light-activated germ killer slowed the progression of periodontal disease in rats over the short-term, according to a study conducted by researchers at Sao Paulo State University and published in the Journal of Periodontology. Researchers hope that this can eventually be adapted into a treatment for...
Breakthrough anti-reflection coating could mean advances in optics, LED lighting and lenses
3/24/2007 - A team of researchers from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute has created a new optical coating that enables greater control over the basic properties of light. The world's first material that reflects virtually no light can eliminate unwanted reflections, and has been an active technological goal of...
HairMax Laser Comb receives FDA clearance as hair regrowth device for humans
2/27/2007 - The FDA has approved the HairMax Laser Comb as the first drug-free hair regrowth device for at-home use. The Laser Comb, which is only the third hair regrowth product to receive FDA approval, is manufactured by Lexington International, LLC, based in Boca Raton, Fla. Jump directly to: conventional...
California legislator set to introduce new bill to ban incandescent light bulbs
2/10/2007 - A California legislator is prepared to place before the state legislature a bill that would ban the use of incandescent light bulbs. The “How Many Legislators Does it Take to Change a Light bulb Act”, which has been drafted by California Assemblyman, Lloyd Levine, D-Van Nuys, would ban the use of...
Butterflies inspire new LED illumination technology
1/27/2007 - An ingenious method of efficiently emitting light has come from a unique inspiration: butterflies. The science behind higher-emission light emitting diodes (LED) comes from the fluorescent patches found on the wings of the African swallowtail butterfly. LED technology has been around for decades,...
Review: Violet Ray Crystal Resonator machine broadcasts healing energy for your body, mind and home
1/13/2007 - If you enjoyed the movie, "What the Bleep Do We Know?" or you're interested in the new science of healing with energy, you're going to enjoy this review and tour of a unique energy product called the Violet Ray Crystal Resonator (VRCR) made by Pillar of Light Enterprises at PillarOfLight.net. The inventor...
LEDs could replace light bulbs to save billions in energy costs
11/7/2006 - A University of California, Santa Barbara researcher has found that light-emitting diotes -- more commonly known as LEDs -- could viably replace conventional light bulbs in about two years. LEDs provide about as much light as a 60-watt bulb for longer, while using less energy. An LED bulb already...
Light-emitting bandage heralded as skin cancer treatment breakthrough
11/1/2006 - Scottish scientists have developed a light-emitting, portable bandage that has been shown to fight skin cancer in a quicker, less painful way than conventional treatments. The metallic, adhesive bandage was created by physicist Ifor Samuel of the University of St. Andrews and dermatologist James...
Diabetes detection breakthrough: Fluorescent light illuminates blood sugar disorders in patients
10/27/2006 - Holland-based company DiagnOptics has developed a new device that may be able to identify diabetes risk simply by shining a fluorescent light on a patch of skin below the elbow. The traditional method of checking a diabetes patient's blood sugar control is blood tests, but this can only reveal how...
ORNL hybrid lighting technology gaining momentum around nation (press release)
10/6/2006 - With five hybrid solar lighting systems already in place and another 20 scheduled to be installed in the next couple of months, the forecast is looking sunny for a technology developed at the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Preliminary data from field units, which collect sunlight...
The four steps to getting more vitamin D to prevent cancer, osteoporosis, depression and more
9/25/2006 - After years of denying the health benefits of sunlight, conventional researchers are finally starting to recognize the important role that ultraviolet light plays in human health. Getting sunlight on your skin, research now shows, is extremely important for preventing and even reversing chronic diseases....
Light to moderate alcohol consumption not beneficial to health (press release)
9/19/2006 - A number of studies published in the 1970s and 1980s suggested that small to moderate amounts of alcohol have a protective effect on ischaemic heart disease (IHD) that outweighs adverse health effects. However, Rod Jackson (University of Auckland, New Zealand) and colleagues state that the studies were...
New hybrid computer chip uses laser light to move data
9/18/2006 - Laser light communication allows computers to transmit massive amounts of data to each other over fiber-optic wires, but a bottleneck is created when that data reaches the computer, and has to travel at a snail's pace from chip to chip. But researchers at Intel and the University of California, Santa...
Blind Mice Recover Visual Responses Using Protein from Green Algae (press release)
9/7/2006 - Nerve cells that normally are not light sensitive in the retinas of blind mice can respond to light when a green algae protein called channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) is inserted into the cell membranes, according to a National Institutes of Health (NIH)-supported study published in the April 6, 2006 issue...
Connection Between Artificial Lighting and Breast Cancer (press release)
9/6/2006 - The results of a new University of Haifa study found a connection between artificial lighting and breast cancer. Intensified exposure to artificial light at night might be another cause of breast cancer in women, according to the researcher Itai Kloog of the University's Dept. of Natural Resources...
Fiber optic technology from Sunlight Direct pipes health-enhancing sunlight into workplaces and retail stores
8/30/2006 - Studies have found that natural lighting is best for human beings, so the Tennessee-based company Sunlight Direct developed a way to bring that light to workers who are cramped in florescent-bulb-lit cubicles or windowless offices. Sunlight Direct's hybrid solar lighting system collects light from...
Artificial hospital lights harm health of babies
8/21/2006 - A Vanderbilt University study suggests that artificial lights -- like those used in most hospitals -- may throw of the biological clocks of premature infants, which could put them at a greater risk of mood disorders such as depression as well as other hormone-related health problems. The researchers...
Over-the-counter vitamin D tester would be a boon to public health, cancer prevention
8/9/2006 - There's a piece of technology we really need in the world that could vastly improve the health of people living not only in wealthy nations, but also Third World nations. This is a piece of technology that does not exist today, but could conceivably be invented and mass-produced in the next decade or...
Light Therapy and Fluoxetine Are Equally Effective for Winter Depression (press release)
7/31/2006 - Bright artificial light and the antidepressant fluoxetine are both effective treatments for the winter form of seasonal affective disorder (SAD). A head-to-head comparison conducted in four Canadian cities over three winters is reported in an article in the May issue of The American Journal of Psychiatry...
Blind Mice Recover Visual Responses Using Protein from Green Algae (press release)
7/31/2006 - Nerve cells that normally are not light sensitive in the retinas of blind mice can respond to light when a green algae protein called channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) is inserted into the cell membranes, according to a National Institutes of Health (NIH)-supported study published in the April 6, 2006 issue...
Special Eyeglasses Help Increase Fertility (press release)
7/27/2006 - Melatonin is a master control hormone that sends information to the whole body about the time of the day and also the time of year. In dim light or in darkness the melatonin flows for about nine hours during the night reaching a maximum concentration in the blood about 3 A.M. Exposing the eyes to light...
Interview: Larry Pederson and the LiteBook portable phototherapy device
7/24/2006 - Mike: Welcome again, everyone. This is Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, here at Natural Products Expo West 2006. I'm joined by Larry Pederson, the founder of The Litebook Company and inventor and creator of the light therapy device called Litebook. Here to tell us about it is Larry. Larry Pederson:...
See all 378 light feature articles.
Concept-related articles:
Technology:
The Top Ten Technologies: #8 Computer / Human Interface Systems
Emerging technology is not the answer to the world's social and economic problems
Breakthrough Food Technology Process Protects Foods With Thin Film Made From Natural Ingredients; Replaces Plastic Wrap
When technology becomes religion and science becomes God
Artificial Intelligence 'more dangerous than nukes,' warns technology pioneer Elon Musk
Generation:
Red alert for humanity: Chemical damage can be inherited by offspring through unlimited generations
Lcd:
Technology breakthrough could make LCD displays for pennies instead of dollars
Scientists:
FDA censorship, suppression of its own scientists is routine, survey reveals
Paper:
Popular cigarettes found to contain toxic metals: Lead, Cadmium, Arsenic and Aluminum
Cost:
New LED lighting technology embraced by consumers, Total Cost of Ownership saves money over incandescent, fluorescent bulbs
People:
Interview: Greg Kunin from Ola Loa reveals the health secrets of drinkable vitamins
Batteries:
Product review: The MH-C9000 WizardOne NiMH battery charger from Powerex
Car:
How Acetyl-L-Carnitine prevents Alzheimer's disease and dementia while boosting brain function
Cars:
Japan's radioactive cars selling at auctions without notice
Cancer:
Cancer is not a Disease - It's a Survival Mechanism (Book Excerpt)
Immune system:
Astragalus "super herb" protects, supports immune system function
Nanotechnology:
Nanotechnology Breakthrough Produces Metal Rubber; Flexible Metal Sheets Snap Back To Original Shape After Being Crumpled
Phototherapy:
Nanotech claims lead the way in junk science; phototherapy needs no nano
Nanotech:
The Top Ten Technologies: Where is Nanotechnology?
Science:
The downfall of science and the rise of intellectual tyranny
Subscribe to the Health Ranger's
FREE email newsletter
Follow @HealthRanger
Concepts related to Light
technology e-paper generation lcd scientists paper cost people batteries electric vehicles car cars cancer immune system junk science nanotechnology phototherapy nanotech science infrared light healing tumors medicine lead therapy body heal gold claims properties reality optical computing optical processing CPUs companies electricity information shrink future produce logic
View light on NaturalPedia™
Today's Top Stories on NaturalNews
Today | Week | Month | Year
This Easter Sunday, it’s time to tell the truth about the global war on Christianity (and the rise of Satanism) - NaturalNews.com
Every liberal city in America is headed toward Venezuela… get out while you can - NaturalNews.com
Health hazards from 5G cell towers going mainstream; new calls for protection against radiation pollution - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL SHOCKER: MMR vaccine dangers exposed by FDA study - NaturalNews.com
Whole Foods selling bottled water contaminated with dangerous levels of arsenic - NaturalNews.com
Herbal remedies that increase blood circulation in the feet - NaturalNews.com
Big Pharma bust: Largest opioid arrest in U.S. history ensnares dozens of physicians, pharmacists who created addicts - NaturalNews.com
Are you deficient in magnesium? Watch out for these signs - NaturalNews.com
NEVER turn in guns, magazines or banned accessories to the government: They are creating a database of those who own gun gear - NaturalNews.com
Leftists demand eliminating all Christian crosses from public view, claiming it “triggers” them… political correctness is now equivalent to Satanism - NaturalNews.com
CDC admits measles outbreak is caused by people from other countries who enter the United States and spread the disease - NaturalNews.com
These herbs have potent anti-inflammatory properties that may improve symptoms of chronic Lyme disease - NaturalNews.com
Explosions rock Catholic churches, hotels in Sri Lanka, but none DARE call the attacks what they are: Islamic terrorism - NaturalNews.com
Pepsi admits its soda contains cancer-causing ingredients
Deadly sweet: Energy drinks linked to chronic disease and hyperactivity, studies reveal - NaturalNews.com
Kylie Jenner became a billionaire by poisoning youth with toxic lipstick ingredients, say critics - NaturalNews.com
Mass media celebration of woman scientist credited for black hole image was bogus… even SCIENCE is now pushing a liberal agenda - NaturalNews.com
Love the MANY health benefits of turmeric but turned off by its strong flavor? Here are some foods that make it taste better - NaturalNews.com
Candida Auris: The silent superbug that’s already too late to stop – full documentary - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
Top 11 causes of cancer you may have NEVER guessed - NaturalNews.com
Herbal remedies that increase blood circulation in the feet - NaturalNews.com
CDC admits measles outbreak is caused by people from other countries who enter the United States and spread the disease - NaturalNews.com
NYC Mayor De Blasio tells citizens: We own your bodies, and we can force you to be injected with anything we want - NaturalNews.com
Medical BOMBSHELL: Chemotherapy found to spread cancer - NaturalNews.com
This Easter Sunday, it’s time to tell the truth about the global war on Christianity (and the rise of Satanism) - NaturalNews.com
Top 4 historical HEALTH LIES the public needs to stop spreading as fact - NaturalNews.com
Dancing on the Crumbling Precipice: Jim Quinn explains why the deep state is the true enemy of human civilization - NaturalNews.com
Make a list and check it twice: “Dirty Dozen” list of fruits and vegetables CONTAMINATED with pesticide residue - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Proposed new Texas law would demand safety studies for vaccines… no wonder the entire vaccine industry opposes it - NaturalNews.com
77 holistic practitioners now dead since 2015: This is beyond strange, they are dropping like flies and MSM ignores them - NaturalNews.com
Here are 7 reasons why you should eat coconut oil before going to bed - NaturalNews.com
Stunning new material invented in Turkey: “Metallic wood” is 5 times stronger than titanium, but lighter - NaturalNews.com
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines found to be a powerful anticancer food - NaturalNews.com
Dairy industry to DISAPPEAR in 10 years? - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Calamansi fruit from the Philippines found to be a powerful anticancer food - NaturalNews.com
NYC Mayor De Blasio tells citizens: We own your bodies, and we can force you to be injected with anything we want - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL ALERT: Hospitals are releasing deadly superbug fungi into the open air, “colonizing” the population with dangerous pathogens that have a 41% – 88% fatality rate - NaturalNews.com
MEDICAL MARTIAL LAW rolled out in New York; unvaccinated citizens banned from all public places, including schools, churches, malls, sidewalks, public transit and voting locations - NaturalNews.com
Microwave ovens ‘fluke’ your heart while they ‘nuke’ your food - alarming studies reveal microwave frequency radiation can affect heart and blood - NaturalNews.com
Does removing sugar from your diet starve cancer cells? New study finds surprising answers - NaturalNews.com
Candida Auris: The silent superbug that’s already too late to stop – full documentary - NaturalNews.com
Organ donor? Organs are cut out of patients’ bodies even while they are conscious and aware, horrifying new science study reveals - NaturalNews.com
IBM, the same company that provided punch card computing systems to the Nazis, lays groundwork for global “Mark of the Beast” cryptocurrency network - NaturalNews.com
UPS partnering with drug giants to inject you with vaccines in your own home… pilot project a blueprint for nationwide vaccine mandates at gunpoint - NaturalNews.com
Top 11 causes of cancer you may have NEVER guessed - NaturalNews.com
It takes money to try to hold Big Pharma accountable: Chuck Norris sues 11 drug companies for poisoning his wife - NaturalNews.com
Burger King rolls out the genetically modified “Impossible Burger” made with questionable chemicals - NaturalNews.com
Yes, Google has been LISTENING and RECORDING everything you say in your own home through secret NEST microphones - NaturalNews.com
Moral decline: Satanic symbols now appearing at government buildings all across America - NaturalNews.com
ANALYSIS: Deep state behind arrest of Julian Assange in last-ditch desperate effort to take down Trump with forced “confessions” - NaturalNews.com
Arizona SWAT team smashes door, raids mother’s home at gunpoint over child having a fever… medical tyranny gone wild in the USA - NaturalNews.com
Homeschooling skyrockets as more parents get fed up with Left-wing social engineering and violence in public schools - NaturalNews.com
Court ruling confirms Gardasil vaccine kills people… scientific evidence beyond any doubt… so where is the outcry? - NaturalNews.com
CONFIRMED: Barack Obama was running the entire spygate operation that violated federal law to spy on Trump campaign officials - NaturalNews.com
U.S. chicken farms are so dirty, meat has to be washed with chlorine before being sold for human consumption - NaturalNews.com
Philippines government conducts armed raid of natural health clinic; hundred of patients thrown to the streets… Dr. Farrah forced to flee after entire family death threated - NaturalNews.com
“Mystery virus” spreading like wildfire across U.S. population, putting people in bed for a MONTH… is this a depopulation bioweapon experiment? - NaturalNews.com
Flu shot lands man in hospital, unable to speak, walk, see or even BREATHE - NaturalNews.com
Many cases of “dementia” are actually side effects of prescription drugs or vaccines, according to research - NaturalNews.com
It takes money to try to hold Big Pharma accountable: Chuck Norris sues 11 drug companies for poisoning his wife - NaturalNews.com
Scientists have discovered a way to destroy cancer tumors using nothing but sound waves - NaturalNews.com
Kavanaugh accuser Christine Blasey exposed for ties to Big Pharma abortion pill maker… effort to derail Kavanaugh is plot to protect abortion industry profits - NaturalNews.com
EMERGENCY REPORT: Signed Executive Orders reveal Trump is planning mass arrests, military tribunals for deep state traitors like Comey, Clinton and Obama – UPDATE - NaturalNews.com
FDA quietly bans powerful life-saving intravenous Vitamin C - NaturalNews.com
Study PROVES chemicals in shampoo and toothpaste are altering sex hormones in adolescents - NaturalNews.com
Why you need magnesium if you’re constantly stressed or anxious - NaturalNews.com
Microwave ovens ‘fluke’ your heart while they ‘nuke’ your food - alarming studies reveal microwave frequency radiation can affect heart and blood - NaturalNews.com
The criminalization of science whistleblowers: A mind-blowing interview with Judy Mikovits, PhD - NaturalNews.com
Does removing sugar from your diet starve cancer cells? New study finds surprising answers - NaturalNews.com
See All Top Headlines...
Most Popular Stories
TED aligns with Monsanto, halting any talks about GMOs, 'food as medicine' or natural healing
10 other companies that use the same Subway yoga mat chemical in their buns
Warning: Enrolling in Obamacare allows government to link your IP address with your name, social security number, bank accounts and web surfing habits
High-dose vitamin C injections shown to annihilate cancer
USDA to allow U.S. to be overrun with contaminated chicken from China
Vaccine fraud exposed: Measles and mumps making a huge comeback because vaccines are designed to fail, say Merck virologists
New USDA rule allows hidden feces, pus, bacteria and bleach in conventional poultry
Battle for humanity nearly lost: global food supply deliberately engineered to end life, not nourish it
Harvard research links fluoridated water to ADHD, mental disorders
10 outrageous (but true) facts about vaccines the CDC and the vaccine industry don't want you to know
EBT card food stamp recipients ransack Wal-Mart stores, stealing carts full of food during federal computer glitch
Cannabis kicks Lyme disease to the curb
Recommended Resources
TV.NaturalNews.com is a free video website featuring thousands of videos on holistic health, nutrition, fitness, recipes, natural remedies and much more.
CounterThink Cartoons are free to view and download. They cover topics like health, environment and freedom.
The Consumer Wellness Center is a non-profit organization offering nutrition education grants to programs that help children and expectant mothers around the world.
Food Investigations is a series of mini-documentaries exposing the truth about dangerous ingredients in the food supply.
Webseed.com offers alternative health programs, documentaries and more.
The Honest Food Guide is a free, downloadable public health and nutrition chart that dares to tell the truth about what foods we should really be eating.
HealingFoodReference.com offers a free online reference database of healing foods, phytonutrients and plant-based medicines that prevent or treat diseases and health conditions.
HerbReference.com is a free, online reference library that lists medicinal herbs and their health benefits.
NutrientReference.com is a free online reference database of phytonutrients (natural medicines found in foods) and their health benefits. Lists diseases, foods, herbs and more.
This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners.