A Culprit Called Croup – Mind Over Mommy
Skip to content
Mind Over Mommy
Navigating Life as a Stay-at-Home Mom
Menu
About
A Culprit Called Croup
March 21, 2017 ~ mindovermommysite
There is nothing worse than feeling exhausted, getting to sleep early and being awoken by a sick child, except for realizing you have a sick child. Somewhere in a semi-deep sleep, I heard what I thought was a dog barking. My husband, also hearing the noise, asked with a tone of disbelief in his voice, “Is that her coughing?”
Every fiber of my being wanted to deny that it was one of our children. I let my husband get up to investigate. Unfortunately, the barking got much worse and was intensified by wailing. I sprang out of bed to join him in our 14-month old daughter’s room. It was obvious she had a bad case of croup.
Having gone through it previously with our son, we knew to go outside in the cool night air and/or run the hot water in the bathroom to get it steamy. We did both. She calmed down and the coughing subsided eventually, giving way to heavy breathing with a lot of wheezing. She managed to sleep for a couple of hours, and then it started up again. We soon were back in the steamy shower trying to quell the stridor.
As a mom who has comforted kids through ear infections, fevers and stomach viruses, I find croup to be the scariest illness to endure. I can clean up vomit (and everyone always seems to feel better immediately after throwing up) or hold my child’s lifeless body until the Motrin or Tylenol kick in to fight the fever, but how do you quickly, easily and assuredly get a child breathing effortlessly again? It’s perplexing and terrifying.
Somehow, in the moment of needing to be alert and provide comfort to a sick child, all sense of tiredness dissipates and parents’ priorities shift. Being a light sleeper, I was doomed given the heavy breathing coming through the baby monitor, but my maternal sense of worry wouldn’t have allowed me to get the rest I intended earlier. I lay in bed listening for sounds of distress signifying that my daughter would need us again.
I also laid there knowing the next day would warrant a phone call to the doctor, which turned into a visit to the pediatrician’s office and then a trip to the pharmacy for medication.
It also meant a lot more coffee.
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
CoffeeCroupMotrinSick childTylenol
Published by mindovermommysite
City-dwelling reporter turned suburban stay-at-home mom of two.	View all posts by mindovermommysite
Post navigation
‹ PreviousBravery in Selling-Out?
Next ›Master of Manipulation
One thought on “A Culprit Called Croup”
Pingback: Spring Break – Mind Over Mommy
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Recent Posts
Mom-me November 27, 2017
You Can Take it With You September 7, 2017
Summer School July 11, 2017
School’s Out For Summer June 24, 2017
Resume Builder June 6, 2017
Archives
November 2017 (1)
September 2017 (1)
July 2017 (1)
June 2017 (2)
May 2017 (4)
April 2017 (8)
March 2017 (7)
Search for:
Recent Posts
Mom-me
You Can Take it With You
Summer School
School’s Out For Summer
Resume Builder
Recent Comments
Isolating – Mi… on Constant Company
Spring Break –… on Another Day, Another Sick…
Spring Break –… on A Culprit Called Croup
Peanut Profile… on Moms Seeking Moms
Archives
November 2017
September 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
Blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: