Plantar Warts & Treatment | Foot Care | Andrew Weil, M.D.
<iframe src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5HFCVX" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe>
Menu
Weil™ Andrew Weil, M.D.
Back one level
Close menu
Health & Wellness
Health & Wellness
Body, Mind & Spirit
Addiction
Allergy & Asthma
Autoimmune Disorders
Back Pain
Bone & Joint
Cancer
Colds & Flu
Dental & Oral
Diabetes
Disease & Disorders
Ears, Nose, & Throat
Feet
Gastrointestinal
Hair, Skin, & Nails
Headache
Heart
Insects & Parasites
Liver & Kidney
Mental Health
Pregnancy & Fertility
Respiratory
Sexual Health
Sleep Issues
Stress & Anxiety
Vision
Balanced Living
Exercise & Fitness
Gardening
Healthy Home
Healthy Living
Meditation & Inspiration
Meet Dr. Weil
Pets & Pet Care
Technology
Wellness Therapies
Health Centers
Aging Gracefully
Children
Condition Care Guide
Men
Women
Diet & Nutrition
Diet & Nutrition
Anti-Inflammatory Diet & Pyramid
Cooking & Cookware
Diets & Weight Loss
Food Safety
Nutrition
Recipes
Featured Articles
Diets & Weight Loss
Dr. Weil’s Guide To Popular Diets
Diets & Weight Loss
The Ketogenic Diet
Anti-Inflammatory Diet & Pyramid
Foods You Should Always Buy Organic: The Dirty Dozen Plus
Recipes
Monte Cristo Salmon Sandwich
Bulletins
Sugar Sweetened Drinks Are Killing You
Vitamins, Supplements & Herbs
Vitamins, Supplements & Herbs
Herbs
Supplements & Remedies
Vitamins
Weil Vitamin Advisor
Ask Dr. Weil
Blogs
Blogs
Bulletins
Health Tips
Spontaneous Happiness
Marketplace
Healthy Aging
Meet Dr. Weil
VITAMIN ADVISOR
Plantar Warts
Newsletters Vitamin Advisor
Search
Press "Enter" to search
Toggle search
Home
Health & Wellness
Body, Mind & Spirit
Feet
Article
Plantar Warts
0 shares
2 min
What are plantar warts?
“Plantar” refers to the sole of the foot, and plantar warts are simply warts that grow on the bottom of the feet.
What are the varieties of plantar warts?
Plantar warts tend to occur on the heels or the balls of the feet, which take the most pressure from standing and walking.
What are the causes of plantar warts?
Like warts found elsewhere on the body, planter warts are growths caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). You can pick up the HPV that causes planter warts anywhere, but you are most likely to come into contact with it in warm, moist places such as shower floors, locker rooms and public swimming pools.
Who is likely to get them?
You are most susceptible to HPV if you’re repeatedly exposed to the virus, if your skin is cut or damaged, or if your immune system is weakened.
How can plantar warts be prevented?
Wear shower thongs or sandals when you use a public locker room or shower. Use foot powders and change your socks often to keep the feet dry.
What are the symptoms?
A planter wart can look like a small, fleshy bump; a hard, flat growth with a rough surface and well-defined boundaries; or a gray or brown lump with tiny pinprick-size black dots (clotted blood vessels that distinguish warts from bloodless corns and calluses). The growths interrupt the normal lines and ridges in the skin.
What is the conventional treatment?
You do not really have to do anything about plantar warts. Most will disappear on their own sooner or later. But if yours are causing discomfort, a number of planter wart treatments are available. You can buy over-the-counter treatments containing a 40 percent salicylic acid solution that you apply once or twice a day for a few weeks. Another planter wart treatment option is the “duct tape treatment” – you cover the warts with duct tape for six days then soak them in water and rub them gently with an emery board or pumice stone. You may have to repeat the process over the course of a month or two before the warts disappear, but a study published in the October 2002 Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine found that the duct tape method worked better than having a doctor freeze the warts off with liquid nitrogen, which can be painful and cause scarring.
What therapies does Dr. Weil recommend for plantar warts?
Try removing warts with visualization: Spend a few minutes a day picturing the growths shrinking. If you need help coming up with images, you can listen to audiotapes made by practitioners skilled in guided imagery and clinical hypnosis. It may be most effective to do this when waking and falling asleep. Children are especially good at it. Their vivid imaginations can conjure up all kinds of magical methods of wart removal. This mind-over-matter method can work remarkably well, so try it first, before resorting to acids, duct tape, lasers, or surgery.
What’s Right For Me?
Free Vitamin Recommendations
Stay Connected With Dr. Weil - Get Free Newsletters Right In Your Inbox
Email address
Sign up
Trending Now
Feet
Are Ionic Footbaths Detoxifying?
Feet
Are Your Feet Burning?
Feet
Athlete's Foot
Feet
Best Steps for Foot Care?
Dr. Weil on Healthy Aging
Start Your 14-Day Free Trial
Free Newsletters
Stay Connected With Dr. Weil
Anti-Inflammatory Diet
Follow Dr. Weil’s Food Pyramid
Stay Connected With Dr. Weil - Get Free Newsletters Right In Your Inbox
Email address
Sign up
Weil™ Andrew Weil, M.D.
Information
About Us
Press Information
Advertising
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Manage Email Subscription
Trending Articles
Feet
Are Ionic Footbaths Detoxifying?
Feet
Are Your Feet Burning?
Daily Tips
Health Tips
Choosing Healthy Soymilk: 4 Things To Look For
Health Tips
How Harmful Is It To Take Too Many Supplements?
Flickr
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Pinterest
Instagram
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Information on this website is provided for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for the advice provided by your physician or other healthcare professional. You should not use the information on this website for diagnosing or treating a health problem or disease, or prescribing any medication or other treatment. Any third party offering or advertising on this website does not constitute an endorsement by Andrew Weil, M.D. or Healthy Lifestyle Brands.
©Copyright 2019 Healthy Lifestyle Brands, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. www.drweil.com
Stay Connected With Dr. Weil - Get Free Newsletters Right In Your Inbox
Email address
Sign up
Dismiss