Burns
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Home
View Plans
Individual & Family Plans
Senior Health Plan
Employer Group Plans
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Members
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Employers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Providers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Brokers
Wellness
Search
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Website Search
Health Encyclopedia
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Networks & Affiliations
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Contact Us
Take Charge
Your Symptoms
Self Care
In-Depth Reports
Diseases & Conditions
Surgeries & Procedures
Injuries
Tests
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
Multimedia Encyclopedia
Tobacco Cessation
Calculators
Smoking Cessation
Body Mass Index Calculator
Calorie Burner Counter Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Desirable Body Weight Calculator
Nutritional Needs Calculator
Waist to Hip Calculator
Risky Drinking
Wellness Tools
Stress and Anxiety
Diet & Nutrition
Emotional Health
Fitness
Sleep Health
Work & Life Balance
Career Burnout
Allergy
Cancer Prevention Guide
Depression
Diabetes
Heart Attack & Disease Risk
Menopause
Pain
Stroke Risk
Additional Resources
Wellness Promotions
Symptom Checker
Preventive Health Guidelines
Important Health Topics
Browse A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
0-9
Print-Friendly
Bookmarks
Burns
First degree burn; Second degree burn; Third degree burn
Burns commonly occur by direct or indirect contact with heat, electric current, radiation, or chemical agents. Burns can lead to cell death, which can require hospitalization and can be fatal.
Considerations
There are three levels of burns:
First-degree burns affect only the outer layer of the skin. They cause pain, redness, and swelling.
Second-degree burns affect both the outer and underlying layer of skin. They cause pain, redness, swelling, and blistering. They are also called partial thickness burns.
Third-degree burns affect the deep layers of skin. They are also called full thickness burns. They cause white or blackened, burned skin. The skin may be numb.
Burns fall into two groups.
Minor burns are:
First degree burns anywhere on the body
Second degree burns less than 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 centimeters) wide
Major burns include:
Third-degree burns
Second-degree burns more than 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 centimeters) wide
Second-degree burns on the hands, feet, face, groin, buttocks, or over a major joint
You can have more than one type of burn at a time.
Severe burns need urgent medical care. This can help prevent scarring, disability, and deformity.
Burns on the face, hands, feet, and genitals can be particularly serious.
Children under age 4 and adults over age 60 have a higher chance of complications and death from severe burns because their skin tends to be thinner than in other age groups.
Causes
Causes of burns from most to least common are:
Fire/flame
Scalding from steam or hot liquids
Touching hot objects
Electrical burns
Chemical burns
Burns can be the result of any of the following:
House and industrial fires
Car accidents
Playing with matches
Faulty space heaters, furnaces, or industrial equipment
Unsafe use of firecrackers and other fireworks
Kitchen accidents, such as a child grabbing a hot iron or touching the stove or oven
You can also burn your airways if you breathe in smoke, steam, superheated air, or chemical fumes in poorly ventilated areas.
Symptoms
Burn symptoms can include:
Blisters that are either intact (unbroken) or have ruptured and are leaking fluid
Blisters
A vesicle is a small fluid-filled blister on the skin.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Pain (How much pain you have is unrelated to the level of burn. The most serious burns can be painless.)
Peeling skin
Shock (Watch for pale and clammy skin, weakness, blue lips and fingernails, and a drop in alertness.)
Shock
Shock is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the body is not getting enough blood flow. Lack of blood flow means the cells and organs do n...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Swelling
Red, white, or charred skin
If you have burned your airways, you may have:
Burns on the head, face, neck, eyebrows, or nose hairs
Burned lips and mouth
Coughing
Difficulty breathing
Difficulty breathing
Breathing difficulty may involve:Difficult breathingUncomfortable breathingFeeling like you are not getting enough air
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Dark, black-stained mucus
Voice changes
Wheezing
Wheezing
Wheezing is a high-pitched whistling sound during breathing. It occurs when air moves through narrowed breathing tubes in the lungs.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
First Aid
Before giving first aid, it is important to determine what type of burn the person has. If you are not sure, treat it as a major burn. Serious burns need medical care right away. Call your local emergency number or 911.
MINOR BURNS
If the skin is unbroken:
Run cool water over the area of the burn or soak it in a cool water bath (not ice water). Keep the area under water for at least 5 to 30 minutes. A clean, cold, wet towel will help reduce pain.
Calm and reassure the person.
After flushing or soaking the burn, cover it with a dry, sterile bandage or clean dressing.
Protect the burn from pressure and friction.
Over-the-counter ibuprofen or acetaminophen can help relieve pain and swelling. DO NOT give aspirin to children under 12.
Once the skin has cooled, moisturizing lotion containing aloe and an antibiotic also can help.
Minor burns will often heal without further treatment. Make sure the person is up to date on their tetanus immunization.
MAJOR BURNS
If someone is on fire, tell the person to stop, drop, and roll. Then, follow these steps:
Wrap the person in thick material; such as a wool or cotton coat, rug, or blanket. This helps put out the flames.
Pour water on the person.
Call 911 or your local emergency number.
Make sure that the person is no longer touching any burning or smoking materials.
DO NOT remove burned clothing that is stuck to the skin.
Make sure the person is breathing. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.
CPR
CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is an emergency life-saving procedure that is done when someone's breathing or heartbeat has stoppe...
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Cover the burn area with a dry sterile bandage (if available) or clean cloth. A sheet will do if the burned area is large. DO NOT apply any ointments. Avoid breaking burn blisters.
If fingers or toes have been burned, separate them with dry, sterile, non-sticky bandage.
Raise the body part that is burned above the level of the heart.
Protect the burn area from pressure and friction.
If an electrical injury may have caused the burn, DO NOT touch the victim directly. Use a non-metallic object to move the person away from exposed wires before starting first aid.
You will also need to prevent shock. If the person does not have a head, neck, back, or leg injury, follow these steps:
Shock
Shock is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the body is not getting enough blood flow. Lack of blood flow means the cells and organs do n...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Lay the person flat
Raise the feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters)
Cover the person with a coat or blanket
Continue to monitor the person's pulse, rate of breathing, and blood pressure until medical help arrives.
Pulse
The pulse is the number of heartbeats per minute.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Do Not
Things that should not be done for burns include:
DO NOT apply oil, butter, ice, medicines, cream, oil spray, or any household remedy to a severe burn.
DO NOT breathe, blow, or cough on the burn.
DO NOT disturb blistered or dead skin.
DO NOT remove clothing that is stuck to the skin.
DO NOT give the person anything by mouth, if there is a severe burn.
DO NOT place a severe burn in cold water. This can cause shock.
DO NOT place a pillow under the person's head if there is an airways burn. This can close the airways.
When to Contact a Medical Professional
Call 911 or your local emergency number if:
The burn is very large, about the size of your palm or larger.
The burn is severe (third degree).
You aren't sure how serious it is.
The burn is caused by chemicals or electricity.
The person shows signs of shock.
The person breathed in smoke.
Physical abuse is the known or suspected cause of the burn.
There are other symptoms associated with the burn.
For minor burns, call your health care provider if you still have pain after 48 hours.
Call a provider right away if signs of infection develop. These signs include:
Drainage or pus from the burned skin
Fever
Increased pain
Red streaks spreading from the burn
Swollen lymph nodes
Swollen lymph nodes
Lymph nodes are present throughout your body. They are an important part of your immune system. Lymph nodes help your body recognize and fight germ...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Also call a provider right away if symptoms of dehydration occur with a burn:
Decreased urination
Dizziness
Dry skin
Headache
Lightheadedness
Nausea (with or without vomiting)
Thirst
Children, older people, and anyone with a weakened immune system (for example, from HIV) should be seen right away.
The provider will perform a history and physical examination. Tests and procedures will be done as needed.
These may include:
Airway and breathing support, including a face mask, tube through the mouth into the trachea, or breathing machine (ventilator) for serious burns or those involving the face or airway
Blood and urine tests if shock or other complications are present
Chest x-ray for face or airway burns
Chest x-ray
A chest x-ray is an x-ray of the chest, lungs, heart, large arteries, ribs, and diaphragm.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing), if shock or other complications are present
Electrocardiogram
An electrocardiogram (ECG) is a test that records the electrical activity of the heart.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Intravenous fluids (fluids through a vein), if shock or other complications are present
Medicines for pain relief and to prevent infection
Ointments or creams applied to the burned areas
Tetanus immunization, if not up to date
The outcome will depend on the type (degree), extent, and location of the burn. It also depends upon whether internal organs have been affected, and if other trauma has occurred. Burns can leave permanent scars. They can also be more sensitive to temperature and light than normal skin. Sensitive areas, such as the eyes, nose, or ears, may be badly injured and have lost normal function.
With airway burns, the person may have less breathing capacity and permanent lung damage. Severe burns that affect the joints may result in contractures, leaving the joint with decreased movement and a reduction in function.
Prevention
To help prevent burns:
Install smoke alarms in your home. Check and change batteries regularly.
Teach children about fire safety and the danger of matches and fireworks.
Keep children from climbing on top of a stove or grabbing hot items such as irons and oven doors.
Turn pot handles toward the back of the stove so that children can't grab them and they can't accidentally be knocked over.
Place fire extinguishers in key locations at home, work, and school.
Remove electrical cords from floors and keep them out of reach.
Know about and practice fire escape routes at home, work, and school.
Set the water heater temperature at 120°F (48.8°C) or less.
Open References
References
Christiani DC. Physical and chemical injuries of the lungs. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. Goldman-Cecil Medicine. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 94.
Singer AJ, Lee CC. Thermal burns. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 56.
Voigt CD, Celis M, Voigt DW. Care of outpatient burns. In: Herndon DN, ed. Total Burn Care. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.
BACK TO TOP
All
Video
Images
Tog
Burns - illustration
The depth of a burn determines its severity. First degree burns damage the outer layer of skin (epidermis) and cause pain, redness and swelling (erythema). Second degree burns damage the epidermis and the inner layer, the dermis, causing erythema and blistering. Damage from third degree burns extend into the hypodermis, causing destruction of the full thickness of skin with its nerve supply (numbness). Third degree burns leave scars and may cause loss of function and/or sensation.
Burns
Illustration
Burn, blister - close-up - illustration
First degree burns produce only reddening of the skin. Second degree burns produce blistering, as seen here.
Burn, blister - cl...
Illustration
Burn, thermal - close-up - illustration
Mild, or first degree burns cause only reddening of the epidermis (outer layer of the skin), as seen in this photograph. Second degree burns cause blistering and extend into the dermis (lower layer of skin). Third degree burns cause tissue death through the dermis and affect underlying tissues.
Burn, thermal - cl...
Illustration
Airway burn - illustration
Burns to the airway can be caused by inhaling smoke, steam, superheated air, or toxic fumes, often in a poorly ventilated space. Airway burns can be very serious since the rapid swelling of burned tissue in the airway can quickly block the flow of air to the lungs.
Airway burn
Illustration
Skin - illustration
The skin is the largest organ of the body. The skin and its derivatives (hair, nails, sweat and oil glands) make up the integumentary system. One of the main functions of the skin is protection. It protects the body from external factors such as bacteria, chemicals, and temperature.
Skin
Illustration
First degree burn - illustration
First degree burns affect the outer layer of the skin, causing pain, redness, and swelling.
First degree burn
Illustration
Second degree burn - illustration
Second-degree burns affect both the outer and underlying layer of the skin, causing pain, redness, swelling, and blistering.
Second degree burn
Illustration
Third degree burn - illustration
Third-degree burns extend into deeper tissues, causing brown or blackened skin that may be numb.
Third degree burn
Illustration
Minor burn treatme...
Presentation
Burns - illustration
The depth of a burn determines its severity. First degree burns damage the outer layer of skin (epidermis) and cause pain, redness and swelling (erythema). Second degree burns damage the epidermis and the inner layer, the dermis, causing erythema and blistering. Damage from third degree burns extend into the hypodermis, causing destruction of the full thickness of skin with its nerve supply (numbness). Third degree burns leave scars and may cause loss of function and/or sensation.
Burns
Illustration
Burn, blister - close-up - illustration
First degree burns produce only reddening of the skin. Second degree burns produce blistering, as seen here.
Burn, blister - cl...
Illustration
Burn, thermal - close-up - illustration
Mild, or first degree burns cause only reddening of the epidermis (outer layer of the skin), as seen in this photograph. Second degree burns cause blistering and extend into the dermis (lower layer of skin). Third degree burns cause tissue death through the dermis and affect underlying tissues.
Burn, thermal - cl...
Illustration
Airway burn - illustration
Burns to the airway can be caused by inhaling smoke, steam, superheated air, or toxic fumes, often in a poorly ventilated space. Airway burns can be very serious since the rapid swelling of burned tissue in the airway can quickly block the flow of air to the lungs.
Airway burn
Illustration
Skin - illustration
The skin is the largest organ of the body. The skin and its derivatives (hair, nails, sweat and oil glands) make up the integumentary system. One of the main functions of the skin is protection. It protects the body from external factors such as bacteria, chemicals, and temperature.
Skin
Illustration
First degree burn - illustration
First degree burns affect the outer layer of the skin, causing pain, redness, and swelling.
First degree burn
Illustration
Second degree burn - illustration
Second-degree burns affect both the outer and underlying layer of the skin, causing pain, redness, swelling, and blistering.
Second degree burn
Illustration
Third degree burn - illustration
Third-degree burns extend into deeper tissues, causing brown or blackened skin that may be numb.
Third degree burn
Illustration
Minor burn treatme...
Presentation
Self Care
Minor burns - aftercare
Related Information
Review Date: 5/24/2018
Reviewed By: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease, Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., a business unit of Ebix, Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Fire Fox and Google Chrome browser.
Privacy & Compliance
Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (Consumer Information Disclosure)
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act)
Report Suspected Health Care Fraud, Waste or Abuse
Compliance Program and Code of Excellence
Nondiscrimination Statement
Careers
When you choose CommunityCare as your employer, you join a staff of highly motivated individuals who make CommunityCare Oklahoma's best choice for healthcare.
CommunityCare is just as dedicated to our employees as we are to our customers and our business. We make it a priority to provide our staff with all the tools necessary to have a long, fruitful career with our company.
Find out more
Newsroom Activity
Seasonal Triggers for Individuals With COPD
4/19/2019
Do You Take Diabetes Medicine?
3 months ago
Care Corner: You Asked, We Answer
3 months ago
Visit the Newsroom
Home
Contact Us
Find Health Insurance
Health & Wellness
Employee Assistance Program
Site Map
Language Assistance
Español
Tiếng Việt
繁體中文
한국어
Deutsch
العربية
Hmoob
Tagalog
Français
ພາສາລາວ
ภาษาไทย
اُردُو
tsalagi gawonihisdi
فارسی
© 2019 CommunityCare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
tul-pubweb-2
CommunityCare is proudly owned by our region's two premier health systems. Other physicians and providers are available in our network.