26 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Genital Warts
Home
Health Hacks
Food Hacks
Beauty Hacks
Pest Hacks
Fitness Hacks
DIY Hacks
Pregnancy Hacks
Index
Search
Natural Home Remedies – DIY treatment for Better Health
Home
Health Hacks
Food Hacks
Beauty Hacks
Pest Hacks
Fitness Hacks
DIY Hacks
Pregnancy Hacks
Index
Home Health Hacks 26 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Genital Warts
Health Hacks
Sexual Health
26 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Genital Warts
Dec 22, 2015
0
17840
Genital warts (also known as venereal warts, or anal warts) are a kind of lesion that grow on or around the genital area of the body. Genital warts are highly infectious STD, caused by particular strand of a virus, named HPV, which also can cause plantar warts. For women, Genital warts can be found on the cervix, the vagina or the anus. While in men, warts can be found on the penis, anus, scrotum or other parts of the groin. Some symptoms of genital warts are bleeding post sexual intercourse, itching in the genital area, an increase in the amount of vaginal discharge, and excessive moisture around the genital area. Genital warts can be embarrassing, so if you want to know how to get rid of genital warts, then don’t worry. Our home remedies for genital warts give you all the wart removal remedies you need to know.
How to get rid of Genital Warts
1. Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider Vinegar has been used for thousands of years to treat a variety of skin conditions, gut problems and infections.
If you just take away one remedy for how to get rid of genital warts, apple cider vinegar would be the one.
It is thought that apple cider vinegar is effective against genital warts through three mechanisms.
The acetic acid in vinegar can kill certain bacteria and viruses on contact. There is evidence that shows acid is effective against the HPV virus. (1)
The acidic properties of vinegar burn the wart infected skin which eventually leads to the wart to fall off.
The irritation from the acid vinegar triggers a heightened immune response from the body’s immune system, which eventually destroys the virus.
Apple cider vinegar is an effective home treatment for genital warts. Just dip a cotton ball in the ACV and apply it to the warts. Use sticky tape or a bandage to hold the cotton ball in place. Leave it overnight and then wash off in the morning.
Note: If you’re feeling excessive pain, keep the vinegar on for as long as you can, and then wash it off.
2. Duct Tape
As far as home treatment of genital warts goes, this sounds weird. But duct tape helps in the wart removal.
Duct tape has been proven highly effective in treating plantar warts [2]. Duct tape suffocates plantar warts by cutting off oxygen supply.
Just take a piece of tape and cover your warts with it for six days. Then remove it and rub them with an emery board. Repeat this procedure until the warts vanish.
3. Castor Oil
Castor oil may be stinky but it is a great home remedy to get rid of genital warts. Soak a cotton ball in the oil and then tape it onto the warts. Change this cotton ball at least thrice a day.
4. Vitamin E Oil
Gently rub the vitamin E oil on the wart and put gauze over it. Repeat it till the wart disappears completely. If vitamin E oil is not available, you may squeeze the liquid from the vitamin E capsules and apply it to the warts.
5. Onion
Onion is one of the most effectual remedies to treat the genital warts.
Being anti-inflammatory [3], onion reduces pain caused by genital warts. Onion is also a blood cleanser, which cures and prevents skin conditions.
Take a few slices of onion and tape them with gauze on the warts. Reapply after every 3-4 hours. The juice of the onion will do the magic.
6. Oatmeal
Oatmeal doesn’t help in genital warts removal, but reduces irritation, itchiness, and the pain up to a great extent. Fill a tub with warm water and mix some finely powdered oatmeal in it. Soak the affected part in this water, to get some relief.
7. Pineapple Juice
Take some fresh pineapple pieces and grind them to take out the juice. Pour some juice on a cotton swab and place it on your warts for ten minutes. Then, wipe it off. Repeat it twice daily.
8. Banana Peel
Banana peel has antibacterial, antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties [4]. It reduces pain caused by infection. It is also one of the best home remedies for genital wart removal.
Place the inside of a banana peel piece on your wart and stick it with a tape. Leave it overnight and remove in the morning. Repeat daily at night for about 2 weeks or till your warts change color and fall off.
9. Garlic
The antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties of garlic aid in treating skin conditions. Studies have proved garlic to be effective against viral infections [5].
Take 8 peeled cloves of garlic and crush them to make a fine paste. Apply this on your warts and wash with water after an hour. Do this daily till the warts vanish.
10. Potato
Cut thick slices of a potato and rub them on your warts slowly, 2-3 times a day. Do it for at least two weeks, to notice the difference.
11. Epsom Salt
Fill your tub with warm water and add Epsom salt to it. Soak yourself in it for thirty minutes and then, dry the genitals. Do this thrice a week.
12. Vitamin C
Take vitamin C tablet and crush it. Mix it with water to make a paste. Apply it to the warts. Cover the area with a bandage, for a day. This process will destroy the virus.
13. Alcohol
Just take some alcohol and rub it on the warts, twice a day. This is a slow process and might take more than one month, to show the results.
14. Transparent Nail Paint
Apply the clear nail paint on the warts and leave it on for the whole day. Repeat this every day before you hit the bed. Use this remedy until the warts fall off.
15. Baking Soda
Take a spoonful of baking soda and mix it with the castor oil. Apply this paste on the warts and cover it with a bandage. Do this twice daily, for three weeks.
Herbal Remedies for Removal of Genital Warts
16. Aloe Vera
Aloe vera has a soothing effect on skin and is used for treating various skin conditions.
It reduces pain caused by genital warts and prevents infections. The active ingredient, Salicylic acid present in aloe vera is anti-inflammatory and analgesic [6]
Aloe vera is also an active ingredient in commercial genital wart removal creams.
Take the gel and rub generously on the affected area, 3-4 times a day. Repeat this for 2-3 weeks. This is one of the effective natural remedies for warts.
17. Grapefruit Seed Extract
Pour one drop of the extract on your wart. Do this twice a day, for 2-3 weeks till the warts become white in color and fall off on their own.
18. Willow Tree Bark
Take a piece of the willow tree bark and moisten it with the water. Place this on the wart and hold it in place with a bandage. Do this every day with a new bark, and your warts would disappear in 1-2 weeks.
19. Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree oil possesses anti-inflammatory properties, which reduces swelling and pain. It is one of the most effective home remedies to get rid of genital warts.
The active compound Terpinen-4-ol found in tea tree oil possesses antiviral activity [7] and hence is effective in the fight against viruses.
The anti-inflammatory, antiseptic and antifungal properties of this essential oil help treat genital warts at home. Soak a cotton ball in the oil and dab it on the affected area.
Note:
Avoid its consumption since it is toxic.
Dispose of the cotton swab to prevent the infection from spreading.
20. Licorice Root
Crush the licorice root and then apply it to the warts either directly or by tying it to the infected area. Do this thrice a week.
21. Witch Hazel
Applying Witch hazel for genital wart removal is another popular genital wart removal remedy. Witch hazel is effective as a genital wart treatment as it is an astringent which can make the wart shrivel up and fall off after prolonged exposure.
Well developed warts can have there own blood supply and using Witch Hazel for genital warts is effective as the herb shrinks the blood vessels. This effectively cuts off the wart’s oxygen supply and kills it.
Just get distilled witch hazel and apply it to your warts, wash it after fifteen minutes. Do this twice a day, for at least three weeks.
Note: Make sure you dry your genital area post washing.
22. Olive Leaf Extract
Take a few dried olive leaves and boil them in the water for ten minutes. Strain and drink this 3-4 times a day.
Note:
Pregnant and nursing mothers must not use this remedy.
23. Fig Leaf
The fig leaf is very useful for genital warts home treatment. Take a fig leaf and break it to get the sap. Dab the sap on your warts and repeat this 3-4 times a day.
21. Stinging Nettles
Formic acid is another great natural treatment to get rid of genital warts. Formic acid is used by wasps and fire ants as the principal toxin in their stings. It also used by stinging nettles to ward off threats.
The acid in the stinging nettle breaks down the wart and kills the virus and is even used in some commercial wart treatments.
If you want to use nettles to get rid of genital warts, crush fresh nettles leaves and stems into a fine green paste and apply the mixture daily to the wart. Do not boil or cook the nettles as this will break down the formic acid, rendering the treatment useless.
25. Thuja
Take thuja oil and apply it to the warts, three times a day. This is a slow healing process, but will definitely give you the results. Your warts may take 3-4 weeks to fall off with this oil. You can mix it with the olive oil for the best outcomes.
26. Dandelion
Take the dandelion herb and break it to get the sap. Apply this to your warts, 2-3 times a day, for at least 3 weeks.
Do’s
Have a healthy diet.
Wash your undergarments regularly.
Wear cotton underwear.
Keep your genitals dry.
Soak yourself in warm water for some time.
Don’ts
Do not itch or touch the warts too much.
Do not apply the remedies elsewhere.
Avoid sexual intercourse with multiple partners.
Do not have unprotected sex.
Do not prick the warts.
SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
homeremedyhacks
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
16 Home Remedies for Gonorrhea
12 Essential Oils for Toenail Fungus
12 Essential Oils for Athlete’s Foot
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Please enter your comment!
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Latest Post
17 Proven Home Remedies to Get Rid of Moths
Jul 28, 2018
Be it in your pantry or wardrobe, the most common household pest problem is the clothes moth. They are usually found in food storage...
Welcome to homeremedyhacks.com. In the modern world, when scientists have discovered cures for almost all ailments, there is no substitute for home remedies. Here we have provided natural and herbal remedies for all your health and beauty related problems.
Contact us: homeremedyhacks@gmail.com
Homeremedyhacks – Disclaimer
Homeremedyhacks- Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© 2017-2018 Homeremedyhacks All rights reserved.
Facebook
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS