How yoga can help kids with Asthma - ActiveActivities
Your browser does not support JavaScript!
Menu
Home
About Us
Locations
Categories
Special Offers
Events
Resources
Blog
Contact Us
Join our community
List your business
Upgrade
Open search List your business Upgrade
Category or Business Name
Suburb, City, State or Postcode
Search
or Browse by category
Home Health & Fitness Yoga How yoga can help kids with Asthma
How yoga can help kids with Asthma
Spring is the season that asthma and allergies suffers dread the most due to triggers such as poor air quality and high pollen count.
The 2014-15, the Australian Bureau of Statistics, National Health Survey reported that approximately 2.5 million Australians live with asthma. Looking at the 0-14 year age range they found that a massive 12% of boys and 9% of girls have asthma. As you read this you may be thinking of a child you know with asthma, you may have a one yourself.
An exciting new study from the Chinese University in Hong Kong found that regular yoga practice had a positive impact on the quality of life of asthma suffers. Kid’s yoga and mindfulness can help as a complementary therapy and an alternative to standard breathing exercises.
Through the practice of asana and pranayama, yoga can complement conventional medications to assist in reducing the symptoms of asthma and frequency of attacks. Yoga postures can help air flow more freely through the bronchial tubes and air sacs in the lungs.
If a child finds it hard to exhale they can practice upper back bends and chest opening poses such as Cow, Cobra or Bow. (You can find demonstrations for how to correctly do each pose on YouTube.)
For children who find it harder to inhale, forward bends and lower back bends such as Downward-Facing Dog, Bridge or Bound Angel pose may be beneficial.
Inversions are a great way to shift excess mucus from the lungs and balance out the immune system; they’re also fun to do. Most age groups can practice Supported Shoulderstand or Legs Up The Wall. Both Downward-Facing Dog and Bridge pose are inversion too.
The Three Part Breath or Dirga Pranayama teaches children to breathe into the three parts of their abdomen; the belly, chest and throat. This controlled breathing technique regulates and deepens the breath enabling more oxygen to get into the body. The muscles in the lungs can become stronger and it stabilizes the nervous system.
Psychologically, practicing yoga and mindfulness can assist children to manage their feelings and emotions, helping to reduce anxiety. They build awareness of their body and learn to pick up early warning signs of asthma flaring up.
Many children can feel self-conscious about using their inhaler in front of others. Yoga develops an openness to accept ourselves as we are. Self-compassion is developed, confidence grows and the impact of asthma on social wellbeing is reduced.
If you have a child with asthma and would like to start a regular yoga and mindfulness practice, please seek medical advice first.
For more information about how yoga can help kids with asthma, please contact the expert contributor.
Tweet
The above Expert Article has been provided by:
Inner Child Yoga
Business Address:
PO Box 622 Coogee NSW
Business can travel to you
Servicing area
Coogee NSW 2034
More information and contact details
This content is the property of the above business and has been published with their permission. The views and opinions expressed are the views of the author not the Website. Please read our Terms and Conditions for more information.
Quick Links
Yoga in Australia
Yoga in Adelaide
Yoga in Brisbane
Yoga in Darwin
Yoga in Hobart & South East
Yoga in Inner North
Yoga in Melbourne
Yoga in Perth
Yoga in Sydney
Articles related to your search:
How kids yoga aids school readiness
This is the time of year when excited preschoolers and their families go to their ‘Big School’ orientations. Much of the year has been spent learning letters, numbers and alike. All this knowledge is a great foundation; however research shows us that focusing on socio-emotional skills is the best way to set kids up for success. This article outlines how yoga can help your child prepare for starting school.
Read more
Tai Chi for kids
Get to know the martial art that is for both self-defence and for health and fitness! . It is important that parents get their children engaged to activities for kids that will not only benefit their physical health, but also their mental wellbeing. Tai Chi for kids can give your toddlers the health and fitness benefits they need!
Read more
Resources categories
Arts & Crafts (39)
Community (23)
Education (57)
Entertainment (45)
Health & Fitness (20)
Holidays (27)
Outdoor & Adventure (54)
Parties (40)
Performing Arts (92)
Sports (212)
School Holiday Activities
See all
About About
About Us
Contact Us
FAQ's
Legals
Privacy Policy
Ratings and Reviews Guidelines
Helpful Links Helpful Links
How to Request a Service
Special Offers
Events for Kids
Resources
Kids Activities by Categories
Kids Activities by Locations
Blog
Kids Venues
Kids Parties
School Holiday Activities
Businesses Businesses
Add your Business
Upgrade
Pay per Lead
Add Bookings
Recent Listings
Manage your Account
Check your Stats
Other Marketplaces
Download our app to receive new lead notifications to your mobile:
Follow Us Follow Us
Facebook Twitter
Secured payments using Braintree and eWAY
This website is owned and operated by The Digital Company. See our other websites in Australia.
Back to Top
How could we improve our website? ×