Nutritional deficiency anemia: Causes, symptoms, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What is nutritional deficiency anemia?
Last updated	 Thu 10 August 2017	 Last updated	Thu 10 Aug 2017
By Yvette Brazier
Reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Table of contents
Iron-deficiency anemia
Vitamin-deficiency anemia
Causes
Treatment
Anemia is a common condition that results from a lack of certain vitamins and minerals. Not consuming a balanced diet can lead to a deficiency, or malnutrition.
Anemia affects over 30 percent of the world's population. It is most severe among pregnant women and in children.
A range of health problems can arise from nutritional deficiencies. Nutritional deficiency anemia can lead to a low red blood cell count, low hemoglobin in the red blood cells, or red blood cells that do not function as they should.
Nutritional deficiency anemia mainly results from a lack of iron, but a lack of folate or vitamin B12 can also cause anemia, and a low vitamin C intake can contribute.
Nutritional deficiency anemia can happen because of a lack of nutrients in the diet or because of an illness or medical condition that make it hard to absorb nutrients.
Fast facts on nutritional deficiency anemia:
Here are some key points about nutritional deficiency anemia. More detail is in the main article.
Iron-deficiency anemia can happen when a person does not have enough iron in the diet, or if they have a condition that makes it hard to absorb nutrients.
It can lead to a low level of red blood cells.
Vitamin-deficiency anemia happens when a person does not consume or absorb enough vitamin B12, or B9, also known as folate.
It can cause red blood cells to be an unusual shape, so that they cannot function properly.
Nutritional deficiency anemia can affect a wide range of bodily functions.
The main way to treat or prevent it is through a healthful diet.
Iron-deficiency anemia
A lack of iron or some B vitamins can lead to anemia.
Anemia resulting from iron deficiency is considered one of the top 10 contributors to the global burden of disease. The World Health Organization (WHO) describe iron-deficiency anemia as "the most common and widespread nutritional deficiency in the world."
In 2011, the WHO estimated that, globally, anemia affects 43 percent children up to the age of 5 years, 38 percent of women during pregnancy, and 29 percent of women who are not pregnant.
In iron-deficiency anemia, the red cells appear abnormal and are unusually small (microcytic) and pale (hypochromic). The pallor of the red cells reflects their low hemoglobin content.
A person with iron-deficiency anemia often has:
pale skin
fatigue and lack of energy
shortness of breath
heart palpitations, or irregular heart beat
Other symptoms include:
headache
tinnitus
changes to the sense of taste
feeling itchy
a desire to eat ice, known as pica
sores or ulcers at the corner of the mouth
sore tongue
hair loss
spoon-shaped fingernails and toenails
difficulty swallowing
depression
missed menstruation in women during their reproductive years
Iron-deficiency anemia is common in people who:
consume little iron in their diet
have a condition that prevents the body from absorbing nutrients
have a stomach ulcer, heavy menstruation, or another cause of bleeding
have a genetic disorder, such as sickle cell anemia or another health condition, such as malaria
Iron deficiency and diet
Iron-deficiency anemia can result from a lack of iron in the diet. During pregnancy, for example, women need more iron to supply the fetus. If they do not take in enough, this may lead to a dietary deficiency anemia.
Heme iron is the most bioavailable form of iron and is found only in meat. Non-heme iron is found in plant based foods and is not as easily absorbed. Vegetarians and vegans need to be mindful of their iron intake to ensure they are meeting their needs.
A lack of vitamin C in the diet can reduce the body's ability to absorb iron, leading to anemia.
Iron-deficiency anemia can affect a person's overall health and their ability to function at work and in their daily routine.
Vitamin-deficiency anemia
Vitamin-deficiency anemias can result from deficiencies in folate (vitamin B9) or vitamin B12.
When the intake of these nutrients is low, or if the body is not absorbing them properly, red blood cells may become too large or adequate amounts of red blood cells are not produced.
This is called megaloblastic anemia.
A person with vitamin-deficiency anemia may experience:
Symptoms of anemia include dizziness and fatigue.
fatigue and lack of energy
tingling, or pins and needles
muscle weakness
a sore, red tongue
mouth ulcers
visual disturbance
depression and confusion
problems with concentration, thinking, and memory
Long-term complications include:
nervous system disorders, which may be permanent
infertility, which is usually reversible
heart problems, and possible heart failure
complications during pregnancy
congenital disorders in newborns
Everything you need to know about anemia
Find out more about different kinds of anemia
Read now
Causes
Some people have low levels of the necessary nutrients because of:
a low dietary intake of iron, vitamin B12, or folate, due, for example, to a vegan diet or a "monotonous, plant-based diet"
a low dietary intake of Vitamin C
a lack of intrinsic factor, a protein secreted by the stomach that aids in the absorption of vitamin B12
a health condition that makes it hard to absorb nutrients, such as celiac disease
a health conditions that makes it harder for the body to make enough red blood cells
medications, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPI), which affect the way the body absorbs vitamins
Riboflavin, and copper are also needed for the body to make red blood cells. If these are missing from the diet or if a person cannot absorb them, there is a higher risk of anemia.
Other risk factors for anemia
Factors that increase the risk of anemia include:
problems with the hormone erythropoietin, which stimulates the bone marrow to make red blood cells
conditions such as kidney disease and cancer, which make it hard for the body to produce enough red blood cells
some cancer treatments that may damage the bone marrow or reduce the red blood cells' ability to carry oxygen
damaged bone marrow, which cannot make red blood cells fast enough to replace the ones that die or are destroyed
Other factors that increase the risk of anemia include:
HIV or AIDS: Infections or medicines used to treat these diseases can lead to anemia.
Pregnancy: During the first 6 months of pregnancy, the fluid portion of a woman's blood, or plasma, increases faster than the number of red blood cells. This dilutes the blood and can lead to anemia.
Alcohol consumption: This can affect the absorption of folate and vitamin B12, potentially leading to anemia.
Aplastic anemia: Some people are unable to make enough red blood cells from birth. Infants and children with aplastic anemia often need blood transfusions to increase the number of red blood cells in their blood. Certain medicines, toxins, and infectious diseases, also can cause aplastic anemia.
Treatment
Treatment for nutritional deficiency anemia is through a varied diet, including mineral-rich and fortified foods, and vitamin and mineral supplements, if appropriate.
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020 recommend the following daily intake of iron, folate, and B12.
Iron (mg)
B12 (mcg)
Folate mcg DFE
Men 19-30 years
8
2.4
400
Women 19-30 years
18
2.4
400
Men 31-50 years
8
2.4
400
Women 31-50 years
18
2.4
400
DFE means dietary folate equivalent. This is used because folic acid and folate are absorbed differently in the body.
Food sources of iron, B12, and folate
Here are some food sources of iron:
Food item
Amount of iron
Dark chocolate, 3 ounces
7 mg
Fried beef liver, 3 ounces
5 mg
Braised beef, 3 ounces
2 mg
1 hard-boiled egg
1 mg
Tofu, firm, half a cup
3 mg
White beans, canned, 1 cup
8 mg
Spinach, boiled and drained, half a cup
3 mg
Food sources of B12 include:
Food item
Amount of B12
Beef liver, 3 ounces
84.1 mcg
Salmon, 3 ounces
4.8 mcg
Broiled beef, 3 ounces
1.4 mcg
1 hard-boiled egg
0.6 mcg
Swiss cheese, 1 ounce
0.9 mcg
Low-fat milk, 1 cup
1.2 mcg
Good food sources of folate are:
Food item
Amount of folate
Beef liver, 3 ounces
215 mcg DFE
Boiled spinach, 1 cup
131 mcg DFE
White rice, half a cup
90 mcg DFE
Avocado
59 mcg DFE
1 medium banana
24 mcg DFE
Low-fat milk, 1 cup
12 mcg DFE
Fortified cereals are a good source of nutrients. The amount depends on the product and the manufacturer.
Vitamin C enhances iron absorption, while tannin, found in tea, reduces it. Consuming more vitamin C and reducing intake of tannin, therefore, can also help prevent anemia. Good sources of vitamin C include red peppers, oranges, strawberries, and broccoli.
While some causes of anemia require medical treatment, such as transfusions, the WHO estimated that in 2011, half of all cases of anemia in women could be solved through supplementation.
Medical treatment
People who are at risk can take supplements orally or by injection. Those with severe deficiencies may need hospitalization, where they may receive the nutrients intravenously.
A person with B12 anemia may need injections of the vitamin once a month, or they may use a nose spray, a tablet under the tongue, or a tablet that is swallowed.
People with folate deficiency may need to take folate tablets.
If deficiencies result from an inability to absorb nutrients, supplements may be a life-long treatment.
During pregnancy, women may need to take supplemental iron and folic acid. A health care professional can advise about use of these supplements.
However, for most people living in developed countries, a healthful diet that meets the dietary guidelines for nutrients will normally provide enough iron, folate, and vitamin B12 to prevent anemia.
Related coverage
What is anisocytosis? Anisocytosis is a condition in which the red blood cells are not even in size. Cells may be larger or smaller than usual. It often occurs alongside iron-deficiency anemia. Symptoms include fatigue, pale skin, and shortness of breath. Treatment will depend on the cause, but iron-rich foods and supplements can help. Read now
Microcytic anemia: Symptoms, types, and treatment Microcytic anemia occurs when the body does not get enough oxygen and cannot provide enough energy to all organs and tissues, causing pale skin and irritability. The term covers a range of different types of anemia. Learn about the causes, treatment and how to prevent anemia in both adults and infants. Read now
Vitamin B12 Deficiency: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments Vitamin B12 is crucial for the formation of red blood cells, as well as the good functioning and health of nerve tissue. Vitamin B12 deficiency leads to anemia, and nerve damage. Read now
Anemia treatments may arise from red blood cell discovery A discovery about the hormone EPO explains why the body does not make enough red blood cells in iron-restricted anemias and could lead to new treatments. Read now
Macrocytic anemia: Symptoms and treatment Macrocytic anemia is a type of anemia characterized by abnormally large red blood cells. The size of the red blood cells means there are fewer of them to help the body function. In this article, learn about the causes of macrocytic anemia, including folate and B-12 deficiencies, as well as how the condition is treated. Read now
email email
print
share share
Blood / Hematology
Nutrition / Diet
Additional information
Article last updated on Thu 10 August 2017.
Visit our Blood / Hematology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Blood / Hematology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Appendix 7. Nutritional goals for age-sex groups based on dietary reference intakes and Dietary Guidelines recommendations. (2015). Retrieved from https://health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/appendix-7/
Folate. (2016, April 20). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Folate-HealthProfessional/
Fragasso, A. (2012, July 24). Vitamin B12 deficiency in alcoholics. Alcohol, Nutrition and Health Consequences131-134. Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-62703-047-2_10
Hallberg, L., Brune, M., & Rossander, L. (1989). The role of vitamin C in iron absorption. International Journal for Vitamin and Nutrition Research, 30, 103-108. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2507689
Iron. (2016, February 11). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Iron-HealthProfessional/
Iron deficiency anaemia. (2016, January 14). Retrieved from http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Anaemia-iron-deficiency-/Pages/Introduction.aspx
Lichtin, A. E. (n.d.). Vitamin deficiency anemia. Retrieved from https://www.msdmanuals.com/en-gb/home/blood-disorders/anemia/vitamin-deficiency-anemia
Mayo Clinic Staff.(n.d.) Vitamin Deficiency Anemia. Retrieved from http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/vitamin-deficiency-anemia/symptoms-causes/dxc-20265323
Micronutrient deficiencies. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.who.int/nutrition/topics/ida/en/
The global prevalence of anemia in 2011. (2015). Retrieved from http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/177094/1/9789241564960_eng.pdf
Vitamin B12. (2016, February 11). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminB12-HealthProfessional/
Vitamin B12 or folate deficiency anaemia. (2016, May 16). Retrieved from http://www.nhs.uk/conditions/Anaemia-vitamin-B12-and-folate-deficiency/Pages/Introduction.aspx
Vitamin C. (2016, February 11). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminC-HealthProfessional/
Zimmerman, M. B. & Hurrell, R. F. (2007, August 11). Nutritional iron deficiency. The Lancet 370(9586), 511-520. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17693180
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Brazier, Yvette. "What is nutritional deficiency anemia?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 10 Aug. 2017. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/188770.php>
APA
Brazier, Y. (2017, August 10). "What is nutritional deficiency anemia?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/188770.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
Popular in: Blood / Hematology
Blood-thinning foods, drinks, and supplements
Can you have hypoglycemia without diabetes?
What is the purpose of a vitamin B-12 level test?
How to tell if it is a bruise or a blood clot
How can I increase my platelet count naturally?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/188770.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);