Copper supplement (Oral route, parenteral route)
Skip to main content
Find A Doctor
Medical Services
Patients & Visitors
Billing & Insurance
Insurance Information
Financial Assistance & Charity Care Policy
MyLoyola
Medical Records
Support Groups
Quality & Safety
Visitor Information
Visiting Hours
Nearby Accommodations
Healthcare Professionals
Referrals & Transfers
LoyolaConnect
Graduate Medical Education
Stritch School of Medicine
Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
Pharmacy Residency Program
Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE)
Nursing Careers
Physician Services
Loyola University Chicago Graduate Schools
Research & Clinical Trials
Find a Clinical Trial
Research at Stritch
Research at Niehoff
Locations
Giving to Loyola
Find
Secondary menu
myLOYOLA
Pay Your Bill
Contact Us
Giving
Jobs
Main Menu
Find a Doctor
Medical Services
Research & Clinical Trials
Find a Clinical Trial
Research at Stritch
Research at Niehoff
Patients & Visitors
Billing & Insurance
Insurance Information
Financial Assistance & Charity Care Policy
MyLoyola
Medical Records
Support Groups
Quality & Safety
Visitor Information
Visiting Hours
Nearby Accommodations
Healthcare Professionals
Referrals & Transfers
LoyolaConnect
Graduate Medical Education
Stritch School of Medicine
Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
Pharmacy Residency Program
Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE)
Nursing Careers
Physician Services
Loyola University Chicago Graduate Schools
Locations
Browse A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
0-9
Copper supplement (Oral route, parenteral route)
Dosage Forms:
Capsule
Tablet
Uses of This Medicine:
Copper supplements are used to prevent or treat copper deficiency.
The body needs copper for normal growth and health. For patients who are unable to get enough copper in their regular diet or who have a need for more copper, copper supplements may be necessary. They are generally taken by mouth but some patients may have to receive them by injection. Copper is needed to help your body use iron. It is also important for nerve function, bone growth, and to help your body use sugar.
Lack of copper may lead to anemia and osteoporosis (weak bones).
Some conditions may increase your need for copper. These include:
Burns
Diarrhea
Intestine disease
Kidney disease
Pancreas disease
Stomach removal
Stress, continuing
Increased need for copper should be determined by your health care professional.
Claims that copper supplements are effective in the treatment of arthritis or skin conditions have not been proven. Use of copper supplements to cause vomiting has caused death and should be avoided.
Injectable copper is given by or under the supervision of a health care professional. Another form of copper is available without a prescription.
For good health, it is important that you eat a balanced and varied diet. Follow carefully any diet program your health care professional may recommend. For your specific dietary vitamin and/or mineral needs, ask your health care professional for a list of appropriate foods. If you think that you are not getting enough vitamins and/or minerals in your diet, you may choose to take a dietary supplement.
Copper is found in various foods, including organ meats (especially liver), seafood, beans, nuts, and whole-grains. Additional copper can come from drinking water from copper pipes, using copper cookware, and eating farm products sprayed with copper-containing chemicals. Copper may be decreased in foods that have high acid content and are stored in tin cans for a long time.
Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are the amount of vitamins and minerals needed to provide for adequate nutrition in most healthy persons. RDAs for a given nutrient may vary depending on a person's age, sex, and physical condition (e.g., pregnancy).
Daily Values (DVs) are used on food and dietary supplement labels to indicate the percent of the recommended daily amount of each nutrient that a serving provides. DV replaces the previous designation of United States Recommended Daily Allowances (USRDAs).
Recommended Nutrient Intakes (RNIs) are used to determine the amounts of vitamins, minerals, and protein needed to provide adequate nutrition and lessen the risk of chronic disease
There is no RDA or RNI for copper. However, normal daily recommended intakes are generally defined as follows:
Infants and children—
Birth to 3 years of age: 0.4 to 1 milligram (mg) per day.
4 to 6 years of age: 1 to 1.5 mg per day.
7 to 10 years of age: 1 to 2 mg per day.
Adolescent and adult males—1.5 to 2.5 mg per day.
Adolescent and adult females—1.5 to 3 mg per day.
Before Using This Medicine:
If you are taking a dietary supplement without a prescription, carefully read and follow any precautions on the label. For these supplements, the following should be considered:
Allergies—
Tell your doctor if you have ever had any unusual or allergic reaction to medicines in this group or any other medicines. Also tell your health care professional if you have any other types of allergies, such as to foods dyes, preservatives, or animals. For non-prescription products, read the label or package ingredients carefully.
Children—
Problems in children have not been reported with intake of normal daily recommended amounts.
Older adults—
Problems in older adults have not been reported with intake of normal daily recommended amounts.
Pregnancy—
It is especially important that you are receiving enough vitamins and minerals when you become pregnant and that you continue to receive the right amount of vitamins and minerals throughout your pregnancy. The healthy growth and development of the fetus depend on a steady supply of nutrients from the mother. However, taking large amounts of a dietary supplement in pregnancy may be harmful to the mother and/or fetus and should be avoided.
Breast-feeding—
It is important that you receive the right amounts of vitamins and minerals so that your baby will also get the vitamins and minerals needed to grow properly. However, taking large amounts of a dietary supplement while breast-feeding may be harmful to the mother and/or baby and should be avoided.
Other medicines—
Although certain medicines should not be used together at all, in other cases two different medicines may be used together even if an interaction might occur. In these cases, your doctor may want to change the dose, or other precautions may be necessary. Tell your healthcare professional if you are taking any other prescription or nonprescription (over-the-counter [OTC]) medicine.
Other interactions—
Certain medicines should not be used at or around the time of eating food or eating certain types of food since interactions may occur. Using alcohol or tobacco with certain medicines may also cause interactions to occur. Discuss with your healthcare professional the use of your medicine with food, alcohol, or tobacco.
Other medical problems—
The presence of other medical problems may affect the use of dietary supplements in this class. Make sure you tell your doctor if you have any other medical problems, especially:
Biliary disease or
Liver disease—Taking copper supplements may cause high blood levels of copper, and dosage for copper may have to be changed.
Wilson's disease (too much copper in the body)—Copper supplements may make this condition worse.
Proper Use of This Medicine:
Dosing—
The dose medicines in this class will be different for different patients. Follow your doctor's orders or the directions on the label. The following information includes only the average doses of these medicines. If your dose is different, do not change it unless your doctor tells you to do so.
The amount of medicine that you take depends on the strength of the medicine. Also, the number of doses you take each day, the time allowed between doses, and the length of time you take the medicine depend on the medical problem for which you are using the medicine.
For oral dosage form (tablets):
To prevent deficiency, the amount taken by mouth is based on normal daily recommended intakes:
Adult and teenage males—1.5 to 2.5 milligrams (mg) per day.
Adult and teenage females—1.5 to 3 mg per day.
Children 7 to 10 years of age—1 to 2 mg per day.
Children 4 to 6 years of age—1 to 1.5 mg per day.
Children birth to 3 years of age—0.4 to 1 mg per day.
To treat deficiency:
Adults, teenagers, and children—Treatment dose is determined by prescriber for each individual based on the severity of deficiency.
Missed dose—
If you miss a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not double doses.
If you miss taking copper supplements for one or more days there is no cause for concern, since it takes some time for your body to become seriously low in copper. However, if your health care professional has recommended that you take copper try to remember to take it as directed every day.
Storage—
Keep out of the reach of children.
Store the medicine in a closed container at room temperature, away from heat, moisture, and direct light. Keep from freezing.
Do not keep outdated medicine or medicine no longer needed.
Precautions While Using This Medicine:
Do not take copper supplements and zinc supplements at the same time. It is best to take your copper supplement 2 hours after zinc supplements, to get the full benefit of each.
Side Effects of This Medicine:
Along with its needed effects, a medicine may cause some unwanted effects. Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention.
Check with your doctor immediately if any of the following side effects occur:
Symptoms of overdose
Black or bloody vomit
blood in urine
coma
diarrhea
dizziness or fainting
headache (severe or continuing)
heartburn
loss of appetite
lower back pain
metallic taste
nausea (severe or continuing)
pain or burning while urinating
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Other side effects not listed may also occur in some patients. If you notice any other effects, check with your healthcare professional.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Last Updated: 9/4/2017
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites.
All rights reserved
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Firefox and Google Chrome browser.
About Us
About Loyola Medicine
Board of Directors
Clinical Leadership Council
Community Benefits
Events
Giving to Loyola
Learn about Loyola Medicine
Mission Statement
Our Jesuit Mission & Identity
Senior Leadership Group
Volunteer Services
See Also
Gottlieb Memorial Hospital
LUC Stritch School of Medicine
Marcella Niehoff School of Nursing
Loyola University Chicago
Employee Portal
Health Library
Connect with Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Linkedin
Request an Appointment
Contact Us
Copyright © 2015 Loyola University Health System. All rights reserved.
Terms of Use & Online Privacy
Call 888-584-7888 to speak with a representative.