What is Aromatherapy? | Aromatherapy & Essential Oils
Changing Architecture: The transition from the Dark Aeon to the New Aeon has begun. The planet is enduring a
Transition to Next Root Race: What is transpiring at the physical levels of human bodily evolution, is expanding into new human race
24 God Creators: All created different universes, different races. One of these God Creators is called Melchizedek. They created many lines of
Cathars in France: During the current phase of Paliadorian activation, historical timeline trigger events from the Albigensian Crusade, the intentional
Body Awareness: Real Embodiment only happens when the higher consciousness bodies are able to come into the physical realm,
Gurus and Sects: "God gives humans truth. The devil creates an organization around it." Several years ago, I quit my work
Virus in Genetic Engineering: When our inner world is drastically opposing or incongruent with the outer world in which we present
Individualism, Autonomy and Self-Leadership: The current culture wars are using aggressive mind control tactics to purposely attack Individualism, Autonomy and Self-Leadership, to
Right Thinking in Facing Fear: The frequency of fear represents physical, mental, emotional and spiritual bondage. It destroys the capacity for expanding
Clearing from Other Timelines: As a natural part of spiritual Ascension, we will connect into other timelines where the true historical record was
Wholeness: One and Many: “If space and time are illusions, then we are still where it all began, then we have
Mainstreaming Satanism and Luciferianism: Most of us can feel morality and culture being eroded at an increasing pace, but very few
Cross Spirals: When our inner world is drastically opposing or incongruent with the outer world in which we present
Planetary Gridworker: What an intense week it has been leading up to the lunar eclipse event. I’m hoping that
Opening the Relationship With Your Higher Self: To your ordinary personality life in this world is quite real. In fact life as you experience
Alignment to Natural Law: Dear Ascending Family, We are currently experiencing the next level of reckoning or clarification of the principles we
Pestilence Program: Dear ES Family, As we enter into 2019, at this time so many people that are near and
The Mason Jar Money Method: The basic plan starts with just $1 on the first week and you can ease your way
How to Create a Money Jar of Abundance: Are you aware that you can use your psychic ability to invite more money into your life?
What We Should Teach Our Children About Our Inner World: Introduction We are citizens of two worlds: the outer world and our inner world. When we are little
Embodying Integrity: Personal Integrity is the quality of being truthful and honest with yourself and others, of intentionally aligning personal
Mastering Fear: “Be afraid. Be very afraid.” Perhaps you have seen this phrase in reference to journalistic articles talking
Crystal Wind Oracle
Feng Shui
Auras/Chakras
Fairies
Inspirations
Eco-Friendly
Atlantis
YouTube
Search - Categories
Search - Content
Home
Angels
The Angelic Realm
Calling All Angels
Angel Whisperings
Heaven Speaks
Archangel Messages
Archangel Gabriel
Archangel Metatron
Archangel Michael
Heaven Letters
Ann & the Angels
Astrology
Astro Types
Astrology Basics
Celtic Astrology
Chinese Astrology
Native American Astrology
Zodiac Signs
Egyptian Astrology
Astrology News
Latest Astrology News
Astrology by Dale
Current Moon Cycles
Moon Magick
Full Moon Meditation Series
New Moon Meditation Series
New Moon Energy Series
AWAKEN
Featured
Journeys
Crystals, Gems, Elixirs
Crystal of the Day!
Technology
Ever Wonder
Higher Consciousness
Awakening
Earth Shift Energy
Enlightenment
Monthly Energy News
Awakened Lifestyles
Self Empowerment
Selacia
Dr Judith Orloff
Eckhart Tolle
Owen Waters
Carolyn Myss
Sarah-Jane Grace
The Inner Shaman
Helpful Meditations
Emotional Energies
Personal Development
Channeled Messages
The Ascended Masters
Channelings and Spirit Messages
Blue Ray
Gillian MacBeth-Louthan
Patricia Cota-Robles
Brenda Hoffman
William LePar
The Family of Light
The Teachings of Abraham
Spirit with John Cali
From The Creator...
Starseed Messages
The Arcturians
9th Dimensional Arcturian Council
The Hathors
The Pleiadians
The Sirians & Sheldan Nidle
Crystals
Crystals & Gems
Crystals and Gems
Crystals In-Depth
Crystal Skulls
Healing & Tools
Crystal Healing
Crystal Tools
Eureka!
Ancient Wisdom
Alchemy
Ancient Egypt
Emerald Tablets
Feng Shui
Labyrinths
Pyramids
Superstitions
Cosmic Stargate
The Founders
Cosmic Events
Cosmic Neighbours
Andromedans
Galactic History
Starseeds
The Lacerta Files
Elohim
Meta-Science
Alan Watts
David Icke
Gregg Braden
Nikola Tesla
Sacred Geometry
Time Travel
Zero Point
The Truth is a Lie
Red Pill or Blue Pill
Food Fraud
History Book Bias
The Money Sham
UFO's: Time for Disclosure
Vaccines
Healing Paths
Love Yourself Healthy!
Health Yourself
Fantastic Food
Cannabis: Renegade Healer
Ho'oponopono
Armchair Psychology
Alternative Medical Systems
Ayurveda
Homeopathy
Naturopathy
Traditional Chinese Medicine
Mind-Body Techniques
Biofeedback
EFT - Emotional Freedom Technique
Meditation
Tibetan Rejuvenation
Yoga
Energy Therapies
Colour Energy
Electromagnetic
Polarity Therapy
Reiki
Sound Therapy
Therapeutic Touch
Biologically-Based Therapies
Diet, Food and Herbs
Bach Flower Essences
Body-Based Therapies
Aromatherapy Plus
Alexander Technique
Craniosacral Therapy
Feldenkrais Method
Massage Therapy
Osteopathy
Reflexology
Mystica
Earth Enigmas
Atlantis
Crop Circles
Hollow Earth
Lemuria
Power Places
Sacred Places
The Senses
Astral Travel
Auras and Chakras
Color, Light & Sound
Intuitive Connections
Touch, Taste & Smell
Legends, Fables and Lore
King Arthur
Fairy Kingdom
Folklore
Japanese Folklore
Lost Treasure and Gold
Shambhala
Pantheons and Myths
Compendium
Celtic: Ireland, Wales, Scotland & Gaul
Egyptian
Greek
Hindu
Norse
Lugh
Paranormal
Monthly Tarot - Spiritual Magic Journey
Weekly Oracle - Spiritual Magic Journey
Psychics
Psychic Powers
Edgar Cayce
Harry Edwards
Healers
John of God
Braco
Investigation
Electronic Voice Phenomena/EVP
The Afterlife
Unexplained Mysteries
Ghost Stories
Divination
Automatic Writing
Dowsing
Numerology
Palmistry
Remote Viewing
Runes
Tools for Divination
Tarot
Crystal Wind Oracle Readings
Pathfinder
Many Paths
Buddhism
Celtic Path
Gnosticism
Hinduism
Mayan Road
Shinto - Way of God
The Tao
Wisdom of Kabbalah
Zen Living
Native American Path
Walking the Red Road
Moons of the Medicine Wheel
Medicine Wheel Plants
Animal Spirit & Medicine
Neopagan Path
Wicca
Wheel of the Year
Tools of the Craft
Rituals & Workings
Druidry
Inspired Paths
Inspired Mind
Inspired Mind 2017
Inspired Stories
Music and Videos
Poems and Prayers
Twin Flames and Soulmates
Money Honey
Dr. Wayne Dyer
Eco-Friendly Future
The Law of Attraction
Motivation! Get it going...
Featured Documentaries
News
News and Forums
Crystal Wind Forums - Discuss, Debate, Share, Socialize!
TEDx Talks
Current Events
Oracle Cards
The Crystal Wind Oracle Mobile App
The Crystal Wind Oracle Mobile App (Free Demo)
The Crystal Wind Oracle Card Deck
YouTube Videos
Crystal Wind Videos
Ancient Civilizations
Ancient Mysteries
Bashar
Crystal Healing
CrystalworX™
Current Moon Cycles
EFT
Guided Meditations
The Violet Flame
Monthly Tarot Readings -Sherry
About Us!
Advertising Opportunities
The ARCHIVES
Write For CrystalWind.ca!
Guest Post Policy
Animal Totems
Starseeds
Divination Tools
King Arthur
Lost Treasure
Native American
Norse Mythology
Wicca
Forum
Donate
Home
/
Healing Paths
/
Body-Based Therapies
/
Aromatherapy Plus
/
What is Aromatherapy?
Abraham
Edgar Cayce
Nikola Tesla
Braco
Alan Watts
Gregg Braden
Wayne Dyer
John of God
David Icke
Dale Osadchuck
You are here: Home Healing Paths Body-Based Therapies Aromatherapy Plus What is Aromatherapy?
A+ A A-
What is Aromatherapy?
Category: Aromatherapy & Essential Oils Wednesday, 03 September 2008 Hits: 5250
Aromatherapy is the use of essential oils from plants for healing purposes. The word aroma in aromatherapy is misleading because essential oils are not solely used as inhalants. They can also be massaged into the skin or even taken orally (although this is less common). Whether inhaled, absorbed, or ingested, essential oils are gaining new attention as an alternative treatment for infections, stress, and other health problems. (Note: essential oils should never be ingested without specific instruction from a trained and qualified specialist.)
What are essential oils?
Essential oils are concentrated extracts taken from the roots, leaves, or blossoms of plants. Each essential oil contains its own mix of active ingredients, and this mix determines the healing properties of the oil. Some oils promote physical healing -- for example, some are able to relieve swelling or fight fungal infections. Others are used for their emotional value -- they may enhance relaxation or make a room smell pleasant. The essential oil derived from orange blossom, for example, contains a large amount of ester, an active ingredient thought to induce a calming effect. This may explain the tradition of a bride carrying an orange blossom bouquet on her wedding day.
What is the history of aromatherapy?
Essential oils have been used for therapeutic purposes for nearly six thousand years. The ancient Chinese, Indians, Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans used essential oils in cosmetics, perfumes, and drugs. Essential oils were also commonly used for spiritual, therapeutic, hygienic, and ritualistic purposes.
More recently, René-Maurice Gattefossé, a French chemist, discovered the healing properties of lavender oil when he applied it to a burn on his hand after an explosion in his laboratory. Following this unexpected finding, he devoted his time to analyzing the chemical properties of essential oils and to recording their value in treating burns, skin infections, gangrene, and wounds in soldiers during World War I. In 1928, Gattefossé founded the science of aromatherapy. By the 1950's massage therapists, beauticians, nurses, physiotherapists, doctors, and other healthcare professionals began using aromatherapy. In France, more than 1,500 trained physicians use essential oils as an alternative to antibiotics.
Aromatherapy did not become popular in the United States until the 1980s, when essential oils gained the attention of massage therapists, alternative practitioners, and the commercial industry. Today, many lotions, candles, and beauty products are sold under the name "aromatherapy." Unfortunately, however, many of these products contain synthetic fragrances which do not have the therapeutic substances found in essential oils.
How does aromatherapy work?
Researchers are not entirely clear how aromatherapy works, but many experts speculate that our sense of smell plays a very important role. This sense is incredibly powerful -- according to some estimates, about 10,000 times stronger than any other sense. The "smell" receptors in your nose communicate with two structures that are embedded deep in your brain and serve as storehouses for emotions and memories. These structures are called the amygdala and hippocampus. When essential oil molecules are inhaled, they affect these parts of the brain directly. Researchers believe that stimulation of these structures influences our physical, emotional, and mental health. For example, lavender is believed to stimulate the activity of brain cells in the amygdala in the same way that certain sedative medications work.
In addition to stimulating certain brain structures through your sense of smell, essential oils can also influence mood through several other methods. Aromatherapy massage is a popular way of using essential oils because it works in several ways at the same time: it produces benefits from absorbing the oils into the skin, from inhaling the oil's vapors, and from the physical therapy of the massage process itself.
What happens during an aromatherapy session?
Professional aromatherapists, nurses, physical therapists, and massage therapists can provide topical or inhaled aromatherapy treatment. Only specially trained professionals can provide treatment that involves the ingestion of essential oils.
At a typical aromatherapy session, the practitioner will ask about your medical history and symptoms, as well as any preferences you may have for certain scents. Depending upon the condition of your health, the practitioner will instruct you to inhale essential oils either directly from a piece of cloth, or indirectly through steam inhalations, vaporizers, or sprays. The practitioner may also apply diluted essential oils to your skin during a massage. In most cases, the practitioner will instruct you on how to continue using aromatherapy at home. For example, many essential oils can be mixed with milk or cream and added to a bath.
What is aromatherapy good for?
Aromatherapy is used in a wide range of settings - from health spas to hospitals - to treat a variety of conditions. In general, aromatherapy appears to ease pain, enhance mood, and promote a sense of relaxation.
In a study that included more than 8,000 pregnant women in labor, essential oils (particularly rose, lavender, and frankincense) administered by qualified midwives, lessened feelings of anxiety and fear, promoted a sense of well-being, and reduced the need for pain medications during the delivery. Many women also report that peppermint oil relieves nausea and vomiting during labor.
Massage therapy with essential oils may also be of value (together with medications and/or therapy) for people with depression. The smells of the oils are believed to stimulate positive emotions through the limbic system (the area of the brain responsible for memories and emotions). However, the benefits of aromatherapy with massage appear to be related to the relaxation effects of the treatment as well as to an individual's belief that the treatment will be helpful.
Studies have found that chemical compounds in certain essential oils have antibacterial and anti-fungal properties. Some evidence also suggests that citrus oils may enhance immune function and that peppermint oil may promote proper digestion. Fennel, aniseed, sage, and clary-sage have estrogen-like compounds which may make them effective in relieving symptoms associated with premenstrual syndrome, menopause, and the menstrual cycle.
Other conditions for which aromatherapy may be helpful include:
Alopecia areata (hair loss)
Agitation, including, possibly, agitation related to dementia
Anxiety
Constipation (namely, abdominal massage using aromatherapy)
Insomnia
Pain: Studies have found that people with rheumatoid arthritis, cancer (specifically, topical chamomile), and headaches (specifically, topical peppermint) require fewer pain medications when they use aromatherapy.
Pruritis (itching), a common side effect for those receiving hemodialysis
Psoriasis
Should anyone avoid aromatherapy?
Women in the first trimester of pregnancy as well as people with severe asthma or a history of allergies should avoid all essential oils.
Pregnant women as well as people with a history of seizures should avoid hyssop oil.
People with high blood pressure should avoid stimulating essential oils such as rosemary and spike lavender.
Those with estrogen-dependent tumors (such as breast or ovarian cancer) should not use oils with estrogen-like compounds such as fennel, aniseed, sage, and clary-sage.
Caution should be exercised when considering use of aromatherapy in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.
Is there anything I should watch out for?
Most topical and inhaled essential oils are generally considered safe. You should never ingest essential oils unless a trained professional advises you to do so. Some oils are toxic and taking them orally could be fatal.
Rare side effects of aromatherapy can include allergic reaction including rash, headache, liver and nerve damage, as well as harm to the fetus (this is why aromatherapy should be avoided during pregnancy unless specifically instructed by an expert).
Oils that are high in phenols, such as cinnamon, can cause skin irritation. Dilute oil with water or a base massage oil (such as almond or sesame oil) before applying to your skin and avoid using near your eyes. In addition, essential oils are highly volatile and flammable so they should never be used near an open flame.
Animal studies suggest that active ingredients in certain essential oils can interact with some medications, but studies in people are needed to confirm. Eucalyptus, for example, may clear certain medications, including pentobarbital (used for seizures) and amphetamine (a stimulant used for narcolepsy and, sometimes, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder) from the body more quickly, which makes these drugs less effective.
The essential oils sold in stores are often mislabeled. For this reason, you cannot be entirely sure that the amount of essential oil contained in the bottle, or even from dose to dose (if the oil is in capsules), is the same as what is stated on the label. A qualified aromatherapist can help you decide which oils will be most effective for you and can direct you to high-quality products.
What is the future of aromatherapy?
Although essential oils have been used for centuries, few studies have investigated the safety and effectiveness of aromatherapy in people. While there are many potential uses of aromatherapy in a wide variety of settings, conclusive evidence of its effectiveness is lacking. Additionally, there are some concerns regarding the safety and quality of certain essential oils. More research is necessary before aromatherapy becomes a widely accepted alternative remedy with clear medical indications.
For a list of supporting research on this article, visit:
www.umm.edu/altmed/articles/aromatherapy-000347.htm
CrystalWind.ca is free to access and use.
"Would you consider a small gift of $11.11 ?" :)
ॐ Namasté - Blessings!
"Life is an echo, what you send out comes back."
© 2008-2018 crystalwind.ca. All rights reserved.
Your Crystal For Today!
Click Here Now!
Latest Articles
Death and Rebirth ~ Eternal Life And Ascension
What is Planetary Ascension? The Arcturians
Mother Mary, Yeshua & Mary Magdalene Speak
Daily Message April 19, 2019 - Goddess of Creation
The Creator - Take Some ‘Me Time’
Archangel Gabriel's Daily Message ~ Friday April 19, 2019
Angel Wisdom - Trusting Yourself
Daily Quote - April 19, 2019 - Abraham
Blue Moon in Libra - Shining Light on Relationships
Deliverance of the Diamond Consciousness by Archangel Metatron
Essence of Self and the Convergence
AromaworX™
The Essential Guide
To Essential Oils, & Herbs
www.aromaworx.ca
CLICK HERE NOW!
Free Reading Here!!
Cut Through The Illusions!
The Crystal Wind Oracle Mobile App!
Available On The
Apple / Android / Amazon
NEW Expanded Version - 53 cards!
Testimonials & Info HERE!!
Articles: Aromatherapy
10 Essential Oils for Detoxing and Boosting Overall Immunity
12 Sweet Basil Oil Fixes That Really Work
21 Health Benefits of Peppermint: Power Revealed
5 Essential Oils to Heal Your Broken Heart
5 Reasons to Make Your Own Healing Potions and How to Do It
A Beginner’s Guide to Oils, Salves and Tinctures
Add a Little Lavender Love into Your Life
Aromatherapy Can Help Reduce Anxiety
Aromatherapy History and Origin
Aromatherapy: Quintessential Essential Oils For Fall
Essential Oil Background
Essential Oils for Magic
Essential Oils for Pain Relief
Essential Oils Stop Cancer in its Tracks
Feeling Depressed? Burning Frankincense Might Help
Frankincense - The Amazing Uses Of This Ancient Oil For Cancer, Anxiety and Arthritis!
Frankincense Found to Trump Chemo in Eliminating Ovarian Cancer
Frankincense Oil : Removes Skin Warts and Moles
Helichrysum Essential Oil - Benefits, Uses, Recipes
How Essential Oils Can Help Improve Your Life
How to Raise Your Vibration with Essential Oils
Hypothyroidism and Essential Oils: Natural Remedies Ignored by Mainstream Medicine
Lavender Oil has Potent Antifungal Effect
Natural First Aid & Illness Kit
Pure Essential Oils and Bio-Frequency
Rose Oil May Heal Heart Disease, Cancer, And Depression
Scientists Find Sniffing Rosemary Can Increase Memory By 75%
Six Powerful Ways To Use Lavender During The Cold And Flu Season
Study: Lavender Oil Improves Migraine Symptoms by 74%
The 3 Best Spiritually Energizing Essential Oils ~ Healing, Health and Harmony
The Best Essential Oils for Itchy Skin
The Miracle of Cloves and Clove Oil
The Miracle of Tea Tree Oil: 80 Amazing Uses for Survival
The Most Powerful Aromatherapy Oils For Your Happiest Summer
These 6 Essential Oils Are Great Natural Alternatives to Pharmaceutical Medicines
This Essential Oil Fights Infections, Improves Circulation and Stops Cigarette Cravings!
This Is What Happens To Your Lungs and Air When You Diffuse Essential Oils
Top 2 Essential Oils for a Good Night's Sleep
What is Aromatherapy?
<
Featured This Month
Page:
Aries Spiritual Stone - Eudialyte
Eudialyte Birthstone: Aries Planet: Mars Element: Fire Chakra: Heart Read more
Budding Trees Moon
Red Hawk - Fire Opal - Dandelion - Yellow March 21 – April 19 The Budding ... Read more
Hematite
The Grounding Stone With its iron content, hematite has a strengthening inf... Read more
Aries
ARIES Mar 21 - Apr 20 Spirit: Adventurous, courageous Objectives: To plan... Read more
White Magic - Spring Prosperity Spell
Spring Prosperity Spell for the Month of March Because it is the waxing par... Read more
Sun in Aries
Aries March 21 through April 20 An Overview of Sun Sign Characteristics for A... Read more
The Time of No Time: Beltane!
Around the medicine wheel of life we go, from season to season (solstice to ... Read more
Beltane
Beltane Ritual Celebrated May 1st Beltane is also known as May Day, Walpurg... Read more
Bright Beltane Blessings!
The wheel turns to Beltane, also known as Mayday, marking the beginning of S... Read more
Diamond
The King of all Stones The diamond symbolizes wisdom and enlightenment, pur... Read more
Bloodstone
The Blood Energizer Stone The combined colours of bloodstone allow it to fu... Read more
The Willow Tree - April 15th - May 12th
The Fire Festival Of Beltane Celtic Symbol : The Sea Serpent Zodiac Degree... Read more
Green Aventurine
The Emotional Balancer Stone Green Aventurine is perhaps the best balancing... Read more
Birth Totem - Falcon
Birth Totem Falcon Birth dates: March 21 – April 19 Birth Totem is: Falcon... Read more
Dandelion
Reminds you of the abundance life holds. Gender: Masculine Planet: Jupiter E... Read more
Astrology
Latest Astrology News
Celtic Zodiac
Chinese Astrology
Moon Cycles
Native American Astrology
Zodiac Signs
Home
About Crystal Wind
Legal & Privacy
Sitemap
Positive SSL
© 2008-2018 CrystalWind.ca. Site Creation by CreativeInceptions.com.
JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.
X
Right Click
No right click