Top 5 Smart Ways to Stop Headaches - Emed
Menu
Search
Cart
Login
Log In 0 items | $0.00
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Lost Password
x
Shop
eClinic
Clinic
News
Testing
Nutrition
Conditions
Resources
Sports
Support
Support
Search for:
Nutrition
Conditions
Resources
Sports
Support
Log In Register 0 items | $0.00
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Lost Password
x
Archives
open all | close all
Show More Links
Hide More Links
Emed > Headache > Top 5 Smart Ways to Stop Headaches
Top 5 Smart Ways to Stop Headaches
Here are Emeds Top 5 Ways to Stop Headaches
1. Drink More Water
It is so very simple. But so very important.
We all know that water is good for us, but often the reasons are a little fuzzy. And even if we know why we should drink water, it’s not a habit that many people form.
Water is often snubbed for more fancy drinks like coffee, soft drink, tea, juice and alcohol.
But there are some very powerful reasons to drink lots of water every day – almost nothing hydrates you better than water.
Being dehydrated can zap your energy and make you feel tired. Even mild dehydration of as little as 1 or 2 percent of your body weight.
If you’re thirsty, you’re already dehydrated – and this can lead to fatigue, muscle weakness, dizziness and other symptoms.
Another symptom of dehydration is, you guessed it, headaches.
In fact, often when we have headaches it’s simply a matter of not drinking enough water.
Research suggests a link between staying hydrated and experiencing fewer migraine attacks. In one study, researchers observed two groups of migraine-prone individuals, giving one group a placebo and upping the other group’s water intake by an average of four cups per day.
Two weeks later, the water group reported lessened headache severity and 21 fewer hours of pain compared to the placebo group (arguably worth the extra bathroom breaks!).
Ok, so if more water is indeed the answer, how much exactly is enough? Aim for 35ml of filtered water per kilo of your body weight each day. And you may need more if it’s hot or you’re exercising.
2. Eat Smaller Meals More Often
This is a surefire method to keep your energy levels up and your headaches away!
Provided you include some lean, clean protein in most meals that is. Protein keeps your blood sugar levels balanced and prevents symptoms of hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar).
Blood sugar spikes and dips are a trigger for headaches and by simply planning healthy, smaller, regular meals you can keep headaches at bay and also balance your moods, weight and energy.
Emed’s article Give 3.30itis the Flick gives you some more in depth information as well as the science behind the symptoms.
Other than this, it may be useful to avoid certain foods that have been found to trigger migraines and tension headaches.
The main culprits include:
Foods containing Tyramine – such as cheese, fermented meats, sour cream, pickled foods and red wine.
Foods containing Phenylethylamine – such as chocolate.
Other Vasoconstrictive foods – such as citrus fruits, MSG, figs, raisins, dairy foods, bananas, aspartame and certain food colourings and additives.
3. Magnesium for Migraines
Magnesium truly is a marvellous mineral! And for banishing headaches and migraines, it has been touted by some as an absolute miracle.
Magnesium supplementation is very important in preventing headaches. There is now considerable evidence to show that low magnesium levels trigger both migraine and tension headaches.
In individuals with chronic headaches that have low magnesium levels, magnesium supplementation has been shown to produce excellent results in double-blind studies.
Other symptoms of low magnesium levels include fatigue, irritability, weakness, heart disturbances, mental confusion, muscle cramps, loss of appetite, insomnia, and a predisposition to stress.
See Emed’s Best Magnesium Supplements for some ideas on what to take. The best product for severe sufferers would be one that contains not only a lot of magnesium, but one that also contains a fair amount of Taurine.
If Magnesium is the number one nutrient for headaches and migraines, Taurine is definitely its sidekick.
Taurine stabilises high stress people and helps your liver immensely.
High Potency Taurine, Glycine and Magnesium for Cardiovascular Health has a huge whack of Taurine in it, along with a highly bioavailable dose of Magnesium, and is Emed’s favourite for treating migraines.
4. Fight the Pain with Fish Oil
There are two main omega-3 fatty acids found naturally in fish oil that we consider to be essential.
These fatty acids we must have in our diet – and if we don’t we miss out on the short and long term health benefits our fishy friends provide.
These essential omega-3 fatty acids are known as EPA and DHA. They work on all cells of the body, making sure that nutrients and chemical messages can pass smoothly from cell to cell throughout all body systems.
Omega-3s also have anti-inflammatory properties as well as specific benefits to our brain, heart and joint health.
Because fish oils help control the constriction and dilation of your blood vessels and they are anti-inflammatory (especially those fish oils high in the essential fatty acid EPA), they may be used to prevent headaches and migraines.
You deserve an effective and pure fish oil, as nature intended so Emed has compiled the very best in fish oil supplements to keep at bay those pesky pains.
5. Get some Hands On Treatment with your Musculoskeletal Practitioner
Whether it’s an Osteopath, Chiropractor, Myotherapist, Masseur or Physio that you prefer – get someone to give you the once over!
Regular Musculoskeletal Care is an important part of any Wellness Plan and may remove roadblocks to your recovery and a new pain-free you.
If this 5 Point Plan doesn’t ease your hurting head then book in to see one of Emed’s Practitioners for a comprehensive health review.
Further Reading:
Nurofen, Stomach Ulcers & Bleeding from the Bowel
Are We a Nation of Over-the-Counter Drug Addicts?
Email to a friend
Comments Cancel Reply
We would love to hear from you but please don’t put your URL or business name in the comment text as it looks like spam and will be blocked.
Have fun and thanks for adding to the conversation.
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong>
Name *
Email *
Website
Home
My Dashboard
News
Register
Nutrition
Resources
Sports
Info
Clinic
eConsults
Arthritic Tests
Detox
Genetic Testing
Nutrient Status
Thyroid
Weight Loss
Help
Contact Us
About Us
Practitioner Only
Can’t Login?
Delivery
Probiotics
Returns
Privacy Policy © 2019 emed.com.au