Top Selenium Benefits – Make sure you get enough
Selenium Benefits– Why getting enough may be one of your smartest health moves
At a loss to name even one if not two selenium benefits? Here's your cheat sheet...
Selenium is an essential mineral that your body needs for a host of metabolic, endocrine and immune functions including DNA repair . Your body doesn't make it, so you must get it from diet or supplements.
It is a powerful anti-oxidant and team player in the function and production of other anti-oxidants including vitamin E and glutathione peroxidase. It’s key for managing and preventing many degenerative and inflammatory conditions.
Selenium Benefits for Thyroid Disease – High selenium intake, especially in the case of iodine-deficient individuals, reduces the risk of thyroid problems including goiter and thyroid tissue damage. Selenium supplementation can improve symptoms of grave’s disease (hyperthyroidism) and help prevent pregnant women with thyroid antibodies from developing postpartum thyroiditis.
The best selenium sources are meat, seafood and whole grain cereals – the latter however depend on the selenium content of the soil in which they are grown. Because of this, depending on where you live, inadequate selenium can become a problem.
While important not to overdose on selenium, high levels have been linked to prevention or improvement in a number of conditions including cancers, cardio-vascular disease, inflammatory conditions, thyroid problems and immune dysfunction.
Selenium Benefits Primer: Selenium's many roles
Selenium is a powerful anti-oxidant that is a co-factor in synthesis of glutathione peroxidase and a constituent of the sulfur amino acids, many of which are effective free radical scavengers in their own right. Selenium also improves the anti-oxidant function of vitamin E. It’s thought this anti-oxidant role is one reason why it is so effective to combat inflammatory conditions like asthma, rheumatoid arthritis and certain cancers.
Cancer and Selenium Benefits
A 2011 Cochrane review of a raft of epidemiological studies and found a correlation between selenium intake and reduced cancer risk. Subjects with the highest selenium intakes had a 31% lower cancer rate and 45 % lower cancer mortality rate than those with the lowest selenium intakes. For bladder cancer, high intake individuals had a 33% lesser risk; for prostate cancer, the reduced risk was 22%. There was no correlation between selenium intake and breast cancer rates. Studies on selenium supplementation to prevent cancer have been mixed with some positive results linked to prostate cancer (52% to 65% reduced risk) using high selenium yeast but other studies showing no correlation.
Research has confirmed selenium’s ability to repair damaged DNA as well as contribute to cell apoptosis (cell death), which may explain its preventative role in cancer.
Selenium concentrations are particularly high in the thyroid gland. This may be one explanation for its beneficial effects with thyroid related conditions including, grave’s disease, goiter and thyroiditis.
Selenium Benefits Primer: Symptoms of not getting enough.
Symptoms of low selenium intake include the following:
Chronic inflammation and related conditions
Recurring infection
Fatigue
Selenium Benefits Primer: Why care about not getting enough selenium?
Selenium deficiencies linked to some very serious conditions, including the following:
Cancer especially colorectal, lung, bladder, skin, oesophageal and stomach cancer.
Grave’s disease (hyperthyroidism)
Hypothyroidism
Cardiovascular disease, including high LDL, inflammation and thick blood
Age-related cognitive decline
Adequate levels of selenium have been associated with improved symptoms related to
Rheumatoid arthritis including less joint swelling and pain and fewer markers of inflammation.
Asthma
Chron’s disease
Heavy metal toxicity.
Selenium Benefits Primer: Who is at risk for selenium deficiency?
Those who live in regions with selenium-deficient soil, which include the UK, parts of Europe as well as parts of southern and north-eastern North America.
Those on kidney dialysis.
Those with HIV.
Those with digestive problems like IBS, Crohn’s disease and colitis.
Selenium Benefits for Cardiovascular Health- Selenium supplementation has been found to lower LDL (bad) cholesterol and increase HDL (good) cholesterol as well as prevent blood stickiness (platelet aggregation), inflammation, and lipid oxidation – all factors in the development of cardiovascular disease. A 2006 meta-analysis of 25 studies found that those with the lowest selenium levels had greater risk of cardiovascular disease than those with higher selenium levels. However, other studies have not shown any preventative effect of selenium supplementation.
Selenium Benefits Primer: How much do you need?
The US recommended daily dietary allowance (RDA) for selenium is as follows:
Birth to 6 months - 15 mcg*
7-12 months – 20 mcg*
1-3 years – 20 mcg
4-8 years - 30 mcg
9-13 years – 40 mcg
14 years and over - 55 mcg
Pregnant women – 60 mcg
Lactating women – 70 mcg
*These figures are adequate intake (AI’s), established when there is insufficient evidence to determine an RDA.
Selenium Benefits Primer: Don't Overdo it - Selenium Toxicity
But remember, like many minerals, don’t overdo it. Excess selenium can lead to health problems like brittle nails, hair loss, skin lesions, nausea, diarrhea, skin rashes, mottled teeth, irritability, tiredness, and nervous system abnormalities. Acute selenium toxicity can lead to kidney failure, heart failure and death, among other nasties.
The US Institute of Medicine, Food & Nutrition Board includes the following tolerable upper intake levels for selenium.
Birth to 6 months - 45 mcg*
7-12 months – 60 mcg
1-3 years – 90 mcg
4-8 years - 150 mcg
9-13 years – 280mcg
14 years and over - 400 mcg (including pregnant & lactating women)
*Breast milk, formula and food should be the only source of selenium for babies.
Selenium Benefits Primer - Selenium Testing - How to Test and
Blood tests for selenium show recent selenium intake. Concentrations of 8 mcg/dL or higher in blood or plasma are considered adequate.
To determine long- term selenium status over months and years, hair and nail analysis is used.
Selenium Benefits Primer: So where can I get some?
The top dietary sources of selenium are seafood and organ meats. Following that are muscle meats, whole grains and dairy foods. A 2010 study published in Journal of Nutrition estimated that most folks in the US get the majority of their selenium from bread, grains, meat, poultry, fish and eggs.
However, along with the above mentioned staples, there are a host of other foods that can provide the benefits of selenium. Press her for a list of selenium foods as long as your arm.
Selenium Benefits Primer: When food is not enough.
When you can’t get enough selenium via diet; are in a high risk group for selenium deficiency or suffer a specific health condition which may benefit from addedselenium intake, supplemental selenium is an option.
The main forms of supplemental selenium are selenomethionine, selenium enriched yeast, and sodium selenite or sodium selenite. Selenomethionine is better absorbed than sodium selenite forms; with the former having a 90% absorption rate and the latter a 50% absorption rate.
Selenium is a common component in multi-vitamins, so before supplementing separately check your brand to see if selenium is included.
Experts advise you not to supplement more than 200 mcg except with the advice of a physician. Toxic levels have been found at 900 mcg per day. Excess selenium can interfere with enzyme function as well as bone, teeth growth and liver health.
For more on Selenium and related topics…
Press here for more on selenium foods from which you can get selenium benefits.
Press here for more on the benefits of multi-vitamins.
Press here for more on cancer prevention diet.
Press here for more low cholesterol diet tips.
Press on Healthy Diet Blog for timely news about health and nutrition.
Press her for Healthy Diet Home.
[?]Want the latest in diet and health research? Subscribe to Healthy Diet News Blog and save time surfing the internet.
Follow @forhealthyyou
Home
Diet Research & News
Healthy Diet Blog
What's a Healthy Diet?
A Healthy Diet
Unhealthy Foods
Food Pyramid
Calories
Healthy Diet Tips
Food Labels
Organic Food
Anti-oxidants
Vitamins?
Key Nutrients
Enzymes
Omega 3 Benefits
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Calcium
Zinc
Magnesium
Chromium
Potassium
Selenium
B12
Folic Acid
CoQ10
Blood Sugar Balance
What is Diabetes?
Diabetes Stats
Diabetes Diet Info
Type 2 Diabetes
Metabolic Syndrome
Low Glycemic
Balance Blood Sugar
Testing Blood Sugar
Prevent Inflammation
Inflammation
Anti-inflammatory Supplement
Inflammatory Foods
Cardio Health & Diet
Healthy Heart
Heart Supplements
High Blood Pressure
Cholesterol Tips
Lower Cholesterol
Cancer & Diet
Cancer
Cancer Prevention
Cancer Fighting Diet
Cancer Foods
Breast Cancer
Lung Cancer
Disease & Diet
Anemia
Kidney Disease
Parkinsons
Adrenal Fatigue
Diet for Down Under
Constipation Remedies
Constipation Foods
Hemorrhoids
Recipes
Healthy Recipes
Who are we?
About
Site Map
Follow @forhealthyyou
If you found this free information interesting or useful, please like, share or retweet to your friends.
Thanks.
Follow @forhealthyyou
2018 © healthy-diet-healthy-you.com Your gustatory prescription for good health
This Web site is informational only and does not offer personal medical advice. Seek the advice of your qualified health provider regarding a medical condition or concern. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this Web site.
SBI!