Transformed-migraines - Smith CenterSmith Center
Dr. Kevin Smith
Migraines
Abdominal-migraine
Aura-migraines
Chronic-migraines
Cluster-migraines
Complex-Migraines
Daily-migraines
Familial-migraines
Hemiplegic-migraines
Hormonal-migraines
Hypertension-migraines
Ocular-migraines
Post-traumatic-migraines
Silent-migraines
Sinus-migraines
Sleep-migraines
Tension-migraines
Transformed-migraines
Facelift
Smith Lift
Rhinoplasty
Ethnic Rhinoplasty
Eyelid Surgery
Gallery
Facelift
Facelift Patient 03 Front View
Facelift Patient 03 (Side View)
Facelift Patient 02
Facelift Patient 01
Mini Facelift
Mini Facelift Patient 01 (Side View)
Mini Facelift Patient 01 (Front View)
Rhinoplasty
Rhinoplasty Patient 14
Rhinoplasty Patient 13 (Side View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 13 (Front View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 12
Rhinoplasty Patient 09 (Side View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 11
Rhinoplasty Patient 10 (Side View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 10 (Front View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 09 (Front View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 08
Rhinoplasty Patient 07 (Side View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 06 (Side View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 06 (Front View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 05
Rhinoplasty Patient 04
Rhinoplasty Patient 03
Rhinoplasty Patient 01 (Front View)
Rhinoplasty Patient 02
Rhinoplasty Patient 01 (Side View)
Eyelid Surgery
Eyelids Patients 04 (Front View)
Eyelids Patient 05
Eyelids Patient 04 (Side View)
Eyelids Patient 03
Eyelids Patient 02
Chin Implant
Chin Implant Patient 02 (Side View)
Chin Implant Patient 02 (Front View)
Chin Implant Patient 01
Chemical Peel
Chemical Peel Patient 01
Liposuction
Laser CO2
Laser CO2 Patient 03 (Side View)
Laser CO2 Patient 03 (Front View)
Laser CO2 Patient 02
Laser CO2 Patient 01
Testimonials
Blog
Contact
Call or Text (713) 795-0600
Transformed-migraines
Transformed Migraines
Finally, the root cause of migraines and headache pain can be identified and eliminated
Find Your Migraine Relief Today
Learn More
Understanding Transformed Migraines and Their Triggers
For many people, migraine headaches only occur a few times a year or even a couple times a month. However, some people end up dealing with regular migraines that start occurring nearly every day. These headaches are known as “transformed migraines,” and it’s important to diagnose them and their underlying cause to find the best treatment for the problem.
What Is a Transformed Migraine?
A transformed migraine is a migraine that begins to manifest in regular episodes of migraine attacks, and they typically begin to increase in frequency and may change characteristics. Headaches may become less severe, but they may start occurring nearly daily. However, severe, debilitating migraine attacks may still take place.
What can trigger a Transformed Migraine?
Although transformed migraines generally develop over a period of months or years, it’s thought that regularly using pain relievers and migraine medications may trigger transformation to occur. Patients may build up a tolerance to the medications they are taking. Certain pain relievers that contain caffeine may also trigger rebound headaches. Other health problems may also trigger transformed migraines, such as depression and high blood pressure.
How many people are affected by Transformed Migraines?
There’s no exact data on the number of people affected by this type of migraine, but most of the people who experience them have a history of migraines that started when they were young. Most patients affected by transformed migraines are women, and approximately 90 percent of them have experienced migraines with aura in the past.
How do Transformed Migraines affect most people?
Usually, the transformation process takes place over months or years, until the patient begins getting the migraines daily. The attacks are often accompanied by nausea, phonophobia and photophobia, but the symptoms become less frequent and severe. Transformed migraines include a pattern of daily or nearly daily headaches that seem to be a combination of migraine attacks and tension headaches. The pain may be only mild to moderate instead of the intense pain that comes with severe migraines. Other symptoms of migraines may continue, including stomach symptoms and unilateral pain.
If you begin to have daily migraine headaches, even if they aren’t as severe as your normal migraines, it’s important to see a migraine specialist. A specialist can help you figure out if you’re dealing with transformed migraines and then work with you to find an effective, safe treatment.
If you are suffering from Transformed Migraines, schedule your consultation today!
Learn More
Social Media
Want to see more videos?
Subscribe to Smith Center's YouTube channel.
Location
Smith Center
1701 South Shepherd Dr., Suite D
Houston TX, 77019 713-795-0600
At the Smith Center, located in Houston's River Oaks, we offer the very best in facial plastic surgery procedures, including facelift, rhinoplasty, and eyelid surgery. Led by renowned board certified facial plastic surgeon, Dr. Kevin Smith, we only provide the highest quality patient care and use only the latest in medical technology and surgical techniques.
Get Directions
Contact Us
Name *
Email *
Phone Number
Procedure Interest MigrainesRhinoplastyEthnic RhinoplastyFaceliftSmithLiftEyeLid Surgery
How Did You Hear About Us ? * FacebookInstagramYoutubeTV ShowGoogle Search EngineWord of Mouth
Questions
Message
Submit
We do not take Medicare or Medicaid insurance. | © Smith Center 2015