The Benefits of Music Therapy – Harmonious Chorale Ghana
Home
About Us
Mission and Vision
Events and Impact
Partnerships
Awards
Project
Our Events
Meet Us
Management
The Choir
News
Press
Blog
Contact Us
Donate
The Benefits of Music Therapy
22
Feb
What does “benefits of music therapy” mean? If you like music, you know it can make an important difference in how you’re feeling. But you may be surprised to learn what a difference music can make for people who are depressed or who are anxious because they’re sick. For these people, music can be used to enhance their health.
Although music therapy is often used to promote mental and emotional health, it may also help improve quality of life for people coping with physical health problems.
What Happens
A music therapy session may incorporate a number of different elements, such as making music, writing songs, or listening to music. The music therapist’s goal may be, for example, to encourage a patient to express emotion, to help relieve a patient’s stress or anxiety, to help improve a patient’s mood, and/or to enhance the quality of life if the patient’s coping with illness.
Research shows that patients don’t need any musical ability to benefit from music therapy.
Benefits
Here’s a look at some key findings from clinical studies in which music therapy’s effects on patients’ health were evaluated.
Depression. Music therapy may help some patients fight depression, according to a report published in 2008. Researchers sized up data from five previously published studies; in four of them, participants receiving music therapy were more likely to see a decrease in depression symptoms compared to those who did not receive music therapy. According to the report’s authors, patients appeared to experience the greatest benefits when therapists used theory-based music therapy techniques, such as painting to music and improvised singing.
Stress. Music therapy may help ease stress in pregnancy, according to a 2008 study of 236 healthy pregnant women. Compared to a control group, the 116 study participants who received music therapy showed significantly greater reductions in stress, anxiety, and depression. The music therapy involved listening to a half-hour of soothing music twice daily for two weeks.
In a research report published in 2009, investigators found that listening to music may also benefit patients who experience severe stress and anxiety because of having coronary heart disease. The report included two studies on patients treated by trained music therapists. Results showed that listening to music had a beneficial effect on blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and pain in people with coronary heart disease.
Autism. Music therapy may help improve communication skills in children with autistic spectrum disorder, according to a review published in 2006. However, the review’s authors note that the included studies were of “limited applicability to clinical practice” and that “more research is needed to examine whether the effects of music therapy are enduring.”
Cancer. Research suggests that music therapy may offer a number of benefits for people coping with cancer. For instance, music therapy has been shown to reduce anxiety in patients receiving radiation therapy, and it has helped ease nausea and vomiting resulting from high-dose chemotherapy.
By Cathy Wong | Medically reviewed by Richard N. Fogoros, MD
By: isaac|Uncategorized
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious Crouch goes Home to Jesus
Next PostNext You Asked: Is Listening to Music Good For Your Health?
Our Address
127/21 Saflo Link, Abelemkpe – Accra in the same building with Accra Pysiotherapy and Sports Injury Clinic Primary Tel.:+233(0)244279372 Secondary Tel.:+233(0)208238709 Secondary Tel. 2:+233(0)241132734 Email:info@harmoniouschoraleghana.org Web:www.harmoniouschoraleghana.org
HARMONIOUS CHORALE GHANA
Harmonious Chorale Ghana, is a multiple award winning non – denominational choir established in the capital Accra in 2005 as a quartet and later transforming into a full-fledged choir in October 2007. Through dedication and hard-work, Harmonious Chorale has carved for itself a niche and an identity which has provided mentoring opportunity for many choral groups in and outside Ghana.
© Copyright 2019 - Harmonious Chorale Ghana. Site Inspired by SeeIT Services [www.seeit.solutions]
Home
About Us
Our Events
Contact Us