Ross Walter Nutritionist and Naturopath health articles and blog - Ross Walter Nutritionist & Naturopath
PH: 0417 632 464
About
Contact
Treatments
Seminars
Programs
Articles
Resources
Members
Partners
Reviews
Media
Bookings
Zinc deficiency linked to autism
11/11/2018
0 Comments
Autism is a a very prevalent and complex disorder of which the incidences are growing at a very disturbing rate - in just 9 years the official incidences of diagnosed autism has TRIPLED to one in 36 children, and one in 14 children with developmental delays. This huge increase cannot be explained just because of genetics. The more likely causative factors are environmental - how we interact with our environment, such as from nutrient deficiencies, chemical and toxin and radiation exposure, stress, and lifestyle factors.
In a 2015 study, it found that a high percentage of people with Autism Spectrum Disorders were deficient in zinc, a mineral that is needed for many metabolic and neurological processes, including the development and health of the nervous system and production of hormones and neurotransmitters for good mental health. Hence a deficiency of zinc can cause hormone and neurotransmitter imbalances and dysfunction seen in autism. The study also reported that the zinc deficiency was often accompanied by a copper overload or copper toxicity, which can result in impaired social behaviour, and impaired language and communication issues, common in autism disorders.
Zinc is also needed for good immune system function, for good functioning of the senses, for good digestive system function, and many more uses. Digestive issues are very common in those with autism disorders. And with gut issues being linked to brain conditions, this can explain part of the common digestive issues seen in autism, or in zinc deficiency. Such conditions include chronic constipation or diarrhoea, indigestion, reflux, heartburn, pains, bloating and gas, as well as digestive issues like Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, leaky gut and irritable bowel disease.
The same study found that incidences of autism can increase from pregnant women who are deficient in zinc, and women who are pregnant and breastfeeding need a higher intake of zinc-rich food or supplements, or this can result in deficiencies in the mother and baby to cause neurological and digestive conditions in both.
Zinc isn't the only answer to explaining or treating autism disorders, but it is one of many factors which can greatly help in a holistic treatment plan for sufferers. Zinc deficiency is also an issue in many other mental health issues such as depression and anxiety and others. Zinc deficiency is an issue I see a lot in my clinical practice, mainly from a poor intake of zinc-rich foods, and the increasing popularity of vegetarian and vegan diets which are generally low in zinc. Stress also depletes zinc, so a high-stress environment can lead to a deficiency even if your intake is good.
Your zinc and copper levels can be tested, as can other nutritional minerals and toxic metals, which are also common in autism disorders. If you have other mental health symptoms or digestive symptoms (mentioned above), I can help with nutritional advice and supplementation if needed, to help reduce your symptoms and improve your health! The right form of zinc is crucial, as some are much better than others.
​​
0 Comments
Why should you avoid folic acid in pregnancy or conception
20/8/2018
0 Comments
Are you, or someone you know trying to get pregnant, or thinking of having children soon? Or have you been trying to get pregnant for a while and it's not being successful? Or have you had one or more miscarriages?
There are many possible factors which cause difficulties with getting pregnant or holding onto a pregnancy such as stress, nutrient deficiencies, toxins and chemical exposure, genetics, smoking and alcohol, inflammation and more.
These are two of the most common, but little known, causes of infertility:
1) Hormone imbalance in men and women, and
2) Genetic mutations in men and women.
These are the biggest causes of infertility I see in my clinic, but both are fairly easy to treat to get a successful result! Sadly, the medical approaches to infertility are very expensive, and they don't address the root causes of infertility. One very common and recommended medical "treatment" actually causes more heartache, distress, infertility and miscarriages. This is the advice that the woman trying to conceive should take a pregnancy multivitamin supplement which contains "folic acid".
Folic acid is not found in nature. It's not real. It's an artificially synthesized form of folate, or a fake and dangerous form of vitamin B9, which is found in plant foods. Folate comes from the word "foliage", hence leaves or leafy green vegetables, but also found in any plant-based food.
"Folic acid" is added to cheap retail brand supplements and pregnancy products, as well as to breads, and other refined grain products, cereals, processed foods, and packaged foods. It doesn't have the same effect in your body as the real folate!
But what is worse is that up to 40% of people may have a particular genetic mutation called MTHFR, which I have written about before here:
http://www.rosswalter.com.au/articles/folic-acid-vs-folate-are-they-the-same
When men and women with the MTHFR genetic mutation take supplements with folic acid in them, or eat lots of processed foods high in folic acid, they can develop toxicity from UMFA (un-metabolized folic acid) syndrome. Taking folic acid in supplements or foods when you have the MTHFR mutation causes ongoing infertility, and very sadly, recurrent miscarriages. But women trying to conceive and pregnant women are told to take supplements with folic acid! As per usual with many government or medical directives, this simply makes things worse.
A recent study (Servy et al., Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics, 2018) tested couples who had infertility issues for at least 4 years, where one or both partners had the MTHFR genetic mutation. Most had previously tried folic acid supplements, but they had a lot of poor results, including multiple miscarriages. The study instead supplemented the couples with a natural form of folate instead, for only 4 months.
No adverse effects were seen from this form of folate. But the results were amazing! 39% of the females conceived naturally, with most needed some additional treatment to achieve pregnancy, but only 6% didn't succeed. That's a 94% success rate after avoiding folic acid, but taking a natural folate supplement instead!
The study concluded that the natural folate supplement should be used for when one or both partners have the MTHFR mutation, and that the artificial folic acid must be avoided to prevent folic acid toxicity, immune dysfunction, and other adverse health effects such as cancer.
I highly recommend getting tested for MTHFR with a simple blood or saliva test, and taking a pregnancy supplement which does NOT have folic acid in it, but a natural form of folate instead. I can help with both the test and the natural folate supplement, along with investigating other possible causes of infertility.
If you are trying to conceive, or know someone who is, please share this article to them so they are informed and can have a successful outcome!
0 Comments
Folic acid vs. folate - are they the same?
1/2/2018
0 Comments
If you look at the ingredients list of many packaged food labels, such as breakfast cereals, wheat flour, all breads and bakery goods (except those produced and labelled as "organic"), yeast spreads (vegemite etc), fruit juice and other foods, and even multivitamin supplements, they contain "folic acid". This article will explain a little about what this misunderstood ingredient is and how it can affect your health.
"Folic acid" is an artificially synthesised form of folate or vitamin B9. Folate, however, is the natural form of this vitamin, found in "foliage" sources, ie plant foods, especially in green leafy vegetables, broccoli and similar vegetables, many fruits, legumes and lentils, avocado, nuts and seeds, ground vegetables like beets and carrots, and many other sources.
Folate is needed for DNA synthesis and cell growth, production of red blood cells, for good mental health, energy production and many other activities. A deficiency in folate can cause many health effects, including anaemia, mental health issues (depression), dental diseases, skin conditions, and more. One of the main deficiency conditions of concern is an increased risk of birth defects in a baby's brain and spine, such as spina bifida.
Sadly, the Australian Food Standards organisation (FSANZ) makes it mandatory that folic acid is added to all wheat cereals, flour and bakery goods, except "100% organic" products and breads made from other grains such as rye, rice and corn! At least FSANZ and the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (corporate watchdog) admits that products containing folic acid cannot claim that the product is "natural", as folic acid is NOT a natural substance!
In an attempt to prevent spina bifida birth defects, FSANZ decided to add folic acid to common staple food products - breads and cereals - and thus try to increase the daily intake of artificial "folate" in pregnant women. Why not just do an advertising campaign to get people to eat more vegies instead?!
Folic acid is not the same as folate - it is metabolised differently in the body, and thus has different effects, and like all artificial medications (which is what it is), it also causes a lot of unintended side effects.
Folic acid is readily absorbed into the body, often more so than for natural folate. However the natural folate is much more bioavailable (ie usable), but folic acid can actually block the effects of the natural folate, and over time this can lead to deficiency conditions mentioned above.
People who may have the MTHFR gene mutation (see my other recent article on this topic), will have huge issues with any foods containing folic acid. The MTHFR enzyme is needed to activate folate and folic acid, but people with this genetic mutation cannot effectively metabolise folic acid, and so levels of this artificial vitamin will rise to toxicity and cause major health conditions such as increased inflammation, oxidative damage, heart disease, and mental health disorders. Very sadly, I see a lot of female clients with infertility issues or recurrent miscarriages while on folic acid supplements for fertility and pregnancy. Folic acid in a female with the MTHFR gene mutation will CAUSE the recurrent miscarriages. This heartbreaking situation can simply be prevented by 1) getting a MTHFR test, and 2) avoiding folic acid supplements and foods, and 3) eating more folate-rich vegetables instead.
The decision of the authorities to force an artificial vitamin (effectively a "drug") onto most people in attempt to prevent a simple nutrient deficiency seems insane - it doesn't fix the cause of the problem, and actually creates MORE health problems! Recent research suggests that folic acid in cereals and bread or bakery products should not only be avoided by people with the MTHFR mutation, but EVERYONE, because of the negative effects it can have. Simply eat more plant based foods instead to get your daily requirement of natural folate!
If you have noticed that you feel worse after eating cereals, bread products, or supplements with folic acid, or if you are female and have had multiple miscarriages, you may have the MTHFR gene mutation. A simple blood test can be ordered to check for this, as well as advice for improving your diet to getting enough natural folate for a healthy pregnancy!
0 Comments
COPYRIGHT
All articles here are Copyright (c) to Ross Walter Nutritionist & Naturopath (2015-2019). You are welcome to share these articles in your personal or business marketing, in full and referencing this website.
If you wish to have specific health articles written for your business, please ask via email to ross@rosswalter.com.au
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
August 2017
July 2017
May 2017
March 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
June 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
Categories
All
5:2 Diet
Acidity
Acne
Acrylamide
Alcohol
Alkaline Food
Allergies
Aluminium
Alzheimer's
Antibacterial
Antibiotics
Anti Inflammatories
Anti-inflammatories
Anxiety
Arsenic
Artificial Sweeteners
Atherosclerosis
Autism
Autoimmune Conditions
Baby Powder
Baking Soda
Bipolar Disorder
Blending
Blood Glucose
Blood Sugar
Bowel Movement
Bowels
BPA Free Plastic
BPA-free Plastic
BPA Plastic
BPS Plastic
Burns
Cacao
Calcium
Calories
Cancer
Cannabis
Carb Adapted
Carbohydrates
Carcinogens
Causes
Celebrity
Cervical Cancer
Chemicals
Children's Health
Chocolate
Cholesterol
Chronic Disease
Codeine
Coeliac Disease
Coffee
Cold And Flu Prevention
Common Cold
Constipation
Contraception
Cooking
Cookware
Corporate Sponsorship
Cravings
Dairy
Dental Health
Depression
Detox
Diabetes
Dieting
Dietitian
Dietitians
Digestive System
Documentary Review
EAT Lancet Diet
EAT-Lancet Diet
EBV
Eczema
Eggs
E-health
Endocrine Disruptors
Endometriosis
Endorsements
Environmental Health
Epstein-Barr Virus
Essential Nutrients
Evidence Based
Exercise
Farming
Fast Food
Fasting
Fat Adapted
Fatigue
Fats
Female Health
Female Hormones
Fertility
Fibre
Fibroids
Film Review
Fish Oil
Fitness
Flu
Fluoride
Flu Vaccine
Folate
Folic Acid
Food Additives
Food Allergies
Food Containters
Food Guidelines
Food Industry
Food Ingredients
Food Intake
Food Intolerances
Food Labelling
Food Labels
Food Production
Food Pyramid
Food Sensitivities
Food Star Rating
Fracking
Fructose
Genetics
Glandular Fever
Glucose
Gluten
Gluten Free Food
Gluten-free Food
Glyphosate
GMO
Goals
Grains
Gut Bacteria
Gut-brain Connection
Gut Health
Hand Washing
Health Funds
Health Information
Health Insurance
Health Star Ratings
Healthy Fats
Heartburn
Heart Disease
Heavy Metals
High Blood Pressure
Hormonal Issues
Hormone Disrupting
Hormones
HPV
IBS
Immune System
Indigestion
Infections
Infertility
Inflammation
Influenza
Insomnia
Insulin
Irritable Bowel
Juicing
Ketogenic Diet
LCHF
Leaky Gut
Liver
Low Carb Diet
Low Fat Diets
Low GI
Lung Disease
Man Flu
Manuka Honey
Margarine
Marketing
Meal Replacements
Medications
Medicinal Cannabis
Melanoma
Melatonin
Men's Health
Mental Health
Mental Illness
Microbiome
Microwave Meals
Microwaves
Miscarriage
Moderation
Modern Diets
Motivation
MTHFR
My Health Record
Natural Therapies
Naturopathy
New Years Resolutions
NSAIDs
Nutrient Deficiencies
Nutrients
Nutrigenomics
Nutrition
Nutritional Medicine
Nutrition Guidelines
Nutritionist
Nutrition Research
Obesity
Oestrogen
Oil
Omega-3
Pain
Painkillers
Paleo
Pap Smears
Pathology Testing
PCOS
Personalised Consultations
Pet Foods
Pets
Pharmaceuticals
PH Of Food
Plastic
Plastic Bottles
PMDD
PMS
Polyunsaturated Fats
Poo
PPI
Preconception
Pregnancy
Primal
Privacy
Processed Foods
Psoriasis
Pyrrole Disorder
Red Meat
Red Wine
Reflux
Research
Resveratrol
Reviews
Rice
Root Causes
Roundup
Salt
Saturated Fat
Schizophrenia
SIBO
Skin
Skin Cancer
Skin Conditions
Sleep
Sore Throat
Sports
Sports Nutrition
Stevia
Stress
Sugar
Sunburn
Sunglasses
Sunlight
Sun Safe
Sunscreens
Talcum Powder
Thyroid
Tonsillitis
Tooth Decay
Toxicity
Toxins And Chemicals
Type 1 Diabetes
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcers
Vaccination
Vaccines
Vegan
Vegetables
Vitamin D
Water
Water Fluoridation
Weight Gain
Weight Loss
Wheat
Whole Grains
Winter
Womens Health
Would Healing
Xenoestrogens
Xeno-oestrogens
Zinc
RSS Feed
Proudly powered by Weebly