Minoxidil - Benefits & Side Effects - Hair Loss & Alopecia Treatment - Universal Hair Clinic Dublin
Hair Loss & Skin Treatments in Dublin
016793618
[email protected]
Home
Alopecia
Alopecia Areata
Alopecia Causes
Alopecia Symptoms
Alopecia Treatments
Alopecia Cure
Female Alopecia
Male Alopecia
Alopecia in Children
Traction Alopecia
Hair Loss Treatments
Hair Loss and Hair Disorders
Female Hair Loss Treatments
Male Pattern Baldness Treatments
Trichotillomania (Hair Pulling) Treatments
What is trichotillomania?
What effective treatments are there for trichotillomania?
How common is trichotillomania?
Why do people pull out their hair?
Scalp Conditions
Minoxidil Treatments
Electrotrichogenesis (ETG) Treatments
Skin & Beauty
What to Expect
Anti-Wrinkle Injections
Microdermabrasion
Semi-Permanent Make Up
Blog
About
Carol Johnson, a Certified Trichologist
Trichoscan
Universal Clinic in the Spotlight
What Our Clients Said
Prices
Hair & Scalp Prices
Skin & Body Price List
Semi-Permanent Make Up Price List
Products
Contact
Minoxidil Treatments
Home
Minoxidil Treatments
What is Minoxidil?
Minoxidil was first used in tablet form as a medicine to treat high blood pressure, but it was noticed that some patients being treated with Minoxidil experienced excessive hair growth (hypertrichosis) as a side-effect. Further research showed that by applying Minoxidil in solution form directly to the scalp, it could prove to be beneficial to those experiencing topical hair loss.
How Minoxidil Helps Reduce Hair Loss and Increase Hair Growth
Whilst minoxidil encourages hair growth and hair loss stabilisation, the exact molecular mechanism operating in the cells that result in hair growth from Minoxidil is not known. Some experts believe that minoxidil dilates the blood vessels around hair follicles, increasing the nutrient supply and encouraging increased hair growth, however, this is still an unproven theory, as vasodilator drugs other than Minoxidil do not appear to promote hair growth.
Another theory is that topical Minoxidil induces a significant increase in DNA synthesis in hair follicle cells. Minoxidil is a stable and inactive drug. When applied to the scalp and absorbed into the skin Minoxidil is converted to an active, unstable product called ‘Minoxidil Sulphite’. Our body produces a catalyst called sulfonyl transferase that converts the inactive Minoxidil into the unstable active Minoxidil Sulphite. Minoxidil sulphite activates potassium channels in cells and this is thought to lead to hair growth. Whilst there is no conclusive evidence as to why Minoxidil encourages hair growth, the fact is that it does, be it to varying degrees.
What is Medroxyprogesterone?
Medroxyprogesterone (MPG) can be found in our Minoxidil 4 and 5% solutions depending on the recommendations of the trichologist for each individual. MPG helps to prevent the hormone derivative ‘dihydrotestosterone’ from interfering with the hair follicles function. This compliments Minoxidil’s reaction with the follicles, and adds to the response that is achieved. When MPG is added to Minoxidil it becomes a prescription-only treatment but in many cases Minoxidil will be provided without MPG contained.
Getting the Best From Minoxidil
Minoxidil can help reduce hair loss and boost hair growth, the degree of success will often depend on the Minoxidil’s strength. The Minoxidil formulations that our Doctors reccommend vary from a mild 4% lotion to a stronger 5% Regain lotion, or an extra-strength 12.5% cream, which is a form of Minoxidil used to treat very stubborn patches of thinning hair and baldness, depending on what is recommended to the individual hair loss sufferer.
A Universal Clinic hair loss treatment course consists of more than just Minoxidil, if prescribed, we find that ‘treatment courses boosters’ are just as important. Find out about treatment course boosters and how a Universal Clinic hair loss treatment course ensures the highest likelihood of hair re-growth.
Side Effects
Like most other drugs there can be side effects from the use of Minoxidil. During the past ten years of treating tens of thousands of men and women at the Belgravia Centre in London estimated less than one in one hundred (1%) incidents of side effects from the use of Minoxidil. Side effects from Minoxidil ranged from mild facial hair growth, headaches, rashes and palpitations. All were mild and needed no medical treatment. They either diminished in a short time during use of Minoxidil, or shortly after stopping use of Minoxidil.
Contact Us Now!
Universal Hair Clinic
Phone: 016793618
Email: [email protected]
3 South Great Georges Street, Dublin 2
(entrance in Dame Lane)
What Our Clients Said
I would recommend them and they are v professional. *
Susan, Ireland
I still have my hair and I am 45 years old. I started losing it in my 20’s. *
Anthony, Ireland
My skin was left feeling lighter and fresher… *
Susan, Ireland
All at the clinic are so nice and helpful. *
Marie, Ireland
Very helpful. *
James, Dublin City
Highly recommended. *
Anthony, Ireland
I would wholeheartedly recommend this clinic. *
Liz, Ireland
Helped me through what could have been the most negative experience of my life. *
Jean, Dalkey
Consultation was very welcoming and informative. *
Annette, Ireland
A very professional friendly service with great results. *
Fiona, Galway
Hair & Beauty Clinic
Wherever you live and however bad your hair loss or scalp problem may seem, you can rely on the integrity and professionalism of Universal Hair & Scalp Clinic and the expertise we will provide you with.
*Results may vary from person to person*
Carol Johnson – International Affiliate (UK) of The Institute of Trichologists:
Hair & Beauty Treatments
Alopecia Treatments
Skin & Beauty Treatments
Prices
Our Products
Hair & Beauty Tips
Does Alopecia Go Away on Its Own?
April 24, 2019
Is Female Hair Loss Reversible?
March 31, 2019
Causes of thinning hair and what you can do about it
February 13, 2019
Contact us now!
Phone: +353 (0)1 6793618
Email: [email protected]
3 South Great Georges Street
Dublin 2 (entrance in Dame Lane)
Opening hours:
Tuesday-Thursday 10.00-19.00
Friday 10.00-18.00
Saturday 9.30-13.00
© 2019 Universal Hair Clinic Dublin. Privacy Policy
This site uses cookies: Find out more.
Okay, thanks