TGF-β1 Impairs Vitamin D-Induced and Constitutive Airway Epithelial Host Defense Mechanisms.
BioPortfolio
Biotech, Healthcare and Medical Resources
BioPortfolio
Menu
Loading
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology Track topics Track topics important to you
World Biotech and Healthcare News
Published Research
Market Reports
Channels
Clinical Trials
Drugs
Corporations
Advertisement
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology
Track topics on Twitter Track topics that are important to you
Printed From BioPortfolio.com
TGF-β1 Impairs Vitamin D-Induced and Constitutive Airway Epithelial Host Defense Mechanisms.
08:00 EDT 10th April 2019 | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » Nutrition » Research » TGF-β1 Impairs Vitamin D-Induced and Constitutive Airway Epithelial Host Defense Mechanisms.
Summary of "TGF-β1 Impairs Vitamin D-Induced and Constitutive Airway Epithelial Host Defense Mechanisms."
Airway epithelium is an important site for local vitamin D (VD) metabolism; this can be negatively affected by inflammatory mediators. VD is an important regulator of respiratory host defense, for example, by increasing the expression of hCAP18/LL-37. TGF-β1 is increased in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and known to decrease the expression of constitutive host defense mediators such as secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) and polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (pIgR). VD has been shown to affect TGF-β1-signaling by inhibiting TGF-β1-induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. However, interactions between VD and TGF-β1, relevant for the understanding host defense in COPD, are incompletely understood. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the combined effects of VD and TGF-β1 on airway epithelial cell host defense mechanisms. Exposure to TGF-β1 reduced both baseline and VD-induced expression of hCAP18/LL-37, partly by increasing the expression of the VD-degrading enzyme CYP24A1. TGF-β1 alone decreased the number of secretory club and goblet cells and reduced the expression of constitutive host defense mediators SLPI, s/lPLUNC and pIgR, effects that were not modulated by VD. These results suggest that TGF-β1 may decrease the respiratory host defense both directly by reducing the expression of host defense mediators, and indirectly by affecting VD-mediated effects such as expression of hCAP18/LL-37.
Affiliation
Journal Details
This article was published in the following journal.
Name: Journal of innate immunity
ISSN: 1662-8128
Pages: 1-16
Links
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30970352
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1159/000497415
PubMed Articles [16743 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
Regional Differences in Airway Epithelial Cells Reveal Tradeoff between Defense against Oxidative Stress and Defense against Rhinovirus.
Rhinovirus is a leading cause of acute respiratory infections and asthma attacks, but infections are also frequently cleared from the nasal mucosa without causing symptoms. We sought to better underst...
Interferon-λ3 promotes epithelial defense and barrier function against Cryptosporidium parvum infection.
The epithelial response is critical for intestinal defense against Cryptosporidium but is poorly understood. To uncover the host strategy for defense against Cryptosporidium, we examined the transcrip...
Vitamin D alleviates airway remodeling in asthma by down-regulating the activity of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.
Vitamin D exerts a protective role in asthma; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying the vitamin D-attenuated asthma airway remodeling are yet to be elucidated. In this study, Sprague-Dawley (SD...
ITGB4 deficiency induces senescence of airway epithelial cells through p53 activation.
Aging is characterized by a progressive loss of physiological integrity, leading to impaired organ function and, ultimately, increased vulnerability to death. Many complex diseases are related to agin...
Binding of Pneumocystis carinii to the lung epithelial cell receptor HSPA5 (GRP78).
The importance of lung macrophages in Pneumocystis-host interaction is well known, but little is known about the initial binding/colonization of the airway epithelium. Our prior studies have documente...
Clinical Trials [7359 Associated Clinical Trials listed on BioPortfolio]
In-vivo Effects of E-cigarette Aerosol on Innate Lung Host Defense
While e-cigs are commonly represented as safer alternatives to tobacco cigarettes, little is known regarding the health effects of their short- or long-term use. The responses and the e-ci...
Regeneration of Bronchial Epithelium During Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Airway epithelium integrity is essential to maintain its role of mechanical and functional barrier. Recurrent epithelial injuries require a complex mechanism of repair to restore its integ...
The Effect of Vitamin D Supplements on Vitamin D Status, Cardiometabolic Health and Immune Defense in Danish Children
The main purpose of this study is to investigate whether and in which doses vitamin D intake is needed in order to maintain an adequate vitamin D status in 4-8 year-old Danish children dur...
Vitamin C & Exercise Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB)
The purpose of this research is to assess the association between diet and pulmonary function during standardized EIB testing. Determine the effect of Vitamin C supplementation on airway i...
A Randomized Phase III Study of Vitamins B6 and B12 to Prevent Chemotherapy-Induced Neuropathy in Cancer Patients
Primary Objective:To determine the efficacy of the combination of vitamin B6 and B12 in preventing chemotherapy induced neuropathy
Medical and Biotech [MESH] Definitions
Asthma, Exercise-induced
Asthma attacks following a period of exercise. Usually the induced attack is short-lived and regresses spontaneously. The magnitude of postexertional airway obstruction is strongly influenced by the environment in which exercise is performed (i.e. inhalation of cold air during physical exertion markedly augments the severity of the airway obstruction; conversely, warm humid air blunts or abolishes it).
Vitamin K
A lipid cofactor that is required for normal blood clotting. Several forms of vitamin K have been identified: VITAMIN K 1 (phytomenadione) derived from plants, VITAMIN K 2 (menaquinone) from bacteria, and synthetic naphthoquinone provitamins, VITAMIN K 3 (menadione). Vitamin K 3 provitamins, after being alkylated in vivo, exhibit the antifibrinolytic activity of vitamin K. Green leafy vegetables, liver, cheese, butter, and egg yolk are good sources of vitamin K.
Asthma
A form of bronchial disorder with three distinct components: airway hyper-responsiveness (RESPIRATORY HYPERSENSITIVITY), airway INFLAMMATION, and intermittent AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION. It is characterized by spasmodic contraction of airway smooth muscle, WHEEZING, and dyspnea (DYSPNEA, PAROXYSMAL).
Vitamin D Deficiency
A nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of VITAMIN D in the diet, insufficient production of vitamin D in the skin, inadequate absorption of vitamin D from the diet, or abnormal conversion of vitamin D to its bioactive metabolites. It is manifested clinically as RICKETS in children and OSTEOMALACIA in adults. (From Cecil Textbook of Medicine, 19th ed, p1406)
Vitamin K Epoxide Reductases
OXIDOREDUCTASES which mediate vitamin K metabolism by converting inactive vitamin K 2,3-epoxide to active vitamin K.
Advertisement
Quick Links
Advanced Search | Login | Subscribe | RSS
Quick Search
Advertisement
Advertisement
Relevant Topics
Nutrition
Within medicine, nutrition (the study of food and the effect of its components on the body) has many different roles. Appropriate nutrition can help prevent certain diseases, or treat others. In critically ill patients, artificial feeding by tubes need t...
Respiratory
Asthma COPD Cystic Fibrosis Pneumonia Pulmonary Medicine Respiratory Respiratory tract infections (RTIs) are any infection of the sinuses, throat, airways or lungs. They're usually caused by viruses, but they can also ...
COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) is used for a number of conditions including chronic bronchitis and emphysema, which all lead to the airways in the lungs becoming damaged and thus narrower, making inhalation and exhalation harder...
PubMed Database Quicklinks
Search PubMed Journal Article Database
Latest PubMed Articles
PubMed Journal List
Popular PubMed Articles
Recent Journal Article Searches
Searches Linking to this Article
BioPortfolio Limited
About Us
Contact Us
Social Media
Twitter (200+ Accounts)
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Publish Content
Publish
Publish Your Press Release
Advertise
Agreements
Agreements
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy
Tools
MyBioPortfolio
RSS
Help
FAQs
Sitemaps
XML Sitemap
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here.
The information provided by BioPortfolio.com is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The BioPortfolio site is sponsored BioPortfolio Limited with offices at Stafford House, 10 Prince of Wales Road, Dorchester, DT1 1PW, England. If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of “Fair Use” and legitimately infringes on your or your client's copyright we may be contacted concerning copyright matters here: Contact BioPortfolio.
All rights reserved. All other trademarks recognized. Copyright © 1997-2019 BioPortfolio Limited. Site developed by Alacrify Ltd.