Top 10 Foods to Cure Anemia | How to cure Anemia - theorangepetals
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
Health
Beauty
Health Benefits
Remedies
Life
Jokes
Love
Quotes
Relationship
Short story
Parenting
Baby
Kids
Teens
Write for us
Contributors Corner
Disclaimer
theorangepetals
a blog for everyday life
Top 10 Foods to Cure Anemia | How to cure Anemia
July 13, 2015 by admin Leave a Comment
Top foods to cure Anemia
Anemia is a condition when your blood lacks red blood cells or hemoglobin than their normal count.. If you have few red blood cells, or your hemoglobin is low, the cells in your body will not get enough oxygen.
Anemia is common in pregnant women, women with excessive bleeding during menstruation, breast feeding women, women who have undergone abortions, growing children and old age people due to medical conditions.
Mostly anemia can be cured with diet changes and iron supplements, we see here, the home remedies for Anemia.
Here are the top 10 foods to cure Anemia
Dates
Dates are rich in iron, vitamin B complex and vitamin C and are a good source of dietary fiber and antioxidants. They improve the red blood cells in the body. Dates can eaten fresh or soaked overnight in a cup of milk and taken in the morning.
Spinach / Green leafy vegetables
Flickr image by sciondriver
Spinach is a excellent source of iron and folic acid and it can overcome anemia when taken regularly. Do include these spinach or other green leaves like fenugreek leaves, amaranth leaves in your daily diets. You can make smoothies using these leaves, add honey to it and drink, else you can add them in curries, rotis etc.
Dried Peaches, Prunes and raisins
The dried fruits like peaches, prunes and raisins has more iron content compared when they are taken fresh. These dried fruits can be taken as it is or try adding them in your oatmeal, or cereals or in baked goods so as to increase your iron and fiber intake.
Honey
Honey is an natural medicine for iron deficiency. Honey is rich in iron, manganese and copper and eating a tsp of honey everyday increases the haemoglobin content in the blood.
Flickr image by Thien Gretchen
Pomegranate
Pomegranate is rick in iron, calcium and magnesium. It is again one of the natural remedy to treat anemia. You can eat this fruit for more benefit or make the pomegranate juice or pomegranate milkshake and drink in the morning.
Blackstrap molasses
Flickr image by Artizone
Blackstrap molasses, or simply blackstrap, is the dark, viscous molasses remaining after maximum extraction of sugar from raw sugar cane. Unlike refined sugars, it contains significant amounts of vitamin B6 and minerals, including calcium, magnesium, iron, and manganese one tablespoon provides up to 20% of the recommended daily value of each of those nutrients.
Figs
Figs which is another great source of iron, can be eaten as fresh or dried. The daily intake of figs, enhances your body iron content.
Legumes
Legumes, like soya beans and chickpeas are high in iron content and are excellent source of important minerals like copper, proteins etc. These can be added in everyday meal to increase the haemoglobin of blood.
Parsley
Flickr image by Tonal
Parsley, a popular herb which is used in culinary world, is very high in iron and folic acid. 1 tbsp of this dried parsley can meet 10% of your body’s daily requirement of iron. So try to include this in your food, as far as possible.
Black Sesame Seeds
Black Sesame seeds are another excellent source of Iron to treat anemia. You can also use the white sesame seeds. You can make stuffings in dumblings (pooranam in modak or kozhukattai in Tamil) and have it as your breakfast.
Source:
http://www.webmd.com/a-to-z-guides/understanding-anemia-basics
Filed Under: Health Tagged With: 10 foods to cure Anemia, 10 tips to cure anemia, anemia, health care, how to cure anemia, how to fight anemia
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
Primary Sidebar
Search the site ...
Recent Posts
How Your Sleep Affects Your Skincare
How to Protect Kids Online Privacy
Coconut Oil and its Scientifically Proved Benefits
15 Foods To Naturally Increase Your Brain Power
Top Foods that Clean your Teeth and Fight with Bacteria
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Copyright © 2019 · Magazine Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in