10 Natural Remedies for Migraines
Newsletter
Content created by Healthline and sponsored by our partners.​ ​ Learn​ ​more
Get Ahead of Migraines
10 Natural Ways to Reduce Migraine Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA on April 24, 2017 — Written by Annette McDermott
Share on Pinterest
Migraines aren’t typical headaches. If you experience them, you know you may experience pounding pain, nausea, and sensitivity to light and sound. When a migraine strikes, you’ll do almost anything to make it go away.
Natural remedies are a drug-free way to reduce migraine symptoms. These at-home treatments may help prevent migraines, or at least help reduce their severity and duration.
Note: Severe migraines may require treatment with prescription or over-the-counter (OTC) medication. Talk to your doctor about a treatment plan that works for you.
1. Avoid hot dogs
Diet plays a vital role in preventing migraines. Many foods and beverages are known migraine triggers, such as:
foods with nitrates including hot dogs, deli meats, bacon, and sausage
chocolate
cheese that contains the naturally-occurring compound tyramine, such as blue, feta, cheddar, Parmesan, and Swiss
alcohol, especially red wine
foods that contain monosodium glutamate (MSG), a flavor enhancer
foods that are very cold such as ice cream or iced drinks
processed foods
pickled foods
beans
dried fruits
cultured dairy products such as buttermilk, sour cream, and yogurt
A small amount of caffeine may ease migraine pain in some people. Caffeine is also in some migraine medications. But, too much caffeine may cause a migraine. It may also lead to a severe caffeine withdrawal headache.
To figure out which foods and beverages trigger your migraines, keep a daily food diary. Record everything you eat and note how you feel afterward.
2. Apply lavender oil
Inhaling lavender essential oil may ease migraine pain. According to 2012 research, people who inhaled lavender oil during a migraine attack for 15 minutes experienced faster relief than those who inhaled a placebo. Lavender oil may be inhaled directly or applied diluted to the temples.
3. Try acupressure
Share on Pinterest
Acupressure is the practice of applying pressure with the fingers and hands to specific points on the body to relieve pain and other symptoms. According to a , acupressure is a credible alternative therapy for people in pain from chronic headaches and other conditions. A separate study found acupressure may help relieve migraine-associated nausea.
4. Look for feverfew
Feverfew is a flowering herb that looks like a daisy. It’s a folk remedy for migraines. According to a , however, there’s not enough evidence that feverfew prevents migraines. Still, many people claim it helps their migraine symptoms without side effects.
5. Apply peppermint oil
The menthol in peppermint oil may stop a migraine from coming on, according to a . The study found that applying a menthol solution to the forehead and temples was more effective than placebo for migraine-associated pain, nausea, and light sensitivity.
6. Go for ginger
Share on Pinterest
Ginger is known to ease nausea caused by many conditions, including migraines. It may also have other migraine benefits. According to , ginger powder decreased migraine severity and duration as well as the prescription drug sumatriptan, and with fewer side effects.
7. Sign up for yoga
Yoga uses breathing, meditation, and body postures to promote health and well-being. shows yoga may relieve the frequency, duration, and intensity of migraines. It’s thought to improve anxiety, release tension in migraine-trigger areas, and improve vascular health.
Although researchers conclude it’s too soon to recommend yoga as a primary treatment for migraines, they believe yoga supports overall health and may be beneficial as a complementary therapy.
8. Try biofeedback
Biofeedback is a relaxation method. It teaches you to control autonomic reactions to stress. Biofeedback may be helpful for migraines triggered by physical reactions to stress such as muscle tensing.
9. Add magnesium to your diet
Magnesium deficiency is linked to headaches and migraines. Studies show magnesium oxide supplementation helps prevent migraines with aura. It may also prevent menstrual-related migraines.
You can get magnesium from foods that include:
almonds
sesame seeds
sunflower seeds
Brazil nuts
cashews
peanut butter
oatmeal
eggs
milk
10. Book a massage
A weekly massage may reduce migraine frequency and improve sleep quality, according to a . The research suggests massage improves perceived stress and coping skills. It also helps decrease heart rate, anxiety, and cortisol levels.
The takeaway
If you get migraines, you know the symptoms can be challenging to cope with. You might miss work or not be able to participate in activities you love. Try the above remedies and find some relief.
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA on April 24, 2017 — Written by Annette McDermott
More in Get Ahead of Migraines
5 Complementary Therapies for Chronic Migraine That Work for Me
My Strangest Migraine Triggers
Life with an Invisible Illness: What I've Learned from Living with Migraine
View all
READ THIS NEXT
9 Useful Hacks for Managing a Migraine Attack at Work
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Experiencing a migraine at work can greatly impact your concentration and performance. These tips can help you prepare for migraine and ensure that…
READ MORE
When Migraine Becomes Chronic: What to Ask Your Doctor
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Chronic migraine means you experience severe headaches for 15 or more days per month. If your migraines are happening more often and interfering with…
READ MORE
Migraine and Weather Changes: What's the Link?
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Migraine triggers vary from person to person. Yet many people with migraine say changes in the weather cause their headaches. This article examines…
READ MORE
Getting Relief from Migraines: Acute and Preventive Treatments
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
A migraine is a type of headache that causes throbbing pain, often on one side of the head. The pain can be so severe that it becomes debilitating…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 119909 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582