FACT CHECK: Should You Use Liquid Soap to Remove Ticks?
Support Snopes
Submit a Topic
What's New
Hot 50
Fact Checks
News
Videos
Archive
About Us
Randomizer
Support Us
Fact Check
Old Wives' Tales
Should You Use Liquid Soap to Remove Ticks?
Swabbing liquid soap on ticks may sometimes help remove them, but it isn't a recommended, effective method for tick removal.
Snopes Staff
Published 3 July 2006
Misinformation is a real threat.Snopes.com needs your help.
Learn How
Stay Informed
The Daily Debunker brings you the top stories on Snopes.com.
Accept our Terms & Privacy Policy
Subscribe
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
Claim
Swabbing ticks with liquid soap is a recommended and effective method for removing them.
Rating
Mixture
About this rating
What's True
Swabbing liquid soap on ticks may sometimes help remove them.
What's False
Using liquid soap to remove ticks is not a effective method of tick removal recommended by experts.
Origin
In addition to their being repulsive-looking bugs that survive by latching onto warm-blooded victims to suck blood from them, there is another reason to regard ticks with horror: they can deliver a deadly payload of disease to those they are making a meal of. These arachnids feed by burrowing their heads into skin, a method that introduces their body fluids into their victims. If those fluids are disease-laden, those microbes will be passed to the ones being dined upon. However, it generally takes at least 12 to 24 hours of feeding before an infected tick can spread disease to its host, so speedy removal of these parasites is therefore key to avoiding tick-borne illness, including Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, and Ehrlichia.
Household lore is replete with tick removal suggestions that involve covering or coating the embedded arachnid with a substance it will find objectionable. Other long-lived suggestions for removing ticks include touching a lit match or hot needle to the tick’s rear, swabbing the tick with nail polish or petroleum jelly, and tickling the tick’s underside in an effort to persuade it to release its bite:
A School Nurse has written the info below — good enough to share — And it really works!!
“I had a pediatrician tell me what she believes is the best way to remove a tick. This is great, because it works in those places where it’s some times difficult to get to with tweezers: between toes, in the middle of a head full of dark hair, etc.
Apply a glob of liquid soap to a cotton ball. Cover the tick with the soap-soaked cotton ball and swab it for a few seconds (15-20), the tick will come out on it’s own and be stuck to the cotton ball when you lift it away.
This technique has worked every time I’ve used it (and that was frequently), and it’s much less traumatic for the patient and easier for me.
Unless someone is allergic to soap, I can’t see that this would be damaging in any way. I even had my doctor’s wife call me for advice because she had one stuck to her back and she couldn’t reach it with tweezers. She used this method and immediately called me back to say, ‘It worked!'”
Although these home remedies are effective in some cases, however, those in the know about tick removal warn against them. Countermeasures of such nature don’t always work to encourage ticks to detach from skin promptly (if at all), and even if such measures do seemingly aid the process of removing the critters, they may also make matters worse by stimulating the creatures to release additional saliva or regurgitate their gut contents, acts that increase the chance of their transmitting pathogens to their hosts. A 2006 journal article review of published literature on tick removal methods reported that:
One study compared several different techniques for removing ticks. Application of petroleum jelly, fingernail polish, 70% isopropyl alcohol, or a hot kitchen match failed to induce detachment of adult American dog ticks.
Experimental evidence suggests that chemical irritants are ineffective at persuading ticks to detach, and risk triggering injection of salivary fluids and possible transmission of disease-causing microbes. In addition, suffocating ticks by smothering them with petroleum jelly is an ineffective method of killing them because they have such a low respiratory rate (only requiring 3-15 breaths per hour) that by the time they die, there may have been sufficient time for pathogens to be transmitted.
The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) likewise advises readers to “Avoid folklore remedies such as “painting” the tick with nail polish or petroleum jelly, or using heat to make the tick detach from the skin. Your goal is to remove the tick as quickly as possible — not wait for it to detach.”
Similarly, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cautions:
If a tick is removed within 24 hours, the chances of it transmitting Lyme disease or other infections are much less. Use fine-point tweezers to grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible. Pull gently. Avoid squeezing the body of the tick. Clean the site of the bite, your hands and the tweezers with disinfectant. You may want to wear protective gloves.
You also may want to place the tick in a small container, like a pill container, and bring it to your vet for identification. Never use a burned match, petroleum jelly, or nail polish to try to remove ticks. These methods are ineffective.
A list of “DO NOTS” in a Medline Plus article about tick removal similarly warned:
Do NOT try to burn the tick with a match or other hot object.
Do NOT twist the tick when pulling it out.
Do NOT try to kill, smother, or lubricate the tick with oil, alcohol, vaseline, or similar material.
The recommended procedure for removing ticks is:
Grasp the tick close to its head or mouth with tweezers. Do not use your bare fingers. If needed, use a tissue or paper towel.
Pull it straight out with a slow and steady motion. Avoid squeezing or crushing the tick. Be careful not to leave the head embedded in the skin.
Clean the area thoroughly with soap and water. Also wash your hands thoroughly.
Save the tick in a jar and watch carefully for the next week or two for signs of Lyme disease.
If all parts of the tick cannot be removed, get medical help. Bring the tick in the jar to your doctor’s appointment.
To reduce your chances of becoming a tick’s dinner:
Avoid tick-prone areas whenever possible.
When in areas where ticks may be present, wear clothing that covers the arms and legs, with cuffs fastened and pants tucked into boots and socks.
Use a tick repellent that contains DEET and reapply it every 1-2 hours for maximum protection.
After any outdoor excursion into areas where ticks are commonly found, adults should check themselves and their children. Your four-legged friends should be checked for ticks too, because dogs and cats can also be felled by the diseases spread by these blood-sucking creatures.
Published 3 July 2006
By
Snopes Staff
Sources
Fite, Amanda. “Once Bitten; Summer Pests Pack More Than an Itch.”
Tulsa World. 25 July 2001.
The Washington Post. “Tick Bites.”
23 July 2002 (p. F2).
Latest Fact Checks View all
Did Pat Robertson Say the Notre Dame Fire Was the Result of ‘Hell Bubbling over with Homosexuals’?
18 April 2019 Pat Robertson definitely has a history of controversial statements.
Did Donald Trump Say ‘Mein Kampf’ Had a ‘Profound Effect’ on Him?
17 April 2019 The same internet meme quoted Trump as saying he has 'tremendous respect' for Adolf Hitler.
Is This Photograph of Notre Dame Burning with the Eiffel Tower Directly in the Background Real?
17 April 2019 Some have termed this an "impossible" photograph due to the apparent proximity of the famed tourist sites.
Did Nostradamus Predict the ‘Descent of Man’ After the Notre Dame Fire?
17 April 2019 A statement can only qualify as a "prediction" if it exists prior to the event it foretells.
Is this Santorini Holidays Vacation Giveaway in Greece Legit?
16 April 2019 If a free vacation offer seems too good to be true, it probably is.
View all
Misinformation is a real threat.Snopes.com needs your help.
Learn How
Featured Video View all
Did Nostradamus Predict the ‘Descent of Man’ After the Notre Dame Fire?
Read More
Latest Reporting View all
Different Disaster, Same Theme: Hoaxes and Misinformation Spread Online after Notre Dame Fire
16 April 2019 Time after time, a major news event produces a big mess to mop up on social media.
President Trump Tweets Misrepresented Approval Numbers from Fox
11 April 2019 President Trump’s overall unfavorable rating has remained steady at 55 percent since he announced his candidacy in 2015.
Was Mr. Rogers Bisexual?
10 April 2019 Remarks the late children's television show host reportedly made in casual conversation with a friend prompted the posthumous celebration of Mr. Rogers as a 'bisexual icon.'
Conspiracy Theory About Holistic Doctor Deaths Resurfaces After Nipsey Hussle Murder
4 April 2019 The late hip-hop musician and community activist was making a documentary about holistic healer Dr. Sebi.
Indiana Authorities Address Social Media Rumors Surrounding the Death of Taemon Blair
1 April 2019 The 21-year-old from Huntersville, North Carolina, was found hanged in his own truck in Fort Wayne, Indiana, on 14 March.
View all
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
FAQ
Submit a Topic
Sections
What's New
Hot 50
Fact Checks
News
Randomizer
Company
About Snopes
Support Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Coming SoonNEW
Membership
Store
Discourse
On The Issues
© 1995 - 2019 by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Your search did not yield any results. Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic.
One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific. Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms.
If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our Submission Form to send it to us. We can't write about it if we don't know about it!
<# } #>
Support Snopes
Submit a Topic
What's New
Hot 50
Fact Checks
News
Videos
Archive
About Us
Randomizer
Close