Head Ache | Naproxen Sodium
Home
Content
RSS
Log in
Naproxen Sodium
Search for:
Home
Naproxen Sodium
Blog
Contact
Privacy Policy
Archive for the ‘Head Ache’ category
Usage of Naproxen for Headaches Prevention
December 15th, 2012
While many people know NSAIDs as medications that come in handy in pain relief, many might not know that one of this group of drugs, Naproxen for headaches has been in use for some time now and specifically for migraines and other headaches. These popular drugs are always being used by those suffering from migraines, mostly with moderate or mild ones.
Also, Naproxen has over time been recommended to women who might be suffering from menstrual related migraines. Those who get migraine headaches while at the height of their own menstrual cycle can use Naproxen on a monthly basis by starting a couple of months prior to the onset of menstruation to the end just after a number of days when the period has started. The reason why Naproxen comes in handy as a result of being effective in dealing with migraines is because the results are always positive once it has been used. It is also highly used as a very abortive type of treatment for headaches, meaning that the drug helps in bringing the much needed relied on current headaches and migraines for a number of symptoms.
Naproxen for headaches just like other headache prophylactic treatments could take around three or so months prior to reducing the huge number of attacks. For those using the treatment, the period might run up to around six months where the dosage of the medicine is then reduced in a gradual fashion. Since Naproxen acts a bit fast, it has been used occasionally to the treatment of migraine aura that normally does not last a longer period of time.
In a number of studies, Naproxen for headaches has been found to be effective, lessening the pain in the head while shortening the period of the unwanted discomfort. What Naproxen does is attack the symptoms of the migraine, lightheadedness, nausea and light sensitivity on a number of patients. Research has also depicted that as much as a number of patients ends up getting some relief from vomiting and nausea, a good number using different types of NSAIDs end up with some really worse symptoms as a result of the side effects they occasion into the stomach, such as stomach inflammation, indigestion, ulcers and stomach bleeding.
Those suffering from migraines sometimes require some options of getting the medication in a number of formulations since there are such vomiting and nausea symptoms that ends up making it really difficult to digest and swallow medications. There are other extra side effects that follow Naproxen, whether it is being used for headaches or to alleviate any kind of pain. Some of the side effects that come with this drug include itching, gas, tinnitus or ringing within the ears, hearing issues, cold symptoms, tingling or burning in the legs or arms, diarrhea or constipation, dizziness, rash, problems with sleeping, drowsiness, lightheadedness, headache, excessive thirst and mouth sores.
The first thing you need to do once you begin to experience such side effects is seeking some instant medical attention and refraining from the use of Naproxen until that time you have been able to consult a doctor.
Comments Off on Usage of Naproxen for Headaches Prevention »
Posted in Head Ache, Naproxen
Tags: Naproxen for headaches
Accessing Naproxen for Headaches
September 3rd, 2012
In most cases, the initial headache and migraine drugs doctors recommend are pain relievers. A good number of these medications are found across the counter and mostly accessed even without showing a prescription from a doctor. Headache drugs in most cases need a prescription. As you take the drugs for a headache, avoid taking those products containing a lot of caffeine in higher doses. Always remember that while using Naproxen for headaches any type of medication that has barbiturates or codeine (narcotics) must be used with a lot of caution, perhaps sparingly.
In case symptomatic relief drugs have been put into use for around two times each week, a doctor must be consulted for preventive headache prescription. Excessive use of any type of symptomatic drugs can easily bring about a lot of headaches or even lead to intense headache symptoms. Always remember when it comes to headaches and migraines, naproxen is at the head of the pack and makes sure the needed tranquility is gained in a very short period of time.
Naproxen comes in handy in the treatment of sharp migraines, hormone related headaches and headaches caused by tension. This is an over the counter medication that anyone can access online even without a doctor’s prescription meaning that if you want to end throbbing pain you can use it. The only problem is over usage of the medication without prior consulting a medical practitioner. The symptoms of over-usage are very serious and could even lead to the perforation of the intestines including the stomach.
Naproxen works through the mechanisms of hormones reduction that might have been causing pain and inflammation at some part of the body. The drug is highly used in the reduction of stiffness, inflammation and pain that a lot of conditions might have caused, a part from being considered as Naproxen for headaches. These conditions include menstruation cramps, gout, osteoarthritis, bursitis and rheumatoid arthritis.
To lessen the onslaught of stomach upsets, it is important to use naproxen together with an antacid, milk or food. Avoid chewing the naproxen form of extended-release by swallowing them as they are. If you have no idea what formulations of extended-release are all about, it is important to enquire from your pharmacist what they are.
Always be on the lookout for vomit with blood, tarry black stools or stool with blood. Such symptoms can alert you that naproxen usage was either wrongly done or a too higher dosage was used, indicating some damage to the gastrointestinal tract has been done. Also, those who are used to using a lot of alcoholic drinks everyday should know that naproxen can increase stomach bleeding risks. Always avoid standing or basking for a long time in the sunlight since naproxen could increase one’s sensitivity to sunlight. Going for a sunscreen is advised including wearing clothes offering protection from the sun’s exposure.
After taking the medication, it is important to be cautious if one is engaging in hazardous activities, driving or operating machinery and in case a dizziness haze engulfs you, avoid the activities as much as possible.
Comments Off on Accessing Naproxen for Headaches »
Posted in Head Ache, Naproxen
Tags: is naproxen good for headaches Naproxen for headaches
Naproxen Sodium 550 mg dosage
April 28th, 2012
Naproxen sodium 550 mg is used to treat pains or aches in the body and several conditions which include arthritis among others. It is important to see a doctor before start using Naproxen sodium since there are certain aspects that may affect the human body if you take Naproxen sodium which is one of the drugs in the NSAID group of drugs. Some of the conditions that should be considered while taking Naproxen include other medications that a person is taking, other medical conditions that a person may have and any other medical condition that a person is treating.
It is always important to consult a doctor when adjusting dosages and this is to determine the benefits and effects. Since Naproxen sodium 550 mg is taken to treat various conditions, doctors recommend different dosages for each of these conditions. People who take Naproxen for treating acute pain or painful menstrual periods they will have to be over 18 years and a dosage of 220 mg to 550 mg two times daily. In this case the maximum dosage on a daily basis is 1100mg. For those people who are using over the counter Naproxen such as Aleve they should follow the instructions that are always written in the label.
The recommended over the counter dose should not be exceeded and it is also important not to use the Naproxen dosage for more than 10 days unless told otherwise by the doctor. People who use Naproxen sodium 550 mg for treating arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and osteoarthritis are supposed to take a dosage of 275 mg or 550 mg two times a day. However, this dosage may be increased to 1650 mg daily by the doctor after several weeks if the person is still in pain. If this also does not relieve the pain the patient will have to consider other pain relief options.
People who take Naproxen sodium for treating gout they are supposed to take a dosage that starts at 825 mg which should be followed by 275 mg dosage for every 8 hours until the gout attack subsides. There are however several considerations that a person should take when using Naproxen sodium 550 mg and any other dosage. One of them is it is supposed to be taken with a water glass and after the person has eaten. Taking the drug with milk will help in preventing stomach upsets. It is always important to take the lowest effective dose of Naproxen as well as using the least amount of time as this decreases the risk of getting serious side effects.
Comments Off on Naproxen Sodium 550 mg dosage »
Posted in Head Ache, Naproxen Sodium, Naproxen Sodium 550 mg
Tags: Naproxen Sodium naproxen sodium 200 mg Naproxen Sodium 550 mg sodium naproxen
How to avoid Naproxen Sodium Side Effects
April 25th, 2012
Naproxen sodium is a drug used to treat pain and inflammation that belongs to the group of drugs known as NSAID. Some of the conditions that Naproxen treats include gout, arthritis, bursitis, tendinitis, ankylosing spondylitis and menstrual cycle cramping among others. Naproxen can be brought straight from the counter or they can be prescribed. Naproxen sodium also has some side effects that everyone needs to be aware of before they start using it. One of the major Naproxen sodium side effects is difficulty in breathing. People who use this drug may also experience tightness in their chest.
This can be identified by wheezing when a person exhales. In case this happens the person is supposed to consult a doctor immediately. Causing edema or swelling of the body is also one of Naproxen sodium side effects and this occurs in several specific areas including the legs and feet. It is also necessary to consult your doctor immediately you notice any swelling on your legs while using Naproxen. Indigestion sensation can also be caused by taking Naproxen sodium although this does not usually indicate serious health problems.
This can be identified by the pressure one feels in the lower abdomen as well as burning in one’s chest. The doctor should also be consulted in case this happens also. Stomach problems may also be brought about by using Naproxen sodium. Pain or discomfort in the stomach will be experienced because this drug may irritate the stomach lining and this may lead to more belching. In case of these Naproxen sodium side effects the patient is also supposed to see a doctor. Headaches may also be experienced while using Naproxen sodium and you are supposed seek out a doctor since the drug is supposed to relieve headaches.
Experiencing dizziness is also one of the Naproxen sodium side effects especially in the first few times of usage. This dizziness will normally ease as you continue using it but if it continues for a long period the doctor is supposed to be consulted. However the best way of avoiding side effects that are associated with Naproxen sodium, a person is supposed to take minimal amount of the drug. It is also advisable to take Naproxen with food to reduce the side effects. If you are planning to start using Naproxen you will have to see a doctor first to ensure that you are not in a condition where the drug will cause you more harm than good.
Comments Off on How to avoid Naproxen Sodium Side Effects »
Posted in Dental Pain, Head Ache, Naproxen Sodium, Naproxen Sodium Side Effects
Tags: naproxen dosage Naproxen Sodium Naproxen Sodium Side Effects side effects
Things to Consider before using Naproxen Sodium
April 14th, 2012
Naproxen sodium is an over the counter drug that is used as a pain and minor aches reliever as well as for reducing fever. This drug is part of a group of fever reducers and pain relievers that are known as NSAIDs or in full nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs. Most oral fever reducers and pain relievers only have naproxen sodium as the sole ingredient. Naproxen sodium is also available in drugs that treat additional symptoms apart from fever and pain and this will include common colds and other symptoms that are associated with menstruation.
Before you start taking naproxen sodium you need to be aware of several things. One of the main things to keep in mind is that NSAIDs medicines have been found to increase the risk of life threatening circulation or heart problems and this includes strokes and heart attacks. This however is mostly because of longer usage of a particular medicine. This is why it is risky to use Naproxen just before or immediately after heart bypass surgery which is mostly referred to as coronary artery bypass graft in short CABG.
Long usage of NSAIDs has also been found to increase the risk of someone getting serious stomach or intestine effects and this will include perforation or bleeding. In some cases these cases are known to be fatal. These serious gastrointestinal side effects have a greater risk in adults than in kids. People who hade a history of allergic reactions to aspirin or any other NSAID medicine should also not use Naproxen sodium. There are also other conditions that will need a person to have an adjusted dose or go through special test in order to be able to use Naproxen. These conditions include asthma, liver or kidney diseases, heart diseases, high blood pressure, congestive heart failure, stomach ulcers or bleeding, nose polyps and people who smoke.
It is also very important to get advice from a doctor before starting to use Naproxen especially for those who are pregnant or planning to get pregnant. This is important because in some cases it has been found that if it is used in the last three months of a pregnancy it may lead to birth defects. Mothers who are breast feeding should also not use Naproxen sodium as it can pass into the breast milk and harm a baby. Children below two years should also not be given Naproxen without the advice of a doctor.
Comments Off on Things to Consider before using Naproxen Sodium »
Posted in Dental Pain, Head Ache, Naproxen Sodium, Naproxen Sodium 550 mg
Tags: Naproxen Sodium naproxen sodium 220 mg Naproxen Sodium 550 mg sodium naproxen
Recent Posts
Usage of Naproxen for Headaches Prevention
Understanding Naproxen NSAID
The Nature and Effects of the Naproxen 375 Mg
Some Important Facts on Naproxen and Asthma
Drug Usage and Naproxen Heart Risk
Easy Access to Naproxen 500mg for Various Treatments
Accessing Naproxen for Headaches
Getting the Right Naproxen Dosage for Better Drug Management
Naproxen Heart Risk Factors and Drug Usage
Understanding Exactly what is Naproxen in Various Treatments
Categories
Dental Pain
Head Ache
Naproxen
Naproxen Sodium
Naproxen Sodium 220 mg
Naproxen Sodium 550 mg
Naproxen Sodium Dosage
Naproxen Sodium Side Effects
Tags
375 mg 500mg naproxen asthma dosage naproxen heart risk is naproxen good for headaches Naproxen Naproxen 375 mg Naproxen 500mg Naproxen and asthma naproxen dosage Naproxen for headaches Naproxen heart risk naproxen maximum dosage Naproxen NSAID Naproxen Sodium naproxen sodium 200 mg naproxen sodium 220 mg naproxen sodium 220 mg dosage naproxen sodium 220 mg side effects naproxen sodium 500 mg naproxen sodium 550 Naproxen Sodium 550 mg naproxen sodium 550 mg side effects naproxen sodium 550 mg uses naproxen sodium 550mg Naproxen Sodium Dosage naproxen sodium maximum dosage Naproxen Sodium Overdose Naproxen Sodium Side Effects NSAID NSAIDs side effects side effects of naproxen sodium sodium naproxen sodium naproxen dosage what is Naproxen what is naproxen 500mg
Blogroll
Naproxen
About
Its all about Naproxen Sodium.
You are currently browsing the archives for the Head Ache category.
Categories
Dental Pain (2)
Head Ache (5)
Naproxen (10)
Naproxen Sodium (10)
Naproxen Sodium 220 mg (1)
Naproxen Sodium 550 mg (4)
Naproxen Sodium Dosage (2)
Naproxen Sodium Side Effects (3)
Back to Top
Valid XHTML 1.0 Transitional | Valid CSS 3