Anemia of Chronic Disease - Anemia of Inflammation | ARUPConsult Lab Test Selection
Search form
Search
Browse A-Z
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Home
Categories
Algorithms
Topics
Test Fact Sheets
FAQs
Subscribe for Updates
Feedback
[X]
Topic Name
Message *
If ARUP Consult does not answer your test selection and interpretation questions, or if you’d like to suggest ways to improve content or usability, please leave a message for the ARUP clinical content team. Please do not include any patient-specific or personal health information (PHI) in your message.
Email Address
An email address is not required, but providing one allows the ARUP Consult clinical content team to respond directly. ARUP will only use your email address to respond to your feedback. See the ARUP privacy policy for more information regarding email use.
Leave this field blank
Cite this page
Anemia of Chronic Disease - Anemia of Inflammation. ARUP Consult©. Retrieved April 17, 2019, from: https://arupconsult.com/content/anemia-chronic-disease-anemia-inflammation
You are here
› All Topics › Anemia of Chronic Disease - Anemia of Inflammation
Anemia of Chronic Disease - Anemia of Inflammation
Anemia of chronic disease (ACD), also known as anemia of inflammation (AI), is a functional anemia of iron-restricted erythropoiesis related to chronic diseases, such as infections, autoimmune diseases, cancer, and end-organ failure. ACD/AI is the second most common form of anemia after iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and the most common form of anemia in hospitalized or critically ill patients. Testing for ACD/AI includes standard blood parameter measurements, a peripheral blood smear, iron studies, testing to exclude other possible diagnoses, and in some cases, bone marrow biopsy. ACD/AI testing should be interpreted in the appropriate clinical context. Treatment for ACD/AI entails treatment of the underlying disease or disorder; however, this is often not feasible. Iron therapy and erythropoiesis-stimulating agents may be used to alleviate anemia and thereby improve patient quality of life.
Tabs Content
Clinical Overview
Quick Answers
Which laboratory tests can be used to distinguish between anemia of chronic disease/anemia of inflammation and iron deficiency anemia?
Iron indices are complicated in the face of inflammation, and may be further confounded by concomitant anemia of chronic disease/anemia of inflammation (ACD/AI) and iron deficiency anemia (IDA). In both ACD/AI and IDA, insufficient functional iron is available for erythropoiesis. In IDA, mean corpuscular volume (MCV) is often (although not always) reduced, whereas MCV is usually normal in ACD/AI. Similarly, cells are often hypochromic in IDA, whereas they are frequently normochromic in ACD/AI. Total iron binding capacity (TIBC) and soluble transferrin receptor levels are increased in IDA, but normal or decreased in ACD/AI. Both serum iron and transferrin saturation (Tsat) are decreased in both IDA and ACD/AI. See Laboratory Testing to Distinguish Between ACD/AI and IDA table, below.
What are special testing considerations for patients with inflammatory conditions that affect iron status?
Anemia of chronic disease/anemia of inflammation (ACD/AI) is a common complication in many conditions that affect iron status, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). IBD leads to problems in iron and vitamin absorption, and thus may result in ACD/AI with concomitant iron deficiency anemia and megaloblastic anemia. Normocytic anemia is also frequently observed in CKD. Anemia in CKD results primarily from decreased erythropoiesis, and may be exacerbated by hemolysis, iron deficiency, hemorrhage, medication toxicity, chronic infections, and other factors ; patients with CKD may therefore demonstrate simultaneous ACD/AI and iron deficiency. Regular anemia workups are recommended for both patient populations. For more information on laboratory testing for anemia in patients with IBD or CKD, see the Iron Deficiency Anemia topic.
What differentiates testing in anemia of critical illness from testing in anemia of chronic disease/anemia of inflammation?
Anemia of critical illness can be severe and develops rapidly, often within a few hours or days, resulting in a limited time frame for testing. Although further study is required, this rapid onset of anemia may result from reduced red blood cell production and survival, as well as iatrogenic factors such as blood loss due to phlebotomy and medication. Anemia of critical illness is treated via transfusion; to determine which patients require transfusion, a hemoglobin threshold of 70 g/L is recommended. In patients with some conditions (eg, sepsis, traumatic brain injury, and cardiovascular disease), a higher hemoglobin threshold to trigger transfusion may be appropriate.
What is the laboratory testing strategy for anemia of aging?
Anemia is a risk factor for morbidity, mortality, and other unfavorable outcomes in patients ≥65 years of age. The prevalence of anemia in older adults increases with age, exceeding 20% in patients ≥85 years of age. Given the potential for adverse outcomes, the evaluation of anemia in elderly adults is especially important if surgery or other procedures that may result in blood loss are planned. Furthermore, anemia in older adults is often associated with an underlying chronic condition, and iron indices may not be typical of younger adults. Some experts recommend assessing iron status via serum ferritin or transferrin saturation (Tsat) tests following a finding of low hemoglobin. In patients who are iron deficient, consider evaluation for gastrointestinal malignancy and oral iron supplementation. In patients with replete iron stores, testing for chronic kidney disease (CKD) and vitamin deficiency is recommended, as well as assessment for other chronic or inflammatory conditions.
Iron Deficiency Anemia and Anemia of Chronic Disease/Anemia of Inflammation Testing Algorithm
Iron Deficiency Anemia and Anemia of Chronic Disease/Anemia of Inflammation Testing Algorithm
Indications for Testing
Patients with hemoglobin (Hgb) levels at least 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and sex (see Anemia) and a chronic or inflammatory condition should be evaluated for ACD/AI. Conditions in which ACD/AI is common include chronic infection, autoimmune disease, cancer, acute infection, chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, pulmonary arterial hypertension, obesity, chronic liver disease, and certain forms of heart disease.
Laboratory Testing
Once anemia is confirmed, red blood cell (RBC) counts and morphology from a CBC can be used to further classify anemia. In general, ACD/AI presents as a normocytic anemia (cells have a normal mean corpuscular volume [MCV]), but may be microcytic in up to 25% of cases. A reticulocyte count is also recommended to assess bone marrow response to anemia and rule out conditions in which this response is elevated, such as hemolytic anemia. Patients with anemia, a normal or low MCV, and a low corrected reticulocyte count or reticulocyte production index should be evaluated for ACD/AI.
Initial Evaluation
Iron Studies
Serum ferritin and total iron binding capacity (TIBC) are first-line tests to evaluate iron stores. Serum iron indices are complicated in ACD/AI: iron is sequestered, leading to ample stores, but is not made available for erythropoiesis. Soluble transferrin receptor testing may also be useful. IDA and ACD/AI may occur together, complicating diagnosis.
Laboratory Testing to Distinguish Between ACD/AI and IDA
Parameter
ACD/AI
IDA
Serum iron Low to normal Low
TIBC Low High
Tsat Low Very low (<10%)
Serum ferritin High Low
Serum transferrin receptor Normal to slightly high High
MCV Normal Low
MCHC Normal Low
RDW Normal to slightly high High
Bone marrow iron High Low
Adapted from Kjeldsberg, 2010
MCHC, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration; RDW, red blood cell distribution width; Tsat, transferrin saturation
Ancillary Testing
Erythrocyte protoporphyrin is increased in ACD/AI, but not in conditions of abnormal heme synthesis, and thus may be useful in distinguishing ACD/AI from diseases such as thalassemia minor. Serum and urine hepcidin levels may be increased in ACD/AI. Although ongoing research in hepcidin testing is promising, there is no standardized or approved hepcidin assay, and this testing is not currently recommended for diagnosis of ACD/AI.
Monitoring
Monitoring in ACD/AI depends on the treatment administered. Treatment of the underlying cause of inflammation often resolves anemia in patients with ACD/AI, which can be confirmed with a CBC (including measurements of Hgb and hematocrit as well as serum ferritin and Tsat.
ARUP Lab Tests
Initial Testing
Detect anemia; calculate MCV, MCHC, RDW
CBC with Platelet Count and Automated Differential 0040003
Method: Automated Cell Count/Differential
Assess bone marrow response to anemia
Reticulocytes, Percent and Number 0040022
Method: Flow Cytometry
Evaluate iron stores
Ferritin 0070065
Method: Quantitative Chemiluminescent Immunoassay
Calculate Tsat
Iron and Iron Binding Capacity 0020420
Method: Quantitative Spectrophotometry
Testing to Differentiate Between ACD/AI and IDA
Determine transferrin receptor levels
Soluble Transferrin Receptor 0070283
Method: Quantitative Immunoturbidimetry
Ancillary Testing
Distinguish between ACD/AI and conditions of abnormal heme synthesis
Erythrocyte Porphyrin (EP), Whole Blood 0020610
Method: Fluorometry
Medical Experts
Pearson, Lauren N., DO, MPH, Medical Director, University of Utah Health Hospital Clinical Laboratory; Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, University of Utah
References
Gangat N, Wolanskyj AP. Anemia of chronic disease. Semin Hematol. 2013; 50(3): 232-8. PubMed
Kjeldsberg, CR (editor). Practical Diagnosis of Hematologic Disorders, 5th ed. American Society for Clinical Pathology, 2010.
Weiss G, Ganz T, Goodnough LT. Anemia of inflammation. Blood. 2019; 133(1): 40-50. PubMed
Cullis JO. Diagnosis and management of anaemia of chronic disease: current status. Br J Haematol. 2011; 154(3): 289-300. PubMed
Fraenkel PG. Understanding anemia of chronic disease. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2015; 2015: 14-8. PubMed
Thomas W, Hinchliffe RF, Briggs C, Macdougall IC, Littlewood T, Cavill I, British Committee for Standards in Haematology. Guideline for the laboratory diagnosis of functional iron deficiency. Br J Haematol. 2013; 161(5): 639-48. PubMed
Docherty AB, Turgeon AF, Walsh TS. Best practice in critical care: anaemia in acute and critical illness. Transfus Med. 2018; 28(2): 181-189. PubMed
Goodnough LT, Schrier SL. Evaluation and management of anemia in the elderly. Am J Hematol. 2014; 89(1): 88-96. PubMed
Girelli D, Nemeth E, Swinkels DW. Hepcidin in the diagnosis of iron disorders. Blood. 2016; 127(23): 2809-13. PubMed
Additional Resources
Bross MH, Soch K, Smith-Knuppel T. Anemia in older persons. Am Fam Physician. 2010; 82(5): 480-7. PubMed
Bryan LJ, Zakai NA. Why is my patient anemic? Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2012; 26(2): 205-30, vii. PubMed
Cappellini D, Motta I. Anemia in Clinical Practice-Definition and Classification: Does Hemoglobin Change With Aging? Semin Hematol. 2015; 52(4): 261-9. PubMed
Choosing Wisely. An initiative of the ABIM Foundation. [Accessed: Mar 2019]
Dignass AU, Gasche C, Bettenworth D, Birgegård G, Danese S, Gisbert JP, Gomollon F, Iqbal T, Katsanos K, Koutroubakis I, Magro F, Savoye G, Stein J, Vavricka S, European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation [ECCO]. European consensus on the diagnosis and management of iron deficiency and anaemia in inflammatory bowel diseases. J Crohns Colitis. 2015; 9(3): 211-22. PubMed
Fraenkel PG. Anemia of inflammation: a review. Med Clin North Am. 2017; 101(2): 285-296. PubMed
Goddard AF, James MW, McIntyre AS, Scott BB, British society of Gastroenterology. Guidelines for the management of iron deficiency anaemia. Gut. 2011; 60(10): 1309-16. PubMed
Hussein M, Haddad RY. Approach to anemia. Dis Mon. 2010; 56(8): 449-55. PubMed
Janus J, Moerschel SK. Evaluation of anemia in children. Am Fam Physician. 2010; 81(12): 1462-71. PubMed
Mikhail A, Brown C, Williams JA, Mathrani V, Shrivastava R, Evans J, Isaac H, Bhandari S. Renal association clinical practice guideline on Anaemia of Chronic Kidney Disease. BMC Nephrol. 2017; 18(1): 345. PubMed
Nemeth E, Ganz T. Anemia of inflammation. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2014; 28(4): 671-81, vi. PubMed
Van Vranken M. Evaluation of microcytosis. Am Fam Physician. 2010; 82(9): 1117-22. PubMed
Vieth JT, Lane DR. Anemia. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 2014; 32(3): 613-28. PubMed
Resources from the ARUP Institute for Clinical and Experimental Pathology®
Gilreath JA, Stenehjem DD, Rodgers GM. Total dose iron dextran infusion in cancer patients: is it SaFe2+? J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2012; 10(5): 669-76. PubMed
Price E, Artz AS, Barnhart H, Sapp S, Chelune G, Ershler WB, Walston JD, Gordeuk VR, Berger NA, Reuben D, Prchal J, Rao SV, Roy CN, Supiano MA, Schrier SL, Cohen HJ. A prospective randomized wait list control trial of intravenous iron sucrose in older adults with unexplained anemia and serum ferritin 20-200 ng/mL. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2014; 53(4): 221-30. PubMed
Testing Algorithms
Iron Deficiency Anemia and Anemia of Chronic Disease/Anemia of Inflammation Testing Algorithm
Read more about Iron Deficiency Anemia and Anemia of Chronic Disease/Anemia of Inflammation Testing Algorithm
Educational Videos
Diagnostic Approach to Anemia (75 min)
Related Topics
Anemia
Anemia Testing Algorithm
Hemolytic Anemias Testing Algorithm
Iron Deficiency Anemia and Anemia of Chronic Disease/Anemia of Inflammation Testing Algorithm
Megaloblastic Anemia Testing Algorithm
Microcytic Anemia Testing Algorithm
Hemolytic Anemias
Hemolytic Anemias Testing Algorithm
Iron Deficiency Anemia
Iron Deficiency Anemia and Anemia of Chronic Disease/Anemia of Inflammation Testing Algorithm
Microcytic Anemia Testing Algorithm
Megaloblastic Anemia
Megaloblastic Anemia Testing Algorithm
Thalassemias
Hemolytic Anemias Testing Algorithm
Content Review:
March 2019
Last Update: March 2019
ARUP Laboratories
500 Chipeta Way
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
(800) 522-2787
Email
Disclaimer and Privacy
ARUP Websites
ARUP Laboratories
ARUP Consult ®
ARUP Scientific Resource
ARUP Blood Services
ARUP Consult
Contact Us
About ARUP Consult ®
Editorial Policy
Editorial Board
Subscribe
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information. Verify here.
© 2019 ARUP Laboratories. All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer and Privacy Policy