February 2017 - Foodzu
Menu
HOME
WHY FOODZU?
TESTIMONIALS
FAQS
CONTACT US
STORE
Month: February 2017
The Mind Blowing Health Benefits of Pecan Nuts
Foodzu Benefits, Green Living, Health Foods, Wellness February 28, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 478 views
Pecan nuts belongs to Juglandaceae Family many people argue that it not nut, but a drupe with single stone nutmeat surrounded by a husk. The seeds of the pecan are edible, with a battery or rich flavour. They can be used in cooking, particularly in sweet desserts. or eaten fresh. Pecan trees can live and bear edible seeds for more than 3 hundred years and America stands first in the production of pecan nuts.
Nutritional value
Pecans provide 100% of the Daily Value of fat and 691 Calories. Pecans nuts are a rich source of magnesium, phosphorus, dietary fiber, thiamin, zinc and manganese. Pecans are also a good source of vitamins B, protein and iron. Their fat content consists mainly of polyunsaturated fatty acid, linoleic acid and monounsaturated fatty acids, mainly oleic acid. What are the health benefits of pecans? are common question asked by many people, some of the health benefits are listed below.
Health Benefits of Pecan Nuts
Blood Pressure
A research conducted by the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition states that consuming pecan nuts can lower the blood pressure and cholesterol levels. The report also states that after eating pecan nuts LDL cholesterol is lowered by 30% within 2 hours and regular consumption can reduce overall cholesterol levels.
Fights Cancer
Health benefits of pecan nuts include prevention of cancer. Studies show Gamma tocopherol and vitamin E is important antioxidant present in it which prevent different types of cancer like lung cancer, blood cancer, skin cancer etc.
Helps with Weight Loss
Consuming nuts increases metabolism and enhances satiety, study states that a diet comprising a pecan nut helps in weight loss. The nuts are also important sources of several important vitamins such, vitamin B-6, pantothenic acid, as riboflavin, thiamin, folates and niacin, which increase the metabolism rate.
Anti-Inflammatory Benefits
Pecans are rich source of magnesium. American Journal have proved that increased take of magnesium can reduce inflammation in arterial walls, which in turn reduces the risk of Alzheimer, arthritis disease and cardiovascular disease.
Skin Benefits and Hair Benefits of Pecans
Pecan nuts are an excellent source of phosphorous, zinc, vitamin-A, vitamin-E and folate, which play a vital role in maintaining and preventing skin and hair related problem.
When it comes to any nuts, organic is best. Organic nuts will not be coated in harmful herbicides and pesticides. So look for an organic pecans it will available in the online store or a nearby grocery store. pecan nuts are available in different form like Pecan Nuts Kernels, Pecan Chocolate etc., grab your favourite and enjoy its health benefits.
Enjoy the Amazing Health of Benefits Brazil Nuts
Foodzu Benefits, Fitness, Health Foods, Wellness February 27, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 472 views
Brazil Nuts are one of the most liked nuts all around the world. Brazil Nut tree is generally found in Amazon rainforests and these trees grow very slowly, taking around ten to thirty years before producing nuts. The nuts contain yellowish nutmeat covered with thin brown skin that is enclosed roughly-textured shell. These nuts have a soft, sweet, buttery flavor and are included in many great dishes, desserts, ice cream etc.
Brazil nuts nutrition facts
Brazil nuts are high in vitamin E, Magnesium, thiamine, fiber, protein, copper, selenium, and in addition it is considered the best selenium food source in the world. These nuts are heavily cherished and highly protected and for their nutritional content and delicious flavor and, as well as the oil extracted from it is used in many beauty products.
Amazing Health of Benefits Brazil Nuts
Anticancer
Brazil nuts contain high ellagic acid and selenium levels, which helps to fight against cancer. Ellagic acid is anticancer and antimutagenic in nature and selenium can prevent and reduce incidence of cancer. Many study quotes that having toxic levels of mercury in the body can cause cancer. Selenium present in Brazil nuts can help reduce toxic mercury levels, which can reduce the chance of cancer.
Heart Health Booster
Hearth is the most important organ in the human body. The potassium, selenium, magnesium and calcium present in these nuts are helpful in maintaining healthy Heart. Brazil nuts are high in unsaturated fat, which increase good cholesterol levels and protects against stroke and heart attack.
Thyroid Control
The thyroid gland helps to control heart rate, body temperature and metabolism. The thyroid gland has more selenium content than other organ in the body. Selenium is an important component of the that are necessary to use and create thyroid hormones. including Brazil nuts in diet help in maintaining the proper working thyroid.
Builds Immune System
Health of Benefits Brazil Nuts includes maintaining healthy immune system. Brazil nuts contain Selenium in is beneficial for building the immune system and helps heal the wounds. Just 4 to 5 Brazil nuts a day can satisfy the entire selenium requirement.
Brazil nuts weight loss
The fiber content is high in Brazil nuts. consuming 1 to 2 Brazil nuts a day can expedite weight loss and protects the body from many types of cancer.
Brazil nuts benefits are enormous and name as the No. 1 food source on the planet. How many Brazil nuts a day? is the common questions raised in everybody’s mind. 1 to 2 Brazil nuts per day provides a sufficient supplement of selenium for the body. So include Brazil nuts in the diet and protect your body from diseases.
The Mind Blowing Health Benefits of Dried Figs or Anjeer
Foodzu Benefits, General, Health Foods, Wellness February 23, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 550 views
Fig commonly known as anjeer in India belongs to species know as Ficus carica. Fig tree has been cultivated since ancient times and grows wild in sunny and dry areas and are Native to the western Asia and Middle East. Figs Fruit is dense in nutrient and vary in color like copper, yellow-green, or purple and are reasonable fruit, hence it is dried to increase the shelf life and enjoy the benefits all throughout the year.
Nutrient value of Fig
Fig are rich sources of Saturated fat, Monounsaturated fat, Polyunsaturated fat, Cholesterol, Potassium, Sodium, Potassium, Total Carbohydrate, Dietary fiber, Protein, Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Calcium, Iron, Vitamin D, Vitamin B-6, Vitamin B-12, Magnesium etc. What are the health benefits of figs? are the common questions being asked, some of the health benefits are listed below.
Amazing Health Benefits of Dried Figs or Anjeer
Prevents hypertension
One of the best Health Benefits of Dried Figs are they reduce hypertension. Sodium is the main cause of hypertension and Figs contains potassium and sodium, which helps in maintaining the sodium-potassium level in the body.
Prevents heart disease
Figs contain high levels of antioxidants. Antioxidant helps to eliminate free radicals that cause heart attack, damage to blood vessels, coronary heart disease etc.. Researchers have quoted that including figs in the diet reduces the level triglycerides that trigger heart disease.
For Stronger Bones
Figs are a vital source of calcium that is essential for maintaining bone density. Additionally, sodium and potassium in figs prevent the calcium loss caused by the high salt content in diet, and also prevents the bones from thinning at a rapid rate.
Benefits of Fig for skin
The high water content in fig helps to remove the waste and toxins from the body, preventing acne and pimples. Omega 3 fatty acids in figs help to treat skin inflammations, boils,pimples, abscess, etc. Application of boiled fig moisturizes the skin and gives a healthy glowing skin.
Dried figs for weight loss
Figs are an important source of dietary fiber, with low calories. Foods with High fiber content keeps stomach full, reduces frequent hungry. Natural laxative, helps eliminate the waste from the stomach and lower the toxin levels, which promotes weight loss.
Figs are available different form like Anjeer Pizza Sweets, Anjeer Premium, Anjeer Bold, Fig Biscotti Cookies, Fils Mustard With Figs etc in market or in online store. Choose any one and obtain immense health benefits out of it.
Enjoy the Amazing Health Benefits of Chyawanprash Every Day
Foodzu Benefits February 22, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 709 views
Chyawanprash is a comprehensive herbal tonic traditionally used for healthy living and was founded in India 1000 of years ago by the legendary sage well know as Chaywan who sought to create a remedy using herbs which make people look younger and stronger, that’s how Chyawanprash was created and named after him. 24 countries have conducted medical research on Chyawanprash which proves its health benefits are boundless.
Chyawanprash and is made from to an ancient Ayurvedic honoured recipe that uses amla, spices, honey and unique herbs. According to ancient Indian philosophy in Ayurveda states that Chyawanprash is categorized under Rasayana (Rasa means food juice and Ayana means ‘circulation) which aims to maintain maintaining proper functioning of the cells, vigor, vitality, youthfulness, and delay the ageing process.
Amazing Health Benefits of Chyawanprash
Aids In Blood purification
People consuming junk and unhygienic food frequently get excess harmful toxins in the body. These toxins, when stored in the body, lead to several ailments and complications. They affect the sleep, digestion and natural blood purification process in the body. Including chyawanprash in the diet helps in purification of blood and terminates excess toxic elements from the body.
Sharpens Memory
In this busy world people forget things at times, even at a young age. Eating chyawanprash strengthens the body and herbs present in it aid in sharpening memory and boosts brain functions. Apart from adults, kids can also consume chyawanprash which helps them in boosting concentration and focus.
Chyawanprash benefits for hair and skin
Chyawanprash contains a number of herbs including saffron, honey, sesame oil and Emile that has vitamin C in vital amounts. These herbs, when taken internally, improve skin complexion and helps the skin to retain youthfulness and radiance. Arjun, jatamansi, neem and Emile present in it promotes hair growth and reduces hair fall.
Healthy respiratory system
A healthy respiratory system is very important in maintaining healthy functioning of the lungs. consuming Chyawanprash boost the lung health and it is an ideal herbal remedy for those who are suffering from chronic bronchitis and asthma.
Improves immune system
The combination of over 40 herbs with Amla or gooseberry as a main ingredient which contains 30 times more vitamins C than fresh oranges makes chyawanprash a powerful immunity boosting tonic and also protects the body from fungal infections, viral and bacterial.
Different brands of chyawanprash like Baidyanath Chyawanprash, Zandu Sona Chandi Chyawanprash, Patanjali Special Chyawanprash, Dabur Chyawanprash Awaleha, Phalada Pure & Sure Organic Chyawanprash are available in the market and in online store, choose the one, include it in the diet and obtain the immense health benefits out of it.
How to take chyawanprash
Both kids and adults can take chyawanprash daily. Ideally, adults can take one table spoonful twice a day with a glass of milk and it can taken in an empty stomach as well.
Enjoy The Amazing Health Benefits of Dry Grapes Every Day
Foodzu Benefits, Fitness, Green Living, Wellness February 21, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 618 views
Dry Grapes, commonly know as raisins are one of the most widely used dry fruits in the world. Dry grapes are obtained by removing large amounts of the original water content of fresh grapes through sun drying or through specialized Dehydrators or dryers. Today, dried fruit consumption is universal. Nearly half of the dried fruits sold are dry grapes.
Dry Grapes Nutrition Facts
Unlike fresh grapes, dry grapes are indeed being concentrated and rich sources of energy, electrolytes, minerals, vitamins, calories, fiber, poly-phenol antioxidants, xanthines, Latin, carotenes, vitamin C, and folic acid.
Amazing Health Benefits of Dry Grapes
Diabetes
Dry grapes, lower the insulin level in diabetes patients. It promotes sugar absorption and helps to reduce the health problem in both types of diabetes. This helps to control ghrelin and leptin, which helps you feel either full or hungry. Hence it is helpful for preventing overheating and maintaining a healthy diet.
Acidosis
Acidosis is an increased toxicity in the cases of the respiratory system or the blood, which is very harmful for the body. This is a main cause of many health problems like tumors, renal calculi, heart diseases, boil, damage to the internal organs, hair loss, gout, disease, etc. Dry grapes contain magnesium and potassium are best antacids which helps to neutralize the acids and check acidosis.
Dry grapes for weight gain
Dry grapes contain glucose and fructose energy and are the best healthy way of gaining weight. They are mostly consumed by bodybuilders or athletes to gain weight or boost of energy, without accumulating unhealthy fats. It contains many proteins, selenium, amino acids, phosphorus, vitamins, nutrients, and minerals. This helps in improving body immunity.
Cancer Prevention
Polyphenolic antioxidants well know as catechins is rich in dry grapes. This helps to remove free radicals, Free radicals lead to cancer cell growth in the body. Consumption of dry grapes prevent cancer or slow down its process and increase the level of powerful antioxidants.
Alzheimer’s disease
Resveratrol content present in grapes can reduce the amyloidal-beta peptide levels in Alzheimer’s disease patients. Grapes can also delay neurodegenerative diseases and enhance the health of the brain.
Dry grapes are used in desserts, cookies, biscuits, chocolate, healthy tonics, food, snacks throughout the world. The tiny dry grapes as bunch of health benefits! So, the next time you feel like having something tasty, try dry grape product or dry grapes. It is not only tasty, but they also benefit body with all the goodness of natural dry grapes.
Amazing Benefits of Hazelnuts and Facts beyond their Delicacy
Foodzu Beauty, Benefits February 20, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 614 views
Hazelnut is the nut derived from species Corylus avellana and it is roughly oval to spherical, ranging about 15 to 25 mm diameter. The kernel of the seed is edible and used as a paste or raw or roasted. The seed has a thin, dark brown skin, which are usually removed before cooking. Turkey is the world’s largest producer of hazelnuts.
Nutrient value
Hazelnuts are a rich source of total fat. The fat components are mainly as polyunsaturated fat mainly as linoleic acid monounsaturated fat as oleic acid. Particularly, it as high amount of manganese, magnesium, thiamin, vitamin E, phosphorus, dietary fiber, protein, calcium, potassium, zinc and vitamin K.
Amazing Health Benefits of Nutritious Hazelnuts
Bone Health
Hazelnuts are rich source of mineral and manganese required for the strength and growth of bones. Magnesium in hazelnuts can be very effective for building the strength and structure of the skeletal system. It fights against osteoporosis and increases bone mineral density.
Nervous System
Vitamin B6 is rich in Hazelnuts, which is required for the creation of myelin, it is a coating of the nerve that increases the efficiency of electrical impulses, speed and enables the nervous system to operate properly. Hazelnuts are also helpful in the synthesis of neurotransmitters like epinephrine, serotonin and melatonin.
Brain booster
Vitamin E present in hazelnuts supports healthy brain activity and acts as a great inflammation buster. Including it in the diet provides an entire dose of manganese, which supports a healthy brain. A recent research by Neuroscience showed that hazelnuts aid memory, and can lower anxiety level.
Hazelnuts Skin Benefits
Hazel nuts, oil plays an important role in keeping the skin healthy. It also shields the skin from skin cancer induced by UVB/UVA rays. The antioxidants, along with the flavanoids stimulates the regeneration of skin cells and eliminate the dead cells, rendering a younger looking and visibly healthier skin.
Hazelnut benefits hair
Hazelnuts are used as a main ingredient in various coloring agents as it renders an adorable, enchanting brown hue to the strands and also makes sure that the color lasts longer. The application of hazelnut oil helps to strengthen the hair from the roots, prevents dandruff and split ends.
The popularity of hazelnuts seems to be outpoured, especially they’re used in combination like hazelnut chocolate, Cookies, biscuit, chocolates pouring, hazelnut-based bread spreads. It is popular as a flavoring agent in the coffee and hazelnut oil had been popular in a cooking medium and in cosmetics. Hazelnuts are packed with countless nutrients, include it in the daily diet and get amazing health benefits of it.
Troll into the Immense Benefits of Most Nutritious Nutty Food- Pista
Foodzu Benefits, General February 17, 2017 0 Comment 744 views
Pista/pistachios are one of the oldest nuts that were commonly consumed in the human history. They are native to Asia, particularly in Iraq, Iran, and Syria. A pista tree takes about ten to twelve years to produce the first crop. The fruit has a large seed in the center and the nuts are not a seasonal, there are available all throughout the year.
How nutritious are pistachios?
Pista contains nutrients such as manganese, potassium, thiamine, magnesium, zeaxanthin, carbohydrates, vitamin B-6, vitamin A, pantothenic acid, phosphorus, dietary fiber, beta-carotene, riboflavin, copper, calcium, lutein, proteins, fats, vitamin E, vitamin C, folate, vitamin niacin, zinc and iron. All of these nutrients make pista perfectly suited for good health.
Health Benefits of Nutritious Pista
Weight Management
Are pistachio nuts good for weight loss? common questions are raised in everybody’s mind and the answer is yes, it is an ideal contender for weight loss. Evidence suggests that pista contains low saturated fat, high protein, high unsaturated fats and lower calories makes it ideal nuts for the people who are dieting.
Absorption of iron
High copper content in pista, helps in the higher absorption of iron from food sources in the body. This helps to prevent, combat conditions like anemia.
Healthy Heart
One of the important health benefits of pista is that they are heart-friendly nuts. Research quotes that every day pista consumption can lower the levels of bad cholesterol in the body. The monounsaturated fatty acids, polyunsaturated fatty acids, phytosterols and antioxidants present in it makes an amazing choice for promoting a healthy heart.
Nervous System
Vitamin B6 is present in large amount in pista, which is very beneficial to the nervous system. Amines are the messaging molecules in the nervous system in order to develop amines, they need amino acids which in turn dependent vitamin B6. This vitamin B6 builds a sheath called myelin around the nerve fibers and helps in building numerous amino acids which help in proper conveyance of nerve impulses.
Healthy Skin
Pista oil is an excellent natural moisturizer and contains ample amount of essential fatty acids, which are important for maintaining a healthy, smooth and glowing skin.
Pista Oil Hair Benefits
Hair benefiting fatty acids present in pista help in stimulating the hair growth. Application of pista oil helps in improving the flexibility of hair fibers. In addition, it is also a great remedy for treating colour damaged hair, hair loss and split ends.
There are different variety pista product available in the market know a day like green pista kernel, salted pista, pista biscuits, pista oil, pista healthy drinks, etc. After seeing the immense health benefits of pista grab any one of the products include it the diet and enjoy its health benefits.
Enjoy The Miraculous Health Benefits Of Walnut Everyday
Foodzu Benefits, Fitness, Health Foods, Wellness February 16, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 749 views
Walnut trees are from the family Juglandaceae which mostly grow in the northern hemisphere. They can reach 30-130 ft in height. Walnut is the seed of a drupaceous which are single-seeded stone fruits used as nutmeat after fully ripening. There are two major types of walnut available in the market that is Black walnut and Persian or English walnut.
Nutritional value
Walnuts are rich in several dietary minerals, particularly vitamins B, manganese, protein, fat, dietary fiber and carbohydrates. While English walnuts are the most commonly consumed, their profile and nutrient density and are usually similar to those of black walnuts. Unlike most of the black walnuts are rich in monounsaturated fatty acids.
Health Benefits of Nutritious Walnut
Prevents Pancreatic Cancer
A researchers quoted that consumption of walnuts reduces the potential risk factors of pancreatic cancer. A research association with 75,680 women who were suffering from pancreatic cancer observed that the women who consumed walnut everyday had significantly reduced risk of pancreatic cancer.
Increases life span
Eating a fistful of walnuts just twice a week is the key to a longer healthier life. Scientists discovered that 40 per cent of people in the world suffer from to cancer and from cardiovascular related disease. In general, nut eater particular walnut eaters a 45 per cent reduced risk of these of diseases which leads to longer life span.
Walnut benefits of brain
Walnuts contain a large amount of neuroprotective compounds, including, omega-3 fats, melatonin, antioxidants, folate and vitamin E. Research shows walnut consumption may decrease the enhanced oxidative to vulnerability stress that occurs in aging, increases brain health, increasing inferential reasoning in young adults and also enhance cognitive and motor function in aging.
Walnut benefits for hair
Walnut and walnut essential oil contain biotin, vitamin B7 that helps to strengthen hair, prevent hair loss and improve hair growth.
Induces sleep
Melatonin is a compound present in Walnuts, which is responsible for conveying night and day cycle messages to the body. Since melatonin is already harmonized by the body, consumption of walnuts boosts the blood levels of melatonin, thereby promoting good sleep.
The most common foods are best for health, and this is certainly true in case of walnuts. Walnut are available in different variety in market like Coca walnut brownie, essential walnut oil, raw walnut butter, walnut kernel, etc. include the nutty fruit walnut in the diet and obtain the immense health benefit from it.
Troll Into the Immense Health Benefits of Dates
Foodzu Benefits, Fitness, Green Living, Health Foods, Wellness February 15, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 712 views
Date or date palm scientific know as Phoenix dactylifera, is a flowering plant species from Arecaceae (palm family) cultivated and naturalized in many tropical and subtropical regions worldwide for its nutritious sweet fruit. Dates have been a popular food in the Indus Valley and the Middle East for 1000 of years and they are believed to be originated around Iraq.
Nutritional value
The researcher has quoted that consuming one date per day is necessary for maintaining healthy and balanced diet. Dates are rich in several minerals, fiber and vitamins. These delicious fruits contain copper, phosphorous, iron, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sulfur and manganese which are all beneficial for good health.
Health Benefits of Nutritious Dates
Strengthens the nervous system
Date have ample amount of potassium and sodium that helps in maintaining nervous system in order. Including it in the diet helps to reduce risk of a stroke and lowers cholesterol.
Rich in iron and protein
Apart from the fluorine, dates also contain iron, which is highly suggested for those who suffer from iron deficiency. It is a rich source of proteins that help keep the muscles strong and fit and it’s great for blood purification.
Energy Booster
Dates are high in natural sugars like sucrose, fructose and glucose. It is the excellent snack for an boosting energy. Many people around the globe use dates for a snack when they are feeling sluggish or lethargic.
Dates benefits for hair and skin
Loaded with vitamin B, dates is excellent snacks and wonderful remedies for hair loss. It also contains iron, which is a key element to prevent hair loss. Replenished with vitamin C, it does wonders in soothing the skin, retaining the moisture level, keeping skin hydrated and improve the skin elasticity etc.
Treatment Of Intestinal Disorders
The dates contain nicotine, which promotes the growth of good bacteria in the intestines and hinders the growth of harmful pathological organisms. Besides, they also contain beneficial amino acids, soluble and insoluble fibers. which provides proper digestion of food and full absorption of the nutrients from the digestive tract.
The sweet fruit makes for an amazing breakfast snack with porridge and cereals. People across the world consume dates in different form like dates syrup, dry dates, dates Pickle, chocolate almond dates, dates with cream cheese etc. it’s important to note that including it in diet in any form improves the health tremendously.
Enjoy the Amazing Health Benefits of Oats Every Day
Foodzu Benefits, Health Foods, Wellness February 15, 2017 March 2, 2018 0 Comment 699 views
The oat sometimes called the common oats (Avena sativa), is a species of cereal grain grown for its seed. While oats are suitable for human consumption as rolled oats, oatmeal and one of the universal uses is as livestock feed. Oats are chiefly a North American and European crop. These areas have the moist, cool climate to which oats are best adapted.
Nutrient profile
Oats are generally considered healthy due to their rich content of several essential nutrients like dietary fiber, vitamins B, protein and numerous dietary minerals, especially carbohydrates,manganese, dietary fiber and beta-glucans. Beta-glucans is soluble fiber has been proven to lower cholesterol level in the body.
Amazing Health Benefits of Oats
Anticancer Properties
Similar to other grains and vegetables, oats carry a favorable amount of phytochemicals. These phytochemicals are considered to prevent the occurrence of cancer. Research and studies and have proven that dietary fiber regulates the circulation of estrogens, thus reducing the risk of cancer.
Oats benefits weight loss
Oats are rich in beta-glucan, a soluble fiber that convert to gel during the digestion process. This gel boost the viscosity of food in the small intestine and stomach. As a result, it slows down the digestion duration, thus resulting in an elongated absorption of nutrients and carbohydrates. This helps you stay full for longer periods, thus preventing the risk of obesity and overeating.
Oats benefits for skin
Cooked oatmeal is a wonderful remedy for treating acne. Oats are effective in fighting flaky dryness, dull as they contain polysaccharides (which become gelatinous in water). They form a smooth protective layer when applied on the skin. The cereal is useful in treating dry skin symptoms like peeling, scales, rashes, itching, etc.
Oats benefits for hair
It acts as amazing moisturizer and can be applied on hair to eliminate itchiness, dandruff, dryness and also clears the scalp by removing excess oil, sebum, and dirt accumulated on the scalp. It is often used as an ingredient in shampoos.
Reduces Cholesterol
Among the ample variety of cereal grains, oats carry the maximum amount of soluble fiber. The oats are converted into a gel-like structure during digestion, which traps the substances causing a hike in blood cholesterol levels.
Oats have numerous uses in foods, most commonly they are used as oat flour and is chiefly eaten as oatmeal. It also be used in a variety of baked goods such as, oat bread, oatmeal cookies and oatcakes. It is also the prime ingredient in many cold cereals, in particular granola and muesli. Hence, oatmeal is a supervised and can be a nutritious choice for all meals as well as snacks. So let us include oats in our daily routine and say goodbye to diseases. Stay fit, stay healthy!
← Previous
Tag Cloud
Benefits of Turmeric Fights with bacteria Increases Immunity
Recent Posts
Know The Reasons Why Coconut Flour Is More Popular
Strong Coffee – The Taste Of Freshness
What are Onion Flakes And How Are They Useful
10 Fat Burning Foods You Should Include In Your Diet
Eat The Right Way- The Ayurvedic Way
Categories
Beauty (15)
Benefits (238)
Fitness (42)
For Tastebuds (2)
General (82)
Green Living (39)
Health Foods (107)
Herbs (9)
How to Use (62)
Kids (1)
Recipes (1)
Uncategorized (2)
Wellness (144)
Archives
June 2018 (6)
May 2018 (7)
April 2018 (12)
March 2018 (17)
February 2018 (8)
December 2017 (10)
November 2017 (5)
October 2017 (10)
September 2017 (14)
August 2017 (13)
July 2017 (18)
June 2017 (18)
May 2017 (18)
April 2017 (17)
March 2017 (20)
February 2017 (19)
January 2017 (13)
November 2016 (1)
October 2016 (1)
May 2016 (1)
April 2016 (1)
March 2016 (1)
January 2016 (1)
December 2015 (2)
October 2015 (1)
August 2015 (8)
July 2015 (2)
Copyright © Official Blog of 2019 Foodzu. All Right Reserved