The Best Stretch Mark Creams for Pregnancy: 2019 Reviews - Today Mommy
Skip to content
Pregnancy
Delivery/Postpartum
Parenting
Babies
Nursing/Breastfeeding
Toddlers
Motherhood
Menu
Pregnancy
Delivery/Postpartum
Parenting
Babies
Nursing/Breastfeeding
Toddlers
Motherhood
Facebook Pinterest Twitter
Search
Close
The Best Stretch Mark Creams for Pregnancy: 2019 Reviews
Pregnancy / 10/11/2018 04/23/2019
This post may contain affiliate links. Please see my full disclosure for more information.
Share
Tweet
Pin
200shares
With pregnancy comes stretch marks. Luckily, there are ways that you can minimize or prevent stretch marks from happening (or help fade them if you do get them).
Here’s everything you need to know about the best stretch mark creams for pregnancy:
What are stretch marks?
The scientific term for stretch marks is “stria”. They are long, thin marks or lines that occur on your skin after rapid stretching.
These stretch marks can be different colors like red, purple, white, light blue, and silver. Most pregnant women will get stretch marks during the third trimester.
The most common places that you can find stretch marks are on the hips, breasts, thighs, buttocks, and arms. You are at greater risk of developing stretch marks if you are female, have recently gained or lost weight, or are obese.
Why stretch marks occur
Stretch marks happen when your skin stretches quickly.
During pregnancy, as the skin around your tummy expands, it causes these marks or striations. A lack of collagen in your skin will also increase the risk of stretch marks.
Cortisone or cortisol is an adrenal hormone that is released during pregnancy which can weaken skin’s elasticity and contribute to stretch marks.
Other reasons why stretch marks occur aside from pregnancy can be due to rapid weight gain and breast implants.
Related: What To Pack In Your Hospital Bag
How to get rid of stretch marks
There are ways you can try to lessen or diminish the appearance of stretch marks:
Vitamin E
Creams and lotions that contain vitamin E have been known to reduce scarring and lessen the appearance of stretch marks.
Retinoids
This is used topically but shouldn’t be used during pregnancy. Products containing retinoids are also used to treat wrinkles, acne, and scarring. It is safe to use retinoids after pregnancy on your stretch marks.
Laser therapy
Performed in salons or dermatological clinics, laser therapy can help to reduce scarring but are often pricey.
Time
As time goes by, most stretch marks will fade or lighten until they won’t be as noticeable.
How to avoid stretch marks during pregnancy:
Manage Weight Gain – While it is normal to gain some weight during pregnancy (on average 25-35 lbs depending on your pre-pregnancy weight), avoid excessive weight gain since this can cause stretch marks.
Stay hydrated to keep your skin healthy and reduce the risk for stretch marks.
Exercise can help get your blood flow going and this circulation can increase skin elasticity and prevent stretch marks.
Incorporate nutrients into your diet like vitamin E, C, zinc, protein, and omega 3 fatty acids, which help create collagen that is good for your skin’s elasticity. Examples of these foods include oranges, eggs, tomatoes, avocados, legumes, fruits, and vegetables.
Use topical products (creams, oils, lotions) to keep your skin healthy. Vitamin E is an effective ingredient found in most of these stretch mark creams.
How stretch mark creams work/benefits of stretch mark creams
Prevents stretch marks
If your skin is properly nourished during your pregnancy, you may prevent stretch marks from appearing. You can ask your doctor for a pregnancy safe stretch mark cream to be used on your bump to help reduce the risk of stretch marks appearing.
Lessen and improve the appearance of stretch marks
If you do get stretch marks after pregnancy, you can apply stretch mark creams containing vitamin E or vitamin A in order to diminish the visibility. (Remember to not use stretch mark creams with vitamin A during pregnancy).
By applying stretch mark creams regularly, your skin will have a more plump appearance and can help fade those lines out.
Affordability
It is more affordable than laser treatments so by applying stretch mark creams during pregnancy, you can lessen the risk of stretch marks appearing and you wouldn’t have to spend a lot in the long run for expensive treatments to get rid of them.
Prevents scars
If you don’t treat stretch marks, it can lead to scarring and can appear red. Stretch mark creams can help in preventing further damage and tearing on your skin.
Prevents dry skin
If your skin is not moisturized, stretch marks can appear worse and can also lead to itchiness and increased dryness.
Related: The Ultimate Guide To The Amazon Baby Registry
Factors to consider when picking the best stretch mark creams for pregnancy
Ingredients
if you are using a stretch mark cream during pregnancy, it is best to avoid those with any retinol or vitamin A in it. Go for those with ingredients that are non-toxic and without any synthetic fragrances, parabens, and petroleum products.
Hypoallergenic
During pregnancy, you may be sensitive to different ingredients so it’s best to always test the product on a small patch before applying it all over.
Application
It is best that the cream you apply will be absorbed into the skin smoothly and quickly. Ideally, it shouldn’t leave any sticky or greasy feeling/residue.
Scent
Especially during pregnancy, strong scents could be off-putting to some women and so it’s recommended to get a stretch mark cream that doesn’t have such a strong scent.
Price
Depending on your budget, there are different price ranges for various stretch mark creams in the market. Prices could range from 7 dollars to 40 dollars.
Performance
Pick a stretch mark cream that will provide you with the most benefits like minimizing stretch marks, fade stretch marks, and provide relief from itchiness and dryness.
Related: The Best Tips For A Better Postpartum Recovery
Best stretch mark creams for pregnancy
Choosing the best stretch mark creams for pregnancy can feel daunting, so I’ve narrowed it down to my top eight picks!
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Massage Lotion
Palmer's Cocoa Butter Formula Massage Lotion For Stretch Marks with Vitamin E and Shea Butter Women Body Lotion, 8.5 Ounce (Pack of 2)
Palmer's Cocoa Butter Formula Massage Lotion For Stretch Marks with Vitamin E and Shea Butter Women Body Lotion, 8.5 Ounce (Pack of 2)
$14.72
Buy on Amazon
It contains vitamin E, collagen and elastic ingredients to help combat stretch marks and strengthen your skin. It’s a thick cream that contains shea butter and cocoa extracts.
It’s also highly recommended by over 1,000 moms on Amazon.
This is one of the most popular brands of stretch mark cream and many moms vote that it is one of the best stretch mark creams for pregnancy due to its effectiveness and affordability.
Basq stretch mark butter
Basq Advanced Stretch Mark Butter, 5.5 oz by Basq
Basq Advanced Stretch Mark Butter, 5.5 oz
5.5 oz.
no color
$86.23
Buy on Amazon
Pregnancy and nursing friendly, you can be assured that it is safe to use. It is free of parabens, phthalates, mineral oil, sodium lauryl sulfate, caffeine, or artificial colors.
It has also been tested to be zero sensitive, meaning that it won’t cause any irritations or allergic reactions. It is vegan-friendly as well. It contains shea butter that can penetrate deep into the skin but also feels lightweight.
It moisturizes the skin and prevents visible scarring. There is a light fragrance that you may notice.
Click here to check out Basq Stretch Mark Butter.
TriLastin maternity stretch mark prevention cream
Sale
TriLASTIN Maternity Stretch Mark Prevention Cream, Unscented, 4 fl oz. - Hypoallergenic, Paraben-Free Formula
STRETCH MARK PREVENTION CREAM - Helps improve skin resilience and elasticity to prevent stretch marks
SIMPLE YET EFFECTIVE - Utilizing essential oils, this cream helps prevent stretch marks from pregnancy
HELPS RELIEVE ITCHY SKIN - Safe, hypoallergenic, pH Balanced 6.0 Formula that soothes, hydrates, protects
NATURALLY-DERIVED FROM MOTHER NATURE - 15 botanical oils and extracts, and enriched with antioxidants and essential fatty acids
MADE IN THE USA - Brought to you by TriLASTIN, this effective stretch mark prevention cream is made in the USA by a team of award-winning scientists and crafted to reveal your true inner beauty.
$34.95
Buy on Amazon
This stretch mark cream is great to use to prevent stretch marks to occur during pregnancy.
It is pH balanced and contains 15 botanical oils to keep your skin healthy. It also has antioxidants and fatty acids to help with collagen development.
It is also hypoallergenic and paraben free. Apart from hydrating and soothing your skin, it can also relieve any itching or dryness. It also doesn’t have a greasy formula.
Check out TriLastin here.
Botanic Tree Stretch Mark Cream
Stretch Mark Cream Remover-Decrease Stretch Marks in 93% of Customers in 2 Months-Helping Scars and Prevention w/Cocoa Butter, Shea,Vit E,Centella Asiatica and Avocado-The Best For Pregnancy
PROVEN RESULTS-Our Stretch Mark Cream reduces and prevents stretch marks and scars. This cream for stretch marks delivers intense hydration and better results after 2 months of use. Best scar cream, best stretch mark removal cream.
ANTI STRETCH MARK CREAM FOR PREGNANCY-Our Anti Stretch Mark Cream is designed to be perfectly safe for recent and expecting mom. "belly butter for pregnancy, stretch mark cream removal"
STRETCH MARK REMOVAL CREAM-It is great for those who have experienced dramatic changes in weight. Prevent stretch marks during pregnancy, the best treatment for stretch marks.
COCOA BUTTER STRETCH MARK-Our anti-stretch mark contains Centella Asiatica, and it is proved that develops 34% less stretch mark than who uses stretch mark oil. Fading cream,cocoa butter lotion.
LOTION FOR STRETCH MARKS-Made in USA-100% Organic Extracts-Satisfaction Guarantee- Works or your money back. Bio oil stretch marks pregnancy, cream for stretch marks,scar removal cream. A natural alternative to Mederma and Body Merry Cream.
$22.90
Buy on Amazon
As your tummy is growing during pregnancy, you can use this cream as well as after you have given birth. This means it can prevent stretch marks as well as treat them if ever you do get some. It can even help with existing stretch marks.
It contains shea and cocoa butters, olive oil, avocado, vitamin B5, and Centella Asiatica. It also contains 100% organic ingredients and is free of parabens.
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Skin Therapy Oil
Sale
Palmer's Cocoa Butter Formula with Vitamin E Skin Therapy Oil, Rosehip Fragrance, for Stretch Mark and Scar Care, 5.1 oz.
Cocoa butter body oil helps improve the appearance of scars, stretch marks, dry, damaged skin, uneven skin tone, aging skin and fine lines and wrinkles
Made with COCOA BUTTER to naturally moisturize, VITAMIN E and our unique CETESOMATE-E COMPLEX to improve skin imperfections, SESAME OIL for deep hydration, ROSEHIP OIL for essential fatty acids to promote healthy skin cell rejuvenation, and ARGAN OIL to soften and condition skin.
Free of mineral-oil, parabens, phthalates.
24-hour moisturizing body oil is great for head-to-to application without clogging pores. Works well on skin types, including sensitive skin
Non-greasy cocoa butter formula for skin absorbs quickly for smooth head-to-toe application without clogging pores
$9.88
Buy on Amazon
Unlike creams or lotions, oils don’t need a lot of artificial ingredients and preservatives. This brand also doesn’t contain retinol or vitamin A, which is always a good thing if you are pregnant.
Aside from being lightweight, it doesn’t contain mineral oil meaning it isn’t greasy and won’t clog your pores. It contains vitamin E which helps heal scars.
Check out Palmer’s Skin Therapy Oil here.
Burt’s Bees Mama Bee Belly Butter
Burt's Bees Mama Bee Belly Butter, Fragrance Free Lotio - 6.5 Ounce Tub
BELLY BUTTER WITH SHEA BUTTER: Designed for mamas, nourish your belly before and after pregnancy with this rich, moisturizing Burt's Bees Belly Butter.
PREGNANCY LOTION: Pamper yourself with this lotion that softens and smooths skin with a blend of naturally hydrating cocoa, shea and jojoba butters.
UNSCENTED LOTION: This fragrance free belly butter gently and safely moisturizes as your belly and skin stretch during pregnancy.
RECOVERY BODY BUTTER: Help your skin recover after pregnancy with this 99% natural belly butter that provides relief and comfort to stretched skin.
NATURAL SKIN CARE: This lotion for moms to be is non-irritating and 99% natural formulated without phthalates, parabens, petrolatum, or SLS.
$9.79
Buy on Amazon
It contains vitamin E, shea and jojoba butter, that is great at preventing stretch marks, moisturizing the skin, and lightening existing stretch marks. It can easily be absorbed and can be used on sensitive skin.
It can also help with itching and pains that come with extreme stretching during pregnancy. It also has 99% natural ingredients.
Check out Burt’s Bees Belly Butter here.
Body Merry Stretch Mark Cream
Body Merry Vanilla Orange Stretch Marks & Scars Defense Cream - Daily Scented Moisturizer w Organic Cocoa Butter + Shea + Oils to Help Remove old/new Scars & Stretch Marks
REDUCE AND PREVENT STRETCH MARKS & SCARS: Our body butter helps to reduce and prevent the appearance of scars & stretch marks by firming and moisturizing your skin with a customized blend of high quality and natural ingredients. This lotion was formulated to deliver intense hydration and provide protection to help smooth rough skin & marks, and provide your skin with relief. This is the Vanilla and Orange scented version of our popular original blend.
PACKED IN AN AMPLE 4 oz JAR: Just a little bit goes a long way with this creamy butter, but don't let the rich texture fool you, this creme spreads quickly and easily, absorbing in seconds! Massage this onto potential problem areas like your stomach or thighs, preferably twice a day: morning & night. Whether you're looking for a lotion to keep your skin looking smooth for prenatal / maternity care, or just living your life, our formula protects against rough skin, marks, and blemishes.
POWERED WITH VITAMINS & ANTIOXIDANTS: Our body butter is powered by natural ingredients like Vitamins E, C, B3 + B5, as well as plant stem cells, seaweed, & rich oils. All of them work towards the same goal: tightening / lightening the appearance of dark spots and stretch marks while delivering maximum care & nutrients. With a delicate, light scent of vanilla and orange, pamper and protect your skin. Get happy about your skin now!
CRUELTY FREE & SAFE: Our products are vigorously tested to ensure that they are safe and free from irritation for all skin types and hair types, but we would never test on animals - we love our furry (and scaly) friends & to show that, we are LEAPING BUNNY CERTIFIED! Our products use wholesome, all natural ingredients & gentle formulas designed for every skin type (sensitive, normal, oily) & hair color (blonde, brunette, redheads, etc) to give you only the best experience possible.
90-DAY MANUFACTURER GUARANTEE: We love our products and we hope you do too! All of our products are lovingly manufactured in the USA and if you ever have any questions or if you're not satisfied with your purchase, just drop us a line and we'll see what we can do to help you Get Happy with your skin - this product is also Vegan Friendly!
$19.99
Buy on Amazon
It’s great to use to prevent stretch marks and contains high-quality ingredients to provide that moisture and protection for your skin. The cream can be easily spread and absorbed into the skin.
It also contains a lot of antioxidants, vitamin E, C, B3, B5, and rich oils.
Check out Body Merry Cream here.
Mama Mio The Tummy Rub Butter
Sale
Mama Mio The Tummy Rub Butter ,4.1 Fl Oz
Maximum protection against stretch marks and itchy tummies
Safe during pregnancy and nursing
Helps your body bounce back quicker after baby
Suitable for all skin types
$30.00
Buy on Amazon
Apart from providing that much-needed hydration, this butter also helps your skin’s elasticity while it is being stretched, so that stretch marks are prevented.
It contains shea butter, organic oils, coconut oil, avocado oil, with no harmful ingredients like parabens, petroleum, colorants, etc. It is safe to use during and after pregnancy.
Check out Mama Mio Tummy Rub Butter here.
If you are worried about stretch marks during or after your pregnancy, you can take the necessary precautions in order to avoid them by choosing using one of the best stretch mark creams for pregnancy.
There are many options out there for you to try out and help keep your skin healthy, moisturized, as well as keeping those stretch marks at bay.
Share
Tweet
Pin
200shares
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Type here..
Name*
Email*
Website
Search
Get Started
Pregnancy
Parenting
Motherhood
Navigation
Home
About
Contact
LEGAL
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms
© 2019 MMC Media LLC
Disclaimer: All content on this site is written for informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any information from this blog be used as replacement for professional medical, financial, or legal advice. All information or ideas provided should be discussed in detail with an advisor, accountant or legal counsel prior to implementation. MomsMakeCents.com is owned by MMC Media, LLC and neither are licensed by or affiliated with any third-party marks on this website and third parties do not endorse, authorize, or sponsor our content except where clearly disclosed. MomsMakeCents.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.