How to Stop a Runny Nose: 8 Home Remedies That Work
Newsletter
How to Stop a Runny Nose at Home
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD on October 26, 2017 — Written by Adrian White
Treatments
Bottom line
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Getting a runny nose
Getting a runny nose happens to all of us, a condition that we can easily deal with at home.
There are a few reasons why you might get a runny nose. The most common is a viral infection of the sinuses — typically the common cold.
In other cases, a runny nose may be due to allergies, hay fever, or other causes.
Stopping a runny nose with home remedies
If you prefer using natural remedies, there are plenty of options that can help. Explore the following home treatments to see if any work for you and your runny nose.
1. Drink plenty of fluids
Drinking fluids and staying hydrated when dealing with a runny nose can be helpful if you also have symptoms of nasal congestion.
This ensures that mucus in your sinuses thins out to a runny consistency and is easy for you to expel. Otherwise, it may be thick and sticky, which congests the nose even further.
Avoid beverages that dehydrate rather than hydrate. This includes drinks like coffee and alcoholic beverages.
2. Hot teas
On the other hand, hot beverages like tea may sometimes be more helpful than cold ones. This is because of their heat and steam, which help open and decongest airways.
Certain herbal teas may contain herbs that are mild decongestants. Look for teas that contain anti-inflammatory and antihistamine herbs, such as chamomile, ginger, mint, or nettle.
Make a cup of hot herbal tea (preferably non-caffeinated) and inhale the steam before drinking. Sore throats often accompany runny noses — drinking hot herbal tea can help soothe a sore throat, too.
3. Facial steam
Inhaling hot steam has been shown to help treat a runny nose. A 2015 study of people with the common cold proved that using steam inhalation was quite effective. It reduced illness recovery time by about one week compared to no steam inhalation at all.
In addition to inhaling steam from a hot cup of tea, try a facial steam. Here’s how:
Heat clean water in a clean pot on your stove. Heat it just enough so that steam is created —DON’T let it get to a boil.
Place your face above the steam for 20–30 minutes at a time. Take deep breaths through your nose. Take breaks if your face gets a too hot.
Blow your nose afterward to get rid of mucus.
If desired, add a few drops of decongestant essential oils to your facial steam water. About two drops per ounce of water is sufficient.
Eucalyptus, peppermint, pine, rosemary, sage, spearmint, tea tree (melaleuca), and thyme oils are great options. Compounds in these plants (like menthol and thymol) are also found in many over-the-counter decongestants.
If you don’t have these essential oils, use these herbs in dried form instead. Make your facial steam into an herbal tea and inhale the vapors — you’ll get the same benefits.
Find essential oil starter kits on Amazon.
4. Hot shower
Need some quick relief? Try a hot shower. Just like a hot tea or facial steam, a shower’s spray can help alleviate a runny and stuffy nose.
Place your face and sinuses directly in the steam and spray of the shower for best results.
5. Neti pot
Using a neti pot for nasal irrigation (also called nasal lavage) is a common approach to sinus issues. This includes runny nose problems and discomfort.
Neti pots are small teapot-like containers with a spout. You add a warm saline or saltwater solution to the pot. You then use the pot to pour the solution through one nostril and out the other. This rinses out your sinuses quite thoroughly.
Purchase a neti pot kit at your local pharmacy, store, or on Amazon. Make sure to follow directions for your neti pot exactly. Improper use of neti pots can, though rarely, make runny noses worse or cause sinus infections.
Make sure to use sterile and distilled water rather than tap water.
Add decongestant essential oils like the ones mentioned earlier to your saline solution for added benefits, if desired (only add two to three drops per pot).
6. Eating spicy foods
Spicy foods can make a runny nose worse. However, if you’re also having symptoms of nasal congestion, eating spicy foods can possibly help.
If you can tolerate quite a bit of heat in your food, give it a try. If you’re unaccustomed to spiciness, try a little bit of spicy seasonings at first to see if it helps.
Hot spices like cayenne pepper, ghost pepper, habanero, wasabi, horseradish, or ginger are great options. These spices, while also creating a feeling of heat when eaten, dilate passageways in the body and can relieve sinus issues.
7. Capsaicin
Capsaicin is the chemical that makes chili peppers spicy. It’s been used to treat nerve pain and psoriasis, but if you apply it on your nose, it can help with a runny nose caused by congestion.
Several studies have found that capsaicin is more effective at treating runny noses than the over-the-counter medication budesonide.
The bottom line
There are many home remedies you can try to get relief from a runny nose without using medication.
None of these remedies are designed to actually cure or completely get rid of the underlying causes of runny noses — namely colds, viral infections, or allergies.
These approaches will only give you relief. Make sure to seek more direct treatment if you’re experiencing colds, viruses, and allergies.
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD on October 26, 2017 — Written by Adrian White
related stories
Sore Throat
The 4 Best Natural Antihistamines
5 Reasons Spicy Food is Good for You
The Health Potential of Rosemary
9 Benefits of Eucalyptus Oil
READ THIS NEXT
Sore Throat
Medically reviewed by Carissa Stephens, RN, CCRN, CPN
Sore throats are a common symptom caused by infections or environmental factors. We help you out with the causes, treatments, and when to see a doctor.
READ MORE
The 4 Best Natural Antihistamines
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
The sneezing, itchy eyes, congestion, and sinus pressure that come with seasonal allergies - all of these symptoms can become nearly unbearable. Learn…
READ MORE
5 Reasons Spicy Food is Good for You
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD
Spicy food isn't just exciting - it's also in your health's best interest. Here's why the world of science recommends you turn up the heat on your…
READ MORE
The Health Potential of Rosemary
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD
Rosemary is a popular herb most commonly used in cooking to add flavor to food. It's not so commonly known that rosemary also has many health benefits.
READ MORE
9 Benefits of Eucalyptus Oil
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD
Eucalyptus oil is made from the leaves of the eucalyptus tree. When extracted and diluted, it may disinfect wounds, heal cold sores, and even control…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 135294 Client Version: 5af65d9698535e6d0254acdb42b8098a2b2c5b6e Build Number: 26722