How to Get Rid of Acne Scars - Selfcarer
CLOSE
Health
Nutrition
Skin & Hair
Men
Women
Health
10 Symptoms of Lactose Intolerance You Should Know About
14 Things Your Nails Say About Your Health
8 Physical Signs of High Cholesterol You Should Know About
How to Get Rid of Dry Mouth
How to Get Rid of Gallstones
Nutrition
12 Amazing Health Benefits of Alkaline Water
7 Health Benefits of Nettle Tea
13 Surprising Health Benefits of Coffee
12 Unhealthy Drinks You Should Avoid
15 Brain Boosting Foods You Should Be Eating
Skin & Hair
How to Get Rid of Oily Face
The 7 Best Oils for Moisturizing Acne Prone Skin
How to Increase Collagen Production
14 Effective Home Remedies for Psoriasis
How to Get Rid of Scalp Acne
Men
How to Lower Estrogen in Males
12 Muscle Building Supplements for Men
How to Get Rid of Man Boobs
Causes and Symptoms of Low Testosterone
15 Foods That Increase Sperm Count
Women
PCOS Diet: Foods to Eat and Foods to Avoid
How to Make Your Period Come Faster
How to Deal With PMS
8 Signs You Have Candida Overgrowth
How to Stop Vaginal Itching
How to Get Rid of Acne Scars
September 11, 2014
Acne could be a tormenting skin burden, and they usually leave scars behind that are more unpleasant experiencing. Most of the acne scars will fade on their own, but it will take several months to get disappear. But do not despair; there are many things you can do to help speed the healing process along, such as trying home remedies, using over-the counter creams or seeking out medical treatments. Read on to learn how to get rid of acne scars.
Get Rid of Acne Scars with Home Remedies
Use lemon juice. Lemon juice is one of the best treatments for acne scars. All you need is a fresh lemon or fresh squeezed lemon juice, which you will then mix with a cup of water and apply to the scarred areas on your face for three to four minutes. Doing this everyday eliminates dead skin and promotes new skin growth.
Alternatively, try dipping a washcloth into the mixture and then holding it against your skin.
Make sure to always moisturize after applying lemon juice to the skin, as the citrus juice can irritate dry skin.
Use nectar. Nectar is likewise fit for treating acne scars. The most effective method to utilize nectar to fade acne scars. Apply nectar on the scars and leave it overnight. In the morning, wash it with lukewarm water.
Use raw tomatoes. The red great tomatoes also can dispose of the scars from your face. Take a ready red tomato and cut it into pieces. Crush the pieces to make a mash of the tomato. Apply this tomato mash all over and leave for 15-20 minutes. Wash off your face. Repeat this every day for a week or two.
Use cucumber. Mash cucumber and apply them over the face for 15 minutes. Rinse off with lukewarm water. Cucumber has cooling effect which keeps skin smooth. It helps to clear all the dirt on the skin. Cucumber is used in many beauty products to heal skin problems. Cucumber helps effectively to get rid of acne scars naturally fast.
Use honey. Honey can be used to treat not only acne scars but also acne itself. It is gentle on your skin and reduces redness and irritation. Honey contains antibacterial properties which help to fade acne scarring and dark marks. It is moisturizing and makes your skin soft. Dab a little honey directly onto the scars at night, and wash off in the morning.
Use a green tea mask. This method is somewhat gentler than an aspirin mask, so try it if you have easily irritated skin. Soak a bag of green tea leaves, then cut it open and mix it with a couple teaspoons of honey. Apply this to your face, wait 15 minutes, and rinse with warm water. The tea and honey both have soothing properties, which should decrease the redness of your acne scars (just make sure you don’t rub too hard!).
Use baking soda. Baking soda is another treatment to help with fading acne scars. Just mix baking soda with water to create a paste like mixture then apply on to your face like you would a regular face mask. This will not only eliminate dead skin cells but it will also make your scars less noticeable over time.
Use rosehip oil. Rosehip oil is loaded with vitamins and antioxidants which help to keep skin looking smooth and healthy. While the use of rosehip oil on fresh acne spots is still being evaluated, its use has been proven effective in repairing acne scars as well as other forms of scars and skin blemishes. Through regular use, marks and scars will fade and become less prominent over time. Simply massage the oil gently into the affected area once or twice a day.
Use aloe vera. Aloe Vera is known in the cosmetic field for its healing properties, and it can be used to gently, yet effectively heal acne scars over time. Although you can buy many aloe-based gels commercially, the best thing to do is purchase an aloe plant.
To use the aloe from an aloe vera plant, break off a leaf and rub the gel-like contents directly onto the skin. Let it dry, leave it on for 30 minutes. Wash off with a mild cleanser. Try to do this every day.
Use olive oil. Another great product for fading acne scars is olive oil, which is filled with vitamin E and natural healing properties. Just massage the oil into your scars several times a day.
Use vitamin E oil. Vitamin E oil has incredible moisturizing properties and is an effective treatment for acne scars. Apply pure vitamin E oil to your skin 2-3 times daily, and you should see results in about 2 weeks.
Use coconut oil. Due to the lauric, caprylic and capric acid found in coconut oil, it makes an excellent cream to help diminish acne scars. Coconut oil also helps prevent new acne scars from forming. To fade acne scars, massage coconut oil into the affected area at least once a day, but 2-4 times daily is best.
Use an aspirin mask. Aspirin possesses effective anti-inflammatory properties and it contains a form of salicylic acid, which is used in many acne treatments. An aspirin mask can be used to soften your skin and reduce discoloration.
To make the mask, crush 4-5 aspirin tablets into a powder, then mix the powder into natural yogurt or pure aloe gel. Apply the mask to your face and let it sit for 15 minutes.
Wash off with lukewarm water, pat your face dry, and moisturize.
Use an ice cube. This treatment works best for new, or inflamed scars as the ice will reduce swelling and shrink blood vessels. Over time, ice will also help to reduce the appearance of minor scars and discoloration.
Wrap an ice cube in a piece of tissue or cloth and rub it over the inflamed areas for 10-15 minutes a day.
Medical Treatments for Acne Scars
Try over-the-counter creams. There are tons of scar treatment products available over-the-counter which can help to even out redness and discoloration. They are usually branded as either scar-fading or lightening creams. Look for creams with active ingredients such as kojic acid, licorice extract, arbutin, mulberry extract, and vitamin C. These ingredients exfoliate the skin, removing the discolored top layers and leaving the skin smooth and tight.
If you can get your hands on it, a product called “hydroquinone” is a very effective skin lightener. Unfortunately, this product has been banned in European and Asian markets due to its association with cancer risks. Some hydroquinone products are still available over-the-counter in the US, however you will need a prescription for concentrations higher than 2%.
Try tissue filler. If your acne scars are more like indentations and scoops than raised bumps, tissue filler can work wonders to plump up and smooth out the skin. Tissue fillers – such as hyaluronic acid – are injected underneath the skin by a dermatologist, producing immediate results. Unfortunately, the effects of this treatment are not permanent, so if you like it, you’ll just have to keep coming back every few months for more!
Silicone micro-droplets are a newer type of filler which actually stimulate your skin’s production of collagen, allowing skin to regenerate on its own. You will need several rounds of injections for the treatment to take effect, but once these are complete the results are permanent.
Try dermabrasion. Dermabrasion wears down scarring by removing the top layers of skin using a rotating wire brush. This treatment is quite harsh and your skin can take up to three weeks to heal, but once it does, you will have a new layer of lovely fresh, smooth skin.
Get a chemical peel. Chemical peels are concentrated acidic solutions that exfoliate the outer layer of your skin, exposing the softer and smoother skin underneath. They are effective for fading acne scars, as well as evening out skin tone, improving fine lines and treating sun damage. Chemical peels are available at your local dermatologist or plastic surgeon’s office.
Get laser resurfacing treatment. Laser resurfacing treatment works by removing top layers of skin from the acne scars, which are damaged and hyperpigmented, leaving the skin underneath tighter and smoother. This treatment doesn’t even need to be done in a hospital, a dermatologist can perform the laser resurfacing right in his or her Office.
The laser can feel a little painful, but the doctor usually numbs the skin with a local anesthetic first, so it’s not too bad.
The treatment can take up to an hour and may require several sessions, depending on the severity of the scarring.
See a dermatologist. If the over-the-counter products aren’t packing enough of a punch, consider seeing a dermatologist who can prescribe a stronger, medicated cream. You can also discuss other options for fading acne scars, such as laser treatments or chemical peels.
If all else fails, try surgery. If no other treatments seem to be working, consult with your dermatologist about having your scars surgically removed. Be aware that surgery is the highest-risk option, as it often involves anesthesia, and can be very pricey – so you should only consider this option if your scars are very deep or extensive.
Most of the time, surgery involves having each scar cut out individually, though sometimes a surgeon will need to break up the fibrous tissue which causes scarring, beneath the skin.
It will take some time for your skin to heal after surgery, and you may also need to get a resurfacing treatment to smooth out the top layer of skin.
Proper Skin Care for Acne Scars
Stay hydrated. Drinking water is not going to get rid of acne scars on its own, but staying hydrated is essential for healthy skin and will help to speed up the skin’s natural rejuvenation process. Try to drink 1-2 liters of water a day and eat lots of fresh fruit and veg.
Wear sunscreen every day. Exposing scars to the sun can cause them to darken and slow the healing process. This is because ultraviolet rays stimulate the pigment-producing cells in your skin, leading to further discoloration. To avoid this, you should wear a sunscreen every day, summer or winter.
Before heading outdoors, apply a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher that contains the ingredient zinc oxide. Reapply after swimming, sweating, or after more than 2 hours in the sun.
Exfoliate daily. Exfoliating your skin on a regular basis can help your acne scars to fade naturally, by removing layers of old, blemished skin to reveal the fresh new skin underneath. You can exfoliate using face washes containing small, exfoliating particles or you can simply rub your face gently with a washcloth. However, be careful about what kind of exfoliation products you use, especially if you have sensitive skin, as some exfoliation agents can dry out the skin, causing further redness and irritation.
Don’t squeeze or pick. Scars are made up mainly of collagen, and are the body’s way of healing itself. However, by picking or squeezing pimples, you cause pus and bacteria to filter deeper into the skin, damaging your skin’s natural collagen. Picking also leads to skin damage and inflammation, which delays the healing process. Avoid picking or squeezing spots, and eventually the collagen-based scars will disappear on their own.
Use gentle skincare. It’s tempting to try abrasive scrubs and all sorts of irritating treatments in a desperate effort to get rid of acne discolorations, but irritation only causes more harm, which impedes your skin’s ability to heal itself. Stick to gentle, non-irritating skincare which is kind to your skin.
Be careful when shaving. Use a clean razor every time. You might want to use an over-the-counter benzoyl peroxide wash before and after you shave. Your doctor can prescribe an antibiotic foam that you can mix with your shaving cream to help prevent breakouts. If shaving bumps are a problem for you, try using an electric razor, and don’t shave too closely.
Sources:
http://www.totalbeauty.com/content/article/fade-acne-scars
http://www.rosehipoil-benefits.com/acne.php
http://www.coconutoilfacts.org/coconut-oil-for-acne.php
http://byescars.com/how-aloe-vera-can-heal-your-acne-scars/
http://hirabeautytips.com/how-to-get-rid-of-acne-scars-naturally-at-home/
http://www.beautyandgroomingtips.com/2008/05/aspirin-for-acne-prone-skin.html
http://www.tipscollection.net/2013/05/5-secret-tips-to-fade-acne-marks-at-home.html
http://www.mensfitness.com/gear/fashion-and-trends/skincare-101-5-ways-to-fade-acne-scars
http://www.skinacea.com/how-to/fade-acne-marks.html#.Uc2zG_lOPpV
http://kidshealth.org/teen/your_body/skin_stuff/acne_scars.html#
http://www.skinacea.com/facials/peels/chemical.html#.Uc3K8PlOPpU
http://www.paulaschoice.com/expert-advice/acne/_/red-marks-and-acne-scars
Selfcarer
Popular Articles
25 Amazing Uses for Coconut Oil
July 26, 2015
15 Signs You’re Not Drinking Enough Water
June 8, 2015
12 Signs of Gluten Intolerance
July 8, 2015
How to Reduce Pore Size
April 26, 2015
10 Warning Signs of Magnesium Deficiency
July 12, 2015
About
Contact
Terms
Privacy
© Copyright 2017 - Selfcarer.com
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Digg
Del
StumbleUpon
Tumblr
VKontakte
Print
Email
Flattr
Reddit
Buffer
Love This
Weibo
Pocket
Xing
Odnoklassniki
ManageWP.org
WhatsApp
Meneame
Blogger
Amazon
Yahoo Mail
Gmail
AOL
Newsvine
HackerNews
Evernote
MySpace
Mail.ru
Viadeo
Line
Flipboard
Comments
Yummly
SMS
Viber
Telegram
Subscribe
Skype
Facebook Messenger
Kakao
LiveJournal
Yammer
Edgar
Fintel
Mix
Instapaper
x
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Send this to a friend
Your email Recipient email
Send
Cancel