Minoxidil for Hair Loss - A Practical Choice
Hair Loss Procedures Laser
Why Choose a Laser Comb to Treat Hair Loss?
Minoxidil for Hair Loss - A Practical Choice
Minoxidil is a remedy which helps people who are going through hair loss restore hair growth. It has been cleared by the FDA since 1998 and was made available to the public without a prescription in 1996. However, this medication wasn't originally created as a remedy for baldness. It was developed from a medication that is used to treat patients with high blood pressure.
The story is that significant changes in terms of hair growth were seen by people who were taking the drug after a few months. Afterwards, the manufacturing company decided to develop it further into what is known today as Rogaine Minoxidil.
Minoxidil is sold in two different forms. The first is the 2% version which is advised to be used by women and the second one is the stronger 5% version, recommended for use by men.
Women who have tried the 5% version have noticed an undesirable increase in facial hair growth so many women have wisely decided against the use of the stronger version. Now that we know the brief history of how this hair loss treatment came to be, let's talk about how it works.
Studies about Rogaine Minoxidil hair loss treatments haven't really come to a conclusion about how the medication works, exactly. We know that it works well but researchers are still not sure how it is able to produce new strands of hair on places in the scalp that have been bald for years.
A theory concerning Minoxidil suggests that the medication has an impact on the DHT levels in the blood. In short words, DHT is a form testosterone which affects the sensitive hair follicles in men who have the gene for androgenetic alopecia. However, further investigation has shown that Minoxidil has no effect on DHT levels. Some people think that it might be because of the fact that Minoxidil is a vasodilator and helps blood flow better through our vessels. But, once again, it has not been proven.
What are we aware for certain, then? Well, one thing that is known is that Rogaine Minoxidil helps at reducing the speed at which your hair follicles miniaturize. It also helps in encouraging the hair follicles that have miniaturized to begin growing again and become full sized strands. In fact, if the drug is used continuously it can help keep hair growing at a steady pace and can remain in that manner for long periods of time.
In a way, Minoxidil helps to keep your hair follicles in what is known as the "anagen phase" or growing phase for longer periods of time than what it normally would have. The results would be longer and much thicker hair. However, do keep in mind that the effects aren't instant and that one might have to use the product for a few months before you see any changes. Also, the results can be different from one person to another and you cannot expect the same hair growth success to come about and vice versa.
Benjamin Scott would like to invite you to his hair loss forum called hair loss duel. Join free and ask questions about hair loss or share your knowledge with other members at: http://www.hairlossduel.com
Source: http://www.submityourarticle.com
Permalink: http://www.submityourarticle.com/a.php?a=61006
hair loss | bald-hair-grow | bald-hair-grow.info | bald-hair-grow.mobi | bald-hair-grow.us | male-pattern-baldness