TOP 10 BEST CREAMS FOR OLD STRETCH MARKS - Mina Beauty, Health & Lifestyle
Home
ABOUT
BEAUTY BLOG
BLOG
Mina Beauty, Health & Lifestyle
Health & Beauty Guides
HOME
MAKEUP
SKINCARE
HEALTH & BEAUTY
HAIR
ABOUT
BLOG
×
Search for:
TOP 10 BEST CREAMS FOR OLD STRETCH MARKS
Contents
Top 10 Best Creams for Old Stretch Marks
The Truth About Stretch Marks
The Best Creams for Old Stretch Marks
Body Merry Stretch Marks and Scars Cream
Mederma Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Healthy Priority Vitamin E Enhance
Smooth RX Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Bio Oil Multi-Purpose Skincare Oil
E-raOrganics Stretch Marks and Body Oil
Deux Derme Stretch Marks Cream
Clarins Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Botanic Tree Organic Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Burt’s Mamma Bees Belly Butter
Share this:
Like this:
Top 10 Best Creams for Old Stretch Marks
Stretch marks are those dreaded white, purple and red streaks and stripes that can form anywhere and everywhere on your body. Not only are these scars not pleasing to look at but it can prove sensitive and itchy over time. The best relief for stretch marks is the application of deeply hydrating cream. Moisturization combined with elastin and collagen building ingredients is most effective in relieving any discomfort while preventing more stretch marks from forming. We look at the top 10 best creams for old stretch marks and the tips you need to achieve smoother, beautiful skin.
The Truth About Stretch Marks
Almost every woman and even some men will experience the formation of stretch marks at some stage in their lives. It is a process that occurs when the skin is stretched at a rapid rate and there are insufficient collagen and elastin to accommodate these changes. Stretch marks occur during rapid weight loss and pregnancy. It is most prominent across the abdomen, thighs, underarms, buttocks, and breasts. While nobody loves the idea of having stretch marks, it is a natural occurrence that more people share with one another than what they would otherwise think. Red and purple stretch marks that are newly formed are most responsive to creams however older stretch marks are a little tougher to get rid of. We take a look at the most effective creams on the market to help minimize additional scars and diminish the scars already present.
For expectant moms, always consult with your doctor before applying any stretch mark relieving cream or oil.
The Best Creams for Old Stretch Marks
Body Merry Stretch Marks and Scars Cream
Body Merry has released its shea butter and organic cocoa butter range specifically to tackle those unwanted stretch marks. With additional ingredients such as jojoba oil and green tea extract, the skin is provided the nourishment needed to rebuild and rejuvenate. It helps to heal and decrease the appearance of such scars.
Mederma Stretch Mark Removal Cream
The Mederma is a great preventative line of stretch mark creams containing all essential ingredients targeted towards pregnant women. It is the ideal product to add to a daily skin care regime and provide the nourishment your skin needs to prevent further stretching and scarring.
Healthy Priority Vitamin E Enhance
Healthy Priority is an all-natural product containing high levels of vitamin E in an easy to apply oil formulation. Vitamin E is an antioxidant and combining this with massage can assist in rebuilding damaged skin cells while hydrating the scars for healing to take place. The oil blend includes jojoba oil and avocado oil to accelerate recovery and decrease the appearance of lines and dark marks across your skin.
Smooth RX Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Smooth RX offers an all-rounder when tackling those troublesome stretch marks. The Fierce Stretch Mark and Scar Removal cream are ideal for stretch marks and the scars left behind post-surgery and acne. The ingredients consist of aloe, cocoa, shea, and mango butter. Each of these butter offers deep hydration ideal for tackling the stretched and marked skin. You can also apply the product as a preventative measure to avoid the future formation of stretch marks.
Bio Oil Multi-Purpose Skincare Oil
Making it into the top 10 best creams for old stretch marks, Bio Oil is an old product that has shown effective in hydrating and treating various skin conditions. From eczema to acne and stretch marks, the oil is fast absorbing and provides the tissues the vitamins and patented Purcellulin Oil to prevent further scars and address the ones already present.
E-raOrganics Stretch Marks and Body Oil
While Era Organics is not a cream, it remains an important contender when looking to reduce the appearance of old and stubborn stretch marks. The oil contains essential fatty acids Omega 3 and 6, apricot seed oil, olive oil, and vitamins. It does not contain parabens or perfumes and is recommended as a daily treatment to relieve the irritation caused by these scars including the severity of its appearance.
Deux Derme Stretch Marks Cream
The intensive cream consists of scar fighting ingredients including shea butter, cocoa butter and vitamin E. The purpose of the cream is to provide your skin what it needs to repair itself. The range is also free from parabens and harsh chemicals that could cause more irritation to sensitive skin. With its advanced formulation, following a daily skincare regime provides the body what it needs to heal at a cellular level.
Clarins Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Clarins has combined the need for a stretch mark removal cream with skin firming properties. The product offers crowberry juice that has shown favorable results in tackling scars but also in firming any sagged skin that occurs with weight gain and loss. It does not come in a very large bottle making it a costlier choice when applying to large areas such as the thighs and abdomen.
Botanic Tree Organic Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Botanic Tree works over a 3-month period and must be applied daily to achieve the desired stretch mark improvement. Consisting of cocoa butter, shea butter and vitamin B-5 this range has received increased attention for its beauty and skincare benefits. It can be applied to both older scars and newly formed stretch marks.
Burt’s Mamma Bees Belly Butter
The shea butter and vitamin E formulation have proven most effective and favorable in the management of stretch marks and scars. The belly butter is free from parabens and fragrances making it the most suitable choice for those interested in chemical-free formulations. Its extensive number of reviews online speak volumes for the effectiveness of Burt’s Belly Butter in addressing the fresh and stubborn stretch marks that can take over your skin. Determine which of the top 10 best creams for old stretch marks are best for your scar management regimes.
[thrive_posts_gallery category=’4′ title=”OTHER RELATED POST” no_posts=”10″ filter=”recent”]
https://minaamachree.com/how-to-get-rid-of-stretch-marks-on-your-thigh/
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Post navigation
← HOW TO GET RID OF STRETCH MARKS ON YOUR THIGH
8 BEST DARK INNER THIGH CREAMS →
1 thought on “TOP 10 BEST CREAMS FOR OLD STRETCH MARKS”
Pingback: BEST EYE CREAMS FOR DARK CIRCLES UK - Mina Beauty, health & lifestyle
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search for:
MEET MINA
Recent Posts
THE FIVE BEST CREAM FOR UNDER EYE CIRCLES
HOW TO MANAGE ACNE PRONE, VERY OILY SKIN
BEST EVENING SERUM FOR ACNE PRONE SKIN
STRETCH MARKS PREGNANCY, CAUSES, AND TREATMENTS
HOW DO YOU KNOW YOUR SKIN UNDERTONE
BEST EYESHADOW PALETTES FOR DARK SKIN TONE
BEST FOUNDATION FOR OILY SKIN
Birth Control Pills and Weight Gain
Copyright © 2019 Mina Beauty, Health & Lifestyle
Design by ThemesDNA.com
%d bloggers like this: