Fever in toddlers | BabyCenter
advertisement
Expert Advice Home
Log in or Sign up
COMMUNITY
GETTING PREGNANT
PREGNANCY
BABY
TODDLER
PRESCHOOLER
BIG KID
HEALTH
VIDEO
PRODUCTS & GEAR
FOR YOU
Join now to personalize
BabyCenter for your pregnancy
Children's Health
Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu
Fever in Toddlers: Overview
Fever in toddlers
Written by BabyCenter Staff
Reviewed by the BabyCenter Medical Advisory Board
IN THIS ARTICLE
How can I tell if my toddler has a fever?
How can I tell if my toddler's fever is serious?
When should I call the doctor if my toddler has a fever?
How will the doctor treat my toddler's fever?
Is it better to try to break a fever or let the fever fight the infection?
Which medicines are safe to treat my toddler's fever?
Are there other ways to try to break my toddler's fever?
What should I do if my toddler has a seizure from a high fever?
Why does my toddler's fever keep coming back?
My toddler has a fever and no other symptoms. What's wrong?
How can I tell if my toddler has a fever?
Kiss or touch your child's forehead. If you think he feels hotter than normal, you're probably right.
A fever is usually a sign that the body is waging a war against infection. Taking your child's temperature can confirm your suspicions and help you and your child's doctor figure out the best way to get your child back on the road to health.
Most doctors – and the American Academy of Pediatrics – agree that a normal body temperature for a healthy child is between 97 and 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit (36 to 38 degrees Celsius). If your child's temperature is above this range, he has a fever.
How can I tell if my toddler's fever is serious?
A temperature reading isn't the only indication of whether a fever is serious.
Behavior is a factor: A high fever that doesn't stop your child from playing and eating normally may not be cause for alarm.
Activity is a factor: Children are hotter if they've been running around than when they wake up from a nap.
Keep in mind that everyone's temperature rises in the late afternoon and early evening and falls between midnight and early morning. This natural cycle of our internal thermostat explains why doctors get most of their phone calls about fever in the late afternoon and early evening.
When should I call the doctor if my toddler has a fever?
You're the best judge of whether your child is really ill – so do call if you're worried, no matter what his temperature is.
Generally, the most important thing is how your child looks and acts: If he appears well and is taking fluids, there's no need to call the doctor unless the fever persists for more than 24 hours or is very high. Ask your doctor for additional guidance: For example, the doctor may suggest calling right away if your child's fever reaches 104 degrees, regardless of symptoms.
The AAP suggests calling the doctor if your child has a temperature of 103 degrees F (39.4 degrees C) or higher and has symptoms such as loss of appetite, cough, an earache, unusual fussiness or sleepiness, or vomiting or diarrhea.
Also call the doctor if:
Your child is noticeably pale or flushed, or is excreting less urine.
You notice an unexplained rash, which could indicate a more serious problem when coupled with a fever. Small, purple-red spots that don't turn white or paler when you press on them, or large purple blotches, can signal a very serious bacterial infection.
Your child has difficulty breathing (working harder to breathe or breathing faster than usual) even after you clear his nose with a bulb syringe. This could indicate pneumonia.
How will the doctor treat my toddler's fever?
If your child is reasonably alert and taking fluids and has no other symptoms that suggest a serious illness, the doctor may advise simply waiting 24 hours before bringing him in. Because fever is often the first symptom of an illness, a doctor may not find anything significant if your child is examined too early.
Depending on how uncomfortable your child is, the doctor may suggest giving him children's acetaminophen or ibuprofen to bring down the fever.
If your child has symptoms that suggest a serious illness or infection, to the doctor will instruct you to bring him in to be evaluated, either to her office (if you call during working hours) or to an emergency room.
Is it better to try to break a fever or let the fever fight the infection?
Since fever is part of the body's defense against bacteria and viruses, some researchers suggest that an elevated temperature may help the body fight infections more effectively. (Bacteria and viruses prefer an environment that's around 98.6 degrees F/37 degrees C.) A fever also tells the body to make more white blood cells and antibodies to fight the infection.
On the other hand, if your child's temperature is too high, he'll be too uncomfortable to eat, drink, or sleep, making it harder for him to get better.
If your child's fever isn't affecting his behavior, you don't need to give him anything to lower it. Offer plenty of liquids to prevent dehydration, and don't overdress him or bundle him up when he's sleeping.
If your child's body temperature is higher than normal because of extra clothes, a scorching day, or a lot of active play, help him cool down by taking off a few of his layers and encouraging him to rest or play quietly in a cool spot.
Which medicines are safe to treat my toddler's fever?
You can use children's acetaminophen or ibuprofen to bring down your child's temperature.
Be very careful when administering medicine to your child. His weight will determine the right dose. Always use the measuring device that comes with the medicine or an oral syringe to give your child exactly the right amount.
Don't give fever-reducing medicine more often than is recommended. The directions will probably say that you can give acetaminophen every four hours (up to a maximum of five times per day) and ibuprofen every six hours (up to a maximum of four times per day).
Never give your child aspirin. Aspirin can make a child more susceptible to Reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially fatal disorder.
A final word of caution: Most doctors don't recommend over-the-counter cough and cold preparations for young children, but if your child is taking a prescription remedy, talk with the doctor before giving your child any other medicine, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. Cough and cold remedies may already contain these products, so you risk giving your child too much medicine.
Are there other ways to try to break my toddler's fever?
You can try to reduce your child's fever by sponging him down with tepid (lukewarm, not cold) water or giving him a lukewarm bath.
Never try to reduce a fever by sponging down your child with rubbing alcohol. Rubbing alcohol can be absorbed into your child's bloodstream through the skin. It can also cool him too quickly, which can actually raise his temperature.
What should I do if my toddler has a seizure from a high fever?
Fevers can sometimes cause febrile seizures in babies and young children. They're most common in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years.
A child having this type of seizure may roll his eyes, drool, or vomit. His limbs may become stiff and his body may twitch or jerk. In most cases, the seizures are harmless, but that doesn't make it any less terrifying if your child's having one.
Read more about febrile seizures and how to handle them.
Why does my toddler's fever keep coming back?
Fever-reducing medicines bring down body temperature temporarily. They don't affect the bug that's producing the infection, so your child may run a fever until his body is clear of the infection. This can take at least two or three days.
Some infections, such as influenza (the flu), can last from five to seven days. If your child has been treated with antibiotics to fight a bacterial infection, it may take 48 hours for his temperature to fall.
My toddler has a fever and no other symptoms. What's wrong?
When a child has a fever that isn't accompanied by a runny nose, a cough, vomiting, or diarrhea, figuring out what's wrong can be difficult.
There are many viral infections that can cause a fever without any other symptoms. Some, such as roseola, cause three days of very high fever followed by a light pink rash on the trunk.
More serious infections, such as meningitis, urinary tract infections, or bacteremia (bacteria in the bloodstream), may also trigger a high fever without any other specific symptoms. If your child has a persistent (longer than 24 hours) fever of 102.2 degrees F (39 degrees C) or higher, call the doctor, whether or not he has other symptoms.
Show sources
AAP. Undated. Fever. American Academy of Pediatrics. http://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditions/fever/Pages/default.aspx
Mayo Clinic. Undated. Fever. http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/fever/DS00077
MedlinePlus. Undated. Fever. http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/003090.htm
Texas Children's Hospital. Undated. Myths about fever. http://www.texaschildrenshospital.org/Parents/TipsArticles/ArticleDisplay.aspx?aid=851
UpToDate. Undated. Fever in children. http://www.uptodate.com/contents/patient-information-fever-in-children
advertisement | page continues below
View comments (29)
advertisement
Featured video
All pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos >
advertisement
Where to go next
Urinary tract infection in children
Roseola
Blood infection or bacterial sepsis
Febrile seizures in toddlers
Freebies & Coupons
Get coupons
Editor's picks
Signs of an ear infection
Fever: 7 things you might not know
4:44
Video: Taking your child's temperature
advertisement
Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app
ABOUT BABYCENTER
About us
Awards
Careers
Advertise with us
Press Center
Mission Motherhood
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Ad Choices
Free Stuff & Great Deals
Love us?
GET HELP
Help Center
Contact Us: General inquiries
Contact Us: Community
Community Guidelines
Email Subscriptions
Account Details
Family Information
OTHER SITES
BabyCenter en Español
Baby.com
Pregnancy.com
Arabia
Australia
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
India
Malaysia
UK
BABYCENTER APPS
Pregnancy & Baby
Baby Names for iOS
My Pregnancy Alexa Skill
BabyCenter Roku Channel
Connect with us
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resource, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Join now
XO,
Your friends at BabyCenter
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2019 All rights reserved.
This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use.
New to BabyCenter? Join now
Log in to continue
Email address
Password
Forgot your password?
Keep me logged in
Log in
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resources, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Track my baby
Community
TOP RESOURCES
Birth Clubs
Groups
Topics
Birth Stories
Mom Answers
POPULAR GROUPS
Bargain Hunters
Trying to Conceive
Breastfeeding Support
Miscarriage Support
Plus Size and Pregnant
Teaching Your Child to Sleep
Cooking For Your Family
Parenting Advice
Large Families
Preemie Parenting
See all in Community
Getting Pregnant
TOP RESOURCES
Ovulation Calculator
Pregnancy Symptoms
How to Get Pregnant
What Cervical Mucus Looks Like
When Do I Ovulate?
How Long it Takes to Get Pregnant
Am I Pregnant?
In Vitro Fertilization
Ovulation Symptoms
Pregnancy Tests
Implantation Bleeding
Chart Your Cycle
POPULAR TOPICS
Timing Sex for Pregnancy
Tips for Getting Pregnant
Infertility & Trouble Conceiving
See all in Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
TOP RESOURCES
Due Date Calculator
Baby Name Finder
Popular Baby Names
Pregnancy Week by Week
Sex During Pregnancy
Weight Gain Tracker
Signs of Labor
Morning Sickness
Cramping During pregnancy
C-Sections
Gestational Diabetes
POPULAR TOPICS
Labor & Delivery
Aches & Pains
Pregnancy Safety
Health Problems in Pregnancy
Prenatal Care & Tests
See all in Pregnancy
Baby
TOP RESOURCES
Feeding Guide
Sleep Basics & Training
Soothe a Crying Baby
When Babies Start Talking
When Babies Roll Over
When Babies Crawl
Diaper Rash
Postpartum Depression
Breastfeeding
First-Year Baby Costs Calculator
POPULAR TOPICS
Your Newborn
Baby Development
Solids & Finger Foods
Sleep & Feeding Schedules
Your Postpartum Health
See all in Baby
Toddler
TOP RESOURCES
Average Weight & Height
Autism Signs
Child Growth Chart
Night Terrors
Moving from Crib to Bed
Development Milestones
Toddler Feeding Guide
Toddler Tantrums
Separation Anxiety
How Much Sleep? (Birth to Age 2)
Fine Motor Skills
POPULAR TOPICS
Toddler Development
Toddler Behavior
Toddler Sleep & Naps
Potty Training
See all in Toddler
Preschooler
TOP RESOURCES
Height Predictor
Potty Training: Boys
Potty training: Girls
How Much Sleep (Ages 3+)
Ready for Preschool?
Tantrums
Thumb-Sucking
Gross Motor Skills
Napping (Ages 2 to 3)
POPULAR TOPICS
Development (Ages 2 to 4)
Preschooler Behavior
Eating & Nutrition
Picky Eaters
Discipline Strategies
Preschool Basics
See all in Preschooler
Big Kid
TOP RESOURCES
Jokes for Kids
Growth Spurts
Aggression
Nail-Biting
Defiance
Is Your Child Gifted?
Bed-Wetting
Talking Back
Talking to Kids About Divorce
POPULAR TOPICS
Activities & Play
Behavior
Discipline
School
Parenting Strategies
Talking About Difficult Subjects
See all in Big Kid
Health
TOP RESOURCES
Photos: Rashes & Skin Conditions
Symptom Checker
Vaccine Scheduler
Reducing a Fever
Teething
Acetaminophen Dosage Chart
Constipation in Babies
Ear Infection Symptoms
Infant CPR
Head Lice 101
POPULAR TOPICS
Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu
Teething & Tooth Care
Injuries & Accidents
Childproofing
Food Allergies
See all in Health
Video
TOP RESOURCES
Live Birth: Natural
How to Bathe a Baby
Getting Pregnant: When to Have Sex
Water Birth
Breastfeeding Positions
Getting an Epidural
How to Burp a Baby
How to Swaddle a Baby
Potty Training in 3 Days
Breast Changes During Pregnancy
How to Use a Breast Pump
POPULAR TOPICS
Weekly Pregnancy Series
Childbirth
Baby Care Basics
Celebrations
See all in Video
Gear
TOP RESOURCES
Baby Registry Checklist
2018 Best Baby Products
Best Breast Pump
Best Convertible Car Seat
Best Infant Car Seat
Best Baby Bottle
Best Baby Monitor
Best Stroller
Best Diapers
Best Baby Carrier
Best Diaper Bag
Best Highchair
POPULAR TOPICS
Toys & Activities
Baby Clothes
Cribs, Bassinets & Beds
See all in Gear
For You
TOP RESOURCES
First Birthday Ideas
Second Birthday Ideas
Quick and Healthy Snacks
Paternity Leave
Can Pets Sense Pregnancy?
Chinese Gender Predictor
Gender Reveal Parties
Baby Shower Games
Lullabies
POPULAR TOPICS
Family Finance
House & Home
Travel
Life as a Mom
Meal Planning & Recipes
Age & Fertility
See all in For You
Connect with us
Already a member? Log in
Due date or child's birthday
mmJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec dd12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 yyyy202020192018201720162015201420132012201120102009200820072006200520042003200220012000
Trying to conceive
Calculate my due date
First day of your last period
Select date
Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners
Privacy Policy | Terms
Sign in