Dealing With Athlete's Foot - Podiatrist in Chevy Chase, MD
Michael Gittleson DPM
5454 Wisconsin Ave Suite 1250 Chevy Chase, MD 20815-6902(301) 986-4900
Toggle navigation
Facebook
blog
Home
Staff
Offices
Services
New Patients
Contact Us
Appointment Request
Patient Education
Heel Pain
Diabetic Foot Care
Ingrown Toenails
Orthotics
Dealing With Athlete's Foot
Athlete's foot is one of the most common fungal infections of the skin and is frequently seen in our office. Whether you've had it or not, it's important to understand how you can avoid and treat this highly contagious infection if you do contract it.
The fungus that causes athlete's foot thrives in damp, moist environments and often grows in warm, humid climates, such as locker rooms, showers and public pools; hence the name "athlete's foot. " This infection can itch and burn causing the skin on your feet and between your toes to crack and peel.
Tips For avoiding Athlete's Foot:
Keep your feet dry, allowing them to air out as much as possible
Wear socks that draw moisture away from your feet and change them frequently if you perspire heavily
Wear light, well-ventilated shoes
Alternate pairs of shoes, allowing time for your shoes to dry each day
Always wear waterproof shoes in public areas, such as pools, locker rooms, or communal showers
Never borrow shoes due to the risk of spreading a fungal infection
Treatment
A mild case of athlete's foot will generally clear up on its own with over-the-counter antifungal creams and sprays. But since re-infection is common due to its contagious nature, many people require prescribed anti-fungal medication to effectively treat the infection. Generally, it's always best to consult with your podiatrist before choosing a treatment.
Mild cases of athlete's foot can turn severe and even cause a serious bacterial infection. If you notice your rash has become increasingly red, swollen and painful or you develop blisters and sores, call our office right away. Athlete's foot left untreated could eventually spread to other body parts and infect other people around you.
With the right treatment, you'll be cured of your athlete's foot in no time, which means the sooner you can enjoy the activities you love without pain and irritation!
Our Location
Chevy Chase, MD Podiatrist
Michael Gittleson, DPM
5454 Wisconsin Ave #1250
Chevy Chase, MD 20815
(301) 986-4900
(301) 986-0002 fax
Call For Pricing
Map & directions
Patient Education
Patient Education Menu
Copyright © MH Sub I, LLC dba Officite
Disclaimer
Patient Privacy
Site Map
Home
Staff
Office
Services
New Patients
Patient Education
Contact Us
Appointment Request