16 Major Health Benefits Of Dates (Khajoor) » Good Health All
Privacy Policy
Health Disclaimer
Guest Post Submission
Home
Healthy Fruits
Healthy Nuts
Healthy Vegetables
Healthy Beverages
Healthy Substances
Healthy Spices
Home → Healthy Fruits
16 Major Health Benefits Of Dates (Khajoor)
By: Bharat Sharma|In: Healthy Fruits
Date palm which is also known as Khajoor is a flowering plant cultivated for the edible fruit of the same name (Dates) and belongs to palm family Arecaceae. As it was first cultivated long ago, so it’s original place of origin is not known but it is believed to be originated from the lands around Iraq but is now cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions of the world. This sticky fruit is a good source of vitamins,minerals,dietary fibers, flavonoids etc. and presence of these compounds make them very beneficial for our health . You can refer to below mentioned nutrition chart of dates to know more about the vitamins and minerals present in dates, and then we will know about the major health benefits of dates.
Nutrition Chart Of Dates
source-USDA
Health Benefits of Dates
source-Pixabay.com
(1) Provides Relief From Constipation
Regular and moderate consumption of dates is very beneficial for providing relief from constipation because of the presence of dietary fibers in it. The presence of dietary fibers makes it a natural laxative which regulates bowel movement and ensures proper elimination of waste out of the body. Constipation can give rise to many other health problems so by giving relief from constipation it also reduces the risk of associated diseases.
To get relief from constipation, soak some dates in water overnight and eat them in the morning ( empty stomach). The soluble fiber present in dates will help in smooth passage of stool and will also keep your stomach healthy.
(2) Make Our Bones Stronger
We all know that calcium plays an important role in determining the strength of our bones and deficiency of it can make our bones weak and give rise to Osteoporosis and other relevant diseases. However, health of our bones is determined not only by the calcium but also because of the other nutrients like selenium copper, magnesium, manganese etc. Dates are a good source of numbers of vital nutrients like selenium, manganese, copper and magnesium, and all these minerals plays an important role in improving our bone health and for making them stronger.
Consuming dates on a regular basis not only make our bones stronger but also increases bone density and decreases the risk of osteoporosis etc.
(3) Provides Relief From Intestinal Disorders
Consuming dates on a regular basis are very beneficial for our stomach and helps in keeping our digestive system healthy because of the presence of vital compounds like amino acids, dietary fibers, nicotine etc. present in them. The dietary fiber present in dates regulates bowel movement and ensures smooth elimination of waste out of the body. By doing so it helps in providing relief from constipation and also reduces the risk of associated health problems.
In addition to this, the nicotine present in dates helps in inhibiting the growth of pathological organisms and thus helps in stimulating the growth of friendly bacteria. Dates are also beneficial for stimulating digestive juice in our body, improves the efficiency of digestion and allows proper absorption of nutrient by the digestive system.
(4) Reduces The Risk Of Anemia
Dates are a good source of iron which is a vital nutrient that plays many important roles like Carrying oxygen to every body cell, aids in the formation of hemoglobin, regulates body temperature, maintains nerve health and provides a lot of other benefits (source) .
Deficiency of iron in our body can give rise to anemia which is a very common health problem that affects millions of people around the world. Some of the common symptoms of anemia are general fatigue, weakness, pale skin, shortness of breath, dizziness, irregular heartbeat, brittle nails etc (source). Being a good source of iron, consumption of dates is very beneficial for reducing the risk of anemia and also provides relief to the people already suffering from anemia.
(5) Reduces The Risk Of Allergies
Consumption of dates is very beneficial for reducing several allergic and seasonal reactions because of the presence of organic sulfur in them.Organic sulfur is not commonly found in food but date fruit is an exception. As a per study conducted in 2002, it was found that intake of organic sulfur compounds make a positive impact on the amount of suffering people experience due to seasonal Allergic Rhinitis (SAR), which affects millions of people all over the world.
Suggested Read- 8 Wonderful Beauty Benefits of Dates
(6) Good For Weight Management
Dates are high in calories and consuming 100 grams of dates provide around 282 calories of energy.The high calorific value of dates makes them very beneficial for people who want to gain weight in a healthy way. Dates are also a good source of sugar, proteins and essential nutrients like vitamins and minerals and all these help in maintaining good health.
Dates are beneficial not only for the weight gain but also for weight loss because of the presence of dietary fibers ( 8 grams per 100 grams of dates) in it. The dietary fibers present in dates keep our stomach satisfied for a longer time and decreases our urge to eat again and again, and thus controls overeating.
As overeating is one of the major cause of weight gain so by controlling overeating, it helps in controlling excessive weight gain. If you want to eat dates for losing weight then it is better to eat small quantities as the high calorific value of dates can ruin your weight loss plan. You can also consume dates with cucumber paste, to make your weight management program even more interesting.
(7) Wonderful Energy Booster
The presence of natural sugars like glucose, sucrose and fructose etc. make Dates a wonderful energy booster and maybe this the reason they are used as a quick afternoon snack by many people all over the world. Dates are perfect energy snack that provides an immediate burst of energy and is good for providing relief from sluggishness and lethargicness.
(8) Keep Our Nervous System Healthy
Regular and moderate consumption of dates is very beneficial for keeping our nervous system healthy because of the presence of potassium in it. Potassium is a vital nutrient that plays many important roles in keeping us healthy and one such role is its ability to improve the speed and alertness of our brain activity and promotes the healthy nervous system.
This is because potassium is a vasodilator which reduces pressure, relaxes our vessels and allows more blood to reach our nervous system. When blood reaches our brain cells and nerve cells properly then they function very well. Consuming dates not only improve the alertness of our brain but also helps in keeping our memory sharp.
(9) Good For Heart And Provides Cardiovascular Benefits
Consuming dates on a regular basis very beneficial for our heart and helps in keeping our cardiovascular system healthy because of the presence of potassium in it. Potassium is a vasodilator that provides relaxation to our blood vessels, reduces blood pressure and thus provide relief from high blood pressure which is a major cause of many cardiovascular problems like heart attack, stroke, irregular heartbeat, weak pulse etc.
In addition to this, the dietary fibers present in dates also plays an important role in maintaining heart health as it absorbs bad cholesterol from our body which clogs our arteries and gives rise to cardiovascular problems like heart attack, stroke, irregular heartbeat, atherosclerosis etc.
(10) Improves Sexual Health
Dates can help a man in bed too because of their ability to improve the sexual stamina of a person. For this purpose, soak a handful of dates in fresh goat’s milk and leave it for the whole night. In the morning, add a little cardamom powder and honey to it and grind all the ingredients together. Now, this tonic can be consumed for increasing the sexual endurance and also for reducing sterility caused by various sexual disorders.
As per a 2006 study conducted in Bahmanpour, it was found that high levels of estradiol and flavonoids present in date palm helps in increasing sperm count and also improves their mobility. Dates were also found to be useful for promoting increased testes size and weight, and these aphrodisiac properties of dates make them very beneficial for improving the sexual health of men.
Suggested Read- 15 Side Effects of Eating Too Many Dates
(11) Reduces The Risk Of Night Blindness
Night Blindness is an eye problem ( not a disease but a symptom ) in which a person becomes unable to see at night or in poor light. It is mainly caused by the lack of vitamin A ( there are some other factors too) .
Consuming dates on a regular basis is very beneficial for keeping night blindness at bay and also benefits people who have a weak vision and are already suffering from night blindness.
This benefit of dates is mainly because of the presence of Vitamin A in it. Vitamin A is a vital nutrient that plays an important role in keeping our eyes healthy as they improve vision, prevents our eyes from oxidative stress and also reduces the risk of age-related macular degeneration and other eye disorders.
(12) Provides Relief From Alcoholic Intoxication
The sobering effect of dates makes them very beneficial for providing quick relief from alcoholic intoxication. If you feel that you have drunk too much then enjoy some dates and it will help. Dates can also be used for preventing severe hangovers. For this, soak some dates in water overnight and consume in the morning.
(13) Helps In Diarrhea
Regular and moderate consumption of dates is very beneficial for our digestive health and helps in providing relief from constipation,diarrhea, and other digestive problem. The dietary fiber present in dates regulates bowel movement , ensures proper elimination of stool out of the body and thus provide relief from constipation. Dates are also a good source of potassium which plays an important role in keeping diarrhea in control.
(14) Reduces Risk Of Abdominal Cancer
Eating dates on a regular basis is very beneficial for reducing the risk and impact of abdominal cancer because of the number of vitamins ,minerals and other compounds present in them. What makes the dates more beneficial for our abdominal health is that moderate consumption doesn’t cause any negative side effects on our body, is good for all age groups and in some cases works better than the traditional medicines.
(15) Good For Pregnant Women
Dates are very beneficial for pregnant women as they not only helps in maintaining good health but also eases delivery. This is the reason, dates are traditionally recommended to pregnant women in many cultures. Recent scientific studies have also supported the benefits of dates for pregnant women.
As per a study published in 2011, it was found that starting consuming dates few weeks before labor significantly decreases the need for induction and also proves beneficial to delivery outcome
(16) Prevents Tooth Decay And Strengthens Tooth Enamel
Eating dates on a regular basis is very beneficial for protecting our improving the strength of our tooth enamel and also reduces the risk of tooth decay because of the presence of Fluoride in it. Tooth enamel is a very strong external coating on our teeth. Although they are considered as the toughest mineral substance in our body ( even stronger than bones) but they are not that strong as the sugar, acids,starch etc. from the food and beverages consumed by us can damage them.This is because the presence of sugar and acid on our teeth surface give rise to bacteria which builds up plaque, weakens tooth enamel and give rise to tooth decay.
The Fluorine present in dates combines with the hydroxyapatites of tooth enamel and forms hydroxy fluorapatite, which is an important substance that provides resistance against tooth decay and thus strengthens our tooth enamel. In addition to this, other vitamins and minerals present in dates also play an important role in keeping our teeth healthy.
Reference(s)
http://www.organicfacts.net/health-benefits/fruit/health-benefits-of-dates.html
https://healthyfocus.org/12-health-benefits-of-dates/
http://www.healthbenefitstimes.com/health-benefits-of-dates/
http://www.nutrition-and-you.com/dates.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Date_palm
Disclaimer
The information contained in the post is for general purpose only and shouldn’t be considered as a medical advice or as an alternative to medical advice. Although I’ve tried my best to keep the information contained in this post as accurate and updated as possible, but I make no guarantee of the accurateness of the same.
P.S- Consider sharing this post, if you find it useful and/or interesting.
Previous Post
18 Amazing Health Benefits Of Cantaloupes
Next Post
8 Wonderful Beauty Benefits Of Dates For Skin And Hair
Recommended Posts for You
7 Major Side Effects of Overeating Prickly Pears
13 Wonderful Beauty Benefits of Prickly Pears For Skin And Hair
31 Amazing Benefits And Side Effects of Yellow Watermelon
Search
Health Ads by
Popular Posts
8 Major Side Effects Of Eating Too Many Cashew Nuts (Kaju)
13 Major Side Effects Of Eating Too Many Pistachios (Pista)
8 Major Side Effects Of Eating Too Many Peanuts (Moongphali)
8 Major Side Effects OF Eating Too Many Blueberries
13 Side Effects Of Eating Too Many Cucumbers
Health Ads by
Follow Us
Health Ads by
Privacy Policy
Health Disclaimer
Guest Post Submission