Blood pressure, weight and kidney disease risks
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
High Blood Pressure news |
Blood pressure, weight and kidney disease risks
Oct 14, 2009 Viewed: 530
People with prehypertension are not at increased risk of kidney disease if their body mass index (BMI) is under 30.0 kg/m2, a first-ever examination of the combined effect of blood pressure and body weight on the risk of kidney disease shows.
The study, by a team of medical researchers at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) is available as a pre-publication article online from the American Journal of Kidney Diseases.
Prehypertension is a relatively new medical classification introduced in 2003 in the Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on High Blood Pressure (JNC-7), and is defined as systolic blood pressure of 120 to 139 mm Hg or diastolic BP of 80 to 89 mm Hg. Studies from the United States and Asia have shown that prehypertension can increase the risk of serious kidney disease, but because more than 30 percent of the US and European populations can be classified as prehypertensive, treating everyone with this condition would be an enormous undertaking, the researchers observed.
At the same time, obesity is also known to lead to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and death from chronic kidney disease (CKD) as a result of diabetes and hypertension. These increased risks have led medical researchers to consider whether people with prehypertension should be considered for treatment if they have other cardiovascular risks, such as obesity.
Using data from nearly 75,000 participants in the HUNT 1 study, the first Health Study in Nord-Trøndelag, a team of NTNU researchers led by Dr. John Munkhaugen were able to further clarify the risks of ESRD in overweight individuals.
“We found a strong, independent and continuous association with both BP and body weight” on the risk of treated ESRD or chronic kidney disease related deaths, the researchers wrote. However, “prehypertensive participants increased their risk of treated ESRD or CKD-related death only if BMI was greater than 30.0 kg/mg2.”
The strength of the NTNU study is its ability to use data from the two-decade old HUNT 1 study, which provides researchers the ability to follow up on measurements made 20 years ago. The HUNT 1 study involved 88.2 percent of all inhabitants 20 years or older in Nord-Trøndelag county, in mid-Norway. The data were linked to the Norwegian Renal Registry and to the Cause of Death Registry in Norway.
NTNU, NO-7491 Trondheim, Telephone +47 73 59 50 00
Provided by ArmMed Media
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Hypertension Headlines
Finding the right antithrombotic (anti-clotting)…
Vanderbilt study finds hypertension-related visits…
How healthcare is organized may affect how well…
Enzyme responsible for obesity-related high blood…
Potassium improved blood pressure in teen girls,…
Eating out = high blood pressure?
Prolonged shortened sleep increases blood pressure…
Visceral Fat and Hypertension: A Link?
ATS releases guidelines on the management of pulmonary…
Slightly elevated blood pressure also tied to…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
High Blood Pressure Topics
High Blood Pressure
Additional blood pressure screening may reduce incidence…
New Home Blood Pressure Check Created for Diabetics
What You Should Know About How Smoking Could Cause High…
Prevalence of cocaine use in ED patients with severe hypertension
Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
Blood pressure drugs work well in both sexes
Hypertension - The Silent Killer
African Americans less likely to adhere to DASH diet for…
Blood pressure-lowering drugs for all?
High Cholesterol Food May Reduce Blood Pressure
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
HDL Cholesterol
Zocor curbs smoking-related lung damage, in rats
Low maternal cholesterol tied to premature birth
Statin use linked to lower prostate cancer risk
6 out of 10 doctors aren’t frustrated that patients…
Statins account for 81% of first-line therapies for dyslipidemia…
How Atorvastatin Reduces Cholesterol and Fats in Blood Vessels
Cholesterol-Lowering Drugs Don’t Offset Healthy Choices
Selenium supplementation may boost cholesterol
Researchers Find New Way to Clear Cholesterol From the Blood
Super-sticky ‘ultra-bad’ cholesterol revealed…
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved