Acetaminophen vs. Ibuprofen Side Effects, Differences, Strengths
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/chronic pain health center/chronic pain a-z list/acetaminophen vs ibuprofen side effects article
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) vs. Ibuprofen (Advil) for Pain (Differences in Side Effects and Dosage)
Acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen for pain quick comparison of differences
What is acetaminophen (Tylenol)? What is ibuprofen (Advil)?
What are the uses for acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
What are the side effects of acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
What is the dosage for acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
What drug interact with acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
Are acetaminophen or ibuprofen safe to take if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
Medical Reviewer: John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP
John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP
John P. Cunha, DO, is a U.S. board-certified Emergency Medicine Physician. Dr. Cunha's educational background includes a BS in Biology from Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, and a DO from the Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences in Kansas City, MO. He completed residency training in Emergency Medicine at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark, New Jersey.
Surprising Reasons You're in Pain Slideshow
Take the Pain Quiz
Chronic Pain Slideshow
Acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen for pain quick comparison of differences
What is acetaminophen (Tylenol)? What is ibuprofen (Advil)?
What are the uses for acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
What are the side effects of acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
What is the dosage for acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
What drug interact with acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
Are acetaminophen or ibuprofen safe to take if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
Acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen for pain quick comparison of differences
Acetaminophen (Tylenol and many other brand names) and ibuprofen (Advil) are used to manage mild to moderate pain and fever.
These drugs belong to different drug classes. Acetaminophen is a pain reliever (analgesic) and fever reducer (antipyretic), and ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).
Both acetaminophen and ibuprofen are available in generic form and over-the-counter (OTC).
Common side effects of acetaminophen and ibuprofen that are similar include rash, nausea, and headache.
Side effects of acetaminophen that are different from ibuprofen include:
Hypersensitivity reactions
Serious skin reactions
Kidney damage
Anemia
Reduced number of platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenia)
Liver failure
Side effects of ibuprofen that are different from acetaminophen include:
Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
Dizziness
Drowsiness
Abdominal pain
Diarrhea
Constipation
Heartburn
The most common brand name for acetaminophen is Tylenol. Some brand names for ibuprofen include Advil and Motrin.
What is acetaminophen (Tylenol)? What is ibuprofen (Advil)?
Acetaminophen belongs to a class of drugs called analgesics (pain relievers) and antipyretics (fever reducers). Acetaminophen is believed to work by reducing the production of prostaglandins in the brain. Prostaglandins are chemicals that cause inflammation and swelling. Acetaminophen relieves pain by elevating the pain threshold, that is, by requiring a greater amount of pain to develop before a person feels it. It reduces fever through its action on the heat-regulating center of the brain by telling the center to lower the body's temperature when the temperature is elevated.
Ibuprofen belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other members of this class include aspirin, naproxen (Aleve), indomethacin (Indocin), and nabumetone (Relafen), among others. These drugs are used for the management of mild to moderate pain, fever, and inflammation. Ibuprofen blocks the enzyme that makes prostaglandins (cyclooxygenase), resulting in lower levels of prostaglandins. As a consequence, inflammation, pain and fever are reduced.
What are the uses for acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
Acetaminophen uses
Acetaminophen is used for the relief of fever as well as aches and pains associated with many conditions. Acetaminophen relieves pain in mild arthritis but has no effect on the underlying inflammation, redness, and swelling of the joint. If the pain is not due to inflammation, acetaminophen is as effective as aspirin.
Acetaminophen is as effective as the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen (Motrin) in relieving the pain of osteoarthritis of the knee. Unless directed by a physician, acetaminophen should not be used for longer than 10 days.
Ibuprofen uses
Ibuprofen is used for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, inflammation and fever caused by many and diverse diseases. It is used for treating menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea), osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
What are the side effects of acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
Acetaminophen side effects
When used appropriately, side effects with acetaminophen are not common.
The most common side effects are rash, nausea, and headache.
Other important side effects include:
Hypersensitivity reactions
Serious skin reactions
Kidney damage
Anemia
Reduced number of platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenia)
Chronic alcohol use may also increase the risk of stomach bleeding. The most serious side effect is liver damage due to large doses, chronic use or concomitant use with alcohol or other drugs that also damage the liver.
Ibuprofen side effects
The most common side effects from ibuprofen are:
rash,
ringing in the ears,
headaches,
dizziness,
drowsiness,
abdominal pain,
nausea,
diarrhea,
constipation, and
heartburn.
NSAIDs reduce the ability of blood to clot and therefore increase bleeding after an injury.
Ibuprofen may cause ulceration of the stomach or intestine, and the ulcers may bleed. Sometimes, ulceration can occur without abdominal pain; and due to bleeding, the only signs or symptoms of an ulcer may be black, tarry stools, weakness, and dizziness upon standing (orthostatic hypotension).
Sometimes, ulceration can occur without abdominal pain, due to the bleeding, and the only signs or symptoms of an ulcer are:
black, tarry stools,
weakness, and
dizziness upon standing (orthostatic hypotension)
NSAIDs reduce the flow of blood to the kidneys and impair function of the kidneys. The impairment is most likely to occur in patients who already have impaired function of the kidney or congestive heart failure, and use of NSAIDs in these patients should be cautious.
People who are allergic to other NSAIDs, including aspirin, should not use ibuprofen.
Individuals with asthma are more likely to experience allergic reactions to ibuprofen and other NSAIDs.
Other serious side effects associated with NSAIDs are:
fluid retention (edema),
blood clots,
heart attacks,
hypertension (high blood pressure), and
heart failure.
NSAIDs (except low- dose aspirin) may increase the risk of potentially fatal heart attacks, stroke, and related conditions in people with or without heart disease or risk factors for heart disease. The increased risk of heart attack or stroke may occur as early as the first week of use and the risk may increase with longer use and is higher in patients who have underlying risk factors for heart and blood vessel disease. Therefore, NSAIDs should not be used for the treatment of pain resulting from coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
What is the dosage for acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
Acetaminophen dosage
The dose for adults is 325 to 650 mg every 4 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours when using immediate release formulations.
The dose for extended release caplet is 1300 mg every 8 hours.
The maximum daily dose is 4 grams.
The oral dose for a child is based on the child's age and weight. If less than 12 years old the dosing is 10-15 mg/kg every 6-8 hours not to exceed 2.6 g/day (5 doses). If older than 12 years of age the dose is 40-60 mg/kg/day every 6 hours not to exceed 3.75 g/day (5 doses).
Ibuprofen dosage
For minor aches, mild to moderate pain, menstrual cramps, and fever, the usual adult dose is 200 or 400 mg every 4 to 6 hours.
Arthritis is treated with 300 to 800 mg 3 or 4 times daily.
When under the care of a physician, the maximum dose of ibuprofen is 3.2 g daily. Otherwise, the maximum dose is 1.2 g daily.
Individuals should not use ibuprofen for more than 10 days for the treatment of pain or more than 3 days for the treatment of a fever unless directed by a physician.
Children 6 months to 12 years of age usually are given 5-10 mg/kg of ibuprofen every 6-8 hours for the treatment of fever and pain. The maximum dose is 40 mg/kg daily.
Juvenile arthritis is treated with 20 to 40 mg/kg/day in 3-4 divided doses.
Ibuprofen should be taken with meals to prevent stomach upset.
What drug interact with acetaminophen vs. ibuprofen?
Acetaminophen drug interactions
Acetaminophen is metabolized (eliminated by conversion to other chemicals) by the liver. Therefore drugs that increase the action of liver enzymes that metabolize acetaminophen, for example, carbamazepine (Tegretol), isoniazid, rifampin (Rifamate, Rifadin, Rimactane), reduce the levels of acetaminophen and may decrease the effectiveness action of acetaminophen.
Doses of acetaminophen greater than the recommended doses are toxic to the liver and may result in severe liver damage. The potential for acetaminophen to harm the liver is increased when it is combined with alcohol or drugs that also harm the liver.
Cholestyramine (Questran) reduces the effect of acetaminophen by decreasing its absorption into the body from the intestine. Therefore, acetaminophen should be administered 3 to 4 hours after cholestyramine or one hour before cholestyramine .
Acetaminophen doses greater than 2275 mg per day may increase the blood thinning effect of warfarin (Coumadin) by an unknown mechanism. Therefore, prolonged administration or large doses of acetaminophen should be avoided during warfarin therapy.
Ibuprofen drug interactions
Ibuprofen is associated with several suspected or probable interactions that can affect the action of other drugs.
Ibuprofen may increase the blood levels of lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) by reducing the excretion of lithium by the kidneys. Increased levels of lithium may lead to lithium toxicity.
Ibuprofen may reduce the blood pressure-lowering effects of drugs that are given to reduce blood pressure. This may occur because prostaglandins play a role in the regulation of blood pressure.
When ibuprofen is used in combination with methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) or aminoglycosides (for example, gentamicin) the blood levels of the methotrexate or aminoglycoside may increase, presumably because their elimination from the body is reduced. This may lead to more methotrexate or aminoglycoside-related side effects.
Ibuprofen increases the negative effect of cyclosporine on kidney function.
Individuals taking oral blood thinners or anticoagulants, for example, warfarin (Coumadin), should avoid ibuprofen because ibuprofen also thins the blood, and excessive blood thinning may lead to bleeding.
If aspirin is taken with ibuprofen there may be an increased risk for developing an ulcer.
Persons who have more than three alcoholic beverages per day may be at increased risk of developing stomach ulcers when taking ibuprofen or other NSAIDs.
Combining SSRIs or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (for example, fluoxetine [Prozac], citalopram [Celexa], paroxetine [Paxil, Paxil CR, Pexeva) with NSAIDs may increase the likelihood of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Daily Health News
Two Drugs for Men Up Diabetes Risk
Experimental Blood Thinner
Veggies vs. Steak for Heart
Meals and Heart Attacks
'Bubble Boy' Disease Cure
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Appendectomy
Candida Auris
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Ebola Virus
Hepatitis A
Are acetaminophen or ibuprofen safe to take if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
Acetaminophen safety
Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small quantities. However, acetaminophen use by the nursing mother appears to be safe.
Ibuprofen safety
There are no adequate studies of ibuprofen in pregnant women. Therefore, ibuprofen is not recommended during pregnancy. Ibuprofen should be avoided in late pregnancy due to the risk of premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetal heart.
Ibuprofen is excreted in breast milk but the American Academy of Pediatrics states that ibuprofen is compatible with breastfeeding.
Summary
Acetaminophen (Tylenol and many other brand names is an pain reliever (analgesic) and fever reducer (antipyretic ). Scientists do not know the exact mechanism of action of acetaminophen. Ibuprofen (Advil) is an NSAID (nonsteroidal inti-inflammatory drug) used for the treat inflammation, fever, and mild pain. Ibuprofen works in relieving mild pain, inflammation, and fever by blocking an enzyme that makes chemicals released in the body that promote inflammation (prostaglandins). Prostaglandins promote inflammation in the body.
Common side effects of both acetaminophen and ibuprofen include rash, nausea, and headache.
Side effects specific to acetaminophen include kidney damage, anemia, thrombocytopenia, serious skin reactions, and liver failure.
Side effects of specific to ibuprofen include tinnitus (ringing in the ears), dizziness, drowsiness, stomach pain, constipation, and heartburn.
Dosage depends upon whether the person using acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
Multimedia: Slideshows, Images & Quizzes
Pain Quiz: Test Your IQ of Pain
Is pain all in the brain? Take the Pain Quiz to learn everything you've ever wanted to know about the unpleasant sensation we...
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Symptoms & Treatment
What is rheumatoid arthritis (RA)? Learn about juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Discover rheumatoid arthritis (RA) symptoms,...
Natural Remedies for Cold and Flu
What natural remedies work for the flu and common cold? Many claim cold symptoms and flu symptoms can be relieved with Echinacea,...
Back Pain: Find Relief, Treat Your Back Pain
Back pain conditions are very common. Learn the truth and get the facts behind myths, remedies, causes and treatment for back...
Nasal Irrigation: Natural Relief for Cold & Allergy Symptoms
Nasal irrigation can relieve sinus symptoms associated with colds & allergies. Learn how nasal irrigation can help unclog sinuses...
Osteoarthritis (OA): Treatment, Symptoms, Diagnosis
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease affecting both cartilage and bone. Joints most often affected by...
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS): Track and Prevent Symptoms
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) can cause from mood swings, munchies, and more. Learn about the symptoms, causes and treatments of...
Low Back Pain: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Relief
Do you suffer from low back pain? Watch this slideshow to see common triggers of lower back pain and what kind of treatments you...
Pain-Relief Tips for Bumps, Bruises, Sprains, and Strains in Pictures
View this First Aid slideshow on Care and Pain Relief. See how to get pain relief if you've bumped your head, sprained your...
Cold, Fever and Flu Treatment in Children: Medications and Home Remedies
Colds and fevers are some of the most common ailments in children. Learn common cold symptoms, treatment options, over the...
11 Exercises for Lower Back Pain Relief
One of the best low back pain treatments is exercise. Learn more about low back pain exercises--what works, and what doesn't....
Pain Management: 15 Easy Ways to Reduce Chronic Pain
Chronic pain can be a symptom of many conditions, including arthritis, headaches, and others. Comprehensive pain management...
Home Remedies for the Flu or a Cold
Watch this pictures slideshow and learn about home remedies for sick children. Get tips on how to treat a sore throat, cough,...
How to Relieve Sinus Pressure and Pain Naturally
What are sinuses? Sinus pressure and nasal congestion can cause pain and interfere with your daily life. Discover natural...
13 Ways to Relieve Menstrual Cramps
Find medical relief for menstrual cramps and menstrual pain symptoms. Learn how women's daily habits can relieve the discomfort...
Related Disease Conditions
Ankle Pain
Ankle pain is commonly due to a sprain or tendinitis. The severity of ankle sprains ranges from mild (which can resolve within...
Lower Back Pain
There are many causes of back pain. Pain in the low back can relate to the bony lumbar spine, discs between the vertebrae,...
Common Cold
The common cold (viral upper respiratory tract infection) is a contagious illness that may be caused by various viruses. Symptoms...
Elbow Pain
Elbow pain is most often the result of tendinitis, which can affect the inner or outer elbow. Treatment includes ice, rest, and...
Fever
Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not...
Knee Pain
Acute injuries, medical conditions, and chronic use conditions are causes of knee pain. Symptoms and signs that accompany knee...
Osteoarthritis (OA)
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis caused by inflammation, breakdown, and eventual loss of cartilage in the joints. Also...
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS)
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a combination of physical and emotional disturbances that occur after a woman ovulates and ends...
Toothache
A toothache is a pain on or around a tooth. It may be caused by a variety of things from a cavity, abscess, or even sinusitis....
Neck Pain (Cervical Pain)
Neck pain (cervical pain) may be caused by any number of disorders and diseases. Tenderness is another symptom of neck pain....
Arthritis
Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. When joints are inflamed they can develop stiffness, warmth, swelling, redness...
Menstrual Cramps
Menstrual cramps (pain in the belly and pelvic area) are experienced by women as a result of menses. Menstrual cramps are not the...
Heat-Related Illness
Heat-related illness include heat rash, cramps, exhaustion, stroke, and sunburn. Treatment of heat related illnesses depend on...
Heat Exhaustion
Heat exhaustion is a milder form of heat-related illness that can develop after several days of exposure to high temperatures and...
Menstrual Cramps and Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) Medication Guide
Menstrual cramps and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms include abdominal cramping, bloating, a feeling of fullness, abdominal...
Cold, Flu, Allergy Treatments
Before treating a cold, the flu, or allergies with over-the-counter (OTC) medications, it's important to know what's causing the...
Chronic Pain
Chronic pain is pain (an unpleasant sense of discomfort) that persists or progresses over a long period of time. In contrast to...
Abscessed Tooth
An abscessed tooth is an infection within a tooth that has spread to the root. Symptoms of an abscessed tooth may include pain,...
Spider Bites (Common, Black Widow, and Brown Recluse)
Most spiders in the United States are harmless; however, black widow and brown recluse spider bites may need medical treatment....
Pain Management
Pain management and treatment can be simple or complex, according to its cause. There are two basic types of pain, nociceptive...
Foot Pain
Foot pain may be caused by injuries (sprains, strains, bruises, and fractures), diseases (diabetes, Hansen disease, and gout),...
Shoulder and Neck Pain
Shoulder and neck pain may be caused by bursitis, a pinched nerve, whiplash, tendinitis, a herniated disc, or a rotator cuff...
Hip Pain
Arthritis, bursitis, IT band syndrome, fracture, and strain are just some of the causes of hip pain. Associated symptoms and...
Rheumatoid Arthritis vs. Fibromyalgia
Though rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and fibromyalgia have similar symptoms, RA is an autoimmune disease and fibromyalgia is a...
Mastoiditis (Symptoms, Treatment, Cure in Adults and Children
Mastoiditis in children and adults is inflammation and/or infection of the mastoid bone, which is located behind the ear. The...
Labyrinthitis (Inner Ear Inflammation) Symptoms, Causes, Contagious, Treatment Cure
Labyrinthitis is inflammation of the labyrinth (the part of the ear responsible for balance and hearing). Doctors do not know...
Migraine and Stroke (Symptoms, Types, Causes, Treatment)
Migraine headache is a type of headache in which the exact cause is not known; however, they may be inherited, and certain...
Ear Infection Home Treatment
Infections of the outer, middle, and inner ear usually are caused by viruses. Most outer (swimmer's ear) and middle ear...
Inner Ear Infection (Symptoms, Signs, Treatments, Home Remedies)
An inner ear infection or otitis interna is caused by viruses or bacteria and can occur in both adults and children. An inner...
Natural Home Remedies for Sunburn Treatment
There are many natural and home remedies that are used to relieve the symptoms of sunburn. Check out our top 30 tips to cool...
Treatment & Diagnosis
FAQs & Doctor's Views
Pain FAQs
Medications & Supplements
Medications
acetaminophen (Tylenol, Tylenol Arthritis Pain, Tylenol Ext, Little Fevers Children's Fever/Pain)
ibuprofen (Advil, Children's Advil/Motrin, Medipren, Motrin, Nuprin, PediaCare Fever, and others)
Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen, Roxicet, Tylox, Oxycet)
hydrocodone/acetaminophen, Vicodin, Vicodin ES, Vicodin HP, Anexsia, Lortab, Lorcet, Lorcet Plus, No
propoxyphene and acetaminophen, Darvocet A500; Darvocet-N, Wygesic
celecoxib (Celebrex)
hydrocodone and ibuprofen, Vicoprofen
tramadol and acetaminophen, Ultracet
expectorant/decongestant/narcotic antitussive/acetaminophen-oral
pentazocine/acetaminophen - oral, Talacen
isometheptene, acetaminophen, dichloralphenazone - oral, Amidrine, Isocom, Midchlor, Mi
butalbital/acetaminophen - oral, Phrenilin
decongestant/narcotic antitussive/acetaminoph/antihistamine - oral
acetaminophen/phenyltoloxamine-oral, Dologesic, Flextra-650, Novagesic, Rhinoflex, Staflex
butalbital/acetaminophen/caffeine (Esgic, Fioricet)
salicylamide/acetaminophen/phenyltoloxamine - oral, Anabar, Dolorex, Lobac
butalbital/acetaminophen/caffeine (Alagesic LQ, Capacet, Dolgic Plus, Esgic, Fioricet, and Others)
Oxycodone vs. Vicodin (hydrocodone/acetaminophen) for Pain
Ibuprofen vs. Meloxicam (Mobic) for Pain
Ibuprofen (Advil) vs. Naproxen (Aleve): Comparison of Differences
Ibuprofen and Plavix (Side Effects and Interactions)
erenumab (Aimovig)
Subscribe to MedicineNet's General Health Newsletter
By clicking Submit, I agree to the MedicineNet's Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet's subscriptions at any time.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration
You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Medically Reviewed on 12/11/2017
References
REFERENCE: FDA Prescribing Information.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth