Exercise for hip and knee osteoarthritis | Osteopath Bath
src="https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=183870638732846&ev=PageView&noscript=1"
/>
info@alignbodyclinic.co.uk
01225 571084
29 James St W, Bath, BA1 2BT
Home
Practitioners
Treatments
Prices
Feedback
New Patients
Blog
Contact Us
You are here
Home » Exercise for hip and knee osteoarthritis
Exercise for hip and knee osteoarthritis
As well as seeing patients, our osteopath Jay Ruddock is also involved in helping produce evidence summaries to help guide osteopaths towards best practice. Some of you may remember that in 2016 he was part of a team that published a full systematic review looking at spinal manipulation for the treatment of low back pain. Now he has produced an evidence based guideline examining what exercise is of most benefit to people suffering pain in the knees and hips due to osteoarthritis. The main findings of the article are below, however if you want to read the full article you can find it here.
Main findings;
There is strong evidence suggesting that exercise in general can help patients manage the pain of hip and knee osteoarthritis. Nearly any exercise will help if performed regularly.
Appropriate exercise can be prescribed and produce benefits irrespective of age, pain level, and disability.
The best type of exercise is defined as one which a person is likely to adhere to, this means a person's preference, access to facilities and enjoyment of the activity are all important.
If you are not sure what type of exercise may be suitable for you then give us a call and we can assess you, give you a diagnosis and recommend the best course of action, all for £19!
Are you in a lot of pain and want to get better as soon as possible? If so the why not book in for a new patient consultation, with treatment on the day, for £60.
Tweets by AlignBodyClinic
Blog
Could my weight be contributing to my pain?
As part of having an osteopathic consultation usually requires the patient...
Read More
Our Videos
Our Partners
Copyright Notice
Privacy Notice
Terms and Conditions
Website Disclaimer
Feedback
Login
Developed by IRUN Ltd