Ringworm Pictures, Treatment, Symptoms, Home Remedies & Causes
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/skin health center/skin a-z list/ringworm center /ringworm article
Ringworm
Ringworm facts
Is ringworm contagious?
What does the term ringworm mean?
What causes ringworm?
What are the sources of skin fungi?
What are risk factors for ringworm?
What types of ringworm are there? What are ringworm symptoms and signs?
Types of ringworm: tinea corporis and tinea cruris. What are the symptoms?
Types of ringworm: tinea faciei and tinea manus. What are the symptoms?
Types of ringworm: tinea pedis and tinea unguium. What are the symptoms?
What tests do health care professionals use to diagnose ringworm?
What kinds of health care professionals treat ringworm?
What is the treatment for ringworm? Are there home remedies for ringworm?
Is it possible to prevent ringworm?
What is the prognosis (outlook) for ringworm?
Medical Author: Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD
Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD
Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD, is a U.S. board-certified Anatomic Pathologist with subspecialty training in the fields of Experimental and Molecular Pathology. Dr. Stöppler's educational background includes a BA with Highest Distinction from the University of Virginia and an MD from the University of North Carolina. She completed residency training in Anatomic Pathology at Georgetown University followed by subspecialty fellowship training in molecular diagnostics and experimental pathology.
Medical Editor: William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
Dr. Shiel received a Bachelor of Science degree with honors from the University of Notre Dame. There he was involved in research in radiation biology and received the Huisking Scholarship. After graduating from St. Louis University School of Medicine, he completed his Internal Medicine residency and Rheumatology fellowship at the University of California, Irvine. He is board-certified in Internal Medicine and Rheumatology.
Source: MedicineNet
Ringworm facts
Ringworm is a common fungal infection of the skin and is not due to a worm.
The medical term for ringworm is tinea. The skin disease is further named for the site of the body where the infection occurs.
Some types of ringworm infection include tinea corporis, tinea capitis, tinea pedis ("athlete's foot"), and tinea cruris ("jock itch").
Ringworm causes a scaly, crusted rash that may appear as round, red patches on the skin. Other symptoms and signs of ringworm include patches of hair loss or scaling on the scalp, itching, and blister-like lesions.
Ringworm is contagious and can be passed from person to person.
Ringworm can be successfully treated with antifungal medications used either topically or orally.
Catching Ringworm From Pets
Animals can also be affected by ringworm and may transmit the condition to humans. In this case, ringworm is an example of a zoonotic disease, or a disease transmitted from animals to humans. Although cats are affected by ringworm more than dogs, dogs are also commonly affected. In animals, ringworm causes raised, circular areas that frequently are crusted over and associated with hair loss.
Learn how to treat and get rid of ringworm »
Source: CDC
Is ringworm contagious?
Readers Comments 21
Share Your Story
Ringworm occurs in people of all ages, but it is particularly common in children. It occurs most often in warm, moist climates. Ringworm is a contagious disease and can be passed from person to person by contact with infected skin areas or by sharing combs and brushes, other personal care items, or clothing. It is also possible to become infected with ringworm after coming in contact with locker room or pool surfaces. The infection can also affect dogs and cats, and pets may transmit the infection to humans. It is common to have several areas of ringworm at once in different body areas.
Source: Bigstock
What does the term ringworm mean?
The term ringworm or ringworms refers to fungal infections that are on the surface of the skin. The name is derived from the early belief that the infection was due to a worm, which it is not. Ringworm is a fungal infection in the skin. Nevertheless, the name ringworm remains. Some of these fungi produce a rash of round scaly spots on the skin, but many do not. On the other hand, many round, red spots or rashes on the skin are not due to a fungal infection. A physical examination of the affected skin, evaluation of skin scrapings under the microscope, and culture tests can help health care professionals make the appropriate diagnosis and distinctions from other conditions. A proper diagnosis is best for successful treatment.
The medical term for ringworm is tinea. (Tinea is the Latin name for a growing worm.) Health care professionals add another word to indicate the part of the body where the fungus is located. Tinea capitis, for instance, refers to scalp ringworm, tinea corporis to fungus of the body, tinea pedis to fungus of the feet, and so on.
SLIDESHOW
Ringworm: Treatment, Pictures, Causes, and Symptoms See Slideshow
Source: iStock
What causes ringworm?
Although the world is full of yeasts, molds, and fungi, only a few cause skin disease. These agents are called the dermatophytes (which means "skin fungi"). An infection with these fungi is medically known as dermatophytosis. Skin fungi can only live on the dead layer of keratin protein on top of the skin. They rarely invade deeper into the body and cannot live on mucous membranes, such as those in the mouth or vagina.
Scientific names for the most common of the dermatophyte fungi that cause ringworm include Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton interdigitale, and/or Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Microsporum canis, and Epidermophyton floccosum.
Source: iStock
What are the sources of skin fungi?
Some fungi live only on human skin, hair, or nails. Others live on animals and only sometimes are found on human skin. Still others live in the soil. It is often difficult or impossible to identify the source of a particular person's skin fungus. The fungi may spread from person to person (anthropophilic), from animal to person (zoophilic), or from the soil to a person (geophilic).
Heat and moisture help fungi grow and thrive, which makes them more commonly found in skin folds such as those in the groin or between the toes. This also accounts for their reputation as being caught from showers, locker rooms, and swimming pools. This reputation is exaggerated, though, since many people with "jock itch" or "athlete's foot" have not contracted the infection from locker rooms or athletic facilities.
Daily Health News
Two Drugs for Men Up Diabetes Risk
Experimental Blood Thinner
Veggies vs. Steak for Heart
Meals and Heart Attacks
'Bubble Boy' Disease Cure
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Appendectomy
Candida Auris
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Ebola Virus
Hepatitis A
Source: Bigstock
What are risk factors for ringworm?
As described previously, it is possible to acquire ringworm from a variety of places and circumstances. The greatest risk factor is coming in contact with an affected individual. Warm, moist areas are favorable conditions for the growth of fungi, so areas such as communal showers and locker rooms are areas in which transmission is favorable. However, any contact with an infected person or a contaminated surface can cause ringworm infection.
QUESTION
Ringworm is caused by a fungus. See Answer
Source: iStock
What types of ringworm are there? What are ringworm symptoms and signs?
The following are the different types of ringworm, or tinea:
Tinea barbae: Ringworm of the bearded area of the face and neck, with swelling and marked crusting, is often accompanied by itching, sometimes causing the hair to break off. In the days when men went to the barber daily for a shave, tinea barbae was called barber's itch.
Tinea capitis: Ringworm of the scalp commonly affects children, mostly in late childhood or adolescence. This condition may spread in schools. Tinea capitis appears as scalp scaling that is associated with bald spots (in contrast to seborrhea or dandruff, for instance, which do not cause hair loss).
See Related Images
Tinea Capitis
Subscribe to MedicineNet's Skin Care & Conditions Newsletter
By clicking "Submit," I agree to the MedicineNet Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. I also agree to receive emails from MedicineNet and I understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet subscriptions at any time.
Source: iStock
Types of ringworm: tinea corporis and tinea cruris. What are the symptoms?
Tinea corporis: When fungus affects the skin of the body, it often produces the round spots of classic ringworm. The first stage of symptoms involves a red, scaly area of skin that may be slightly raised (plaque). This stage tends to worsen rapidly. The condition progresses to form the characteristic ring shape. Sometimes, these spots have an "active" outer border as they slowly grow and advance. Sometimes, scaling, crusting, raised areas, or even blister-like lesions can appear, particularly in the active border. It is important to distinguish ringworm of the body from other skin conditions, such as nummular eczema. This condition, and others, may appear similar to ringworm, but they are not due to a fungal infection and require different treatment.
See Related Images
Tinea Corporis
Tinea cruris: Tinea of the groin ("jock itch") tends to have a reddish-brown color and extends from the folds of the groin down onto one or both thighs. Other conditions that can mimic tinea cruris include yeast infections, psoriasis, and intertrigo, a chafing rash that results from the skin rubbing against the skin.
IMAGES
Ringworm See pictures of ringworm and other fungal skin infections See Images
Source: Bigstock
Types of ringworm: tinea faciei and tinea manus. What are the symptoms?
Tinea faciei (faciale): ringworm on the face except in the area of the beard. On the face, ringworm is rarely ring shaped. Characteristically, it causes red scaly patches with indistinct edges.
Tinea manus: ringworm involving the hands, particularly the palms and the spaces between the fingers. It typically causes thickening (hyperkeratosis) of these areas, often on only one hand. Tinea manus is a common companion of tinea pedis (ringworm of the feet). It is also called tinea manuum.
See Related Images
Tinea Manus
From
Skin Problems and Treatments Resources
Latest Ways Psoriasis Is Treated
Skin Care for Psoriasis
All About Psoriatic Arthritis
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Source: WebMD
Types of ringworm: tinea pedis and tinea unguium. What are the symptoms?
Tinea pedis: Athlete's foot may cause scaling and inflammation with itching and burning irritation in the toe webs, especially the one between the fourth and fifth toes. Another common form of tinea pedis produces a thickening or scaling of the skin on the heels and soles. This is sometimes referred to as the "moccasin distribution." Occasionally, tinea causes blisters between the toes or on the sole. Aside from athlete's foot, tinea pedis is known as tinea of the foot or, more loosely, fungal infection of the feet. Tinea pedis is an extremely common skin disorder. It is the most common and perhaps the most persistent of the fungal (tinea) infections. It is rare before adolescence. It may occur in association with other fungal skin infections such as tinea cruris (jock itch).
See Related Images
Tinea Pedis
Tinea unguium: Finally, fungal infection can make the fingernails and, more often, the toenails yellow, thick, and crumbly. This is referred to as fungal nails or onychomycosis.
See Related Images
Tinea Unguium
Source: iStock
What tests do health care professionals use to diagnose ringworm?
Readers Comments 3
Share Your Story
Often, the diagnosis of ringworm is obvious from its location and appearance. Otherwise, skin scrapings for microscopic examination and a culture of the affected skin can establish the diagnosis of ringworm. If the diagnosis is unclear, a potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparation of a skin scraping can be reviewed under the microscope to confirm the diagnosis of a fungus. If a fungus infection is present and the skin problem is misdiagnosed, inappropriate treatment might be prescribed that could actually worsen the infection.
What kinds of health care professionals treat ringworm?
Ringworm is treated by primary-care specialists, including internists, pediatricians (for ringworm in a child), and family medicine specialists. Because it is a skin condition, many people also seek medical advice from a dermatologist for ringworm. In rare, complicated ringworm infection, an infectious-disease specialist may be consulted.
Source: MedicineNet
What is the treatment for ringworm? Are there home remedies for ringworm?
Readers Comments 70
Share Your Story
Home remedies cannot cure ringworm. To cure ringworm, it is necessary to take antifungal medications. Ringworm can be treated topically (with external applications) or systemically (for example, with oral medications):
Topical treatment: When fungus affects the skin of the body or the groin, many antifungal creams can clear the condition in around two weeks. Examples of such preparations include those that contain clotrimazole (Cruex cream, Desenex cream, Lotrimin cream, lotion, and solution), miconazole (Monistat-Derm cream), ketoconazole (Nizoral cream), econazole (Spectazole), naftifine (Naftin), and terbinafine (Lamisil cream and solution). These treatments are effective for many cases of foot fungus as well. Many of these antifungal creams are available as over-the-counter preparations. It is usually necessary to use topical medications for at least two weeks. More recently, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the antifungal medication luliconazole (Luzu), the first topical azole antifungal agent with a one-week once-daily treatment regimen for the management of tinea cruris and tinea corporis in adults aged 18 years or older.
Systemic treatment: Some fungal infections do not respond well to external applications. Examples include scalp fungus and fungus of the nails. To penetrate these areas and for particularly severe or extensive disease, oral medications can be used.
For a long time, the only effective antifungal tablet was griseofulvin (Fulvicin, Grifulvin, and Gris-PEG). Now, other agents are available that are both safer and more effective. These include terbinafine, itraconazole (Sporanox), and fluconazole (Diflucan). Oral medications are usually given for a three-month course.
Source: N/A
Is it possible to prevent ringworm?
Conventional wisdom holds that minimizing sweat and moisture can help prevent fungal infections. Common recommendations for ringworm prevention along these lines are for men to wear boxer shorts, for women to avoid pantyhose, and so forth. Whether these measures, some of which are quite difficult to implement, are really worth all of the effort is open to question.
You can also take steps to prevent spread of ringworm infections. Do not share clothing, towels, hairbrushes, combs, hair accessories, sports gear, or other personal-care items. Wearing sandals or shoes in gyms, locker rooms, and at pools can help reduce your chances of contracting athlete's foot. Be sure that your child also wears shoes in locker rooms and around pools. You should avoid touching pets that have signs of ringworm (typically bald spots). Wash hands after touching pets and be sure that a child washes his/her hands after touching pets.
If your pet has ringworm, wear gloves and long sleeves when handling your pet, and vacuum often in areas of the home frequented by your pet. You can disinfect surfaces and bedding by using a solution of diluted chlorine bleach, benzalkonium chloride, or strong detergents. A veterinarian can treat your pet so that the infection can be eradicated.
Source: N/A
What is the prognosis (outlook) for ringworm?
Ringworm can be cured with appropriate treatment. Ringworm of the skin typically resolves after two to three weeks of treatment, while cases of ringworm of the scalp or nails may require treatment for a few months. Complications are rare and can include a secondary bacterial skin infection or a widespread fungal infection (extremely rare and more likely to occur in individuals with suppressed immune systems).
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Ringworm Center
Medically Reviewed on 7/23/2018
References
REFERENCES:
Andrews, Shari. "Tinea in emergency medicine." Medscape.com. Mar. 20, 2017. <http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/787217-overview>.
Lesher Jr., Jack L. "Tinea Corporis." Medscape.com. July 10, 2018. <http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1091473-overview>.
United States. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Ringworm." Aug. 16, 2017. <http://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/ringworm/>.
Related Article
Ringworm: Treatment, Pictures, Causes, and Symptoms
What is ringworm? How do you get rid of ringworm? View ringworm (tinea) pictures and learn about ringworm treatment, causes, symptoms, types, and prevention tips for this fungal skin infection.
Read more: Ringworm: Treatment, Pictures, Causes, and Symptoms
Patient Comments
Ringworm - Effective Treatments
What kinds of treatments have been effective for your ringworm?
Post View 70 Comments
Ringworm - Is it Contagious?
How do you think you caught ringworm?
Post View 21 Comments
Ringworm - Diagnosis
How was your ringworm diagnosed?
Post View 3 Comments
Complete List
Top Ringworm Related Articles
Are Skin Rashes Contagious
Direct and indirect contact can spread some types of rashes from person to person. Rash treatment depends upon a rash's underlying cause. A rash that sheds large amounts of skin warrants urgent medical attention. Rashes can be either contagious or noncontagious. Noncontagious rashes include seborrheic dermatitis, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, stasis dermatitis, psoriasis, nummular eczema, drug eruptions, hives, heat rash (miliaria), and diaper rash. Rashes usually considered contagious include molluscum contagiosum (viral), impetigo (bacterial), herpes (herpes simplex, types 1 and 2 viruses), rash caused by Neisseria meningitides (N. meningitides) (bacterial), rash and blisters that accompany shingles (herpes zoster virus), ringworm (fungal) infections (tinea), scabies (itch mite), chickenpox (viral), measles and rubella (viral), erythema infectiosum (viral), pityriasis rosea (viral), cellulitis and erysipelas (bacterial), lymphangitis (bacterial, and folliculitis (bacterial).
Athlete's Foot
Athlete's foot (tinea pedis) is a skin infection caused by the ringworm fungus. Symptoms include itching, burning, cracking, peeling, and bleeding feet. Treatment involves keeping the feet dry and clean, wearing shoes that can breathe, and using medicated powders to keep your feet dry.
Children's Health
Children's health is focused on the well-being of children from conception through adolescence. There are many aspects of children's health, including growth and development, illnesses, injuries, behavior, mental illness, family health, and community health.
Kids' Illnesses Slideshow
Is your child at risk for these childhood diseases? Know what to look for and when to call the doctor for conditions such as measles, mumps, ringworm, pink eye, strep throat, cough, ear aches, and more.
Fungus Among Us
Protect yourself from different fungal infections like ringworm, athlete's foot, and jock itch. Discover how to treat fungal infections on the foot, hand, skin and everywhere on your body.
Fungal Nails
Fungal nails (onychomycosis) may be caused by many species of fungi, but the most common is Trichophyton rubrum. Distal subungal onychomycosis starts as a discolored area at the nail's corner and slowly spread toward the cuticle. In proximal subungal onychomycosis, the infection starts at the cuticle and spreads toward the nail tip. Yeast onychomycosis is caused by Candida and may be the most common cause of fungal fingernail.
Hair Loss
There are many causes of scalp hair loss. This featured article covers the common ones such as patchy hair loss (alopecia areata, trichotillomania, and tinea capitis), telogen effluvium, and androgenetic alopecia (male-pattern baldness, female-pattern baldness).
Hair Loss Slideshow
Learn about hair loss in women and men. Discover hair loss causes and treatments as well as how to prevent hair loss.
Is Jock Itch (Tinea Cruris) Contagious
Jock itch is a fungal infection in the groin area that causes a raised, itchy, red rash. Jock itch can typically be treated with antifungal medications. People may need to seek medical care for jock itch if the groin area becomes swollen, tender, if red streaks appear, or if the lymph nodes become swollen.
Is Ringworm Contagious
A fungus causes ringworm. Ringworm can be transmitted from person to person. Animals may also spread ringworm. Ringworm causes an itchy, ring-shaped red rash with hair loss. Treatment incorporates the use of topical medication.
Itch
Itching can be a common problem. Itches can be localized or generalized. There are many causes of itching to include: infection (jock itch, vaginal itch), disease (hyperthyroidism, liver or kidney), reactions to drugs, and skin infestations (pubic or body lice). Treatment for itching varies depending on the cause of the itch.
Jock Itch
Jock itch is an itchy red rash that appears in the groin area. The rash may be caused by a bacterial or fungal infection. People with diabetes and those who are obese are more susceptible to developing jock itch. Antifungal shampoos, creams, and pills may be needed to treat fungal jock itch. Bacterial jock itch may be treated with antibacterial soaps and topical and oral antibiotics.
Pet Ringworm Picture
Ringworm is an example of a zoonotic disease (transmitted from animals to humans). See a picture of Pet Ringworm and learn more about the health topic.
Rash
The word "rash" means an outbreak of red bumps on the body. The way people use this term, "a rash" can refer to many different skin conditions. The most common of these are scaly patches of skin and red, itchy bumps or patches all over the place.
Ringworm Slideshow
What is ringworm? How do you get rid of ringworm? View ringworm pictures and learn about ringworm treatment, causes, symptoms, types, and prevention tips for this fungal skin infection.
Is Ringworm Contagious Quiz
Skin Picture Quiz
Could you identify a scabies infestation? Take the Skin Diseases Pictures Quiz and learn to identify common conditions that plague human skin.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth