Top 10 Best Scar Creams of 2017 – Reviews - PEI Magazine
CLOSE
Bizarre
Entertainment & Art
General Knowledge
Lifestyle
Science & Technology
Miscellaneous
Bizarre
Entertainment & Art
General Knowledge
Lifestyle
Science & Technology
Miscellaneous
Miscellaneous
Top Products
Top 10 Best Scar Creams of 2017 – Reviews
Feb 13, 2016
1561
Aimed at reducing the ugly mark that scars leave on the skin, scar creams are extremely popular among people dealing with acne scars and a variety of equally annoying skin issues. You see, it takes patience to treat the variation of marks, discoloration, and pitted scars that some people have to deal with, and apart from invasive medical procedures, scar creams are pretty much the way to go.
Even so, it is very important to know exactly what a particular type of scar cream is formulated to deal with before making any sort of purchase. To help you make the right choice, we put together a list of the ten best scar creams on the market for you to look at.
10Stretch Marks & Scars Cream
This particular cream is formulated to prevent and remove stretch marks caused by pregnancy, surgery, rosacea, acne scars, and blemishes. It does so using an innovative collagen-fix technology containing a collagen-fix skin repair complex aimed at optimizing the skin’s natural repair process while reducing discoloration of the skin. At the same time, it will improve the restoration of your skin’s elasticity using a blend of vitamins and natural moisturizers.
9Scar Cream and Stretch Mark Removal Cream
Aimed at reducing the appearance of fine lines, scars, and stretch marks, this revolutionary cream will also deal with existing already scars at the same time. Furthermore, it will prevent the formation of new scars by improving the elasticity of the skin using vitamins and essential oils to regenerate the skin quickly and efficiently. To do so, it uses shea & cocoa butter along with a non-irritating formula that will not damage sensitive skin in any way.
8Scar Cream 72% ORGANIC – With Arnica Montana + Vitamin E
Due to its high Vitamin C contents, this particular cream will help with your skin’s collagen synthesis, thus helping it recover from any UV damage. At the same time, it will fade away any fresh scars using exceptional moisturizing agents while its organic formula soothes and calms the skin at the same time. Not only that, but it also contains anti-inflammatory ingredients that will relieve you of any pain caused by bruises, aches, or sprains.
7Scar Removal Cream Treatment: Advanced New & Old Scars Remover
This particular cream will diminish scars while restoring your skin’s vitality and elasticity. It does so using a combination of kelp extract, olive leaves, white curcumin, aloe vera, vitamin B3, collagen, and vitamin C. It also gives your skin a rejuvenating skin boost while covering any scars or discoloration you might have. We should also point out that it has a lightweight, soft peel that penetrates the skin quickly, leaving your skin feeling silky smooth and healthy.
6Selevax – Scar Cream for Old and New Scars
This revolutionary scar cream from Selevax is formulated to heal and nourish your skin using 100% all-natural ingredients that won’t affect your skin in any way. At the same time, it will fade away your scars in less than 3 weeks if you use it regularly, a lot faster than most other scar creams on the market. Not only that, but it will do so while moisturizing your skin using natural oils, butters, and a blend of healthy vitamins.
5InstaNatural Scar Cream – Best Removal Treatment for Old & New Scars
InstaNatural’s Scar Cream is one of the few professional-grade scar treatments formulated to penetrate the skin, healing it from within. It does so using a fusion of premium ingredients like almond oil, dimethicone, epidermal growth factors, niacinamide, MSM, and vitamin E, a formula that will undo any damage your skin may have taken, making it look like you never had a scar to begin with.
4InstaNatural Stretch Mark & Scar Cream
This scar removal cream from InstaNatural uses a regu-stretch 3% blend which contains active ingredients like argan oil, vitamin E, jojoba oil, and vitamin C. These ingredients are part of a revolutionary formula intended to prevent the heal existing scars while preventing the appearance of new ones. At the same time, it will hydrate and moisturize the skin while nourishing it using a blend of vitamins intended to help with its natural regeneration.
3Art Naturals Stretch Mark & Scar Removal Cream
Formulated to drastically reduce stretch marks and scars, this natural scar removal cream will revitalize the skin using a blend of herbal infusions like aloe and cocoa butter combined with shea butter. Thanks to its unique formula, it will heal the skin while preventing the appearance of new scars by improving its elasticity. We should also point out that it uses a combination of Vitamin E & B to restore the skin’s pliability and natural tone.
2InstaNatural Scar Gel Cream
This is by far one of InstaNatural’s best scar creams and it’s easy to see why. Not only is it affordable and easy to apply thanks to its creamy texture, but it also contains all-natural ingredients that won’t cause any issues for people with sensitive skin. At the same time, this particular gel is formulated using epidermal growth factors, fucoxanthin, astaxanthin, green tea, and Gotu kola, ingredients that will fortify and restore your skin’s tone.
1Fading Stretch Marks and Scars Cream
Using a popular formula containing organic cocoa butter, shea butter, sunflower seed oil, plant stem cells, organic hemp seed oil, algae extract, green tea leaf extract, and vitamins, this scar cream is bound to deal efficiently with almost any type of scar, stretch mark, or blemishes. It does so while moisturizing the skin from within while helping the skin regenerate its elasticity. Not only that, but thanks to its aloe vera contents, it will hydrate the skin if it was affected by sunburn while nourishing it in order to regain its original tone.
SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
tweet
PEI Staff
You Might Like
30 Excuses to Leave Work Early
Nov 24, 2015
How Long Are Eggs Good For
Jun 20, 2017
Top 10 Most Interesting Facts about Switzerland
Dec 2, 2015
10 Interesting Savant Syndrome Facts
Mar 22, 2016
How Deep Is The Grand Canyon?
Jul 19, 2015
Advertisement
ABOUT US
PEIMAG compiles intriguing informational lists, reviews, top lists on a variety of subjects. The main purpose of PEIMAG is to be educational while entertaining at the same time.
FOLLOW US
Home
About
Submit A List
Contact
Copyright / DMCA
Privacy Policy
© Copyright 2012 - 2017 - PEIMAG Media LLC.
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();