Blog - Benefits of Steam Inhalation
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
CMS Medical First aid supplies and liquid contract manufacturing
Call us now on: 01977 600 743
Tweet
GBP EUR Currency:
(0 item) - £0.00
You have no items in your shopping cart.
My Account
My Wishlist
Blog
View Cart
Checkout
Log In
Search:
Search
Innovative Medical and Healthcare Solutions
My Account
My Wishlist
Blog
View Cart
Checkout
Log In
Home |
Blog |
Benefits of Steam Inhalation
Benefits of Steam Inhalation
Monday, 1 October 2018 09:14:55 Europe/London
The benefits of inhalation (steam therapy)
Steam inhalation is one of the most widely used home remedies to soothe and open the nasal passages and get relief from the symptoms of a cold or sinus infection.
Also called steam therapy, it involves the inhalation of water vapor, sometimes with added oils or salts to help ease cold symptoms ever better. The warm, moist air is thought to work by loosening the mucus in the nasal passages, throat, and lungs. This may relieve symptoms of inflamed, swollen blood vessels in your nasal passages.
The main benefit of breathing in moist, warm steam is that may help ease feelings of irritation and swollen blood vessels in the nasal passages. The moisture may also help thin the mucus in your sinuses, which allows them to empty more easily. This can allow your breathing to return to normal, at least for a short period of time.
Steam inhalation may provide some temporary relief from the symptoms of the common cold, the flu (influenza), sinus infections (infectious sinusitis), bronchitis, nasal allergies.
What oils are beneficial during colds?
Eucalyptus oil, one of the more popular essential oils, is often used to ease congestion and other cold symptoms.
Peppermint Oil can be great aid in relieving fever, headaches, fighting mucous, congestion.
Thyme Oil is said to relieve coughs. It also contains a high level of carvacrol. It may be helpful in eliminating or protecting against viruses and bacteria.
Juniper Berry Oil is most commonly used in natural remedies for sore throat and respiratory infections, fatigue, muscle aches and arthritis. It can also help boost the immune system, help with insomnia and aid with digestion.
Cajeput Oil contains a chemical called cineole. It is used to treat colds, headaches, toothache and tumors; to loosen phlegm so it can be coughed up (as an expectorant); and as a tonic.
Clove Oil is especially good for treating bronchitis, asthma and other respiratory problems because it cools, soothes and has an anti-inflammatory effect. There are a number of ways in which you can use clove oil in your home to boost your respiratory health.
Are Essential Oils Safe?
A key point to understand about essential oils is that they are very concentrated, meaning you only need to use a very small amount to experience results. Essential oils must be used with care and labels must be read carefully so that guidelines are always closely followed. You can find great amount of sources on the topic, for example here: https://draxe.com/essential-oil-safety/
If you do not feel like experimenting with essential oils by yourself you can simply use water inhalation or use one of many products available on the market designed specifically to help relieve cold and flu symptoms, such as CMS Herbal Inhalant Oil, inhalant sticks, vapour rubs etc.
Exlopre article Sources:
https://www.healthline.com/health/steam-inhalation#takeaway
https://www.leaf.tv/articles/how-to-use-clove-oil-in-respiratory-health/
https://www.webmd.com/vitamins/ai/ingredientmono-457/cajeput-oil
https://draxe.com/juniper-berry-essential-oil/
https://www.bulkapothecary.com/blog/essential-oil-benefits/using-peppermint-oil-to-treat-the-common-cold/
Tags:
inhalation
essentsial oils
cold and flu
flu season
wellbeing
Posted By
Edyta Adamowska
Compare Products
You have no items to compare.
The information given on this website, is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you have a medical problem, or are taking prescribed medication, please consult with your own doctor. © 2015 ScrubsUK. All Rights Reserved. CMS Business Park, Station Lane, Featherstone, WF7 6EQ.
loading...
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse this site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here.
x