Pure Copper Magnetic Therapy Bracelet (Arthritis & Joint Pain Relief)
Pro Colloidal Silver – The UK's Leading Colloidal Silver Store " Nature's Best Kept Secret "
Freephone: 0800 975 0510
Your Connection Is Secure (256-Bit SSL)
Shopping Cart
0 item(s) - £0.00
Your shopping cart is empty!
Welcome visitor you can login or create an account.
HomeWish List (0)My AccountView Shopping Cart / Checkout
Browse
Special 2 For 1 Deals
Colloidal Silver
Colloidal Copper / Gold / Zinc
Colloidal Copper (5)
Colloidal Gold (5)
Colloidal Zinc (3)
CS Generators
Nebulisers
CBD Oil
E-Books
Accessories
Categories
Special 2 For 1 Deals (20)
Colloidal Silver (13)
Colloidal Copper / Gold / Zinc (13)
- Colloidal Copper (5)
- Colloidal Gold (5)
- Colloidal Zinc (3)
CS Generators (9)
Nebulisers (1)
CBD Oil (1)
E-Books (4)
Accessories (9)
Home » Accessories » Pure Copper Magnetic Therapy Bracelet (Arthritis & Joint Pain Relief)
Pure Copper Magnetic Therapy Bracelet (Arthritis & Joint Pain Relief)
Brand: Pro Colloidal Silver
Product Code: COPBRCLT
Availability: In Stock
Price: £13.95
Qty: - OR - Add to Wish List
Add to Compare
1 reviews | Write a review
Share
Description Reviews (1)
Wearing copper bracelets for medicinal benefits has a long history, all the way back to ancient Egypt, reports the "Gale Encyclopedia of Alternative Medicine."
The way copper helps reduce joint pain is not fully understood. Copper is essential for the function of a number of antioxidant enzymes, including powerful superoxide dismutase (SOD). It is also involved in vitamin C metabolism and the synthesis of collagen, a structural protein in bones and joints. There is no recommended daily allowance for copper and deficiency is thought to be common, as up to 70 per cent of dietary intake (from seafood, nuts, pulses, wholegrains and vegetables grown in copper-rich soil) is not absorbed in the bowel. Lack of copper reduces activity of SOD and may contribute to the development of inflammatory diseases.
Trace amounts of copper are absorbed through the skin, and in one study of 240 people with rheumatoid arthritis, those wearing copper bracelets had a statistically significant improvement compared with those wearing a placebo. Each copper bracelet lost an average 13mg of copper during the trial.
Another theory is that copper bracelets work through a process known as iontophoresis, in which copper leaches excess sulphates from the body, where they are deposited as a blue-green discolouration on the skin. The efficacy of the bracelets is thought to depend on the level of copper in your body. If deficient, you may benefit. Pure copper bracelets and bracelets combining copper with magnets are definately worth trying for pain relief.
There are thousands of reported cases of benefits from wearing copper bracelets.
Write a review
Your Name:
Your Review:
Note: HTML is not translated!
Rating: Bad Good
Enter the code in the box below:
Continue