Exercise and stress: Get moving to manage stress - Mayo Clinic
Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
This content does not have an English version.
This content does not have an Arabic version.
Search
Request an Appointment
Find a Doctor
Find a Job
Give Now
Log in to Patient Account
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
YouTube
English
Español
Português
العربية
中文
Menu
Search
All Mayo Clinic Topics
Patient Care & Health Info
Overview
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
Quality CareFind out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment.
Departments & Centers
Overview
Doctors & Medical Staff
Medical Departments & Centers
International Services
Research Centers & Programs
About Mayo Clinic
Contact Us
Meet the StaffFind a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now.
Research
Overview
Explore Research Labs
Find Clinical Trials
Research Faculty
Postdoctoral Fellowships
Discovery's Edge Magazine
Search Publications
Training Grant Programs
Research and Clinical TrialsSee how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now.
Education
Overview
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science
Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences
Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine
Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development
Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education
Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences
Alumni Center
Visit Our SchoolsEducators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree.
For Medical Professionals
Overview
Provider Relations
Referring Physician Portal
AskMayoExpert
Video Center
Publications
Continuing Medical Education
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Professional ServicesExplore Mayo Clinic's many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates.
Products & Services
Overview
Health Books
Healthy Living Program
International Advisory Services
Sports Medicine
Licensable Content
Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Mayo Clinic Laboratories
Mayo Clinic Voice Apps
Medical Products and Stores
Giving to Mayo Clinic
Overview
Give Now
Philanthropy in Action
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us to Give
Philanthropy at Mayo ClinicYour support accelerates powerful innovations in patient care, research and education. Give today.
Healthy Lifestyle
Stress management
Print
Sections
Basics
Stress basics
Stress relief
Relaxation techniques
In-Depth
Expert Answers
Expert Blog
Multimedia
Resources
News From Mayo Clinic
What's New
Products and services
Free E-newsletter
Subscribe to Housecall
Our general interest e-newsletter keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics.
Sign up now
Exercise and stress: Get moving to manage stress
Exercise in almost any form can act as a stress reliever. Being active can boost your feel-good endorphins and distract you from daily worries.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
You know that exercise does your body good, but you're too busy and stressed to fit it into your routine. Hold on a second — there's good news when it comes to exercise and stress.
Virtually any form of exercise, from aerobics to yoga, can act as a stress reliever. If you're not an athlete or even if you're out of shape, you can still make a little exercise go a long way toward stress management. Discover the connection between exercise and stress relief — and why exercise should be part of your stress management plan.
Exercise and stress relief
Exercise increases your overall health and your sense of well-being, which puts more pep in your step every day. But exercise also has some direct stress-busting benefits.
It pumps up your endorphins. Physical activity helps bump up the production of your brain's feel-good neurotransmitters, called endorphins. Although this function is often referred to as a runner's high, a rousing game of tennis or a nature hike also can contribute to this same feeling.
It's meditation in motion. After a fast-paced game of racquetball or several laps in the pool, you'll often find that you've forgotten the day's irritations and concentrated only on your body's movements.
As you begin to regularly shed your daily tensions through movement and physical activity, you may find that this focus on a single task, and the resulting energy and optimism, can help you remain calm and clear in everything you do.
It improves your mood. Regular exercise can increase self-confidence, it can relax you, and it can lower the symptoms associated with mild depression and anxiety. Exercise can also improve your sleep, which is often disrupted by stress, depression and anxiety. All of these exercise benefits can ease your stress levels and give you a sense of command over your body and your life.
Put exercise and stress relief to work for you
A successful exercise program begins with a few simple steps.
Consult with your doctor. If you haven't exercised for some time and you have health concerns, you may want to talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise routine.
Walk before you run. Build up your fitness level gradually. Excitement about a new program can lead to overdoing it and possibly even injury.
For most healthy adults, the Department of Health and Human Services recommends getting at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity (such as brisk walking or swimming) or 75 minutes a week of vigorous aerobic activity (such as running). You also can do a combination of moderate and vigorous activity.
Also, incorporate strength training exercises at least twice a week.
Do what you love. Virtually any form of exercise or movement can increase your fitness level while decreasing your stress. The most important thing is to pick an activity that you enjoy. Examples include walking, stair climbing, jogging, bicycling, yoga, tai chi, gardening, weightlifting and swimming.
Pencil it in. Although your schedule may necessitate a morning workout one day and an evening activity the next, carving out some time to move every day helps you make your exercise program an ongoing priority.
Stick with it
Starting an exercise program is just the first step. Here are some tips for sticking with a new routine or reinvigorating a tired workout:
Set SMART goals. Write down SMART goals — specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time-limited goals.
If your primary goal is to reduce stress in your life and recharge your batteries, your specific goals might include committing to walking during your lunch hour three times a week or, if needed, finding a baby sitter to watch your children so that you can slip away to attend a cycling class.
Find a friend. Knowing that someone is waiting for you to show up at the gym or the park can be a powerful incentive. Working out with a friend, co-worker or family member often brings a new level of motivation and commitment to your workouts.
Change up your routine. If you've always been a competitive runner, take a look at other less competitive options that may help with stress reduction, such as Pilates or yoga classes. As an added bonus, these kinder, gentler workouts may enhance your running while also decreasing your stress.
Exercise in increments. Even brief bouts of activity offer benefits. For instance, if you can't fit in one 30-minute walk, try three 10-minute walks instead. Interval training, which entails brief (60 to 90 seconds) bursts of intense activity at almost full effort, is being shown to be a safe, effective and efficient way of gaining many of the benefits of longer duration exercise. What's most important is making regular physical activity part of your lifestyle.
Whatever you do, don't think of exercise as just one more thing on your to-do list. Find an activity you enjoy — whether it's an active tennis match or a meditative meander down to a local park and back — and make it part of your regular routine. Any form of physical activity can help you unwind and become an important part of your approach to easing stress.
Share
Tweet
March 08, 2018
References
Seaward BL. Physical exercise: Flushing out the stress hormones. In: Essentials of Managing Stress. 3rd ed. Sudbury, Mass.: Jones & Bartlett Publishers; 2014.
Sood A. Integrating joyful attention. In: The Mayo Clinic Guide to Stress-Free Living. Cambridge, Mass.: Da Capo Press/Lifelong Books; 2013.
Hegberg NJ, et al. Physical activity and stress resilience: Considering those at-risk for developing mental health problems. Mental Health and Physical Activity. 2015;8:1.
Silverman MN, et al. Biological mechanisms underlying the role of physical fitness in health and resilience. Interface Focus. 2014;4:1.
2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. http://www.health.gov/PAGUIDELINES/guidelines/default.aspx. Accessed March 10, 2015.
Define your goals. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/growingstronger/motivation/define.html. Accessed March 11, 2015.
Laskowski ER (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. March 16, 2015.
Developing an interval training program. ACSM's Health and Fitness Journal. 2014;18:3.
See more In-depth
Products and Services
Book: Mayo Clinic Guide to Stress-Free Living
Book: Mayo Clinic Guide to Pain Relief
See also
Yoga for weight loss?
Massage
Meditation
Meditation Application
Mindfulness exercises
Prenatal yoga
Reduce tension through muscle relaxation
Relaxation techniques
Tai chi: Meditation in motion?
Tai chi
Guided meditation video
Tai chi
Yoga video
Yoga
Show MoreShow Less
Advertisement
Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.
Advertising & Sponsorship
Policy
Opportunities
Ad Choices
Mayo Clinic Marketplace
Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic.
The Mayo Clinic Diet Combo
4 simple steps to a joy-filled life
Live stronger, longer and healthier
Stop osteoporosis in its tracks
FREE TRIAL — Mayo Clinic Health Letter
Other Topics in Patient Care & Health Info
Healthy Lifestyle
Symptoms A-Z
Diseases & Conditions A-Z
Tests & Procedures A-Z
Drugs & Supplements A-Z
Appointments
Patient & Visitor Guide
Billing & Insurance
Patient Online Services
.
ART-20044469
Healthy Lifestyle
Stress management
In-Depth
Exercise and stress Get moving to manage stress
Mayo Clinic Footer
Request Appointment
Give Now
Contact Us
About Mayo Clinic
Employees
Site Map
About This Site
Legal Conditions and Terms
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below.
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Notice of Privacy Practices
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Manage Cookies
Reprint Permissions
A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
HON
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
© 1998-2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.