Music therapy for depression.
Home
About MedWorm
Health News
Specialties
Conditions
Cancers
Infec. Diseases
Procedures
Therapies
Nutrition
Drugs
Vaccines
Management
Training
Countries
any words all words exact phrase advanced  Advanced search can include the following:
• OR operator: |
• NOT operators: - OR !
• phrase search: "breast cancer"
• AND is implied so listing two words without another operator will search for records where both words are present.
• use () to group words together:
eg.(cancer|cancers)(cervical|cervix)!("Squamous cell carcinoma"|SCC)
will return records where either the words 'cancer' or 'cancers' are present, plus the words 'cervical' or 'cervix', but not the phrase 'squamous cell carcinoma' or 'SCC'.
• order operator: word1 << word2 << word3
eg. chronic << (leukemia|leukaemia)
here the word 'chronic' must come somewhere before either the work 'leukemia' or 'leukaemia'.
• search on a specific field using any of the following: @item_headline @item_description @source @author @tags
eg1. @item_headline "kidney cancer" @item_description (trial|trials)
this searches for the phrase 'kidney cancer' in the title as well as either the word 'trial' or 'trials' in description.
eg2. @(item_headline,item_description,tags) heart
this searches for items where the word 'heart' exists in all of the headline, description and tags fields.
eg3. @source "Journal of the American College of Cardiology"
this searches for items where "Journal of the American College of Cardiology" is listed as the source.
news research blogs podcasts video events funding alerts forums clinical trials
Music therapy for depression.
Depression is a highly prevalent mood disorder that is characterised by persistent low mood, diminished interest, and loss of pleasure. Music therapy may be helpful in modulating moods and emotions. An update of the 2008 Cochrane review was needed to improve knowledge on effects of music therapy for depression. 1. To assess effects of music therapy for depression in people of any age compared with treatment as usual (TAU) and psychological, pharmacological, and/or other therapies. 2. To compare effects of different forms of music therapy for people of any age with a diagnosis of depression.
http://cash.libraryservices.nhs.uk/database/?entryid20=66976
Source: Current Awareness Service for Health (CASH) - April 6, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Related Links:
Music Therapy and Dialysis: A Pilot Investigation Into the Effectiveness of Patient-Selected Music Interventions on Physiological, Psychological, and Quality-of-Life Outcomes
Conditions: End Stage Renal Disease; Depression; Anxiety; Major Depressive Disorder; Generalized Anxiety Disorder; Compliance, Patient; Compliance, Medication; Mood; Pain; Energy Supply; Deficiency; Quality of Life; Blood Pressure; Heart Rate Fast Intervention: Behavioral: Music therapy Sponsors: Tulane University; National Kidney Foundation Recruiting
Source: ClinicalTrials.gov - April 24, 2019 Category: Research Source Type: clinical trials
Treatment-Resistant to Antipsychotics: A Resistance to Everything? Psychotherapy in Treatment-Resistant Schizophrenia and Nonaffective Psychosis: A 25-Year Systematic Review and Exploratory Meta-Analysis
Conclusions: CBT, psychosocial intervention, supportive counseling, psychodynamic psychotherapy, and other psychological interventions can be recommended for clinical practice. More studies are needed, especially for non-CBT interventions and for all psychotherapies on negative symptoms.IntroductionSchizophrenia affects approximately 1% of the population, usually starting in adolescence or young adulthood, frequently leading to persistent disability, with a high risk of suicide (8%). Despite the advance in antipsychotics treatment, approximately 30% of patients with schizophrenia show a poor response or no response to anti...
Source: Frontiers in Psychiatry - April 17, 2019 Category: Psychiatry Source Type: research
Benefits of Playing an Instrument for the Brain
You're reading Benefits of Playing an Instrument for the Brain, originally posted on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement. If you're enjoying this, please visit our site for more inspirational articles. Music is something that makes most people really happy. No matter what ethnicity, age or gender you belong to, you certainly love to listen to music. Aside from listening to music, there are other ways on how you can enjoy it. You can take up music lessons and enjoy playing musical instruments. This is something that will not only give you something to do during your free time but can also provide other benefits...
Source: PickTheBrain | Motivation and Self Improvement - April 8, 2019 Category: Consumer Health News Authors: Curtis_Dean Tags: depression happiness meditation better mental health healthy brain music Source Type: blogs
Efficacy of Surah Al-Rehman in Managing Depression in Muslim Women
The objective of the present study was to investigate the efficacy of Surah Al-Rehman for managing depression in Muslim women admitted for treatment of major depressive disorder in a psychiatry ward of a government hospital. It was hyp othesized that women diagnosed with severe depression in the treatment group will have reduced level of depression as compared to control group at post-assessment level. It was further hypothesized that the amount of decrease in depression in treatment group at the post-assessment level will be grea ter as compared to the control group. A purposive sample of 12 female patients diagnosed with...
Source: Journal of Religion and Health - March 26, 2019 Category: Medical Ethics Source Type: research
Effects of Music Therapy in Frail Elderlies: Controlled Crossover Study
Conclusions: MT may improve physical function, depressive mood, and quality of life in frail elderly individuals.Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord Extra 2019;9:87 –99
Source: Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra - March 7, 2019 Category: Geriatrics Source Type: research
The effectiveness of music therapy for individuals with Rett syndrome and their families
ConclusionThe 24-week music therapy program was effective in improving social interaction, communication skills, eye contact, hand function, and reducing seizure frequency among RTT patients. Additionally, music therapy was effective in relieving parenting stress, which may help healthcare providers initiate early intervention strategies that can prevent parenting stress and reduce the risk of depression.
Source: Journal of the Formosan Medical Association - January 20, 2019 Category: General Medicine Source Type: research
The effectiveness of music therapy for individuals with Rett syndrome and their families.
CONCLUSION: The 24-week music therapy program was effective in improving social interaction, communication skills, eye contact, hand function, and reducing seizure frequency among RTT patients. Additionally, music therapy was effective in relieving parenting stress, which may help healthcare providers initiate early intervention strategies that can prevent parenting stress and reduce the risk of depression. PMID: 30670340 [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
Source: J Formos Med Assoc - January 19, 2019 Category: General Medicine Authors: Chou MY, Chang NW, Chen C, Lee WT, Hsin YJ, Siu KK, Chen CJ, Wang LJ, Hung PL Tags: J Formos Med Assoc Source Type: research
A Wee Wiggle in my Journey to Family
You're reading A Wee Wiggle in my Journey to Family, originally posted on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement. If you're enjoying this, please visit our site for more inspirational articles. Many of us have faced depression, struggled with low self-esteem, and other debilitating mental health challenges. My own journey with depression was a result of growing up with a rare blood disorder and being told I could never have children of my own. This completely changed my dreams of what family and life meant. Years later I suffered with a rare soft tissue sarcoma, yet, baffling the best of doctors, I survived. I&rs...
Source: PickTheBrain | Motivation and Self Improvement - December 13, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Authors: donnagrantwilcox Tags: depression featured psychology self improvement best books Donna Grant Wilcox faith family mental health pickthebrain Source Type: blogs
Verbal affordances of active and receptive music therapy methods in major depressive disorder and schizophrenia-spectrum disorder
Publication date: Available online 11 December 2018Source: The Arts in PsychotherapyAuthor(s): Carol LotterAbstractPrevious research on active and receptive music therapy methods mostly reports on response to musical processes and therapeutic impact. Preceding such interests, our study examined qualitatively the verbal affordances during a course of eight individual music therapy sessions among twenty participants with a major depressive disorder or a schizophrenia-spectrum psychotic disorder. Audio-video recordings of 131 sessions were transcribed verbatim and subjected to thematic analysis, following which comparisons fo...
Source: Arts in Psychotherapy - December 11, 2018 Category: Psychiatry & Psychology Source Type: research
Non-pharmacological interventions for agitation/aggressive behaviour in patients with dementia: a randomized controlled crossover trial.
Authors: Dimitriou TD, Verykouki E, Papatriantafyllou J, Konsta A, Kazis D, Tsolaki M Abstract Agitation/aggressive behaviour is a common behavioural and psychological symptom in people with dementia (PwD), occurring with a frequency of between 13-50.4% according to recent studies, and the rate increases as the severity of cognitive decline increases. The burden on caregivers is considerable. This trial is a randomized controlled crossover trial conducted in Greece. The following measures were used: the Mini-Mental State Examination, Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination Revised, Geriatric Depression Scale, Functiona...
Source: Functional Neurology - November 22, 2018 Category: Neurology Tags: Funct Neurol Source Type: research
More News: Depression | Health | Music Therapy | Psychology
MedWorm Privacy Policy Disclaimer Copyright © MedWorm 2006-2019