Stress Hack: Music Therapy Helps Mental Health | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Error
Please try again later.
Save
top
Everyday Health Emotional Health Stress
Stress Hack: Music Therapy Helps Relieve Anxiety, Depression, and Stress Symptoms
Our writer riffs on what she’s learned from creative art therapy.
By Calley Nelson
Last Updated: 10/16/2018
Don't Miss This
Schizoaffective Disorder: 'My Brain Center Was Literally Broken'
Health Events That Trigger PTSD
%title
Sign Up for Our Healthy Living Newsletter
Thanks for signing up! You might also like these other newsletters:
Sign up for more FREE Everyday Health newsletters.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Sign up
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Oops! Please select a newsletter
We respect your privacy.
Can you bang out feelings of anxiety? Absolutely, says the author.
iStock
I’m no stranger to talk therapy. I’ve seen a few different therapists, and I’ve told them varying degrees about my life and my struggles with anxiety and depression, both of which run in my family.
Have You Ever Gone to a Therapy Session Only to Feel Worse Later?
Having therapy as an outlet is helpful, but there have been a couple of times when I left my traditional talk therapy sessions feeling worse than I did when I walked through the door. Talk therapy (aka psychotherapy) can bring up a lot of emotions, and especially if you are someone with anxiety, it gets stressful when you realize an hour has passed and the session is over.
Some days after talk therapy I felt more anxious than I did before the session. I would take the train home and barricade myself in my Chicago apartment and either write like a fiend or clean the whole apartment in order to place my nerves. The anxiety would build until I grew exhausted and spiraled into a depression on the kitchen or bathroom floor, pressing a hot and sore forehead into the cold tile, wishing the panic I felt would evaporate.
Yep, that’s textbook for manic depression. And at that point in time, I was also highly insecure about my life and where I was headed, which made my panic attacks that much worse.
RELATED: 6 Depression Symptoms You Shouldn’t Ignore
Where Should Anxious Energy Go?
In those days, I didn’t know how to best place my anxiety in a way that was productive and helpful, though I thought it was. I figured, Writing is good for me and so is cleaning, right? These things should make me feel better. I kept operating on the highest speed, fussing over my environment or writing down all the negative thoughts that were spinning inside me, but that didn’t offer much relief, and I grew more and more frustrated.
At that time, my doctor had prescribed me Xanax (alprazolam) for these occasions. I had just finished college at 20 and had no idea what the hell I was doing or how I was going to make my rent as a writer in Chicago.
After working as a fact-checker at a magazine for eight abysmal contracted months, I nailed my first full-time job and — thank God — my own health insurance. In addition to my therapist, I started seeing a psychiatrist who put me on a low dose of Prozac (fluoxetine) to treat generalized anxiety disorder and Welbutrin (buproprion) to treat chronic major depressive disorder. Many of my symptoms — including full-body hives, phantom itching, suicidal thoughts, and panic attacks — gradually subsided over the next couple of years.
However, I was aware how differently the medication made me feel, and though it helped my symptoms, I knew the depression and anxiety were still inside me. I wasn’t looking at why I was feeling these things; I just wanted them to stop. Sometimes I would have breakthrough episodes. They still happen, but they are never as often or severe as they were in that period right after college.
What Do You Do With the Nervous Energy That Comes Out in Therapy?
The answer might be in art therapy practices, music therapy in particular. You don’t have to have the words to describe how you’re feeling. Instead, you can hit a drum or a finger piano, shake a maraca or your hips, strum a bass guitar, and find your groove.
For me, music therapy is play therapy, a way to connect with my inner child, that person who wants to express, and it doesn’t matter if it sounds good because me and my therapist are the only people in the room.
I’ve had tightness in my throat for years. During college, I thought I was allergic to something, and when I felt the muscles in my neck seize, I panicked, thinking that I was going through an allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis.
Turns out the tight throat was a different type of symptom. I was "allergic" to stress, and it was largely my own doing, mostly from perfectionist tendencies and the fear I felt when reading my work out loud in class (social anxiety, anyone?).
RELATED: Creative Living With Rheumatoid Arthritis: It’s the Path to Successful Coping
It comes back once in a while, and since I’m not taking medication anymore, I have to find ways to calm myself down when I do feel the physical symptoms of anxiety.
“Have you ever tried singing?” My music therapist asked me during one of our sessions.
“No,” I replied sheepishly. The last thing I wanted to do when I felt the anxious squeeze was to sing. Sometimes my throat got so tight that I didn’t think I could speak, let alone sing.
Then my therapist played a couple random chords on a keyboard and asked me to hum and sing along, whatever I felt like singing, and in a neutral way that included absolutely no judgement. She harmonized with me, which made me feel more comfortable, and soon I was belting out notes with a vibrato I didn’t know I had. Something deep inside my belly was resonating with my anxiety and opening up my throat. What once felt like an 8 on the throat tightness scale felt like a 4.
Now, when my throat feels tight, I try to hum or sing. Placing anxiety into a physical place before my body tries to do it itself tends to help me. I do try to hit the gym a few days a week, but sometimes, as a freelancer, obligation calls, and I take a break to turn on some music and just belt it out, even though it feels a little goofy.
RELATED: How Music Therapy Can Relieve Depression
Everyone has a history with music, sometimes a tough one. In music therapy, you work through that, too.
Music brings stuff up that you thought you dealt with. Memories resurface, and you’re like, Wait, is that really still affecting me?
I never felt like music was really mine. I thought that I had to be practiced or trained. I'd had boyfriends who were musicians. I adored them because they acted so carefree, yet they were so serious about their music. I wanted to express myself fully like them and have the right knowledge to do it. I played bass in a band in college very briefly, but I felt constricted by the boys I played with — that everything I did had to fit within what they had already created. Instead, I wrote music reviews, and that’s how I really got my start as a journalist. I felt as if I was on the outside of the music, always on the periphery.
I worked through that, too, first by signing up for bass lessons after college when I could afford them, next through music therapy. That’s when I really started to dig into this love quadrangle: me, my anxiety, my depression, my art (music included).
In therapy sessions, we listened to Dave Matthews, music that I grew up listening to with my sisters and mom in her 2001 tan minivan. We talked about the scene in the film Lady Bird when Saoirse Ronan’s character yells at her date after he insults the Dave Mathews Band's 1996 hit single “Crash Into Me” in the car on the way to prom. (Spoiler alert: She ends up slamming the door and heading to her best friend’s house to hang out with her instead of going to prom.) I cried hard at that scene in the theater (I had just moved to New York and was feeling homesick for my friends in Chicago and my family in Columbus), and I cried just as hard retelling it to my therapist.
We also talked about my experience this summer seeing Kim Gordon’s band Body/Head in San Francisco, and we listened to a track from their recent album. I’ve idolized Kim Gordon since I was 13, when she was Sonic Youth’s bassist. At this show at San Francisco’s experimental art venue The Lab, she was standing right in front of me, swaying her hips, the strings of her guitar resonating with me as if she were plucking my own ligaments. To me, she’s the queen of improvisation, noise rock, and doing what feels good. The experience I had watching her was transcendent, and I was able to share that fully with my music therapist, who listened to Kim Gordon with me and gave me the space to cry and to profess my love to a rock god whose music stood by me through my battles with anxiety and depression as a teen and young adult into a healthy and productive 23-year-old person.
It’s hard to believe how timid I felt when I first started music therapy. In March, I could barely hit a drum, and just a few months later, I can spend half an hour pounding my heart out.
Now I feel that music is mine.
Music is everyone’s, and through it we can better understand our stories, anxieties, and depressions.
If we can successfully place our worries into sound, perhaps we can release them.
How to Feel It for Yourself: Music Therapist Locators
If you're anything like the people surveyed for the USOS stress report story, you might benefit from a new therapeutic outlet. To connect with a local music therapist, try searching the databases that these organizations maintain. You may also want to search your health insurance provider’s database for a selection of in-network music therapists. I hope that you find music or art therapy as helpful as I have.
American Music Therapy Association
American Art Therapy Association
Certification Board for Music Therapists
The Latest in Stress
Stress
New HBO Documentary Explores Stress in America
Dr. Sanjay Gupta investigates rising mortality rates in an increasingly stressed-out nation.
Stress
Queen Latifah’s Top 5 Tips for Reducing Stress
Everyday Health sits down with the actress and rapper to talk about happiness, health, and finding balance.
Stress
What's Your Financial Personality Type?
Stress
Amit Sood, MD: Q&A About Finding Resilience to Chronic Stress Through Neuroscience
The creator of Mayo Clinic’s Resilient Mind is taking his program global, promoting well-being using gratitude, noticing novelty, not trying to improv...
Stress
Michael Phelps’s Favorite De-Stress Technique Is So Simple, Anyone Can Do It
It even works for his two-year-old son.
Stress
Racism’s Chronic Stress Effects Start Early in Children, Study Finds
Following 7-year-olds, researchers also see protective power of positive racial or ethnic group identity in building resilience.
Stress
Mental Health Experts Warn of Midterm Election Stress in Young People
Study finds 2016 presidential election caused distress for many college students, and clinicians offer tips to reduce stress in the current election s...
Stress
Is the Netflix Series ‘The Haunting of Hill House’ So Scary That It’s Making People Sick?
Some viewers reported nausea and fainting. Vasovagal syncope may be the reason.
Stress
Stress Can Shrink Your Brain, Study Says
High levels of cortisol can take a toll on memory function and brain volume as early as your forties.
Stress
What's Your Stress Personality?
Take our 3-minute test to find out your stress type.
Stress
Careworn by Caregiving: A Population at Risk From Chronic Stress
Increasing numbers of millennial caregivers are among those at risk from long-term chronic stress. But there’s help to protect their well-being.
Stress
Can Being Stressed Cause Type 2 Diabetes?
Stress is one of many factors that affect our biology and behavior — and ultimately our health.
Stress
Here’s How Stress and Inflammation Are Linked
Research shows that stress can cause inflammation in the body, leading to a number of chronic health conditions. Find out what to do about it.
Stress
6 Natural Fixes for Stress-Related Symptoms and Conditions
When chronic stress triggers headaches, back pain, or other common symptoms, you can ease discomfort with these evidence-based remedies.
Stress
How Stress Affects Digestion
Stress can cause a range of gastrointestinal problems including cramping, bloating, inflammation, and a loss of appetite. Find out how to keep stress ...
Stress
What Is Financial Wellness?
Setting and meeting financial expectations can improve your general well-being.
Stress
Financial Stress and Wellness: Understanding the Problem
Money-related worries top the list of respondents’ concerns in Everyday Health’s United States of Stress survey.
Stress
How Do You Achieve Financial Well-Being?
Small steps can address stress by helping you achieve near- and long-term goals.
Stress
You Say Chocolate Relieves Your Stress? Now Science Provides Some Backup
Two small studies out of Loma Linda University point to high-cacao dark chocolate improving mood, inflammation, memory, immunity, and alleviating stre...
Stress
Why Are College Kids So Lonely?
Studies suggest that college-aged young people experience high levels of social isolation — even when they’re surrounded by other people. And actually...
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.