Burns and scalds - children - Better Health Channel
Please enable JavaScript in order to get the best experience when using this site.
Site Navigation
Page Content
Menu
Caret
Health.vic
Victoria's hub for health services and business
DHHS
A gateway to the strategies, policies, programs and services delivered by the Department of Health & Human Services.
Seniors Online
Victorian government portal for older people, with information about government and community services and programs.
Show search toolbar
Contrast Sign Up Login
Search
Type a minimum of three characters then press UP or DOWN on the keyboard to navigate the autocompleted search results
Navigation
Home Close Menu
Conversation-Going-travelling
Conditions and treatments
Conditions and treatments
Allergies
Allergies
Allergic reaction to packaged food
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Behavioural conditions
Birth defects
Blood and blood vessels
Bones muscles and joints
Bones muscles and joints
Foot care - podiatrists
Brain and nerves
Cancer
Complementary and alternative care
Dementia
Healthy living
Healthy living
Alcohol
Babies and toddlers (0-3)
Children (4-12)
Drugs and addictive behaviours
Environmental health
Family Violence
Older people in hospital – Get well soon
Health checks
Healthy Eating
Healthy Eating
Nutrition for life
Healthy mind
Healthy pregnancy
Immunisation
Services and support
Services and support
Aged care services
Alcohol and drug services
LGBTI support
Carers, caring and respite care services
Child, family and relationship services
Disability services
Emergency, crisis and support services
End of life and palliative care services
Hospitals, surgery and procedures
Mental health services
Planning and coordinating healthcare
Pregnancy and birth services
A-Z
A-Z
Conditions and treatments
Healthy living
Services and support
Videos
Service profiles
Blog
Blog
Blog authors
Topics
Podcast
Podcast
Influenza - Dr Brett Sutton & Prof Kanta Subbarao
Trauma - Anne Leadbeater OAM & Dr Rob Gordon
template
Other sites
Health.vic DHHS Seniors Online
Sitemap
My Health Life
Facebook
Googleplus
Twitter
Youtube
Rss
Conditions and treatments
Healthy living
Services and support
A-Z
Blog
Podcast
Back to Skin
Home
Conditions and treatments
Skin
Burns and scalds - children
Burns and scalds - children
Share (show more)
Download PDF
Listen (show more)
Listen
More (show more)
Email
Print
Tags:
Skin
Skin - Burns, sores and infections
First Aid
First Aid - Burns, breaks and falls
Summary
Keep hot drinks and pot handles out of reach.
Never leave children alone in the bathroom or kitchen.
If a child is burned, apply immediate first aid. Dial triple zero (000) for an ambulance if the injury is severe.
Do not use butter, oils or ice to treat burns.
The best way to prevent scalds in the bathroom is to reduce the temperature of the hot tap water at the basin, bath and shower to 50 ºC. By law, all new hot water systems now have this setting.
The maximum bathing temperature recommended for young children is 37 to 38 ºC.>
Children are curious and like to explore their surroundings. They don’t know that hot water and hot drinks can cause burns. A child’s sensitive skin burns far more easily than adult skin. Burns and scalds are a major cause of serious injury in children from newborn to 14 years old. Children under four years, especially those aged between one and two years are most at risk due to their increased mobility and natural curiosity.
A severe scald can inflict a serious injury and may mean a long stay in hospital. It may also require painful skin grafts and years of treatment, and can result in permanent scarring. A severe scald over a large skin area can cause death.
Causes of scalds
Scalds are burns from hot liquids or steam. Any hot substances can scald a child. Treat all hot things as if they are as dangerous as fire. In fact, everyday items used in and around the house cause the most scald injuries.
These include:
hot drinks such as cups of tea and coffee
water from saucepans, kettles, jugs, billies, urns and thermoses
hot food solids and saucepans of hot liquid
coal ashes
friction burns – for example, treadmills
running hot -- water from taps, showers and bath water
lighters and matches
fat and hot cooking oil
steam and vapour.
Times when injuries are likely to happen
Children are most at risk when you are:
in a hurry, under a lot of pressure, busy or have too many things going on at the same time
entertaining
not feeling well
distracted
tired, or when your child is tired
away from home, visiting friends or family, or on holiday and out of routine.
A change of routine can help
Perhaps this is the time to skip unnecessary jobs or to change your routine. Suggestions include:
Avoid the high demands of families between 4 pm and 7 pm by feeding a hungry toddler their main meal at midday and serving something light that you don’t need to cook in the early evening.
Arrange for the rest of the family to eat a later meal, once your toddler is safely in bed.
Prepare the evening meal earlier in the day when you are less likely to be distracted by competing family demands.
Occasionally, give your baby a wipe instead of a bath if you don’t have the time to stay beside them. Alternatively, bath your baby earlier in the day.
Bathroom safety
The bathroom is one of the most hazardous rooms in the house for a baby or child. Scalds and burns can occur here, as well as falls and drowning. Most hot tap water scalds occur in the bathroom.
There are a number of ways to protect your child against serious injury in the bathroom. Some suggestions include:
Use a bath thermometer to make sure the bath’s water is always a safe and comfortable temperature. The recommended maximum water temperature for bathing young children is between 37 ºC and 38 ºC.
A soft bath spout cover and non-slip suction mini bath mats can help prevent falls in the bath.
Keep the bathroom door closed when not in use. You may wish to put a lock or restraint on the outside of the bathroom door (out of reach of children, but accessible to adults in case of emergency).
Always remain within arm’s reach of children in the bath.
Take the child with you if you have to answer the door or telephone.
When hot water is too hot
The average temperature of domestic hot water is 70 ºC. A much safer temperature for domestic hot water is 50 ºC. This is because water at a lower temperature takes longer to cause injury. For example:
At 60 ºC, it takes one second for hot water to cause third-degree burns.
At 55 ºC, it takes 10 seconds for hot water to cause third-degree burns.
At 50 ºC, it takes five minutes for hot water to cause third-degree burns.
Turn your hot water down
To reduce the risk of injury to your child from hot water scalds, install a recommended device to control bathroom hot water to a maximum of 50 °C. Options include:
Tempering valves – these are fitted to the water pipeline and mix hot and cold water to a specific temperature, adjustable between 35 ºC and 50 ºC.
Hot water shutdown devices – these are fitted to the end of a tap and automatically cut off water flow once the water reaches the pre-set temperature.
By law, all new hot water systems are now required to comply with the Victorian plumbing regulations, which limit hot tap water to no more than 50 °C in bathrooms at the basin, bath and shower in new houses and new renovations. The only exceptions to this are premises intended for children and the elderly, such as early childhood centres, schools and nursing homes. These have a temperature limit of 45 ºC.
Remember that the maximum bathing temperature recommended for young children is between 37 ºC and 38 ºC, so cold water still needs to be mixed with water from the hot tap.
Kitchen safety
Some simple steps you can take to prevent scalds in the kitchen include:
Never leave cooking unattended.
Always supervise your children in the kitchen.
Keep hot drinks and handles out of reach.
Put a baby down when drinking something hot.
Use non-slip place mats instead of tablecloths.
Turn handles of saucepans in towards the back of the stove, out of reach of small children.
Keep hot drinks away from the edge of the table or bench. You never know when the baby will be able to reach or when a crawling infant will start to toddle. Make it a habit from the moment they are born to keep hot drinks out of their reach.
Never carry hot drinks while children are playing underfoot. Make sure your care extends outside your home, when visiting relatives and friends or attending playgroups.
Use a cordless kettle to prevent a child pulling over the kettle, or make sure cords are well away from the edge. Empty any unused water out of the kettle after boiling.
Use the back hotplates on the stove before using the front ones.
Give toddlers their own special mug so they don’t drink from an adult mug or cup, which may contain liquid that is too hot.
Carry plates to pots, not pots to plates.
It is safer to serve cold drinks when children are present and to have a tea break when toddlers are sleeping.
Your toddler may be safer in the playpen or in the highchair for a short time when you are very busy in the kitchen, or you could use a child safety gate.
First aid advice for burns
Stop the burning process, while considering your own safety by:
If on fire – stop-drop-cover and roll.
If electrical – turn off current.
If chemical – remove the burning agent and irrigate with water.
Immediate first aid will reduce the severity of a burn. If someone has received a burn, you should:
Apply cool running water (not ice or iced water) to the burn for at least 20 to 30 minutes (useful for up to three hours after the burn).
Carefully remove wet clothing only if the skin is not blistered or stuck to the clothing.
Remove all jewellery and watches. Burns cause swelling and it may hinder circulation.
Cover the burn using a clean dressing, a clean sheet, non-fluffy towel/tea towel or cling film.
If the burn is severe or spread over a large area, keep the child warm and calm, and dial triple zero (000) to call an ambulance.
Burns that involve the face, hands, feet, genitals or bottom, or if the burnt area is larger than a twenty-cent piece, should be seen by a doctor as soon as possible.
What not to do for burns and scalds
If a child is burned, there are a few things you should not do, including:
Never use butter, oils or ointments to cover the burn, as they may retain the heat.
Never use ice. Children can be dangerously chilled in ice water.
Home safety and first aid advice
The Royal Children’s Hospital Community Information team (formerly Safety Centre) in Melbourne holds first aid courses for the public. The six-hour paediatric emergency care course is particularly helpful for parents, grandparents, nannies and childcare providers. You can also contact the Community Information telephone line on (03) 9345 5085 for advice plans and safety products to reduce the risk of burn injuries in your home.
Where to get help
The Community Information (formerly Safety Centre) telephone line, The Royal Children’s Hospital Tel. (03) 9345 5085
Kids Health Info Bookshop , The Royal Children’s Hospital Tel. (03) 9345 6429 to buy safety products
Hardware and bathroom suppliers
A qualified plumber or gasfitter
Things to remember
Keep hot drinks and pot handles out of reach.
Never leave children alone in the bathroom or kitchen.
If a child is burned, apply immediate first aid. Dial triple zero (000) for an ambulance if the injury is severe.
Do not use butter, oils or ice to treat burns.
The best way to prevent scalds in the bathroom is to reduce the temperature of the hot tap water at the basin, bath and shower to 50 ºC. By law, all new hot water systems now have this setting.
The maximum bathing temperature recommended for young children is 37 to 38 ºC.
References
Safety at home, 2007, The Royal Children’s Hospital, Safety Centre, Melbourne. More information here.
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
1/4 How would you rate this website?
Excellent
Good
Average
Fair
Poor
Next Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
Please note that we cannot answer personal medical queries.
If you are looking for health or medical advice we recommend that you:
talk to your doctor or pharmacist
dial triple zero (000) in an emergency
ring NURSE-ON-CALL Tel. 1300 60 60 24.
2/4 Your Comments
Tell us who you are Select an option Health consumer Health professional Others
Enter your comments below (optional)
Next Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
3/4 Questions
What are you here to do? Looking for information on Improving general health and wellbeing Better relationships A specific health condition and its treatment Children’s health Food, nutrition and healthy recipes Medication Exercise or fitness Others
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
Next Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
4/4 Your details
Postcode
Email Address
Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Thank you. Your feedback has been successfully sent.
More information
Skin
The following content is displayed as Tabs. Once you have activated a link navigate to the end of the list to view its associated content. The activated link is defined as Active Tab
Skin basics
Skin cancer
Skin health
Skin conditions
Skin irritations
Burns, sores and infections
Skin changes
Skin basics
Birthmarks
In most cases, we do not know what causes birthmarks. Most are harmless, happen by chance and are not caused by anything the mother did wrong in pregnancy...
Blushing and flushing
Severe blushing can make it difficult for the person to feel comfortable in social or professional situations...
Skin explained
The skin is a good indicator of health - if someone is sick, it often shows in their skin...
Sweat
Sweat's main function is to control body temperature...
Wounds - how to care for them
Chronic wounds are more likely to heal if they are treated with moist rather than dry dressings...
Wrinkles
Sun exposure, smoking and ageing are the main causes of wrinkles...
Skin cancer
Melanoma
If untreated, melanomas can spread to other parts of the body and may be fatal...
Skin cancer
Check all of your skin, not just sun-exposed areas. If you notice anything unusual, including any change in shape, colour or size of a spot, or the development of a spot, visit your doctor as soon as...
Skin cancer - children
Encourage your child to be SunSmart ? whatever their age...
Skin cancer - protecting outdoor workers
People who work outdoors are in one of the highest risk groups for skin cancer...
Skin cancer - risk factors
The major cause of skin cancer is over exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun or other sources, such as solariums...
Skin cancer - tanning
A suntan is a sign of skin damage ? there is no such thing as a 'safe' tan...
Skin health
Healthy ageing - the skin
Many age-related skin changes can be reduced with healthy lifestyle choices and good skin care...
Stretch marks
Over time, stretch marks lose their bright colouring and become silvery, shimmering lines...
Sunburn
Even mild sunburn can cause permanent skin damage and may increase your risk of skin cancer...
Sun protection in the snow
Winter activities such as snow skiing or snowboarding pose a high risk of sunburn...
Skin conditions
Acne
Acne is common and can make people of all ages feel embarrassed, but treatments can help if acne is causing distress...
Bowen's disease
Bowen's disease produces persistent red scaly patches on the skin that are neither sore nor itchy...
Eczema (atopic dermatitis)
Eczema can vary in severity, and symptoms may flare up or subside from day to day...
Erythema nodosum
Erythema nodosum appears as red tender lumps, most commonly on the shins...
Leprosy (Hansen’s disease)
Once a person with leprosy begins treatment they quickly become non-infectious...
McCune-Albright syndrome
The severity of symptoms or how a child with McCune-Albright syndrome will be affected throughout life is difficult to predict...
Psoriasis
There is no cure for psoriasis, but it can be well controlled with treatment...
Raynaud's phenomenon
Raynaud's phenomenon can be a sign of a more serious underlying condition, so see your doctor if you experience it...
Rosacea
In men, severe rosacea can cause the nose to become reddened and enlarged (rhinophyma)...
Scleroderma
The most common symptom of scleroderma is a thickening and hardening of the skin, particularly of the hands and face...
Tinea
Tinea is contagious and can be spread by skin-to-skin contact or indirectly through towels, clothes or floors...
Skin irritations
Bedbugs
Bedbugs have highly developed mouth parts that can pierce skin...
Bites and stings – first aid
If you are bitten or stung by an insect or animal, apply first aid and seek medical treatment as soon as possible...
Cradle cap
Cradle cap is not contagious and it is not caused by poor hygiene or bad parenting...
Dandruff and itching scalp
Itching scalp can be caused by a number of conditions, including dandruff, seborrhoeic dermatitis and psoriasis...
Fleas
Fleas are parasites that feed off the blood of humans and animals, and can spread infection...
Hives
Hives (urticaria) is a reaction to the release of histamine into the skin...
Nappy rash
Most babies get nappy rash at some stage, no matter how well they are cared for...
Scabies
If you have scabies, your sexual partners and all members of your household will also need to be treated...
Burns, sores and infections
Bites and stings – first aid
If you are bitten or stung by an insect or animal, apply first aid and seek medical treatment as soon as possible...
Blisters
A blister is one of the body's responses to injury or friction...
Boils
Some areas of the body are more susceptible to boils, including the face, throat, armpits, groin and buttocks...
Burns and scalds
Immediate first aid for all burns is to hold the burn under cool running water for at least 20 minutes...
Burns and scalds - children
Most hot tap water scald injuries to children happen in the bathroom...
Buruli ulcer
Since the ulcer gets bigger with time, early diagnosis and prompt treatment of Bairnsdale disease can keep skin loss to a minimum...
Cellulitis
Cellulitis is a bacterial infection of the skin that occurs most commonly on the lower legs and in areas where the skin is damaged or inflamed...
Chilblains
The symptoms of chilblains are made worse with sudden temperature changes...
Cold sores
Cold sores are blisters around the mouth and nose, caused by the herpes simplex virus...
Cysts
Cysts may be as small as a blister or large enough to hold litres of fluid...
Frostbite
Exhaustion, hunger and dehydration further lower the body's defences against frostbite...
Impetigo - school sores
Impetigo, or school sores, is a highly contagious skin infection that commonly affects school-aged children...
Leg ulcers
Age, varicose veins, smoking and arterial disease increase the risk of leg ulcers...
Molluscum contagiosum
Molluscum contagiosum can be mistaken for genital warts or pimples, check with your doctor for an accurate diagnosis...
Pityriasis rosea
Generally, pityriasis rosea is a one-off event - once it has gone, the rash doesn?t reappear...
Pressure sores
Pressure sores can be difficult to treat and may lead to serious complications...
Shingles
Shingles is caused by the same virus responsible for chickenpox...
Skin cuts and abrasions
The body begins repairing a wound immediately and the process may continue for days, weeks, months or even years...
Tinea
Tinea is contagious and can be spread by skin-to-skin contact or indirectly through towels, clothes or floors...
Warts
Warts can be stubborn, so you may need to use more than one type of treatment...
Skin changes
Cosmetic surgery
Cosmetic surgery carries risks and, in some cases, the results are not what you may anticipate...
Home tattooing
Home tattooing, or getting tattoos overseas, puts you at risk of serious complications that can be debilitating and life-long...
Piercings
If you want to have your body pierced, choose an experienced, registered practitioner to reduce the risks of infection and scarring...
Tattoos
If you want to get a tattoo, choose an experienced, registered practitioner to reduce the risks of infection and scarring...
Related Information
No Jab No Play
No Jab No Play – from 1 January 2016, all parents/guardians seeking to enrol their child at an early childhood service in Victoria must provide evidence that the child is fully immunised for their age...
A Healthy Start to School
A Healthy Start to School – a guide for parents of children in their foundation year of school...
Asthma explained
Asthma cannot be cured, but with good management people with asthma can lead normal, active lives...
A Healthy Start to School
A Healthy Start to School – a guide for parents of children in their foundation year of school...
Animals and child safety
Children should always be closely supervised near animals and taught how to behave safely around pets...
Home
Related information on other websites
Child and Youth Health SA - First aid - burns.
The Child Health & Safety Resource Centre (CHAS) Melbourne - Parenting Books and Home Safety Products.
The Royal Children’s Hospital, Safety Centre, Melbourne - Fire Safety,
The Royal Children’s Hospital, Safety Centre, Melbourne - First Aid Training.
Support Groups
CFA - Early Fire Safe
Content Partner
This page has been produced in consultation with and approved by: Royal Children's Hospital - Safety Centre
Last updated: March 2016
Page content currently being reviewed.
Content on this website is provided for information purposes only. Information about a therapy, service, product or treatment does not in any way endorse or support such therapy, service, product or treatment and is not intended to replace advice from your doctor or other registered health professional. The information and materials contained on this website are not intended to constitute a comprehensive guide concerning all aspects of the therapy, product or treatment described on the website. All users are urged to always seek advice from a registered health care professional for diagnosis and answers to their medical questions and to ascertain whether the particular therapy, service, product or treatment described on the website is suitable in their circumstances. The State of Victoria and the Department of Health & Human Services shall not bear any liability for reliance by any user on the materials contained on this website.
My Health Life helps you manage your health
With tools, information and recommendations tailored to you, it’s your personal and secure health dashboard.
Learn more
Medical Dictionary
Enter a search term
Search
Search for your topic using the Merriam Webster medical dictionary
Service Search
Service Search
Find services near you
Service: Select a service Aboriginal Health Clinic Aboriginal Health Worker Acupuncture Adolescent Mental Health Services Adult Mental Health Services Adult-community education Aged care assessment Aged Care information-referral Aged Care Transport Aged Residential Care Air ambulance Alexander technique therapy Anaesthesiology - Pain Medicine Aromatherapy Audiology Bereavement counselling Biorhythm services Blood donation Blood transport Bowen therapy Cancer Support Groups Cardiology Cardiothoracic surgery Carer support Case management for older persons Cemeteries & Fees Cemetery operation Child protection-child abuse report Childrens play programs Chinese herbal medicine Chiropractic Chronic Disease Management Clinical Genetics Clinical Pharmacology Community bus Community Cancer Services Community Hours Cranio-Sacral Therapy Cremation Crisis counselling Crisis-emergency accommodation Culturally tailored health promotion Culturally tailored support groups Death service information Delivered meals Deputising Service Dermatology Diabetes Educator Diagnostic Ultrasound Dietetics Disability advocacy Disability aids - equipment Disability Care Transport Disability case management Disability information-referral Disability support packages Disability supported accommodation Drug and-or alcohol counselling Drug and-or alcohol support groups Early childhood intervention Education information-referral Emergency Department Emergency medical Employment placement and-or support Endocrinology Endodontic Exercise Physiology Family day care Family planning Family Violence Family violence counselling Feldenkrais Financial assistance Financial counselling Financial information-advice Flying doctor service Food Relief-food-meals Food safety Foster care Friendly visiting Funeral services Gastroenterology Gastroenterology - Hepatology General dental General Mental Health Services General Practice/GP (doctor) General Practice-GP Generalist counselling Genetic counselling Geriatric medicine Gynaecological Oncology Gynaecology Health advocacy-Liaison service Health counselling Health information-referral Hearing aids - equipment Hepatology Higher education Holiday programs Home care-housekeeping assistance Home maintenance and repair Home Medicine Review Home Nursing Homelessness support Homoeopathy Hospital Hospital Services Housing information-referral Hydrotherapy Hypnotherapy Immunisation Immunology - Allergy Infectious diseases Inpatients Integrated Family Services Intensive care medicine Juvenile Justice Kindergarten-preschool Kinesiology Kinship Care Legal advocacy Legal information-advice-referral Library Long day child care Magnetic Resonance Imaging Magnetic therapy Martial arts Massage therapy Material aid Maternal - child health Maternity & Newborn Services Mediation Medical Oncology Medical Research Meditation Mental health advocacy Mental health information-referral Mental Health Services Migrant Health Clinic Music Therapy Myotherapy Naturopathy Needle - Syringe exchange Neonatology - Perinatology Nephrology Neurology Neurosurgery Nuclear Medicine Nurse lead Clinic Nurse Practitioner lead Clinic Nursing Nutrition Obstetrics Obstetrics - Gynaecology Occasional child care Occupational Medicine Occupational therapy Ophthalmology Optometry Oral medicine Oral surgery Orthodontic Orthopaedic surgery Osteopathy Outpatients Outreach Service Outside school hours care Paediatric Cardiology Paediatric Clinical Genetics Paediatric Clinical Pharmacology Paediatric Dentistry Paediatric Dermatology Paediatric Endocrinology Paediatric Haematology Paediatric Immunology Allergy Paediatric Infectious diseases Paediatric intensive care medicine Paediatric Medical Oncology Paediatric Medicine Paediatric Nephrology Paediatric Neurology Paediatric Nuclear Medicine Paediatric Rehabilitation Medicine Paediatric Rheumatology Paediatric Sleep Medicine Paediatric Surgery Paediatric Thoracic Medicine Palliative Medicine Pathology - Clinical Chemistry Pathology - General Pathology - Genetics Pathology - Haematology Pathology - Immunology Pathology - Microbiology Patient transport Periodontic Personal alarms-alerts Personal care for older persons Personal fitness training Pharmacy Physical activity group Physical activity programs Physical fitness testing Physiotherapy Pilates Placement Protection Planned activity groups Plastic - Reconstructive Surgery Playgroup Podiatry Primary education Problem gambling counselling Prosthetics - Orthotics Prosthodontic Psychiatry Psychology Public Health Medicine Public rental housing Quit program Radiation oncology Reflexology Refugee Health Clinic Rehabilitation Medicine Reiki Relationship counselling Relaxation therapy Respite care Rheumatology School nursing Secondary education Sexual assault counselling Sexual health Shiatsu Sleep Medicine Social Support Social Work Speech pathology-therapy Spiritual Counselling Sporting club Support groups Surgery - General Telephone Counselling Thoracic medicine Toy library Training - vocational education Translating Services Trauma counselling Urogynaecology Urology Vascular surgery Veterans Services Victims of crime counselling Victorian Cardiac Rehabilitation Directory Vocational Rehabilitation Western herbal medicine Womens Health Clinic Yoga Youth drop in-assistance-support
Location:
Type a minimum of three characters then press UP or DOWN on the keyboard to navigate the autocompleted search results
Use my location
Find a doctor
Need to find a doctor in your local area? Take a look at the general practitioners entry in our health service profiles.
see general practitioner
Recent Activity
48 people have watched a video today
Health topics
Conditions and treatments
Healthy living
Services and support
Explore
Recipes
Healthy pantry
Videos
Consumer medicine information
Multilingual health information - Health Translations Directory
About
About us
Accessibility
Content partners
Privacy
Terms of use
Contact us
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Page last reviewed: 30 Jun 2014
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/health/conditionsandtreatments/burns-and-scalds-children
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/about/privacy
Privacy Statement
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/about/terms-of-use
Copyright Notice
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/about/terms-of-use
Disclaimer Notice
This web site is managed and authorised by the Department of Health & Human Services, State Government of Victoria, Australia
© Copyright State of Victoria 2018.
Back to Top