asthma – asthma – Page 2 – OxygenWorldwide's Blog
Skip to content
Primary Menu
Home
About Us
Our Services
Contact Us
Search
Search for:
OxygenWorldwide's Blog
caring about your holiday with medical oxygen www.oxygenworldwide.com
asthma
THE BEST supplements to boost your diet during dark winter months include vitamin D, which has now been found to protect against severe asthma attacks.
October 9, 2017 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
The best supplements to take during cold winter months include vitamin D due to the lack of sunshine.
However, a new study has found that topping up on the essential vitamin could also protect against severe asthma attacks too.
Asthma attacks can be more prevalent during winter because cold air in the airways can cause them to go into spasm, according to Asthma UK.
Researchers at Queen Mary University of London discovered that people who took oral vitamin D supplements in addition to standard asthma medication could halve their risk of an asthma attack that required hospital attendance.
“On average, three people in the UK die from asthma attacks every day.
While getting vitamin D from sun exposure is the most efficient way to absorb it, people can struggle to get enough during the winter months and there is also the risk of skin cancer.
Reference: http://www.express.co.uk/life-style/health/861375/best-supplements-vitamin-d-diet-asthma-attack-winter
Portable oxygenasthma, health, oxygen, vitamin D, winter
Thunderstorm Asthma on the Rise
August 13, 2017 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
For seasonal allergy sufferers, rain is usually thought of as a friend—it washes the pollen out of the air. However, there are circumstances in which a particular type of wet weather event can make things much worse: thunderstorms. Asthma epidemics have occurred under such circumstances and have affected patients who have never exhibited asthmatic symptoms before. The most recent severe episode occurred in Melbourne, Australia, in 2016, with 8500 emergency asthma visits and nine deaths.[1]
Recently in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Dr Gennaro D’Amato and colleagues[1] explored the nature of this phenomenon and implications for the future. The authors point out that although rare, these events are expected to occur more often with anticipated climate change. According to the authors, the evidence for this so far is limited to pollen and outdoor mold seasons—but even in the northeastern United States, that is about three quarters of the year.
Who Is at Risk?
Certainly, people who are sensitized to the relevant allergens are at risk. Beyond that, we can presume that patients who already have poorly controlled asthma or more bronchial hyperresponsiveness would be at risk, as would patients who have other concurrent risk factors for allergic asthma (such as rhinovirus infection[5]).
What differentiates people who died of asthma from those who did not? Did they have bronchodilating asthma inhalers? Were these fatalities akin to fatal food anaphylaxis in patients who did not have treatment with injectable epinephrine? Many questions remain.
Thunderstorm asthma is an uncommon event that can overwhelm healthcare systems and kill patients. It is yet another reason to screen atopic patients for asthma. Those who are sensitized to pollens or outdoor molds and also wheeze with colds are prime candidates for additional evaluation for undiagnosed asthma. Likewise, patients with exercise-induced asthma (who perhaps have more than just this condition) should probably have spirometry to assess for baseline airway hyperreactivity and perhaps exhaled nitric oxide as well. Perhaps for milder asthmatics who are deemed at higher risk, instead of a bronchodilator alone, we should prescribe a combination inhaler with a corticosteroid and a long-acting fast-onset bronchodilator.
References
Medscape Allergy & Immunology © 2017 WebMD, LLC
Any views expressed above are the author’s own and do not necessarily reflect the views of WebMD or Medscape.
Cite this article: Thunderstorm Asthma on the Rise – Medscape – Aug 11, 2017.
Portable oxygenasthma, breathing, oxygen, thunderstorm
Get stronger lungs with these exercises!!
July 9, 2017 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
Exercise is a fanastic way to help strengthen muscles and improve heart function all at the same time. It will also give a person overall health benefits and motivation to feel good.
So how does this help you if you have a condition like asthma?
There are breathing exercises that, like aerobic exercises, can strengthen the lungs to relieve asthma symptoms or, in some cases, even prevent the recurrence of asthma attacks.
To make up for the lessened functionality of the lungs through asthma, the body uses other muscles for breathing – such as your neck, back and chest. This, however, doesn’t assist with breathing; it only adds more stress to your body, which is not good for people living with asthma.
With the following breathing exercises, asthma patients can strengthen their lungs and, thus, improve their breathing.
Pursed-Lip Breathing
With a pursed lip, breathe into your nose and breathe out at least twice through your mouth.
Belly Breathing
Breathe into your nose and breathe out through you mouth at least two times. Make sure that each exhale is as long as your inhale. This helps with training your diaphragm to do most of the work while breathing, which builds up the strength to fill and empty your lungs.
If you begin to feel dizzy while practicing any of these exercises, stop immediately.Once you feel better, try again. If the dizziness continues, you should contact your doctor for help.
refernce : Jason Hughes, tricounty
Portable oxygenasthma, breathing, exercises, health, medical oxygen, travel
If you could stop asthma with a pill, would you take it?
March 3, 2017 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
Recently it has been announced that scientists in Great Britain could have the answer to asthma all contained within a small tablet.
A protein has been found by Leicester University researchers which triggers the narrowing of airways which causes the potentially fatal lung condition.
They believe a new treatment could be available within five years. This can not come soon enough with recent media fatalities with young people loosing their lives to this illness. Asthma affects 4.3 million adults and 1.1 million children in Britain. An attack kills three people every day.
Asthma affects 4.3 million adults and 1.1 million children in Britain. An attack kills three people every day.
Although a number of new therapies are under investigation for allergy-related asthma there is still a need for new therapies for asthma that is not related to allergies.It has been over 20 years since any breakthrough treatment and most asthma sufferers use an inhaler prescribed from their doctor to help.Dr Saunders said: “It’s an exciting time in asthma research. There are new treatments close to being in the clinic for allergy asthma and now we hope this can help with the non-allergy form.”If it goes well we could have a viable drug in five to seven years.”
An exciting time indeed for asthma patients to read this and improve this long-term illness.
reference: express.co.uk
Portable oxygenasthma, breathing, pills
Oxygen therapy… So many uses!
February 9, 2017 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
In the 1930s, when subways were being dug in Europe, there was a fairly high incidence of the decompression condition known as Caisson’s disease, most likely caused by blast exposure. And in that group, of patients there was a high incidence of suicide.
Today, we usually treat a similar decompression condition called the bends, which occasionally happens to scuba divers, with Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT). After such treatment, there is no increased incidence of suicide.
In William Maxfield’s (one of the nation’s foremost experts in hyperbaric medicine) new book, “The Oxygen Cure,” there is data about use of hyperbaric oxygen to treat strokes. You can go to the website Bcenter.com and look up the response of Valerie Greene who was 30 when she had her stroke. At that time she could not walk or talk. Today she can, and is now a spokesman for the Stroke Association.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy has also been shown to help with chemotherapy, infection, radiation therapy effects, epilepsy, fibromyalgia, emphysema, asthma, ADHD, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiac disease, migraine headaches, vertigo, early dementia, vision loss, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, and of course traumatic brain injury and PTSD.
William S. Maxfield, M.D., is a board-certified physician in hyperbaric medicine, radiology, and nuclear medicine. He is one of the nation’s foremost experts in hyperbaric medicine, pioneering its use to treat wounds, brain trauma, multiple sclerosis, and other conditions.
ref: http://www.newsmax.com/Health/Dr-Maxfield/oxygen-therapy-scuba-diving-veterans/2017/01/18/id/769188/
Portable oxygenasthma, HBOT, oxygen therapy
Can meat be bad for asthma?
December 24, 2016 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
Experts say people should eat no more than 70g a day of red and processed meat for good health with processed meat possibly making asthma symptoms worse.
A study carried out in France ‘journal Thorax’ believe the preservative nitrite used in sausages, ham and salami may make these symptoms worse. The survey looked specifically at asthma symptoms – breathlessness, wheeze, chest tightness – and intake of cured meat: a single portion was two slices of ham, one sausage or two slices of salami.
“People who said they consumed more than four portions a week – eight slices of ham or four sausages, for example – had the biggest deterioration of their asthma by the end of the study.”
The experts stress that their work cannot prove diet is definitely to blame. There are lots of factors in a person’s life that can make their asthma worse.
references: bbcnews.co.uk
Portable oxygenasthma, lung function, processed meat, thorax study
Christmas check list
December 18, 2016 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
Christmas is a time for friends, family and a lot of preparing gifts, journeys, cards to send but most of all do not get too stressed and rushed and forget to look after yourself or your family’s health over the festive period.
Plan ahead:
Order any repeat prescriptions you may need especially if you are going away for the festive season.
Check that you have enough oxygen supply for the Christmas period.
If you are going away make sure you make arrangements for any oxygen that you need.
Also look out for lonely, vulnerable neighbours and friends during the winter period, that may need your help or even conversation.
Stay warm during the festive time – make sure you pre-programme your heating for when you are going to be in and set your thermostat to a suitable temperature.
If you are ordering a supply of oxygen make sure you have registered with OxygenWorldwide so any concerns whilst away can be dealt with 24/7
Have a lovely Christmas!!!!
Portable oxygenasthma, christmas, oxygen, portable oxygen concentrator
10 tips for winter
November 15, 2016 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
Cold, dry air and an increased risk of upper respiratory infections can worsen asthma symptoms during the winter. Washing your hands frequently, exercising indoors, and taking other healthy steps can help you keep a handle on asthma attacks.
Wash your hands!
Don’t sit by the fireplace. “The more evidence we have, the more we realize that burning wood is like burning tobacco,” explains Todd Rambasek, MD, of ENT & Allergy Health Services in Cleveland.
Keep your mouth closed. Ideally, you want to breathe through your nose, not your mouth, when you’re out in the cold because the nose warms up the air for the lungs, Dr. Rambasek says.
Replace filters. Your home heating system may blow dust and debris throughout your house, especially when you first start it up for the winter. It’s important to clean and replace filters before turning on your system so as not to release the debris.
Exercise indoors. On days when it’s bitterly cold outside and the wind chill makes it feel like it’s below zero, Li recommends going to the gym instead of exercising outside. “The temperatures and the humidity in the gym are less likely to cause a problem,” she says.
Warm up before working out. A recent study showed that people with asthma recover faster and have greater lung function after exercising when they are warmed up.
Take steps to prevent asthma flares. Take a preventive dose of your asthma medicine before heading outside, whether to exercise, walk the dog, or run errands.
Have an asthma action plan. No matter what the season, you should always know what to do if your asthma symptoms flare.
Take your medications. It’s important to follow your treatment plan regardless of the time of year. Don’t let a busy work or social schedule cause you to ignore your health.
Keeping your asthma under control may take a little more effort in the cold of winter, but these strategies should get you through the season without worsened symptoms.
References: http://www.everydayhealth.com/
Portable oxygenasthma, breathing, winter
A healthy lifestyle also helps to keep your lungs healthy!
October 25, 2016 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
We all know that a healthy lifestyle can help us lose weight, get more energy and give us a better quality of life in general. But it is little known that good exercise and healthy food is especially beneficial for the well-being of your lungs also, both for people who still have healthy lungs as for people who suffer from any lung disease already.
Exercising doesn’t necessarily mean exhausting yourself
For people who have a lung disease, like asthma or COPD, exercising often seems just bridge too far. But exercising does not have to be strenuous. A small research with COPD patients doing mild exercises in a bath filled with warm spring water showed a remarkable reduction of their symptoms and improvement of the condition of their lungs as well as their oxygen saturation. Also special training like yoga or tai chi have seen to be very wholesome for COPD patients, and can even slow down the progression of diseases like emphysema.
For asthma patients, especially those suffering from exercise-induced asthma, a simple exercise as blowing in a bottle regularly, can improve their lung function significantly. This was demonstrated by a research where 212 patients were asked to blow into a bottle every 4 hours, during 4 months. After this period their FEV (Forced Expiratory Volume, which is the amount of air that can be blown out in a one second forced exhalation) showed a stable improvement of their lung function. Apart from that they needed to use their inhalers a lot less during this period. 65-75% of the improvement remained for over half a year, even without blowing in the bottle.
It seems only logical that, if these simple exercises are so beneficial to already damaged lungs, they would be just perfect to keep your still healthy lungs in tip top shape. So don’t wait until it is too late, start exercising and let your lungs absorb the oxygen to energise your body. No need for exhausting exercises, a nice walk in the fresh air, that you can breathe in deeply, is sufficient and may be even the best!
Eat vegetables and fruits to keep your lungs in the best possible condition
More and more scientists and researchers emphasise the importance of eating ample fruit and veggies, around 400 grams daily, to keep our bodies healthy. Specific research has recently shown that especially our lungs also benefit from this kind of diet. A researcher from the section Health & Environment from the University of Washington in Seattle found that frequent consumption of vegetables and fruits reduces the chance to develop COPD or other lung diseases, while for people already suffering from COPD, it improved their lung function significantly. Other research found that eating fruits and vegetables offers protection against lung cancer.
If possible, try to get biological products, as these contain more anti oxidants than the regularly grown vegetables and fruits. Furthermore, the biological varieties contain more polyphenols. Both anti oxidants and polyphenols are known to have anti inflammatory and anti carcinogenic properties.
Ref: Medisch dossier, Sept. 2016; Wikipedia
Portable oxygenasthma, copd, exercising, fruit, lung function, vegetables, yoga
Asthma can reduce your productivity
June 23, 2016 OxygenWorldwideLeave a comment
A new survey has shown that 75% of people who suffer with asthma blame their illness for a significant reduction in productivity at work and asthma patients on average miss 3 hours of work a week due to their illness. The survey also showed how patients are also feeling that they have a lack of productivity when it comes to household chores and daily activities as well as at work.
All 1,598 patients surveyed were taking their prescribed medications and were from various countries. 74% reported issues around productivity at work and also 3 hours of work missed a week. 9% reported a complete inability to work and 67% reported sleep disturbances.
The survey was conducted by the Think.Act.Breathe campaign who help asthma patients identify personal risk and improve immediate and long-term risk of asthma exacerbations.
Dr. Kevin Gruffydd-Jones, lead author of the report said the findings illustrate how asthma can impact a patient’s economic burden, even while on medication.
“People with asthma often accept their symptoms and the impact they have on their daily lives. It is important that people with asthma talk to their doctor about how their asthma is affecting them at work, their sleep and daily life, and to discuss what more could be done to help them feel better and live life to the full.”
Asthma may cause physical and mental affects as well as the obvious physical ones and can have an impact on your whole life. Only 13% reported no impact on their work but 23% reported feeling tired and weak at work as well as 18% feeling mentally strained. 51% also stated that their symptoms had a negative impact upon their ability to complete daily chores outside of work.
“Asthma affects millions of people worldwide and most people with asthma have low expectations of what can be achieved by asthma management and don’t realise that their condition can be improved,” said Boehringer Ingelheim’s Head of Respiratory Medicine.
Many people get an initial diagnosis and treatment but never go back to the doctors for a check-up. However symptoms change and science moves forward and it is important to go back to your doctor regularly especially if symptoms lessen or worsen. New drugs, new treatment methods, breathing techniques and supplemental oxygen among other things could be available to you to help to improve your quality of life, reduce the frequency of exacerbations and lessen symptoms. Sleep disturbances could be due to sleep apnoea which could be eased with supplemental oxygen and a slight change to your treatment could greatly improve your oxygen levels, sleep and breathing which would greatly improve your productivity at work and at home.
References: http://lungdiseasenews.com
Portable oxygenasthma, oxygen levels, respiratory, sleep, work
Previous Articles
Next Articles
OXYGENWORLDWIDE
africa Art charity lifeline England going on holiday with medical oxygen Health holiday india LifeChoice poc medical oxygen news oxygen oxygen abroad Portable oxygen travel traveling with medical oxygen Uncategorized weddings
Search for:
Recent News
Stressed? Our guide to take the stress out of travelling with oxygen
5 tips to travelling with oxygen this summer
Q. Can you take oxygen when travelling on a plane?
Travelling with oxygen? A short guide what to do and what not to do…
1,2,3,4,5 tips to manage your COPD
More Interesting Information
More Interesting Information Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 October 2009 November 2008
Recent Comments
Do’s and Don’ts for Travelling with oxygen – on Few top tips for travelling with medical oxygen
OxygenWorldwide on Breathe better this year…
Michael on Breathe better this year…
livingono2forlife on Medical Oxygen Vest – Watch it here…
Sharron on Taking the breath of life
OxygenWorldwide
OxygenWorldwide
Travel with Oxygen
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
OxygenWorldwide
advice on health airline travel oxygen airsep freestyle asthma back up service breathing concentrador de oxígeno portátil concentratores di ossigeno portatile copd Europe exercise health holiday holidays liquid oxygen spain lung disease lung function lungs making a difference medical oxygen medical oxygen equipment medical oxygen overseas provider oxygen oxygen equipment oxygen levels oxygen therapy oxygen travel europe OxygenWorldwide oxygen worldwide portable concentrators portable oxygen concentrator portable oxygen concentrators respiratory health sleep smoking supplemental oxygen technology travel travelling with oxygen travel oxygen travel special needs oxygen travel worldwide UK we care worldwide organisation
Copyright 2019 OxygenWorldwide SL