Dupixen Has Miraculously Cured My Eczema | The Skeptical Cardiologist
The Skeptical Cardiologist
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
About
Diet and Heart Disease
Dr.P’s Diet and Exercise Recommendations
Diet
Exercise
Dairy Fat and Heart Disease
Dietary Cholesterol and Heart Disease
Sugar as Toxin: Avoiding Added Sugar, Fructose and Stealth Sugar
Tofu, Cheerios, Smoothies, Coffee Creamer
Quackery and Snake Oil
Early Detection Of Heart Disease
Coronary Calcium Score
Carotid IMT and Plaque Screening
Statin Drugs
Cardiac Testing
Echocardiograms-Botched, Misread, or Overutilized
Useless Supplements, Herbs, and Vitamins
Atrial Fibrillation And Stroke
Hypertension (High Blood Pressure)
Heart Healthy Nuts
Search for:
Uncategorized
Dupixen Has Miraculously Cured My Eczema
August 6, 2017 Dr. AnthonyP	14 Comments
Although this post is most unskeptical and decidedly noncardiac, the skeptical cardiologist feels compelled to share this information with readers who have or know friends or family with eczema or atopic determatitis, a chronic skin condition that results in itchy, scaly, dry and red skin.
For most of my life I have dealt with periodic flare-ups of eczema along with continuously itchy skin . Control of flare-ups was by meticulous attention to keeping my skin clean and moisturized along with frequent applications of topical corticosteroids.
Things worsened a few years ago and I began to think I might have Red Skin Syndrome, which some dermatologist believe is due to withdrawal from topical corticosteroids.
Two months ago, however, my spirits brightened when I heard that the FDA had approved a new biologic injectable called Dupixent (dupilumab), to treat adults with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis), whose eczema is not controlled adequately by topical steroids.
My fantastic dermatologist, Dr. Amy Ney, agreed this was appropriate therapy for me, and within a week I received a refrigerated package containing the initial dosage: two syringes filled with the drug.
The pre-loaded syringe filled with Dupixent. The syringes come with very detailed instructions to guide you through the process of injecting the liquid into either the abdominal region or the thighs.
Within a week of injecting the contents of the syringes into my abdomen, my itching ceased and I had no more eczematous rashes. For me this was a minor miracle.
Since then I’ve injected one 300 mg syringe every two weeks and I continue to be free of my life-long signs and symptoms of eczema.
Atopic Dermatitis and Dupixent
The cause of atopic dermatitis is a combination of genetic, immune and environmental factors. In atopic dermatitis, the skin develops red, scaly and crusted bumps, which are extremely itchy. Scratching leads to swelling, cracking, “weeping” clear fluid, and finally, coarsening and thickening of the skin.
Dupixent’s active ingredient is an antibody (dupilumab) that binds to a protein [interleukin-4 (IL-4) receptor alpha subunit (IL-4Ra)], that causes inflammation. By binding to this protein, Dupixent is able to inhibit the inflammatory response that plays a role in the development of atopic dermatitis.
Dupixent acts by inhibiting two cytokines that are responsible for the hyperimmune response in skin. They are called IL-4 and IL-13. IL is an abbreviation for interleukins, proteins that are produced by leukocytes (3) and play a part in regulation of the immune system. Steroids, such as prednisone, also suppress the immune system, but taking them for an extended period of time will get you into trouble. (See: Prednisone: Satan’s Little Helper) Unlike prednisone, Dupixent inhibits specific targets. It works more like a scalpel than a bomb.
More Stories of Miraculous Relief
I am not alone in experiencing miraculous relief from this new drug. I first heard of it from a New York Times article in 2016 which details the dramatic responses of several patients who were involved in the clinical trials that proved the drug’s efficacy:
One participant in the trial, Lisa Tannebaum, a 53-year-old harpist in Stamford, Conn., was so thrilled that she wrote a letter to Regeneron suggesting they use her before and after photographs in advertisements. She developed a severe form of the disease 14 years ago and tried everything imaginable in conventional and alternative medicine without relief — specialized diets, immunosuppressive drugs, special clothing, bleach baths. She even had the gold fillings removed from her teeth on the theory that they may be causing an allergic response, but to no avail.
“It was like every day I had poison ivy and fire ants on myself,” she said. “You don’t sleep at all. You can’t go out, you have staph infections all the time,” because the skin’s protective barrier is broken by the rash. “I couldn’t drive my kids to school because the itching was so bad I couldn’t put my hands on the steering wheel.”
Now, she is performing again and will be playing her harp at Carnegie Hall on Oct. 30.
Randomized Controlled Trials Proving Efficacy
Of course we can’t rely on anecdotes to prove the safety and efficacy of drugs: we need randomized, controlled, double-blind studies.
Dupixent has three such clinical trials with a total of 2,119 adult participants, and the results were remarkable. (for details see here). Overall, participants who received Dupixent achieved greater response, defined as clear or almost clear skin, and experienced a reduction in itch after 16 weeks of treatment.
Panel A shows the proportions of patients with the primary end point (both a score of 0 or 1 [clear or almost clear] on the Investigator’s Global Assessment [IGA; scores range from 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating more severe disease] and a reduction from baseline of 2 points or more on the IGA at week 16) among patients who received dupilumab every week, dupilumab every other week, or placebo in SOLO 1 and SOLO 2. Panel B shows the proportions of patients with the key secondary end point (which was considered to be a coprimary end point by regulators in the European Union and Japan) of an improvement from baseline of at least 75% on the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI-75) at week 16 in the two trials. P<0.001 for all comparisons between dupilumab and placebo. For binary end points, patients who received rescue medications or withdrew from the study were categorized as having had no response, as were those with all other missing values.
The only side effect which was more common with Dupixent than placebo was conjunctivitis, an inflammation of the eye.
Cost of Dupixent
When I first read of this drug I assumed it would be horribly expensive. In cardiology we have two injectable biologics (Repatha and Praluent, PCSK9 inhibitors) for lowering cholesterol, which typically have been costing my patients with insurance coverage over 1000$ per month.
Fortunately Sanofi/Regeneron have learned from prior experience and priced the drug at $37,000, a number that insurance companies have apparently warmly welcomed. This article suggests that the drug is priced significantly lower than newer biologics now available for psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis.
With my insurance (United Health Care) coverage I was asked to pay 150$ for 2 injections per month.
I then discovered that Sanofi has a co-pay card that covers that 150$ so that for now I am paying zero dollars out of the 37,000$.
I’m paying nothing for a brand new biologic injectable that has cured my eczema. Now that is miraculous!
Unskeptically Yours,
-ACP
N.B. Featured Image before and after hand is from National Eczema organization and is not of my hand.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Print
Pinterest
Reddit
LinkedIn
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
atopic dermatitiscuredupilumabdupixeneczemamiracleRegeneronSanofi
Post navigation
Previous PostWhy Are The Dutch So Heart Healthy and Happy (And Tall)? Part I: Is It Their Diet?Next PostQuackery Promotion By Mainstream Media: Part I, Reader’s Digest and Naturopathy
14 thoughts on “Dupixen Has Miraculously Cured My Eczema”
Maureen Booth says:
August 6, 2017 at 9:28 pm
I am so happy you finally have relief from eczema.
It is wonderful to be free from chronic pain.
Congratulations.
Maureen Booth
Reply
Dr. AnthonyP says:
August 7, 2017 at 5:41 am
Thank you Maureen!
Reply
Mike Wagliardo says:
August 8, 2017 at 12:06 pm
Happy this worked for you Dr Anthony! Forwarding to my 24 yr old son who has struggled with eczema throughout life. I would be shocked if his health insurance covers this medication, but it may encourage him to continue to work with a dermatologist for relief. I think he has given up….
Regards,
Mike
Reply
addiction2prescriptiontopicalsteroids says:
October 1, 2017 at 2:25 am
Hi Dr Anthony P, this was such a great article to read regarding the potential to cure eczema. What you’re your thoughts around the prescription of topical cortisone steroids currently which seems to be the go-to option for doctors and dermatologists? I’ve heard many stories around topical steroid prescription and red skin syndrome. On my page https://wordpress.com/view/addiction2prescriptiontopicalsteroids.wordpress.com there are some anecdotes and stories from medical specialists surrounding the dangers of patients using topical steroids. Is there a danger of dupixent also holding similar side effects for patients too? Are there other factors which can make topical steroids dangerous for certain patients?
Reply
Dr. AnthonyP says:
October 1, 2017 at 6:40 am
I’ve used topical steroids for half a century for my eczema. I feel they should be used in as low a potency and for as short a duration as possible. One reason I became an early adopter of Dupixent was because I had developed skin changes I felt were related to long term topical steroids. I am aware of the concerns about red skin syndrome from topical steroids and felt I might have had aspects of that syndrome (although it seems to be questioned by most dermatologists.)
Because I was an early adopter of Dupixent, it is possible that there will be significant side effects emerge from the drugs use that I was unaware of. I am willing to take that chance given how much better I feel overall.
The drug is not a panacea and I need to write a follow up post that deals with my long term experience with it.
For now, be aware that it seems to worsen allergic conjunctivitis.
Reply
Jeff says:
November 25, 2017 at 9:33 pm
Thank you doctor for this eye opening article. My eczema seems to come and go and now has stuck around. I will discuss with my dermatologist soon. Glad you are feeling much better. Maybe I can join you.
Do you think diet has anything to do with flare ups or eczema in general?
Reply
Dr. AnthonyP says:
November 26, 2017 at 8:21 am
Thanks, Jeff.
First off, let me say that I am no eczema expert. Prior to Dupixent, when my eczema was really bad I searched long and hard for dietary causes.I read extensively on the topic.
I put my self on an elimination diet with little or no change.I think that is the best approach to identifying any dietary triggers.
My final conclusion was that excess alcohol (especially botanical liquors) was likely a trigger and pistachio nuts also likely a trigger.
Reply
Jeff says:
November 26, 2017 at 6:10 pm
Thanks, doc. Keep up the great work.
Reply
gerdy says:
January 24, 2018 at 3:05 pm
Hi Dr. Anthony…congratulations on conquering eczema. I am also on Dupixent. Are you completely clear of topical steroids since starting on dupixent? Have you had any symptoms of steroid withdrawal? As I mentioned, i am on dupixent, but believe I am still struggling with Steroid withdrawal
Reply
Dr. AnthonyP says:
January 27, 2018 at 10:19 am
I am virtually completely clear of topical steroids. No steroid withdrawal symptoms.
I have developed an annoying red patch on my forehead. I will not use steroids on it and it persists.
It’s not clear to me if this is related to the Dupixent.
Reply
Bob says:
April 27, 2018 at 1:21 pm
Your Dupixent article is useful and informative. I am responding to your 1/27/2018 comment — I have also developed eczema patches on my forehead and around my nose in addition to irritated eyes. Otherwise, Dupixent has delivered me from 65 years of suffering. The change on my hands has been amazing.
Reply
Dr. AnthonyP says:
April 28, 2018 at 7:32 am
I’m going to update this post at some point with my ongoing experience. I searched long and hard for any mention of forehead patches and could find nothing that duplicated my experience until your comments. I’m glad Dupixent has mostly worked for you like me. Since my last comment on this I had it biopsied and it showed evidence for contact hypersensitivity suggesting a reaction to a topical substance. Subsequently I tried eliminating using Elidel which was really the only thing I was using prior to the biopsy and that didn’t help. ultimately i have started using as little as possible a small amount of steroid cream and that helps it a lot. I’ve also been experimenting with Eucrisa and think that helps a little.
Reply
Joe Chang says:
May 6, 2018 at 9:36 pm
Hi All,
I’m also on Dupixent and it’s a complete game-changer for me. I have conjunctivitis, but it’s a small price to pay for no itching. I’ve been on Dupixent since April 2017, and I’ve seen no change in the effectiveness since then. I do have a small patch of red skin on one of my temples, but it’s not itchy. I’m not on any steroids or Elidel anymore; it’s fantastic!!
Just wanted to share my experience as well for those that have severe eczema that can’t be controlled any other way.
Reply
Dr. AnthonyP says:
May 7, 2018 at 5:37 pm
Joe, good to hear! I recently tried prolonging the time between injections. Around 16 days after the last injection I start itching again which reminds me of how wonderfully improved I am with Dupixent
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,864 other followers
Follow
Recent Posts
Can The Apple Watch Or Kardia ECG Monitor Detect Heart Attacks?
Is It Time To Stop Eating Deadly Eggs Or Time To Stop Putting Nutritional Epidemiology In The Headlines?
L’Italia È Molto Bella
Italy And The Valsalva Manouevre
Are You Doing Enough Push Ups To Save Your Life?
Blogroll
Dr. John Mandrola's great blog on Afib, cycling, doctoring, inflammation A great blog from an electrophysiologist with good discussions on atrial fibrillation, health care, cycling
They Said What? This blog by Al Lewis takes apart with humor the “Wellness Ignorati”, those who believe in prodding, prying and poking employees to allegedly improve their health.
The Peter Attia Drive Podcast The Peter Attia Drive is a weekly, ultra-deep-dive podcast focusing on maximizing health, longevity, critical thinking…and a few other things. Topics include fasting, ketosis, Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, mental health, and much more. The Drive is hos
Food Politics by Marion Nestle Great info on how the science of nutrition is influenced by the food industry and food industry trends in general
Diets
Comparison of Diets: It's All about Eating RealFoods
http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2014/03/science-compared-every-diet-and-the-winner-is-real-food/284595/
The Problem With Diet Books Written By Doctors
Important Medical Links
Skeptical Medicine This outstanding website comes from John Byrne, MD. It has a wealth of really well-written and well-researched articles and touches on critical thinking in medicine, logical fallacies, statistics, alternative medicine, pseudoscience, and quackery.
The Heart.org Cardiology news and opinion
Prominent Quacks And Snake Oil Salesmen
Excellent Review of Dr. Oz Summarizes how Dr. Oz has gone from respectable physician to snake oil promoter. The reasons for this transformation are unclear but I advise my patients to ignore anything he says at this point.
4 Goop Doctors: A Look at Their Pseudoscience The quacks who advise Gwyneth Paltrow
Pseudoscientific Medicine
Excellent science-based summary of chiropractic from a chiropractor Questions and answers about chiropractic
The Sham That is Naturopathic Medicine From A Former "Board Certified" Naturopathic Doctor
Medicine in Magic Kingdom of CAscadia Oregon has three “colleges” of pseudoscientific medicine to contend with
Acupuncture doesn't work
Naturopathy and Dubious Compounding Pharacies: A Deadly Combination A good article from science-based medicine on the quackery that is naturopathy.
Why Functional Medicine Is Bogus Harriet Hall’s Take on the Pseudoscientific Mumbo Jumbo of Functional Medicine
Video Series on Science-Based Medicine Versus Complementary or Alternative Medicine by Harriet Hall he James Randi Educational Foundation has produced a superb 10-part video lecture series in which Harriet Hall, M.D., contrasts science-based medicine with so-called “complementary and alternative” methods. The topics include: What is CAM?; acupunctur
Dr. Dean Ornish Turn Away From The Dark Side
Supplements
Skip the Supplement Good review of the dangers and lack of benefits of taking supplements
Most popular Blog Posts
Is It Time To Stop Eating Deadly Eggs Or Time To Stop Putting Nutritional Epidemiology In The Headlines?
Why You Should Ignore "The Plant Paradox" by Steven Gundry
Can The Apple Watch Or Kardia ECG Monitor Detect Heart Attacks?
The Incredibly Bad Science Behind Dr. Esselstyn's Plant-based Diet
Treatment of Palpitations Due To Benign PVCs: Potassium, Magnesium and Lifestyle Adjustment
L'Italia È Molto Bella
How Much Does or Should An Echocardiogram Cost?
Atrial Fibrillation: How Many Times Can You Shock The Heart?
Is Your Generic Medication Made In China and Is It Safe?
What Cold Medications Are Safe For My Heart?
Unbiased, evidence-based discussion of the effects of diet, drugs, and procedures on heart disease
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,864 other followers
Follow
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
aging Aspirin Atherosclerosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease Atrial Fibrillation Cardiac Medications Cardiac Tests Cholesterol Treatment Complementary and Alternative Medicine (Quacks) Dairy Diet and Heart Disease Dietary Cholesterol and Eggs exercise Good Doctoring heart attack Hypertension Lifestyle and Heart Disease Medical/Fitness Devices Medical Information: Good and Bad Sources Medication Side Effects mobile ECG palpitations Saturated Fat Statin Drug Therapy Stroke Prevention Sudden Cardiac Death Sugar and Obesity Supplements and Vitamins Travel Uncategorized
Follow The Skeptical Cardiologist on WordPress.com
Follow Us
Powered by WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: