Nootrobox Review: Own STUDY Shows It's Less Effective Than Coffee
Skip to content
MENUMENU
Nootropics
Choline Sources
Racetams
5-HTP
Ashwagandha
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Adrafinil
Alpha GPC
Aniracetam
Bacopa Monnieri
Centrophenoxine
Choline Bitartrate
Citicoline
Coluracetam
DMAE
Fasoracetam
GABA
Ginkgo Biloba
Gotu Kola
Huperzine A
Lion’s Mane
L-Theanine
Matcha Green Tea
Memantine
Noopept
Oxiracetam
Phenibut
Phenylpiracetam
Phosphatidylcholine
Phosphatidylserine
Picamilon
Piracetam
Pramiracetam
PRL 8 53
Sulbutiamine
Sunifiram
Theobromine
Uridine
Vinpocetine
Supplements
Nootropic Supplements
ADD Tabz
Adderin
ADDerRX
Addium
Addrena
Alpha Brain
Cebria
CILTEP
Cogniflex
CogniShield
Enhance Mind IQ
Focus Factor
Focus Formula
Inteligen
Intelleral
Optimind
Lumonol
Mind Lab Pro
Nerium EHT
Neuro Clarity
NeuroFuse
Neurogum
Neuro Peak
Neuro XR
Nitro Vit
Noocube
Nootroo
Nootrogen
Nootrobox
Procera AVH
Provasil
truBrain
Smart Caffeine
Synaptol
Qualia Mind
Reviews
Best Adrafinil Reviews
Best Aniracetam Reviews
Best Adderall Alternatives
Best Anxiety Supplements
Best Krill Oil Reviews
Modafinil vs Adderall
Best Nootropic Stack
Best Mood Boosters
Top 5 Focus Pills
Buyers Guides
Where To Buy Nootropics
Absorb Your Health
Nootropics Depot
Buy Aniracetam
Peak Nootropics
Buy Adrafinil
Buy Phenibut Online
Pure Nootropics
Ceretropic
Afinil Express
DuckDose
ModafinilCat
Nootrobox Rise and Sprint Review: Their Own Study Showed HVNM Products Are Less Effective Than Coffee, So Is It Actually Worth Your Money?
Share
Tweet
Share
Pin
0 Shares
Table of Contents
What Is Nootrobox?
About the Company
How Does Nootrobox Rise and Sprint Work?
Ingredients
Main Benefits
Side Effects
Customer Complaints
Reviews: What Customers Say About It
Money Back Guarantee?
Final Conclusion
Where to Buy
Our Top Brain Enhancement Supplements
HVNM, formerely known as Nootrobox, is a company backed by Andreessen Horowitz (a well-known Venture Capital firm) that promises to enhance cognition, focus, memory, sleep and reduce stress.
​The two major Nootrobox brain boosters that the brand features are Rise and Sprint. In this review, these two products will be examined further in-depth.
The goal of using Rise is to improve the memory, increase mental resilience, and reduce mental fatigue.
Sprint, on the other hand, is designed to increase focus and energy.
Kado-3 is made with Omega-3 to protect the brain, improve the mood, and reduce stress.
Yawn, which is a natural sleep product, makes going to sleep easier, improves the mood, and reduces stress.
What Is Nootrobox?
Nootrobox is a brain supplement brand that specializes in pills that help you focus. The product line currently features the following brain-boosting supplements:
Rise – A nootropic stack supplement. This daily nootropic is designed to enhance cognitive performance and improve the long-term memory. The ingredients in the product have been shown to lessen anxiety and mental fatigue while enhancing the memory. These effects are shown to be most beneficial when the supplement is taken each day over a two-month period.
Sprint – A caffeine-based nootropic supplement. The blend of ingredients in Sprint support both relaxation and alertness. Sprint is designed to put you into a flow state where you can get things done without experiencing the jitters or crashes.
Kado-3 – A krill and fish oil stack, designed to protect the brain and body. The ingredients in the product improves the user’s mood, reduces stress, and enhances cardiovascular health. The benefits add up when the product is taken daily over time.
Yawn – A supplement that promotes sleep. The product has been designed to address the three phases of sleep, thereby making a person feel more refreshed when waking up.
GO Cubes – Chewable coffee for people on-the-go.
About the Company
The company that features the Nootrobox line-up is HVMN. The goal of the company is to feature products that cover the full spectrum of cognitive performance products. HVMN believes that improving brain performance is an active and long-term pursuit.
Therefore, the Nootrobox stacks are developed by fusing nootropic ingredients in specified doses that work well when combined. Because of the complexity of the brain, the company takes detailed measures to make sure the best cognitive-enhancement products are featured on the market.
How Does Nootrobox Rise and Sprint Work?
While Rise Nootrobox is designed to improve the memory and reduce mental tiredness over the long term, Sprint Nootrobox is made for short-term cognitive goals.
Therefore, Sprint users receive an instant cognitive benefit, one that allows them to focus well while sustaining an ongoing level of energy. Rise users also enjoy these same kinds of benefits without the caffeine rush. However, as stated, the advantages you receive by taking the Rush supplement take longer to optimize.
Ingredients
To examine the ingredients, you need to see what Rise and Sprint each feature in their formulas. The ingredients that are featured in Rise include the following:
Bacopa Monnieri (300 mg.) – This ingredient comes from a perennial herb, a plant substance that has been used in Ayurvedic medicine for centuries. The ingredient enhances memory functioning and the attention span. Research studies reveal you should take Bacopa Monnieri for eight weeks to see maximum results.
Alpha GPC (a-GPC) (300 mg.) – This natural choline compound, scientifically referred to as L-Alpha glycerylphosphorylcholine, is a potent nootropic that boosts the memory. When it is used with other nootropics, it is also an excellent potentiator, one that can take mental enhancement to a whole new level. This popular choline source is considered by many users of nootropics to be an essential ingredient in nootropic stacks.
Rhodiola Rosea (300 mg.) - Rhodiola Rosea is an herb that is known to encourage cognitive and physical vitality. The Scandinavian-based extract is known for its ability to reduce exhaustion or fatigue, especially in stressful situations. Rhodiola is an adaptogen that helps people overcome the tiredness that results from anxiety and burnout.
The ingredients in Sprint include the following:
Caffeine (100 mg.) – Caffeine is a stimulant and chemical that is sourced from around 60 plants worldwide. Its primary source is normally coffee beans. The psychoactive substance increases alertness, lengthens the attention span, and enhances the working memory.
L-theanine (200 mg.) – This ingredient provides excellent results when it is combined or stacked with caffeine. The fusion of caffeine and L-theanine enhances a person’s attention span and cognition without causing the nervousness related to pure caffeine. Therefore, the stacking of L-theanine with caffeine in Sprint leads to better focus, increased motivation, an improved memory, and a calmer temperament.
Vitamin B-6 (20 mg.) – While all the B vitamins lead to better brain health, B-6 is particularly important for preventing tiredness and regulating the mood. The water-soluble vitamin is needed by the brain for the production of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that elevates the mood and relaxes people. The vitamin is needed by the body as well to produce hemoglobin, a component of the blood that transports oxygen to the brain and other organs in the body. Studies show that B-6 may actually improve the memory.
Vitamin B-12 (60 mcg.) – Vitamin B-12 features crucial advantages for nervous system and brain health. One of the essential eight B vitamins, B-12 ensures that the nervous system is operating optimally. B-12 is required for focus, concentration, and memory enhancement. Low levels of the vitamin are associated with depression.
Vinpocetine (40 mg.) – Vinpocetine is a biosynthetic nootropic ingredient that is used as a neuroprotectant and brain booster. It is known for sharpening the memory, improving the mood, and enhancing thinking. That is because the ingredient increases the blood flow in the brain and steps up oxygen and nutrient absorption. It acts as an antioxidant as well to guard against the mental decline that is associated with aging.
L-tyrosine (400 mg.) – L-tyrosine is an amino acid. Its main roles include maintaining the health of the brain and synthesizing protein. It does this by manufacturing the substances from which calming agents, such as norepinephrine, epinephrine, and dopamine, are produced.
Main Benefits
When reviewing the main benefits of Nootrobox Rise and Sprint, you need to separate the benefits of each product.
The benefits of Nootrobox Rise can be attributed to each of the product’s ingredients, all of which work synergistically to produce the following advantages:
The long-term use of Rise Nootrobox improves memory retention.
Both memory recall and reaction times are much faster.
Long-term use can also lessen stress and anxiety.
The product can reduce cognitive declines in people with a neurodegenerative disease.
Rise improves cognition in people who are healthy.
The product protects against cognitive decline brought on by fatigue.
The benefits associated with using Nootrobox Sprint include the following:
The caffeine in the product promotes both wakefulness and alertness.
L-theanine in the product promotes a relaxing feeling without the need for sedation.
Both stress and anxiety are reduced when taking the product.
Users who take both caffeine and L-theanine report they feel focused without experiencing the jitters.
Research evidence shows that participants experienced improved performances on tests that measured their word recognition or visual information processes.
Studies show that Sprint increases a person’s attention span and elevates his or her mood.
When used together, caffeine and L-theanine reduce the increased cerebral blood pressure produced by caffeine alone.
The B-12 in the product leads to a lower risk of depression.
The B-6 in Sprint is shown to improve both the long-term and short-term memory. Also, verbal processing improves.
The product offers neuroprotection and lowers the risk of headaches.
Sprint enhances the memory and reaction times.
The L-tyrosine in the product acts as a precursor for the neurotransmitters related to focusing, mood elevations, and alertness.
As you can see, the benefits for both Rush and Sprint make it possible for you to thrive during the day without worrying about the effects of physical and mental fatigue.
Side Effects
Any side effects experienced by users of Rush or Sprint Nootrobox usually relate to the dosage amount. For example, if you use Sprint and experience headaches or some nervousness, you may be overly sensitive to caffeine and need to adjust your dosage.
Rush does not contain caffeine. Therefore, the complaints related to this product have more to do with the efficacy. Some users feel they need a larger dose.
However, Rush is designed for long-term use. As a result, you have to be more patient if you want to continue taking the supplement. Sometimes, it takes a little longer for you to experience the brain-boost you expect.
Customer Complaints
Most of the customer complaints about Rush or Sprint Nootrobox relate to overdosing or under-dosing. In some cases, you just need to adjust the dose so it feels comfortable for you.
For example, the dosage requirement for Rise is to take one capsule in the morning and the other capsule with an afternoon snack. The manufacturer recommends that you take Rise with a meal, as the Bacopa Monnieri in the product can be better absorbed when it is taken with fatty foods.
On the other hand, users who took Sprint who had complaints said the product made them nauseous. Again, it is usually connected with the dosage that is being taken. Some people, who are overly sensitive to the caffeine in Sprint, are better off taking a smaller dose or taking a caffeine-free nootropic, such as Rush.
Reviews: What Customers Say About It
Generally, customers have good things to say about Nootrobox products. Purchasers who used Rise commented as follows:
“[Rise] took [an] edge off my work stress and I found myself better able to power through mundane . . . tasks at work. [The supplement] does not contain any stimulants, and I did not feel an energy boost, but it did . . . aid my focus.”
I felt calm and level-headed when [I took Rise], but no more energetic than normal.
[Rise] is a stimulant-free supplement, so it may be a good option for [someone who is new to] nootropics or anyone who is sensitive to caffeine.”
Positive reviews for Sprint included the following comments:
“Love this product – long duration and no crash afterward.”
“I take this product as soon as I wake up before a morning workout and it works great to quickly get me going. I do not feel jittery at all . . . just sharper and more awake.”
“Took Sprint on an empty stomach, great lasting energy, [and] no jitters. Highly recommended.”
One limo drivers said he took Sprint to help him stay awake at work. He said, “Excellent! Will be buying the 60-count.” One lady also added that Sprint “Gets me in the zone! Recommended.”
Money Back Guarantee?
All of the Nootrobox products come with a money-back guarantee. If you order from the manufacturer’s website, make sure you confirm the guarantee when you place the order. You can use the website’s chat line for verification.
Final Conclusion
While Rush Nootrobox is ideal for anyone who wants to skip the caffeine to focus more clearly, Sprint Nootrobox is the product to choose if you want to feel more energetic and experience more clarity and concentration when working.
Rush Nootrobox should be used by people who want to optimize the long-term effects of the brain-boosting product while Sprint is designed for short-term yet noticeable results. Either way, you will receive enhanced mental performance and energy without any feelings of nervousness or anxiety.
If you have been used to drinking coffee, you should choose Sprint Nootrobox as a substitute. The L-theanine in the substance will keep you from feeling jittery or crashing. On the other hand, if you are overly sensitive to caffeine or are just becoming familiar with nootropic products, you may want to select Rush Nootrobox.
The only drawback with Rush Nootrobox is the fact you should take the supplement with meals. One of the ingredients, Bacopa Monnieri, is better absorbed in the digestive tract when it is eaten with a healthy fat.
If you want to familiarize yourself with the advantages of nootropic products, choosing Nootrobox supplements is a good place to begin. Whether you opt for Rush Nootrobox or Sprint Nootrobox, your cognitive abilities will improve and you will experience better brain health.
Where to Buy
You can purchase Rush or Sprint Nootrobox on either the manufacturer’s website or on Amazon.com. All the transactions on the manufacturer’s website are encrypted and secure. You can either buy the products separately or enroll in a monthly subscription plan.
Our Top Brain Enhancement Supplements
Instance 1
Editor Rating
Rated 3 stars
Good
60%
Nootrobox
Reviewed by: NeuroHacks
Published on: May 22, 2018
Last modified: September 13, 2018
Last Updated on September 13, 2018
Our Top Picks
Where To Buy Nootropics
Racetam Nootropics
Home
About Us
Careers
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact
Menu
Home
About Us
Careers
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact
Recent Posts
If You’re Wondering, “Does The Limitless Pill Exist in Real Life?” Then Read This To Discover The Name of The Closest Drug to NZT-48 and Where To Buy It Online: Modafinil
July 16, 2018
Where To Buy Adrafinil: The Top 3 Places to Purchase
June 15, 2018
5 Natural Herbal Supplements That Eliminate Brain Fog and Boost Mental Clarity
May 24, 2018
What is neurohacks?
Established in 2016, NeuroHacks is a free resource providing knowledge, nutrition, and tools to help you think clearer, focus longer, and be more effective.
connect with us
Facebook Twitter Google-plus
0 Shares
Share
Tweet
Share
Pin