What to Do if Your Child Has a Fever
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
What to Do if Your Child Has a Fever
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Kids' Health
Fever
Cold & Flu
Chicken Pox
Childhood Obesity & Overweight Kids
Head Lice
Measles
Kids' Skin Health
Common Childhood Infections
Commonly Prescribed Drugs
Teen Health Issues
Special Needs Health Issues
Preemie Health Issues
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Kids' Health Fever
What to Do if Your Child Has a Fever
Print
By Vincent Iannelli, MD | Medically reviewed by Joel Forman, MD
Updated February 21, 2019
Tim Hale/Photolibrary/Getty Images
More in Kids' Health
Fever
Cold & Flu
Chicken Pox
Childhood Obesity & Overweight Kids
Head Lice
Measles
Kids' Skin Health
Common Childhood Infections
Commonly Prescribed Drugs
Teen Health Issues
Special Needs Health Issues
Preemie Health Issues
View All
Parents often worry when their child gets a fever—and understandably so. You never want to see your child ill or spiking a temperature that could be a sign of something concerning. But research actually shows that many parents may get over-concerned by or overreact to their kids' fevers. This happens often enough, in fact, that there's a term for it: fever phobia. One 2016 study finds that it is very common among parents of all backgrounds and socioeconomic statuses.
It is important to remember fever is a symptom, much like a cough, runny nose, or a sore throat. And most importantly, the degree of fever doesn't tell you how sick your child is.
What Is a Fever?
Fever is a rise in your child's body temperature above normal levels. The American Academy of Pediatrics describes fever as "a positive sign that the body is fighting infection." Fever is thought to help interfere with the growth of some infections and help boost the body's immune system response.
Fever occurs in response to certain fever-inducing substances called pyrogens. These are either substances already inside the body that are released by cells in response to infections, or they are germs that cause infection, including bacteria, viruses, and toxins. In response to the pyrogens, chemicals inside your child's body work to raise the body's thermostat.
Though normal body temperature is 98.6 degrees F, your child technically has a fever only when the thermometer reads 100.4 degrees F or above.
Tips for Taking Your Child's Temperature
Causes
Most parents think 'infection' when their child has a fever, but it is important to keep in mind that various conditions cause fever.
Conditions that cause fever include:
Viral infections (flu, cold, RSV, roseola, chicken pox, etc.)
Bacterial infections (ear infections, strep throat, scarlet fever, pneumonia, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, urinary tract infections, etc.)
Other infections, including parasites (malaria) and fungal infections
Rheumatic diseases, such as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and lupus
Cancer (such as leukemia or lymphoma)
Familial Mediterranean fever, cyclic neutropenia, Kawasaki disease, periodic fever syndrome, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, and adenopathy (PFAPA)
Fever can also be a side effect of medication use (drug fever), a blood transfusion, or vaccines.
Even though this is a long list of possible causes of fever, keep in mind that simple viral infections are the most common cause of most fevers in children. It is, however, a good idea to see your pediatrician if your child has a prolonged fever or frequent fevers.
Taking Your Child's Temperature
There are many types of thermometers, and which you use largely comes down to circumstance and personal preference.
Although temporal thermometers (which you simply scan across your child's forehead, even when they are sleeping) and ear thermometers are becoming popular among parents because they are fast and easy to use, they can be expensive. More simple, mercury-free digital thermometers are much less costly but do take longer to get a reading, which can be a problem if you have a fussy child who won't stay still.
Rectal thermometers may be preferred in certain cases, such as when an infant is very ill.
Whichever you choose, be sure that you know how to properly use it so you get an accurate reading.
The Best Thermometers
Treatment
If your child does indeed have a fever, you may want to consider giving an over-the-counter (OTC) fever reducer if he or she is irritable or uncomfortable. If fever isn't bothering your child, this isn't necessary.
Common fever reducers you can give to children include Tylenol (acetaminophen) and Motrin or Advil (ibuprofen), although ibuprofen is usually only given to infants over 6 months of age.
Aspirin should not be given to a child or teen for fever or pain relief as it may trigger a rare, but possibly fatal condition called Reye’s syndrome.
Be sure your child is drinking extra fluids. He or she may also feel more comfortable after taking a lukewarm sponge bath and changing into lighter clothing.
When to Call the Pediatrician
You can usually treat your child’s fever at home with these treatments. But you should call the pediatrician if your child seems sick (e.g., has trouble breathing, is lethargic, has a severe headache) and when:
An infant under 2 to 3 months old has a temperature at or above 100.4 degrees F
An infant that is 3 to 6 months old has a temperature at or above 101 degrees F
An infant 6 to 12 months old has a temperature at or above 103 degrees F
A child over 12 months old has a temperature at or above 103 degrees F and the fever does not improve with home remedies and a fever reducer
When to Go to the ER
Though less common, there are times where a fever means a serious infection. If you cannot reach your pediatrician for advice as to whether or not to head to the emergency room, follow these guidelines:
Newborns to age 3 months: A baby under 3 months should be taken to the ER for a temperature of 100.4 degrees F or higher or a fever accompanied by difficulty waking up, problems with breathing, a rash, vomiting, and/or non-stop crying.
Ages 3 months to 3 years: Children ages 3 months to 3 years should be taken to the ER for temperatures of 102.2 degrees F or higher. Babies and toddlers who are unable to keep fluids down are not urinating, have difficulty waking up, are inconsolable, have a rash, and/or have breathing problems need emergency care. A child who is not up-to-date on vaccinations should also be taken to the ER for a high fever.
Ages 3 and up: A child who a temperature of 102 degrees F for two or more days needs immediate medical attention. A fever accompanied by breathing or swallowing problems, problems with urination, abdominal pain, rash, stiff neck, and/or problems with waking up warrants a trip to the emergency room. Lastly, a child age 3 or older who is behind on vaccinations with a fever that has lasted for two or more days should be taken to an emergency room.
With older children, you can make a determination on whether a trip to the ER is necessary based on their behavior and activity level. Your child’s behavior can give you a good idea of how sick they may be.
Your child’s fever is probably not concerning if he or she:
Is still eating and drinking well
Is alert and happy
Is still playing
Has normal skin color
Looks well when the fever has subsided
Even if your child is not eating well, as long as they are eating something, taking in fluids, and urinating, chances are a trip to the emergency room isn’t necessary.
When to Call 911
Immediate medical attention is necessary in certain situations. Call for an ambulance if your child:
Cannot be awakened
Seems confused
Cannot walk or is struggling to move
Is having severe breathing struggles
Has blue lips, tongue, or nails
Has a very bad headache
Has a seizure
A Word From Verywell
Seeing a thermometer register 100.5 degrees F, for example, should certainly get your attention. But it is not necessarily reason for panic. Unless your child has heat stroke, it is unlikely that your child's temperature will get high enough to be dangerous.
If your child experiences fever with other symptoms—sore throat or rash, for example—you should call their doctor to see if a visit is warranted. Persistent and frequent fevers, with or without additional symptoms, should also be brought to the attention of your child’s doctor.
All of this said, a parent's gut-check isn't something to be ignored. Keep the above in mind when deciding on next steps, but always seek the advice of a physician if you're just not sure what to do.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Get diet and wellness tips to help your kids stay healthy and happy.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
American Academy of Pediatrics. Fever and Your Baby. Updated August 3, 2016.
Gunduz S, Usak E, Koksal T, et al. Why Fever Phobia Is Still Common? Iran Red Crescent Med J. 2016 Jun 5;18(8): e23827. doi: 10.5812/ircmj.23827.
Lim T. Cleveland Clinic. Kids’ Fevers: When to Worry, When to Relax. Published May 12, 2015.
Medline Plus. When your baby or infant has a fever. Updated October 18, 2017.
Murren-Boezem J. The Nemours Foundation. Fevers. Updated September 2018.
Continue Reading
Article
What You Should Know About Babies and Fevers
Article
What to Know About Checking Your Child's Temperature
Article
How to Know If Your Child Has the Flu
Article
4 Safe Ideas to Bring Down a Fever - and 3 Dangerous Ones
Article
Need Help Getting Over Fever Phobia?
Article
The Symptoms of Roseola Can Become Dangerous for Children
Article
Why Babies With Fever May Need a Spinal Tap
Article
What to Do When Your Baby Gets the Flu
Article
Fever Symptoms in Childhood Illnesses
Article
When to Be Concerned About Your Child's Cough and Concerning Coughs
Article
When to Take Your Sick Child to the Doctor
Article
Know the Reasons, Risks and Benefits of Ear Tubes in Kids
Article
How to Be Prepared If Traveling With a Sick Child
Article
Preparing the School for Your Child With Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome
List
7 Ways to Protect Your Baby From Cold and Flu
Article
How to Find Head Lice in Your Child's Hair
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more