Kefir: Benefits and risks
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Seven benefits of kefir
Last reviewed	 Thu 13 July 2017	 Last reviewed	Thu 13 Jul 2017
By Megan Ware RDN LD
Reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD
Table of contents
What is kefir?
Seven benefits
Making kefir at home
Risks and considerations
Kefir is consumed around the world and has been for centuries. It is a fermented milk drink developed in the northern Caucasus Mountains, according to popular belief.
The name Kefir comes from the Turkish word keyif, which refers to the "good feeling" a person gets after they have drunk it.
Kefir has been popular in parts of Europe and Asia for many years but has only recently started gaining popularity in the United States, due to the growing interest in probiotics and gut health.
What is kefir?
Kefir is made using bacteria, giving it probiotic qualities. Probiotics are attributed with supporting healthy digestive functions.
While yogurt is the fermentation of bacteria in milk, kefir is a combination of bacteria and yeast fermentations. The combination of bacteria and yeast is called "kefir grain."
Kefir grains are not typical grains, such as wheat or rice, and do not contain gluten. Milk is combined with the kefir grains and stored in a warm area to "culture," producing the kefir beverage.
Kefir has a tart and tangy flavor, and a consistency similar to a drinkable yogurt. Due to the fermentation process, kefir may taste slightly carbonated.
Many of kefir's health benefits are attributed to its probiotic content. Probiotics, or "good bacteria," are living organisms that can help maintain regular bowel movements, treat certain digestive conditions, and support the immune system.
Types
While kefir is typically made from cow's milk, it can also be produced from the milk of other animals, such as goats or sheep, or from non-dairy milks.
Kefir made from cow's milk is available in non-fat, low-fat, and whole milk varieties.
Kefir is also available in plain and flavored varieties.
Seven benefits
Kefir consumption is still being researched, but the potential benefits include:
1. Blood sugar control
In 2015, a small study compared the effects of consuming kefir and conventionally fermented milk on blood sugar levels in people with diabetes.
Participants who consumed the kefir had significantly lower fasting blood sugar levels than those who consumed the conventionally fermented milk.
Participants in the kefir group also had decreased hemoglobin A1c values, which are a measurement of blood sugar management over 3 months.
2. Lower cholesterol
A 2017 study looked at changes in cholesterol levels among women drinking low-fat milk or kefir. The participants drank either 2 servings a day of low-fat milk, 4 servings a day of low-fat milk, or 4 servings a day of kefir.
After 8 weeks, those who drank kefir showed significant decreases in their total and their "bad cholesterol" levels compared to those who drank only 2 servings per day of low-fat milk. Participants who consumed 4 servings per day of low-fat milk also had lowered cholesterol levels.
The probiotics in kefir may play a role in how much cholesterol the body absorbs from food. They may also affect how the body produces, processes, and uses cholesterol.
3. Increased nutrition
The nutrients in kefir depend on the type of milk used to make it. Generally, it is a good source of protein, calcium, and potassium. Some store-bought brands are fortified with vitamin D, as well.
4. Improved lactose tolerance
People with lactose intolerance may be able to consume kefir without experiencing symptoms, as the bacteria present in kefir break down much of the lactose.
The leading brand of kefir in the U.S. claims to be 99 percent lactose-free.
A small study in 2003 concluded that the consumption of kefir improved lactose digestion over time, and could potentially be used to help overcome lactose intolerance. It noted that flavored kefir produced more adverse symptoms that plain kefir, probably due to added sugars in the flavored product.
5. Improved stomach health
Kefir may be able to help treat digestive issues, such as diarrhea or lactose intolerance.
The stomach contains both good and bad bacteria. Maintaining a balance between them is an important part of keeping the stomach healthy. Diseases, infections, and some medications, such as antibiotics, can upset this balance.
Probiotics are similar to the good bacteria found naturally in the digestive tract and may help maintain a healthy balance.
There is some evidence that probiotic foods, such as kefir, can help treat diarrhea caused by an infection or antibiotics.
One review cited the use of kefir to aid the treatment of peptic ulcers in the stomach and small intestine.
6. Healing properties
Laboratory studies have shown kefir may have antibacterial and antifungal properties, although more investigation is needed.
Research shows that kefir has the potential to be beneficial against gastroenteritis, vaginal infections, and yeast infections.
A 2016 review reported that kefir lessened the severity of symptoms in mice infected with a parasite. Another review demonstrated beneficial effects of kefir on mice for wound healing and reduced tumor growth.
7. Weight control
Another study reported that kefir consumption reduced body weight and total cholesterol in obese mice. However, more research on people is required.
Making kefir at home
Kefir is made using the fermentations of yeast and bacteria. This mixture creates kefir grains, which can be combined with milk to create a tangy drink.
A person can make kefir at home in a clean environment. Utensils, cooking equipment, and a person's hands should be washed thoroughly with soap and water before starting.
You will need:
active kefir grains
your preferred type of milk
a glass jar
a paper coffee filter or cheesecloth
a rubber band
a silicone spatula or wooden spoon (non-metal stirring utensil)
a non-metal mesh strainer
Combine 1 teaspoon of kefir grains for every cup of milk into a glass jar. Cover the jar with the paper coffee filter and secure with a rubber band. Store the jar in a warm place around 70°F for 12-48 hours, depending on your taste and the warmth of the room.
Once the milk has thickened and has a tangy taste, strain the kefir into a storage container. Cover tightly and store for up to 1 week.
There are a few tips to be aware of when making kefir at home:
Exposure to metal can weaken the kefir grains, so avoid metal utensils.
Temperatures above 90 °F can cause the milk to spoil.
Keep the jar away from direct sunlight.
The strained kefir grains can be kept to make new batches.
Shake it if it starts to separate while being stored.
To make a fruit-flavored kefir, chop up fruit and add it to the strained kefir. Let it sit for an additional 24 hours. Re-strain if desired.
How to use kefir
Kefir can be used in many of the ways milk and yogurts is used.
It can be drunk as a beverage, used as the blending liquid in a smoothie, or poured over cereal or oats. Kefir can also be used in baked goods, soups, dips, or salad dressings, though heat may significantly decrease probiotic concentration.
Risks and considerations
Kefir is safe to consume, but a person must consider certain factors before adding it to a regular diet.
While people who are lactose intolerant may be able to drink kefir without symptoms, others with a milk allergy should not consume kefir made from dairy milk, as it can cause an allergic reaction.
Since kefir is made from milk, it contains some sugar. Some pre-packaged, flavored kefirs have high amounts of added sugar.
People with diabetes should be especially careful to read the label and stick to plain varieties without added sugar.
When made traditionally, kefir may contain trace amounts of alcohol. Many commercial brands of kefir are alcohol-free.
Related coverage
Could yogurt help lower high blood pressure? A study finds women who ate at least five yogurt portions per week had a lower risk of developing high blood pressure; the link was strongest for those on a healthy diet. Read now
What are the best foods for weight loss? A look at some of the best foods for weight loss. Included is detail on what foods to incorporate into your diet and why they work. Read now
Everything you need to know about yogurt Yogurt is packed with nutrients that can include calcium and magnesium, good bacteria, and protein. But not all yogurts are as healthy as each other. In this article, we explain the good and the bad, and what makes the various types of yogurts different. Find out why some may benefit health and others are best avoided. Read now
Can yogurt treat a yeast infection? Yogurt is a popular home remedy for yeast infections, and research supports its use. Learn how it works, how to use it, and when to see a doctor here. Read now
Low-fat dairy intake may raise Parkinson's risk Researchers have uncovered a link between higher intake of low-fat dairy products - particularly skim or low-fat milk - and a greater risk of Parkinson's. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Thu 13 July 2017.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Bourrie, B. C. T., Willing, B. P., & Cotter, P. D. (2016, May 4). The microbiota and health promoting characteristics of the fermented beverage kefir. Frontiers in Microbiology, 7, 647. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4854945/
Choi, J. W., Kang, H. W., Lim, W. C., Kim, M. K., Lee, I. Y., & Cho, H. Y. (2017, May). Kefir prevented excess fat accumulation in diet-induced obese mice [Abstract]. Bioscience, Biotechnology, & Biochemistry, 81(5), 958-965. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28110622
De Oliveira Leite, A. M., Miguel, M. A. L., Peixoto, R. S., Rosado, A. S., Silva, J. T., & Paschoalin, V. M.F. (2013, October 30). Microbiological, technological and therapeutic properties of kefir: a natural probiotic beverage. Brazilian Journal of Microbiology, 44(2), 341-349. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3833126/
Fathi, Y., Ghodrati, N., Zibaeenezhad, M-J., & Faghih, S. (2017, February). Kefir drink causes a significant yet similar improvement in serum lipid profile, compared with low-fat milk, in a dairy-rich diet in overweight or obese premenopausal women: A randomized controlled trial. Journal of Clinical Lipidology, 11(1), 136-146. Retrieved from http://www.lipidjournal.com/article/S1933-2874(16)30414-7/fulltext
Hertzier, S. R., & Clancy, S. M. (2003, May). Kefir improves lactose digestion and tolerance in adults with lactose maldigestion [Abstract]. Journal of the American Dietetic Association, 103(5), 582-587. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12728216
Ostadrahimi, A., Taghizadeh, A., Mobasseri, M., Farrin, N., Payahoo, L., Beyramalipoor Gheshlaghi, Z., & Vahedjabbari, M. (2015, February). Effect of probiotic fermented milk (kefir) on glycemic control and lipid profile in type 2 diabetic patients: A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial. Iranian Journal of Public Health, 44(2), 228–237. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4401881/
Probiotics: In depth. (2016, October). Retrieved from https://nccih.nih.gov/health/probiotics/introduction.htm
Rosa, D. D., Manoela, M. S. D., Grześkowiak, Ł. M., Reis, S. A., Conceição, L. L., & do Carmo G. Peluzio, M. (2017, June). Milk kefir: Nutritional, microbiological and health benefits [Abstract]. Nutrition Research Reviews, 30(1), 82-96. Retrieved from https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/nutrition-research-reviews/article/milk-kefir-nutritional-microbiological-and-health-benefits/1393DC2B8E5F08B0BE7BD58F030D387B
Yeager, D. (2016, February). What's trending in the dairy aisle? Today's Dietitian, 18(2), 30. Retrieved from http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/0216p30.shtml
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Megan Ware RDN LD. "Seven benefits of kefir." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 13 Jul. 2017. Web.
24 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318353.php>
APA
Megan Ware RDN LD. (2017, July 13). "Seven benefits of kefir." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318353.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
For the first time, scientists have shown that general anesthetics activate the same small group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Using small molecules to regenerate heart tissue
New research in mice uses gene-regulating molecules called microRNAs to repair heart tissue after an adverse cardiovascular event such as a heart attack.
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318353.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);