Access Health News Lyme Disease: The Mysterious U.S. Endemic
left
right
Home
News At A Glance
Health & Wellness
Dental Health and its Impact on Overall Health Understanding Opioid Addiction Healthier Children, Better Education Women, We Must Guard Our Hearts. Medical Marijuana vs. Opioids: A Look at the Pros and Cons CDC: Workplace Secondhand Smoke Exposure During Pregnancy HCC to Launch Mobile Dental Unit Pediatricians Warn Against Electronic Cigarettes Mental Health No Judgement Food for Thought: Some Kids Still Hungry During the Holidays What to Do if Your Partner is Diagnosed with Prostate Cancer Erasing 30 Years of Fear Sexually Active Teens At Risk for STIs Binge Drinking Effects of Marijuana Use During Pregnancy Remain Illusive Women and Body Image Cannabis- Some Say Its a Viable Opioid Alternative to Manage Pain Get Your Flu Shot at a Live Well Center Near You Meditation Helps Veterans with PTSD Healthy Aging: Establishing Your Second Act Surviving Breast Cancer A Story of Suicide in America and Rural Communities Farmers and Health Insurance: Affordable Coverage is Out of Reach A Blue Christmas Medical Marijuana May Be Legal But Too Early to Exhale Geriatric Depression: More Complex Than a Normal Sign of Aging The Pet Effect Perimenopause and You Baby Boomers at Risk for Hep C through No Fault of Their Own A Look at Tobacco&apos;s Dark History Sexually Transmitted Diseases are on the Rise Among Older Adults The Redefinition of Obesity Baby Boomers at Risk for Hep C Lyme Disease: The Mysterious U.S. Endemic Caring for a Diabetic Dog Teen Pregnancy Rate of Decline Slower in Rural Communities Get Healthy, Get Fit Surprise Rheumatoid Arthritis Discovery Points to New Treatment for Joint Inflammation Fighting the Good Fight Frail Seniors Going Without Desperately Needed In-home Healthcare, Study Finds New Live Well Psychiatrist Talks About Anxiety Disorders and Mental Health Stigma Heartburn or Heart Attack? When to Sound the Alarm Live Well Community Health Center in Buckner Welcomes a New Nurse Practitioner and Dentist, Both Bring Large Doses Of Compassionate Care It&apos;s Okay to Not be Okay Six Ways to Support Local Food and Farmers GMOs: The Science of Food Stress Management on the Farm is Essential to the Health Of Farmers Living Autistic: The Kinnard&apos;s Share Their Story CDC: Indoor Tanning is Not Safe The Truth About Mental Illness Energry Drinks: Helpful Insights to Share with Your Teen Telehealth 300,000 Left Behind Jury&apos;s Out out on e-Cigs Living with ADHD The Silent War New Insights Into the Long-Term Toll of Opioids Men and Depression Treating Teen Depression Might Improve Mental Health Of Parents, Too Bleak New Estimates in Drug Epidemic: A Record 72,000 Overdose Deaths in 2017 Caring for Others: Resources to Help You Cervical Cancer National Diabetes Month 2018 Diabetes and Women Preventing Osteoporosis: Questions for the doctor Thyroid Disease Bleeding Disorders in Women Listeria - Pregnant Women and Newborns
News
HCC Live Well Community Health Clinics Designated as Veterans Choice Program Providers Melanie Corporon: She&apos;s Back! Marketplace Enrollment Ends January 31, 2017 Bias and Addiction While Politicians Scrap Over Obamacare Health Care Gets Real for the Rest of Us Flakka The $5 Insanity Drug Slated to Create a Culture of Psychosis Young, Gifted & Homeless - Part 2 Guinness Book&apos;s Gingerbread Lane has Local Roots CTE New Spin on War on Poverty Redefining Poor in the U.S. Interstate Trafficking The Abuser The Victim and Us Sexism Children Who Cut CASA Helps Abused and Neglected Children Get a &apos;Seat at the Table&apos; Opioids Pose Huge Public Health Threat with No Easy Answer Seniors Have a Few More Weeks to Change Medicare Plans Climate Change: An Unmitigated Fact or Pronounced Lie? Medicaid Adds Work Requirement Life Expectancy Decreasing for White Americans McCorkendale Farms: It&apos;s a Family Affair Legalizing Marijuana Health Insurance Marketplace is Open Helping the Hands that Help Feed Us 1914 Christmas Truce Holds Special Significance Today Fort Osage School District&apos;s Farm to Fort Program Brings New Opportunities ADHD and Drug Use The Rape Culture and College Campuses : A Long, Hard Road Ahead Young, Gifted & Homeless - Part 1 Missouri Medicaid Expansion: Let&apos;s Shift Power to the People Tax Season and Your Health Insurance HCC Talks Rural Health Medicare 101 Just the Facts to Support Informed Decisions Richey Chiropractic: You&apos;re Not Just a Patient, You&apos;re Family Connecting People and Resources LCCSF HCC and Partners Bring Transportation for Medical Visits to Lafayette County HCC Board Member Suzanne Gladney Advocates for Migrant workers Dr. Venkatesh Joins the Live Well Team as a Child Psychiatrist Mentally Ill Forfeit Treatment for Prison Sentences Affordable Care Act: America&apos;s New Reality CTC DECA State Qualifiers Protecting Our Girls: Trafficking on the Interstate Administrators of the Year Recognized CTC at Fort Osage Celebrates 50 Years Fort Osage Fire Protection District Updated ISO ratings Why Cripple the U.S. Economy with Tariffs When Its Hitting Full Stride? Land of the Feminine Forensics Offer Rape Victims a Roadmap to Justice Heroin Makes a Comeback No Human is Illegal Battered Justice Missouri Easy Target for Smoke-free Policies Vulnerable Rural Hospitals Face Tough Decisions On Questionable Billing Schemes Administration slashes grants to help Americans get Affordable Care Act coverage
Lifestyle
Holiday Meal Prep Shortcuts
Contact Us
About Us
left
right
Grace Advertising
Health Care Collaborative of Rural Missouri
Health Insurance Marketplace
Health Care Foundation
Lyme Disease: The Mysterious U.S. Endemic
Apr 01, 2019
Share
Each year, more than 30,000 cases of Lyme disease are reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) by state health departments and the District of Columbia. However, studies suggest the actual number of individuals diagnosed with the disease is closer to 300,000.
Even with these high numbers, a national survey reported nearly 20 percent of individuals surveyed in areas where the disease is common were unaware of the risk. Although Lyme disease can occur nearly anywhere in the United States, CDC historical data maps show it is most prevalent in the Northeast, the Upper Midwest, and along the Pacific Coast.
According to the American Lyme Disease Foundation, Inc. (ALDF), Lyme disease is an infection caused by Borrelia burgdorferi, a type of bacterium called a spirochete that is carried by deer ticks. An infected tick can transfer the bacterium to both the humans and animals it bites. If left untreated, the bacterium travels through the bloodstream, establishes itself in various body tissues, and can cause several symptoms, some of which are severe.
Symptoms of early Lyme disease may present as a flu-like illness with fever, chills, sweats, muscle aches, fatigue, nausea, and joint pain, according to LymeDisease.org. Some patients experience a rash or Bell’s palsy (facial drooping). Although a rash formed into a bull’s-eye shape is considered a characteristic of Lyme disease, LymeDisease.org reports many individuals develop a different kind of Lyme rash – or no rash at all.
Additionally, ALDF reports that as the spirochete continues to spread throughout the body, other symptoms can occur, including severe fatigue, a stiff/aching neck, and peripheral nervous system (PNS) involvement such as tingling or numbness in the extremities can occur.
Although ticks and Lyme disease have been around for thousands of years, the disease was first recognized in the United States only few decades ago. In 1975, a group of children and adults in Lyme, Conn. (and surrounding areas) suffered puzzling and debilitating health issues. Their symptoms included swollen knees, paralysis, skin rashes, headaches, and severe chronic fatigue. Health officials assumed an insect bite caused the disease due to the high frequency of infections that appeared in the warmer months, coupled with the fact the area is near heavily wooded and sparsely settled areas. Despite these assumptions, this initial group of Lyme disease sufferers went years without definite answers.
Scientist Willy Burgdorfer finally established the connection between the disease and the deer tick in 1981, according to the Bay Area Lyme Foundation. The bacterium which causes the disease was named in his honor. In 2012, the CDC first placed Lyme disease in their Top 10 list of notifiable diseases. A notifiable disease is one for which regular, frequent, and timely information regarding individual cases is considered necessary for the prevention and control of the disease.
Today, the illness is one of America’s fastest growing vector-borne infections. Even so, some aspects of Lyme disease remain mysterious to medical communities and the public. Until recently, it hasn’t been widely discussed. Awareness has grown with help from several organizations and the countless celebrities who have gone public with their diagnoses.
Many of these celebrities find themselves in the chronic Lyme category, a stage of the disease with severe symptoms. Potentially debilitating indicators of later-stage Lyme disease may occur weeks, months, or in a few cases, years after a tick bite. The ALDF reports these symptoms include severe headaches, painful arthritis and swelling of joints, cardiac abnormalities, and central nervous system (CNS) involvement leading to cognitive (mental) disorders.
Acute Lyme and Post-Treatment Lyme Disease Syndrome (PTLDS), more commonly known as chronic Lyme, are different stages of the disease, and the symptoms vary greatly. “Acute Lyme refers to the disease that occurs right after initial exposure. That’s when people show up with a fever, muscle pain, rash, flu-like symptoms,” says Mark Soloski, Co-Director for Basic Research, Johns Hopkins Lyme Disease Clinical Research Center. PTLDS is defined as a set of persistent symptoms that happen 6-12 months after acute disease. “These are folks who have not only symptoms, but loss of functioning,” he said. “In simple terms, you can’t get out of bed in the morning.”
Lyme disease is hard to detect since the bacterium which causes the disease is nearly impossible to detect in the bloodstream. Like many other illnesses, the prognosis is best when Lyme disease is diagnosed and treated early. According to Johns Hopkins, most patients with early Lyme disease infection recover with antibiotics and return to their normal state of health. However, they report that a subgroup of patients suffers from ongoing symptoms even after standard antibiotic therapy, leading to PTLDS. PTLDS has been difficult for physicians to diagnose, and even proving its existence has been controversial.
The best defense against tick-borne illness is to avoid contact with ticks. WebMD provides these tips to reduce risks:
Avoid tick-infested areas, particularly in May, June, and July. Ticks tend to be near the ground, in leaf litter, grasses, bushes, and fallen logs.
Wear shoes, long pants tucked into socks or pant legs, and long sleeves when outside in areas where there are deer ticks.
Use insect repellent with 20 percent to 30 percent DEET around your ankles, other areas of bare skin, and clothes.
Check for ticks especially around the armpits, groin, scalp, belt line, neck and head after being in areas where there may be ticks.
Remove deer ticks on your skin as soon as you see them.
It’s important to quickly find and remove any ticks that may have latched onto the skin or clothing. If a tick bites the skin, it is crucial to remove it properly and call a health care provider. LymeDisease.org shares how to properly remove a tick:
Don’t squeeze, twist, or squash it. Don’t burn it with a match or cover it with Vaseline.
Use fine-point tweezers or a special tick-removing tool. Grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible. If you don’t have tweezers, protect your fingers with a tissue.
Pull the tick straight out with steady, even pressure.
Disinfect the bite area and wash your hands.
Save the tick for testing (alive if possible) in a small bottle or plastic bag with a green leaf or damp piece of tissue.
Label it with your name, date, site of bite and how long tick was attached.
To learn more about Lyme disease, check out these resources:
American Lyme Disease Foundation, Inc. (www.aldf.com)
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (www.cdc.gov/lyme)
LymeDisease.org (www.lymedisease.org)
Mayo Clinic (www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/lyme-disease)
About the Writer
Rian Souders
Executive Assistant
Other articles from this writer
The demand for local food in the United States has risen drastically over the past decade. Direct sa
According to Kinsey Institute at Indiana University, today’s older adults are as sexually acti
As with any disease, the diagnosis of prostate cancer impacts the whole family. But unlike other dia
Latha Venkatesh, MD, board-certified in child, adolescent and adult psychiatry, has been helping chi
Meditation proved to work well for military veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in a
Each year, more than 30,000 cases of Lyme disease are reported to the Centers for Disease Control an
Children at the Fort Osage School District are eating local, fresh produce as a part of the Farm
Brett Goligoski knew she wanted to pursue a career in the agriculture industry, but reconsidered bec
0 Comments
Leave a reply
Message
Seal Starfish Fox Squirrel Owl Reindeer Eagle
POPULAR
RECENT
COMMENTS
Healthier Children, Better Education
Jan 01, 2019
Children Who Cut
Feb 01, 2019
Meditation Helps Veterans with PTSD
Feb 01, 2019
Helping the Hands that Help Feed Us
Nov 02, 2018
Young, Gifted & Homeless - Part 1
Nov 02, 2018
Young, Gifted & Homeless - Part 2
Cannabis- Some Say Its a Viable Opioid Alternative to Manage Pain
Nov 02, 2018
A Look at Tobacco&apos;s Dark History
Nov 02, 2018
Sexually Transmitted Diseases are on the Rise Among Older Adults
Jan 01, 2019
Protecting Our Girls: Trafficking on the Interstate
Jan 01, 2019
Its Okay to Not be Okay
Jan 01, 2019
Jenn Gambers says:
I'd like to add that the media perpetuates a common physical stereotype of addicts and that is not always true. If they'd all look like what the media
Jenn Gambers says:
I'd like to add that the media perpetuates a common physical stereotype of addicts and that is not always true. If they'd all look like what the media
Mary Ellen says:
Thank you, Dr. Canty, for approaching this issue with an open mind. While concussions are a big topic right now, I agree that they are nothing new, an
Social Networks
Subscribe via email
Enter your email address
Archives
December 2018 Issue
November 2018 Issue
March 2019 Issue
February 2019 Issue
January 2019 Issue
Tags
Domestic Violence Womens Health Mental Health Illicit Drugs
Top â??
Site Information
accessHealthNews.net
325 Broadway
Lexington, MO 64067
Current Issue
Latest Tweets
Tweets by @accessHealth1