Light Visors - Do They Actually Work? |
SAD Lamp Reviews
#1 – NorthStar 10,000 Light Box Review
#2 – NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Review
#3 – Verilux HappyLight Deluxe Sunshine Simulator
#4 – Lightphoria 10,000 LUX Energy Light Lamp Review
#5 – Philips HF3520 Wake Up Light Review
Choosing A Light Therapy Box
Seasonal Affective Disorder
SAD Symptoms
About
Contact
Blog
Light Visors – Do They Actually Work?
admin October 8, 2014
A Light Visor is one type of device that you will find referenced in the interesting world of phototherapy, but probably not as peculiar a product as the Valkee ear buds. Visors that emit therapeutic light to ease the symptoms of depression have been on the market for quite a few years now. Essentially it’s a contraption that you wear attached to the bill of a hat which uses LEDs that shine towards your face to deliver light therapy.
They aren’t the most attractive looking gadget you will find, but the real question is whether or not they actually work or are something you should stay away from? Light visors are not nearly as popular a choice as using a SAD light box. In fact, in my research I found very few of these devices online, except for a handful on Amazon.
In 1993 a study was published from a clinical testing of light visors conducted at the National Institute of Mental Health. In this research, fifty-five patients were given the device to use. Some participants would use a rather low intensity visor that only emitted 400 LUX, while others were given another visor that put out 6000 LUX. The subjects were instructed to use the devices for 30 minutes every morning for a total of 1 week. The results were that 36% of the patients who used the low intensity visor felt a positive improvement in mood, while 56% of those who were given the 6000 LUX visor felt an improvement. The initial ruling was that it would appear that these visors both had a placebo affect on patients.
In another study carried out at the Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, participants received two weeks of treatment. In this study, two devices were used. The first was a red light that only emitted 30 LUX, while other subjects used a white light that put out 600 LUX. 39% of those who used the red light and 41% of those who used the white light showed a positive response. This study was conducted in 1995 and once again showed that the effect seemed to be that of a placebo.
Although certainly more research is required to form a conclusion about the efficacy of light visors, so far it seems that they aren’t as successful of a choice when compared to therapy light boxes.
This could be do to the lower intensities of light put out by the visors and possibly because the surface area of the lights is so much smaller than light boxes. One reason some people may opt for using a visor is because of the portability of these devices. They are typically very light weight and you can use them while going about daily tasks around the house. They can, however, also be pricey. Light boxes can be expensive as well, but there are enough on the market to choose from to give you more range in cost. Plus light boxes are usually capable of delivering 10,000 LUX, which some people may require, where as visors are not capable of this.
Light visors are designed to be positioned so that the light doesn’t point directly at the eyes, which could be very bad. Instead the light is directed just above the eyes on the brow level. But again, considering the small area of light delivery, your best bet might be to investigate a light box instead.
References:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8471127
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7625470
Facebook
Twitter
phototherapy	light therapy visor, light visors	Bookmark
Previous Article My Boyfriend Is Depressed – How Can I Help?
Next Article What Is The Circadian Rhythm?
#1 – Recommended
NorthStar 10,000 Light Box Review
Recently I wanted to take a closer look at the NorthStar 10,000 LUX light box and this is what I discovered. Pros: Lifetime Warranty to original Read Review
Lightphoria 10,000 LUX Energy Light Lamp Review
Rating: The Lightphoria 10,000 Lux Energy Light Lamp is a portable SAD light system that mimics real sunlight and does so in a compact and Read Review
NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Review
Rating: One of the most popular light therapy boxes on Amazon, the NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Light & Ion Therapy Lamp packs all of the Read Review
Verilux HappyLight Deluxe Sunshine Simulator
Rating: If it weren't for the price I would say that the Verilux HappyLight takes the cake, but I know that most people aren't going to want Read Review
Philips HF3520 Wake Up Light Review
Rating: The Philips HF3520 Wake-Up Light With Colored Sunrise Simulation is a star player in the Amazon marketplace and a #1 featured product Read Review
Things That May Interest You
Recent Posts
Feeling Stressed Every Day? Fix These 3 Things
4 Unique Sun Lamps For SAD This Season!
Waking Up With Anxiety In The Middle Of The Night?
Organifi Green Juice Review
5 Homemade Energy Drink Recipes
Categories
anxiety
circadian rhythm
depression
Diet & Nutrition
meditation
natural depression remedies
natural health
phototherapy
podcasts
psychotherapy
SAD
SAD lights
SAD therapy
seasonal affective disorder
sleep disorders
SSRIs
therapy
winter blues
Archives
October 2018
May 2018
September 2016
August 2015
July 2015
January 2015
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
I receive monetary compensation should you decide to purchase a product mentioned on this site by clicking on a link to a product.
I have no problem being transparent about this as I pride myself on writing good content that delivers to you information that is also important to me.
I get paid a small commission should you choose to buy a product after clicking through on one of my links linking to the product. This helps me cover the costs of running this site, but by law I must make sure that you know this.
Therefor you should also assume that any link on this site leading to a 3rd party website is an affiliate link, although they aren't always. I also make sure to only link to trusted sources, mainly Amazon.
I sincerely hope to point you in the right direction and help you find solutions for issues relating to depression, seasonal depression and anxiety, as I have also struggled with these issues throughout my life.
Best of luck in your quest for answers.
© 2019 . All rights reserved.
Flato by ThemeMeme