What to Do When You’ve Been Bitten by a Tick - Your Health Keys
Go to Top
(800) 888-4353info@unikeyhealth.com
Twitter
Facebook
Youtube
Your Health Keys is a go-to source for the latest news, tools and tips to educate and inspire healthy living. We believe health is one of our greatest gifts and are committed to helping others take control of their health for optimum wellness and longevity.
Body
Diet
News
Life
Mind
Body
Diet
News
Life
Mind
Your Health Keys/
Blog/
What to Do When You’ve Been Bitten by a Tick
Have This Breakfast For Summer Weight Loss
Is SIBO the Reason You Can’t Lose Weight?
Jun 28 2018
What to Do When You’ve Been Bitten by a Tick
Tick-borne illnesses are on the rise.
It’s no wonder people are concerned when they find a tick embedded in their skin. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the number of tick-borne illnesses being reported has more than doubled since 2004, with Lyme disease being the most prevalent. The number of cases of Lyme reported in 2016 totaled 36,429, but their experts estimate actual numbers were closer to 300,000. There have also been new diseases reported that ticks carry, from bacteria that cause life-threatening allergic reactions to beef, to a virus that cause deadly inflammation in the brain.
When you find a tick attached to yourself or a loved one, take the natural approach to remove the tick safely and head those diseases off at the pass.
The Right Way to Remove a Tick
There are several urban myths about how to remove a tick. These actually do more harm than good:
Covering with Vaseline to suffocate it
Soaking the tick in rubbing alcohol to get it to back out
Burning it with a match or cigarette
Scratching it off with your fingernail
Attaching cotton to the tick and pulling
Twisting the tick to remove
Applying essential oils to remove
All of these techniques stress the tick or put pressure on its body, which results in it regurgitating its contents into you, putting you at high risk for any diseases it’s carrying.
The goal of safe tick removal is to keep the entire tick intact without causing stress. The only safe tools to use are a pair of fine-toothed tweezers or a tick-removing hook. If the tick is in a hair-covered area, you can wet the surrounding hair to make it easier to see and grasp the tick. In the case of the tick removal tool, follow the directions included for effective removal.
If using tweezers, put gentle downward pressure on the surrounding skin and grasp the tick where it meets the skin. Do not squeeze, crush, or puncture the body of the tick or you run the risk of squeezing the tick’s toxins right into your bloodstream. Once the head is grasped, pull backwards gently but firmly, using even, steady pressure. If you are higher than skin level, you might break off the mouthparts, leaving them in the skin. These usually cause irritation and a tick granuloma can develop, which is a lump of tissue that can become infected or require surgery to remove.
It’s a good idea to save the tick in case you want to have it tested for Lyme and other tick-borne diseases. Place in a plastic ziplock bag with a square of moist paper towel.
After removing the tick, wash your hands and the affected area well. There have been no studies done on what to apply to the skin afterward to reduce the possibility of infection. I prefer painting the area with an iodine solution because this is what’s used to sterilize skin prior to surgery and there is a volume of research that supports its use in that setting. Any oil-based preparation like ointments or essential oils may trap infection inside and not allow the wound to cleanse itself.
Should You Get the Tick Tested?
It’s no secret there are Lyme-endemic areas of the country where your risk of the disease being present in the tick that bit you is much higher than it is in other areas of the country. But, Lyme has been documented all across the country now, and other tick diseases like Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Ehrlichiosis, and even the rare Powassan virus are on the rise, too. It can take 6 weeks for Lyme antibodies to be present in high enough amounts for a blood test to be positive, and by then, the damage is already being done. It makes sense to test the tick to see what you may have been exposed to and start the right treatment as early as possible if symptoms appear.
The risk of disease transmission increases the longer a tick has been attached. The saliva of the tick contains numbing anesthetic, anticoagulants to make the blood flow more easily, immune suppressors so the site doesn’t swell while it’s attached, and microorganisms like Lyme that can be transmitted right when it attaches. Though 24 hours of attachment is often cited as the time when transmission is most likely, studies have been done showing transmission of Lyme bacteria in less than this interval.
A study that was done in 2001 recommended a single 200 mg dose of doxycycline within 72 hours of the tick bite as a prophylaxis. They found it was over 90 percent effective in preventing Lyme. There were serious flaws with this study. First, all they looked for was the presence of the telltale erythema migrans rash that does not universally occur in people with Lyme disease. Also important is that antibody levels are lower in people who receive early treatment even when they are undertreated, so a negative blood test result could be considered a false negative. This point doesn’t relate as much to this study, however, because the testing wasn’t performed.
Since running out and getting antibiotics after every tick bite isn’t practical or good for your intestinal flora, having the tick tested may be your best option. Tick testing involves looking at the tick under a microscope to identify it, then doing a DNA probe to identify the microorganisms it’s carrying. If the tick tests positive for a disease, it doesn’t mean it has been transmitted to you, but you are at risk. If the tick tests negative, you can be confident you haven’t been exposed to those diseases.
The two tried and true labs in the US for tick testing are the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the University of Connecticut. Both have quick turnaround times and have good track records for accuracy, and are the labs that most of the tick testing sites actually use when you order through them.
Tick Bite Herbal Rx
Once you’ve removed the tick, it’s time to take some preventative measures to minimize or avoid infection of any kind. You’ve already generously swabbed the area with iodine solution, and may be anxiously awaiting your tick testing results. I recommend starting with a homeopathic remedy known as Ledum. Dissolve 1 pellet of Ledum 30c under the tongue daily for 2 days after removing the tick. If you’ve had a tick-borne illness before, have a strong suspicion you’re infected, or are in an endemic area, I recommend sage herbalist Stephen Buhner’s advice of 3000mg Astragalus for 30 days, then 1000 mg daily thereafter.
If at any point after a tick bite you develop fever, body aches, or rash, I strongly recommend seeking medical help and considering an antibiotic. Remember, antibodies may not be present until 6 weeks after the bite, but symptoms of infection can start within days. It’s important to go in educated and patiently explain your concerns to the health care provider you see. When these infections aren’t treated properly at the start and are allowed to progress and become more chronic, they can be debilitating and affect the quality of the rest of your life.
SHARE
Posted in: Body Tagged: lyme disease, tick 3 Comments
About James Templeton
James Templeton is a 30-year cancer survivor and health advocate who healed himself from a terminal diagnosis with the use of alternative medicine and healing modalities. As the founder of Uni Key Health Systems, James has since dedicated his life to helping others achieve optimum health and wellness. View all posts by James Templeton
Comments (3)
Alex P. June 28, 2018 - 5:21 pm Reply
I appreciate the step by step guide to removing ticks. These days it is so important how this is done and I’ve never done it. Good to know about the treatment options as well.
Teresa June 28, 2018 - 5:42 pm Reply
Thank you for this timely, helpful info! My dog groomer just told me that ticks are very prevalent in our area this year, so now I feel armed and ready “just in case”.
Michelle June 28, 2018 - 8:46 pm Reply
Thank you. Excellent info for me as I was ignorant of the correct way to remove a tick and how treat myself if needed.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search for:
Wellness News & Tips
Take control of your own health with the latest updates from Your Health Keys.
You may also like...
Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug
Recent Posts
Fueling Up with Fats April 19, 2019
Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug April 12, 2019
The Case for Carbs April 5, 2019
5 Must-Have Super Seeds March 28, 2019
The Healing Power of Green Superfoods March 22, 2019
Recent Comments
Bonnie on Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug
Thank you so much for informing us about this James! I had not heard abo...
Allorrah Be on Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug
Yes, I am wondering the same things... please help us further by respond...
Sabrina on Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug
Great information James! Thank you! And yes, I too would like to know mo...
Deb on Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug
I was wondering the same things as Rebecca. Looks like I should buy some...
Christine on Drug-Resistant Candida is the New Superbug
Excellent article. I am in New Zealand and work in retail pharmacy. Your...
About Your Health Keys Blog
Your Health Keys is a go-to source for the latest news, tools and tips to educate and inspire healthy living. We believe health is one of our greatest gifts and are committed to helping others take control of their health for optimum wellness and longevity.
Brought to you by UNI KEY Health
DISCLAIMER: Information on this website is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified healthcare professional and is not intended as medical advice.
Health Topics
Body
Diet
Life
News
Mind
James Talks
Contact Us
Wellness News & Tips
Take control of your own health with the latest updates from Your Health Keys.
© 2017 Uni Key Health Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Twitter
Facebook
Youtube