 My Skin Care Doctor - Treatment of Eczema
Dermatology & Laser Institute of Colorado
9695 S Yosemite Street, Suite 175
Lone Tree, Colorado 80124
720-344-5252
Menu
Home
Services
Our Services
Medical Dermatology
Acne
Eczema & Dry Skin
Hyperhidrosis
Lumps, Bumps & Cysts
Moles & Melanoma
PPP
Psoriasis
Rosacea
Skin Cancer
Warts
Cosmetic Dermatology
Acne Scars
Botox® & Kool-tox℠
Eye Lift
Dermal Fillers
Laser Hair Removal
Pigment & Brown Spots
Platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP)
SkinPen® Microneedling
Skin Tightening
Tattoo Removal
Veins & Redness
Wrinkle Treatment
Direct Pay
Healthcare Re-imagined
Direct Pay Practice - FAQ's
Fee Schedule
Payment Policy - FAQ's
About Us
About DLIC
Our Backstory
Our Team
Dr. Richard Ort, M.D.
Sheila Marquardt, LCA
Employment Opportunites
News & Events
DLIC News & Events
Specials
Education
Educational Videos
Questions To Ask Before Cosmetic Procedures
Signs of Aging How To Stop Time
Top 10 Ways To Prevent Skin Cancer
Colorado & Your Skin
6 Tips to Reduce Facial Wrinkles
Sun Protection: Questions and Answers
Vitamin D & the Sun
Testimonials
nV DermSpa
Forms
Contact Us
Medical Services - Eczema & Dry Skin
Eczema is a general term used for several common types of skin rashes, which share the features of skin irritation, redness, weeping, scaling, and itching. The two main drivers of eczema are skin barrier disruption and an exaggerated immune response. People who live in dry climates such as Denver, Colorado are more likely to develop eczema.
• Atopic dermatitis: Itchy, rashy skin which typically begins in childhood, often coexists with asthma and hay fever.
• Allergic contact dermatitis: a red, itchy, weepy reaction due to a contact allergy, such as poison ivy.
• Irritant dermatitis: a localized reaction where the skin has come into contact with something irritating, such as an acid, cleaner, or other chemical.
• Dyshidrotic eczema: clear, deep bumps and blisters on the palms and soles that itch and burn.
• Nummular eczema: coin-shaped patches of irritated skin that may be crusted, scaling, and itchy.
• Hand eczema: redness, dryness, scaling, and cracking of the skin on the hands, usually due to excess washing and harsh detergents or chemicals.
Treatment of Eczema
When eczema is due to contact allergy (such as poison ivy), avoidance of the offending allergen will usually prevent the rash from recurring. Individuals with a tendency toward chronic eczema must develop a good skin care routine, avoid things that lead to flares, and treat symptoms when they occur.
Skin Hydration
Taking a warm (not very hot) bath for 20 minutes, using a soap-free cleanser, followed by the application of an occlusive moisturizer, can retain water in the skin and give relief from itching. The newer ceramide-containing moisturizers (e.g. Cerave cream) can be very helpful. In Colorado, moisturizing is particularly important, and use of humidifiers in the winter months is recommended. For skin that is oozy or crusty, it can sometimes be helpful to add a small amount of bleach to the bathtub (a quarter cup of regular, not concentrated bleach to a half tub of water) for anti-bacterial purposes (bleach baths).
Protection from Flares
Some people can improve their eczema by avoiding allergens such as certain foods (e.g. eggs, peanuts, milk, soy, or wheat), dust mites, mold, pollen, and dog or cat dander. Eczema may also be worsened by irritants such as wool, soaps, perfumes, makeup, dust, or cigarette smoke.
Patch Testing
Patch testing is used to test a panel of allergens on the patient’s skin to check for any positive reactions. Many doctors will start with the TRUE Test but testing with additional allergens may be necessary. Patch testing is non-invasive and does not involve any needle sticks. Patches with small amounts of various allergens are taped to the back and left on for two days. When the patches are removed, the skin is examined for any evidence of reaction to any of the allergens.
Medications
Topical steroids are a first-line treatment for eczema flares and are usually effective. However, topical steroids are best used as a short-term or intermittent treatment to avoid the side effect of skin atrophy or thinning. Newer steroid-free products such as Eucrisa ointment can be very helpful. For severe eczema flares, a brief course of oral prednisone may be required. If an individual has infected eczema, an oral antibiotic may be necessary. Oral antihistamines can be useful to reduce itching and scratching.
Dupixent (dupilumab) is an exciting breakthrough treatment for the treatment of severe or recalcitrant eczema. It is given as an injection at home every other week. Dupixent targets a specific part of the immune system (IL-4 and IL-13), which decreases inflammation and improves the skin barrier. Dupixent can provide dramatic relief from eczema, without risking some of the harsh side effects of older medications.
Treating You and Your Family for Over 15 Years
Medical Services
More Info
Cosmetic Services
More Info
World-Class Dermatology in an Innovative Direct Pay Practice
Our Location
Download Forms
About Direct Pay
Site Information
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
News & Information
Press Kit
Press Releases
Customer Service
Contact Us
Site Map
Copyright 2019 Dermatology & Laser Institute
Website Design by CyNet Design