Yoga Moldova - Fitness App News
Skip to content
Yoga Moldova
Fitness App News
Menu
About Me
Contact
Search for:
Recent Posts
Posing Asthma Away with Yoga – Top Positions for Quick Relief
The Top Apps For your Android Phone to Welcome 2019
Never Feel Threatened by Asthma Anymore with These Yoga Poses for Better Breathing
Yoga for Beginners: Your Best Guide
What Happened When I Bought My Cats A Self Cleaning Litterbox
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
August 2018
June 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
June 2017
Categories
Electronics
Holidays
Music
Tool
Yoga
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
January 2, 2019
Posing Asthma Away with Yoga – Top Positions for Quick Relief
Yoga postures have been known to help improve the mind and body and there’s great evidence that it can also help with asthma. If you understand how Yoga works and what happens during an Asthma attack, then you’ll understand the whole process.
What i s Asthma?
It’s a chronic condition marked with acute exacerbations that can be quite uncomfortable for many people. Sometimes it can turn deadly if the obstruction stays for a longer period of time. Asthma is characterized by the following:
Spasm of the airways
Excessive production of mucus
Shortness of breath
Use of accessory muscles to breath
Anxiety
Wheezing
Coughing
Asthma attacks are triggered by a lot of things depending on the person. These are common triggers that you have to watch out for.
Dust
Pollen
Cold weather/air
Getting wet with cold water
Sudden temperature changes
Offensive smells
Chemical vapors
The list can go on. Treatment is symptomatic. Asthma can’t be cured, and doctors will help you manage the symptoms. One way to help alleviate and prevent future asthma attacks is through yoga
Disclaimer: This article does not suggest that you quit any form of asthma therapy and medication abruptly. Yoga is an adjunct solution that will work well with the current treatment of the condition.
How to Use Yoga to Help with your Asthma
Yoga is a powerful practice of using posture and channeling inner energy in ways that will improve the body. It’s not just to strengthen the mind and body, it can also be used to help manage certain conditions such as Asthma. These are the many ways the practice can be used to manage any future attacks with proper yoga.
Yoga Reduces Stress
Stress is one of the triggers of Asthma. Any type of emotional stress, mental stress and more can trigger a spasm so easily. By practicing Yoga, you can clear your mind and make sure that are stronger than stress. By lowering and managing stress levels, you can cut attacks by almost half and even lower the length of time they occur.
Yoga Improves Breathing
One of the great benefits of Yoga is the slow but powerful breathing pattern. It can help with the following:
Strengthen your diaphragm that will allow you to take in and expel more air
Help stretch and enlarge your airways, so any attack will last shorter or won’t affect you as much
Improve tissue perfusion so your body won’t starve immediately when oxygen is reduced due to an attack
A normal and practiced breathing pattern can help during an attack so you won’t drive yourself into a cycle of increasing stress
Know Your Yoga Instructor
While we encourage you to incorporate Yoga into managing Asthma, it’s also important for you to learn more about yoga instructors and their qualifications. There are fake instructors the same way there are fake medicines. The wrong position and technique can do more harm than good. Thankfully, there are international, national and local communities that help certify Yoga. Learn and practice with only someone who is certified.
Use technology to stay healthy. Read more articles like this in Yoga Moldova, your best source of fitness in the internet jungle.
by Lindsay Wright
Yoga
attacks with proper yoga
benefits of Yoga
December 13, 2018
The Top Apps For your Android Phone to Welcome 2019
Google play is full of applications that can improve your smartphone. To welcome the new year, we’ve compiled the best apps for you. These are from different categories with their own uses that will help you socialize, organize or entertain you for the year to come.
Top 5 Apps for the New Year
Best Browser – Firefox
Mozilla has upgraded the mobile version of their browser which makes it blazingly fast. Their Quantum Update boasts of improving web page reload times and works with webpage saving service Pocket. What sets the browser app from the rest is Mozilla’s promise to not collect any user data to sell to third parties. Now, this might stint some advertisements or even search bar suggestions but if you value your privacy, then you’ll love Firefox.
Secure Communication – Wickr Me
An amazing app that values encryption and privacy. It is a messenger that has several protections in place for secure communication. You can set a lifespan in each message to ensure that they disappear forever. If you attempt to take a screenshot, a default security protocol prevents you from doing that. Even if you disable the security feature, a copy of the screenshot will be sent to the person or group chat so they know who took one. The company’s founder knows customers would like privacy that the FBI were rejected when they asked for a backdoor exploit.
Health Monitor – MyFitness Pal
Still the best app for fitness. Be a better and fit you in 2019 with MyFitness Pal. This app has a calorie counter with an amazing database. You also have a barcode scanner that finds information about the product you just bought and flashes on your screen the nutritional values. There’s a meal planner, tons of recipes and the app even tracks your fitness by using existing phone hardware such as a step counter.
Phone Spying App – PhoneSpector
Want to monitor your child? Is your husband cheating on you? Answer these questions and many more with the top of the line spy app PhoneSpector. This app is easy to install on most Android phones and comes with customer support, lifetime upgrades and more for a one-time fee for each target phone. It’s virtually undetectable once installed and will let you access the target smartphone as if it’s right there in your hands. Other features include GPS location, photo gallery, and video gallery access, social media access and more.
Photo App – Flickr
One of the veteran photo-sharing websites, Flickr now has a gorgeous app. Edit your photos, store them with a 1 terabyte cloud storage and easily share it with other social media apps. It also has a social media function by allowing you to connect to other photographers. Share tips, learn new tricks and see beautiful images from the vibrant Flickr community. Additional functionality allows you to automatically back up photos as you take pictures to ensure that your memories are preserved forever.
Just around the corner is a crossroad of the old and new. Breathe life into your phone with these exciting new apps and more. These are several websites to choose from hundreds more apps that offer functionality, beauty, information and more.
by Lindsay Wright
Electronics
apps
Google play
smartphone
November 27, 2018
Never Feel Threatened by Asthma Anymore with These Yoga Poses for Better Breathing
With the focus on breathing that yoga has, everyone who has had experience with it will surely say its benefits include reducing the symptoms of asthma. And indeed many kinds of research have been done to establish the connection between these two. There is the number of evidence that show some yoga poses for better breathing are quite effective.
Let us find out what these are and practice it in our lives so we will never feel worried and manage ourselves when asthma strikes again.
Yoga Poses and Its Effect on Asthma
Can yoga help with asthma? While there is no concrete answer to this question, many who practice yoga and exercise their inhalation and exhalation techniques, do find relief for their airway problems. But more specifically, this question can be answered by the results of recent studies done to find out what benefits yoga has to asthma patients.
There is moderate evidence that yoga improves the overall quality of life in people with asthma.
Unfortunately, there is not enough evidence that to prove that yoga can improve lung function and reduce the need for medication.
However, there are certain yoga poses, such as the “pranayama”, that helps release suppressed emotion, reduce anxiety and self-consciousness, and relax muscle tension. All these can help asthma patients breathe better.
Meditation is also known to help people with asthma improve their airways and respiratory muscles.
All these results somehow show how yoga affects people with asthma. While there is no significant evidence showing how yoga reduces the incidence of the condition. The need for medications, management of it can be achieved with certain yoga poses.
And how do you do yoga for asthma? Specifically, the pranayama pose?
Pranayama is the formal practice of controlling the breath. Some of the poses in this practice include the natural breath, the sahita pranayama, and the bhramari.
With the natural breath, you simply breathe in and notice thoughts as they arise. Then, you breathe out and notice thoughts as they dissipate.
The sahita pranayama lets you practice holding your breath until you settle into stillness. But not to the point of discomfort.
The bhramari, on the other hand, creates homeostasis of the mind and body by inhaling. Through the nostrils and exhaling while producing the buzzing sound of the bee.
These are just a few practices in yoga that can help you achieve better breathing.
If you want to learn more about it and achieve peace, visit Yoga Maldova, your fitness, and yoga blog.
by Lindsay Wright
Yoga
Can yoga help with asthma
yoga for asthma
yoga poses for better breathing
Posts navigation
Older posts
Built with Make. Your friendly WordPress page builder theme.
RSS
Skip to toolbar
About WordPress
WordPress.org
Documentation
Support Forums
Feedback
Log In
Search