Fever in children
(92) (42) 111-223-454 aadilhospital@aadilhospital.com
Careers Contact Appointment
About Us
Overview
Vision
Mission
Quality Policy
Registrations & Affiliations
Frequently Asked Questions
Our Doctors
Departments & Services
Treatments
Health Insurance
Insurance Companies
Corporate Companies
Media
News and Announcement
Events
Pictures
Testimonials
Contact Us
Contact Form
Appointment
Directions
Fever in children
Disease / Condition
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
A child has a fever when his or her rectal temperature is 38°C (100.4°F) or higher or the armpit (axillary) temperature is 37.4°C (99.3°F) or higher.
Include:
• Complaining of a stiff neck or light hurting their eyes;
• Vomiting and refusing to drink much;
• A rash
• More sleepy than usual;
• Problems with breathing;
• Or if your child is in pain.
Also see your doctor if your child is under three months of age and has a fever.
The doctor will evaluate a child by obtaining
A history from you and, if possible, the child.
A physical examination
Tests:
A chest radiograph (X-ray) can be useful for diagnosing some conditions in the chest, lungs, or heart (including some, but not all, pneumonias).
A complete blood count, electrolytes, and cultures are taken from a blood sample:
A complete blood count (CBC) is useful for diagnosing bacterial blood infections in very young children.
Electrolytes levels in the blood are useful for evaluating dehydration
Urinalysis is useful to look for infections of the urinary tract and may be helpful for evaluating dehydration
You may want to take your child's temperature if they are:
• Unwell and feel hot;
• Irritable, crying;
• More sleepy than usual;
• Vomiting or refusing to drink;
• In pain.
There are three ways to take a child's temperature
1. Under the arm - for all children.
2. Under the tongue - only for older children.
3. Ear (tympanic) - for children of all ages. A tympanic thermometer can be difficult to use and may not be accurate.
At home care
Treat your child at home by making them more comfortable.
• Dress your child in enough clothing so that they are not shivering.
• Tepid sponging (sponging with slightly warm water) and fanning children with fevers is not recommended.
• Give your child frequent small drinks of clear fluid (e.g. water, diluted fruit juice, cordial). If your child is less than six months old give extra breastfeeds, cooled boiled water or bottles.
• Do not worry if your child refuses to eat at this time.
• Watch your child for signs that their illness is getting worse.
About paracetamol
• If your child seems well and is happy, there is no need to treat a fever with paracetamol.
• If the fever is above 38.5ºC and your child is miserable or has other symptoms such as a sore throat, they may be given paracetamol. Follow the correct dose on the instructions on the packaging.
• Make sure when giving paracetamol for fever that your child has not had any other medicine containing paracetamol in the last four hours.
• Paracetamol can be given every four hours as directed on the bottle. No more than four doses should be given in each 24 hour period. Do not give for more than two days without seeing your doctor.
Consult at Aadil Hospital for proper medical dose and treatment.
Related Doctors
Help Desk for Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
Dr. Salamat Ullah
MBBS, FCPS
Dr. Sana Ullah
MBBS, FCPS, DCH
Dr. Imran Yaseen
FCPS
Dr. Muhammad Azhar Farooq
MBBS, DCH, FCPS (Paeds), MRCPCH (UK)
Dr. Samina Habib
MBBS, DCH, FCPS (Paeds)
Dr. Tahir Saleem
Dr. M. Naeem Akhtar Toor
MBBS, FCP, FCPS
Dr. Mohammad Mahmood Iqbal
MBBS, MCPS, FCPS
Dr. Tahir Saleem
MBBS, FCPS
Dr. Naeem Liaqat
MBBS, FCPS
Help Desk for Pediatrics and Neonatal Care
Related Departments
Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
Pediatrics and Neonatal Care
Make an Appointment
CONTACT
Aadil Hospital, Main Boulevard D.H.A, Lahore Cantonment, Lahore, 54000, Pakistan
(92) (42) 111-223-454
(92) (42) 3662 1359
(92) (42) 3666 1216
aadilhospital@aadilhospital.com
Copyright © Aadil Hospital. All Rights Reserved. BACK TO TOP