Croup | New Hartford, NY | Utica Pediatrics
Quickly Find
Make a selection... AppointmentsContactEmergenciesHospital AffiliationInsuranceWhat's Going Around
Appointments: 315-732-7909
About Us
Providers
Staff
Services
Appointments
After Hours
Hospital Affiliation
Insurance
Emergencies
Well Child Visits
Sick Visits
Get Our Mobile App
Well Visits
Beyond Screen Time: A Parent’s Guide to Media Use
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 1 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 12 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 15 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 15 to 17 Year Visits
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 18 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 2 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 2 to 5 Day (First Week) Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 2 Year Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 2½ Year Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 3 Year Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 4 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 4 Year Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 5 and 6 Year Visits
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 6 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 7 and 8 Year Visits
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 9 and 10 Year Visits
Bright Futures Parent Handout: 9 Month Visit
Bright Futures Parent Handout: Early Adolescent Visits (11-14 years)
Bright Futures Patient Handout: 15 to 17 Year Visits
Bright Futures Patient Handout: 18 to 21 Year Visits
Bright Futures Patient Handout: 7 and 8 Year Visits
Bright Futures Patient Handout: 9 and 10 Year Visits
Bright Futures Patient Handout: Early Adolescent Visits (11-14 years)
Connecting With your Community
Friends Are Important:Tips for Parents
How Do Infants Learn?
Parenting Your Infant
Young Children Learn A Lot When They Play
Your Child's Growth: Developmental Milestones
Forms
NICQH Vanderbilt Behavioral Assessment
For Parents
Visual Symptom Checker
Medical Library
Medicine Dosages
Medical Conditions
Useful Links
Contact
Utica Pediatrics
Home
In This Section
Visual Symptom Checker
Medical Library
Medicine Dosages
Medical Conditions
Useful Links
Newborns
Croup
Print, Share, or View Spanish version of this article
Croup is an infection that makes the inside of your child's throat swell up. This makes it hard for your child to breathe. It can be scary for both parents and children.
Croup is common in young children. Most cases of croup are mild. But croup can get worse and stop your child from breathing at all. Call the doctor if you think your child has croup and he or she is having a hard time breathing.
Croup is usually caused by a virus that infects the voice box and windpipe. The main sign of croup is a barking cough. It may start with a cold. Most children with viral croup have a low fever. But some have temperatures up to 104°F or 40°C.
Signs of Croup
Here are some signs your child may have croup:
Barking cough
Noisy or troubled breathing
Hoarse voice
Gasping for breath
What to Do for Croup
Call 911 or an Ambulance Right Away If… …your child:
Can't speak for lack of breath.
Seems to be struggling to get a breath.
Makes a whistling sound when breathing in. (This is called stridor*.)
Drools much more than usual or has a very hard time swallowing saliva*.
Has a bluish mouth or fingernails.
The above are all signs of severe croup. They may also be signs of other serious problems. Either way, if your child is having trouble breathing, you need to get him or her to the hospital.
Call the Doctor If…
…either of these is true:
Your child is a baby 1 year or younger.
The cough keeps getting worse.
Try Home Treatment
Croup may wake your child up in the middle of the night. If your child is not having trouble breathing, try these home treatments.
Steam up the bathroom by running hot water in the shower. Take your child in the bathroom to breathe the moist air for 15 or 20 minutes. Steam works for many children.
If steam does not work, bundle your child up and go outdoors for a few minutes. The cool night air may help your child breathe more freely.
Use a cool-mist humidifier (hyoo-MID-uh-fye-ur) in your child's room for the rest of the night. Turn it on for the next 2 to 3 nights too.
Medicines for Croup
The doctor may prescribe steroids*. Steroids help bring down the swelling in the throat.
Antibiotics don't help because croup is almost always caused by a virus.
Cough syrups don't help either. They can even make things worse. They may keep your child from coughing up mucus (MYOO-kus) that needs to come out if there is infection.
Who Gets Croup?
Most children get croup once or twice. Some children get croup every time they get a cold or the flu. Croup can come at any time. It's most common in the winter months.
Children are most likely to get croup between 6 months and 3 years of age. After age 3, it is not as common. That's because the windpipe is larger. So swelling is less likely to get in the way of breathing.
If your child seems to get croup a lot, he or she may have another problem. Talk with your child's doctor.
Can You Prevent Croup?
You can’t really prevent croup. But you can prevent a more serious illness called acute epiglottitis (uh- KYOOT epp-uh-glah-TYE-tis). Its symptoms are a lot like croup, but worse. This illness usually strikes children 1 to 5 years old.
The good news is that the Hib vaccine can protect against this illness. Your child should get the first dose of Hib at 2 months old.
Copyright © 2008
Is Your Child Sick?TM
WHAT'S GOING AROUND?
Illnesses and Symptoms... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Medicine Dosages...
Medical Conditions...
Medical Library
VISUAL SYMPTOM CHECKER
Newborns
Teens
Breast Feeding
Behavior
Special Needs
Parenting Tips
Immunizations
Emergencies
Growth & Development
Nutrition
Safety
Sports & Exercise
Useful Links
News @ Utica Pediatrics
Welcome!
Welcome to our website! Uticapediatrics.com is a comprehensive pediatric website. The information contained in this site in no way should take the place of discussing concerns or questions with your provider. Feel free to call us at anytime with inquiries! Be sure to check back for updates.
New Patients!
Utica Pediatrics is accepting new patients! If interested, please call Cheryl at (315)732-7909 to discuss.
Influenza Vaccine 2018-2019
Flu vaccine is now available for most insurance plans. Please call the office to schedule a nurse visit for flu vaccine, or discuss with your provider at your upcoming visit!
86 Genesee Street, Suite 1, New Hartford, NY 13413
X
X