Imitrex vs Relpax, Differences & Reviews - PillComparer
pillcomparer
Imitrex vs Relpax
﻿
Imitrex
What is Imitrex
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is a prescription medication used to treat migraine headaches once they have started. Sumatriptan belongs to a group of drugs called serotonin receptor agonists or "triptans", which relieve pain by narrowing blood vessels around the brain.
Imitrex price
$ 24.95 (Package 25mg x 5 pills)
prices from H&B Pharmacy
How does imitrex work
Imitrex acts on serotonin (or 5HT) receptors that are found on blood vessels in the brain, causing them to narrow. It's also thought to inhibit the action of the trigeminal nerve. These actions relieve the headache and other symptoms that you may get with your migraine, such as feeling sick or sensitivity to light or sound.
How long does imitrex stay in your system
The half life is 1,5-2,6 hours. It takes about 7,5-15,6 hours for Imitrex to clear out of the system.
Imitrex dosage
The recommended dose of Imitrex in tablet form is: 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg.
Your doctor will prescribe the right dose for you.
After the first recommended dose, you may be advised to take a second dose two hours or more later, if your migraine has not resolved. The maximum daily dose of Imitrex tablets is 200 mg in a 24-hour time period.
An additional dose of the injection can also be given if the first dose does not work and 2 hours or more have passed.
Side effects
tiredness, weakness, drowsiness, dizziness;
changes in the sensation or color of fingers or toes;
bloody diarrhea, nausea, constipation, vomiting, severe stomach pain;
cramping, pain, tingling in legs, hips, leg muscles, feet, toes;
hives, swelling of tongue, throat, oral area;
mental changes, hallucinations, high temperature;
balance problems;
chest pain;
stiffness in neck, jaw.
Relpax
What is Relpax
Relpax (Eletriptan) is a prescription medication used to treat migraine headaches once they have started. Eletriptan belongs to a group of drugs called selective serotonin receptor agonists or "triptans", which reduce swelling of blood vessels surrounding the brain.
Relpax price
$ 89.95 (Package 20mg x 10 tablet)
prices from H&B Pharmacy
How does relpax work
Relpax works by stimulating receptors called serotonin (or 5HT) receptors that are found in the brain. A natural substance called serotonin normally acts on these receptors, causing blood vessels in the brain to narrow. Relpax mimics this action of serotonin by directly stimulating the serotonin receptors in the brain. This narrows the blood vessels and so relieves the pain of migraine headaches.
How long does relpax stay in your system
The half-life is about 4 hours. That means half the dose is out of your body in 4 hours. Half of the remaining half is out in the next 4 hours, etc. It takes 6-7 half-lives (24-28 hours) for all of it to be out of the body.
Relpax dosage
Relpax comes as a tablet to take by mouth. Take one tablet at the first sign of a migraine headache.
If your symptoms improve after you take the drug but return after two hours or longer, you can take a second tablet.
If your symptoms don't improve after the first tablet, call your doctor. Don't take a second tablet before talking with your healthcare provider.
Don't take more than 80 mg of Relpax in 24 hours.
Side effects
tingling sensations;
feeling warm;
chest tightness/pain/pressure;
abdominal pain/discomfort/stomach pain/cramps/pressure;
dry mouth;
indigestion;
tight throat/difficulty swallowing;
nausea;
dizziness, headache;
body weakness, sleepiness.
Questions & Answers
Where to buy imitrex or relpax over the counter in the U.S.?
You can not buy imitrex and relpax without prescription in the US, Canada, UK and most other countries in the world. You need to get a prescription for migraine medications from your doctor before being able to access the meds. If you have a prescription, Walgreens, CVS, Walmart or any other online pharmacy will sell drugs for you.
Reviews
lisahauer98
Imitrex changed my life. I only take 50 mg the best part about is that after the migraine wears off the medication give me a lift of energy. Wish I had this sooner I suffered for year.
TJAlex
I have been on Imitrix and Maxalt, but have actually found that taking a combo of 6 mg ibuprofin and 3 mg Excedrin work better than either and it is safe to take that 3 times a week. I think that a preventative is also important.
Kristina M.
Great! Relpax is a dream come true to me and a nightmare for my migraines! I works within one hour, even when I have a full blown migraine! And my migraine stays GONE!
Champ62
I suffered for years with migraines, I have lost intire weekends and days from these headaches. Relpax is a life saver, I had times I thought I wanted to die during these headaches. No more, don't have to suffer anymore get the script. It works. Does make you pee alot.
Add review
Send
Other comparisons
Imitrex vs Topamax
Maxalt vs Topamax
Maxalt vs Relpax
Topamax vs Relpax
Effexor vs Zoloft
Sitemap
Copyright © 2019 by PillComparer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.