MigreLief in the News | MIGRELIEF
Call Us! 800-758-8746
Buy Now
Products
MigreLief
MigreLief+M
Children’s MigreLief
MigreLief-NOW
About Us
FAQs
Original & Menstrual
Children’s
News & Media
Blog
Testimonials
Ask a Health Advisor
For Professionals
My Cart
X
Buy Now
Products
MigreLief
MigreLief+M
Children’s MigreLief
MigreLief-NOW
About Us
FAQs
Original & Menstrual
Children’s
News & Media
Blog
Testimonials
Ask a Health Advisor
For Professionals
My Cart
Newsletter Signup
Lifetime Television “The Balancing Act”
interviews Curt Hendrix, creator of MigreLief
Migraine Mega Guide: Migraine Questions, Research Studies and Migraine Stories
Categories
Adolescent Migraine
Antidepressants
Build Muscle
Causes of Migraines
Children and Migraines
Children Headache
Children's Health
Children's MigreLief
COUPONS
Curt Hendrix
Drug Interactions
Fast Acting Migraine Relief
Feverfew
General Health
Healthcare
Healthy Foods
Heart Health
Hormonal Weight Gain
Insomnia
Landing
Medication side effects
Medications
Menstrual Migraine
Migraine Advisor
Migraine Drug Side Effects
Migraine Drugs
Migraine Prevention
Migraine Relief
Migraine Remedy
Migraine Science
Migraine triggers
Migraine Types
Migraines & Migraine Headaches
MigreLief
MigreLief in the News
MigreLief Product Info
MigreLief Reviews
MigreLief+M
MigreLief-NOW
Muscle Loss
Natural Migraine Treatment
PCOS
Pediatric Migraine
PMS & PMS Symptoms
Probiotics
Puracol Feverfew
Quantum MigreLief
Sleep
Sleep Disorders
Stress
Supplements
Teen Migraine Headache
Uncategorized
Vitamins
Weight Loss
Recent Posts
Improve Your Memory Today While Maintaining Healthy Brain Volume as You Age
HOW TO LIVE FOR 100 YEARS OR MORE! Copy
What is a Migraine? Symptoms, Types and Migraine Statistics
Migraine World Summit 2019 – FREE Ticket (Virtual/Online Event)
How do I know if my child’s headaches are migraines? Copy
MigreLief in the News Category
Delilah Radio – MigreLief… Not Just Another Pill for Migraine Pain!
February 10th, 2013
MigreLief’s national campaign to reach the 37 million men, women and children throughout the U.S. who suffer chronic migraines has hit the airwaves with radio spots playing to highly attuned audiences of popular shows such as Delilah, Race Taylor, Helen Little Dan Justin, and Rich Kiminski. The goal is to reach as many migraine sufferers as possible with their drug-free nutritional alternative.
More and more migraine sufferers as well as healthcare professionals understand the importance of maintaining normal cerebrovascular tone and function when it comes to fighting migraines. As researchers continue to discover the more migraines you have the more suseptible you become to future migraines, migraine sufferers are turning to prevention.
Magnesium, riboflavin and feverfew are all listed in The American Academy of Neurology’s Guidelines for Migraine Prevention. “MigreLief Triple Therapy with Puracol.™” MigreLief provides nutritional support for migraine sufferers and addresses the underlying nutritional deficiencies and imbalances that many migraineurs have in common.
Drug Free – Alternative for Adults and Children with Migraines
*Effective nutritional option for chronic migraine control
*Safe for men, women and children over 2 years of age
*No harmful side-effects
*May combine with Akeso’s fast-acting “as-needed” migraine formula, MigreLief-NOW
*Formulated to maintain the already normal cerebrovascular function one has on migraine free days
*Recommended by neurologists, pharmacists and other healthcare professionals worldwide
*Taken daily like a vitamin
Migraine Treatment Forecast: According to a recent report by Decision Resources a marketing research group that offers information and insights on sectors of the healthcare industry, the Market for migraine therapies is estimated to double in the next eight years going from 3.3 billion to 5.8 billion by 2021. They reported that no new prophylactic options are projected to be available through 2021.
Nutritional OTCs BECOMING THE NORM
The market research firm Kline expects that OTC “natural product” sales will eclipse $750 million by 2016. 45% of consumers consider natural OTCs effective, and more than 40% believe that natural OTCs may be safer or have fewer side effects than traditional OTCs.
LOCATED IN PHARMACIES NATIONWIDE
Both Original Formula and MigreLief+M, a nutritional supplement for women who suffer hormonal or menstrual migraines, are available in stores and pharmacies nationwide. It can be found on the shelf near the temporary headache pain relievers, thus giving migraine sufferers who are perusing retail shelves for relief, a great preventive drug-free option.
UPDATE: MigreLief can now be found in select stores and pharmacies across the USA. Use our MigreLief Store Locator to find out where to buy MigreLief.
Plus, discover fast-acting MigreLief-NOW!
“MigreLief has been highly effective in my practice of patients with difficult migraine headaches.” – Dennis D., M.D., Advanced Neurology Specialists, Great Falls, MT.
For up to date feedback… join MigreLief on Facebook
Feb. 2013: My now 14 year old has been using Migrelief for 2 years. She used to have migraines at least 6x per month. Best thing that ever happened for our family is finding Migrelief! ~ Brenda G.
Jan 2013: “I’m a nurse practitioner and I recommend MigreLief every day.” ~ NP, National Children’s Medical Center, DC
If you, a friend or loved one suffers migraines, recommend MigreLief Daily Maintenance and “As-Needed” Migraine Supplements.
Lifetime Television “The Balancing Act” Interviews Curt Hendrix, Creator of MigreLief, Regarding Migraine Headache Relief
June 25th, 2011
Curt Hendrix, creator of MigreLief, is interviewed on Lifetime’s Balancing Act.
Mr. Hendrix discusses causes and treatment of migraines, especially as related to women who suffer from migraine headaches.
More than 30 million people in the US suffer from migraines, and more than three-quarters are women. The key is not to treat the symptoms, but prevent the severe headaches from ever forming. We’ll show you how to do it naturally. Watch The Balancing Act interview below.
Tagged:menstrual migraines, Migraine Causes, Migraine Prevention, Migraine Relief, Migraines, Migraines & Migraine Headaches, MigreLief, MigreLief News
MigreLief Segment on Lifetime Television June 20th and July 25th
June 14th, 2011
Catch MigreLief’s segment on Lifetime TV!
We just finished shooting a segment about MigreLief on The Balancing Act for Lifetime!
Set your DVR’s now to catch us on June 20th & July 25th 7:00am et/pt!
The Balancing Act, America’s only one-hour morning
show that’s about women, for women and trusted by women.
7-8:00 a.m. daily et/pt
A Breakthrough for Menstrual Migraines, PMS & PCOS!
January 3rd, 2011
A Breakthrough for Menstrual Migraines, PMS and PCOS!
MigreLief+M
LOS ANGELES, /PRNewswire/ — In a world where millions suffer daily from the debilitating pain of migraine headaches, one name stands out as the definitive leader in natural, safe and effective treatment. MigreLief by Akeso Health Sciences.
Now, patients are raving about the amazing results of the new breakthrough product from Akeso. MigreLief+M (Menstrual) is the first of its kind supplement aimed at preventing migraines and other symptoms associated with a woman’s menstrual cycle.
“There is a direct relationship between hormones and headaches,” explains Curt Hendrix M.S. C.C.N., C.N.S., scientist and creator of MigreLief+M. “Headaches in women, particularly migraines, have been related to changes in the levels of the female hormones estrogen and progesterone before, during and after a woman’s menstrual cycle. These hormone levels fluctuate dramatically and are associated with a large percentage of migraines in women.”
The release of MigreLief+M is life-changing news, not only for migraine sufferers but also for women who experience PMS symptoms such as cravings, breast tenderness, bloating, cramps, depression and irritability. The active ingredients in this menstrually targeted MigreLief have been shown to not only balance the hormonal fluctuations that lead to menstrual related migraines, but also significantly decrease PMS symptoms as well.
What is the secret to the success of world renowned MigreLief? “The ingredients that are used are continuously monitored for quality and integrity by independent analytical laboratories throughout the manufacturing process. These ingredients are then used in the exact form and dose proven effective in human clinical studies. Our supplements are of higher quality than those currently on the market because of this exacting scientific attention to purity and potency.”
MigreLief+M is no exception and promises to be another winner with a multitude of added benefits:
•Same reliable migraine treatment as MigreLief original formula with additional compounds to treat Menstrual migraines and alleviate many PMS and PCOS symptoms.
•May be beneficial in reducing the occurrence of premenstrual acne.
•Can be taken with your prescription migraine drugs and has no side-effects.
•Regulates blood sugar balance that is a migraine trigger in many patients.
•MigreLief Facebook and Twitter interface directly with consumers to support their ongoing health questions and needs.
All MigreLief products are available in select pharmacies and online at www.migrelief.com. For more information and product samples contact sales@akesohealth.com.
About Akeso Health Sciences
Founded by Curt Hendrix in 1992, Akeso is a family company dedicated to continuing research and breakthrough technologies for the development of patented supplements that have helped tens of thousands find the joy and peace of a new life without migraines. The company consistently delivers innovative, leading edge solutions for migraineurs worldwide.
Contact: Steve Hendrix
sales@akesohealth.com
(800) 758-8746
DISCLAIMER: MigreLief™ is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease or illness. Frequent use of this product may result in considerable weight loss. Please consult with your licensed medical practitioner if you have, or suspect you may have, a health problem.
SOURCE Akeso Health Sciences and PRNewswire.com
Find out more about MigreLief+M
Tagged:menstrual migraine, Migraine Relief, Migrelief+M, PCOS, PMS & PMS Symptoms
At Last! Safe Relief For Children’s Migraines – The First Natural Migraine Supplement Just for Kids
December 29th, 2010
At Last! Safe Relief for Children’s Migraines!
The First Natural Migraine Supplement Just for Kids – Children’s MigreLief
LOS ANGELES, Dec. 23, 2010 /PRNewswire/ — MigreLief, the first name in migraine prevention, releases a safe and proven effective supplement for children of all ages:
One of the hardest things for a parent to do is to see their child in pain. Yet every day millions of parents must watch helplessly as their children suffer from debilitating attacks. About one out of every ten kids, or nearly 8 million children in the United States alone, are plagued by what has become the most common acute and recurrent headache pattern experienced by children today.
“Be it supplement, OTC drug or prescription drug, Children’s MigreLief is the first and only therapy developed specifically for children suffering from migraine headaches,” explains Curt Hendrix M.S. C.C.N, C.N.S., scientist and creator of Children’s MigreLief. These often incapacitating experiences strike suddenly and often with accompanying symptoms of nausea, abdominal pain and vomiting. Until now, the only option available was the use of side-effect prone prescription medications actually causing more migraines, known as rebound headaches. But Children’s MigreLief offers parents of children suffering migraines a safe nutritional option, with none of the potentially disruptive side-effects of prescription drugs.
Hendrix explains, “There is NOT one prescription drug approved by the FDA for use by children with migraines. The side-effects of these drugs are significant in adults and not an option most parents would want to subject a child to. Children’s MigreLief is the perfect solution… a vitamin, a mineral and a plant, all well known for their safety, efficacy and low side-effects to establish normal vascular function instead of a lifetime on pain killers and abortive drugs.”
MigreLief contains a patented “Triple Therapy” approach to reestablishing normal cerebrovascular tone and function that is disrupted in children who have migraines. Nutritional deficiencies, inflammation, and vasospasm can independently and together contribute to migraine occurrence, frequency and intensity. Children’s MigreLief contains the same “Triple Therapy” ingredients as MigreLief but with dosages and pill sizes adjusted to meet the needs of children.
MigreLief’s ingredients; Puracol, a proprietary blend of two unique Feverfew sources, Magnesium from two sources and high dose, highly absorbable Riboflavin (Vitamin B-2) have all independently been shown to be of significant preventive benefit to chronic migraine sufferers.
All MigreLief products are available in select pharmacies and online at MigreLief.com. For more information and product samples contact sales@akesohealth.com.
About Akeso Health Sciences
Founded by Curt Hendrix in 1992, the company now Akeso L.L.C. is a family company dedicated to continuing research and breakthrough technologies for the development of patented supplements. Akeso has helped tens of thousands control their migraines to find new joy and peace in life and consistently delivers innovative, leading edge solutions for migraineurs worldwide.
Contact: Steve Hendrix sales@akesohealth.com USA (800) 758-8746
DISCLAIMER: (MigreLief™) is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult your licensed medical practitioner if you have, or suspect you may have, a health problem.
SOURCE Akeso Health Sciences and PRNewswire.com
RELATED PRODUCTS
CHILDREN’S MIGRELIEF
For children under the age of 12 who suffer from migraine headaches.
» Buy Now
Tagged:Children and Migraines, children's migraines, Migraine Prevention, Migraine Relief, Migraines, Migraines & Migraine Headaches, migraines in children, MigreLief
Read About MigreLief in New York Times Bestseller: Joy Bauer’s Food Cures
August 23rd, 2010
NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLER
JOY BAUER’S – FOOD CURES
JOY BAUER MS, RD, CDN (Nutrition Expert for The Today Show)
Page 336
SUPPLEMENTS
If you suffer from migraine headaches and want to consider supplements, research suggests that these might be helpful.
1. MigreLief. This supplement is a patented formulation designed specifically for people with migraines. Just two capsules a day–one in the morning and one at night–contain 300 milligrams of magnesium, 400 milligrams of riboflavin, and 100 milligrams of a specific form of the herb feverfew, which has been used for centuries to treat headaches. More recent research has found that taking feverfew, particularly in the standardized form found in MigreLief, can reduce the frequency and severity of migraines. People who take it notice improvements after one to three months. This product may cause diarrhea in some people. MigreLief should not be taken by anyone taking potassium-sparing diuretics, or with renal failure, or by women who are pregnant or nursing. To find stores near you that sell MigreLief, check the store locator at www.migrelief.com, or call 1-877-MIGRELIEF. One additional note of warning, just to prevent an unexpected shock: At these dosages, riboflavin will turn urine a bright fluorescent yellow. It isn’t dangerous, just colorful.
Page 334
RIBOFLAVIN
Riboflavin–also called vitamin B2–is involved with the body’s production of energy at the level of the cell. Some research suggests that people with migraines may have a genetic defect that makes it difficult for their cells to maintain energy reserves, and this lack of basic energy could trigger migraines. Many neurologists recommend that their migraine patients take riboflavin supplements along with their prescription medications. Although it is difficult to get enough riboflavin to prevent migraines from food sources alone, I recommend adding some additional riboflavin-rich foods to your diet. If you would like to try riboflavin supplements, I recommend a 400 milligram dose or a combination product called MigreLief. See the Supplements section, next page for more information.
MAGNESIUM
Magnesium deficiency has been linked to migraines. Getting enough magnesium through diet or supplements may help prevent all kinds of migraines, but seems to be particularly valuable for women who get menstrual migraines. Eating a diet high in magnesium is safe, and will contribute to headache prevention. However, studies of the effects of magnesium on migraine have used supplements, not food sources. If you would like to try magnesium supplements, I recommend a combination product called MigreLief. See the Supplements section, next page for more information.
ABOUT JOY BAUER:
Nutrition Expert Joy Bauer, MS, RD, CDN, often appears on NBC’s Today Show, CBNTV: The Joy 700 Club as well as Inside Edition and LXTV/NBC and is recognized nationally as a leading authority on health and nutrition. Joy is responsible for building one of the largest nutrition-counseling practices in the country. Located in both New York City and Westchester, Joy Bauer Nutrition provides medically sound dietary evaluations and interventions for adults and children for a wide range of diet and health issues.
Nutrition Expert Joy Bauer (FOOD CURES) Recommends MigreLief for Persistent Migraines.
April 24th, 2010
Nutrition Expert Joy Bauer, MS, RD, CDN, often appears on NBC’s Today Show, CBNTV: The Joy 700 Club as well as Inside Edition and LXTV/NBC and is recognized nationally as a leading authority on health and nutrition. Joy is responsible for building one of the largest nutrition-counseling practices in the country. Located in both New York City and Westchester, Joy Bauer Nutrition provides medically sound dietary evaluations and interventions for adults and children for a wide range of diet and health issues.
Excerpt from “FOOD CURES” —
Migraines and Supplements
www.joybauer.com
Wondering about which supplements might help prevent or relieve migraines? Today show nutritionist Joy Bauer has information on three supplements shown to work for migraines. Visit Joy Bauer’s FoodCures.com today – http://www.joybauer.com/migraines/migraines-and-supplements.aspx
MigreLief. This supplement is a patented formulation designed specifically for people with migraines. Just two capsules a day — one in the morning and one at night — contain 360 mg of magnesium, 400 mg of riboflavin, and 100 mg of a specific form of the herb feverfew, which has been used for centuries to treat headaches. You should note that this supplement may cause diarrhea in some people. MigreLief should not be taken by anyone taking potassium-sparing diuretics, by anyone with renal failure, or by women who are pregnant or nursing. Just to prevent an unexpected shock: At these dosages, riboflavin will turn urine a bright fluorescent yellow. (But it isn’t dangerous, just colorful!)
Tagged:Akeso, Causes of Migraines, Curt Hendrix, Joy Bauer, Migra, MigraHealth, Migraine Prevention, Migraine Relief, Migraines & Migraine Headaches, Migralief, Migrane, MigreLief News, Quantum
Home|
Store Locator|
About Us|
FAQs|
News&Media|
Testimonials|
Contact Us|
Other Resources|
For Professionals|
Glossary|
Site Map|
Refund Policy|
Privacy Policy|
Wholesale Program|
Wholesale Login|
Blog
by Akeso Health Sciences, LLC
4607 Lakeview Canyon #561, Westlake Village, CA 91361 USA
Phone: 1-800-758-8746
Email: service@migrelief.com
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Individual results may vary and testimonials listed on this website are not intended to be a guarantee.
© 2019 Akeso Health Sciences, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Web Design by: FDG Web, Inc.