Why Do Ice & Salt Together Burn the Skin? | Sciencing
sciencing
Science
Biology
Cells
Molecular
Microorganisms
Genetics
Human Body
Ecology
Chemistry
Atomic & Molecular Structure
Bonds
Reactions
Stoichiometry
Solutions
Acids & Bases
Thermodynamics
Organic Chemistry
Physics
Fundamentals
Mechanics
Electronics
Waves
Energy
Fluid
Astronomy
Geology
Fundamentals
Minerals & Rocks
Earth Structure
Fossils
Natural Disasters
Nature
Ecosystems
Environment
Insects
Plants & Mushrooms
Animals
Math
Arithmetic
Addition & Subtraction
Multiplication & Division
Decimals
Fractions
Conversions
Algebra
Working With Units
Equations & Expressions
Ratios & Proportions
Inequalities
Exponents & Logarithms
Factorization
Functions
Linear Equations
Graphs
Quadratics
Polynomials
Geometry
Fundamentals
Cartesian
Circles
Solids
Trigonometry
Probability & Statistics
Mean/Median/Mode
Independent/Dependent Variables
Deviation
Correlation
Sampling
Distributions
Probability
Calculus
Differentiation/Integration
Application
Projects
Biology
Chemistry
Physics
Geology
Nature
Arithmetic
Algebra
Geometry
Probability & Statistics
Calculus
News
&Cross;
Dont Go!
We Have More Great Sciencing Articles!
Related Sciencing Articles
What Happens When You Add Ammonium Nitrate to Water?
Why Do People Get Hiccups?
Why Does Adding Salt to Water Make it Colder?
Your Body On: A Heat Wave
x
Home »
Science »
Chemistry »
Reactions
Why Do Ice & Salt Together Burn the Skin?
By Chris Deziel; Updated March 13, 2018
Alina Utter/Hemera/Getty Images
Putting a layer of salt on your skin and then holding an ice cube on it is a good way to create a lot of pain and a permanent scar. The combination burns your skin, not with heat, but with cold, in much the same way excessively cold air can burn exposed skin on a winter's day. The burn is caused by frostbite, and it happens because salt lowers the temperature at which ice melts.
Adding Salt to Ice
Salt lowers the melting point of ice. That's why many communities spread salt on the road in winter, and it's the reason for the discrepancy in the zero points of the Fahrenheit and Celsius temperature scales. Whereas zero on the Celsius scale is the freezing point of pure water, on the Fahrenheit scale it's the freezing point of a mixture of water and ammonium chloride, which is a salt. The ability of salt to lower the melting point of ice is well known by traditional ice cream makers, who add salt to the ice surrounding a bucket of cream to lower the temperature of the cream far enough for it to freeze. Without the addition of salt, the cream wouldn't freeze.
How Salt Lowers the Temperature
When pure water is kept at its freezing point, the number of molecules breaking their bonds from the solid state and entering the liquid state is equal to the number undergoing the reverse process. Adding salt to the mixture reduces the concentration of water molecules in the liquid state, slowing down the rate of freezing. The melting rate is unaffected, though, and continues to draw the same amount of heat, which is needed for the molecules to break their hydrogen bonds. Because the freezing rate has decreased, less heat is added to the system, so the temperature goes down. This is why ice feels so much colder on your skin when you add salt.
Sciencing Video Vault
Cold Enough for Frostbite
If you put an ice cube on your skin and hold it there, the temperature of your skin will remain at 0 degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit). That's cold and uncomfortable, but it isn't cold enough to cause frostbite. However, if you put a layer of salt on your skin first, the temperature of the ice can quickly drop to minus 21 degrees Celsius (minus 6 degrees Fahrenheit) or lower, which is cold enough for frostbite to occur. The risk of frostbite increases with the amount of time the ice is in contact with your skin.
Frostbite Is Serious
Frostbite occurs when the skin freezes, and like burns, there are three degrees. With first-degree frostbite you feel tingling and discomfort, but everything returns to normal when the area is warmed. Blisters form in second-degree frostbite, but they eventually heal. Third-degree frostbite involves permanent damage to the skin tissues. The affected area may turn black or yellow, red blisters may form and sensation is lost until the area rewarms. At that point, dull, throbbing pain and itching and burning sensations begin, and they can persist for several days or even months until the formation of scar tissue is complete.
References
eMedicine Health: Frostbite
Encyclopedia Britannica: Fahrenheit Temperature Scale
Frostburg State University: Why Can Adding Salt to Ice Water Make the Ice Melt Slower?
Candac: Environment Canada Wind Chill Chart
About the Author
Chris Deziel holds a Bachelor's degree in physics and a Master's degree in Humanities, He has taught science, math and English at the university level, both in his native Canada and in Japan. He began writing online in 2010 with the goal of exploring scientific, cultural and practical topics, and at last count had reached over a hundred million readers through various sites.
More Articles
Hazards of Sodium Carbonate
How to Make Dry Ice for Fog
Does Kinetic Energy Increase in a Drink When Ice Melts?
Chemicals Used in Heat Packs
Cite this Article A tool to create a citation to reference this article Cite this Article
Choose Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago (B)
Deziel, Chris. "Why Do Ice & Salt Together Burn the Skin?" Sciencing, https://sciencing.com/ice-salt-burn-skin-6554297.html. 13 March 2018.
Deziel, Chris. (2018, March 13). Why Do Ice & Salt Together Burn the Skin? Sciencing. Retrieved from https://sciencing.com/ice-salt-burn-skin-6554297.html
Deziel, Chris. "Why Do Ice & Salt Together Burn the Skin?" last modified March 13, 2018. https://sciencing.com/ice-salt-burn-skin-6554297.html
Copy Citation
Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.
>
>
>
>
>
Related Content
How to Cool a Can of Soda in Ice Water & Salt
What Happens When You Add Ammonium Nitrate to Water?
Why Do People Get Hiccups?
Why Does Adding Salt to Water Make it Colder?
Your Body On: A Heat Wave
Which Burns Hotter: Ethanol or Methanol?
Copyright 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. All Rights Reserved. // Leaf Group Education
AdChoices
About Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright Policy