Zinc supplements during pregnancy may counteract damage from early alcohol exposure | Engineering Evil
Engineering Evil
Intel Portal for Weighted Data and Information
Menu
Skip to content
Home
For the Press, Bloggers, Hacktivists, and others
Why These Articles?
Zinc supplements during pregnancy may counteract damage from early alcohol exposure
Ralph Turchiano / October 8, 2012
2009 study posted for filing
Contact: Peter Coyle, Ph.D.
61-8-8222-3028
peter.coyle@imvs.sa.gov.au
Hanson Institute
Alcoholism Clinical and Experimental Research
Animal research has shown that binge drinking – even just once – during early pregnancy can cause numerous problems for the fetus, including early postnatal death. Fetal zinc deficiency may explain some of the birth defects and neurodevelopmental abnormalities associated with alcohol exposure. New rodent findings are the first to show that dietary zinc supplements throughout pregnancy can reduce some alcohol-related birth defects.
Results will be published in the April issue of Alcoholism: Clinical & Experimental Research and are currently available at Early View.
“Alcohol’s damage to the fetus depends not only on the amount and duration of alcohol exposure, but also on the timing of the exposure relative to the development stage of the cells and tissues involved,” said Peter Coyle, associate professor at the Hanson Institute in Adelaide, and corresponding author for the study. “Earlier work had shown that prenatal alcohol, as well as other toxins, can result in fetal zinc deficiency and teratogenicity by inducing the zinc-binding protein, metallothionein, in the mother’s liver. Since then, our group has confirmed the importance of metallothionein in alcohol-mediated birth defects.”
Coyle and his colleagues injected pregnant mice with either saline or a 25-percent solution of alcohol on gestational day (GD) eight; all mice received either a regular or zinc-supplemented diet from GD zero to 18. On GD 18, fetuses from all four groups – saline, saline plus zinc, alcohol, alcohol plus zinc – were assessed for external birth abnormalities. In addition, from birth to day 60, researchers examined the growth of survivors from all four groups.
“There were three key findings,” said Coyle. “One, fetal abnormalities caused by acute alcohol exposure in early pregnancy can be prevented by dietary zinc supplementation. Two, dietary zinc supplementation throughout pregnancy can protect against post-natal death caused by acute alcohol exposure in early pregnancy. Three, dietary zinc supplementation increases the mother’s blood zinc to overwhelm the transient drop in zinc caused by alcohol, which we believe prevents the fetal zinc deficiency and subsequent fetal damage.”
Coyle added that the rodents’ GD eight is the equivalent of weeks three to eight during a human pregnancy. “This encompasses a period when the mother is often unaware of her pregnancy and may not have changed her drinking habits,” he said. “Moreover, up to 60 percent of pregnancies are unplanned. This latter point is of concern when noting that binge drinking is common in the community and more likely to occur in the first trimester than later.”
Importantly, Coyle emphasized, his team is not suggesting that it is safe to drink while taking zinc during pregnancy.
“We have not determined whether zinc protects against all of the possible negative outcomes from alcohol exposure in pregnancy,” he said. “Nor would we recommend that makers of alcoholic beverages include zinc in their product so that women can drink while pregnant. Indeed, we take the conservative stand of a ‘no alcohol policy’ during pregnancy. What our studies do indicate is that dietary zinc supplementation could be as important as folic acid and applied as a simple prophylactic treatment in the human setting to prevent the effects of a range of insults in pregnancy.”
While zinc supplementation is relatively common, and zinc tablets can easily be found in herbal shops, Coyle cautioned that zinc can also affect the absorption of other trace elements and cause anemia if taken in excess. “So one must be wary of taking zinc supplements without professional oversight, and this is particularly so in pregnancy,” he said.
“Furthermore,” he added, “although dietary zinc supplementation has been used in human pregnancy, we do not have any information regarding the dose that would be required to protect against damage from alcohol nor even the dosage that could be harmful to fetal development. Indeed, we have not tested our hypothesis in humans and so it would be unwise to extrapolate any of our findings to humans. We would predict that zinc supplementation would only be effective around the time of alcohol intake to prevent fetal zinc deficiency. Taking zinc supplements a day after alcohol consumption would probably be too late to prevent fetal damage. Obviously more research is needed.”
###
Alcoholism: Clinical & Experimental Research (ACER) is the official journal of the Research Society on Alcoholism and the International Society for Biomedical Research on Alcoholism. Co-authors of the ACER paper, “Dietary Zinc Supplementation throughout Pregnancy Protects against Fetal Dysmorphology and Improves Postnatal Survival after Prenatal Ethanol Exposure in Mice,” were: Brooke L. Summers of the Hanson Institute/Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science, and of the Discipline of Physiology in the School of Molecular and Biomedical Science at the University of Adelaide; and Allan M. Rofe of the Hanson Institute/Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science. The study was funded by the Channel Seven Children’s Research Foundation of South Australia, Inc.
Share this:
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
October 8, 2012 in Disease and Conditions, Missed - Medical Breakthroughs. Tags: Alcoholic beverage, Binge drinking, Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder, Medical research, Oregon State University, Pregnancy, University of Adelaide, zinc, Zinc deficiency
Related posts
Diets of Pregnant Women Contain Harmful, Hidden Toxins ( like Tap Water )
Medications that block folic acid are associated with increased birth abnormalities
Zinc helps against infection by tapping brakes in immune response
Post navigation
← Blue light destroys antibiotic-resistant staph infection
Obama administration officials say there’s no point crafting detailed sequestration plans →
3 thoughts on “Zinc supplements during pregnancy may counteract damage from early alcohol exposure”
Pingback: URL
Pingback: Homepage
Pingback: Alcoholics: Separating the Men from the Boys. « just telling it as it is
Comments are closed.
Search Articles
Search
Translator
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,806 other followers
Follow
Top Trending Articles (Last 48 hours)
Decryption Key to MegaCloud DNC 2.0 File Dump
Adult Friend Finder Website Hacked: How To Search The Leaked Database Of Emails And Usernames For The Adult Dating Site
How a Serbian Colonel With Ancient Missiles Shot Down an F117
De Blasio ‘Needs To Explain Himself’ Over Cuba Honeymoon, Sandinista Support / Which he is proud of
Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales marries Tony Blair's former diary secretary in star-studded ceremony... and Alastair Campbell played the bagpipes!
Cannot load blog information at this time.
Mutagenesis – Biowarfare – EVES Drift: EVES Drift
Mushrooms may reduce the risk of cognitive decline by 50%
How a once friendly bacteria evolved into a hospital-infecting strain in Wisconsin
Heart Failure improved with Antioxidant Combination
Blood Cell Production Boosted with Nicotinamide Riboside
Vitamin C Can Shorten the Length of Stay in the ICU: A Meta-Analysis
Engineering Evil Tweets
DNA Codon sequence analyzer, basic python code youtu.be/NdOaJQddW6Q via @YouTube.....Please No Advertising	2 days ago
Follow @RalphTurchiano
EngineeringEvil
EngineeringEvil
Traffic Velocity
1,036,569 hits
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: