Treximet (sumatriptan and naproxen sodium) for Migraine Headaches
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Treximet® (sumatriptan and naproxen sodium)
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
Treximet® (sumatriptan and naproxen sodium) is a selective 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist (triptan) and antiinflammatory indicated for the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older who have a clear migraine diagnosis. It comes in tablet form and is administered by mouth.
Treximet generally begins to work within 2 hours. It is intended to reduce acute migraine symptoms of migraine attackss that have already begun. It should not to be used as a prophylactic therapy to prevent the onset of migraine or to treat hemiplegic or basilar migraine.
Overuse of acute migraine drugs can cause medication overuse headaches. Overuse is considered dosing more than 5 days per month. Symptoms may need to be treated, and detoxification from migraine medications may be required.
What are the ingredients in Treximet?
The active ingredients in Treximet are sumatriptan and naproxen sodium.
How does Treximet work?
Treximet works by binding with 5-HT1B/1D receptors on blood vessels in the brain. It narrows the blood vessels (constriction) surrounding the brain, which is correlated with the relief of migraine. It also reduces the inflammatory substances in the body that can trigger head pain, nausea, sensitivity to light and sound, and other migraine symptoms.
Treximet contains a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), naproxen. NSAIDs inhibit the synthesis of inflammatory mediators. Treximet works best if it is taken as soon as migraine symptoms appear.
What are the possible side effects of Treximet?
Many clinical trials evaluated the safety and efficacy of Treximet. The most common side effects experienced by those taking Treximet include:
Dizziness
Nausea or dry mouth
Pain or tight feeling in your chest, throat, jaw, or neck
Fatigue- feeling weak, drowsy, or tired
Flushing in pediatric patients (warm, red skin)
Treximet can also cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal problems including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines.
This is not an exhaustive list of all potential side effects of Treximet. For more information, consult your doctor or healthcare provider. If you notice any new or worsening side effects when taking Treximet, contact your doctor or healthcare provider immediately.
Things to note about Treximet
Treximet tablets are a fixed combination of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium. Before starting Treximet talk with your doctor if you:
Have a history of hypersensitivity to sumatriptan and naproxen sodium
Have a history of coronary artery disease (CAD), angina or heart attacks
Have a history of high blood pressure or high cholesterol
Have a history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine
Have a history of stroke, transient ischemic attacks (TIAs)
Have a history of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome
Have a history of peripheral vascular disease (circulation problems)
Have a history of ischemic bowel disease
Have taken a ergot-containing medication within the 24 hours prior to migraine
Have taken an MAO-A inhibitor within 2 weeks prior to migraine onset
Take methotrexate, aspirin, furosemide, probenecid, lithium, warfarin, propanalol or other beta blockers
Take anti-depressant medicines including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), or tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)
Have severe hepatic (liver) impairment
Have severe renal (kidney) problems
Are pregnant or planning to get pregnant, Treximet should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
Before taking Treximet make sure to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including prescription and nonprescription, vitamins, and herbal supplements. Treximet and other medicines may affect each other, causing side effects.
Individuals with the above conditions should be monitored closely while taking Treximet.
If there is no response to the first migraine attack treated with Treximet, a physician should reconsider the migraine diagnosis prior to using the medication in any subsequent attacks.
A cardiovascular evaluation should be performed on patients who have never taken a triptan medication but who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) before starting Treximet. For those with a cardiac history, the first dose of Treximet should be administered in a medically supervised setting and an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be performed immediately following the dose.
Dosing Information
Treximet tablets are taken by mouth with water or other liquids. They can be taken with or without food. Tablets should not be split, crushed, or chewed. Treximet comes in 1 strength, 85/500 mg (sumatriptan and naproxen sodium). Treximet contains a higher amount of sumatriptan than the lowest effective dose.
If only partial migraine relief is attained or symptoms return quickly, adults may take a second dose 2 hours after the first. The maximum adult dose in a 24-hour period is 2 tablets. The maximum recommended dosage for children 12-17 is 85/500 mg in a 24-hour period. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration.
Before taking Treximet make sure to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including prescription and nonprescription, vitamins, and herbal supplements. Treximet and other medicines may affect each other, causing side effects. Because Treximet can cause dizziness, weakness, or drowsiness, you should not not drive a car, use machinery, or do anything requiring you to be fully alert when taking this medication. Keep track of when you have migraine attacks and when you take Treximet so you can monitor its effectiveness and communicate with your doctor about how the medication is working for you.
For additional details, read the full prescribing information of Treximet.
Sign up for emails from Migraine.com:
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Written by: Linda Saxl Minton | Last reviewed: March 2019
View References
TREXIMET prescribing information available at: https://www.gsksource.com/pharma/content/dam/GlaxoSmithKline/US/en/Prescribing_Information/Treximet/pdf/TREXIMET-PI-MG.PDF. Accessed 4/26/18.
Recommended Reading
Chronic Migraine: The Body’s Slow Leak
by Holly Baddour
The Differences Among Us: What I Wish Others With Migraine Knew
by Sarah Hackley
Migraine In America 2017: Migraine Frequencies – Exactly How Different Are They?
by Editorial Team
When Migraine Whispers Poison in Your Ear
by Anna Eidt
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.