January 19, 2018 | ReGen by Folinique
1-888-508-0320 24/7/365
Safe & Effective for Hair Regrowth.
Home
Science
Blog
Contact
Reviews
FAQ
Free Trial
Jan 19, 2018
You Are Here: Home / 19 Jan 2018
What is Minoxidil?
Categories:
Blogs
Male pattern baldness or androgenic alopecia is an embarrassing yet common situation in more than 50% of men. If you are suffering from this type of hair loss, it is time to try ReGen for Men, which contains the acclaimed ingredient minoxidil. Unlike other products, ReGen for Men does not require a long time to encourage hair growth. With a host of natural ingredients, including minoxidil, hair growth is noticeable in just two months with regular use.
What Makes Minoxidil so Powerful?
The drug called minoxidil is typically used for treating hair loss. How it works is not fully understood by scientist, although it is a potassium channel opener, which causes the cell membranes to hyperpolarize. When hyperpolarization happens, the blood vessels widen and the potassium channels open, which leads to more blood, oxygen, and nutrients that go into the hair follicles. As a result, the follicles begin to shed, but new and thicker hairs develop and replace the old hair.
How was Minoxidil Derived?
Originally, minoxidil was used to treat ulcers, the primary reason why the drug was developed before the 1960s. However, the treatment that contained minoxidil was ineffective against ulcers when tested in clinical trials. The doctors noticed that it was a potent vasodilator, which was why it became a popular drug for treating high blood pressure in the late 70s.
From then, the distribution of oral tablets started, which were mainly used by patients with hypertension. They later noticed that there were side effects, including hair growth.
Is Minoxidil FDA Approved?
Yes, minoxidil is FDA-approved in 1988 for treating baldness in men. The approval was due to one of the two earlier studies conducted by a professor at the University of Colorado School of Medicine. The first research was for testing the drug for its effectiveness against hypertension, while the other was for the unexpected hair growth side effect.
It was in August 1988 when the FDA approved minoxidil, and in February 1996, the FDA also approved for the sale of the drug over the counter, along with the production of generic minoxidil.
How Does ReGen for Men Use Minoxidil?
ReGen for Men is a male hair regrowth formula form Follinique. The can is applied topically. ReGen for Men uses five percent minoxidil, along with other ingredients, such as propylene glycol, alcohol, purified water, and other natural ingredients. When combined, the formulation creates an easy-to-use topical solution that is not greasy.
ReGen for Men has paired up minoxidil with the other potent ingredients to enhance the results for men who are suffering from hair loss. You will see the difference in just a couple of months if you follow the instruction to use the product twice a day.
To try ReGen for Men for yourself or a loved one, visit the Follinique site. There you can purchase ReGen for Men, as well as, a variety of other hair care products. Some of these products include Gray Defense Shampoo and Conditioner, Hair Warrior, as well as, ReGen’s hair care supplement. Bundle the products together and save money!
Jan 19, 2018 admin No Comments
Search for:
ReGen Tweets – Curated tweets by TwitterDev
Recent Posts
Which Razor Brands Do Guys Love The Most?
4 Of The Best Tips to Care For Your Beard
Top 5 Hair Mistakes Men Can Easily Make (And Easily Avoid)
A Guide To Up Your Grooming Game
Best Natural Ingredients To Promote Healthy Hair Growth
Categories
Blogs
Press Releases
Uncategorized
Home
Science
Blog
Contact
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy