Omtechmed-Natural Home Remedies|Yoga|Pranayama|Astrology|Mobile
Omtechmed (Om=Pranayam/Yoga, Tech=Technology, Med=Natural Remedies): Home Remedies For Migraine Headache, Migraine Symptoms and migraine headache treatment
Home Remedies For Migraine Headache, Migraine Symptoms and migraine headache treatment
In this article we will describe everything about Migraine headache, tension headache, and home remedies for migraine, migraine treatment, headache on top of head, headache back of head, stress headache etc.
What is Migraine
Migraines are characterized by severe head pain often accompanied by other symptoms.. Migraines can affect people of all ages. A migraine can cause severe throbbing pain or a pulsing sensation, usually on just one side of the head. It's often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to light and sound.The duration of a migraine attack can vary, however most migraine attacks will last at least four hours. Migraine patient have different experiences of migraine attack. Some get migraine attack in morning time and some get migraine attack during afternoon or night. So there is no fix pattern or timing of Migraine headache.
Common symptoms of Migraine
Migraine headache is a result of specific changes within the brain. It causes severe head pain that is often accompanied by sensitivity to light, sound, or smells. Common symptoms may include:
Eye Pain
Sensitivity to light or sound
Nausea
Vomiting
Severe pain, usually on one side of the head.
Other types of headaches can also cause severe pain, and not all headaches are migraines. For example, some people describe the pain of cluster headaches as the worst pain they have experienced.
Migraines often begin in childhood, adolescence or early adulthood. Migraines may progress through four stages: prodrome, aura, headache and post-drome, though you may not experience all stages.
Warning symptoms known as aura may occur before or with the headache. These can include flashes of light, blind spots, or tingling on one side of the face or in your arm or leg.
Medications can help prevent some migraines and make them less painful. The right medicines, combined with self-help remedies and lifestyle changes, may help.
Causes of Migraine
The exact cause of migraines is not known. Changes in neurotransmitter levels within the brain are thought to play a role.
The cause of migraines is not yet known. Different people have seen different causes or we can say triggers for migraine. It is assumed that they result from abnormal activity in the brain. This can affect the way nerves communicate as well as the chemicals and blood vessels in the brain.
However, the following triggers are considered some reasons for migraines:
Emotional Reasons: Stress, depression, anxiety, excitement, and shock can cause a migraine.
Hormonal changes: Women may experience migraine symptoms during menstruation, due to changing hormone levels. Fluctuations in estrogen seem to trigger headaches in many women.
Physical causes: Tiredness and shoulder or neck tension/stiffness, wrong posture, and physical overexertion have all been linked to migraines. Low blood sugar can also act as triggers.
Insufficient sleep: Insufficient or less sleep is a major cause of migraine. So proper 8 hours of sleep is necessary for migraine patients.
Sinus: Sinus and allergy patients have also sometimes headaches and migraine.
Diet: Alcohol and caffeine can trigger migraines. Some specific foods can also have this effect, including cheese, citrus fruits, and foods containing the additive tyramine. Irregular mealtimes and dehydration have also been known as some triggers. Salty foods and processed foods may trigger migraines.
Medications: Some sleeping pills, hormone replacement therapy (HRT) medications, and the combined contraceptive pill have all been known as possible triggers.
Triggers in the environment: Flickering screens, strong smells, smoke and loud noises can set off a migraine. Stuffy rooms, temperature changes, and bright lights are also possible triggers.
Treatment
There is currently no single cure for migraines. Treatment is aimed at preventing attack, and alleviating the symptoms that occur. Pain killers are given to get immediate relief from headache which may be dangerous for patients taking regularly. Lifestyle alterations that might help reduce the frequency of migraines include:
Getting enough sleep
Reducing stress
Drinking plenty of water
Avoiding certain foods triggering migraine
Regular physical exercise
Intake magnesium in your diet
Home Remedies for Migraine
Ginger
Ginger is very beneficial in migraines. It blocks chemicals that promote muscle contractions, impact hormones and regulate inflammation in blood vessels in the brain.
Use ginger in your diet: Drink ginger tea a few times throughout the day until you get relief. Make sure to drink it at the onset of your headache.
Chew Raw Ginger: Simply chewing on a piece of raw ginger root will also help treat the problem and relieve symptoms like nausea and digestive distress.
Apple Cider Vinegar
Being a nutritional immunity booster and power supply, apple cider vinegar helps reduce migraines. In starting you will not like its taste but after sometime you will be used to consume it. Apple cider vinegar also offers health benefits like aiding detoxification, controlling blood sugar, regulating high blood pressure, reducing bone pain, promoting weight loss and relieving constipation.
Add one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to a glass of water.
Mix in one tablespoon of honey.
Drink this daily to prevent as well as treat migraines.
Peppermint
Journal of Neuroscience and many studies shows that the fragrance of the peppermint herb helps in relieving a headache. Moreover, it's anti-inflammatory properties soothe the nerves. You can drink freshly brewed peppermint tea or even massage your temples with peppermint oil and leave it on for at least half an hour. Do this few times a day till you feel better.
Pranayama and Yoga for Migraine
Pranayama and yoga can help in calming the mind and relaxing the blood vessels. The Brahmri Pranayyam or the Honey Bee Pose is one of the best exercises to treat a headache. It is essentially a breathing technique where the humming sound vibrations tend to soothe the nerves around the brain and forehead. Anulom vilom is very good home remedy for migraine. You can easily do pranayama by reading this:-How To Do Pranayama
Turmeric
Turmeric is a natural pain reliever, detoxifier, and anti-inflammatory. Golden Tea which is a paste of ground turmeric, ground ginger, cracked black pepper, and raw honey. When you have a migraine that is beginning to get more severe, put a teaspoon of this paste into a cup of hot water with a squeeze of lemon. Drinking a cup helps in relieving migraine. This is a natural home remedy for migraine.
Basil-Honey Tea
Tension headaches can be treated effectively by consuming basil. This herb will relax and soothe your nerves and help you combat a stubborn headache. Lemon and honey take away the pungency of the basil and are relaxing for the body.
What You Need To Do
1. Add basil leaves to a cup of boiling water and let them soak for a few minutes.
2. Strain the tea .
3. Add the lemon juice and honey.
4. Sip while the tea is hot. It is advised to have two to three cups in a day.
Feverfew Tea
Several theories suggest that your head begins to pound as the blood vessels begin to expand and put pressure on the nerves. This potent herb is said to relax the tension in your blood vessels while also constricting them, thus easing the pain and reducing inflammation
Green Tea
The caffeine present in green tea improves blood flow in the brain, thus giving relief from a headache. It also stimulates the nervous systems and removes free radicals from the body
Almonds
Salicin present in almonds acts as a natural aspirin, the pain relieving medicine. Almonds also contain magnesium, which is usually lacking in migraine patients. Just grab some almonds the next time you get a headache for quick relief.
Pumpkin Seeds:
Pumpkin seeds are full of magnesium. A very high source actually and this mineral is extremely important in helping to prevent migraines. One quarter cup of pumpkin seeds contains almost half of the daily requirement of magnesium. Eating regularly pumpkin seeds reduces the migraine attacks.
So if you follow above steps and consume the suggested diet, pranayama and nutrients you will definitely get benefits in migraine headache.
- April 22, 2018
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Home Remedies
4 comments:
Ornaldo 27 May 2018 at 11:02
I have recovered from a prolonged illness, and often feel fatigued after returning home from office. My doctor advised me to have protein supplements, and try PEMF devices to get instant relief from headache and tiredness.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
alex amarxon 29 June 2018 at 03:46
can safely treat a remarkably broad range of medical conditions, often more effectively than conventional pharmaceutical drugs. For some of the most difficult to treat conditions, such as multiple sclerosis and neuropathic pain, cannabis often works when nothing else does. CBD & Arthritis
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Unknown 19 July 2018 at 03:12
Ok, well natural home remedies are herbal alternatives for first aid that you do at home without having to visit a doctor.
For common colds and other ailments you would use things like chamomile, sweet basil, mellein, etc.
For cuts and scrapes you would use like witch hazel and stuff like that. Basically anything that is not considered traditional medicine. If you were preferring natural home remedies, you would not take cough syrup, you would drink honey tea with lemon. If you are searching for the Home Remedies & Natural Cures for the common problems . Then visit the hundreds of natural Home Remedies you get instant of knowledge.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Freddie theo 14 August 2018 at 21:30
Best ways to explain about the topic . Great information provided.hp officejet pro 8610 driver and hp laserjet p1006 driver
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Home
About Me
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Translate
Contact Form
Name
Email *
Message *
Urticaria Hives Treatment, Hives Symptoms, Urticaria Causes, Best 5 Home remedies for Hives Pitti Uchalna
In this article we will tell you about Urticaria or Hives Treatment, Hives Symptoms, Urticaria Causes, Pitti Uchalna, Stress hives, home...
Search This Blog
June 2018 (1)
April 2018 (2)
March 2018 (6)
February 2018 (9)
Popular Posts
How to lose weight in 1 month
How to lose weight and become fat to fit. How to lose weight, weight loss tips, weight loss diet, how to lose belly fat all topi...
Urticaria Hives Treatment, Hives Symptoms, Urticaria Causes, Best 5 Home remedies for Hives Pitti Uchalna
In this article we will tell you about Urticaria or Hives Treatment, Hives Symptoms, Urticaria Causes, Pitti Uchalna, Stress hives, home...
Health Benefits of Walnut, Akhrot Benefits
Benefits of Walnut In this article we will tell you about Health Benefits of Walnut, Akhrot Benefits, akhrot tree, walnuts omega 3,...
Categories
Food not good with milk (1)
Home Remedies (13)
How to Cure Animal & Insect Bites (1)
Mobile Android (2)
Connect With Us
Follow by Email
Disclaimer
All content provided on this blog is for informational purposes only. The owner of this blog makes no representations as to the accuracy or completeness of any information on this site or found by following any link on this site. The owner will not be liable for any errors or omissions in this information nor for the availability of this information. The owner will not be liable for any losses, injuries, or damages from the display or use of this information.
Please follow the content of blogs at your own risk under expert supervision/advice.. Theme images by fpm. Powered by Blogger.