Minoxidil | Female Hair Loss Expert | Hair Loss for Women
Search for:
Call Me Back	Free Consultation
UK & Europe: +44 (0)845 359 2915
Home
About Ranbir
Understanding Hair Loss
Female Hair Loss Treatments
Videos
Blog
Contact
Minoxidil
If you’ve suddenly noticed a marked hair fall on your pillow or in the shower or it has started to appear visibly thinner, it will understandably be a very worrying time and it can have a devastating impact on your self-esteem. Female hair loss is thought to affect 8 million women in the UK, whether it’s progressive female pattern baldness or a hair loss condition such as alopecia areata. The good news is that there are effective treatments available.
The hair loss medication Minoxidil is one of the most commonly used hair loss solutions on the market, proven to be extremely effective against mild to moderate hair loss. However, before deciding whether this is the right treatment for you, it’s worth finding out exactly what it can, and most importantly, what it can’t do. Below you’ll discover everything you need to know about this popular treatment.
What is Minoxidil?
Minoxidil for women was originally designed as a pill to treat hypertension. However, it was soon discovered that many of those taking the medication experienced excessive hair growth.
This inspired experts to research further into its hair growth benefits as a potential solution for those suffering from hair loss. After being applied directly to the scalp, the Minoxidil solution showed excellent results, leading to the development of the topical treatments you see today.
The results and limitations of Minoxidil
When used as a treatment for hair loss in women, Minoxidil 2% has shown to have highly effective results. It’s actually the only topical hair loss treatment to have received approval from the FDA in the US. However, it’s only designed to treat androgenetic alopecia (female pattern baldness). So if you’re suffering from any other type of hair loss it may not be the best treatment option available.
It’s also not going to work overnight. From the many clinical studies carried out, the majority of women noticed results from four to eight months. It’s also worth noting these results will only last as long as you continue to use the solution.
You’ll also find stronger 5% Minoxidil treatments are available, though these tend to be used to treat male pattern baldness and they are only available via prescription. Most women find the 2% strength sufficient enough to provide excellent results.
Is Minoxidil for women right for you?
Minoxidil is a fantastic treatment for mild androgenetic alopecia, as well as for those suffering from post-pregnancy hair loss. However, it’s not a permanent solution and when used to treat genetic-related hair loss, it will only slow down the effects, rather than eliminate the problem completely.
Before trying out any hair loss treatment, it’s advised you seek advice from a female hair loss expert that can help assess exactly what is causing the problem. Minoxidil won’t be effective for more severe hair loss conditions and you may have an underlying health condition that needs to be addressed.
Contact Ranbir
If you have any questions or need advice on hair loss then please complete the for below and I’ll help guide you through to the perfect solution for you.
Name*
First
Email*
Message*
CAPTCHA
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Advice For Women
Hairloss
Advice & Tips
There are a number of solutions that can help hair loss
Find out more
Name*
First
Phone*
Email*
Dropdown*
TreatmentLorem ipsumLorem ipsum
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Birmingham
86 Hagley Road
Birmingham
B16 8LU
Tel 0845 359 2924
Directions
London
100 Harley Street
London
W1G 7JA
Tel 0845 359 2924
Directions
Manchester
61 Oxford Street
Oxford Place
Manchester
M1 6EQ
Tel 0845 359 2924
Directions
Glasgow
496 Argyle Street
Glasgow
G2 8NH
Tel 0845 359 2924
Directions
Book a Free Consultation	Contact Us
© Copyright Hair Loss For Women