Ruptured Ovarian Cysts - Symptoms and Treatment
Ruptured Ovarian Cysts - Symptoms and Treatment
Last Updated: December 27th, 2010
Identifying
Each month as a woman goes through her menstrual cycle follicles in the ovary grow. Among these a single follicle will house an egg and expel it after maturation. The follicle or sac within which the egg is contained dissolves. In some cases the egg may not be released from the sac or the sac does not dissolve and gets filled with fluid. This will result in an ovarian cyst. The ovarian cyst may grow and eventually be dissolved or absorbed by the body.
There are occurrences however, wherein the ovarian cyst is not dissolved and bursts instead resulting in a ruptured ovarian cyst. This is potentially harmful and can even be life threatening.
Symptoms and Treatments
A common cause of a ruptured ovarian cyst is disordered folliculogenesis- this is brought about by the lack of leutenizing hormones (LH). Leutenizing hormones are released from the pituitary gland of the brain. This is what signals the ovary to release the egg from the follicle. A lack of this will cause eggs to remain attached to the follicles and later develop into cysts that may rupture.
Symptoms of a ruptured ovarian cyst may include:
Menstrual irregularities- this refers to problems within the menstrual cycle. This can be manifested by getting periods too frequently, not getting periods or unpredictable menstrual periods.
Pelvic pain- this is characterized by a pain that can radiate from the lower back to the thighs that can be constant or dull. This can also occur shortly before or after menstrual periods
Dyspareunia- pelvic pain felt on the onset or in the process of sexual intercourse
Nausea and vomiting- a queasiness in the stomach that may or may not include an urge to let out the contents of the stomach similar to that experienced during pregnancy
Breast tenderness- a sensitivity in the breasts
Fullness or heaviness of the abdomen- a feeling of pressure or being bloated in the abdominal region
Pressure on the rectum or bladder- a weight in the areas of the rectum or bladder
Excretion problems- difficulty emptying the bladder completely and difficulty with bowel movements.
Weight gain- an increase in body mass
Treating a ruptured ovarian cyst can be treated with any of the following:
Oral contraceptives- taking in birth control pills or hormone supplements can help regulate the menstrual cycle and prevent the development of follicles which can grow into ovarian cysts
Pain relievers- non steroidal drugs and anti inflammatory medication can help reduce pelvic pain
Warm compress- applying warmth to the lower abdomen next to the ovaries can relax muscles and reduce cramping and discomfort.
Surgery- in cases where the ruptured ovarian cyst becomes a threat, it may be removed through surgery
See our main page for step by step ovarian cyst treatment.
Required Disclaimer: I am not a doctor or certified healthcare practitioner. The Ovarian Cysts Treatment program and www.ovariancyststreatment.com contain information that is based on personal experience, the experiences of other women suffering from ovarian cysts and PCOS, online and offline research. Medical doctors were consulted in the creation of Ovarian Cysts Treatment, but the information on this website and in the Ovarian Cysts Treatment ebook is not intended to be a substitute for visiting your own doctor.
Most doctors are not aware of alternative treatment methods for ovarian cysts and we recommend you share the information in Ovarian Cysts Treatment with your doctor and proceed with their approval. There are risks involved with any medical treatment and you should consult your doctor before beginning treatment.
Home - Contact - About Us - FAQ - Privacy Policy - Affiliates - Order Now
Natural Cure For Ovarian Cysts - Ovarian Cyst Symptoms - Ovarian Cyst Treatments - Ruptured Ovarian Cysts Symptoms and Treatment - What Are The Type of Ovarian Cysts - What Causes Most Ovarian Cysts
Copyright © 2019 Yew First Publishing, Inc - All Rights Reserved