Tylenol - Uses, Complications, Recalls and Warnings
Drugwatch.com
High-Risk Drugs & Devices
Drugs
Proton Pump Inhibitors
Nexium
Prilosec
Cipro, Levaquin & Avelox
Antibiotic Side Effects
Xeljanz
Xeljanz Side Effects
Talcum Powder
Talc & Mesothelioma
Talc & Ovarian Cancer
Valsartan
Valsartan Side Effects
3M Combat Arms Earplugs
Devices
Hip Replacement
Hip Replacement Complications
Hernia Mesh
Hernia Mesh Complications
Knee Replacement
DePuy Attune Knees
IVC Filter
IVC Filter Complications
Transvaginal Mesh
Transvaginal Mesh Complications
Essure Permanent Birth Control
Essure Side Effects
Health Issues
Side Effects
Health Guides
Women's Health
Pregnancy
Birth Control
Conditions
Diabetes
Mesothelioma
Ovarian Cancer
Mental Illness
Personal Health
Men
Children
Seniors
Consumer Resources
Drug Interactions
Medical Device and Drug Disposal
Off-Label Drug Use
Big Pharma
Patient Stories
Latest Story
Essure Caused Mom’s 15 Years of Pain, Ectopic Pregnancy
March 28, 2019
Featured Articles
Latest Feature
Talcum Powder: The Feminine ‘Hygiene Extra’ That May Have Fueled a Cancer Crisis
February 26, 2019
Active Lawsuits
Lawsuits Directory
Prescription Drug Lawsuits
Proton Pump Inhibitors Lawsuits
Cipro, Levaquin & Avelox Lawsuits
Valsartan Lawsuits
Xeljanz Lawsuits
Product Lawsuits
Talcum Powder Lawsuits
3M Combat Arms Earplugs Lawsuits
Medical Device Lawsuits
Hip Replacement Lawsuits
Hernia Mesh Lawsuits
IVC Filter Lawsuits
Knee Replacement Lawsuits
Transvaginal Mesh Lawsuits
Injured by a prescription drug or defective medical device?
Get a Free Case Review
Our Community
About
Our Team
Drugwatch Editorial Policy
Press Room
Our Sponsors
Accreditations & Affiliations
Drugwatch FAQs
Our Expert Contributors
Madris Tomes, CEO of Device Events Medical Device Data Expert
Rebecca Montrone Certified Nutritionist
Tess Schulman, PhD Certified Paralegal
Mireille Hobeika, PharmD Pharmacist
News
Latest News
FDA Stops Sales of Transvaginal Mesh for Pelvic Organ Prolapse
April 16, 2019
Drugwatch Podcast
Latest Podcast
Expert: More Transparency Would Bolster Big Pharma’s Image
September 4, 2018
Speak With An Expert
(888) 645-1617 Who Am I Calling?
Menu
Search
Search
(888) 645-1617 Call
On This Page
Tylenol Uses
How Tylenol Works
Common Side Effects of Tylenol
Complications Associated with Tylenol
Tylenol Use During Pregnancy
Tylenol Recalls
Tylenol Forms and Doses
Taking Tylenol
Acetaminophen Labels
Products Containing Tylenol
Tylenol Facts
Dosage 4000 mg daily (max)
Used to Treat Pain, fever, osteoarthritis, chronic back pain, headache
Manufacturer Johnson & Johnson subsidiary McNeil Laboratories
Black Box Warnings Potential for severe liver damage
Active Ingredient Acetaminophen
FDA Approval Status 1974
By Emily Miller
This page features 23 Cited Research Articles
Last modified: October 3, 2018
Related Pages
Tylenol Overview
Lawsuits
Side Effects
Home Tylenol
Tylenol
The popular pain reliever Tylenol is found in more than 600 prescription and over-the-counter medications. While Tylenol is relatively safe when taken at the correct dosage, ingesting too much of the drug can lead to serious complications, including liver failure.
Tylenol Facts
By Emily Miller
This page features 23 Cited Research Articles
Last modified: October 3, 2018
Tylenol Facts
Dosage 4000 mg daily (max)
Used to Treat Pain, fever, osteoarthritis, chronic back pain, headache
Manufacturer Johnson & Johnson subsidiary McNeil Laboratories
Black Box Warnings Potential for severe liver damage
Active Ingredient Acetaminophen
FDA Approval Status 1974
Tylenol (acetaminophen) is the most popular over-the-counter (OTC) pain relief medication used in the U.S. and around the world. The drug was first sold in 1955 as Tylenol Elixer for Children, and today millions of American adults and children use the drug every week for common ailments such as head and body aches, colds and fevers. In fact, according to the Consumer Healthcare Products Association, about 52 million consumers in the U.S. use products containing Tylenol each week.
Manufactured by Johnson & Johnson subsidiary McNeil Laboratories, the drug is also available in generic. It is marketed as an effective painkiller that is safer than non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin or ibuprofen, which are associated with stomach discomfort or bleeding.
Acetaminophen is the active ingredient in Tylenol and generic name of the drug, commonly found in other medications as well. Pharmacies compound Tylenol into more than 600 prescription and OTC medicines, and the drug generates more than $1 billion a year for McNeil.
Tylenol Uses
Tylenol belongs to a class of drugs called centrally acting analgesics and antipyretic agents. An analgesic relieves pain. An antipyretic reduces fevers. For more than 50 years, doctors prescribed Tylenol for both uses.
Unlike other analgesics like aspirin (Bayer) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), Tylenol does not treat inflammation. It is most effective for minor aches and pains but can be used safely for long-term chronic pain such as arthritis. In fact, the American College of Rheumatology recommends Tylenol to treat arthritis, and it is especially useful in types of arthritis that are not accompanied by inflammation, like osteoarthritis.
How Tylenol Works
Researchers don’t fully understand how Tylenol works. Although there are several theories, none seems to satisfy everyone.
One theory is that Tylenol controls fever and pain by blocking an enzyme called cyclooxygenase (COX-1). COX sends out chemicals known as prostaglandins that make the body feel pain and induce fever in response to an injury or illness. If this theory is correct, then Tylenol works very similarly to aspirin, ibuprofen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Some researchers believe Tylenol works on the endocannabinoid system, which plays a part in the sensation of pain in the body. The main ingredient in marijuana, THC, also works through this system, which explains why some people look to marijuana for a form of pain relief.
A third theory is that Tylenol may also alter signaling from the neurotransmitter serotonin. Other researchers believe the drug’s effectiveness stems from the fact it inhibits neurotransmitter receptors in the brain that register pain, such as N-methyl-D-aspartate and substance P.
Still, other researchers say Tylenol may work through a combination of all of these theories. And if you ask Johnson & Johnson: “It works by elevating the body’s overall pain threshold so you feel less pain, and lowers your fever by helping your body eliminate excess heat.”
Common Side Effects of Tylenol
Tylenol on its own is a non-prescription (over-the-counter) medication. While prescription medications are required to include certain prescribing information, such as common side effects, non-prescription medications like Tylenol do not typically contain the same information. Therefore, much of the information regarding side effects provided for over-the-counter Tylenol medications refers to serious side effects of the drug, usually due to overdose.
Common Side Effects of Acetaminophen Include:
Constipation (infrequent or difficult to pass bowel movements)
Agitation
Headaches
Insomnia (trouble falling asleep or staying asleep)
Vomiting
Complications Associated with Tylenol
Tylenol is associated with serious complications, including liver damage and rare but dangerous skin reactions. It is the leading cause of acute liver failure in the U.S., and the drug in some cases led to fatalities. The active ingredient in Tylenol, acetaminophen, accounts for more than 100,000 calls to poison centers, roughly 60,000 emergency-room visits and hundreds of deaths each year in the U.S. In England, it is the leading cause of liver failure requiring transplants.
“Acetaminophen is a dangerous drug,” Dr. John Brems, professor of surgery and chief of intra-abdominal transplantation at Loyola University in Chicago told ABC News. “Many of these patients took acetaminophen in addition to alcohol. I end up transplanting three to four patients per year, and two to three die before we can transplant them. It is probably the most dangerous OTC drug in this country.”
Timeline of FDA Tylenol Actions:
2009
FDA issued guidelines for adding overdose information to packages.
2011
The agency confirmed the link between Tylenol and liver damage and added a black box warning, the agency’s strongest warning, to the drug’s label.
2011
FDA asked drug manufacturers to limit the strength of acetaminophen in prescription drug products to 325 mg.
2011
The agency added a warning highlighting the potential for allergic reactions (e.g., swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, difficulty breathing, itching, or rash) to the label of all prescription drug products that contain acetaminophen.
2013
FDA released a safety warning about Tylenol and skin reactions.
2014
The agency announced its intent to take steps to withdraw approval of prescription combination drug products containing more than 325 mg of acetaminophen.
2015
FDA announces findings from review of acetaminophen use during pregnancy.
Tylenol Use During Pregnancy
The FDA reviewed possible risks of acetaminophen use during pregnancy and released its findings in a January 2015 Drug Safety Communication.
According to the safety communication, two U.S. studies indicate that 60 to 70 percent of pregnant women in the U.S. reported using acetaminophen anytime during pregnancy.
One study reported an increased association between acetaminophen use in pregnancy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children. Women reporting any acetaminophen use in pregnancy were also significantly more likely to have a child with a hyperkinetic disorder (HKD) diagnosis or a child who used ADHD medications, compared to unexposed women, according to the FDA.
“Associations for all outcomes were strongest for acetaminophen use in multiple trimesters and for more than 20 weeks during pregnancy,” the FDA noted.
The FDA said the study “had a number of methodologic limitations” and concluded “the weight of evidence is inconclusive regarding a possible connection between acetaminophen use in pregnancy and ADHD in children.”
Tylenol Recalls
Tylenol faced a string of recalls from 2009 to 2012. Some Tylenol products didn’t return to store shelves until 2013.
In 2009, McNeil recalled many Tylenol brands because a chemical for treating wood made it into the medicine, causing nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. In 2011, it expanded the recall to include several more lots of the medication. The recall involved tens of thousands of Tylenol products and prompted Johnson & Johnson to close a manufacturing plant. Furthermore, the FDA stepped in to supervise quality control measures at three plants. Then in 2012, McNeil recalled nearly 600,000 bottles of infant Tylenol for faulty dosing systems that could result in babies receiving too little or too much medicine.
Chicago Tylenol Murders
The drug was also linked to several murders in 1982 called the Chicago Tylenol Murders. Several people in Chicago died after taking Extra-Strength Tylenol caplets that were laced with cyanide. McNeil was not implicated in the murders because the bottles came from different factories, and all seven deaths took place in the Chicago area, ruling out the possibility of tampering during production.
After the murders, Johnson & Johnson sent warnings to hospitals and distributors, stopped all advertising and producing Tylenol and recalled approximately 31 million bottles. The murders remain unsolved.
Other Examples of Tylenol Recalls
Product
Reason
Date
TYLENOL®, Extra Strength Caplets, 225 count	 Uncharacteristic musty, moldy odor	 6/28/11
TYLENOL® 8 Hour, TYLENOL® Arthritis Pain, and TYLENOL® upper respiratory products, and certain lots of BENADRYL®, SUDAFED PE®, and SINUTAB® products	 Insufficient development during manufacturing	 1/14/11
Tylenol Cold Multi Symptom Daytime Liquid 8 oz Citrus Burst	 Mislabeled - alcohol content not listed on front panel	 11/27/10
Tylenol 8 Hour Caplets in 50 count bottles	 Off odor - musty/moldy	 10/18/2010
Tylenol Forms and Doses
Tylenol is available in tablet, chewable tablet, capsule, suspension or solution (liquid), extended-release (long-acting) tablet and orally disintegrating tablet forms. It is also available in several dose amounts, usually from 300mg to 1000mg. People can obtain it in prescription and non-prescription strengths. The maximum indicated dose in a 24-hour period should not exceed 4,000 mg. Taking more than 4,000 mg of Tylenol a day puts users at risk for liver failure. Experts say anyone taking Tylenol long-term for chronic pain should consider having liver function tests done once or twice a year.
Taking Tylenol
Users do not need to take Tylenol with food or on a full stomach. Don’t take acetaminophen if you drink three or more alcoholic drinks a day, and don’t take more than one product that contains acetaminophen at a time.
Child-Specific Product
To administer the medicine to children, use the child-specific product with a dosing cup or dropper that comes with it. Teaspoons found in the home vary in size and their use to administer Tylenol could overdose or underdose a child. You may need to shake the liquid before each use.
Chewable Tablet
The Tylenol Meltaways chewable tablet softens in the mouth to make it easier to chew. Chew the tablet thoroughly before swallowing it.
Meltaways
Meltaways are orally disintegrating tablets. Place the tablet in your mouth and either wait for it to dissolve or chew it before swallowing.
Extended–Release Tablets
Extended-release tablets are meant to be swallowed whole. Do not split, chew, crush or dissolve these tablets before swallowing.
Acetaminophen Labels
Because acetaminophen is present in hundreds of medications, it’s important to read the labels of all prescription and OTC drugs to see if they contain it.
Some labels may replace the word acetaminophen with:
APAP
AC
Acetaminoph
Acetaminop
Acetamin
Acetam
The FDA, National Council for Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP) and pharmacies across the nation are working to ensure “acetaminophen” is fully spelled out on prescription labels. NCPDP estimates that more than 75 percent of pharmacies in the U.S. are part of this effort.
Products Containing Tylenol
Tylenol is used in combination with other active ingredients in a number of prescription and OTC medications.
Most Common Tylenol Products:
Tylenol Brand Products
Extra Strength Tylenol
Tylenol Arthritis Pain
Tylenol Cold Multi-Symptom Severe
Tylenol Cold & Flu Severe
Simply Sleep
Children’s Tylenol Meltaways Chewable Tablets
Children’s Tylenol Plus Cold
Children’s Tylenol Plus Cough & Sore Throat
Regular Strength Tylenol
Regular Strength Tylenol
Tylenol Sinus Congestion and Pain Severe
Tylenol Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime
Tylenol Cold Sore Throat
Children’s Tylenol Oral Suspension
Tylenol Meltaways Chewable Tablets
Children’s Tylenol Plus Cold & Cough
Children’s Tylenol Plus Flu
Tylenol 8 Hour Muscle Aches and Pain
Tylenol Sinus Congestion and Pain Daytime
Tylenol Cold Multi-Symptom Nighttime
Tylenol PM
Infant’s Tylenol Oral Suspension
Children’s Tylenol Plus Multi-Symptom Cold
Children’s Tylenol Plus Cough & Runny Nose
Over-the-Counter Brand-Name Medications with Acetaminophen:
Actifed
Alka-Seltzer Plus LiquidGels
Anacin
Benadryl
Cepacol
Contac
Coricidin
Dayquil
Dimetapp
Dristan
Excedrin
Feverall
Formula 44
Goody’s
Powders Liquiprin
Midol
Nyquil
Panadol
Robitussin
Saint Joseph
Aspirin-Free Singlet
Sinutab
Sudafed
Theraflu
Triaminic
TYLENOL Brand Products
Vanquish
Vicks
Zicam
Zydone
Prescription Brand-Name Medications with Acetaminophen:
Endocet
Fioricet
Hycotab
Hydrocet
Hydrocodone Bitartrate
Lortab
Percocet
Phenaphen
Sedapap
Tapano
Tylenol with Codeine
Tylox
Ultracet
Vicodin
Please seek the advice of a medical professional before making health care decisions.
Share This Page:
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Related Pages
Tylenol Overview
Lawsuits
Side Effects
Tell Us What You Think
Did You Find Drugwatch Helpful?
Yes No
How helpful was this page?
This article changed my life!
This article was informative
I have a question
How can we improve this page?
This article contains incorrect information
This article doesn't have the information I'm looking for
I have a question
How can we improve this page?
Name
Email Address
Type Your Message Here
Submit
Thank You for Your Feedback
If you found our resources and information helpful, please take a minute to review us on Facebook and Google. This will help our consumer safety information reach more people.
We appreciate your feedback. One of our content team members will be in touch with you soon.
Next Topic Lawsuits
Written By Emily Miller Editor
Email
Emily Miller is an award-winning journalist with 7 years of professional experience writing and editing content for reputable media organizations across the U.S. She also has 13 years of personal experience as a patient living with Crohn’s disease. Her coverage of U.S. prescription drug prices for Drugwatch has been published or cited by news outlets, including The Hill, Fox Business and United Press International. Some of her qualifications include:
Society of Professional Journalists and The Alliance of Professional Health Advocates member
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Health Literacy certificates
2016 Florida Society of News Editors third place winner in Breaking News
23 Cited Research Articles
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). (n.d.). Acetaminophen Information. https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/InformationbyDrugClass/ucm165107.htm
Aleccia, J. (2009, July, 1). Q&A: what's the problem with taking Tylenol? NBC News. Retrieved from http://www.nbcnews.com/id/31672184/ns/health-health_care/t/qa-whats-problem-taking-tylenol/#.Uaizv5yyL-I
Rubin, E. (2011, December 5). Excessive amounts of acetaminophen can be fatal. Psychology Today. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/201112/excessive-amounts-acetaminophen-can-be-fatal
Park, A. (2009, July 3). The FDA and painkillers: What's safe now? Time. Retrieved from http://content.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1908408,00.html
U.S. News and World Report. (2012, June 1). Many Americans taking too much acetaminophen. Retrieved from http://health.usnews.com/health-news/news/articles/2012/06/01/many-americans-taking-too-much-acetaminophen
Consumer Healthcare Products Association. (2012). Acetaminophen fact sheet. Retrieved from https://www.chpa.org/AcetFactSheet.aspx
Tylenol (2013). Our products. Retrieved from http://www.tylenol.com/products
Lee, W.M. (2004). Acetaminophen and the U.S. acute liver failure study group: Lowering the risks of hepatic failure. Hepatology 40(1):6-9. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15239078
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). (n.d.). FDA Drug Safety Communication: Prescription Acetaminophen Products to be Limited to 325 mg Per Dosage Unit; Boxed Warning Will Highlight Potential for Severe Liver Failure. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm239821.htm
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). (2012, July 3). Notice to industry: Draft guidance for over-the-counter products that contain acetaminophen. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/downloads/drugs/guidances/ucm424898.pdf
Rockoff, J. D. (2012, February 18). J&J Recalls Infants' Tylenol. The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved from https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970204792404577229072114500132
Farrell, S. E. (2012, February 6). Acetaminophen toxicity. Medscape. Retrieved from http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/820200-overview
Childs, D. (2006, December 20). Are your painkillers actually killing you? ABC News. Retrieved from http://abcnews.go.com/Health/PainManagement/story?id=2739177&page=1#.Ua4TcJxqP-I
Bricketto, M. (2013, May 15). Mass tort for Tylenol liver injuries requested in NJ. Law 360. Retrieved from http://www.law360.com/articles/441738/mass-tort-for-tylenol-liver-injuries-requested-in-nj
Elliott-Engel, A. (2007, November 6). $5 million verdict upheld in Infants' Tylenol case. The Legal Intelligencer. Retrieved from https://www.law.com/thelegalintelligencer/almID/900005495263/
Sifferlin, A. (2013, August 2). Acetaminophen linked to fatal skin reactions. Retrieved from http://healthland.time.com/2013/08/02/acetaminophen-linked-to-fatal-skin-reactions/
U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2014, August 15). Acetaminophen. Retrieved from https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/meds/a681004.html
FDA.gov. (2013, August 1). Acetaminophen: Drug Safety Communication - Association with Risk of Serious Skin Reactions. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm363041.htm
FDA.gov. (2016, February 26). FDA Drug Safety Communication: FDA warns of rare but serious skin reactions with the pain reliever/fever reducer acetaminophen. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drugsafety/ucm363041.htm
FDA.gov. (2016, April 13). Acetaminophen Information. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drugsafety/informationbydrugclass/ucm165107.htm
FDA.gov. (2015, September 1). FDA has reviewed possible risks of pain medicine use during pregnancy. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/DrugSafety/UCM429119.pdf
Monson, PharmD, K. (2017, January 19). Children’s Tylenol Side Effects. Retrieved from: http://kids.emedtv.com/children's-tylenol/children's-tylenol-side-effects.html
FDA. (2009, June 24). Acetaminophen: Avoiding Liver Injury. Retrieved from: https://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm168830.htm
View All Sources
On This Page
On This Page
Tylenol Uses
How Tylenol Works
Common Side Effects of Tylenol
Complications Associated with Tylenol
Tylenol Use During Pregnancy
Tylenol Recalls
Tylenol Forms and Doses
Taking Tylenol
Acetaminophen Labels
Products Containing Tylenol
Close
Who Am I Calling?
Calling this number connects you with a Drugwatch representative. We will direct you to one of our trusted legal partners for a free case review.
Drugwatch's sponsors support the organization's mission to keep people safe from dangerous drugs and medical devices. For more information, visit our sponsors page.
(888) 645-1617
Navigate
FAQ
Lawsuits
FDA
News
Drugs
Health Info
Devices
Drugwatch Podcast
Side Effects
Beyond Side Effects
Drugwatch.com
Keep people safe from potentially harmful drugs, medical devices and procedures by informing them of medical conditions, severe side effects and ways to take action.
More About Us
(888) 645-1617 Who Am I Calling?
Connect with Drugwatch on Facebook
Connect with Drugwatch on Twitter
Connect with Drugwatch on YouTube
Contact Drugwatch by Email
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: Verify here.
Drugwatch is located at:
1 South Orange Ave, Suite 201, Orlando, FL 32801
The information on this website is proprietary and protected. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Any unauthorized or illegal use, copying or dissemination will be prosecuted. Please read our disclaimer for more information about our website.
Drugwatch.com is sponsored by law firms. This website and its content may be deemed attorney advertising. Prior results do not predict a similar outcome. For more information, visit our sponsors page.
© 2019 Drugwatch.com Privacy Policy