Top Tips For Hair Growth - Stop Hair Loss & Regrow Hair
Product Reviews
Hairloss Guides
Best Hair Supplements
Best DHT Blockers
Best Biotin Shampoos
Minoxidil Guide
Best Hair Loss Concealer
Best Hair Growth Oils
Solution Finder
Blog
Top Tips For Hair Growth – Stop Hair Loss & Regrow Hair
By Andrea | October 26, 2017
Last Updated on January 9, 2019
Both men and women desire to have long, thick, healthy hair.
Although this attractive quality might come naturally when you are young, maintaining healthy hair and even re-growing hair can become more challenging as you age.
As men and women age, hair loss and thin hair becomes more a nightmare.
In fact, 35 million men suffer from hair loss and 21 million women suffer from hair loss nationwide.
Additionally, 85 percent of men and women who suffer from hair loss, thinning hair or another type of scalp condition typically use some form of hair regrowth treatment method or vitamin supplement to help.
Although age is inevitable for both and women, hair loss doesn’t have to be something that you have to suffer with.
In fact, there are a number of hair regrowth treatments you rely on to help you combat hair loss and regrow hair.
And, no, these hair regrowth treatments do not involve expensive or potentially dangerous hair transplant or laser hair therapy procedures or a wig.
There are some things you can do naturally to reduce hair loss and help to regrow hair. And we are about to tell you about the top hair regrowth tips for growing healthy hair.
Before we get into the top tips for natural hair growth, you first need to understand what causes hair loss.
Yes, age is one of the biggest culprits, but there may be some other underlying issues that need to be addressed.
All in all, having a better understanding of what causes hair loss and thin hair will enable you to determine the best possible hair regrowth treatment.
What Causes Hair Loss?
The causes of hair loss have been studied by physicians, dermatologists, and scientific researchers for years.
Studies have shown that hair loss is caused by a number of issues as well as a combination of issues, such as age, stress, illness, genetics and even a vitamin deficiency.
In fact, sometimes it is our very own hair care practices that contribute to hair loss and thin hair.
Here is a list of the most common causes of hair loss and a detailed description of each:
Aging – Aging is likely the primary reason for hair loss in men and women.
Although some adults experience hair loss as early as their 30s, approximately 40 percent of men and women struggle with thinning hair and hair loss after the age of 40.
In fact, more than 55 percent of women will experience hair loss or thinning hair at some point in their lives.
This is because menopause is a prime reason for hair loss in women as they age.
Stress and Anxiety – We all know that stressful situations cause gray hair or for one to “pull their hair out”; however, this expression isn’t that far from the truth.
Although you likely aren’t surprised to read that stress is one of the primary reasons for hair loss, you might be surprised to discover that the stress response that causes hair loss is actually rooted beneath the surface of the skin.
Studies have actually shown that increased stress levels can lead to numerous skin diseases, such as breakouts and rashes
Hormonal Changes and Chemical Imbalances – Another common reason for hair loss is hormonal changes.
This is the primary reason for hair loss in women. Women who are pregnant or are going through menopause will often experience hair loss.
This is because both of these scenarios result in severe hormonal changes and chemical imbalances.
As mentioned above, which is why hair loss is so common in pre- and post-menopausal women over the age of 50.
Pattern Baldness or Androgenetic Alopecia – Male-pattern baldness is scientifically known as Androgenetic Alopecia.
This is the leading cause of hair loss in men. In fact, male-pattern baldness will affect 95 percent of men in their lifetimes.
Furthermore, Alopecia and similar hair loss conditions affect 2 percent of Americans, roughly 6.5 million men and women suffer from it.
Although most of us have heard of male-pattern baldness, which affects mostly men, women aren’t exactly off the hook. In fact, a similar condition known as female pattern hair loss also affects aging women.
Scalp Infections – Regardless of whether it is brought on by stress or another type of skin ailment, most skin conditions cause some form of hair loss, whether it is on the arms, legs or scalp.
As a result, scalp infections will often lead to hair loss.
Ringworm is one example of a serious scalp infection. Scalp infections can include itchy or irritated areas on the scalp, and can also be extremely painful.
The good news is that once the infection is treated, hair can begin to re-grow naturally.
Medications – Hair loss is a common side effect from taking various medications, particularly those used to help treat arthritis, depression, heart conditions, high blood pressure and cancer.
A number of birth control medications can also cause hair loss.
Radiation therapy used to treat cancer can also cause severe—and sometimes permanent—hair loss.
Vitamin Deficiency – In some cases we are responsible for our own hair loss.
Hair loss can be caused by a vitamin deficiency.
For example, low iron levels can cause thinning hair or hair loss. This is a common issue among women. Iron deficiencies can lead to dull, dry, and damaged hair and nails, which can lead to easy breakage.
Aggressive Hairstyling and Treatments – Another common cause of hair loss is our very own hair care practices.
Excessive or aggressive styling and hair treatments can attribute to hair loss.
For example, excessive brushing or styling, such as pulling hair too tightly can damage hair, leading to severe breakage, hair loss, and thin hair.
Additionally, hair treatments, such as hot oil treatments, hair straightening, permanent color treatments and even perms can cause inflammation on the scalp and hair follicles, which can eventually cause hair loss.
What Causes Hair Thinning? The Top Tips to Regrow Hair Naturally
Through years of scientific and medical research, hair loss experts and dermatologists have determined that the majority of men and women who suffer from hair loss do not realize hair is thinning until approximately 50 percent of hair has fallen out.
As a result, proper hair care practices and natural hair regrowth treatments should begin earlier in life.
Although thinning hair may not seem as severe as hair loss, it is often the first sign of hair loss, and it can impact your life just as seriously.
Hair thinning is commonly caused by the same issues as hair loss, but can eventually lead to complete hair loss if left untreated.
The same basic principles and processes for combating hair loss and thinning hair are the same, as well as the methods for natural hair regrowth and care.
All in all, by making some life changes and using the right hair and scalp products, you can help combat hair loss and hair thinning and help stimulate hair re-growth for rich, full, and healthy hair.
Why Diet is Important for Hair Re-Growth
As mentioned above, one of the common causes of thinning hair and hair loss is a vitamin deficiency. By simply making better diet choices or becoming more aware of what you eat each day and how much, you can ensure that you are feeding your body the most essential vitamins and minerals to help regrow hair naturally and to ensure healthy hair and scalp.
Here is a list of the top hair growth vitamins that you should consider adding to your daily diet.
1. Biotin (Vitamin B7) – Biotin, also known as Vitamin B7 is also known as “the hair growth vitamin”.
Consuming an abundant amount of Vitamin B7 or Biotin can play a crucial role in healthy hair production.
Because hair contains proteins (also known as Keratin), when those proteins come into contact with Biotin, it creates a cell reaction, which produces amino acids.
Those amino acids and proteins help build stronger, healthier hair.
Many medical and clinical studies have shown the benefits of consuming sufficient amounts of Biotin, and how it can help with healthy hair production.
Because hair contains proteins (specifically, Keratin), those proteins interact with Biotin, create a cell reaction, and produce amino acids.
The results? Stronger proteins, stronger cells, and stronger, healthier hair.
In addition to strengthening hair, Biotin also provides a wide range of health benefits, such as the development of healthy skin cells, supporting the digestive tract, and maintaining a healthy metabolism.
The good news is that the healthier you are, the healthier your hair and scalp, and the easier it will be to regrow hair naturally.
Biotin can be found in a number of natural foods, such as the following:
Peanut butter
Bananas
Organic meats
Eggs
Avocado
Cauliflower
Berries
Fish
Legumes
Mushrooms
2. Zinc – Zinc is another healthy hair vitamin that helps regrow hair naturally.
Zinc helps build healthy cells in the hair follicles and also helps to regulate hormones, both of which can impact hair growth.
Once hormones are regulated, the properties and natural compounds in zinc work to strengthen the protein structure in hair follicles.
According to studies performed by Columbia University of Health Services, not only is Zinc crucial for healthy hair growth, individuals who lack a sufficient amount of zinc will find it difficult to manage hair and even notice hair thinning over time.
Furthermore, studies have also shown that many Alopecia areata patients have zinc deficiencies, which are easily treatable with oral zinc dietary supplements.
Zinc can be obtained in many animal foods, such as the following:
Meat
Poultry
Cheese
Seafood
Whole grains
Legumes
Sunflower seeds
Pumpkin
3. Vitamin C – We now know that stress is among the top common causes for hair loss.
Stress is also known as oxidative stress. Studies have shown that stress plays a key role in the aging process, and leads to the breakdown and damage of cellular structures, lipids, proteins, DNA and, yes, hair.
One of the best vitamins that not only combats against oxidative stress and prevents the aging and hair loss is Vitamin C.
Vitamin C is an extremely powerful and potent antioxidant that promotes healthy hair growth and the creation of collagen. Collagen is a protein comprised of amino acids that are naturally found in hair, nails, and skin.
As we age, the collagen production slows down, which is what causes wrinkles, fine lines, and hair loss.
The good news is Vitamin C is commonly found in delicious fruits, such as oranges and strawberries.
Some of the best foods naturally containing high levels of Vitamin C include the following:
Oranges
Raw red and green peppers
Kale
Brussel sprouts
Broccoli
Strawberries
Grapefruit
Guava
Kiwi
4. Niacin – Niacin, also known as Vitamin B3 is a water-soluble vitamin. Its primary function is to help the body convert food into energy.
A healthy dose of Niacin can help balance moisture in the skin and increase blood circulation, which helps bring more oxygen and nutrients to hair follicles and scalp, and help prevent common skin issues, such as rashes and acne breakouts.
Some of the best Niacin-rich foods include the following:
Fish
Chicken and turkey breast
Lean pork chop
Lamb liver
Lean beef
Peanuts
Portobello mushrooms
Raw green peas
Sunflower seeds
Avocado
Mushrooms
Eggs
Tuna
Nuts
5. Vitamin A – Healthy cells require Vitamin A for growth, development, and to maintain healthy cell production.
A helps the skin glands produce natural essential oils, which help moisturize the scalp and protect the hair and skin. Vitamin A contains antioxidants, which help keep hair healthy and shiny.
Some foods that are naturally rich in Vitamin A include the following:
Sweet Potato
Carrots
Peaches
Spinach
Dried apricots
Mangoes
Kale
Milk
Eggs
Yogurt
Cod liver oil
Pumpkin
6. Vitamin E – Vitamin E, also commonly referred to as Aloe is a “good-skin” vitamin. In fact, Aloe Vera is one of the most common skin treatment products.
This is because Aloe Vera is rich with Vitamin E and it contains high-grade moisturizing and antioxidant properties to help repair and rebuild skin tissue.
This is why Aloe Vera is commonly used to help soothe sunburns.
Vitamin E is applied directly to the scalp, it helps reduce inflammation and damages to hair follicles and increases oxygen and improved blood circulation to help stimulate the hair regrowth process.
Some foods that are naturally rich in Vitamin E include the following:
Almonds
Fish
Peanuts
Beans
Leafy Greens
Sunflower seeds
Eggs
Fruit
Meat
Nuts (and nut oils)
Poultry
Vegetable oils (corn, cottonseed, soybean, sunflower)
7. Vitamin D – Hair follicles are highly sensitive to hormone levels and production, and Vitamin D plays a crucial role in hair growth.
In fact, according to an article published by The Atlantic, Alopecia areata patients are often found to have a Vitamin D deficiency.
Some of the best ways to naturally absorb Vitamin D is through (safe) sun exposure and by eating the right foods.
In fact, sitting in the sun for approximately 10 to 15 minutes will give your body approximately 10,000 units of Vitamin D.
Some foods that are naturally rich in Vitamin D include the following:
Mackerel
Halibut
Eel
Salmon
Whitefish
Swordfish
Maitake mushrooms
Portabello mushrooms
8. Vitamin B12 – Vitamin B12 is another essential vitamin for natural hair growth.
Vitamin B12 helps promote blood circulation and transporting oxygen to the scalp and hair follicles, which helps restore and stimulate new, healthy hair growth.
Vitamin B12 also provides helps support other healthy bodily functions, such as supporting the nervous system, improving cognitive functions, improving digestion and decreasing risks for heart disease.
According the National Institutes of Health (NIH), approximately 15 percent of people in the United States are Vitamin B12 deficient.
One of the main reasons for this is because Vitamin B12 is naturally found in animal food products, many vegans and vegetarians have a Vitamin B12 deficiency.
Some foods that are naturally rich in Vitamin B12 include the following:
Poultry
Organ meats
Wild-caught fish
Eggs
Dairy products
9. Iron – As mentioned above, an iron deficiency is a common cause of hair loss.
The American Academy of Dermatology recommends consuming iron-rich foods to help individuals get a sufficient amount of iron and to also aid in healthy hair care.
Additionally, the Harvard Medical School notes that vegetarians or women with heavy menstrual periods are more likely to experience an iron deficiency when compared with men.
Furthermore, taking an iron supplement and consuming the right foods are the best ways to naturally get the recommended daily dose or iron and to help re-grow hair.
Some foods that are naturally rich in iron include the following:
Red meat, pork and poultry
Seafood
Beans
Spinach
Dried raisins
Dried apricots
Iron-rich cereal, bread, and pasta
Peas
10. Fish Oil – Last, but certainly not least, fish oil is one of the best essential oils to help naturally re-grow hair.
Fish oil is naturally rich in Omega-3 fatty acids and Vitamin E, which help nourish the hair, provide hair with proteins, and reduce inflammation caused by skin conditions.
In fact, according to a 2015 study published in the Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology, a six-month supplementation involving the use of omega-3, omega-6, and antioxidants were used to help treat hair loss.
The results of the study concluded that 89 percent of the 120 women who participated in the study noticed an improvement in hair density, hair follicles, and hair growth.
Some foods naturally high in fish oil or Omega-3 fatty acids include the following:
Salmon
Mackerel
Tuna
White fish
Sardines
Egg yolks
Walnuts
Hemp seeds
Canola oil
Tofu
The Best Hair Loss Shampoo and Conditioner
Now that you understand how diet plays a role in combating hair loss, thinning hair, and restoring the hair growth process, let’s review some of the top hair loss products designed for both a man and woman—and all for under $20.
A. Shapiro MD Shampoo
Shapiro MD Shampoo is a top-rated and proven hair loss treatment solution.
One of the reasons why it is such an effective product is that it is designed with a proprietary formula that is backed by over 10 years of research, and is also tested by a team of doctors, including Dr. Shapiro himself.
Shapiro MD Shampoo is designed with an advanced triple action formula with three main active ingredients.
These three active anti-hair loss ingredients include Saw Palmetto Berry extract, EPIGALLOCATECHIN-3 -GALLATE (EGCG), and Caffeine Derivative.
Shapiro MD Shampoo has proven to provide the following benefits:
Revitalize and restore thicker, healthier, fuller hair
Treats male pattern baldness (Alopecia areata)
Designed for both men and women
Hair loss triple action formula designed with natural DHT blockers and other pharmaceutical-grade ingredients
Backed by over 10 years of scientific research and 5 years of product development research
Shapiro MD Shampoo and Conditioner are tested and proven to be anti-hair loss treatment solutions that actually work.
MD Shapiro has proven to help naturally slow down the hair loss process due to aging, and also helps to naturally re-grow hair.
B. Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Rogaine is the number one hair loss treatment product for treating male pattern baldness is men.
Rogaine has been a trusted brand for over 20 years, and has proven to be an effective and professional-grade hair regrowth treatment solution. Men have noticed drastic results in the improvement of hair loss, hair thinning, and natural hair re-growth from using Rogaine.
What is Minoxidil?
Minoxidil is the only FDA-approved ingredient used to treat baldness and promote hair regrowth.
The majority of hair regrowth products or hair treatment products contain Minoxidil in their formulas.
Some hair regrowth products contain between 5 percent and 10 percent Minoxidil, although there is some controversy around the safety of being exposed to high amounts of Minoxidil.
Rogaine is one of the only hair loss and hair treatment products available on the market that is FDA approved for 2 percent Minoxidil and 5 percent Minoxidil (to be applied up to two times daily) on the scalp.
Rogaine has proven to provide the following benefits:
Regrow fuller, thicker, natural hair
Effectively treats moderate hair loss
More than 20 years of clinical results
Clinically proven to treat hair loss and male pattern baldness
Clinically proven to regrow up to 25 percent more hair in three months
Designed for both men and women
Number one product recommended by dermatologists for hair growth
FDA-approved Minoxidil Rogaine product
C. The Best Natural Products for Hair Care
1. Organic Castor Oil By Sky Organics
Sale
5,297 Reviews
Sky Organics - Organic Castor Oil
Strengthen Thin Hair, Promote Hair Growth, And Prevent Hair Loss.
Replenishes The Scalp’s Natural Oils And Revitalizes The Hair.
Support Natural Keratin, Making The Hair Stronger And Smoother.
Buy on Amazon
Although we have researched a variety of vitamins, minerals, essential oils and natural ingredients that are all contribute to healthy hair growth, castor oil is another natural ingredient that can do wonders for great skin and hair.
This is one reason why we had to include Organic Castor Oil by Sky Organics on our list of the best natural products for hair care.
Organic Castor Oil by Sky Organics is rich in hair growth vitamins and fatty acids, which help keep hair and skin hydrated and healthy, giving it that exceptional glow.
Because castor oil is rich in Vitamin E, it is helps to nourish, replenish, and revitalize hair and repair split ends.
Organic Castor Oil by Sky Organics is produced with 100 percent pure and the highest quality castor oil sourced directly from farms in India.
It is cold-pressed, which means it doesn’t contain any chemicals or additives during production.
As a result, Organic Castor Oil retains all of its natural healing properties, making it safe to use for all hair and skin types.
Organic Castor Oil doesn’t cause any allergies, irritations or other harmful side effects.
Organic Castor Oil by Sky Organics has also proven to soothe sunburns, restore softness and hydration in the skin and the scalp, reduce and prevent hair loss, reduce the appearance of scars and stretch marks and treat skin infections, including Ringworm and other scalp infections.
Organic Castor Oil by Sky Organics is also easy to use. Simply use one to three drops of castor oil and massage onto clean hair, skin, nails and/ or the face where treatment is needed.
Allow the castor oil product to sit on the infected areas for up to several hours to allow for full absorption.
PROs:
100 percent pure castor oil
Safe and easy to use
Designed for all hair types
Designed for both men and women
Reduces and prevents hair loss
Helps treat skin and scalp infections
Leaves hair feeling silky and smooth
Great source of Vitamin E
High-quality product
CONs:
Thick and dense product
Can leave hair and skin feeling greasy
Can come with potent odor
Organic Castor Oil by Sky Organics can be found and purchased on Amazon for approximately $14, making it an incredibly cost-effective product.
2. Fekkai Apple Cider Shampoo
299 Reviews
Fekkai Apple Cider Shampoo
Infused With Apple Cider.
Scented By Fresh Apple And Pear.
Silicone-Free Purifying Cleanser Clarifies And Removes Build Up.
Buy on Amazon
Doesn’t this product just sound like something you want to use?
Fekkai Apple Cider Shampoo is infused with apple cider and is scented with fresh apples and pears. You may be wondering how apple cider or natural apple juice can help replenish and revitalize hair, well, we will tell you.
Apples contain a wealth of vitamins, including Vitamin C, B vitamins (including Niacin) calcium, iron, and magnesium, just to name a few.
We already know that Vitamin C, B vitamins, Niacin and iron are all great for promoting hair health, so this is why we chose to list this product as one of our best natural shampoo products.
Fekkai Apple Cider Shampoo contains a number of herbs, oils, vitamins and ingredients, including the following:
Water
Sodium Laureth Sulfate
TEA-Lauryl Sulfate
Cocamidopropyl Betaine
Cocamide MEA
Decyl Glucoside
PEG-7 Glyceryl Cocoate
Fragrance (Parfum)
Sodium Lauroyl Oat Amino Acids
Isostearyl Ethylimidazolinium Ethosulfate
Polyquaternum-7
Panthenol
Pyrus Malus (Apple) Cider Vinegar (Acetum)
Hydroxypropyltrimonium Honey
EG-60 Almond Glycerides
Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein PG-Propyl Silanetriol
Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein
Hydrolyzed Oat Protein
Hydrolyzed Silk
Cinnamidopropyltrimonium Chloride
Pyrus Malus (Apple) Fruit Extract
Verbena Officinalis Extract
Aleurites Moluccana (Kukui) Seed Extract
Rosmarinus Officinalis (Rosemary) Leaf Extract
Salvia Officinalis (Sage) Leaf Extract
Retinyl Palmitate
Tocopheryl Acetate
Benzophenone-4
PEG-150 Distearate
Citric Acid
Trisodium EDTA
Diazolidinyl Urea
Methylparaben
Propylparaben
Cinnamyl Alcohol
Benzyl Salicylate
Hydroxyisohexyl 3-Cyclohexenecarboxaldehyde
Linalool, Benzyl Benzoate
Hexyl Cinnamyl
Yellow 5 (CI19140)
Green 3 (CI 42053)
The proprietary formula in Fekkai Apple Cider Shampoo is designed to revitalize hair, repair damage and reduce tension in the hair, and also remove buildup on the scalp for a complete cleansing treatment—from root to tip.
PROs:
Incredibly cost effective
Cleanses scalp and removes buildup
Repairs and revitalizes hair
Contains essential hair vitamins, such as Vitamin C, Vitamin B, Niacin and Iron
Designed for both men and women
Contains some natural and organic ingredients
CONs:
Contains sulfates and parabens
Contains “fragrance”, which may be disguised chemicals
May not be the best option for color-treated hair
Fekkai Apple Cider Shampoo can be found and purchased on Amazon for approximately $15, making it another incredibly cost-effective product to help prevent hair loss.
3. Organix: Nourishing Coconut Milk Shampoo and Conditioner
192 Reviews
Organix - Nourishing Coconut Milk Shampoo + Conditioner
Hydrate And Nourish Your Hair.
Gentle Cleansers Wash Away Impurities.
Exclusive Blend Of Organic Coconut Milk To Nourish Your Hair.
Buy on Amazon
Organix provides a line of quality hair care products, so we had to include this complete shampoo and conditioner system on our list.
The Organix Coconut Milk Shampoo and Conditioner system fully nourishes the hair—and the senses—with an exclusive blend of organic coconut milk to nourish the hair and whipped egg for added proteins.
The combination of coconut milk, natural coconut oils, and proteins adds strength, elasticity, hydration and balance for a complete hair-replenishing, hydrating, and cleansing system.
Organix Coconut Milk Shampoo and Conditioner contains the following ingredients:
Water
Cetyl Alcohol
Behentrimonium Methosulfate
Parfum
Cetearyl Alcohol
Cetearyl Glucoside
Glyceryl Stearate
Glycerin
Cyclopentasiloxane
Dimethicone
Simmondsia Chinensis (Jojoba) Seed Oil
DMDM Hydantoin
Panthenol
Silk Amino Acids
Cocos Nucifera Extract (Coconut)
Albumen
Cocos Nucifera Oil (Coconut)
Hydrolyzed Milk Protein
Tocopheryl Acetate (Vitamin E)
Tetrasodium EDTA
Methylchloroisothiazolinone
Methylisothiazolinone
Coumarin
Organix Coconut Milk Shampoo and Conditioner are easy and safe to use.
After shampooing with Organix Shampoo, simply apply the Organix Conditioner generously to hair as you would with any shampoo and conditioner product.
Be sure to work the conditioner thoroughly through the ends. Allow the conditioner to sit between three and five minutes. Finally, rinse thoroughly.
PROs:
Incredibly cost effective
Shampoo conditioner system
Contains natural ingredients
Designed for all hair types
Designed for both men and women
Truly natural products
Designed to cleanse, hydrate, and revitalize hair
Does not contain sulfate or parabens
Great conditioner for curly or wavy hair
Pleasant odor
Spreads evenly when compared with other shampoo conditioner products
CONs:
Bottles may be too small
“Organic” ingredients may be disguise for chemicals
May cause tangling
Organix Coconut Milk Shampoo and Conditioner 13-ounce bottles can be bought as a set via Amazon for approximately $15.
Conclusion: Top Tips for Hair Growth and Best Hair Loss Shampoos and Conditioners
So, there you have it. If you suffer from hair loss or thinning hair, then all hope is not lost.
By simply making some lifestyle changes, such as consuming more vitamins and minerals, trying an herbal supplement, practicing safe hair care practices and using the best natural hair loss shampoos and conditioners and other products, you can combat hair loss for good—no matter your age or whether you are a man or woman.
Finally, it’s important to remember that regardless of your age or health, many adults experience more hair loss as they age.
Regardless of which anti-hair loss method you choose, repairing and reversing the hair loss process is a long-term, ongoing process that requires patience and regular care and attention in order to ensure healthy hair.
So, where do you start?
First, find out the root cause of hair loss (Is it due to aging, such as hormonal imbalance? A vitamin deficiency? Another medication? Or a pre-existing medical condition?)
Then, work with your dermatologist or health care professional to help you find the best hair loss treatment method that is right for you.
Last update on 2019-04-22 / Affiliate links / Images from Amazon Product Advertising API
Posted in Hairlossable Blog
31 Comments
Andrea on October 28, 2016 at 3:45 pm
Give it a try ! You Might be surprised!
Reply
Aarya on December 24, 2016 at 5:13 pm
My hairs are falling very fast so I just want to know one easy and good solution to stop it
Reply
Andrea on December 29, 2016 at 1:38 pm
Rogaine !
Reply
saurabh on January 7, 2017 at 2:41 pm
My hairs are falling very fast so I just want to know one easy and good solution to stop it.
Reply
saurabh on January 7, 2017 at 2:42 pm
My hairs are falling very fast so I just want to know one easy and good solution yo stop it
Reply
Andrea on January 10, 2017 at 1:51 pm
I always suggest rogaine first 🙂
Reply
Bradley on February 7, 2017 at 2:23 pm
Hi my hair is fallling out and im looking for an easy method to stop it and hopefully get it to grow back
Reply
Andrea on February 9, 2017 at 6:17 pm
Hi Bradley! I always suggest rogaine first 🙂
Reply
Femi Agbana on November 13, 2017 at 3:37 pm
Please Andrea, send me ur email ID to femi.agbana@gmail.com
Reply
Althaf Ahmed on November 15, 2017 at 6:59 am
Hi Femi,
Let me know what your concern is, and I will let Andrea know.
Reply
Ram on November 13, 2017 at 1:54 pm
Hi I’m 25 my hair it is very thin at front some time it seems like bald.please suggest me best one to stop it.
Reply
Althaf Ahmed on November 14, 2017 at 10:40 am
Hello Ram,
Thanks for writing in. If you are in the United States, I highly recommend Shapiro MD, if outside, go with Procerin. Read more on our homepage.
Reply
Earl Olusola on November 23, 2017 at 3:30 am
I’m using a castor oil for quite a while, when I recognize that my hair starting to go down and eventually I almost got bald. My friend is the one who recommends me the castor oil and thank god it’s going to grow once more.
Reply
Sonia on November 28, 2017 at 8:35 pm
Hi Andrea is 50 and my hair to the front is very thin and falls out. I have tried almost everything but rogain. Right now I’m using Toppick. If I start rogain can I continue with the toppick as my scalp can be seen ? Many thanks
Reply
MANSI on December 4, 2017 at 7:27 pm
I’m 17 yrs I m suffering from baldness on top of my forehead and too much hair fall and no regrowth and density of hair become loss Tell me the fastest remedy for this?????
Reply
Althaf Ahmed on December 5, 2017 at 3:30 am
Hi Mansi,
There really is no “fastest remedy”. Hair regrowth takes time, whether you use a natural remedy such as Shapiro or a minoxidil-based solution such as Rogaine.
Reply
Earl Olusola on December 6, 2017 at 4:31 am
Thanks for this hair growth tips man. Going to try or use it. Keep on posting!
Reply
shreya on December 6, 2017 at 10:00 pm
i’m suffering from hairfall …i’ve used so many things but suggest me final product which i can use n that will help me to get out of this problem…
in how many days i will get the result after using it …
Reply
Bilal on January 24, 2018 at 8:31 am
My Hair very Loss & Demage Hair Front Both Sides Missing Please Please consult me
Reply
Racial on January 26, 2018 at 8:27 am
Hello, I just tried the inversion method today for the first time. My scalp, neck, and back are now nicely moisturized, but my hair looks like I haven’t washed it in a month. I quit shampoo awhile ago and am using dr. bronner’s castile soap on my hair instead, but all that did was distribute the oil more evenly. So I have two questions:
1. Is castile soap really better than a shampoo with sulfates? Am I on the right track?
2. What do you do to keep your hair from looking amazingly dirty during the week that you use the inversion method?
Thanks for all your hair posts!
Reply
Katherine Dilworth on March 24, 2018 at 7:54 am
Your post is really very helpful. I am suffering from severe hair loss after my pregnancy. Thanks that you provided the remedies in such a detail that is very helpful to me. Also thanks for mentioning the products pros and cons that will help to decide which is better for my hair. Keep sharing.
Reply
Omega on June 7, 2018 at 5:08 am
Hi, I’m Omega and I’m suffering from severe hair loss after a dermatitis.Hv tried all I can to replace loss hair but nothing seem to work though I haven’t tried the hair products prescribed above.Which product is recommended for my dermatitis hair loss condition.
Reply
Sweta on June 7, 2018 at 10:36 am
Hi I m 22 years old and my hair very loss and damage hair front both sides missing please please help me
Reply
Jessica on July 10, 2018 at 7:11 am
Shampooing hair is essential to remove all the dirt, grime, and excessive oil. But if you are using strong shampoos with high levels of chemicals and cleaning agents, then they wash away hair protective moisturizers along with them.
A too strong shampoo can even affect the hair growth level as they damage the internal cortex. So, make sure you use a mild shampoo and don’t overdo it.
Reply
Lucky on August 25, 2018 at 6:30 am
I had hair problems issues like dandruff, hair fall and lots more. Frankly speaking tried many allophathic hair products but i was not satisfied with the results of that products… Then someone suggested me ayurvedic product then for trial i bought 3 months package and i started getting results and i complete my course as suggested by Dr. Vipul. Now i am satisfied with my hair and thanks to arogyam hair care kit… Thanks once again.
Reply
Maria Vincent on November 7, 2018 at 7:12 am
Thanks for the sharing,
great read, informative and helpful. I really appreciate it. I’m 26 and I’m facing a severe hair loss problem. My hair is getting thinner and will seem like bald sooner. I have dandruff on my scalp and also itchy. Please suggest me some quick solutions.
Reply
Shawn Maloney on December 4, 2018 at 5:38 am
I’m 41 and have been fighting my hair loss for several years now. I started with rogaine, used it for a year and saw very minimal results. I discontinued using rogaine and then moved to using supplements (saw palmetto, biotin, zinc, iron, magnesium, b12, b complex) as well as using a laser comb for twenty minutes every other day. I saw noticeable but not significant results over the course of about a year. I then began using finasteride while continuing supplements and saw better results, but still looked a bit thin. Adter about a year I developed some minor side affects from the pill (0.5mg/day). I am now 3 months off of finasteride and my hair has drastically began to think again. I have started using Fo-Ti (Ho Sho Wu) in addition to my supplements. I have a very well rounded and healthy diet, exercise daily and avoid shampoos with sulfates and parabens. I dont use product in my hair either. I feel I have tried everything and am feeling hopeless. I dont have dandruff but have a dry itchy scalp usually. I also get pilar cysts (is that related in any way?) I hear of so many people getting better results doing less, or having done what I already have. Do I have any other options? Thank you.
Reply
Aman on December 24, 2018 at 4:25 pm
Hi! I am 21year old boy. I noticed my hairfall from last two years, i tried lots of product like sesa oil,homyopethic shampoo and oil and many more, but no result get! Sir/mam,please suggest me right path
Reply
Shahdab on January 15, 2019 at 5:53 am
thank you, I liked how your blog briefly explained all tips about hair fall, for knowing more relevant information
Reply
Home Remedies on February 19, 2019 at 5:20 am
Wonderful Article .. I noticed my hairfall from last a year, i tried lots of product but no result get … Thank you !!!!
Reply
Hairtreatment on April 16, 2019 at 6:12 am
Thanks for sharing information regarding hair loss causes. This article is really informative.
Reply
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Comment
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Disclaimer
Disclaimer: The information contained within this site is not intended as a substitute for professional medical advice. If you have, expect to have, or suspect you may have any medical condition, you are urged to consult with a health care provider. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any diseases or medical conditions. Results are based on Hairlossable.com Ranking System and do not necessarily reflect typical results from the use of these products. Please visit product websites for more information.
FTC Disclosure: We represent a professional research and review team, and on our page you may find affiliate links for which we could be compensated for by clicking on them. https://hairlossable.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.
All logos and names are respective to each company and brand, all registered trademarks and protected images are used under the terms of 'fair use'. Please reach out, we're human too.
Blog
Contact Me
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
TOS
Site Map