Ankle Injuries|Dislocation|impingement|Sprain|fracture|peroneal tendon | Page 2
Conditions
Allergy
Autoimmune Disorder
Blood / Hematology
Cancer
Cardiovascular System
Childhood Illnesses
Ear / Eye
Endocrinal System
Face, Mouth & Throat
Gastrointestinal System
Genetic Disorders
Genitourinary System
Infectious Diseases
Metabolic System
Musculoskeletal System
Nervous System
Psychiatric Disorders
Skin Problems
Women's Health Guide
All Topics
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
Hip Injuries
Knee Injuries
Pelvic, Groin & Buttock Pain
Wrist Injuries
All Topics
Personal Injury
Auto Accident
Work Accident
Gunshot Wound
Disability
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Q & A
Erectile Dysfunction: Does Opioid Cause ED
Do I have Fibromyalgia?
Splitting Headache: Is It a Migraine?
Did I have a stroke?
Libido: Opioid Induced Female Sexual Dysfunction
All Topics
Articles
Travel & Health
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
Dietary Do’s & Don’ts for Migraine Sufferers
Home Remedies for Arthritis
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
Understanding Joint Pain and Tips to Get Relief Using Home Remedies
All Topics
Treatments
Opioids
Antidepressant Analgesics
Interventional Treatment
Local Applications
Antiepileptics Analgesics
Medications
Tests and Procedures
Allergy Meds
Alternative Therapy
Chakra and Aura
Home Remedies
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness and Exercise
Yoga
Tabata
Pilates
Manual Therapy
Chiropractic Treatment
Spa Therapy
Physical Therapy
Massage Therapy
All Topics
News
Navigation Menu
Menu
Global Notification
Global Search
Subscribe
Global Search
Home
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
Ankle Injuries All Topics
Ankle Injuries A to Z
Sports Injuries News
Syndesmotic Sprain or Syndesmotic Ankle Sprain
Syndesmotic sprain or syndesmotic ankle sprain (SAS) is a more serious injury than the lateral ankle sprain and can be difficult to treat. Know the causes, symptoms, signs, treatment, recovery period and exercises for Syndesmotic sprain or syndesmotic ankle sprain.
View Full Article ...
What Are The Benefits Of Ankle Brace?
Ankle braces can be used both as a preventive measure as well as when having an injury to the ankle. Benefits of ankle brace are that it provides support to the weak ankle, it helps calm pain, swelling, and helps avoid future injuries.
View Full Article ...
What is Rolled Ankle?
Rolled Ankle or Twisted Ankle can happen to anyone and can cause extreme foot pain. Know the classification of sprain, what to do for rolled ankle, its treatment, recovery, rehab etc.
View Full Article ...
Ankle Joint Ligament Injury
Ankle joint ligament injury can be a bruise, laceration which is superficial or deep and may be associated with superficial tear, partial tear or complete tear of the ankle joint ligament (calcaneofibular ligament). Know the causes, signs, symptoms, treatment, recovery period and exercises for ankle joint ligament injury.
View Full Article ...
Peroneal Tendonitis or Peroneal Tendinitis
Repetition or excessive force causes damage to the peroneal tendons leading to degeneration and inflammation of the peroneal tendon is called peroneal tendonitis or peroneal tendinitis. Know the causes, symptoms, treatment, and recovery period of peroneal tendonitis or peroneal tendinitis.
View Full Article ...
Insertional Achilles Tendonitis
Insertional Achilles Tendonitis is a condition which involves gradual degradation of the Achilles tendon at its meeting point of the calcaneus or heel bone present in the foot. Know the causes, symptoms, treatment- conservative, PT.
View Full Article ...
Sinus Tarsi Syndrome
Sinus Tarsi Syndrome (STS): Individuals who have had a history of inversion ankle sprain are more prone to injure the sinus tarsi. Know the causes, symptoms, treatment- NSAIDs, electro therapy.
View Full Article ...
Footballer's Ankle
Footballer's Ankle cause can be an injury where the ankle has been overstretched or overflexed. Know the Symptoms, Causes, Treatment of Footballer's ankle.
View Full Article ...
Retrocalcaneal Bursitis or Achilles Tendon Bursitis
Retrocalcaneal Bursitis is also known as Achilles Tendon Bursitis. It is advisable to get the problem diagnosed soon followed by early treatment in order to recover from Retrocalcaneal bursitis or achilles tendon bursitis soon. Know the causes, symptoms, treatment, exercises and recovery period of bursitis of the Achilles tendon.
View Full Article ...
Peroneal Tendon Subluxation or Dislocation
Patient suffering from peroneal tendon subluxation or dislocation should enroll in a rehab program. Surgery is required if the damage is severe to repair the tissue that keeps the tendon in place. Strengthening and balance exercises should be done to restore normal function of the ankle after the surgery for peroneal tendon subluxation or dislocation.
View Full Article ...
Dislocated Ankle or Ankle Dislocation
Dislocated ankle or ankle dislocation is rare and when it occurs, it is almost associated with a fracture. It is a serious injury if associated with fracture of tibia or talus bone. Know causes, symptoms, treatment, recovery.
View Full Article ...
Achilles Tenosynovitis or Paratenonitis
Athletes commonly suffer from this condition and more than half of the achilles tendon injuries occur due to achilles tenosynovitis or Paratenonitis. Know its causes, symptoms, treatment, exercises
View Full Article ...
Tibial Osteochondral Fracture
What is tibial osteochondral fracture? Detailed explanation of causes, symptoms and treatment of tibial osteochondral fracture!
View Full Article ...
What is Haglund's Syndrome
Haglund's syndrome is a condition, which occurs when Retrocalcaneal Bursitis and Achilles Tendonitis occur at the same time. The combination of these two conditions results in Haglund's syndrome. Know the causes, symptoms, treatment, recovery period and exercises for Haglund’s Syndrome.
View Full Article ...
What is Ankle Impingement
Ankle impingement is a condition where there is bony growth at either the front or back of the ankle bone where it joins the shin bone. Know the symptoms of anterior ankle impingement and posterior ankle impingement; as well as the causes, treatment, recovery period and exercises for Ankle Impingement.
View Full Article ...
1
2
3
Rib Pain Images
Symptom Checker
Find A Physician
Health Topics
Health News
Videos
Slideshows
Recent Post
Understanding Lesions and Bone Pain In Multiple Myeloma
Benefits of Taking Statins to Help Treat High Cholesterol
5 Common Myths and Facts Surrounding Ankylosing Spondylitis
Articles
What Is Blue Waffle Disease & Is it Real?
Diet & Nutrition
Microplastics In Foods & How Do They Affect Your Health?
>> More
Most Popular
Disability
Does Sickle Cell Disease Qualify For Disability Benefits?
Allergies
Sun Allergy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Prognosis, Prevention, Recovery
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Medicare for Chiropractic Care: What Does it Cover & What It Doesn’t Cover|Medicare Advantage Plans
Travel & Health
Can You Fly With A Blood Clot & What are the Precautions to be Taken?
Home Remedies
Symptoms of Silent Reflux in Infant & its Natural Remedies
Symptom Checker
Get To Know What Possibly Could Be Causing Your Symptoms!
Men Women
Subscribe to Free ePainAssist Newsletters
I agree to the ePainAssist Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
We'll help you live each day to the healthiest
Email
Join
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram
Download Our Mobile Apps
Copyright © 2019 PainAssist Inc (ePainAssist) | All rights reserved.
Contact Us
Disclaimer
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Financial Disclosure Policy
Information Policy
Find Physician
Pain Blog
Images and Text Policy
Medical Quiz
Videos
Pain Discussion Board
Post A Question
Chiropractors
Pain Physicians
Orthopedic Surgeons
Neurological Surgeons
Neurologists
Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine Doctors
Physical Medicine and Rehabitation Specialists
Note: Information provided is not a substitute for physician, hospital or any form of medical care. Consult your medical care providers for medical advice, treatments and followup.