6 Prevention Steps
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Cookies policy | Easy Read | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] Reset
Championing optimum nutrition for the mind
Call us on 020 8332 9600
My account | Basket (0 Items)
Home
Nutrition solutions
Clinic
Smart kids
Alzheimer's prevention
Accreditation
Publications
Support us
Alzheimer's prevention > 6 Prevention Steps
Nutrition solutions
ADHD and hyperactivity
About ADHD/hyperactivity
Action plan to overcome ADHD/hyperactivity
Do you need help?
Hyper activity test
Autism
About autism
Action plan for managing autism
Do you need help?
Bipolar disorder
About bipolar disorder (manic depression)
Action plan for bipolar disorder
Do you need help?
Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease
About dementia/Alzheimer’s disease
Action plan for dementia & Alzheimer’s
Do you need help?
Cognitive Function Test
Support Our Campaign
Depression
About depression
Action plan for overcoming depression
Do you need help?
Depression Test
Food Intolerance Test
Dyslexia and dyspraxia
About dyslexia/dyspraxia
Action plan for managing dyslexia/dyspraxia
Do you need help?
Insomnia
About insomnia
Action plan for insomnia
Do you need help?
Parkinson's disease
About Parkinson's disease
Action plan for Parkinson's disease
Do you need help?
Schizophrenia and psychosis
About schizophrenia and psychosis
Action plan for managing schizophrenia
Do you need help?
Stress
About stress
Action plan for becoming more resilient to stress
Do you need help?
Brain Bio Centre
The Clinic
About the clinic
Clinic costs
The Complete Packages
Get in touch
Contact us
Book a consultation
Book a Skype consultation
Patient Information Forms
Consultations
Skype Consultations
Tests
Supplements
Meet the team
The Clinical Team
The Board
Our Experts
Scientific Advisory Board
How to find us
FAQs
Stress
Cognitive decline and neurological disorders
Depression and anxiety
Learning and behaviour
Psychotic disorders
Tune up your brain
Testimonials
In the media
Auction
AuctionProduct3
AuctionProduct7
AuctionProduct10
AuctionProduct11
AuctionProduct14
AuctionProduct17
AuctionProduct18
AuctionProduct21
AuctionProduct22
AuctionProduct23
AuctionProduct24
AuctionProduct25
AuctionProduct26
AuctionProduct27
AuctionProduct28
AuctionProduct29
AuctionProduct33
Alzheimer's prevention
About Alzheimer’s Prevention
Action on Alzheimer's
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Take the test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the test
Interpreting results
Lowering homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
Previous scores
6 Prevention Steps
Make a donation
Modifying Risk Factors
Homocysteine and B Vitamins
Methylation and homocysteine
Play Your Part
For business
Events
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Declarations of interest
Cognitive Function Test
Smart Kids
Is your childs diet healthy?
Child Survey
Child Survey on GMTV
Q and A on the child survey
How to build a healthy brain?
Where are the hidden sugars?
Smart shopping
Healthy recipes and ideas
Smart weaning
Supplements for smart kids
Children's food allergies
Schools Project
SAQ Training System
Cricket Green
Chineham Park
What children say
What the experts say
Research
Alzheimer's Prevention Project
Cognitive Function Test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the Test
Interpreting Results
Lowering Homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
10 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps
Declarations of interest
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Alzheimer’s Prevention Conference
Methylation and Homocysteine
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Information for Health Professionals
Alzheimer's - there is no cure. Prevention is the way.
Schizophrenia project
Evidence database
A review of the current evidence (2005) suggests that essential fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA may benefit a variety of mental health conditions.
ADHD teens have higher need for Omega-3 fats. Colter A L et al., Nutr J. 2008 Feb 14;7:8.
An omega-3 fish oil combined with phosphatidylserine improved impulsiveness in ADHD kids...
Essential fat levels lower in boys with ADHD compared to 'healthy' controls...
Essential fats reduce ADHD-related symptoms in children with specific learning difficulties...
Feeding the autistic brain - Multi-nutrients reduce symptoms and improve biological function...
Foods and additives are common causes of the attention deficit hyperactive disorder in children...
Gut disorders are more prevalent in children with developmental disorders...
Keep it simple - Healthy diet best for ADHD...
Magnesium supplementation improved ADHD symptoms...
Physical symptoms of fatty acid deficiency unreliable in ADHD...
Restricted diet linked to 78% reduction in ADHD...
Supplementation of fatty acids improved ADHD symptoms in children aged 7 to 12 years...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves juvenile delinquency among American schoolchildren...
A very low carbohydrate diet improves memory function for older adults at risk of Alzheimer's disease...
Dementia costs the UK £23 billion a year and is preventable...
Efficacy of a medical food in mild Alzheimer's disease...
Lower reported nutritional status is associated with increased risk to physical and mental health and well-being in School-aged Children...
Nutrients, cognitive function, and MRI measures of brain ageing.
Omega 3 helps ageing brain
Supplements of omega-3 and omega-6 improve reading, spelling and behaviour in children ages 5-12 years with Developmental Coordination Disorder.
Allergy to milk proteins could be linked to autism...
Consumption of fish and n-3 fatty acids and risk of incident Alzheimer disease...
DHA may slow progression of Alzheimer’s in a mouse model...
Dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids and weekly consumption of fish may reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Dietary intake of vitamin E associated with lower risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Fish oils stave off alzheimers...
Fruit and vegetable juice may protect against Alzheimer's...
Genetic link between vitamin D and Alzheimer's discovered...
Good diet staves off dementia and alzheimers...
Higher folate intake associated with lower risk of Alzheimer Disease in the elderly...
Homocysteine and dementia – a clear association...
Homocysteine effects on brain volumes mapped in 732 elderly individuals...
Medication prescribed to Alzheimer's patients may hasten their decline...
Mineral imbalances in Alzheimer's brains...
Sugar may speed up alzheimers...
Supplements of Vitamin E and Vitamin C reduce risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Targeting risk factors could cut Alzheimer’s by a quarter...
Vitamin E antioxidants to slow the progression of Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E slows progression of moderately severe Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E supplementation may lower mortality in Alzheimer's patients...
Elevated homocysteine found in women with eating disorders, independent of folic acid or B12 levels...
Supplementation with folic acid enhances effect of antidepressant medication...
Reduced risk of depression associated with mediterranean diet...
An autistic patient has abnormal red blood cell fatty acid composition compared to control subjects...
Autistic children benefit from a gluten and casein free diet...
Autistic children frequently suffer from digestive complaints and inflammation in the digestive system...
Autistic children show possible imbalance of fatty acids...
Behaviour deterioration seen in autistic children upon vitamin B6 withdrawal...
Damage to gut wall maybe a cause of autism...
Effect of gluten and casein free diets on food choice and nutrition in autism...
Food hypersensitivity linked to digestive disturbances in autistic children...
Gluten-free diet can improve behavioural symptoms of autistic children...
Immune reaction to both gliadin and brain proteins may explain an autoimmune basis for autism...
More than 1 in 100 children and adults have autism...
Opioid theory may explain food and gut-related symptoms of autism...
Opioid theory may explain role of diet and digestion in autism...
PCBs may contribute to Autism – rat study...
Review investigates links between immune system activity and autism...
Review of 12 studies suggest positive effect of vitamin therapy in autism...
Review of trials of gluten/casein elimination diets in children with autism...
Studies show a gluten and/or casein free diet reduces autistic behaviour...
Study finds no significant improvement in autistic children’s clinical symptoms whilst on a gluten-free and casein-free diet...
Vitamin A may help reverse a genetic predisposition to autism...
Vitamin B6 and magnesium improve childhood autism in combination...
Lowering homocysteine improved symptoms in chronic schizophrenia patients with elevated homocysteine...
Supplementation with essential nutrients may benefit symptoms of depression in elderly patients...
Elevated homocysteine associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly...
High folate intake alongside low B-12 status may worsen risk for dementia...
Vitamin B12 deficiency may affect the brain through multiple mechanisms...
Association with vitamin D levels and depressive symptoms.
Could early vitamin C deficiency impair development?
Downside of acid drug...
Lack of B vitamins linked to PMS...
Lower blood levels of vitamin C in people with schizophrenia...
U.S. Study confirms homocysteine linked to brain shrinkage...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves intelligence in some American schoolchildren...
Vitamin D deficiency in pregnancy may have implications for mental health of children – rat study...
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood and worse cognitive performance in older adults...
Vitamin D deficiency linked to Parkinson's...
Vitamin D linked with depression in elderly...
Vitamins and minerals improve learning and memory in 'normal' school children...
Diet has positive impact on anti-social, violent and criminal behaviour – a review...
Folic acid may boost baby's behaviour...
Iron, zinc, and lead are associated with behaviour and cognition in preschool children...
Sweets for kida means violent adults. Moore et al. (2009) 195: 366-367
Omega 3 fish oil good for depression and bipolar...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA improves depression in people with bipolar alongside their existing medication...
Beta carotene helps brain function and memory...
Breast feeding is best food for your child's brain...
Depressed brain deficient in Omega-3 fatty acid DHA...
Dietary choline, cognitive performance and brain volume...
Fish consumption associated with better brain volume and memory...
Fish oil supplementation supports mood and brain function in the elderly...
Homocysteine associated with brain atrophy in the healthy elderly...
Omega 3 good for cognitive performance in older adults...
Omega-3 in pregnancy boosts baby's brain development...
Use it or lose it - Cognitive activity throughout life supports a healthy brain...
Fish-eating mothers’ milk highest in DHA...
Chromium improves atypical depression...
Update on chromium for depression.
Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study, Nurk E et al...
Elderly people with the highest blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids had the least decline in verbal fluency...
Excess calcium speeds cognitive decline in the elderly...
Folic acid improves concentration and cognitive performance in healthy elderly...
Folic acid improves memory and mental agility in over-50s. ...
Higher intakes of fish oil from diet associated with slower rates of cognitive decline in elderly men...
Does raised homocysteine cause dementia?
Acne treatment could cause depression...
Beneficial gut bacteria reduce anxiety and depression in mice...
Breakfast, Academic Performance and Mental Distress...
Depression linked to processed food...
Fish oil boosts mood in depressed seniors...
Folic acid improves recovery in major depression and schizophrenia...
Low Iron may contribute to depression in women who are not anaemic...
More folate may mean less depression in men. Daniells 2010
Multivitamin and mineral supplement improves mood in hospitalised elderly...
Omega-3 helps depressed children, A Controlled, Double-Blind Pilot Study...
Review of research suggests folate may be effective for depression...
Sleep deprivation may cause depression in adolescents...
Tryptophan supplementation induces a positive bias in processing of emotional material...
Cochrane Review of essential fatty acids for schizophrenia inconclusive but recommends more research needed...
Children with healthier diets do better in school...
Good food boosts school performance...
Poor diet associated with worse mental health in teens...
Schizophrenia symptoms may be helped by a gluten free, low carb diet...
Drug treatment for Schizophrenics may induce diabetes...
Fish oil may reduce psychotic disorders in high risk individuals...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA helps schizophrenia symptoms...
Dietary sources of fat associated with schizophrenia...
Low essential fats worse for Schizophrenia symptoms...
Benefits may outweigh risks for seafood consumption in pregnancy...
Certain combinations of food additives are linked to hyperactivtiy in young children...
Food additives and hyperactivity in children...
Good food in infancy boosts earning power ...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Supplement combination helps the elderly get a good night’s sleep...
Omega 3 concentrations relationship to physical and mental well being...
Omega-3 supplementation reduces anxiety and inflammation in healthy young adults...
Efficacy and cost of micronutrient treatment of childhood psychosis
Publications and events
Current events
Food for the Brain Alzheimer's Conference 2011
More information of the speakers
Food for the Brain Conference 2008
Nutritional Strategies for Breaking Addiction - Speakers
FfB Mental Health Masterclass with Bill Walsh PHD from the Pfeiffer Treatment Centre
The Gut Brain Link in Autism, Depression and Mental Health
E-news
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
October 2012
September 2012
July 2012
June 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Further support
Reports
Nutritional interventions for the adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia: a brief review
The Links Between Diet and Behaviour
Food for the brain child survey report
Nutrients and Alzheimer's Disease Prevention: 2011 Review
Depression - the nutrition connection
Alzheimer's and Dementia - the nutrition connection
Oxidative Stress in Autism
Double blind placebo-controlled study of zinc sulfate in the treatment of ADHD
Effect of consumpton of soft drinks on hyperactivity and behaviour
Effect of Omega 3 supplementation on visual and cognitive development in childhood
Glucose tolerance predicts performance on tests of memory and cognition
Inositol deficiency deit and lithium effects
LC PFAs in Childhood Development and Psychiatric Disorders
Major Depressive Disorder, NEJM, 2008
O-3 Treatment of Childhood Depression - double blind controlled pilot study
Omega 3 for recurrent Unipolar Depressive Disorder
Raising IQ through vitamin and mineral supplementation
Supplementation with PFAs and Micronutrients on learning & behaviour in ADHD
The NEMO Study Group, 2007
Unhealthful Eating Patterns and overall school performance in Children
Zinc in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Resources
Accreditation in catering
Support us
Support us by donating
Support us by fundraising
Partners
About us
Who we are
Board of Trustees
Scientific Advisory Board
Current vacancies
Donate
Friends of Food for the Brain
Register
Donate today
Donate through legacy
Donate by volunteering
Why donate?
Newsletter Signup
Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Easy Read
Cookies policy
My Profile
Payment
3D Landing
3D Validate
Payment Result
Checkout Step 2
Checkout
Advertising Policy
download
sitemap.xml
adhdtest
Advertising
Nairns ad
Solgar
Cherry Active
York Test
Food Matters Live
Conference 2011 CD
preventionsteps
Friends
rsvp
Alzheimers' Prevention PLAN B
Newsletter update
appgdementia
alzriskfactors
igedstatement
thenutritionconnection
actiononalzheimers
enews
Admin Position
Nutrition for Children's Learning and Development
Nutrition for Depression
Overcoming stress and anxiety – how to stay calm, stop the energy drain and build resilience
accreditation-redirect
seminar-site redirect (1)
Free newsletter
Cognitive function test
Smart Kids test
We can help you
Twitter
FOOD FOR THE BRAIN
www.foodforthebrain.org
Follow
Go to full profile →
Make a donation
A helping hand for the prevention of Alzheimer's
Take the test
This online screening tool helps identify the early signs of cognitive impairment
The Cognitive Function Test is a free online screening test that checks four key types of cognitive ability that decline in dementia.
If your score isn’t great you’ll get a letter to take to your GP recommending homocysteine testing. If your homocysteine level is above 10mcmol/l you’ll be advised to supplement with B vitamins. Homocysteine testing can be carried out by your doctor. You can also do it privately through many laboratories, or with a home test kit from www.yorktest.com.
Become a Friend of Food for the Brain and get £50 off testing
You can also start to follow our '6 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps' which are outlined below:
The 6 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps
Eating one serving of oily fish a week is associated with halving the risk of Alzheimer’s.[1] Supplements of one kind of omega 3 fish oil, called DHA, have been shown to enhance memory in adults[2] who don’t eat fish, and to prevent memory loss in those in the early stages of memory decline.[3] But it’s not just oily fish. The more fish you eat, the better your memory test performance. Fish is also an excellent source of vitamins B12[4][5], D and choline, all essential for the brain. Chia and flax seeds are also an excellent source of omega 3. Back to 6 steps
The more fruit and vegetables you eat the lower is your risk of cognitive decline[6] with vegetables being particularly protective.[7] The best kinds of vegetables are carrots, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, spinach and mushrooms. The best fruits are berries, especially blueberries and strawberries.[8] Flavonoids and polyphenols, found not only in fruit and vegetables, but also in tea, red wine and dark chocolate, are associated with preserving memory[9]and a number of mechanisms exist to explain their positive actions on cognitive performance.[27] The most protective effect is found eating six servings (500g) a day of fruit and vegetables.[7]
Supplementing both vitamin C (1g) and vitamin E combined is associated with halving the risk of Alzheimer’s disease.[10] Back to 6 steps
Keeping your blood sugar level down, which also means you make less insulin, preserves your memory.[11] That means avoiding sugar as much as possible and eating slow-releasing ‘whole’ carbohydrate foods such as wholegrain bread or pasta and oat cakes. Eating white bread is associated with a poorer cognitive test performance, whereas high fibre bread is associated with better performance.[7] Eating carbohydrate foods with protein, for example brown rice with fish, or porridge oats with seeds, further reduces the glycemic load (GL) of a meal. Best fruits in this respect are berries, cherries and plums while grapes, raisins and bananas are high GL. These kinds of foods are consistent with a Mediterranean diet which has also been shown to reduce risk.[12] Eat your fruit, don’t drink it. Fruit juice has a lot of sugar in it. Back to 6 steps
Having a higher intake and blood level of vitamin B12 and folic acid is associated with a quarter of the risk of developing Alzheimer’s.[13] Vitamin B6, B12 and folic acid, especially in combination, lower blood levels of homocysteine, which is a key predictor of risk. [14]Lowering your homocysteine, if above 10mcmol/l, by supplementing high dose B6 (20mg), folic acid (800mcg) and B12 (500mcg) has been shown to greatly reduce the rate of brain shrinkage[15] and memory loss[16] in those at risk of Alzheimer’s. That is why it is VITAL to check your homocysteine level and, if above 10, speak with your doctor about supplementing high doses of B vitamins. Otherwise, supplement a daily multivitamin or B complex. B12 absorption can greatly worsen with age, and is inhibited by the diabetes drug metformin[17], and antacid ‘proton-pump inhibitor’ (PPI) medication[18]. If you are taking these be sure your GP checks your homocysteine level. Back to 6 steps
While there is inconsistent evidence linking coffee with more or less risk, drinking lots of coffee both raises homocysteine levels[19] and promotes the excretion of protective B vitamins.[20] For example, two cups of coffee raises homocysteine by 11% in 4 hours.[21]
Green tea on the other hand, is associated with a lower risk of cognitive impairment. [22]Ordinary tea drinking is also associated with better cognition.[23] Our advice is to limit coffee to one a day and drink tea, ideally green, instead. Back to 6 steps
Keeping fit,[24] learning new things to stimulate your mind and staying in touch with friends and family all help to reduce your risk. If you don’t use it you lose it.
There may also be a benefit in exercises that require more mind-body coordination, such as t’ai chi[25] or yoga, and exercising outdoors – we make vitamin D in the presence of sunlight.
These activities also help to reduce stress, which is another prevention step in the right direction, as is keeping your blood pressure down.[26] Back to 6 steps
Download this page as a pdf
Food for the Brain seeks to increase funding for research on prevention of Alzheimer's disease, with the aim of vastly reducing the numbers of people having to endure this disease. This statement, signed by over 100 scientists from 136 countries, calls upon the governments of the G8 countries to make prevention of dementia one of their major health aims; it was written by the Head of Food for the Brain's Scientific Advisory Board, Professor David Smith, and published in the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease in December, 2013. Dementia (Including Alzheimer’s Disease) can be Prevented: Statement Supported by International Experts.
References
M. Morris et al, Archives of Neurology 2003;volume 60: pages 940-946
W Stonehouse et al., ‘DHA supplementation improved both memory and reaction time in healthy young adults: a randomized controlled trial.’ Am J Clin Nutr. 2013 May;97(5):1134-43;also Yurko-Mauro K et al. (2015) 'Docosahexaenoic Acid and Adult Memory: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis'. PLoS One, doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120391
Yurko-Mauro K, et al., ‘Beneficial effects of docosahexaenoic acid on cognition in age-related cognitive decline.’ Alzheimers Dement. 2010 Nov;6(6):456-64
Nurk E, Drevon CA, Refsum H, Solvoll K, Vollset SE, Nygard O, et al. Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study. Am J Clin Nutr 2007; 86: 1470-8
Vogiatzoglou A. et al., ‘Dietary sources of vitamin B-12 and their association with plasma vitamin B-12 concentrations in the general population: the Hordaland Homocysteine Study.’ Am J Clin Nutr. 2009 Apr;89(4):1078-87; also Nurk E et al., ‘Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study.’ Am J Clin Nutr. 2007 Nov;86(5):1470-8
Nurk E et al., ‘Cognitive performance among the elderly in relation to the intake of plant foods. The Hordaland Health Study’ British Journal of Nutrition (2010), 104, 1190–1201
M. Loef, H. WaLac H Fruit, vegetables and prevention of cognitive decline or dementia: a systematic review of cohort studies’ The Journal of Nutrition, Health & Aging,Volume 16, Number 7, 2012 626-630
Devore Annals of Neurology April 12 Devore EE, Kang JH, Breteler MM, Grodstein F. Dietary intakes of berries and flavonoids in relation to cognitive decline. Annals of neurology 2012; 72: 135-43
Nurk E, Refsum H, Drevon CA, et al. (2009) Intake of flavonoid rich wine, tea, and chocolate by elderly men and women is associated with better cognitive test performance. J Nutr 139, 120–127
Zandi PP et al, Arch Neurol. 2004 Zandi PP, Anthony JC, Khachaturian AS, Stone SV, Gustafson D, Tschanz JT, et al. Reduced risk of Alzheimer disease in users of antioxidant vitamin supplements: the Cache County Study. Arch Neurol 2004; 61: 82-8
Luchsinger JA et al., Neurology 2004; Abbatecola AM. et al., J Am Geriatr Soc, 2004; Xu WL et al.,Neurology, 63:1181–6 (2004); Hassing LB. et al.,J Int Neuropsychol Soc, 2004; Yaffe K. et al.,Neurology, 2004; Arvanitakis Z. et al., Arch Neurol, 2004; Yaffe K. et al.,J Nutr Health Aging, 2006; Roberts R et al., Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord, 2010; Rawlings et al., Diabetes in Midlife and Cognitive Change Over 20 Years: A Cohort Study, Annals of Internal Medicine, 2014
Martinez-Lapiscina EH, Clavero P, Toledo E, Estruch R, Salas-Salvado J, San Julian B, et al. Mediterranean diet improves cognition: the PREDIMED-NAVARRA randomised trial. Journal of neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry 2013
Clarke R et al., Archives of Neurology, 1998
Wald DS, Kasturiratne A, Simmonds M. Serum homocysteine and dementia: Meta-analysis of eight cohort studies including 8669 participants. Alzheimers Dement 2011; 7: 412-7
AD.Smith et al, PLoS ONE,, September 2010 | Volume 5 | Issue 9 | e12244
De Jager, C. et al., ‘Cognitive and clinical outcomes of homocysteine lowering B vitamin treatment in mild cognitive impairment: a randomized controlled trial’, Int J Geriatr Psychiatry (2011) Jul 21. doi: 10.1002/gps.2758
Hermann L. S. et al. ‘Vitamin B12 Status of Patients Treated With Metformin: A Cross-Sectional Cohort Study’ Br J Diabetes Vasc Dis. 2004; 4 (6): 401-406
Ito T, Jensen RT. ‘Association of long-term proton pump inhibitor therapy with bone fractures and effects on absorption of calcium, vitamin B12, iron, and magnesium.’ Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2010 Dec;12(6):448-57
Grubben M J et al., American Journal of Clin. Nutrition, Vol. 71, No. 2, 480-484, Feb 2000
Ulvik A et al., ‘Coffee consumption and circulating B-vitamins in healthy middle-aged men and women.’ Clin Chem. 2008 Sep;54(9):1489-96
Verhoef P et al., American Journal of Clin. Nutrition, vol. 76, No. 6 (2002), pp. 1244-1248
Kuriyama S, Hozawa A, Ohmori K, Shimazu T, Matsui T, Ebihara S, et al. Green tea consumption and cognitive function: a cross-sectional study from the Tsurugaya Project 1. Am J Clin Nutr 2006; 83: 355-61
See reference 9 above. Nurk et al.
Lautenschlager NT, Cox KL, Flicker L, Foster JK, van Bockxmeer FM, Xiao J, et al. Effect of physical activity on cognitive function in older adults at risk for Alzheimer disease: a randomized trial. Jama 2008; 300: 1027-37
Lam LC et al ‘A 1-year randomized controlled trial comparing mind body exercise (Tai Chi) with stretching and toning exercise on cognitive function in older Chinese adults at risk of cognitive decline.’ J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2012 Jul;13(6):568.e15-20
Peila R, White LR, Masaki K, Petrovitch H, Launer LJ. Reducing the risk of dementia. Efficacy of long-term treatment of hypertension. Stroke 2006; 37: 1165-70, Launer LJ, Hughes T, Yu B, Masaki K, Petrovitch H, Ross GW, et al. Lowering midlife levels of systolic blood pressure as a public health strategy to reduce late-life dementia: perspective from the Honolulu Heart Program/Honolulu Asia Aging Study. Hypertension 2010; 55: 1352-9
Williams RJ, Spencer JP. ‘Flavonoids, cognition, and dementia: actions, mechanisms, and potential therapeutic utility for Alzheimer disease.’ Free Radic Biol Med. 2012 Jan 1;52(1):35-45
Share
Encourage friends and family to take the Cognitive Function Test.
Contact us
Talk to us about other ways you can get involved with Plan B.
Back to top
Join us...
Contact Us
Make an appointment
Vacancies
About us
Board of Trustees
Our mission
Cookies Policy
Scientific Advisory Board
Advertising Policy
About this site
Site Map
Policies
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
is a not for profit educational charity
© 2012 Food for the Brain. All Rights Reserved
Food for the Brain is a registered charity (No: 1116438) and is limited by guarantee (Company Number 5885305)