Athlete's Foot - Toe-Tal Foot and Ankle Care
Skip to content
Toe-Tal Foot and Ankle Care
6900 Denton Hwy
Suite 111
Watauga, TX 76148
(817) 656-0303
Schedule Appointment
Browse
Home
About Us
Tour the Office
About The Practice
Dr. Daniel Cairns
Dr. Shannon Cairns
Patient Resources
Patient Resources
Patient’s Bill of Rights
Patient Education
FAQs
Videos
Patient Education Library
Stay in Touch
Blog
Social Media
FAQs
Videos
Newsletter
Contact Us
Athlete’s Foot
Patient Education Library
Athlete’s foot is a common foot fungus that spreads easily in public places such as indoor and outdoor swimming pools, locker rooms, and showers, as these are moist conditions where people usually walk barefoot. The symptoms of athlete’s foot are itchy, burning feet with scaling and redness between the toes. Eventually, the inflammation can become painful, and blisters may develop. The fungus can also develop along the soles, arches, and sides of the feet. The condition can be chronic.
There are many different types of fungi that cause athlete’s foot, so the type of medicine used to successfully treat athlete’s foot depends on properly identifying the fungus responsible for the outbreak. A doctor should be seen to properly diagnose athlete’s foot. There are several over-the-counter creams, sprays, and powders available to treat athlete’s foot. Medications of any kind should not be used without first consulting a healthcare professional or doctor. A doctor can also prescribe topical or oral medications to treat severe cases.
Fungal infections such as athlete’s foot can be prevented by the following suggestions:
Wash and dry feet thoroughly, taking extra care to dry between the toes.
Use powder to keep the feet dry.
Keep socks and footwear clean and dry; socks can be changed several times daily.
Wear footwear made of breathable materials that allow air to circulate around the feet; constricting footwear, stockings, and socks can trap moisture and perspiration on the feet.
Never share socks or footwear.
Do not walk barefoot in public areas such as showers, pools, and locker rooms; instead, wear plastic flip-flops, slides, or shower shoes.
Post navigation
General Information About Foot and Ankle Fitness
Common Fungal Problems
Monday 8:30am - 5:00pm
Tuesday 8:30am - 5:00pm
Wednesday 8:30am - 5:00pm
Thursday 8:30am - 5:00pm
Friday 8:30am - 3:00pm
Saturday - Closed -
Sunday - Closed -
Access Patient Portal
Home
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Email
Team Hedgehog