Clear your nasal obstruction through eucalyptus oil and garlic
Sign in Join
Home
About
Remedies
Diseases
Food benefits
Essential Oil
Guest Posts
Contact Us
Sign in
Welcome!Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password?
Privacy Policy
Sign up
Welcome!Register for an account
your email
your username
A password will be e-mailed to you.
Privacy Policy
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
Search
Home remedies and natural treatments Collection of best home remedies and natural treatments
Home
About
Remedies
Diseases
Food benefits
Essential Oil
Guest Posts
Contact Us
Home Home Remedies Clear your nasal obstruction through eucalyptus oil and garlic
Clear your nasal obstruction through eucalyptus oil and garlic
By
Vijila
-
September 14, 2017
1
329
Nasal obstruction is also known as nasal congestion, stuffy nose or blocked nose. When the swelling in your nasal cavity leads to buildup of mucus, then this leads to nasal obstruction. This is a reason why you breathe difficult. Allergic reactions, flu and colds are problems which are associated with the nasal obstruction. When you have nasal congestion that lasts longer than one week, then this can be due excessive tobacco smoke, thyroid disorders, stress, pregnancy, occupational asthma, hay fever, hormonal changes in the body, dry air and acute sinusitis. Polyps or tumor are also causes for nasal obstruction but they are less in common. A minor headache, a hoarse voice, watery eyes, swollen nasal tissues, mucus buildup and sinus pain are symptoms of nasal congestion. Nasal congestion can be accompanied by a runny nose or a nasal discharge but it may not be. This is a very annoying condition. In many cases our sleep is disturbed. It is very important to treat this condition as soon as possible because it can lead to other problems such as restless sleep, ear infections and so on.
Home remedies for nasal obstruction
Garlic: Garlic can help you to reduce the nasal obstruction. This vegetable has antifungal, antibacterial and antiviral properties which can help you to fight the respiratory infection which is causing nasal obstruction. It can prevent infection and also helps control overproduction of mucus. It can promote a quick recovery because this home remedy is a natural immune booster. In one cup of water you should boil two to three garlic cloves. You should also mix in ½ teaspoon of turmeric powder. You should drink this home remedy two times per day until the congestion clears. Also when you eat fresh garlic cloves, then this can help you to get a relief from the discomfort and stuffiness. Also you can take garlic supplements on a regular basis because this can help you to prevent or reduce the frequency of nasal congestion. You should always talk with your doctor before you start using some kind of supplement.
Spicy tomato tea: This is a very effective home remedy for getting relief from the nasal congestion because it can help improve the flow of mucus through the nasal passages. You should boil one cup of tomato juice along with a pinch of sea salt, ½ teaspoon of hot sauce (if you do not have any hot sauce at your home, then you can use ¼ teaspoon of cayenne pepper), two to three teaspoons of freshly squeezed lemon juice and two chopped garlic cloves. You should drink this tea slowly while it is hot. Drink it two times per day in a period of few days.
Cayenne pepper: This is a very effective nasal obstruction home remedy for relieving blocked sinuses and nasal congestion. Cayenne pepper has capsaicin which is working as a natural decongestant to provide you a relief from the inflammation in your nasal passages. Also this home remedy has fiery effect which induces a runny nose to get rid of the allergens and mucus in the sinuses. This will give you a relief from the blocked nose. You should add ½ teaspoon of cayenne powder to one tablespoon of raw honey and you should eat this home remedy a few times per day. Also you can dip the tip of a cotton swab into cayenne pepper. You should carefully insert the cotton swab into your nose to clear the sinuses and induce sneezing. In the first moments there will be a burning sensation but this feeling will pass quickly and it will help you to get a relief from pain and sinus pressure. You should do this natural treatment two or three times per day.
natural treatments for nasal obstruction
Steam inhalation: This is a very popular nasal obstruction home remedy for getting an instant relief from the nasal obstruction. This home remedy works as a natural expectorant to clear the congestion and it lubricates your irritated respiratory tract. You should use any of the mentioned home remedies two to four times per day. You should keep your head about an arm’s length away from the water and a towel over your head because in this way you will trap the steam. To boiling water you should add a few drops of peppermint or eucalyptus oil and you should inhale the steam for ten minutes. In boiling water you should add one tablespoon of crushed carom seeds. You should inhale this steam for ten minutes. Also when you inhale the steam from a hot bath or a humidifier, then this can help you to decrease the nasal congestion. The steam inhalation is not recommended for children below 12 years of age because there is a risk of scalding. Also this natural treatment is not recommended for pregnant women and people who suffer from central nervous disorders, heart condition and high blood pressure.
Apple cider vinegar: This is one of the best home remedies which can help you to clear your stuffy nose very quickly. This home remedy works as a natural decongestant which can help break up congested mucous and it will give you a relief from stuffy and blocked nose. Apple cider vinegar has potassium which can help dry a runny nose. Also it is rich in several nutrients and this is good home remedy for your immunity and overall health. In one cup of warm water you should mix one tablespoon of raw honey and two tablespoons of raw and unfiltered apple cider vinegar. You should drink this home remedy two or three times per day in a period of a few days. Also you can pour equal amounts of raw, unfiltered apple cider vinegar and water in a pan. You should bring this pan to boil and then you should inhale the steam. You should close your eyes because if they are open they will sting your eyes. You should do this natural treatment two or three times per day or as long as you need.
Ginger: Ginger is easy and effective nasal obstruction home remedy for a blocked nose. It is rich in antioxidants which help inhibit the secretion of mucus. Also it helps maintain normal nasal ciliary motility which is an important element of the sinus health. You should drink two to three cups of ginger tea every day. To make the ginger tea, you should boil two cups of water over low heat and you should add one tablespoon of fresh ginger slices in it. You should let it simmer for five to ten minutes. You should strain this home remedy. Then, you should mix in some fresh raw honey and lemon juice and then you should drink it. Also you can chew small pieces of raw ginger sprinkled with salt several times per day because this can help you to treat blocked nose and nasty cough. Also you can take ginger in the form of lozenges which are available in the markets around the world.
Eucalyptus oil: People who suffer from nasal obstruction can use eucalyptus oil as their natural treatment because it posses anti – inflammatory and decongestant properties. It can clear your airways of mucus and also it works as a natural cough suppressant. You should add three to five drops of eucalyptus oil to boiling water in a large pot. You should use a towel to cover your head and you should slowly inhale the steam through your nose for no more than two minutes at a time. You should keep your eyes closed. You should do this natural treatment two times per day. Also you can put one to two drops of eucalyptus oil in a fresh handkerchief and you should inhale the aroma a few times per day. Also you can put a few drops of eucalyptus essential oil on your pillow so you can inhale it even when you are in your deep sleep. If you want to have an aromatherapy bath, then you should add a few drops of eucalyptus essential oil to your bathwater and you should enjoy in your bath for fifteen minutes once per day.
Turmeric: This natural cure has antibacterial, anti – inflammatory and antioxidant properties which is making it one of the best home remedies for nasal congestion. It has curcumin which can help you to reduce the swelling and inflammation in your nasal passages. This will give you a quick relief from the symptoms of nasal obstruction. Also this will boost your immune system. You should heat one glass of milk. Add one teaspoon of turmeric in it. You should let it boil and then simmer for five minutes. You should pour it in a cup. Add a small amount of raw honey in it. Drink this home remedy two times per day to speed up the healing process. Also you can mix together a pinch of cayenne pepper, one tablespoon of honey, one tablespoon of lemon juice and two tablespoons of turmeric juice. You should consume this nasal obstruction natural cure once or twice per day.
TAGS
home remedy for blocked nose
how to clear blocked nose
nasal obstruction treatment
Vijila
Dr. Emil Sarsath (aka) Vijila, a licensed naturopathic doctor who always ensures his patients receive compassionate, and individualized care. He has extensive experience in primary care, digestive health, mental health, nervous system disorder and more. Area of Expertise – Naturopathic Medicine, Whole Foods-based Nutrition, Siddha, Panchakarma
1 COMMENT
Nandu March 23, 2018 at 9:58 am
Hi great article
Reply
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Please enter your comment!
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Terms and conditions
Contact Us
© Newspaper WordPress Theme by TagDiv
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();