Minoxidil solution | DermNet NZ
logo-new
This page was printed on
26th April 2019
DermNet NZ RANDOM random RANDOM TRANSLATE TRANSLATE CLOSE SEARCH modal-close SEARCH DERMNET
logo-new
Home Topics A–Z Images Browse Glossary CME Quizzes About Contact Jobs
Home
Topics A–Z
Images
Browse
Glossary
CME
Quizzes
About
Contact
Jobs
Donate
breadcrumbs Home » Topics A–Z » Minoxidil solution
Minoxidil solution
Author: Hon A/Prof Amanda Oakley, Dermatologist, Hamilton, New Zealand,1998.
Minoxidil for pattern hair loss
Minoxidil was originally marketed in a tablet form for the treatment of high blood pressure. One of the side effects of this treatment was unwanted hair growth. This side effect promoted researchers to produce a topical solution for treating hair loss. In some countries, it is available in other formulations such as foam.
Topical minoxidil is used in the treatment of male pattern hair loss in men, and female pattern hair loss in women. It is occasionally useful for other forms of hair loss (alopecia), including alopecia areata, and after hair replacement surgery or chemotherapy.
Minoxidil is marketed in New Zealand as Rogaine™ Topical Solution (5%) and Headway™ Topical Solution (2% and 5%). The 5% solution is probably more effective but it may result in greater irritation than the 2% solution. It is applied to the affected area of the scalp once or twice daily for a minimum of 6 months. If it is found effective, it may be continued long term.
How does minoxidil work?
Minoxidil solution dilates small blood vessels. When applied to the affected areas of the scalp twice daily it has been shown to stimulate hair regrowth probably by enhancing cell proliferation. It is possible it also has an effect on the immune cells in the hair follicle.
Increased hair growth is seen after approximately 4 months of treatment. Generally hair growth is thinner and finer than the original hair.
What are the side effects of minoxidil solution?
Local irritation may occur, most often resulting in irching or stinging. Contact allergy to minoxidil or propylene glycol (the main component of the solution) occurs rarely, and results in dermatitis.
Unwanted hair growth might occur ( hypertrichosis), for example if the solution is dripped onto the forehead.
Internal effects are not likely as there is minimal absorption into the system. However, hair growth in distant sites such as the arms, chest and lower back has occasionally been reported when the 5% solution has been used.
Minoxidil is best avoided during pregnancy and breastfeeding (Pregnancy Category C, i.e., Drugs that, owing to their pharmacological effects, have caused or maybe suspected of causing harmful effects on the human fetus or neonate without causing malformations. These effects may be reversible.)
What happens if minoxidil treatment is stopped?
If treatment is stopped, the pretreatment appearance will normally return within 3 or 4 months. If it is stopped after several years of use, the hair that was genetically programmed to be lost during that time will fall out.
Efficacy may be enhanced by concurrent use of a topical retinoid.
New Zealand approved datasheets are the official source of information for these prescription medicines, including approved uses and risk information. Check the individual New Zealand datasheet on the Medsafe website.
Related information
On DermNet NZ:
Hair loss
Alopecia areata
Telogen Effluvium
Male pattern hair loss
Female pattern hair loss
Finasteride
On other websites:
Consumer medicine information and data sheets – Medsafe
Drugs, Herbs and Supplements – MedlinePlus
Recently added pages
Splinter haemorrhage
Aeroallergens and the skin
Peanut allergy
Fibroepithelioma of Pinkus
Spindle cell melanoma
Legius syndrome
Annular lichenoid dermatitis of youth
Erythema gyratum repens
Chronic spontaneous urticaria
Chronic inducible urticaria
Periorificial dermatitis in children
Naevus simplex
Hypogonadism in males
Dermatology Made Easy Book
Tweets by dermnetnz
Self-skin examination
Smartphone apps to check your skin - Learn more. Sponsored content.
With your help, we can update and expand the website.
Sign up to the newsletter
Full name
Email address
Tell us your profession or specialty Please select I am a dermatologist Primary care physician Other health professional Other (not health professional) Medical student or physician in training Patient or caregiver Marketing/media
SPAM PROTECTION - DO NOT FILL THIS FIELD IN
DermNet NZ does not provide an online consultation service. If you have any concerns with your skin or its treatment, see a dermatologist for advice.
youtube
Contact us
Sponsors Donate Website terms FAQ Advertising policy Privacy policy Image licence Newsletter Volunteer Submit a photo
logo-new-white
© 2019 DermNet New Zealand Trust.
Creative Commons License
print-logo-footer
© 2019 DermNet New Zealand Trust.
DermNet NZ does not provide an online consultation service. If you have any concerns with your skin or its treatment, see a dermatologist for advice.