Parents Warned to Look out for 'Potentially Dangerous' Cough in Children | The Hearty Soul
Advertisement
Posted on: November 22, 2017 at 3:55 pm
Last updated: November 22, 2017 at 5:11 pm
Is your child’s coughing a sign of the common cold – or something worse? That depends. If the coughing sounds like the “barklike” cough, your child just might have croup – a children’s respiratory disease that blocks the airway to the lungs (1).
See the video below by pediatrician Dr. Paul Thomas for examples of the raspy, “barking” croup cough (6):
In severe cases, children with croup may develop serious breathing difficulties and other complications, like ear infections, asphyxiation, and pneumonia (1).
But what is croup – and how can you tell the difference between croup and the common cold?
What is croup?
Advertisement
Croup is a viral respiratory condition – caused most commonly by the “common cold” (parainfluenza) virus in the fall season (5) – that makes the airway to the lungs to swell up, mostly in children 6 months to 3 years old (1, 7). However, any child 3 months to 15 years old may contract it (7).
Being a viral infection, croup is also highly contagious, by air or by physical contact, for 7 to 10 days following exposure to the virus (3). Parents and adults may therefore contract the croup virus as well, though it may manifest more commonly as the common cold or laryngitis, as adult airways are bigger and are not easily obstructed by swelling (8). Croup in adults is possible but extremely rare; the symptoms of croup for adults are similar to the symptoms of children’s crop, except they tend to be more severe (9).
Croup can seem similar to common cold at first (7). Children with croup may initially exhibit cold-like symptoms, like a stuffy nose, coughing, fever, and fatigue (7). However, they may soon develop distinctive symptoms of croup as well, like a raspy voice, breathing difficulties, and a cough that mimics a dog or seal’s barking (7).
Most cases of croup are mild and may pass in 48 hours. However, if a child with croup does not recover within 48 hours or shows moderate to severe symptoms of croup, the child should be taken to a doctor (1).
In a typical North American city, less than 10% of children contract croup every year, with less than 5% of these children needing hospitalization from severe croup symptoms (7).
Symptoms of Croup
Advertisement
Common symptoms of croup include (2,4):
Hoarse, “barking” croup cough
Raspy voice
High-pitched, squeaking sounds that accompany breathing (i.e. “stridor“)
Fast, labored breathing
Noticeable retractions of the skin (i.e. the skin between the ribs pulls when breathing)
Being unable to walk or talk due to breathing difficulties
Pale, bluish color around the mouth
Dry, sticky mouth (from dehydration)
Few or no tears when crying (from dehydration)
Thirst or peeing less (from dehydration)
Sunken eyes
Drooling
Having difficulty swallowing
Extreme fatigue
Restlessness, distress, or agitation
Being unusually quiet or still
These symptoms might get worse at night.
However, it is possible for your child to exhibit many croup-like symptoms without suffering from croup. Your child may not have croup if (4):
He/she does not have raspy, “barking” coughs. In this case, he/she may have the common cold instead.
He/she wheezes often and eats less than usual. This may indicate bronchiolitis, not croup.
He/she coughs frequently and “whoops” when breathing in. This could be indicative of the whooping cough.
Advertisement
Children that were born prematurely may be at greater risk of contracting croup (2). Children with a history of asthma and lung disease may also be at higher risk of developing croup (2).
Treatment for Croup
Treatment options for croup can include at-home care, medication, and hospitalization, depending on the severity of the infection. Some of the most common treatment options for croup include:
Hydration. You should give your child plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration, a common symptom of croup and cold-like viral infections (4). However, you should not keep your child in a steamy room (e.g. a bathroom after a hot shower) or get them to inhale steam (4).
Rest. Any child with a viral infection like croup should have plenty of sleep and rest.
Calming the child. Anxiety and restlessness will only worsen the symptoms of croup (8). You should try your best to keep your child calm and assure them that everything will turn out fine (8).
Steam. Taking a steamy shower or breathing in steam from a bowl of hot water can help relieve respiratory symptoms. You can also run a humidifier in the room at night.
Homemade vapor rub. The right mix of natural ingredients applied to the chest can help soothe cough and congestion. Find our favorite recipe here!
Medicine. You should not give cough or cold medicine to children with croup (4). However, you can address their cold-like symptoms, like fevers, with child-appropriate doses of acetaminophen (to a child of any age) if desired. In children with mild croup, a single oral dose of dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory allergy medicine, may help relieve swelling for up to 4 days (7). In children with moderate to severe croup, a mist of epinephrine or budesonide (anti-inflammatory medication), in conjunction with dexamethasone, may be more appropriate (7). However, these medications come with side effects so exercise with caution and discuss with your doctor if it is absolutely necessary.
Hospitalization. In severe cases of croup, your child may need breathing treatments, emergency doses of steroid medicine, or intubation at a hospital (1).
So the next time your child begins to show signs of cold-like symptoms, watch out for major symptoms of croup, like the “barking” croup cough. It could mean the difference between speedy recovery and serious breathing difficulties.
Sources:
Petter, O. (2017). Parents warned to look out for ‘potentially dangerous’ cough in children. [online] The Independent. Available at: http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/barking-cough-child-croup-outbreak-cases-rise-parents-warning-health-a7994381.html [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
Kidshealth.org. (2017). Croup. [online] Available at: http://kidshealth.org/en/parents/croup.html [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
Uofmhealth.org. (2017). Croup | Michigan Medicine. [online] Available at: http://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/hw31906 [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
National Health Service UK. (2017). Croup – NHS.UK. [online] Available at: https://beta.nhs.uk/symptoms/croup/?WT.mc_id=organic_split [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
Rosekrans, J. (1998). Viral Croup: Current Diagnosis and Treatment. Mayo Clinic Proceedings, 73(11), pp.1102-1107.
YouTube: paulthomasmd. (2017). CLASSIC CROUP: Live Diagnosis with Dr. Paul. [online] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7VGxsxnJYE [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
Johnson, D. (2017). Croup. [online] Aafp.org. Available at: http://www.aafp.org/afp/2016/0915/p476.html [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
ChildrensMD. (2017). The croup has hit – ChildrensMD. [online] Available at: https://childrensmd.org/browse-by-age-group/newborn-infants/croup-hit/ [Accessed 22 Nov. 2017].
Woo, P., Young, K., Tsang, K., Ooi, C., Peiris, M. and Yuen, K. (2000). Adult Croup: A Rare but More Severe Condition. Respiration, 67(6), pp.684-688.
Image and Video Sources:
YouTube: paulthomasmd. (2017). CLASSIC CROUP: Live Diagnosis with Dr. Paul. [online] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7VGxsxnJYE [Accessed 21 Nov. 2017].
https://static.17h43.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/calmer-toux-enfant.jpg
Advertisement
The Hearty Soul
Health Network
We believe in using natural ingredients to be as healthy as possible. We believe dieting will never work as well as a lifestyle of healthy habits will. We believe you can treat pain and disease without relying on addictive drugs. We believe being happy is a big part of a healthy life.
Products We Love
Super Potent Black Cumin Oil
$49.00
Buy Now
X-tra Strength Apple Cider Vinegar Detox
$18.95
Buy Now
RARE Grey Himalayan Salt Lamp Light
$43.90
Buy Now
A Special Message From Our Founders
Over the past few years of working with health experts all over the world, there’s one major insight we’ve learned.
You don’t have to rely on expensive medications for the rest of your lives.
Most health problems can often be resolved with a good diet, exercise and a few powerful superfoods. In fact, we’ve gone through hundreds of scientific papers and ‘superfood’ claims and only selected the top 5% that are:
Backed by scientific research
Affordable
Simple to use
We then put this valuable information into the Superfood as Medicine Guide: a 100+ page guide on the 7 most powerful superfoods available, including:
Exact dosages for every health ailment
DIY recipes to create your own products
Simple recipes
Grab your copy before the offer runs out!
I WANT ACCESS NOW
Related Articles
8 Signs That You May Be Vitamin B12 Deficient
Truths and Lies About Fasting That Everyone Should Know
Why You Should Massage Your Feet Before Bed
How to Do Squats: 8 Reasons to Do Squat Exercises
Mom Bans Heavy Smoking M-I-L From Touching Baby Unless She Showers and Changes First Each Time
Basal Cell Carcinoma: How Carrie Doles’ Tanning Bed Habit Caused Skin Cancer
Read more about:
Health Awareness
Advertisement
The Hearty Soul
Health Network
Advertisement
Dashboard
Read Next: 12 Stretching Exercises for Muscle Pain Relief and Optimum Flexibility!
JOIN OUR WEEKLY NEWSLETTER
About
Contact
Contribute
DISCLAIMER
This site is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice, legal advice, or professional services. If you feel that you have a medical problem, you should seek the advice of your physician or health care practitioner. For additional information please see our full disclaimer and privacy information and terms of service.
Affiliate disclosure | © 2017 Copyright The Hearty Soul. Created by Outmatch
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you would like to avoid this, please disable cookies in your browser settings.Thanks for letting me know!