Private label contract vitamin manufacturing
Private Label Vitamins-Vitamin Manufacturers-Custom Vitamin-Vitamin Manufacturing-Private Label Supplements-Wholesale Vitamins
1-208-690-3444
House Formula's
New Products
Stock
Labels
Vitamin Retailers
Contact Us
Services
Bulk Vitamins
Testimonials
About Us
Raw Materials
Links
International
Monthly Specials
Blog
High Volume
Wholesale and Private Label Evening Primrose Oil
If you would like to Private Label any of our in stock vitamins, please ask for our Private Label Vitamin Price Guide
(this is separate pricing from the wholesale pricing listed on our site).
Call 1-888-546-8694 for Private Label Pricing. Or e-mail us at [email protected].
Additive-Free
Acai Resveratrol Omega 3 Capsules Maqui Berry Bilberry
Anti-aging
Anti-Aging Resveratrol Plus
Antioxidants
Acai Berry Acai Berry - Organic Acai Cleanse Acai Cleanse with Caralluma Acai Cleanse with Hoodia Acai Freeze Dried Acai Freeze Dried Powder Acai Powder 4:1 Extract Alpha Lipoic Acid Anti-Oxidant Coconut Oil Mangosteen Moringa Maqui Berry Pomegranate Resveratrol
Bariatric Nutrients
Bariatric Post-Op Vitamins Bariatric Pre-Op
B Vitamins
Anti Stress Balanced B Complex Balanced B Complex - Tablets Balanced B Complex Time Released - Tablets Balanced B Complex w/Vitamin C B-12 1000 B-12 B-12 Sublingual Mega B 500
Baby Boomer Vitamins
Baby Boomer Vitamin Pack
Blood Sugar Support
Blood Sugar Support Glucose Drink Shot
Brain Health
5 HTP Brain Power Ginkgo Biloba Mood Relief Formula Phosphotidylserine 500 mg Neuro -PS®
Children's Health
Children's Chewable Vitamins Children's Liquid Calcium
Diet Products
African Mango Belly Fat Reduction Body Cut and Tone (Ephedra Free) Body Slim (Ephedra Free) Body Slim w/Fucoxanthin Body Slim and Tone w/Fucoxanthin Body Slim Plus Body Slim Shake Carbohydrate Blocker Chá de bugre CLA 1000 mg CLA Safflower Corta Trim and Tone Fat Blocker Fucoxanthin Plus Hoodia Hoodia NHS Hoodia Cut and Tone Hoodia South African Plus HydroxSlim Slim Lipo Plus Water Pill
Drink Shots
Cram Night™ Glucose Drink Shot Joint Pain Relief Shot Liquid Energizer Shot Skinny Tea Sleep Shot, Non-Addictive
Energy Products
Caffeine Capsules Cram Night™ NHS Energizer Liquid Energizer Shot
Eye Health
Beta Carotene Bilberry Extract Eye Health Luetin Lycopene
Fat Burning Formulas
White Bean Extract
Fiber
Pure Fiber
Green Foods
Greens and Berries Greens and Berries Powder Green Food Plus
Heart Health
Chelsta-Care (Sytrinol) Co Q10 - 30 mg Co Q10 Plus - 30 mg (w/250 mg L-carnitine) Co Q10 - 50 mg Co Q10 - 60 mg
(w/Red Yeast Rice) Co Q10 - 100 mg Co Q10 - 400 mg Co Q10 w/Flaxseed Co Q10 Super Energy Cod Liver Oil EPO Essential Oils 3-6-9 Evening Primrose Plus Evening Primrose Oil Krill Oil Odorless Garlic Omega 3 Omega 3 Plus Omega 3 1360 mg Omega Q (w/Co Q10) Organic Flax Seed Oil Red Yeast Capsules Ubiquinol
Immune Support
Immune Aid Immune Spray
Joint Support Formulas
Glucosamine 400/300 Glucosamine 500/400 Glucosamine Extra Strength Glucosamine w/Hyaluronic Acid Complex Hyaluronic Acid 1% 500 mg Joint Joint NHS Plus Joint Smoother w/Omega Joint Pain Relief Shot MSM 750 Shark Cartilage Shark Liver Oil
Liquid Vitamins
Calcium/Magnesium+D Daily Vitamin Daily Vitamin Plus Glucosamine
Liver Health
Curcumin Lecithin Complex Milk Thistle
Men's Health
Belly Fat Mood Elevating Complex for Men Colon Cleanser Plus Multivitamin Complex Prostate Plus Saw Palmetto 320 Testosterone Volumizer Yohimbe
Natural Heartburn Relief
Heartburn Relief
Nutri Cosmetics
Hair, Skin and Nail Sea Buckthorn Oil
Organic Supplements
Organic Soy Protein Powder, Vanilla Organic Soy Protein Powder, Chocolate Organic Greens Powder Organic High Lignan Flaxseed Oil Powder Organic High Lignan Flaxseed Oil 1000mg Organic High Lignan Flaxseed Oil 1200mg
Pain Relief Supplements
Curcumin C3™ Complex
Probiotics
Probiotics Adult Plus Probiotics Green Probiotics Junior
Protein
Single Ingredients
Acerola - Chewable Biotin 1000 Calcium Citrate Cascara Sagrada Chromium Piconolate Vitamin C - 500mg Vitamin C - 1000mg Vitamin C - Chewable Vitamin E - 400IU Vitamin E Natural - 400IU Vitamin E - 1000IU Vitamin E Natural - 1000IU Vitamin E + Selenium Vitamin K2
Sleep Formulas
Sleep Aid Sleep Shot
Skincare, Creams & Gels
Anti-aging Collagen Serum Breast Enhancement Cream Cellulite Formula Sea Buckthorn Oil
Specialty Products
Breast Enlargement Formula Cholest-Aid Collagen - Bovine Collagen - Type II DHEA - 25 mg DHEA - 50 mg Digestive Enzyme Goji Berry HGH Support (This product does not contain actual HGH) HGH Support Plus (This product does not contain actual HGH) HGH Support Spray (This product does not contain actual HGH) Herbal V Max Hyaluronic Acid Klamath Lake Blue Green Algae Maxa-Lotion for Men Melatonin Maximizer Noni
Sports Fitness Products
Acetyl L-Carnitine BCAA Creatine Monohydrate Creatine Monohydrate Powder Creafit Insured Vitamin Drink w/HMB L-Glutamine NO2 MAX NO2 Plus Pre Workout
Super Fruits
Tart Cherry
Vitamins & Minerals
Calcium 600 Calcium 600 with D Calcium with D Softgel Calcium/Magnesium Calcium/Magnesium Plus Cal/Mag Zinc with D Centra Vit Centra Vit Senior without Iron Coral Calcium Coral Calcium Plus Coral Calcium Powder Daily One Vitamin Daily One with Extra Calcium Life Force Plus One Daily Vitamin Selenium 100 mcg Vitamin D3 Vitamin D3 Dropper Vitamin D Softgels
Women's Health
Belly Fat Mood Elevating Complex for Women Folic Acid Hair, Skin and Nail Isoflavones 750 MenaSoy Plus NHS Vita Glow Pregnenolone Prenatal Vitamin Women's Daily One Women's Multi w/ Iron Women's V Get Free Quote
Evening Primrose Oil
View label
Click here for wholesale pricing.
Serving Size 1 softgel / 90 softgels to a bottle
Evening Primrose Oil 1000mg
Cis-Linolenic Acid (la) 730mg
Gamma-Linolenic Acid(GLA) 90 mg
The rich stores of GLA in evening primrose oil are what make it so valuable in healing. Taken internally, the body converts GLA into prostaglandins. These hormonelike compounds help regulate various body functions, controlling inflammation in some cases and promoting it in others. The prostaglandins produced from GLA fall into the anti-inflammatory category. Cell membranes also rely on the presence of GLA.
Specifically, evening primrose oil may help to:
Relieve the discomforts of PMS (premenstrual syndrome), menstruation, endometriosis and fibrocystic breasts.
By interfering with the production of inflammatory prostaglandins released during menstruation, the GLA in evening primrose oil can help to lessen menstrual cramps. It may also minimize premenstrual breast tenderness, irritable bowel flare-ups, and carbohydrate cravings, and help to control endometriosis-associated inflammation.
Many PMS sufferers are found to have unusually low levels of GLA in their systems, which is why supplements might help so much. Although the oil has not been widely used in this country for treating PMS, Europeans have long used it for this condition. In women with fibrocystic breasts, the oil's essential fatty acids can minimize breast inflammation and promote the absorption of iodine, a mineral that can be present in abnormally low levels in women with this condition.
Ease the joint pain and swelling of rheumatoid arthritis.
Supplementation with evening primrose oil and other sources of GLA has been shown to lessen the joint pain and swelling of this crippling disease. A six-month study reported fewer signs of inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis sufferers taking capsules containing GLA than in those taking a placebo. In another trial, the number of tender joints and swollen joints dropped significantly with GLA but not with a placebo.
Reduce the symptoms of eczema.
In some cases, eczema develops when the body has problems converting dietary fats into GLA. Getting supplemental GLA from evening primrose oil may therefore be helpful. Some studies indicate that this oil can outperform a placebo in relieving eczema-related inflammation, as well as the itching, oozing, and flaking associated with this condition. By taking GLA, eczema sufferers may tolerate reduced doses of steroid creams and drugs--many of which cause unpleasant side effects. Not all studies point to such benefits, however, and many conventional doctors remain skeptical.
Help treat acne and rosacea.
By working to dilute sebum, a thick oily substance that is oversecreted in some people with acne, the essential fatty acids in evening primrose oil may reduce the risk of pores becoming clogged and lesions developing. The oil's EFAs help treat rosacea by reducing inflammation, controlling cells' use of nutrients, and by producing prostaglandins, which stimulate the contraction of blood vessels.
Lessen numbness and tingling.
By helping to keep the myelin sheaths that cover nerve fibers healthy--and communication between the brain and nerve cells functioning smoothly--the essential fatty acids in evening primrose oil may help to reduce or prevent numbness and tingling in the feet, hands or legs.
Combat damage from multiple sclerosis.
The abundant supply of essential fatty acids in evening primrose oil may be valuable in minimizing the inflammation associated with this progressive nerve disorder. The fatty acids may also contribute to healthy nerve development when taken over time. It is important to initiate supplement use as soon as possible after diagnosis.
Treat Alzheimer's-related memory deficiencies.
By boosting the transmission of nerve impulses, evening primrose oil may be valuable in treating this progressive brain disorder.
Protect against the effects of aging.
As the body ages, it loses its ability to convert dietary fats into GLA. Because this essential fatty acid is involved in so many body processes, taking evening primrose oil can help to compensate for any deficiencies in GLA.
Counter impotence and female infertility.
By promoting blood flow, the GLA in evening primrose oil can help treat a primary cause of male impotence--compromised circulation leading to impaired penile blood flow. The oil is often taken with vitamin C and ginkgo biloba for this purpose. In addition, when the oil is taken long term, GLA can help prevent blood vessel narrowing, often a consequence of plaque buildup from high cholesterol. By improving uterine function, GLA may also help those who are unable to conceive.
Alleviate Raynaud's disease symptoms.
One study found a benefit in gently rubbing evening primrose oil directly into fingertips numbed by this circulatory disorder. The oil's GLA content is thought to be responsible for the improvement. The toes may benefit from this treatment as well, although the oil's effect on toes was not examined in the study.
Nourish nails, scalp, and hair.
The rich stores of essential fatty acids in evening primrose oil not only prevent nails from cracking but also help to keep them generally healthy. In addition, the essential fatty acids nourish the scalp, making the supplement potentially valuable in treating a variety of hair problems.
Prevent alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
GLA prompts the brain to produce a specific type of prostaglandin called prostaglandin E, which works to prevent withdrawal symptoms such as depression and seizures by indirectly protecting the liver and nervous system.
Note: Evening primrose oil has also been found to be useful for a number of other disorders.
Data to support the safety of long-term use of evening primrose oil are not available. There have been few or no reports of toxic reactions to evening primrose oil over nearly two decades of widespread use as a supplement, however.
The products and the claims made about specific products on this website have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease. The information provided on this site is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional.
© 2019 NHS, Inc. All rights reserved. // 11665 W.State St. Star, ID. 83669
[email protected] // 800.841.4132 // 208.898.4183 // Fax 208.898.4237