Yoga teacher Julia explains how yoga is helpful for asthma | Aspergillus & Aspergillosis Website
Skip to main content
Aspergillus & Aspergillosis Website
LIVING WITH IT WORKING WITH IT TREATING IT
Search form
Search
Main menu
Home
About Us
Site map with RSS feeds
Survey
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Website sponsors
Register/Login
What's New
Jobs
Latest additions
News Blog
Newsletters
News for the press
Patients
Aspergillosis Trust
Drug interactions
Map of People with Aspergillosis
NAC Support Meetings
Official Public Launch National Aspergillosis Centre
Patients Website
Q and A support group
Spore Report UK
Supplements and Herbs
Support Communities (eg Facebook)
Scientific
Air Quality
Aspergillus Proteins
Biodeterioration
Conferences/Courses & events calendar
Genomes
Geo-microbiology
Lab Protocols
Mycology Courses
Mycotoxins/Metabolites
Q & A support group for professionals
Societies & Groups
Species Database
Strain Database
Prehistoric Fungi
Medical
Treatment of Aspergillosis and Aspergilloma
Antifungal drugs SPC
Diagnosis of Aspergillus Infection
Drug interactions Pro
Antifungal Stewardship
Paediatric Fungal Infections
Case Histories
New drugs for aspergillosis
Clinical Trials
Aspergillosis
ClinicalTrials.gov
NHS Choices
WHO database
Antifungal
ClinicalTrials.gov
NHS Choices
WHO database
Jobs
Veterinary information
Other fungal infection (LIFE-Worldwide)
Marijuana use and aspergillosis
Global Aspergillosis Statistics
England Aspergillosis Statistics
Library
Advances Against Aspergillosis
Article database
Books
Open Access
Conference abstracts, Posters & Presentations
Conferences/Courses & events calendar
History of Aspergillus & Obituaries
Mycological and Medical Mycological Societies
Milestones of aspergillosis & Fungal Disease
Newspaper cuttings
Theses
Resources
Education
Education and teaching tools
CPD/CME
Information leaflets
Slide presentations
Website slide collection
Imported Slides
Powershow - Aspergillosis
Powershow - Aspergillus
Medical & Patient Videos
Molecular Mycology e-Course
Images & Video
Images library
Videos
Specific Patients
Video clips (cell biology)
Flickr images
Aspergillus art competition for schoolchildren
Aspergillus art competition for schoolchildren - Finalists
Artwork by aspergillosis patients
Yuri Amatnieks Aspergillus Collection
A. glaucus
A. flavus
A. fumigatus
A. nidulans
A. niger
A. terreus
A. sydowii
eANOFEL images
Editorial Board
What is Aspergillosis
Search Info
Yoga teacher Julia explains how yoga is helpful for asthma
Diagnosed with asthma in her 30s, Julia White teaches yoga to people with asthma to help them control their symptoms.
“I was diagnosed with asthma in my thirties in early 2003. I’d been feeling unwell and struggling to breathe for a while, and could no longer do simple things like meet friends for lunch without getting symptoms. But when my GP said it was asthma my heart sank. I lost my younger sister,Claire to an asthma attack in 1994 so I was terrified about what it meant for me.
“After a bad asthma attack left me with a cracked rib in the summer of 2003, I decided to completely re-evaluate my life and get my asthma under control. I quit my fast-paced job as a wedding and events planner and started a yoga training course. I’ve always been active and tried yoga in the past, so this was an opportunity to learn more about the exercise and how I could use it to improve my asthma.”
Discovering the benefits
“It took several months after my diagnosis to get my asthma under control and feel myself again. I started using a preventer inhaler and monitored my peak flowregularly to keep on top of my symptoms, but practising yoga was a huge help.
“At first I would start panicking if I felt my chest tightening and my breathing becoming more difficult, but yoga brought a stillness and calm into my life – helping me to get control of my breathing and manage my asthma better.
“It’s now been 10 years since my last asthma attack. My breathing is better and I feel so much healthier. While I sometimes get symptoms when the pollen count is high or when it’s cold, I’m now at a point where I can confidently manage my asthma and stay calm if I notice my breathing is becoming difficult. And I always keep my reliever inhaler with me in case of emergencies.
“I aim to practise yoga every day as I know just five minutes of yogic breathing and three or four postures will make me feel more energised and relaxed. All I need to do is find a quiet space, roll out my yoga mat and let the movements and deep breathing techniques work my mind and body.”
General interest
Video library
0
Share
Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share Share
Subscribe to Newsletter
Fill out your e-mail address
to receive our newsletter!
E-mail address:
Aspergillus Website Newsletters
Our most recent newsletters (since August 2018) can be found here.
An archive of our older newsletters (dating back to 2006) can be found here.
About Us ¦ Privacy Policy ¦ Terms and Condition & Copyright policies and our Disclaimer ¦ Site Information ¦ Site Map ¦ Our Sponsors ¦ Contact Us
Please note: The Aspergillus Website does not accept advertisments, all content is published on merit BB.com
Site Sponsors
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Search only trustworthy HONcode health websites: