Buy Calcimax Op + Tablet 15 Online
We deliver across India Medlife.com Upload Prescription Blog Health Articles Free Home Delivery *
Search
Cart 0
Search
Home
Diabetic Care
Diabetes Monitors
Test strips
Lancets
Diabetic Footwear
Sugar Substitute
Diabetic Teas
Herbal Supplements
Shop By Concern
Cardiac Care
Eye & Ear Care
Liver Care
Bone, Joint & Muscle Care
Stomach Care
Women's Care
Men's Care
Elderly Care
Cancer Care
Smoking Cessation
Pain Relief
Kidney Care
Respiratory Care
Memory Boosters
Diet & Nutrition
Sports Nutrition
Family Nutritions
Body Building
Weight Loss
Vitamin & Supplements
Protein Supplements
Meal Replacement
Immunity Boosters
Nutrition Bars
Health Drinks
Super Food
Omegas
Weighing Scales
Personal Care
Women's Hygiene
Personal Hygiene
Oral Health Care
Anti- Pollution Masks
Skin Care
Hair Care
Mosquito Repellent
Anti-Age
Baby & Mom Care
Naturalis Essential Oil
Pet Supplies
Medical Devices
Health Monitors
Diabetes Monitors
Blood Pressure Monitors
Thermometers
Hemoglobin Test Monitors
Nebulizer
Disposable Medical
Doctor's Corner
Suction machine
Sexual Wellness
Men's Sexual Health
Women's Sexual Health
Fertility
Condoms
Shilajeet Products
Lubricants & Massage Gels
Medlife Essentials
Cardio supplements
Diabetic supplement
Orthopedic Supplement
Liver Care
Men's Sexual Health
Immunity Boosters
Mind Wellness
Respiratory Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Stomach Care
Homeopathy
SBL - Homeopathy
Allen - Homeopathy
Bakson's - Homeopathy
Dr. Reckeweg - Homeopathy
ADEL - Homeopathy
Wheezal - Homeopathy
Well-being
Pain Relief
Body-building
Ayurveda Medicine
Women Care
First Aid Kits
Ayurveda Products
Top Selling Products
'); // menu.show(); // } else { navigation.html(' '); menu.hide(); // }
Search
Home › Calcimax Op + Tablet 15
Calcimax Op + Tablet 15
Medlife
Rs. 225.00 Rs. 225.00
1 - Rs. 225.00
Uses :
Selenium Selenium helps to reduce the risk of autoimmune thyroid disorders such as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. It is used to reduce the cholesterol levels. Selenium is also useful for the prevention of grey hair, mood disorders, infertility, cataracts, macular degeneration and miscarriage. Zinc Zinc is usually prescribed for the treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency. It is used for the treatment of diarrhea. It reduces the symptoms of Wilson’s disease. It is used for the treatment of acne. Gingivitis, peptic ulcers, and muscle cramps. It is used to treat foot ulcers in the diabetic patient. It enhances wound healing in the patients with burns. It is used to reduce the risk of anemia. It is used to reduce the symptoms of anorexia. Zinc supplements are used for the treatment of common cold, atopic eczema, psoriasis and macular degeneration. Vitamin D3 Vitamin D3 is indicated for the treatment of vitamin D deficiency, bone disorders such as rickets, osteoporosis, osteomalacia, treatment of hypoparathyroidism, and other conditions where vitamin D3 is deficient which include celiac disease, Crohn’s disease, and liver problems. Calcium Calcium is a dietary calcium supplement which is used for the treatment of hypocalcemia or low blood calcium levels. It is also used to treat osteoporosis, heartburn, indigestion, and hyperphosphatemia in patients with chronic renal failure.
Mode of drug action
Selenium Selenium plays a role in the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and proteins. It has antioxidant activity and prevents the cell damage. It reduces the risk of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Zinc Zinc is an essential trace element. It plays a vital role in the protein synthesis and in the cell division. It is essential for the proper growth and functioning of the body. It plays an important role in the immune functioning, wound healing, blood clotting, thyroid functioning and, absorption and utilization of vitamin A. Zinc improves the absorption of vitamin A and improves vision. Vitamin D3 Vitamin D3 or cholecalciferol is a steroid hormone that regulates calcium and phosphorus absorption, bone mineralization, and vitamin A assimilation. In the body, vitamin D3 is converted into its active form calcitriol. Calcitriol acts by increasing the absorption of calcium and phosphorus, bone resorption, and renal tubular reabsorption of calcium. It also promotes intestinal absorption of calcium. Thus, calcitriol increases the levels of serum calcium. Calcium Calcium supplements calcium in the diet. It also prevents absorption of phosphate from the gastrointestinal tract in people with kidney disease.
What are the common side effects?
Selenium The most common side effects of selenium are bad breath, fever, nausea, and vomiting. Zinc The most common side effects reported are nausea, bad taste, diarrhea, vomiting, mouth irritation, and, rarely, mouth sores. Vitamin D3 The cholecalciferol or Vitamin D3 side effects include loss of appetite, increased urination, increased thirst, mental/mood changes, muscle weakness, constipation, and unusual tiredness. Calcium The common side effects of calcium are constipation, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, flatulence, indigestion, increased thirst, and abdominal pain.
Warning
Pregnancy: Safe under medical guidance Breast feeding: Safe under medical guidance Alcohol: Unsafe Kidney dysfunction: Caution required Liver dysfunction: Caution required
Special precautions for safe use
• Do not take Calcimax OP plus drug if allergic reaction has been experienced to any of its ingredients in the past. There is every possibility to have a similar reaction which may be a serious Calcimax OP plus side effect.
• Calcimax OP plus should not be used by the patients with extremely high levels of calcium or vitamin D (e.g. parathyroid gland disorders and sarcoidosis).
• Before taking any other drugs along with the Calcimax OP plus medicine, inform a doctor to avoid unwanted effects due to the interactions.
• It is especially important to avoid ceftriaxone due to the risk of damage to lungs and kidneys.
• Calcimax OP plus should be taken with caution by people having conditions such as achlorhydria (low stomach acid), hypo or hyperphosphatemia (low or high phosphate levels), hypothyroidism, and poor kidney function.
• Pregnant or breastfeeding women should take Calcimax OP plus medication only with a doctor’s recommendation.
• Take the exact v dosage as prescribed by the doctor. Exceeding the dose can lead to unwanted effects of the drug.
• Go through the label thoroughly to know the Calcimax OP plus side effects and safety instructions before use.
What else should I know?
1. How should I store selenium supplements? Selenium supplements should be stores at room temperature away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is selenium safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Selenium is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with selenium supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. What are the dietary sources of selenium? High levels of selenium can be found in fish, shell fish, red meat, grains, eggs, chicken, and liver.
5. Is selenium useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, selenium is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Zinc
1. How should I store zinc supplements? Zinc supplements should be stores at room temperature away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is zinc safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Zinc is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with zinc supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. What dietary restrictions should I follow while taking zinc supplements? Zinc does not interact with most of the food substances. Avoid consuming alcohol while taking zinc supplements. Consult your physician for safe use.
5. Is zinc useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, zinc is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Vitamin D3
1. Is it safe to use Vitamin D3 during pregnancy? If the benefits outweigh the potential risks, vitamin D3 can be used in pregnancy. Before taking the drug, you must consult your doctor.
2. Is it safe to drive while on vitamin D3 medication? If you experience dizziness, or headache as the side effect of the drug, it may not be safe to drive. So, check how you react to the drug before driving.
3. Can I stop taking the drug immediately or do I need to taper it? Certain medications require tapering of the dose or frequency and may cause rebound effects if stopped immediately. You must seek the medical advice before stopping the medication.
4. Can cholecalciferol be used for the treatment of osteoporosis and rickets? Yes. Cholecalciferol is considered as best vitamin D3 supplement for treating the bone disorders such as osteoporosis and rickets. Do not use the drug without consulting your physician.
5. What are the signs and symptoms of overdose with cholecalciferol? The signs and symptoms of vitamin D3 overdose are weakness, metallic taste in your mouth, nausea, frequent urination, and vomiting. Seek medical care if you experience any of the above symptoms. Calcium
1. Is calcium good for health? Calcium is a dietary calcium supplement and can be used to treat low blood levels of calcium.
2. Is calcium used to treat osteoporosis? Osteoporosis occurs due to low calcium levels. Calcium, a calcium supplement, can help in treating and preventing osteoporosis.
3. Can calcium be taken with milk? Yes. Consuming foods fortified with vitamin D can enhance calcium absorption. So, you can consume milk, egg yolks, or fish along with the use of calcium.
4. Can calcium be taken with food? It is preferable to take calcium after a meal as the acid produced in the stomach during digestion can help in calcium absorption.
5. Is calcium safe during pregnancy? Calcium can be used safely during pregnancy as a calcium supplement. However, it is recommended to consult a doctor before taking the medication.
Share 0 Tweet Pin it 0 Fancy +1
You may also like
Xyzal 5 Mg Tablet 15
Rs. 103.50 Rs. 103.50
Trika
Rs. 140.00 Rs. 140.00 Rs. 100.00 Rs. 100.00
SHIGRU CAP
Rs. 110.00 Rs. 110.00
Voveran Tpm Gel 30 Gm
Rs. 105.45 Rs. 105.45
Voveran Sr 75 MG Tablet 10
Rs. 67.00 Rs. 67.00
Quick Links
Diabetic Care
Shop By Concern
Diet & Nutrition
Personal Care
Medical Devices
Sexual Wellness
Medlife Essentials
Homeopathy
Well-being
First Aid Kits
Ayurveda Products
Top Selling Products
FSSAI License
Get In Touch
Contact us at:
contact@medlife.com
Twitter
Facebook
Explore Medlife:
- Online Medical Store
- Blog
- Health Articles
- Find Doctors - Clinics
Payment methods
Registered Office
Medlife International Private Limited
Room No. 101A, Zubaida Complex,
Exhibition Road, Patna – 800 001.
Bihar, India.
Web: www.medlife.com
Contact : 1860 1234 1234
CIN- U24230BR2014PTC023149.
Corproate Office & Biiling Address
Medlife International Private Limited
Tower –D, 5th Floor, IBC Knowledge Park,
4/1, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore – 560029.
Web: www.medlife.com
Contact: 1860 1234 1234
© 2019 Medlife Shop
Enter the mobile to get OTP
Get OTP
←
An SMS with a one time password(OTP) has been sent to
Didn’t receive SMS ?
RESEND
Confirm