Does Exercise Help Mental Health? - North County Health Services
Get seen today! Schedule now	Call Now (760) 736-6767
Español
Locations
MyHealth Login
Contact
Search
Menu
Health Services
About Our Services
Providers
Flu Symptoms & Treatment
Adult Medicine
Pediatric Care
Dental Care
Women’s Health
Behavioral Health
QuickCare
Chiropractor
Pharmacy
Lab and X-Ray
Transportation Services
About Us
Our History
Leadership
Board of Directors
We Love Our Work
Annual Reports
Mission Statement & Core Values
Awards & Recognition
Our Health Partners
FAQs
What’s New
Become a Healthcare Advocate!
Newly Remodeled NCHS Mission Mesa Women’s Health Center
New NCHS Ramona Health Center
NCHS Grand Ave Health Center Relocation
NCHS Perris Health Center
Press Room
Blog
Vitals E-Newsletter Sign Up
Perris Community Connection E-Newsletter Sign Up
Resources
New Patients
WIC
Our Programs
Health Insurance Enrollment (Application Assistance)
Health Care Reform FAQ’s
Community Events
HIV/AIDS Case Management
Careers
Available Positions
Culture
Employee Benefits
BGR & C.A.R.E. University
Volunteer with NCHS
Patient Advisory
Ways to Give
Why Support NCHS
2019 NCHS Gala
Giving Tuesday
Donate Now
Ramona Health Center Capital Campaign
The President’s Circle
Employee Giving
Mission Mesa Women’s Health Support
Fore for Kids XIV Golf Classic
Fund Development News
Fund Development Team
Home / Blog / Uncategorized / Does Exercise Help Mental Health?
Blog
Does Exercise Help Mental Health?
Most people know that exercise is good for them. It improves sleep, helps you maintain a healthy weight, and increases energy levels. What you may not know is that exercise has also been shown to have significant impacts on those with mental health issues, particularly depression and anxiety. Countless scientists, researchers, and universities have done studies on the effects that exercise has on those with depression and anxiety, and the results are both astounding and very encouraging. Some studies have even determined that exercise can be just as effective, if not more effective, as anti-depressant medications! So the short answer is yes—exercise does help mental health. Read on to learn about how it helps and how you can get on the road to better mental health with regular exercise.
The Science behind Exercise and Mental Health
You’ve likely heard about runner’s high or weight-lifting euphoria, but do you know that those are caused by the workout themselves? You don’t have to be in love with running or be obsessed with weight lifting to experience those mind-boosting benefits. Exercise increases blood flow to the brain, which makes your body release endorphins, which is essentially your body’s homemade antidepressant and releases serotonin, which lifts your mood.
Additionally, low-intensity exercise has been shown to stimulate and increase cell growth, which is incredibly important. Not only will cell growth help your brain to restructure itself into feeling positive emotions and break the habit of negative thought patterns, but it will improve your overall health and wellness. Scientists that studied individuals with depression found that the area of their brains that regulate their mood (the hippocampus) was actually physically smaller than those without depression. Increased nerve cell growth due to exercise will help the hippocampus grow and will improve nerve cell connections, reducing the symptoms of depression.
A study done by Duke University looked at several individuals who were diagnosed with depression. They were divided into three treatment groups: exercise, medication, and exercise & medication. After 16 weeks, all groups showed similar improvements in depression symptoms, all of which were considered significant.
The Positive Effects of Exercising on Mental Health
Not only is exercise biologically good for you when it comes to improving mental health, but it is a great way to improve your overall quality of life, including relieving your depression, anxiety, or other mental health issues. People who exercise are generally more in tune with their overall wellness, and they tend to eat better, regulate sleep better, and live an overall healthier lifestyle. When your physical wellness improves, your mood improves. You will likely have a more positive outlook on life and a better appreciation for the life you were given.
It can be hard to push yourself to exercise when you’re experiencing a slew of negative emotions, but exercise can significantly improve even short-term struggles. If you’re feeling exhausted, overwhelmed, hopeless, insecure, or stressed, exercise can be a great way to cope and overcome those negative emotions and thoughts. Even physical pain from a disability, injury, or health issue can often be improved with appropriate exercise.
Exercise is an outlet—a place to go and something to do to keep your brain and body busy. It is a good distraction from the stress in your life and the mental health challenges you’ve been dealing with. Exercise brings about sharper memory, more clarity in thinking, improved focus, higher self-esteem, better sleep habits, more energy, and stronger mental and physical resilience.
Break the Cycle & Start Now
It can be hard to find the motivation to get started exercising when you’re dealing with an overwhelming mental health issue. In addition to challenging mental symptoms, depression can cause a variety of physical symptoms as well, such as problems sleeping, decreased energy, body aches, appetite irregularity, and a general lack of motivation. It can be hard to break the cycle of depression and struggling with mental and physical issues, but the sooner you can muster up the motivation to begin exercising, the sooner you’ll begin seeing the positive benefits of it. Every little bit helps, so even if you start with a five-minute walk around the block a few times a week, you’ll be making progress.
It’s hard to know exactly how little or how much exercise is necessary to see the improvements in mental health. However, most studies have had participants do low-intensity, low-impact exercises, like walking, biking, or light jogging. Just 30 minutes a day for 3 or 4 days a week will bring about great results. Be aware that it may take a few weeks to see the benefits of regular exercise, particularly when it comes to depression symptoms, but you will likely experience positive wellness effects within just the first few days.
The original research study done by Duke University did a follow-up study where they looked at the original participants for another six months after the initial investigation. They found that the participants who continued to exercise saw continued improvement in their depression, and only 8% of the exercise group relapsed, experiencing depression once again. In contrast, the medication-only group saw a relapse in 38% of participants and the medication plus exercise group had 31% relapse. The long-term effects of exercise for mental health are very encouraging. Taking an active role in improving your health can be quite powerful, and we hope you will experience this confidence boost as you begin exercising to improve your own mental health.
NCHS Can Help
If you’re ready to get started exercising or want to learn more about the benefits of exercise on your mental health, get in touch with NCHS today. We offer a variety of behavioral health services, including treatment of many mental health conditions. Contact us now or visit an NCHS location near you.
Community Connection
Healthy Habits
Pregnancy
Pulse Check
Temperature Check
The Heartbeat
Uncategorized
Why choose NCHS? Find a great provider Need affordable health coverage?
Subscribe to our Blog
Email*
Home
Health Services
About Us
What’s New
Community Resources
Careers
Ways to Give
Locations
Contact
Follow us to better health
This health center is a Health Center Program grantee under 42 USC 254b, a deemed Public Health Service employee under 42 USC 233(g)-(n), and an FTCA deemed facility. NCHS complies with applicable Federal civil rights laws and does not discriminate on the basis of race,color, national origin, age,disability, sex, gender identity or expression.
Copyright © 2002-2018 North County Health Services | Notice of Privacy Practices | Website designed by AshWebStudio
×