Knee Osteoarthritis: When to Consider Surgery
Skip to content
Check Your Symptoms Find a Doctor
Sign In Sign Up Subscribe
My ProfileWelcome
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Check Your Symptoms
Find a Doctor
Health
A-Z
Drugs &
Supplements
Living
Healthy
Family &
Pregnancy
News &
Experts
Mobile
Apps
Subscribe to Free
Newsletters
Sign In
Sign Up
My ProfileWelcome
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Living With Knee Pain
Living With Knee Pain
11 Knee Pain Dos and Dont's
The Effects of OA
Exercises for Pain and Mobility
Walking to Ease the Aches
NSAIDs and Arthritis
Shots for Knee Pain
Treating OA With Injections
When to Consider Surgery
A Closer Look at Your Knee Joint
How Arthroscopic Surgery Can Help
How Weight Loss Can Help Your OA
Alternative Treatments
Sports Injuries and Your Risk for OA
Healthy Eating for Knee Osteoarthritis
Questions for Your Doctor About Knee OA Treatments
The Link Between Knee Pain and Depression
Choose a Walking Shoe to Relieve Pain
Advances in Knee Arthritis Treatment
Knee Osteoarthritis: When to Consider Surgery
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) can affect your every move: walking, climbing stairs, even sitting or lying down. Surgery can help bring relief, but doctors almost always advise trying other treatment options first. These include:
Medications you take by mouth. Over-the-counter options include acetaminophen (Tylenol) as well as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve). NSAIDs fight inflammation. Stronger NSAIDs are available by prescription.
Creams or ointments you rub onto the skin. Different forms are sold over the counter. You can get stronger versions with a prescription.
Medications injected into the joint. Corticosteroid injections, also called cortisone shots, fight inflammation and can offer fast pain relief that may last up to several months. Injections of hyaluronic acid boost the natural joint fluid that keeps knees moving smoothly. They may take up to a couple of months to have their full effect but can last up to 6 months or more.
Exercise and physical therapy. Exercise strengthens the muscles that support your knee. Physical therapy also helps. A physical therapist can design the program for you and see if you need supportive braces, splints, or canes. If you need to lose weight, diet and exercise can help you shed some pounds and take some of the pressure off your knees.
Weight loss. Every pound you gain puts an extra 3 pounds of pressure on your knees. If you eventually need knee replacement surgery, your chances of success are much greater if you first lose extra weight.
Nutritional supplements. Some people take glucosamine and chondroitin for OA. Studies on how well they work have had mixed results. Another supplement, called SAMe, has been shown to work as well as nonprescription pain relievers and may have fewer side effects. It takes longer to work, though. Before you start taking any supplements, even if they're natural, tell your doctor so he can check for any side effects.
These treatment options may provide enough relief to keep you moving comfortably. If they don't, they become less effective over time, or you can't tolerate them, your doctor may suggest considering surgery. The two types of surgery most often recommended for knee OA are arthroscopic surgery and knee replacement surgery.
Arthroscopic Surgery
In this type of surgery, the surgeon inserts a thin tube with a tiny camera on the end through a small opening in your skin to view the inside of your knee. The surgeon can then remove damaged cartilage -- the smooth covering that protects the bones in the joint. Your knee can be cleaned or flushed to remove loose bone or cartilage pieces that may be causing pain.
Most people can get back to their usual activities a few days later. The recovery usually isn't painful.
Arthroscopic surgery may provide short-term relief from pain and possibly delay more complex surgery.
Knee Replacement Surgery
If you have tried all other osteoarthritis treatment options and still have knee pain, your doctor may suggest knee replacement. It can help reduce your pain and improve your ability to move.
Knee replacement surgery involves removing all or part of the knee joint and replacing the damaged parts with an artificial joint. These are made of metals and plastics.
It may take months to recover fully, but the relief can last many years or even a lifetime.
It may be time to have knee replacement surgery if you have:
Severe knee pain that limits your everyday activities
Moderate or severe knee pain while resting, day or night
Long-lasting knee inflammation and swelling that doesn’t get better with rest or medications
A bowing in or out of your leg
No pain relief from NSAIDs or can't tolerate them
WebMD Medical Reference
Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on December 13, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
American Academy of Family Physicians: "Dietary Supplements for Osteoarthritis."
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: "Arthroscopy."
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: “Total Knee Replacement.”
American College of Rheumatology: “Recommendations for the Medical Management of Osteoarthritis of the Hip and Knee.”
Arthritis Foundation: Osteoarthritis Treatment: “What medications are used to treat osteoarthritis?”
Arthritis Foundation: “51 Ways to Be Good to Your Joints.”
Arthritis Foundation: “Good News for Knees.”
FamilyDoctor.org: “Osteoarthritis of the Knee.”
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
NEXT IN THE SERIES
From WebMD
More Information on Osteoarthritis
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Find WebMD on:
Facebook
Twitter
Pintrest
AdChoices AdChoices
About WebMD
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Contact Us
©2005-2018 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.