Fungal Groin Infection (Tinea Cruris) | Symptoms and Treatment | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Health Info
Infections
Fungal Infections
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Download PDF
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Fungal Groin Infection Tinea Cruris
Authored by Dr Oliver Starr, Reviewed by Dr John Cox | Last edited 26 Apr 2018 | Certified by The Information Standard
In this series
In this series: Fungal Infections Antifungal Medicines Oral Thrush (Yeast Infection) Thrush in Men Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis) Candidal Skin Infection (Yeast Infection) Ringworm (Tinea Corporis) Fungal Scalp Infection (Scalp Ringworm) Fungal Nail Infections (Tinea Unguium) Fungal Lung Infections
In this series Fungal Infections Antifungal Medicines Oral Thrush (Yeast Infection) Thrush in Men Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis) Candidal Skin Infection (Yeast Infection) Ringworm (Tinea Corporis) Fungal Scalp Infection (Scalp Ringworm) Fungal Nail Infections (Tinea Unguium) Fungal Lung Infections
Fungal groin infection (tinea cruris) is an infection of the groin caused by a fungus. It is a common problem, particularly in athletes and in the elderly. Treatment with an antifungal cream usually works well. The tips given below may help to prevent recurrences.
In this article
What is fungal groin infection and how do you get it?
What are the symptoms of fungal groin infection?
What is the treatment for fungal groin infection?
Preventing recurring fungal groin infection
In This Article
Fungal Groin Infection
Tinea Cruris
In this article
What is fungal groin infection and how do you get it?
What are the symptoms of fungal groin infection?
What is the treatment for fungal groin infection?
Preventing recurring fungal groin infection
What is fungal groin infection and how do you get it?
Fungal groin infection (tinea cruris)
Fungal groin infection (tinea cruris) is a fungal skin infection of the groin. Some types of fungal germs (fungi) are commonly found on human skin. They usually do no harm. However, if conditions are right they can 'invade' the skin, multiply and cause infection. The conditions fungi like best are warm, moist and airless areas of skin, such as the groin, under the arms and under the breasts.
What are the symptoms of fungal groin infection?
Typically the groin becomes itchy and a bit sore, mainly in the crease between the top of the leg and the genitals. It is more common in men and the scrotum may also be itchy. Red, slightly scaly skin then develops in the groin, usually with a definite edge or border. Both sides are commonly affected. The rash often spreads a short way down the inside of both thighs.
Sometimes the infection spreads to the skin on other parts of the body (or may have first started in another area, such as athlete's foot (tinea pedis). Fungal infections do not usually go deeper than the skin into the body and are not usually serious.
What is the treatment for fungal groin infection?
You can buy an antifungal cream from pharmacies, or get one on prescription. There are various types and brands - for example, terbinafine, clotrimazole, econazole, ketoconazole and miconazole. These modern creams are good at clearing fungal skin infections.
Apply the cream to the surrounding 4-6 cm of normal skin in addition to the rash.
Apply for as long as advised. This varies between the different creams, so read the instructions carefully.
For skin that is particularly inflamed, your doctor may prescribe an antifungal cream combined with a mild steroid cream. This would normally be used for no more than seven days. You may need to continue with an antifungal cream alone for a time afterwards. The steroid reduces inflammation and may ease itch and redness quickly. However, the steroid does not kill the fungus and so a steroid cream alone should not be used.
An antifungal medicine taken by mouth is sometimes prescribed if the infection is widespread or severe - for example, terbinafine, griseofulvin, or itraconazole tablets.
You can read more about treatments for fungal infections in the separate leaflet called Antifungal Medicines.
This photo below (top left) shows the typical appearance of fungal groin infection (tinea cruris) and shows how it is treated with terbinafine cream until it is almost gone (bottom right):
Tinea cruris (treatment progress)
Image source: Open-i - see Further reading reference below
Preventing recurring fungal groin infection
Wash your groin daily; then dry thoroughly. Drying is perhaps the most important point. It is easy to put on underwear when your groin is not quite dry. The damp groin is then an ideal site for fungal germs (fungi) to multiply. (A hairdryer is useful if you have hairy groins.)
Change underwear daily. Fungi may multiply in flakes of skin in unwashed underwear.
Check for athlete's foot (tinea pedis) and treat it if you have it. Athlete's foot is a common fungal infection of the toes. In a typical case of athlete's foot, the skin between the toes is itchy and flaky - especially between the outer two toes. The fungi from athlete's foot may spread to the groin. The same creams are used to treat athlete's foot and fungal groin infection (tinea cruris).
Do not share towels with people in communal changing rooms. Wash towels frequently.
Keep your own towel when you have a fungal skin infection to reduce the chance of passing on the fungus to others.
Next page
Ringworm (Tinea Corporis)
Previous page
Candidal Skin Infection (Yeast Infection)
Did you find this information useful? yes no
Thanks for your feedback!
Why not subscribe to the newsletter?
Email address *
We'd love to send you our articles and latest news by email, giving you the best opportunity to stay up to date with expert written health and lifestyle content.
By clicking 'Subscribe' you agree to our Terms and conditions and Privacy policy.
Subscribe
Thanks for your feedback. if you would like to report a specific issue with this page, please visit our feedback page.
Thank you, we just sent a survey email to confirm your preferences.
Further reading and references
Fungal skin infection - body and groin; NICE CKS, September 2014 (UK access only)
Fungal skin infections; DermNet NZ
Choudhary S, Bisati S, Singh A, et al; Efficacy and Safety of Terbinafine Hydrochloride 1% Cream vs. Sertaconazole Nitrate 2% Cream in Tinea Corporis and Tinea Cruris: A Comparative Therapeutic Trial. Indian J Dermatol. 2013 Nov58(6):457-60. doi: 10.4103/0019-5154.119958.
Related Information
Dermatophytosis (Tinea Infections) Pro
Antifungal Medications Pro
Antifungal Medicines
Pityriasis Versicolor Pro
Vaginal Thrush (Yeast Infection)
View all
What your nails say about your health
3 minutes reading time 25-Jan-19
ok not going to lie ive had a yeast infection (i think) for two years. im really freakin scared to tell my parents. i dont feel anything its just inconvenient . what can i buy (im 16 btw) to get rid...
Helloooo
Join the discussion on the forums
Health Tools
Feeling unwell?
Assess your symptoms online with our free symptom checker.
Start symptom checker
Article Information
Last Reviewed 26 April 2018
Next Review 25 April 2021
Document ID 4351 (v42)
Author Dr Oliver Starr
Peer reviewer Dr John Cox
The information on this page is written and peer reviewed by qualified clinicians.
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up