Is Exercise 'Useless' In Treating Depression?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Is Exercise "Useless" In Treating Depression?
Published	 Monday 11 June 2012	 Published	Mon 11 Jun 2012
By Catharine Paddock PhD
The publication of a new study in the BMJ on 6 June triggered a flurry of headlines suggesting that "exercise doesn't help depression". However, reducing the study's specific, detailed findings to a media-friendly sound bite has run the risk of misleading people, because the researchers did not set out to test the effect of exercise on depression.
This article explains what the researchers did and what they found, while pointing out that some of the older established research in this area is coming under increasing scrutiny, and so perhaps there is a need for a new wave of rigorous, specific studies. In the meantime there are lots of experts who support the idea that exercise can help patients with depression, particularly if they have or are at high risk of developing other conditions such as obesity, cardiovascular disease or diabetes, which can often be the case.
What Did The Researchers Do?
The BMJ study researchers, from the Universities of Bristol, Exeter and the Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, wanted to find out whether adding a specific physical activity intervention to the "usual care" that patients with depression receive through their general practitioners (GPs) in the UK, would significantly reduce their symptoms.
The intervention, called TREAD (TREAtment of Depression with physical activity), is based on theory, and provides a trained facilitator who gives "individually tailored support and encouragement to engage in physical activity", write the researchers.
This kind of study helps healthcare providers make decisions about what services to offer through primary care.
The researchers wanted to test TREAD because while there is evidence to suggest exercise is beneficial for people with depression, it is mostly from small, less rigorous studies examining programmes the National Health Service (NHS) may not find practical to deliver.
TREAD is designed to "improve long term adherence to physical activity", and a key feature is encouraging patients to select their own activities, depending on their individual needs and what they can readily do in their own environments. The patients receive up to three face to face meetings with the facilitator, who is trained in motivational interviewing techniques, and they can also have up to 10 telephone calls.
In the BMJ study the intervention lasted for up to 6 to 8 months, with most of the facilitator involvement being in the first four.
The participants were 361 adult patients aged 18-69 who had recently been diagnosed with depression at several different centers in the UK. They were randomly assigned to one of two groups: one group received the usual care, and the other group received the usual care plus TREAD.
The trial followed the participants for 12 months, with measures taken at 4 months, 8 months, and 12 months. For depression symptoms the key measure was the Beck depression inventory, and participants were also asked about use of antidepressants.
The exercise data came from diaries the participants completed about their physical activity. A subset of participants also wore accelerometers, and this data confirmed that the diaries were sufficiently reliable and accurate.
"Usual care" meant that the participants in both groups were asked to follow the advice of their GP for their depression. So they were free during the trial to take up any of the treatment options usually available in primary care: this includes counselling, use of antidepressants, and "exercise on prescription".
Thus, a distinguishing feature of this study is that all patients were free to take up prescribed exercise, but only some were encouraged to do so.
Another distinguising feature is that the study was not comparing the effectiveness of exercise encouragement with other forms of treatment such as counselling and medication, but as an adjunct to these.
The current government guidelines in the UK suggest adults should do 150 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity per week, so the researchers explain that:
"The aspiration was for the participants [in the TREAD group] to engage in moderate or vigorous activity for 150 minutes a week in bouts of at least 10 minutes, but if that seemed unrealistic then the facilitator encouraged any increase in physical activity, whatever the intensity."
What Did They Find?
The results showed that the patients in the TREAD intervention group fared no better than those who only received the usual care.
For instance, there was "no evidence that participants offered the physical activity intervention reported improvement in mood by the four month follow-up point compared with those in the usual care group".
And, "similarly, there was no evidence that the intervention group reported a change in mood by the eight and 12 month follow-up points".
The results also showed no evidence of reduced antidepressant use in the TREAD group compared to the usual care only group.
In their conclusion, the authors write:
"The addition of a facilitated physical activity intervention to usual care did not improve depression outcome or reduce use of antidepressants compared with usual care alone."
However, the researchers did find that the participants in the TREAD group reported more physical activity during the follow-up period, even months after they stopped having contact with the facilitator.
Thus the researchers did not conclude that exercise is "useless" for depression, as some of the headlines would suggest, but their findings could provide useful information for healthcare staff making decisions about which exercise programmes to include in primary care services.
Lead author Melanie Chalder, from University of Bristol's School of Social and Community Medicine, told the press:
"Numerous studies have reported the positive effects of physical activity for people suffering with depression but our intervention was not an effective strategy for reducing symptoms."
"However, it is important to note that increased physical activity is beneficial for people with other medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease and, of course, these conditions can affect people with depression."
The researchers said they now plan to study whether TREAD has potential to treat conditions other than depression.
What Happens Now?
The government guidelines are set by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). These were last revised in 2009 and suggest patients with mild to moderate depression should be offered group-based physical activity programmes, with support from a competent facilitator, "guided by the person's preference". This should consist "typically of three sessions per week of moderate duration (45 minutes to 1 hour) over 10 to 14 weeks".
It remains to be seen whether the BMJ study will lead to a change in these guidelines. One reason to suggest it will not, is summarized in a comment made in an NHS Choices article by Bazian, a group that analyzes the research evidence behind daily healthcare stories:
"This study assessed just one type of exercise intervention that involved facilitating greater activity levels. Therefore, this study does not tell us whether other types of support or exercise programme may have a positive effect on depression."
They suggest the study may be useful to NHS staff who need to know which types of interventions might help patients with the condition.
However, there are also reasons to suggest the study may prompt some to question the guidelines, because they are based on older evidence that is now coming under increasing scrutiny.
For example, in 2009, a Cochrane review that updated an earlier widely-cited systematic review by others, concluded that the findings of the earlier review were statistically weak and did not support the idea that exercise is effective in the treatment of depression.
Other reviews have also suggested that more conclusive research is still needed into the use of exercise to treat depression, and such research should also look at the use of exercise as an adjunct to recognized treatments, and examine its ability to hold the gains in the longer term.
These points were raised in a Dutch paper published in BMC Public Health in January, that describes the design of a new study to examine the effect of running therapy on depression. The authors said by taking notice of the criticisms raised in these recent reviews, they see their trial as the "first well conducted add-on randomised controlled high-quality trial into the effect of aerobic exercise on depression".
They also intend to measure the effect of aerobic exercise, which in this case comprises running therapy and nordic walking, on other diseases and conditions that often accompany depression, such as metabolic syndrome.
Exercise and other forms of physical activity are relatively cheap and non-harmful treatment options that don't have the side effects of medication and do not require "the introspective ability necessary for most psychotherapies", write the authors.
Perhaps their study and the recent BMJ study represent the start of a new wave of more rigorous, specific research into various aspects of exercise and depression, driven not only by the pressure to achieve value for money in public health, but also by the increasing demand from patients, doctors and researchers, who see that despite considerable development in treatment approaches, medication and psychotherapy are not ideal solutions.
And in the Meantime?
In the meantime, many authorities and experts are continuing to promote the idea that exercise has a beneficial role in treating depression.
For instance, in the United States, the Institute for Clinical Systems Improvement (ICSI), in its latest revised guideline for treating adults with major depression in primary care, states that "physical activity and active patient engagement are also useful in easing symptoms of major depression".
In 2010, a Journal of Family Practice article "providing evidence-based answers from the Family Physicians Inquiries Network", notes that "exercise alone reduces patient-perceived symptoms of depression as effectively as cognitive behavioral therapy or drugs". The article goes on to say that mixed exercise and more of it get better results, and that meditative exercise also shows positive effect.
In the state of Victoria in Australia, the health authorities suggest that exercise not only eases depression by influencing brain chemicals like serotonin, but it can also help boost self-esteem because the person takes an active role in their own recovery. Being more physically active, for instance by taking part in team sports, can also have a positive effect on social life.
Other benefits include inducing a more relaxed state of mind, and also while exercising, people are unlikely to be thinking about what makes them depressed. These are in addition to proven physical benefits, such as improved cardiovascular fitness, helping to maintain healthy weight, and reductions in cholesterol and blood pressure.
In the UK, the NHS Choices website says "exercise can help people recover from depression and prevent them from becoming depressed in the first place". It says anyone with depression can benefit from exercising regularly, but it is "especially useful for people with mild depression".
The site also suggests that engaging in exercise helps people with depression regain control of their bodies, which is a step towards gaining control of other aspects of their lives.
They urge patients to ask their GP about exercise on prescription. Depending on personal circumstances and what is available locally, it may be possible to get this for free, or at a reduced cost.
They recommend adults should do 150 minutes of moderate intensity activity every week, and they should start gradually if they haven't exercised for a while. Even a 15-minute walk can make a difference by helping to clear the mind and inducing relaxation.
Another way to get started is to take part in team sports, go to classes at a sports centre or gym, or just be more active in daily life, such as walking or cycling instead of using the car.
"Anything that gets you off the couch and moving is exercise that can help improve your mood," says the Mayo Clinic in the US.
Written by Catharine Paddock PhD
Related coverage
Competition is the best workout motivation, study finds A new study examines competition and support as motivators for physical exercise. The study also looks at the role social media plays in motivation. Read now
Exercise can boost teens' academic performance Children who carry out regular moderate to vigorous exercise are more likely to succeed academically, compared with those with low levels of physical activity, researchers say. Read now
What Are The Best Ways To Promote Exercise Around The World? A range of successful and effective interventions from around the world were recognized in the third paper in The Lancet Series that can be used to encourage people to be physically... Read now
Just 1 hour of exercise per week could prevent depression Researchers found that 1 hour of weekly exercise can help to prevent depression, whereas a lack of physical activity increases risk of the disorder. Read now
Lack of exercise 'twice as deadly' as obesity We know lack of exercise is tied to obesity - which in turn raises risk of chronic diseases and early death - but a new study shows it also links to early death regardless of BMI. Read now
Have a medical question? Connect with an online doctor
Get started
email email
print
share share
Depression
Sports Medicine / Fitness Primary Care / General Practice
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Facilitated physical activity as a treatment for depressed adults: randomised controlled trial"; Melanie Chalder, Nicola J Wiles, John Campbell, Sandra P Hollinghurst, Anne M Haase, Adrian H Taylor, Kenneth R Fox, Ceire Costelloe, Aidan Searle, Helen Baxter, Rachel Winder, Christine Wright, Katrina M Turner, Michael Calnan, Deborah A Lawlor, Tim J Peters, Deborah J Sharp, Alan A Montgomery and Glyn Lewis; BMJ 2012, 344:e2758; DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e2758 (Published 6 June 2012); Link to Article.
"Effect of running therapy on depression (EFFORT-D). Design of a randomised controlled trial in adult patients [ISRCTN 1894]"; Frank R Kruisdijk, Ingrid JM Hendriksen, Erwin CPM Tak, Aartjan TF Beekman, and Marijke Hopman-Rock; BMC Public Health 2012, 12:50; DOI:10.1186/1471- 2458-12-50; Link to Article.
Exercise questioned as depression treatment, Bazian for NHS Choices, 6 June 2012;
NICE's Oct 2009 Update to guidance on treatment and management of depression in adults;
Depression and exercise, Better Health Channel, State Government of Victoria.;
Depression, Major, in Adults in Primary Care (ICSI Guideline);
Depression and exercise, Mayo Clinic.
Additional information
Visit our Depression category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Depression.
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Paddock, Catharine. "Is Exercise "Useless" In Treating Depression?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 11 Jun. 2012. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/246391.php>
APA
Paddock, C. (2012, June 11). "Is Exercise "Useless" In Treating Depression?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/246391.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Depression
Can Lexapro cause weight changes?
Is it safe to drink alcohol while taking Lexapro?
How to cope with a depressive episode
Masturbation and depression: Is there a link?
How does depression affect the body?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/246391.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);