Almonds & Migraines | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Nervous System Conditions
Headaches and Migraines
Almonds & Migraines
Carol Ochs
About the Author:
Carol Ochs
Carol Ochs is an award-winning writer in the Washington, D.C. area. During 17 years with The Associated Press she covered health, medical and sports stories as a writer, editor and producer. She has written for the health section of "The Washington Post," a Fairfax County stewardship publication and a biopharmaceutical newsletter. Ochs has a Bachelor of Science in journalism from Ohio University, Athens.
View Full Profile
There is no single cause or cure when it comes to migraine headaches, and the role almonds may play in a migraine also vary from person to person. For some people, almonds may be a trigger that sets the headache process in motion. For others, almonds may help to ease headache pain.
Migraines
Migraines are a severe type of headache that can last for hours or days and may force a sufferer to seek relief by lying down in a dark, quiet area. Migraines can cause intense throbbing or pulsing, often on one side of the head, and frequently are accompanied by nausea, vomiting and extreme light and sound sensitivity. Some people with migraines may see bright spots or flashes or light, experience vision loss, feel pins and needles in their arms or legs or suffer speech and language problems. There are many ways of treating migraines, and those who get the headaches may be asked to keep a headache log to help in their treatment.
Triggers
There are many different things that can trigger a migraine in people prone to the headaches. Some of the common triggers include hormonal changes, stress, eyestrain, changes in sleep patterns, extreme heat or cold, odors, bright lights, skipping meals and certain foods and beverages. Alcohol, caffeine, cheese and chocolate are common migraine triggers, but some people cite almonds as a trigger too. Doctors often ask migraine patients to note whether certain foods, such as almonds, appear to be linked to their migraine problems. Patients may then be asked to eliminate certain foods from their diets to assess the effect they have on their migraine headaches.
Magnesium
Some people who suffer from migraines have been found to have lower than normal levels of magnesium, so magnesium supplements have been used as a possible treatment for the headaches. Results have been mixed. Migraine sufferers who would like to try increasing their magnesium intake can turn to almonds for help. The recommended daily allowance of magnesium for adults ranges from about 300 to 400 mg/day, based on age and gender. A 1 oz. serving of almonds has 78 mg of magnesium, according to the Linus Pauling Institute.
Warning
Migraines can be extremely painful and can have a severe impact on your life, so speak with a doctor before trying to self-treat with foods and supplements. Doctors have a wide range of medicines and other treatment options for migraines. To help your physician, take notes before your visit on the frequency and severity of your headaches, as well as any possible triggers.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
MayoClinic.com: Migraine
Oregon State University Linus Pauling Institute: Micronutrient Information Center
University of Maryland Medical Center: Allergies, Intolerance and Sensitivity
University of California, Berkley: Migraine Triggers
American Headache Society: Headache Hygiene Tips
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
The Magnesium Dosage for Headaches
2
Glycemic Index for Almonds
3
Can Magnesium Give You a Headache?
4
What Are the Benefits of Lexapro?
5
Almonds & Arthritis
6
Vitamin B & Magnesium for Migraines
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.