Home Treatment of Fever
Toggle navigation
aarogya.com
Complementary Medicine
Ayurveda
Homeopathy
Naturopathy
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Aromatherapy
Batch Flower Remedies
Home Remedies
Massage
Yoga
Meditation
Reiki
Bodywork
Medical Palmistry
Conditions & Diseases
Acute Diarrheal Disease
Appendicitis
Blindness
Brucellosis
Chicken Pox
Conjunctivitis
Dysentery
Hookworm
Japanese Encephalitis
Lymphatic Filariasis
Plague
Rubella
Typhoid Fever
Yellow Fever
Allergy
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Computer Health Hazards
Chikungunya Fever
Dengue
Guinea Worm
Influenza
Leprosy
Malaria
Poliomyelitis
Tetanus
Whooping Cough
Viral Hepatitis
Amebiasis
Asthma
Bronchitis
Diagnostic Tests
Cholera
Diphtheria
Hepatitis
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Leptospirosis
Measles
Rabies
Tuberculosis
Yaws
Family Health
Children's Health
Diet & Nutrition
First Aid
Fitness
Humor & Trivia
Men's Health
Preventive Health
Senior's Health
Senior Citizen Corner
Teen’s Health
Vets and Pets
Women’s Health
Health Resources
Blood Donation
Career Opportunities
Daily Health Tips
Health Programs
Featured Hospitals
Medical Education
Health Professional's Negligence
Medical Tourism
Video Eye
Rural Health
Patients' Rights Forum
Insurance
Euthanasia
Health Insurance
Health Insurance Policies
Insurance Companies
Medical Ethics
Medical Jurisprudence
Research
Telemedicine
Compare Health Insurance
Sex & Sexuality
What is Sex & Sexuality?
FAQs
Marriage & Pregnancy
Sex Education
Support Groups
Addiction
Aids
Cancer
Epilepsy
Swine Flu
Blood Search
Vivah
Health Directory
Alzheimer's Disease
Medical Support Groups
Cardiology
Depression
Depression Screening Test
Diabetes
Disability
Kidney
Obesity
Pregnancy
Schizophrenia
Vitiligo
Marathi | Gujarati |	Register | Login
Search ...
Home
Articles
Fever
Home Treatment of Fever
Home Treatment of Fever
Print
Details
Hits: 9651
Fevers under 101 degrees Fahrenheit (38.3 degrees Celsius) generally do not need to be treated unless your child is uncomfortable or has a history of febrile convulsions. Even higher temperatures are not in themselves dangerous or significant unless your child has a history of convulsions or a chronic disease. It is more important to watch how your child is behaving. If he is eating and sleeping well, and has periods of playfulness, he probably doesn’t need any treatment. If he seems to be bothered by the fever, however, you can treat it by a variety of ways, including medication and sponging.
Fever medication
There are several medications that can reduce body temperature by blocking the mechanisms that cause a fever. These so–called antipyretic agents include acetaminophen, ibuprofen and aspirin. All three of these drugs appear to be equally effective at reducing fever. However, since aspirin may cause or be associated with side effects, such as stomach upset, intestinal bleeding and (most seriously) Reye syndrome, we do not recommend using it to treat a simple fever. Ibuprofen use is approved for children 6 months of age and older, however, ibuprofen should never be given to children who are dehydrated or vomiting continuously.
Ideally, the dose of acetaminophen should be based on a child’s weight, not his age. The dose of ibuprofen should be based on baseline temperature and weight, not his age. However, the dosages listed on the labels of acetaminophen bottles (which are usually calculated by age) are generally safe and effective unless your child is unusually light or heavy for his age.
Be sure to read and follow the instructions on the manufacturer’s label when using any medication. Following the instructions is important to ensure that your child receives the proper dosages. Acetaminophen may be contained in other over–the–counter medications, such as cold preparations. Read all medication labels to ensure your child is not receiving multiple doses of the same medicine. As a general rule, do not give a baby under 2 years acetaminophen or any other medication without the advice of your pediatrician.
Sponging to ease fever
In most cases, using oral acetaminophen or ibuprofen is the most convenient way to make your feverish child more comfortable. However, in some cases you might want to combine this with tepid sponging or just use sponging alone.
Sponging is preferred over acetaminophen if your child is known to be allergic to, or is unable to tolerate, antipyretic (antifever) drugs (a rare case).
It is advisable to combine sponging with acetaminophen or ibuprofen if
Fever is making your child uncomfortable.
He has a temperature over 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
He has a history of febrile convulsions or someone else in your immediate family has had them.
He is vomiting and may not be able to retain the medication.
How to sponge your child for fever
To sponge your child, place him in his regular bath (tub, bathinette or baby bath), but put only 1 to 2 inches of tepid water (85 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit or 29.4 to 32.2 degrees Celsius) in the basin. If you do not have a bath thermometer, test the water with the back of your hand or wrist. It should feel just slightly warm. Do not use cold water, since that will be uncomfortable and may cause shivering, which can raise his temperature. Seat your child in the water, it is more comfortable than lying down. Then, using a clean washcloth or sponge, spread a film of water over his trunk, arms and legs. The water will evaporate and cool the body. Keep the room at about 75 degrees Fahrenheit (23.9 degrees Celsius), and continue sponging him until his temperature has reached an acceptable level. Never put alcohol in the water, it can be absorbed into the skin or inhaled, which can cause serious problems, such as coma.
Usually, sponging will bring down the fever in thirty to forty–five minutes. However, if your child is resisting actively, stop and let him just sit and play in the water. If being in the tub makes him more upset and uncomfortable, it is best to take him out even if his fever is unchanged. Remember, fever in the moderate range (less than 102 degrees Fahrenheit [38.9 degrees Celsius]) is in itself not harmful.
Treating a mild fever
Keep your child’s room comfortably cool, and dress him lightly.
Encourage him to drink extra fluid (water, diluted fruit juices, gelatin–flavored water).
Avoid giving extremely fatty foods or others that are difficult to digest, as fever decreases the activity of the stomach, and foods are digested more slowly. There is no reason to discontinue giving your child the milk he normally drinks.
If the room is warm or stuffy, place a fan nearby to keep the cool air moving.
Your child does not have to stay in his room or in bed when he has fever. He can be up and about the house, but he should not run around and overexert himself.
If the fever is a symptom of a highly contagious disease (eg., chickenpox), keep your child away from other youngsters and elderly people.
Source: www.medem.com
0
Fever
Fever: First Aid
Home Treatment of Fever
Fever in Children
Health Professional's Negligence
Records of published articles in the newspapers helps common people about precautions to be taken while seeking the services from health professionals and also helps health professionals to rectify the negligence.
read more…
Specialties
Common Symptoms
Aarogya Network
aarogya.com aims to be India’s leading comprehensive health information portal. The site has sections, which cover almost all the medical specialties and give useful information on various diseases. To enhance its reach, the content is available in Indian languages too. We were the first health website to introduce online support groups. Addiction support and Epilepsy support are examples of some very active and vibrant communities.
» Click here to see all our support groups
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Get health related new information.
Subscribe
Digital Media Dedicated to Healthcare of Punekars
Health Tools
Health Directory
Message Board
Health Calculators
Depression Screening Test
About Aarogya.com
aarogya.com aims to be India’s leading comprehensive health information portal. The site has sections, which cover almost all the medical specialties
Read more...
Suggestions
This is YOUR site, so if you have suggestions or feedback on how we can improve it for you, please let us know! We do our best to keep up!
Read more...
User Comments
“My name is Paulette Conners and I just had to send you an email thanking you since one of the pages on your site was very helpful!”
About Us
Company Profile
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Feedback
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Invite Your Friends
© 2017 www.aarogya.com. All Rights Reserved.