Surgery for Ovarian Cysts
Dobbs Ferry Pharmacy
Home
Patient Info
Patient Forms
Medication Center
Health Library
Health and Disease A to Z
A B C D E F G H I
J K L M N O P Q R
S T U V W X Y Z (0-9)
Home
Understanding Infertility
Infertility—An Overview
Infertility Resources
Medication Center
Tests & Diagnostic Procedures
Treatment Options
Emotional and Social Issues
Tools and Resources
Health Encyclopedia
Health and Disease A to Z
Medical Tests A to Z
Rare Diseases A to Z
Support Organizations A to Z
Health Tools & Calculators
Tools / Calculators
Health Decisions
Take Action
BROWSE health TOPICS
a b c d e f g
h i j k l m n
o p q r s t u
v w x y z
BROWSE medications
a b c d e f g
h i j k l m n
o p q r s t u
v w x y z
News
FDA Orders Label Warning on Alcohol Use With 'Female Viagra'
Some Boys Are Having Sex Before 13
Gender Pay Gap Significant Among Infertility Doctors
Birth Control Pills May Protect Against Most Serious Ovarian Cancer: Study
When Your Partner Has Erectile Dysfunction
Health Tip: Treating Endometriosis
Fewer Periods May Mean Higher Dementia Risk
Supplemental Steroids, Testosterone May Lower Men's Sperm Counts
Opioid Overuse Can Lower Hormones to Harmful Levels
Less Invasive Fibroid Treatment May Work as Well as Surgery
'Male Pill' Makes Another Advance
Science Finds a Way for Transgender Males to Maintain Fertility
Surgery for Ovarian Cysts
Topic Contents
Surgery Overview
What To Expect After Surgery
Why It Is Done
How Well It Works
Risks
What To Think About
Surgery for Ovarian Cysts
Skip to the navigation
Surgery Overview
When an ovarian growth or cyst needs to be closely looked at, a surgeon can do so through a small incision using laparoscopy or through a larger abdominal incision (laparotomy). Either type of surgery can be used to diagnose problems such as ovarian cysts, adhesions, fibroids, and pelvic infection. But if there is any concern about cancer, you may have a laparotomy. It gives the best view of the abdominal organs and the female pelvic organs. Then, if the doctor finds ovarian cancer, he or she can safely remove it.
During surgery, a noncancerous cyst that is causing symptoms can be removed (cystectomy), leaving the ovary intact. In some cases, the entire ovary or both ovaries are removed, particularly when cancer is found.
What To Expect After Surgery
General anesthesia usually is used during surgery.
After a laparoscopy, you can resume normal activities within a day. But you should avoid strenuous activity or exercise for about a week.
After a laparotomy, you may stay in the hospital from 2 to 4 days and return to your usual activities in 4 to 6 weeks.
Why It Is Done
Surgery is used to confirm the diagnosis of an ovarian cyst, remove a cyst that is causing symptoms, and rule out ovarian cancer.
Surgery for an ovarian cyst or growth may be advised in the following situations:
Ovarian growths (masses) are present in both ovaries.
An ovarian cyst is larger than 3 in. (7.6 cm).
An ovarian cyst that is being watched does not get smaller or go away in 2 to 3 months.
An ultrasound exam suggests that a cyst is not a simple functional cyst.
You have an ovarian growth and you:
Have never had a menstrual period (for example, a young girl).
Have been through menopause (postmenopausal woman).
Use birth control pills (unless you are using low-dose progestin-only pills or have missed a pill, which would make an ovulation-related functional cyst more likely).
Your doctor is concerned that ovarian cancer may be present. In this case, it is also advised that you see a gynecologic oncologist.
How Well It Works
An ovarian cyst can be removed from an ovary (cystectomy), preserving the ovary and your fertility. But it is possible for a new cyst to form on the same or opposite ovary after a cystectomy. New cysts can only be completely prevented by removing the ovaries (oophorectomy).
Risks
Risks of ovarian surgery include the following:
Ovarian cysts may come back after a cystectomy.
Pain may not be controlled.
Scar tissue (adhesions) may form at the surgical site, on the ovaries or fallopian tubes, or in the pelvis.
Infection may develop.
The bowel or bladder may be damaged during surgery.
What To Think About
Surgery may be recommended if you have a large cyst, cysts in both ovaries, or other characteristics that may suggest ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer can occur in women of all ages, but the incidence increases after menopause.
Complete the surgery information form (PDF)(What is a PDF document?) to help you prepare for this surgery.
Credits
ByHealthwise Staff
Primary Medical ReviewerSarah Marshall, MD - Family Medicine
Specialist Medical ReviewerKirtly Jones, MD - Obstetrics and Gynecology
Current as ofOctober 13, 2016
Top of Page
Current as of: October 13, 2016
Author: Healthwise Staff
Medical Review: Sarah Marshall, MD - Family Medicine & Kirtly Jones, MD - Obstetrics and Gynecology
This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated, disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use. Learn how we develop our content.
To learn more about Healthwise, visit Healthwise.org.
© 1995-2017 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated.
Functional Ovarian Cyst
Abdominal Organs
Female Reproductive System
Last modified on: 8 September 2017
Tools
Print Handout
Larger Text
Smaller Text
Copyright HealthBanks, Inc. All rights reserved. | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy