Omega-3 fatty acids for mood disorders: Do they work? We really don't know.
Advanced Search
Create Account
or
Login
Login to Your Account
Remember Me?
Create Account
Forum
HOME
New Posts
Recent Posts
FAQ
Forum Rules
Forum Actions
Mark Forums Read
Quick Links
Today's Posts
View Site Leaders
Who's Online Expanded
Hash Tag Subscriptions
Thanks / Like Statistics
Mark Read
Topics
Activity
Blogs
Forum
Medication Issues
Alternative Medicine - Alternative Therapies - Natural Remedies
Omega-3 fatty acids for mood disorders: Do they work? We really don't know.
If this is your first visit, be sure to check out the FAQ. You will need to register before you can post. To start viewing messages, select the forum that you want to visit from the selection below.
Note that for the privacy of our members, some sections of the forum are visible only to logged in members.
Thanks: 0
Likes: 1
Results 1 to 1 of 1
Thread: Omega-3 fatty acids for mood disorders: Do they work? We really don't know.
Thread Tools
Show Printable Version
Search Thread
Advanced Search
August 3rd, 2018, 08:08 AM #1
David Baxter
View Profile
View Forum Posts
View Blog Entries
Visit Homepage
View Articles
View Forum Threads
Administrator
Join Date
Mar 2004
Location
Ottawa, Canada
Posts
34,709
Mentioned
11 Post(s)
Tagged
0 Thread(s)
Omega-3 fatty acids for mood disorders: Do they work? We really don't know.
Omega-3 fatty acids for mood disorders
by David Mischoulon, MD, PhD, Harvard Health Blog
August 3, 2018
Omega-3 fatty acids are found primarily in fish oil and certain marine algae. Because depression appears less common in nations where people eat large amounts of fish, scientists have investigated whether fish oils may prevent and/or treat depression and other mood disorders. Two omega-3 fatty acids — eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) — are thought to have the most potential to benefit people with mood disorders.
How might omega-3s improve depression?
Different mechanisms of action have been proposed. For example, omega-3s can easily travel through the brain cell membrane and interact with mood-related molecules inside the brain. They also have anti-inflammatory actions that may help relieve depression.
More than 30 clinical trials have tested different omega-3 preparations in people with depression. Most studies have used omega-3s as add-on therapy for people who are taking prescription antidepressants with limited or no benefit. Fewer studies have examined omega-3 therapy alone. Clinical trials typically use EPA alone or a combination of EPA plus DHA, at doses from 0.5 to 1 gram per day to 6 to 10 grams per day. To give some perspective, 1 gram per day would correspond to eating three salmon meals per week.
Meta-analyses (research that combines and analyzes results of multiple studies) generally suggest that the omega-3s are effective, but the findings are not unanimous because of variability between doses, ratios of EPA to DHA, and other study design issues. The most effective preparations appear to have at least 60% EPA relative to DHA. While DHA is thought to be less effective as an antidepressant, it may have protective effects against suicide. Recent work at Massachusetts General Hospital and Emory University suggests that depressed individuals who are overweight and have elevated inflammatory activity may be particularly good candidates for EPA treatment.
Children and adolescents with depression may also benefit from omega-3 supplementation. At Harvard, there is a large study underway examining whether omega-3 supplementation (alone or in combination with vitamin D) can prevent depression in healthy older adults.
Omega-3s for other mental health conditions
Omega-3s have been studied in various mood disorders, such as postpartum depression, with some promising results. In bipolar disorder (manic depression), the omega-3s may be most effective for the depressed phase rather than the manic phase of the illness. The omega-3s have also been proposed to alleviate or prevent other psychiatric conditions including schizophrenia, borderline personality disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, and attention deficit disorder. However, there is still not enough evidence to recommend the omega-3s in these conditions.
What dose of omega-3s is beneficial?
Doses for depression range from less than 1 g/day to 10 g/day, but most studies use doses between 1 and 2 g/day. In my practice, I recommend 1 to 2 g/day of an EPA+DHA combination, with at least 60% EPA, for major depression. I am more cautious in patients with bipolar depression, because the omega-3s may bring on mania, as can most antidepressants. In these individuals, I recommend using omega-3 cautiously, and preferably in combination with a prescription mood stabilizer.
Side effects and other safety considerations
Omega-3s are generally safe and well tolerated. Stomach upset and “fishy taste” have been the most common complaints, but they are less frequent now thanks to manufacturing methods that reduce impurities. Past concerns about omega-3s increasing the risk of bleeding have been largely disproven, but caution is still advised in people taking blood thinners or who are about to undergo surgery. As mentioned, caution is needed in people with bipolar disorder to prevent cycling to mania. Because omega-3s are important to brain development, and pregnancy depletes omega-3 in expectant mothers, supplementation should theoretically benefit pregnant women and their children. Fish consumption in pregnancy is supported by the FDA, but because we do not have long-term data on safety or optimal dosing of omega-3s in pregnancy, expectant mothers should consider omega-3 supplements judiciously.
The bottom line on omega-3s and mental health
Omega-3 fatty acids are promising natural treatments for mood disorders, but we need more research about how they work, how effective they really are, and their long-term safety before we can make conclusive recommendations for people managing mental health conditions or who wish to improve mood.
Dr. Mischoulon will present “Omega-3 Fatty Acids for Mood Disorders and Other Psychiatric Conditions” at the Osher Center for Integrative Medicine Grand Rounds at Brigham and Women’s Hospital on August 7th, 2018, from 8 to 9 AM. Members of the public are welcome to attend his talk.
Reference
The VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL-Depression Endpoint Prevention (VITAL-DEP): Rationale and design of a large-scale ancillary study evaluating vitamin D and marine omega-3 fatty acid supplements for prevention of late-life depression. Contemporary Clinical Trials, May 2018.
Reply With Quote
Quick Navigation Alternative Medicine - Alternative Therapies - Natural Remedies Top
Site Areas
Settings
Private Messages
Subscriptions
Who's Online
Search Forums
Forums Home
Forums
Welcome to Psychlinks Psychology Self-Help & Mental Health Support Forums
About Psychlinks
News & Announcements
Using This Site
Index to Topics
New Members: Introductions
General Support & Advice
** CRISIS RESOURCES **
Psychology, Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, and Health
Psychology, Psychiatry, and Mental Health
Positive Psychology
Therapy, Therapists, and Self-Help
Acceptance & Commitment Therapy :: ACT
Art Therapy
Client-Centered Therapy
Cognitive Behavior Therapy :: CBT
Dialectical Behavior Therapy :: DBT
Mindfulness, Relaxation, Meditation
Solution Focused Therapy
Coping Strategies
Medical Conditions, Health, and Mental Health
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Chronic Fatigue & Chronic Illness
Headaches and Migraine
Hormones and Mental Health
Health Warnings and Advisories
Health Care, Medicare, Disability, ODSP, SSI
Mental Health in the Workplace and on Campus
Attitudes, Myths, Stigma, and Raising Awareness
Mental Health in Movies and Television
Medical Myths, Denialism, Quackery, and Conspiracy Theories
Technology, The Internet, and The Media
Mental Health Information on the Internet
Technology, Health, and Mental Health
Online Counseling and Therapy
Health and Mental Health Forums
Internet Behavior
Cyberbullying and Cyberstalking
Computers, Technology, and the Internet
Computer and Internet Security
Computers and Forum Tech Support
Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety, Stress, and Worrying
Fears & Phobias
Panic Disorder
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder :: OCD
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder :: PTSD
Shyness & Social Anxiety
Mood Disorders & Grief
Depression, Dysthymia, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Child and Adolescent Depression
Suicide Risk with Antidepressants
Hormones and Depression
Seasonal Affective Disorder :: SAD
Bipolar Disorder, Cyclothymia
Suicide
Grief and Bereavement
Eating Disorders, Dieting, Healthy Eating, Body Image
Eating Disorders
Anorexia and Bulimia
Binge Eating, Emotional Eating, Compulsive Eating
Body Image and Body Dysmorphic Disorder
Dieting, Nutrition, Weight Management
Anger, Aggression, Abuse
Anger & Anger Management
Conflict and Conflict Resolution
Bullying, Harassment, Interpersonal Violence
See Cyberbullying and Cyberstalking
Abuse, Domestic Violence, Child Abuse
Surviving Abuse or Dysfunctional Families
Interpersonal Relationships
Relationships
Ending Relationships: Separation and Divorce
Gender Differences, Gender Role Stereotypes
Teens and Young Adults
Family and Friends
Self-Esteem, Self-Concept, Relating to Others
Introverts and Extraverts
The Highly Sensitive Person: HSP
Attachment Disorders, Abandonment Issues
Pets and Pet Therapy
Parenting, Children, Teens
Parenting
Parenting Children
Parenting Teens and Young Adults
Behavior Problems & Conduct Disorders
Pregnancy, Infertility, Newborns, Toddlers
Medication Risks in Pregnancy
Post-Partum Depression
Other Issues, Syndromes, and Disorders
ADHD: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
Learning Disabilities
Tourette Syndrome and Tourette Syndrome +
Memory and Memory Disorders
Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia
Sleep, Dreams, Insomnia
Self-Injury
Dissociative Disorders
Other Disorders
Schizophrenia and Autism Spectrum Disorders
Schizophrenia and Related Disorders
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Personality Disorders
Personality Disorders: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Research
Antisocial Personality Disorder & Psychopathy
Borderline Personality Disorder
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
Addictions, Compulsive Behaviors, Alcohol and Drug Use
Substance Use and Abuse :: Addictions
Marijuana, Cannabis
Medical Marijuana and CBD
Compulsive Behaviors & Behavioral Addictions
Medication Issues
Prescription Medications and OTC Drugs
Medications in Pregnancy
Medications and Suicide Risk
Medication Side-Effects
Discontining or Changing Medications
Medication Interactions
Alternative Medicine - Alternative Therapies - Natural Remedies
See also Medical Marijuana
See also Recreational Use of Marijuana
The Waiting Room
Suggestions and Feedback
Just for Fun
Just Chat
Items in the News
Newsletter Featured Threads [closed to posting]
« Previous Thread | Next Thread »
Bookmarks
Bookmarks
Twitter
Facebook
Google
Posting Permissions
You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
[VIDEO] code is On
HTML code is Off
Forum Rules
-- Psychlinks Original -- Metro Fluid -- Metro Teal Fluid -- Metro Green Fluid -- Metro Red Fluid -- Metro Mobile Blue ---- Metro Mobile Teal ---- Metro Mobile Green ---- Metro Mobile Red
Contact Us |
Home |
Privacy |
Terms of Service |
Top
All times are GMT -4. The time now is 06:14 AM.
Powered by vBulletin® Version 4.2.5
Copyright © 2019 vBulletin Solutions Inc. All rights reserved.
Forum Modifications By Marco Mamdouh
User Alert System provided by Advanced User Tagging (Pro) - vBulletin Mods & Addons Copyright © 2019 DragonByte Technologies Ltd.
Feedback Buttons provided by Advanced Post Thanks / Like (Lite) - vBulletin Mods & Addons Copyright © 2019 DragonByte Technologies Ltd.
Copyright © Psychlinks 2004-
vBulletin Metro Theme by PixelGoose Studio
Disclaimer: PsychLinks is not responsible for the content of posts or comments by forum members.
Additional Forum Web Design by PsychLinks
© All rights reserved.