Vitiligo - Natural Remedies for White Patches or Spots on the Skin - Earth Clinic®
Menu
Skip to right header navigation
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to secondary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
World's Largest Collection of Natural Cures
Home
Old Version
Shop
About
Who We Are
What People Say
Our Books
Help Us
Search
Close
Search Earth Clinic
Archive Site (Old Version)
Shop
Contact Us
Ailments
Remedies
Pets
Latest Posts
Help Us
Ted’s Remedies
About
Videos
Terms of Service
Returns
Shop
Remedies
All Remedies
Ted’s Remedies
Supplements
Herbs
Beauty Remedies
Children’s Remedies
Articles
World
Green
Ailments
Pets
Latest Posts
Contact Us
You are here: Home / Ailments / Vitiligo – Natural Remedies for White Patches or Spots on the Skin
Vitiligo – Natural Remedies for White Patches or Spots on the Skin
June 22, 2018 // by Earth Clinic Creative Team// 106 Comments
What is Vitiligo?
Vitiligo is a naturally occurring skin condition in which you will see white spots on skin in large swaths or isolated patches. These white patches result from a loss of melanin (the natural dye that gives our hair and skin their particular colors) in those particular skin cells. Vitiligo patches often expand over time, without treatment. Vitiligo symptoms also include greying or whitening of hair, including the eyelashes, and potentially lightening of color in your eye’s retina.
What causes vitiligo is uncertain – our melanocytes simply stop producing melanin, potentially as part of an immune disorder or due to oxidative stress – but exposure to the sun is something of a trigger, since exposed skin is more likely to whiten first. Allopathic treatments do exist, including corticosteroids and psuedocatalase, including a new formulation of psuedocatalase that was recently in the news as a potential cure for vitiligo and for grey hair. However, at this point there is officially no vitiligo cure, only treatment.
Home Remedies for Vitiligo
If oxidative stress is the cause of vitiligo, then natural antioxidants such as green tea, oregano, or other antioxidizing supplements may reduce the white spots on your skin. Additionally, there is some interest in gingko biloba as a potential natural treatment for vitiligo to slow its progression or even create regimentation.1
References:
1Effectiveness of oral Ginkgo biloba in treating limited, slowly spreading vitiligo
Average rating is: 4.9
Add New Post
Reader Interactions
Add a Post Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Location
Rate it: 5 4 3 2 1 0
* Earth Clinic, LLC Terms of Service agreement
* Earth Clinic, LLC Online Privacy Statement
* I am age 13 or older
By clicking "Post Comment" you agree to the terms of the Earth Clinic LLC service agreement and the privacy policy statement, and that you are 13 or older.
Don't subscribeAllReplies to my comments Notify me of follow-up comments to my post via e-mail. Note: you can also receive notifications to this thread without commenting.
Reviews From Our Readers
Dietary Changes
Er from Miami Fl
September 20, 2016 at 12:34 pm
For vitiligo: it can be reversed.
Look up Dr. Robert Morse-work on the Pituitary gland, detox is key, eating raw is key. Per Dr. Wallach clean up your diet, eliminate ALL gluten, take a combination of supplements to reverse any ailment. Dr. Bergman clean up diet, eat certain foods, detox, and do certain treatments like infrared sauna and others to reverse vitiligo. All three know that the body will heal it self given the right tools.
Heal from within and stop treating symptoms.
Reply to Er
Earam from India
June 7, 2017 at 1:25 pm
Vitiligo walo ko diet mai kya khana chahiye kya nhi or baki kya precouation rakhne chahiye or almond or aloe vera ka kse patches per use kar sakte hai please tell me bcoz I'm very worried this disease please help me
EC: The above contains Hindi...perhaps one of our contributors in India can translate. Thank you!
Reply to Earam
Art from California
June 8, 2017 at 11:16 am
This is what I got as a translation:
What is vitamin or what I do not know is that what precautions are used or almond or aloe vera can be used by the patches, please tell me bcoz I am very worried about this disease please help me
Reply to Art
Tina from Princeton
June 8, 2017 at 11:17 am
Here is the translation of the above message:
What kind of diet should vitiligo sufferers follow? What foods should they eat and what foods should they avoid? What other precautions should they take? Can they use almond or aloe vera patches? Please tell me because I'm very worried about this disease. Please help me.
Reply to Tina
Sandy from Naperville
November 10, 2017 at 11:44 am
to EC and other contributors,
following is the english translations for his hindi questions.
He is asking "what diet one should follow for the vitiligo problems. Do and donts. How to apply aloe vera and almond oil".
Reply to Sandy
Multiple Remedies
Sam from Los Angeles
November 1, 2015 at 9:06 am
I was diagnosed with vitiligo in June 2015. I had large white spots form around my eyes. Doctors said there was no cure, only to apply Protopic 0.1% to the lesions every day and see what happens. But after some research I found that protopic works most effectively when combined with the following vitamins: B12 (1000 mcg) – once a day, B Complex (50 mg) – once a day, Zinc (100 mg) – once a day.
Together with anti-oxidants like raw spinach a few times a week. I make spinach smoothies with avocado, cucumbers, apple, banana and apple juice. After 3 months my pigmentation is almost fully back around my eyes. Always give whatever you are trying 3 months as vitiligo seems to work in that cycle.
Diet is certainly a big part of the change, as well as reducing oxidative stress in your body. Eat more alkaline than acidic foods. And some sunlight exposure is not a risk as many say. The protopic with some sunlight exposure a day works best. Also, try to reduce your day to day stress levels.
A great book for more cure suggestions is ‘My victory against Vitilio’ by Xichao Mo. Don’t believe it cannot be cured! With some patience and finding out what works for you, it is possible. This is what is working for me…
Reply to Sam
Milly from Los Angeles
July 6, 2016 at 1:23 pm
I am so happy for you that you were able to reverse the white patches on your face. I also believe that there is always a cure but we just have to figure it out.
God bless you and I hope they never return. ** so helpful of you to share your pictures.
Reply to Milly
Sam from Los Angeles
December 6, 2016 at 7:51 pm
Thank you so much Milly. Yes I believe there is always a cure and we should never give up. God bless you too!
Reply to Sam
Mink from Indonesia
January 15, 2017 at 12:05 pm
How did your recovery go? has it relapsed?
Reply to Mink
Sam from Los Angeles
September 19, 2018 at 12:08 am
Hi Mink. Sometimes some small spots appear again. But then I try to rebalance my diet, meditate to relax my thyroid glands, and continue the treatment regime I did, and they soon fill in again. Good luck and keep it up!
Reply to Sam
Almond Oil and Aloe Vera
Elizabeh from Netherlands
September 22, 2015 at 8:39 pm
For Vitiligo: Aloe vera and or Almond oil – I have dropped all chemical products for my skin and used these. Specially on my hands and surprisingly the white spots have started disappearing. Exactly up unto the point where my long sleeve shirt starts.
Reply to Elizabeh
John from Maryland
October 14, 2015 at 9:06 am
How long have you been used the vera and almond oil?
Reply to John
Maria from Puerto Rico
October 21, 2015 at 6:09 pm
If you noticed repigmentation using vitamins and minerals (minerals are very important in this treatment), you cannot discountinue taking them ever. You can do small pauses every few months but never discontinue it. If you need supplements for repigmentation that means that your body is not extracting all the nutrients from your food or you are not eating properly. Any which way, you cannot leave the supplementation.
Reply to Maria
Shweta from Delhi, India
October 28, 2015 at 10:48 am
Hi, can you please tell me the exact procedure how you applied aloe Vera and almond oil..do we have to mix them together or use it seperately..kindly help
Reply to Shweta
Samrin from Saudi Arabia
November 8, 2015 at 10:05 pm
Plz tell in details, and from how many months u using almond oil. Plz reply
Reply to Samrin
Mark from Philippines
February 7, 2016 at 2:29 pm
I am also using aloe vera for my white spots.I've been using it for a year now and my spots seems to get smaller and some are almost re-pigmented.. My spots are located on my neck and shoulder. On first months I have also tried taking ginkgo biloba vitamin b12 and b complex. I think it helps in stopping the spread of my vitiligo. Now I am only using the aloe vera and taking multi vitamins and mineral supplement.
Reply to Mark
Mariaan from Bloemfontein, Free State, South Africa
July 21, 2016 at 11:48 am
I have also white patches on my legs and arms, skin specialist said that it is caused by the sun, must use sun cream when working in the sun. Can you please tell me more about the aloe vera and almond oil, must it be mixed together or applied separately on the patches.
Would appreciate to hear from you.
Regards, Mariaan
Reply to Mariaan
Natalie from South Africa
August 23, 2016 at 12:52 pm
Do you use fresh aloe vera gel or over the counter?
Reply to Natalie
Hari Gopaldas from Usa
June 21, 2017 at 2:02 pm
Can you please suggest how and when to apply aloe vera and Almond oil. If there is something that I should avoid eating, also if it is ok to stay in the sun for 10 – 15 minutes. I would really appreciate your feed back.
Thanks.
Reply to Hari
Sandy from Naperville
November 10, 2017 at 11:44 am
Maria, can you please explain, what kind of mineral one should take?Waiting for your reply eagerly.
Thank you.
Reply to Sandy
Coconut Oil
Jules from Wakefield, West Yorkshire
August 5, 2014 at 9:28 am
Hi, Could anyone please tell me if they have tried coconut oil on patches of vitiligo with some success? and if so how long has it taken to see some improvement?
Many thanks
Reply to Jules
Parsley from Nevada, US
January 6, 2015 at 8:59 pm
I am currently using coconut oil (organic cold pressed virgin), rubbing it all over my body after my morning & evening showers. Then I rub in oregano oil – in a base of olive oil. It must be diluted or you will burn your skin. The kind I use, doesn't hurt at all. Google it and I'm sure you'll find it. I bought mine at whole foods market.
Basically I rub in 4 drops on each arm, then 4 drops on each thigh, 4 drop on each calf, etc. It's been my 5th day now, and all these hard little red bumps are appearing. Whatever I got is being killed. At night I itch like crazy- so I know it's working. I'm excited! The white spots seem to be less white, I'm sure I'll see more improvement as I continue this.
I do the coconut oil and diluted oregano oil 2 times per day. I take 2 showers a day, so it works out for me.
Reply to Parsley
Parsley from Nevada, US
January 8, 2015 at 10:22 am
I forgot to mention that I wash my skin with black soap, it kills skin parasites.
Reply to Parsley
Shaunnie from Ny
September 9, 2015 at 5:42 pm
Hello…I'm curious to know if anyone has used virgin coconut oil, and seen results with vitiligo (white patches)?
Reply to Shaunnie
Star from Nevada, Usa
October 13, 2015 at 10:45 am
Parsley, did you see anymore changes in your skin?
Reply to Star
Tink from Nc
October 13, 2016 at 9:06 am
I used once everyday in the morning and little bit sun afterwards.. plus b12, folic acid, men's multivitamin, vitamin c and d3
Reply to Tink
Multiple Remedies
Dj from Cleveland, Oh
July 14, 2014 at 6:47 pm
I wanted to share my experience in case it helps someone else. I used to hike a lot and was diagnosed with Lyme disease years ago. I never fully recovered, and later severe cellular damage was found on Spectracell tests. Then I recently discovered in a peer-reviewed paper I read that Morgellons, Lyme disease, and at least 5 other pathogens and parasites are all co-infecting and not commonly found in urine and stool tests, but in the blood, organs, deep tissue and difficult to detect or treat by traditional methods.
So I started using natural anti-parasitics (like tea tree and clove oil, neem soap, pine tar shampoo, drinking teas that are anti-parasitic from herbal plants I grow, etc.), but most helpful was simply bathing in a cup or two of natural Borax in very hot water, submerging the entire body except my eyes (and I put some drops of black tea in my eyes to kill anything there – the floaters you may see when you close your eyes which are gone now. It stings for a moment but is harmless). Since boron is naturally part of your cells you can't really have an allergic reaction, but initially the skin can turn red from the heat and from parasites dying so I drank a couple glasses of cold water afterwards.
I started improving immediately and over a period of months my vitiligo went away in addition to many of my other symptoms. I took photos as it progressed. I believe from what the journal paper found that since these parasites were observed to consume keratin cells and collagen cells (that make up Morgellon's fibers), as well as myelin sheath that surrounds nerve cells, maybe these parasites also consume the cells that produce color in our skin. Anyways, all of my symptoms continue to improve from having more energy to better skin, gray hair went away, migraine headaches are gone, I sleep better, seem to be less hungry, no more chemical sensitivity (as I believe the parasites were the ones reacting to the chemical that kills them), etc. The improvement is amazing and I can only assume it is because my cells are no longer being damaged or to a lesser degree – I will continue to use these treatments indefinitely at a maintenance dose, and hope others will find the same success as I did.
Reply to Dj
Meeya from Sunnyvale, Ca
July 16, 2014 at 1:16 am
This is very interesting! Thank you for sharing. May I ask, how often did you take these baths? How long did you stay in the bath each time? And how long / or how many baths until you noticed it was having an effect? And do you still take "maintenance" baths? Thanks!
Reply to Meeya
Laur from Orlando, Fl
August 11, 2014 at 10:30 pm
I'm suffering through vitiligo. Can you tell me exactly the soap brand and where to buy the natural borax and herbal supplement to rid of parasites. God bless you – glad you're doing better and there is hope for all of us that have this disease that doctors don't know about. Thank you…
Reply to Laur
Geri from Edmonton, Ab
November 15, 2014 at 9:08 pm
DJ, Thank you for the information about borax. For those looking for borax in the US and Canada, it's in the laundry section of your supermarket — yes the 20 Mule Team stuff is 99.5% pure borax mineral (it even states this on the box). It isn't soap although it tastes a bit soapy because of it alkalinity). I have it at home because I'm successfully treating my mother's arthritis with it (but that's for another post). I suspected a pathogen in my 17 y.o. son's vitiligo because the start of his condition coincided with him hanging out with friends who also have it. And if coconut oil helps then it's likely because of its lauric acid content which has anti-fungal and anti-bacterial properties. His dermatologist prescribed Protopic which is about $90 per tube and linked to cancer (in some cases in as little as 21 days of starting it) so we're not interested in trying it. He also has KP which I wasn't aware might be a fungus. I am definitely going to try borax baths. After reading the Indian treatment taking 300 – 400 days I think that vitiligo like Leprosy might just take a long time to treat. Blessings, Geri
Reply to Geri
Frances from Texas, US
November 16, 2014 at 11:32 am
Geri – If you suspect your son “caught” it from friends who have it, you might want to take him to another dermatologist because it may be tinea versicolor, a common skin yeast overgrowth, especially among teens. It's kind of like an athelete's foot type condition, and is easily cured by antifungal creams, or even just applying dandruff shampoo.
Your dermatologist should have done a test where they scrape some cells and look at them to determine whether it's yeast or vitiligo.
Reply to Frances
Lou from Tyler, Tx
April 20, 2015 at 12:09 pm
Erick Barrios on You Tube has the cure for vitiligo–at least it's working for him! He is using Ginkgo Biloba, Beta Carotene, St. John's Wort and Folic acid. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fAhhCnA4GCU
Reply to Lou
James from Boston, Ma.
October 2, 2015 at 3:47 pm
The possible Borox solution is intriguing. How often do you take these baths, DJ? Every day?
Thanks for sharing your experience.
Reply to James
Kapil from Melbourne
October 13, 2015 at 8:34 am
My son 4 yrs old suffering from vitiligo , can we use boron for him and how? Thanks in advance.
Reply to Kapil
Coconut Oil and Diet
Ilovenature from San Leandro, Ca
July 14, 2014 at 8:37 am
My daughter was diagnosed with vitiligo at the age of 2 1/2 and was also prescribed a steroid ointment. She has it on her left eyelid and some of her lashes are white. I tried the ointment for about 2 weeks and stopped. After doing tons of research, I have changed her diet to 80% gluten free, give her a natural multi-vitamin supplement and also have her wear a copper bracelet. I began rubbing 99% Aloe Vera on her vitiligo area in January 2014, but all I would notice was that her skin would get really red. So after more internet research, I began applying Extra Virgin Coconut Oil in the morning and at night in April of 2014. In mid June 2014, I noticed she already began to have a area of repigmentation on her eye. I'm continuing to rub the coconut oil on her eye 2-3 times a day. I think it has a lot to do with diet, eating more natural foods, but I really believe the coconut oil is causing the repigmenation.
Reply to Ilovenature
Megha from Los Angeles
May 19, 2015 at 6:56 am
Hi, my daughter has a patch in her left eye lid
We took her to doctor and he said its vitiligo and no cure just gave a craem elidel have been applying it since a week. Would love to here more from you about treatment you have been doing to your daughter. Thanks, Megha
Reply to Megha
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 12, 2015 at 9:38 am
I read that Elidel causes cancer. Be careful.
Reply to Lou
Lukoskin
Ed2010 from Canada
July 9, 2014 at 11:49 am
New herbal medicine found for Vitiligo or Leukoderma.
Good News, the research was done by the Department of Research and Defence Organization in India – DRDO. not by anyother pharma.
DRDO – is the top organization of the Indian Government
The product name is Lukoskin.
I am giving the link of the Indian National Daily
http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lukoskin-to-rescue-persons-living-with-vitiligo/article3608287.ece
The protocol of treatment is very lengthy taking internally and applying externally for 300 – 400 days.
It is even distributed free in some government Siddha and Ayurvedha Hospitals.
In south India, there are Unani, Siddha, Ayurveda Government Hopitals where the medicines and treatments are free, it is because of the Socialist Regime during the 1950's.
Hope this helps
Good Health
Reply to Ed2010
Ravi from Tamilnadu, India
January 16, 2015 at 10:19 am
Dear All,
Lukoskin I am taking for the past one month orally and also the ointment along with karbogi tablet and karisala tablet and the legiyum prescribed by sidha doctor. After applying the ointment I expose the white patches for sun light for 5 to 10 minutes depending upon the convenience.Within a month the white patch (2 yrs old) turned as normal and matching with the old skin finding difficult to locate the white patch for applying ointment. I do follow the advise on foods.
1.no to nonveg food, drinking water from the copper vessel, no citric food and by and large I follow the advise on food.
Really if you want a quick result do pranayama yoga along with lukoskin. For pranayamam yoga pl browse on youtube for pranayama in english + baba ramdev.
Lukoskin is the medicine developed by Department of Defence research organisation India based on the traditional Indian medicinal system. It's a Indian Govt organisation and the price is also very affordable.
I wish everybody to recover from Lucodermo completely.
Regards, Ravi.
Reply to Ravi
Sin from Hyderabad
July 15, 2015 at 5:25 pm
Hello Ravi, I would like to know which hospital did you go, I mean is it sidha government hospital in Tambaram? Please do reply!
Reply to Sin
Shweta from Dekhi
July 19, 2018 at 1:41 pm
Hi Ravi, can you please contact me. I would like to know more about the treatment.
Reply to Shweta
Oil of Oregano
Juliana from Washington, NJ
March 27, 2014 at 2:39 pm
I recommend "Oil of Oregano". I had my son use it for his vitiligo and it worked like a champ. It's been a year since, and there is no recurrance. It must be rubbed on the spot a number of times a day until it is gone. It will not happen overnight.. There must be consistency. My son used it about 4-5 times a day for 3 mths. This product is good to keep in your medicine cabinet for rashes, burns, bruises, abrasions ect. This is just a recommendation. Although I am a nurse, I am not a doctor.
Good health to you
Reply to Juliana
Marcus from Indiana, US
May 14, 2014 at 11:45 am
So, how long did your son use the Oregano Oil? How long was it before there was a regeneration of color?
Reply to Marcus
Dexter from Indiana, US
May 27, 2014 at 2:30 pm
Re: Oil of Oregano for Vitiligo. Did your son use an ointment or take something orally? What was the exact name of the product. Thanks.
Reply to Dexter
Pam from California
June 15, 2014 at 12:16 pm
Did you dilute the oil of oregano before you applied it to your son's skin for vitiligo?
Reply to Pam
Kay from Georgia, US
July 17, 2014 at 11:44 am
Nothing, and I mean nothing, not even the e-coli bacteria will grow in oregano. I open the capsules and put about 13 in a pint or two of water. I spray it on the rain rot (fungus) that my horses get. It is absolutely fungus free the next day. I take it as a vitamin supplement too. I have vitiligo also and will be trying all of this. A copy of this article is going to my doctor
Reply to Kay
Timh from KY
July 17, 2014 at 2:04 pm
Kay: Naturopathic Physicians (ND’s) routinely prescribe Oregano as well as many other herbs and natural remedies for their patients, on-the-other-hand, Medical Doctors (MD’s) prescribe synthetic antibiotics.
Your discovery of this natural remedy is a result of you taking personal responsibility for your health.
Reply to Timh
Laur from Orlando, Fl
August 11, 2014 at 10:32 pm
For vitiligo, did you dilute the oil of oregano with another oil or you just split. And oregano oil? Thank you..
Reply to Laur
Sm from North Wales
September 29, 2014 at 8:04 pm
Did you dilute the oil or applied 100% oregano oil directly on to the skin? The more I read about candida and yeast abundance, the more I feel it is yeast abundance due to high sugars and less protein diet that are causing these autoimmune diseases. And once you have an aggressive disease, we have to aggressively detox ourselves from this yeast and bring it to an acceptable levels. When you come that far, even diet alone may not reverse the signs that are called diseases in modern medicines. Here comes the holistic physicians which are not covered by insurances. Three months is what I am reading a very standard timeframe across websites with this approach.
Reply to Sm
Aloe Vera, Supplements
Lola from South Florida
March 13, 2014 at 7:51 am
My daughter is 17 years old and she had white spots on her elbows that seemed to be getting larger so we went to a dermotogist and she said it appeared to be vitiligo. My daughter was devastated when we left because the doctor prescribed a steriod cream and said pretty much if this doesn't work there isn't much else we can do. We came home and I lived on the computer every night searching for something that would help. The steriod cream irritated her skin after 2 weeks so we had to stop. At that time I put together my own regime and I will say it has been 5 months now and her skin is almost fully repigmented. Of course it will probably take a few more months but at least there is significant progress. I even called the doctor to try and tell them I would like her to know what we are doing so maybe she could tell other patients but she never called us back. So as they say every man for himself…I do believe it is a lack of certain vitamin. from what I have read it will not be cured but as long as you keep a watch on your body you can catch the spots when they start to reappear and continue the vitamins. My daughter takes a liquid Aloe Vera, Vitamin B-12, Ginko Biloba, folic Acid, C complex. She also rubs the aloe Vera plant on the spots 1 -2 times a day. I have read about the coconut oil and the copper as well but have not tried it. We figured if these things are working don't change it. We live in South Florida and I do want to locate a doctor that is very familiatsh with Vitilio and get there input. We do plan to discountine vitamins once she is fully repigmented, but this is why I would like to talk to a doctor.
Reply to Lola
Kb from New York, US
June 4, 2014 at 8:09 am
Can you tell me the amounts of vitamins your daughter was taking. How many a day ? Thanks
Reply to Kb
Jenni from Wisconsin
July 28, 2014 at 10:00 pm
Hello. I just came across ur blog and found it very interesting and informative. I was just diagnosed myself with vitiligo and very much believe in the all natural remidies and was wondering how ur daughter was doing currently. Thank u so much for ur story as it gave me hope that their is hope. I am a 33 year married woman with 3 kids so any help or reply would be so much appreciated!
Reply to Jenni
Art from Usa
July 31, 2014 at 7:41 am
In reply to Jenni from Wisconsin , According to the following study, it appears that vitamin D might be worth considering as part of an anti-vitiligo protocol.This was a very high dose study and should only be done under your doctors approval and supervision.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3897595/
Art
Reply to Art
Lola from South Florida, US
October 16, 2014 at 1:31 pm
We are still taking the vitamins, however we have discontinued the Ginko Biloba as of now. Around April or so the freckling had stopped. We still continued the vitamins including the G.B. In the summer we had visited a homeopath doctor. He had some blood tests run and there were several food intolerances and a high yeast in her body. We have done a gut and liver detox. She is on probiotics and gluten, diary free diet. She is showing signs of repigmentation. It is a slow process but at least it is a sign. One of her spots before stating the vitamin regime was maybe the size of a half dollar. It had gone down to an oval shape maybe 3/4 of an inch. It is now maybe 1/2 inch wide to maybe a little over an inch long. I do believe certain people do not absorb vitamins the way we think. I would also like to have her do a test on how her body absorbs vitamins. B12 is something alot of people don't absorb. She takes B-12 5000 mcg-sublingual, c-1000 complex, Folic Acid 800mcg and Aloe Vera water.
Reply to Lola
Indi from New Jersey, US
October 28, 2014 at 6:27 pm
what type of Dr. did you see to get the dosages for the vitamins?
Thanks so much for sharing your story.
Reply to Indi
Luz from Kent
May 24, 2015 at 4:41 am
Hi, my daughter developed white patches on her face. Doctor diagnosed her with vitiligo. I am exited to read that your daughters skin improved. The liquid aloe Vera, do you make it or you buy it?
Reply to Luz
Katie from Psl Florida
June 9, 2015 at 10:45 pm
Hi I also live in south florida and my daughter has vitiligo and I'm so sad for her can you please tell me which vitamins you use and the dosage. Thanks Katie
Reply to Katie
Lynn from San Diego, Ca
June 13, 2015 at 9:25 am
Hi I know this is an old post but can you tell me if you're currently still using this remedy. My son's Dr doesn't have any insight to herbal treatments and my son has been using steroid creams and photo therapy for years. Looking for other options.
Reply to Lynn
Becky from Sacramento, Ca
July 13, 2015 at 7:52 am
Hi… I was just wondering how long it took your daughter to recover her pigmentation?
Reply to Becky
Jenny from Davie, Fl
August 16, 2015 at 6:31 pm
Curious if you ever found a good Dr. in south Florida?
Reply to Jenny
Katie from South Florida
August 18, 2015 at 2:16 pm
I see quite a few people from South Florida here. I wonder if it's the water here or if its heat that's a trigger?
Reply to Katie
Shannon from South Florida
September 6, 2015 at 8:05 pm
I am also from south Florida and have vitiligo. Which homeopathic doctor are you seeing? I have hashimotos also which can be related to vitiligo. I am gluten free and that has helped a lot. I have read a lot about the importance of being gluten, dairy, sugar, soy free.
Reply to Shannon
Rajiv Gupta from United Arab Emirates
November 10, 2015 at 6:52 pm
Hi Dear Lola, I know this is an old post but can you tell me if you're currently still using this remedy. My son's who is 08 years old has been diagnosed with vitiligo and the white mark is spreading quite rapidly. Also, If any parents are reading my post if they can suggest me some good and trusted remedy or doctor (Ayurvedic, as some said it will cure from root level) in India. Please advise and suggest. Thanks in advance.
Reply to Rajiv
Faye from Uk
May 16, 2016 at 1:50 pm
I just came back from my second app with a vitiligo specialist in London, he has now told me he is almost certain its vitiligo my baby boy (4months) is suffering with, he told me in his 23years of experience he has never seen it in a baby this age, which is why he can't be certain.
He has 3 patches, 1 on hes neck, groin and inside of hes elbow…
As you all will know I'm absolutely gutted, my mum has had vitiligo since she was 14 so I know what his life will mean…
Came across these posts and you have all given me hope. Please can you all give me your advice on trying to treat this, I came straight home from the hospital and smothered him in extra virgin natural coconut oil – I want to know more about people experiences with the aloe vera and almond??
Reply to Faye
Art from California
May 17, 2016 at 10:36 am
Faye (UK),
Here is a recent abstract (2016) as well as a link to the full study about the use of low dose aspirin as a potential treatment for vitiligo that you can discuss with your doctor. This is a human study that showed effectiveness in the test subjects.
Ted has previously mentioned that taking aspirin dissolved in water can help to offset the stomach issues that can occur in some people who use aspirin for extended periods and this also may be worth mentioning to your doctor if he thinks this may be a possible treatment for your baby. Obviously it would have to be a very low dose for a 4 month old or perhaps your doctor can have a topical aspirin cream compounded for your baby for direct application to the depigmented areas. In any case it won't hurt to discuss this study with your doctor…….even if for only future use when your baby is older. It's always nice to have a viable alternate plan!
This is the abstract below and below that is the link to the full study.
Art
……………………………………………………..
J Cell Mol Med. 2016 Mar 10. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.12812. [Epub ahead of print]
Aspirin induces Nrf2-mediated transcriptional activation of haem oxygenase-1 in protection of human melanocytes from H2 O2 -induced oxidative stress.
Jian Z1, Tang L1, Yi X1, Liu B1, Zhang Q1, Zhu G1, Wang G1, Gao T1, Li C1.
Author information
Abstract
The removal of hydrogen peroxide (H2 O2 ) by antioxidants has been proven to be beneficial to patients with vitiligo. Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid, ASA) has antioxidant activity and has great preventive and therapeutical effect in many oxidative stress-relevant diseases. Whether ASA can protect human melanocytes against oxidative stress needs to be further studied. Here, we investigated the potential protective effect and mechanisms of ASA against H2 O2 -induced oxidative injury in human melanocytes. Human melanocytes were pre-treated with different concentrations of ASA, followed by exposure to 1.0 mM H2 O2 . Cell apoptosis, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were evaluated by flow cytometry, and cell viability was determined by an Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. Total and phosphorylated NRF2 expression, NRF2 nuclear translocation and antioxidant response element (ARE) transcriptional activity were assayed with or without Nrf2-siRNA transfection to investigate the possible molecular mechanisms. Concomitant with an increase in viability, pre-treatment of 10-90 μmol/l ASA resulted in decreased rate of apoptotic cells, lactate dehydrogenase release and intracellular ROS levels in primary human melanocytes. Furthermore, we found ASA dramatically induced NRF2 nuclear translocation, enhanced ARE-luciferase activity, increased both p- NRF2 and total NRF2 levels, and induced the expression of haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in human melanocytes. In addition, knockdown of Nrf2 expression or pharmacological inhibition of HO-1 abrogated the protective action of ASA on melanocytes against H2 O2 -induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis. These results suggest that ASA protects human melanocytes against H2 O2 -induced oxidative stress via Nrf2-driven transcriptional activation of HO-1.
© 2016 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.
Full study link:
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/enhanced/doi/10.1111/jcmm.12812
Reply to Art
Amy from Las Vegas, Nv
June 17, 2016 at 7:38 pm
Hi Lola, It's been more than a year since your post. How is your daughter's vitiligo now? Has she stopped taking medication? I'm curious as to the efficacy of the vitamin treatments. Thanks!
Reply to Amy
Pa from Mo
August 20, 2016 at 11:31 pm
For vitiligo, my dr has me on 5000 mcg vit d and b12 shots.
Reply to Pa
Anne from Nevada
August 31, 2016 at 11:08 am
I would suggest that you make pure almond milk for your baby. Buy organic almonds, blanch them in boiling hot water for a minute to remove the brown outer skin. Put them in the Blender with Purified/Distilled water. Add 1/4 tsp PURE Almond Oil (Organic unrefined for cooking) in with the Almonds. 1/2 cup of almonds to a quart of water. Blend it on liquify, STRAIN IT THROUGH THE SMALLEST SIEVE/STRAINER OR A COFFEE STRAINER. POUR IT INTO A STERILE BOTTLE, REFRIGERATE. HEAT ALMOND MILK FOR BABY LIKE YOU WOULD HEAT REGULAR FORMULA.
I raised my son on Almond Milk and juices because he had over 250 Allergies. The doctors did not know what to do for him..I would not give him the Soy Formula after I found out that it is not good for little boy babies. My son is an adult over 30 and is HEALTHY, THANK OUR LORD IN HEAVEN.
THIS SHOULD DO THE JOB. Babies need the oil to keep from being constipated.
Reply to Anne
Linda from Nashville
October 17, 2016 at 12:27 pm
Hello there… I use to live in Central Florida and caught what I believe was Vitiligo. I was told that it was a fungus that came from the ground and perhaps related to areas where there is a lot of livestock, such as horses. I used an anti-dandruff shampoo on it and it went away. I scrubbed the area really well and covered it with the anti-dandruff shampoo and let dry. It stung. I can't remember how long I did this for but it seemed to kill and the pigment returned. I hope that helps…
Reply to Linda
Mj from Texas
January 21, 2017 at 12:34 pm
Linda, you had Tinea versicolor which also appears as small spots and lighting of the skin. Pigmentation is effected but spot variation and texture of skin with Tinea Versicolor are very different from Vitiligo.
Reply to Mj
Ted's Remedies
Sharon from Bellmore, N.y.
June 3, 2012 at 10:52 pm
Hi, thanks for a wonderful website. I was wondering has any one had success with Teds suggested vitiligo treatment ( borax taken topically and orally).
Also is Ted still available ? I emailed him but no response. thanks, sharon
Reply to Sharon
Marc from Miami, Fl
November 28, 2012 at 3:43 pm
I wonder if these remedies work as well, so many people seem to have the remedy for Vitiligo. So far i’ve heard the cure is:
UVB Light, Hydrogen Peroxide, Skin Steroid Creams, Coconut Oil, Noni Fruit, Borax, B12, Vitamin C, Vitamin B, Baking Soda, Chaana beans, Astragulus, White Atractylodes, Peony, Ginko, folic acid, Etc….
The list goes on and on, but has anyone really been cured?
Reply to Marc
Nancy from Weber City, Va
March 7, 2013 at 8:45 am
I have white due scapes and sores, when it healed, it left white spot. Help!!!
Reply to Nancy
Hydrogen Peroxide and Borax
Cassandra from Halifax, Ns
September 4, 2011 at 10:22 am
I have Vitiligo & have been trying his recipe for curing it using borax and hydrogen peroxide. Since I know KP is more often than not a parasitic condition, and I know the mentioned chemical combo is used on dogs and cats for demodex mite infestation, Ive applied the solution to the sides of my face and backs of my arms each night before bed. I dont rinse it off. So far it has been extremely effective! Not much has happened with the Vitiligo spot, but I will keep you posted on both!
P.S I also drink 500ml of hot water and ACV every morning upon rising.
Reply to Cassandra
Delfina from UAE
September 27, 2013 at 8:00 am
Is this effective? My daughter has vitiligo for 6 years located at the neck and now its at the side of her face. Nothing cures it. Any suggestion will be much appreciated. Thanks a lot.
Reply to Delfina
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 12, 2015 at 9:38 am
I ran across a study that claims hydrogen peroxide precedes the immune response and that's what kills the melanocytes. I don't think I would try hydrogen peroxide. Look it up.
Reply to Lou
General Feedback
Mother Earth from Ks, Us
May 14, 2010 at 2:40 pm
“There may be a genetic connection between the skin condition Vitiligo and other autoimmune diseases, including autoimmune thyroid conditions such as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Graves’ disease.
Vitiligo is highly associated with other autoimmune diseases, including thyroid disease , pernicious anemia, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, lupus Addison’s disease, and adult-onset autoimmune diabetes.”
This info is from the new England Journal of Medicine March 22, 2007.
EC: Link to the abstract: http://content.nejm.org/cgi/content/abstract/356/12/1216
Reply to Mother
Lou from Tyler, Tx
November 7, 2012 at 10:51 pm
It is now believed to be linked to gluten intolerance and/or celiac’s disease.
Reply to Lou
Lou from Tyler, Tx
June 14, 2016 at 11:31 pm
Vitiligo can also be triggered by a nickel allergy. Certain foods contain nickel. Research nickel-free diet.
Reply to Lou
Lou from Tyler, Tx
July 14, 2016 at 7:29 pm
Just got off a webinar with Dr. Josh Axe on essential oils. I searched on essential oils and vitiligo. One person cured it with myrrh and there is a paper out there with an extensive study where they cured it with lotus flower essential oil. Interesting!
Reply to Lou
Coconut Oil
Clarece from Norton, Oh, USA
November 5, 2009 at 12:08 am
I have had small white patches on my hands and arms for several years, and over the last year they have gotten much larger. None of the home remedies I tried seemd to work, so I looked at the ingredients in the expensive herbal vitiligo cure formulas and noticed that they all contained the same base ingredient of coconut oil.
I purchased some virgin coconut oil and have been rubbing it into the white areas every morning and before bed every night for the past three weeks, and the areas are all turning pink and filling in.
Reply to Clarece
Dolly from West Des Moines, Ia
July 7, 2012 at 9:58 pm
Did it cure it eventually?
Reply to Dolly
Nooni from Karlstad
May 23, 2013 at 4:52 pm
Did you see some results or were the white patches completely filled in after 3 weeks??
Reply to Nooni
Prachi from India
June 12, 2013 at 9:28 am
Apply the same oil and go for sunbath. That will also help you do the same thing. I was suffering and has just rid off and I have studied about it so will advice you to go with both the remedies and take the sunbath only at the affectd area. Just for 10 mins daily and avoid have bicarbonate stuffs and include juices in your diet.
Reply to Prachi
Chad from South Africa
March 2, 2014 at 8:35 am
Does it work?
Reply to Chad
Jules from West Yorkshire
July 28, 2014 at 3:16 pm
Hi could anyone tell me if they have used pure coconut oil for vitiligo patches? Many thanks
Reply to Jules
Yash from Adityapur , Jamshedpur
August 3, 2015 at 8:12 am
Can you please be more specific, which coconut oil to use. Please send me the name or the link or something. And is it equally effective on lips because vitiligo has started to come on the corner of my lips too. Please reply back. Thank you!
Reply to Yash
Ted's Remedies
Karen from NY, New York
July 22, 2009 at 9:56 am
Hello Ted and Earth Clinic, My son was also diagnose with this condition and the doctor said it was caused by fungus. My son was prescribed Miconazolnitraat which I am hesitant to use as he is 4 years old and the condition is on his face.
So far the cures that I have tried on EC have helped my family. However I have a question. Janet from NJ asked for a natural cure for her 10 year old daughter. You mentioned borax, H202 and baking soda. I have also noticed that baking soda is used with ACV and lemon juice. Why are these chemically made items considered and used in natural cures? I do not have specific doubts but just curious as i would not initially associate any of these item with a natural cure.
Your response will be greatly appreciated.
Thank you. Karen
Reply to Karen
Veronica from New York, Usa
September 2, 2009 at 8:16 am
I have a question for karen regarding her son’s vitiligo diagnosis of being a fungus. can you please tell me how the doctor came about with this diagnosis and if he did any type of blood test? I have a 10 yr old daughter and her doctor has not done anything but keep on prescribing meds that have not worked and has not said anything about possible fungus. Your feedback is greatly appreciate it. I will only try on her natural remedies as i dont want to keep on putting creams on. anyone please let me know
Reply to Veronica
Nita from Somerset, Ky
November 2, 2009 at 9:25 am
My daughter also has this condition and her doctor said it is tinea versicolor-a skin fungus. If the hair growing in the white patches still has color then the pigment isn’t gone. We rub virgin coconut oil on the white patches and are now seeing normal skin color returning! Hope this helps.
Reply to Nita
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 16, 2011 at 12:12 am
Not sure if this will work for everyone, but I was reading about how to get shower tiles clean (caused by mold/fungus) and I read that if you mix lemon dishwashing liquid, vinegar and hot water together it will clean a shower. So, I decided to try it on my vitiligo. I made up a batch in a large plastic bowl. I used a loofah and scrubbed the darker areas. The skin became tacky (like the fungus was dissolving). Then I took a normal shower with citrus lime soap and shower gel. It seems to make the darker skin lighter. I had an ER physician comment on how good it looks last week! My skin feels softer too. I read that you need to use clean washcloths instead of scrubbies on the areas when you shower to prevent passing the fungus around. The idea is to loofah away the fungus and lather up with clean wash cloths. Rinse away!
Another idea is to try an anti-fungal bath.
ANTI-FUNGAL BATH
Lavender: 4 drops
Geranium: 1 drop
Tea Tree: 1 drop
Fill your bath tub, then add the essential oils. Add 1 – 2 cups of sea salts, mix well. Soak for a minimum of 20 minutes. Be sure to dry your skin well, especially between your toes and other cracks, where moisture can be trapped. (If you have a prescribed medication, apply after you are completely dry.)
I would follow up with virgin coconut oil or a lotion containing vitamins AC&E and COQ10. At least it will improve skin texture.
Reply to Lou
Francisca from Michelbach-le-bas, Alsace, France
August 16, 2011 at 11:10 am
Hi Lou, I don’t really have vitiligo but I have more and more white stains on my skin (they don’t join to form a big patch though) and would love to get rid of them but I don’t think that it would work by getting my normal, darker color away but by getting the white stains to tan again or to get a normal color again so I suppose your idea wouldn’t work on me? Because if I try to get rid of the brownish skin around the white patches I will have a whiter skin all over my legs while I am a tanned Southern European.
Reply to Francisca
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 22, 2011 at 12:44 am
I read if you get black pepper essential oil and mix it with a carrier oil (coconut or sesame, etc.) it can help with repigmentation of white areas. Kelp is also good to take in capsule form. I also read that rubbing the skin with juice of basil leaves and lime juice helps the white patches, although another site said it was for skin lightening. The juice of celery leaves also contains psolarens. Someone said that Neem is good – capsule, soap and cream – sold in health food stores. I know Neem cleans the blood.
Reply to Lou
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 22, 2011 at 3:21 am
Two dermatologists refused to give me a skin biopsy here. One said that I could try to rub grapeseed oil all over my body. Grapeseed oil is antifungal. I recently read an article about hydrogen peroxide not breaking down in the liver and converting to H20. The H202 (hydrogen peroxide) is also found in the skin layers, which does something to the langerhans cells, causing the melanocytes to die. (It’s all too confusing for me. ) Anyway, I read that catalase breaks down the H202 and converts it to H20 and this calms down the autoimmune response. Pineapple (the real thing) contains catalase. I also read about a pineapple and shelled raw pumpkin seed cleanse using distilled water that gets rid of parasites (which I believe don’t help the situation). Three days on this and no tooth brushing supposedly gets rid of the little critters. Google it.
Reply to Lou
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 19, 2012 at 6:24 pm
Looks like there’s a definite connection between vitiligo (and other autoimmune diseases) to gluten sensitivity and celiac’s. Stop eating flour, wheat and bread products. There are also hidden sources of wheat in some sauces. Cereal too.
Reply to Lou
General Feedback
Becky from Columbus, GA,USA
January 10, 2009 at 12:00 am
My daughter is three years old and she had small white patches when she was born, her dad is from the Phillipines, I am from america. the white spots have gotten bigger and more abundent. The doctors havd tried everything possible and can’t get rid of them. Does any one know of anything that might work?
Reply to Becky
Raj from Chicago, USA
February 11, 2009 at 12:00 am
Your daughter may have Vitiligo and it can be treated with two treatments. Your doctor can prescribe Protopic ointment and also she can take 2 “Neem” capsules per day. Neem is use for treatment of many screen diseases and it is also known as blood purifier. The Protopic has successfully done re-pigmentation of white patches in 2-3 months and it is non steroid medication. Neem may take up to six months before you can see any result.
Reply to Raj
Sara from Philadelphia, PA
February 22, 2009 at 12:00 am
Please go through these links and you will have answer to your daughter’s condition. Also for a steady treatment program, topically apply carrot juice to the patches 3 to 5 times in a day and give her half cup to full cup of carrot juice regularly for 40 days without any break religiously. Please do email me after 40 days about the progress and if needed further course of treatment.
Reply to Sara
Sara from Philadelphia, PA
February 27, 2009 at 12:00 am
Let me add to this that you can email me for a report and more information on Vitiligo.
Reply to Sara
Gilda from Tegucigalpa, Honduras
April 2, 2009 at 12:00 am
Applying noni fruit juice to the skin and drinking 1/2 cup to 1 full cup can also aid in combating this disease.
Reply to Gilda
Mandi from Groton, Ct
April 4, 2010 at 11:38 pm
Hi,
I have been diagonsed with vitiligo. have seen some white patches on face and hair. Has anyone been treated successfully with vitiligo. Dr has given me V-tar for application to the affected area once a week for 10 weeks.
Reply to Mandi
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 19, 2012 at 6:23 pm
Google vitiligo and celiac’s disease. There is a connection to vitiligo with gluten intolerance.
Reply to Lou
Sarah from Toronto, Ontario
March 16, 2013 at 7:47 am
My 4 years old daughter was diagnosed with vitiligo 8 months ago and I am applying Elidel only since January but has not find any satisfactory improvment yet. Will the carrot juice recipe work for her too?
Reply to Sarah
Lou from Tyler, Tx
August 24, 2013 at 5:47 pm
I believe I read that Elidel has been linked to skin cancer.
Reply to Lou
Gluten Sensitivity
Ted from Bangkok, Thailand
August 1, 2004 at 12:00 am
…Dr Reading, an Australian doctor who cured a hundred Lupus [SLE] patients by [among other things] taking them off all grains except RICE and CORN. Dr Wright discussed the connection between a Lancet article recently reporting a link between the genetic marker HLA-B8 and 17 diseases with what he had learned from Dr Reading. All but one of the 17 diseases [Celiac Disease] arethought to be autoimmune diseases. Dr Wright deduced that if dietary restriction of gluten cured the one gene-linked disease known to have an external cause that perhaps all of the gene-linked diseases had an external cause and that it might just be gluten sensitivity!
I would bet on it!!
Here is the list of the diseases linked to the gene that might respond to restriction of gluten containing foods. My advice is that ANY patient with one of the following diagnoses be taken off ALL grain and ALL dairy products until their involvement is ruled out.
Addison’s Disease
Autoimmune hemolytic anemia
Celiac disease
Childhood asthma
Chronic autoimmune hepatitis
Dermatitis herpetiformis
Grave’s disease
Insulin dependent (type 1) Diabetes mellitus
Lupus erythematosis
Myesthenia gravis
Pernicious anemia [100% also suffer total lack of stomach acid]
Polymyalgia rheumatica
Scleroderma
Sjogren’s syndrome
Thyrotoxicosis
Ulcerative colitis
Vitiligo
Dr Wright recommends the tTG test for gluten/gliadin sensitivity, a measure of tissue transglutaminase and supposedly the most sensitive test now available. Information from a website is included below for your convenience.
Other tests are the endomysial antibody test [EMA] for short lived antibodies and the antigliadin antibody [AGA] test for the longer lived IgA and IgG antibodies.
Be sure the patient has consumed gluten containing foods right up until test day or the tests might show negative even in gluten sensitive people.
Reply to Ted
Moli from Greenville, Sc
October 16, 2015 at 5:35 pm
You should be more concerned about Genetically Modified foods like GMO corn, wheat etc, not gluten as a stand alone factor. Gluten is a natural ingredient and people have been consuming gluten products since the dawn of time but only over the past decade gluten has become a serious issue. Why? Because people began to consume GMO foods which your body does not know how to process. This is where the problem is coming from. Genes from GMO plants have been modified and altered in the lab. It is nothing more but a Frankenstein food.
Also, keep the person effected by vitiligo away from vaccines. They contain a lot of heavy metals like aluminum and mercury.
My daughter is not genetically predisposed to vitiligo and was born pretty healthy. At three months of age I gave her Dtap vaccine after which she had a severe fever and a couple of weeks later I started noticing white patches appear. I consulted a holistic doctor and was told it was due to exposure to free radicals which her body was unable to fight due to the fact that at 3 months of age infants have practically no immune system.
Reply to Moli
Primary Sidebar
Add New Post
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Returns
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Medical Disclaimer
About Us
Site Footer
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease.
By accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the Medical Disclaimer, Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Affiliate Disclosure.
Content may not be reproduced in any form.
COPYRIGHT ©2019 EARTH CLINIC. ALL RIGHT RESERVED.
This site uses cookies to ensure we can provide the best experience for you on our website. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. For details, please read our Privacy Policy.OkPrivacy policy