Dupixent (Dupilumab) - $50 Per Month Through Prescription Hope
{{{ data._highlightResult.short_description.value }}} <# if ( data._snippetResult['content'] ) { #> {{{ data._snippetResult['content'].value }}} <# } #>
{{{ data._highlightResult.name.value }}}
Search by Algolia
Toggle navigation
Log In
Home
Enrollment
Quick Answers
About Us
Contact Us
Outreach
Blog
Contact Us
Login
Patient Login
Forgot Your Password?
Enrolled but don't have your online account yet?
Create Online Account Here
New to Prescription Hope?
Enroll Today
Enrollment
Quick Answers
About Us
Outreach
Blog
Home » News » Dupixent (Dupilumab)
Dupixent (Dupilumab)
Posted October 7, 2017 by Mitch
Is Your Dupixent (Dupilumab) Medication Too Expensive?
Learn How People Are Paying A Set Cost of $50 A Month For Dupixent Through Prescription Hope
Are you looking for a place to get your Dupixent (Dupilumab) medication at an affordable price?
Look no further!
Prescription Hope offers the top medications prescribed on a national level all for the set cost of $50 per month for each medication!
Dupixent Cost Comparison Chart
ENROLL NOW LEARN MORE
Who Is Prescription Hope?
Prescription Hope is a nationally recognized prescription medication access program, headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. We access over 1,500 FDA-approved prescription medications for $50 per month for each medication. This covers 100% of the medication cost no matter the retail price.
Prescription Hope is NOT a prescription discount card or an insurance plan. If your Dupixent (Dupilumab) cost is too much, Prescription Hope can help.
Prescription Hope works with over 180 U.S.-based pharmaceutical manufacturers and their pharmacy to access over 1,500 FDA-approved medications. Our medication list includes the top-100 prescribed medications in the United States offered by big-name medication companies. There are no additional costs or hidden fees associated with the medications obtained through Prescription Hope. We will never charge a fee for any medication that we cannot access for you.
Create your account to fill out a free application! Contact Prescription Hope today and begin receiving your prescription medications for the set price of $50 per month for each medication. Below is a price comparison sheet for some of our most popular medications.
Do I Qualify To Get My Dupixent (Dupilumab) Medication Through Prescription Hope?
Prescription Hope works for thousands of Americans every month, obtaining prescription medications on their behalf for the set price of $50.00 per month per medication.
Both individuals and families earning less than $100,000 per year may qualify for Prescription Hope. If our advocates cannot obtain Dupixent for you, we will never charge a fee for that medication.
Once you apply for Prescription Hope, our knowledgeable advocates work for you to manage, track and refill medications on time, maintain up-to-date records, and renew prescription medications every year. Once your application is approved, the first shipment of prescription medication typically arrives within four to six weeks, with refills
coming on a regular schedule. Through our program, Americans save thousands every year from the retail cost of their prescription medications through Prescription Hope.
Is Prescription Hope a Dupixent Discount Drug Card, Coupon, or Insurance Plan?
Prescription Hope is not a Dupixent discount drug card, coupon, or insurance policy. This is also not a Dupixent generic. Instead, Prescription Hope obtains your brand-name medicines directly from the U.S. based pharmaceutical manufacturers and their pharmacy.
Furthermore, there are no applications fees or hidden charges for Prescription Hope. In the event Prescription Hope cannot obtain a prescription medication, there will never be a fee for that medication.
Could Prescription Hope Obtain My Other Prescription Medications As Well?
For the set cost of $50.00 per month per medication, Prescription Hope can obtain any of your prescription medications on our medication list. The top-100 prescribed medications in the United States are accessible on our medication list. Although we do not cover generic medication, if you are prescribed a generic you cannot afford we encourage you to still apply as we may be able to get the brand name equivalent.
If we cannot help you obtain a medication, we will not charge you for that prescription medication. Apply with Prescription Hope now, and start living a better life with affordable prescription medication.
Can I still Use Prescription Hope For Dupixent (Dupilumab) If I Have Insurance Coverage?
Prescription Hope can work with many insurance plans as a value-added program, filling the coverage gap individuals may fall into. Because our program is not an insurance plan, there are no copays, deductibles, or medication tiers for you affordable prescription medications. When you use Prescription Hope, your total will never cost more than $50.00 per month per medication.
As a trusted partner for insurance organizations, Prescription Hope can help insured individuals maintain their policies by obtaining their prescription medications for the set price of $50.00 per month per medication. Contact us today to learn more about how we help insured patients obtain prescription medications.
Dupixent: Used To Treat Eczema
Dupixent is an injectable prescription medicine used to treat adult patients with moderate-to-severe eczema whose disease is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin, or who cannot use topical therapies. Dupixent can be used with or without topical corticosteroids.
Those prescribed Dupixent may be able to access prescription medication with the help of Prescription Hope. As the nation’s fastest-growing pharmacy program, Prescription Hope can obtain over 1,500 FDA-approved prescription medications from over 180 U.S. based pharmaceutical manufacturers for the set price of $50.00 per month per medication. Apply today, and begin obtaining your prescription medications at an affordable price through Prescription Hope.
ENROLL NOW LEARN MORE
As featured and seen in:
Follow Us: Twitter Instagram Youtube Facebook
Enrollment
Healthcare Providers
Blog
About Us
View Quick Answers
Contact Us
Outreach
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
2019 ©Prescription Hope, Inc.
Newsletter Opt-In
Please wait...