Osteoarthritis Pain - Symptoms and Causes of OA Pain
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Pain Topics
Abdominal Pain
Arthritis
Back Pain
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Fibromyalgia
Hip Pain
Knee Pain
Foot Pain
Lupus
Migraine
Nerve Pain
Osteoarthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Pain Management Guide
Types of Pain
Symptoms & Causes
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Support & Resources
More Pain Resources
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Neurologist
Find an Orthopaedist
Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Drug Interactions
Pain Management
Reference
Pain Management: Osteoarthritis
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Symptoms of Osteoarthritis
What Causes Osteoarthritis?
Diagnosing Osteoarthritis
Treatment Options for Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis, or degenerative joint disease, is the most common type of arthritis. It is associated with the breakdown of a joint's cartilage. Cartilage is a firm, rubbery material that covers and cushions the ends of bones in normal joints. Its main function is to reduce friction in the joints and serve as a "shock absorber."
Osteoarthritis causes the cartilage in a joint to become stiff and lose its elasticity, making it more susceptible to damage. Over time, the cartilage may wear away in some areas, greatly decreasing its ability to act as a shock absorber. As the cartilage wears away, tendons and ligaments stretch, causing pain. If the condition worsens, the bones could rub against each other, causing even more pain and loss of movement.
OA is most common in middle-aged and older people, and its symptoms can range from very mild to very severe. The disorder most often affects hands and weight-bearing joints such as knees, hips, feet and the back, but can affect almost any joint in the body. Women are more commonly affected than men.
Symptoms of Osteoarthritis
Symptoms of osteoarthritis include:
Joint aching and soreness, especially with movement
Pain after overuse or after long periods of inactivity
Bony enlargements in the middle and end joints of the fingers. These enlargements may or may not be painful.
What Causes Osteoarthritis?
There are many factors that can increase a person's chance of developing OA, including:
Obesity. Maintaining an ideal weight or losing excess weight may help prevent osteoarthritis of the knees, hips, and back. Weight loss can also decrease the progression of OA.
Injury. People with joint injuries due to sports, work-related activity, or accidents may be at increased risk of developing OA. For example, athletes with knee-related injuries may be at higher risk of developing osteoarthritis of the knee. In addition, people who have had a severe back injury may be predisposed to develop osteoarthritis of the spine. People who have had a broken bone near a joint are prone to develop osteoarthritis in that joint.
Heredity. Some people have an inherited defect in one of the genes responsible for making cartilage. This can cause defective cartilage, which leads to more rapid deterioration of joints. People born with joint abnormalities are more likely to develop osteoarthritis, and those born with an abnormality of the spine (such as scoliosis, a curvature of the spine) are more likely to develop osteoarthritis of the spine.
Joint Overuse. Overuse of certain joints increases the risk of developing OA. For example, people in jobs requiring repeated bending of the knee are at increased risk for developing OA of the knee.
Age. Although age is a risk factor, research has shown that OA is not an inevitable part of aging.
Continued
Diagnosing Osteoarthritis
Doctors make a diagnosis of OA based on a physical exam and history of symptoms. The diagnosis of osteoarthritis is based on a combination of the following factors:
A description of symptoms
The location and pattern of pain
Certain findings in a physical examination
X-rays may be used to confirm a diagnosis and to make sure that no other type of arthritis is present.
Sometimes, blood tests are done. While blood tests cannot point to anything in particular that can help a doctor confirm the presence of OA, the tests can help the doctor rule out a different type of arthritis.
If fluid has accumulated in the body's joints, the doctor may remove some of the fluid with a process called joint aspiration and may examine the fluid under a microscope to rule out other diseases.
Continued
Treatment Options for Osteoarthritis
The treatment of OA focuses on decreasing pain and improving joint movement. The following treatments are available:
Over-the-counter pain-relieving and/or anti-inflammatory medications: These include acetaminophen (Tylenol, for example), aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil and Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve).
Topical treatments. Some medications in the form of creams, rubs, or sprays may be applied to the skin of affected areas to relieve pain and inflammation.
Exercise: Physical activity can improve joint movement and strengthen the muscles that surround the joints. Gentle exercises, such as swimming or walking on flat surfaces, are recommended because they create less stress on joints. Activities that increase joint pain (jogging, high-impact aerobics, etc.) should be avoided. If you have arthritis, talk to your doctor to find out the best exercise routine for you.
Weight control: Losing weight can prevent extra stress on weight-bearing joints.
Prescription anti-inflammatory pain relievers: These help reduce pain and swelling in the joints.
Hyaluronic Acid Injections: These medications can be given as injections to relieve pain in some people with osteoarthritis. Medications include Euflexxa, Hyalgan, Orthovisc, Supartz, Synvisc, and Synvisc-One.
Cymbalta (duloxetine): Originally approved as an antidepressant, Cymbalta is also used to fight various forms of pain, including osteoarthritis pain.
Hot or cold compresses: These treatments may be given in the form of a hot shower or bath, or by applying heating pads or cold compresses.
Joint protection devices: These can help prevent strain or stress on painful joints.
Integrative therapy: Acupuncture has been shown to help relieve pain. While research is conflicting, there is some evidence that the supplements glucosamine and chondroitin may relieve some pain in some people with osteoarthritis, especially in the knee. Several studies have shown that SAMe may work better than prescription anti-inflammatory pain relievers in some people. Several other dietary supplements (including herbals) sometimes help OA pain. Check with your doctor before using these to see if they are right for you.
Steroid injections. Your doctor can inject these potent medicines directly into your joint to help relieve pain. Using them too frequently can cause joint damage.
Narcotics: Stronger pain pills, such as narcotics, may be prescribed when osteoarthritis pain is severe and other treatments are not working.
Surgery: When other treatment options have failed, some people may need surgery to relieve chronic pain in damaged joints.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on January 8, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
Arthritis Foundation: Osteoarthritis.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Osteoarthritis.
Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database.
WebMD Health News: "FDA Approves Cymbalta for Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain."
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
Muscle Spasms & Multiple Sclerosis
Manage Your Migraine
RA Pain Relief Tips
Treating and Preventing Migraines
When Pain Affects Your Relationship
Knee Arthritis: Treatment Advances
further reading
What Is Spinal Stenosis?
Laminectomy Animation
Education and Counseling to Prevent Low Back Pain
Ease Back Pain With Core Strength Training
Use Anti-Seizures
What You Need To Know About Back Pain
How to Wreck Your Back
Spinal Stenosis Topics
Today on WebMD
Why You’re In Pain
Top causes and how to find relief.
Get Moving
8 exercises for less knee pain.
Acupuncture Guide
How it helps arthritis, migraines, and dental pain.
Truth About Painkillers
How much do you know about your meds?
Recommended for You
Slideshow
3 Symptoms of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Slideshow
What's Causing Your Low Back Pain?
Article
Antidepressants for Pain?
Slideshow
10 Foods That Fight Pain
Slideshow
Alternative Treatments for Long-Term Pain
Slideshow
Should You Use a Brace?
Slideshow
Tips for Common Aches and Pains
Video
NSAIDs: What They Are & How They Work
Tools & Resources
Chronic Pain Solutions
Personalized Tips for Managing Migraine
Video: How to Do Tennis Elbow Exercises
14 Tips to Relieve Back Pain
Quiz: Everyday Aches and Pains
Video: 5 Natural Ways to Ease Back Pain
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.