Male pattern baldness: Causes and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Male pattern baldness: What you need to know
Last updated	 Fri 28 July 2017	 Last updated	Fri 28 Jul 2017
By Markus MacGill
Reviewed by Daniel Murrell, MD
Table of contents
Causes
Seeing a doctor
Treatment
Transplantation
Laser and light treatment
Male pattern baldness refers to a loss of hair on the scalp in men. It happens as hormone levels change over a man's lifetime, and especially in the later years.
It is thought to affect 50 million men in the United States, and half of all men by the age of 50 years.
Although a natural part of the aging process for millions of men, hair loss can be psychologically distressing.
Sudden or unexpected hair loss can sometimes indicate a more serious health condition that may need medical attention.
Fast facts on male pattern baldness
Here are some key points about male pattern baldness. More detail is in the main article.
Male pattern baldness, or androgenetic alopecia, typically occurs later in life as a result of changing hormone levels.
Hair loss can be psychologically distressing for men, and they may seek a variety of treatments.
Other causes of hair loss include nutritional deficiencies, infections, and some psychological conditions.
Treatments include medications, laser and light therapies, and hair transplantation.
Causes
Male pattern baldness affects half of all American men over the age of 50 years.
Men normally lose their hair when three main factors interact: genetics, age, and hormones.
Also known as androgenetic alopecia, male-pattern baldness happens as hormone levels change over the course of a man's life.
Genetic factors also affect the likelihood of male-pattern baldness.
These factors contribute to the gradual shrinkage of the tiny cavities in the skin at the base of hairs, known as scalp hair follicles. Hair grows progressively shorter and finer until no new hairs grow.
Most white men develop some degree of baldness, according to their age and genetic makeup. Male pattern baldness affects up to half of all white men by the age of 50 years and up to 80 percent of men in the same group by the age of 70 years. Other ethnic groups, such as Chinese and Japanese, are less affected.
Men with more first- and second-degree relatives who lose their hair have a higher chance of losing hair themselves.
Seeing a doctor
According to Genetics Home Reference, hair loss in men has been linked to prostate cancer, diabetes, obesity and high blood pressure, or hypertension.
It can occur as a reaction to stress or after an illness or major surgery, or as a side effect of some medications, such as anticoagulants, or blood thinners, and vitamin A supplements.
Hair loss can also indicate a health condition, such as lupus, a fungal infection, or a thyroid problem.
Other possible causes include:
Iron deficiency
Excess vitamin A, possibly as a result of retinoid drugs
Severe chronic illness, such as diabetes or lupus
Malnutrition
Use of anticoagulants, or blood thinners
Telogen effluvium, a disturbance of the hair growth cycle
A number of genetic changes have been linked to male pattern baldness, but only one has been confirmed by research, the androgen receptor (AR) gene.
Other research has suggested that an abnormal quantity of a protein called prostaglandin D2 in the scalps of some men could link to hair loss.
Anyone who is concerned that hair loss may be a symptom of a health problem should see a doctor.
Treatment
Many men see hair loss as a natural part of growing older, and they do not perceive the need for treatment.
However, hair loss can trigger negative psychological effects, such as low self-esteem. In some, it can contribute to depression.
Some treatments are available that may help reduce hair loss.
Medication
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved two types of drug treatment for male pattern baldness.
Minoxidil
Minoxidil, or Rogaine, is a topical treatment applied to the scalp. It is available over the counter (OTC) at pharmacies, usually as a lotion or foam. It is reported to work best on the crown of the head.
Treatment for male pattern baldness is available, but a full reversal is not yet possible.
Minoxidil was originally tested to treat blood pressure, but some people noticed additional hair growth as a side effect while using it. It is unclear exactly how it helps prevent hair loss.
It may take 3 to 6 months for results to appear, and the medication must be used indefinitely to preserve effects.
Adverse effects include skin problems, such as itching and irritation, hives, swelling, sensitivity, and contact dermatitis.
More rarely, the user may experience blurred vision, chest pain, a fast or irregular heartbeat, flushing, headache, lightheadedness, and numbness or tingling in the face or the extremities. Rapid weight gain may result.
Finasteride and dutasteride
Finasteride, or Propecia, is an oral treatment available only on prescription.
Finasteride is a 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitor. It prevents dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a male hormone that plays a role in shrinking the scalp hair follicles. The drug blocks the formation of this hormone in the scalp, slowing the progression of baldness related to DHT.
The effects can take more than 6 months to appear. The 1 milligram (mg) tablet must usually be taken once a day for at least 3 months.
If the pill is stopped, the effects will be reversed.
In rare cases, finasteride can cause sexual dysfunction. This may include reduced libido, difficulty achieving an erection, and ejaculation disorders.
Other adverse effects include:
breast tissue tenderness or enlargement
skin rash
swelling of the lips, tongue, or face
abdominal pain
back pain
diarrhea
dizziness
headache
Dutasteride is similar to Finasteride. It is also a 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitor.
Everything you need to know about DHT
DHT has a key role to play in male-pattern baldness. Click here to discover more.
Read now
Shampoo treatments
Two other treatments are available for male pattern baldness, both without prescription, in the form of shampoo:
Ketoconazole 2 percent, also known as Nizoral
Pyrithione zinc 1 percent, or Head and Shoulders
These are likely to be less effective than finasteride and minoxidil.
Transplantation
Hair transplantation involves taking hair from elsewhere and grafting it onto the scalp.
Hairs in the lower part of the back of the scalp are more resistant to androgens, and so they are used in surgical transplants. The hair donated to balding areas remains resistant to the male hormones.
Surgery involves either:
taking a strip of skin from another part of the head, complete with hair, to graft it onto the bald area
transplanting individual hairs, which avoids scarring
The procedures are expensive and unlikely to be covered by most insurance providers.
In a study published in 2013, scientists managed to grown new hair follicles in a lab, which produced some hairs when transplanted onto a mouse.
This is the only procedure so far that has grown new hairs.
This could one day lead to procedures that would enable new hair growth in men with male pattern baldness.
Laser and light treatment
Laser and light therapies are popular, but they have not been shown to slow or prevent male pattern baldness, and the FDA has not approved them for efficacy.
A course of laser therapy may last from 6 to 12 months.
Other options
No use of vitamins or supplements has been confirmed safe or effective by the FDA.
However, as obesity, diabetes, and hypertension have been linked to hair loss, following a healthful diet, getting plenty of exercise, and avoiding excessive alcohol intake may help reduce the risk.
Not all men opt for treatment or even expect their hair to continue to grow naturally.
Some men will opt for a hairpiece or wig.
Other options include changing the hairstyle, shaving the head, or increasing facial hair. A good hairdresser will advise you about what suits you best.
You could just end up with a smart new look.
Related coverage
Baldness: How close are we to a cure? Recent discoveries in hair loss research have paved the way for new treatments for baldness. Is the cure for baldness just around the corner? We find out. Read now
Genetic basis for male baldness identified in large-scale study New large-scale genetic study examines over 52,000 men with moderate-to-severe hair loss and identifies over 250 genetic locations linked to the condition. Read now
Everything you need to know about DHT Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) is a hormone linked to hair loss and other health issues. By the age of 50, more than half the men in the U.S. will likely experience hair loss mediated by DHT. Treatments that block this hormone may prevent a receding hairline. Learn more about DHT, treatments, and male pattern baldness here. Read now
The best hair loss treatments for men Male baldness affects many men at different ages, and while there is no full cure or way to reverse hair loss, there are options to reduce symptoms. This MNT Knowledge Center article explores the causes and best treatments for male pattern baldness and hair loss, as well as ways to prevent it. Read now
Heart disease risk increased fivefold for bald and graying men Young men under 40 years old may be more than five times more likely to develop coronary artery disease if they have male pattern baldness and gray hair. Read now
email email
print
share share
Men's Health
Dermatology
Additional information
Article last updated by Yvette Brazier on Fri 28 July 2017.
Visit our Men's Health category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Men's Health.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Androgenetic alopecia. (2015, August). Retrieved from https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/androgenetic-alopecia#statistics
Birchall, N. M. (2015, July). Male pattern hair loss. Retrieved from https://www.dermnetnz.org/topics/male-pattern-hair-loss/
Doucleff, M. (2013, October 21). Scientists grow new hair in a lab, but don't rush to buy a comb [Press release]. Retrieved from http://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2013/10/21/239121782/scientists-grow-new-hair-in-a-lab-but-dont-rush-to-buy-a-comb
Hair loss. (2017, June). Retrieved from https://familydoctor.org/condition/hair-loss/
Hair loss: Information and treatment options. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.ftmguide.org/hairloss.html
Higgins, C. A., Chenb, J. C., Cerisea, J. E, Jahodad, C. A. B., & Christianoa, A. M. (2013, September 5). Microenvironmental reprogramming by threedimensional culture enables dermal papilla cells to induce de novo human hair-follicle growth. PNAS. Retrieved from http://www.pnas.org/content/110/49/19679.full.pdf
Nieves, A., & Garza, L. A. (2014, April).Does Prostaglandin D2 hold the cure to male pattern baldness? Experimental dermatology 23(4), 224-227. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3982925/
Rogers NE, Avram MR. (2008, October). Medical treatments for male and female pattern hair loss. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 59(4), 547-568. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18793935
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
MacGill, Markus. "Male pattern baldness: What you need to know." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 28 Jul. 2017. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/68077.php>
APA
MacGill, M. (2017, July 28). "Male pattern baldness: What you need to know." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/68077.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Men's Health
What are the symptoms of low testosterone?
Do penis enlargement methods work?
Best foods for increasing low testosterone
What can cause a testicle lump?
What do white spots on testicles mean?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/68077.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);