Achilles Tendon Rupture Kogarah NSW |Achilles Tendon Injury Sydney
For Appointments
Please Call: (02) 9588-6399
:: About Us
:: Mission & Objectives
:: Our Doctors
:: Our Staff
:: Practice Locations
:: Contact Us
:: Multimedia Patient Education
:: Conditions & Procedures
:: Hip
:: Knee
:: Shoulder
:: Elbow
:: Spine
:: Foot & Ankle
:: Paediatrics
:: Arthritis
:: Sports Medicine
:: Preparing for Surgery & Procedure
:: Tips for Better Spine Health
:: Patient Forms
:: Useful Links
:: General Appointment
:: Online Appointment
:: Patient Forms
:: Publications
:: Sekel
:: Kirsh
:: Rosenberg
:: Projects
:: Sekel
:: Lectures
:: Sekel
:: Kirsh
:: Rosenberg
:: General
:: Conditions & Procedures
:: Insurance & Medicare
Home » Patient Info » Conditions & Procedures » Foot & Ankle » Achilles Tendon Rupture
Patient Info
Achilles Tendon Rupture
Achilles tendon is a strong fibrous cord present behind the ankle that connects the calf muscles to heel bone. It is used when you walk, run and jump. When the Achilles tendon becomes thin, weak, or if it is not used, it may be susceptible to injury or damage. Achilles tendon rupture occurs most often in middle-aged athlete participating in sports that involve running, pivoting, and jumping. Recreational sports that may cause Achilles rupture include tennis, racquetball, basketball, and badminton.
If Achilles tendon is ruptured you will experience severe pain in the back of your leg, swelling, stiffness, and difficulty to stand on tiptoe and push the leg when walking. A popping or snapping sound is heard when the injury occurs. You may also feel a gap or depression in the tendon, just above heel bone.
Your doctor diagnoses the rupture based on symptoms, history of the injury and physical examination. Your doctor will gently squeeze the calf muscles, if the Achilles tendon is intact, there will be flexion movement of the foot, if it is ruptured, there will be no movement observed.
Achilles tendon rupture is treated using non surgical method or surgical method. Non surgical treatment involves wearing a cast or special brace which is changed after some period of time to bring the tendon back to its normal length. Along with cast or brace, physical therapy may be recommended to improve the strength and flexibility of leg muscles and Achilles tendon. Surgical procedure involves opening the skin and suturing the torn tendon together. Surgery helps to decrease the recurrence of the Achilles tendon in comparison to the non-surgical treatment.
To help prevent an Achilles tendon injury, it is a good practice to perform stretching and warm-up exercises before any participating in any activities. Gradually increase the intensity and length of time of activity. Muscle conditioning may help to strengthen the muscles in the body.
Our Services
Hip
Knee
Back
Shoulder
Multimedia
Patient Education
Location Maps
© St. George Orthopaedics Surgical & Non-surgical Treatment of Orthopaedic or Musculoskeletal Disorders & Injuries Kogarah NSW
Home | Disclaimer | Privacy | Sitemap | Feedback | Tell a friend | Contact Us