The World’s No 1 Food Against Heart Attack, Hypertension, Stroke And Cholesterol
Langsung ke konten utama
Cari Blog Ini
Healthy Tips
share about health and natural medicine
The World’s No 1 Food Against Heart Attack, Hypertension, Stroke And Cholesterol
Dapatkan link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Aplikasi Lainnya
We have something to show you in case you’re searching for the most beneficial food in the world. We recommend you to try dates.
They contain a lot of healthy properties that are able to soothe many health problems, such as strokes, heart attacks, cholesterol and hypertension.
In no time, they are going to build up the metabolism of the body, because they have great amounts of nutrients.
Here are some of the main recommendations why they have to be included in your food menu and why they are so healthy.
8 HEALTHY EFFECTS OF DATES
Dates are rich in iron
Dates contain great amounts of iron, which is especially useful for those people who suffer from anemia, for children and for pregnant women.
It is sufficient to consume 100 grams of dates per day, which mainly contain 0.9 mg of iron. It is about 11 % of the recommended daily intake of iron.
The iron has also beneficial effects on the red blood cells and hemoglobin, mainly supporting the flow of oxygen through the blood.
Dates prevent diarrhea
Dates also have got great amounts of potassium, which is an essential mineral that prevents diarrhea by relieving the belly flora and the intestines, stimulating more effective bacteria in this way.
Dates soothe constipation
Dates have also got relieving properties that can soothe diarrhea and constipation. That is the reason why you should put dates in water to stay throughout the night, and then to drink it in the morning in order to increase good digestion. Its effects are going to be laxative and mild.
Dates control body weight
If you want to prevent excessive fat, you should eat dates on an empty stomach. Namely, it is going to control your body weight, since they have no cholesterol.
You have to be familiar with the fact that they are rich in sugar, so be careful when consuming them.
Dates regulate cholesterol
Dates are also useful for the regulation of the unhealthy cholesterol or known as LDL, because they cleanse the blood vessels and prevent any blood clots.
Dates strengthen the heart
At night, soak the dates. In the morning, first strain them and then put out the seeds. You can either eat or blender the seeds.
Dates regulate blood pressure
People who mainly suffer from hypertension have to eat a lot of dates, because they are rich in potassium and do not have sodium.
Namely, 5 to 6 dates nearly contain 80 mg of magnesium, an important mineral that is spread through the blood vessels and that improves the flow of the blood.
Approximately, 370 mg of magnesium are useful for decreasing the blood pressure.
Dates prevent strokes
As previously mentioned in the article, dates have got great amounts of potassium, which is an important mineral that significantly improves the nervous system and also prevents any strokes.
Therefore, if you take 400 mg of potassium a day, you have no reasons to worry about.
We really hope you find this article helpful and don’t forget to share it with your friends and family. Thank You.
The content of this article, including medical opinion and any other health-related information, is for informational purposes only and should not be considered to be a specific diagnosis or treatment plan for any individual (person).
Use of this site and the information contained herein does not create a doctor-patient relationship.
Always seek the direct advice of your own doctor in connection with any questions or issues you may have regarding your own health or the health of others.
Dapatkan link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Aplikasi Lainnya
Postingan populer dari blog ini
Mouthwash Removes Plaque From Teeth In 1 Minute
Oral hygiene could be very essential for dental health. We all recognize that is most important to sweep their tooth morning and evening, but aside from a toothbrush and paste, need to be used and dental floss and mouthwashes.
Mouthwashes ought to be used specially when you have troubles with plaque and tartar. And the exceptional is that leaves fresh aroma on your mouth.
Mouthwash Removes Plaque From Teeth In 1 Minute
Today we’re offering you a recipe for selfmade mouthwash.
The blessings of creating this kind of liquid for your homes are that you are positive within the pleasant of elements, is less expensive and you’ll get extra amount.
Ingredients:
-1 tablespoon baking soda
-½ cup hydrogen peroxide (hydrogen peroxide)
-½ teaspoon of salt
-½ cup heat water
-1 cup cold water
Substances:
-Toothbrush
-Pot the cup
-Toothpick (toothpicks).
Commands:
-Blend the baking soda with the salt. Then wet the toothbrush in warm water and spread with the mixture above.
Rub thoroughly the enamel a…
Baca selengkapnya
This Is Amazing! Apply Vaseline For 30 Days on Your Breasts And See What Happens!
We all know that Vseline has wide range of uses. It is often used for rough skin on the elbows and ankles, for lip care, softening the skin and can be also used for some unusual purposes.
This amazing products can be also sue for increasing the cup size of your breasts. This unusual use can be perform at home, you only have to put some tooth paste on the nipples and rub the Vaseline on your breasts.
Do this amazing technique every night until you get desired results . you will be surprised by the results!
HERE ARE THE MOST EFFETCIVE USES OF VASELINE FOR BEAUTY PURPOSES
Get rid of glue from the eyelashes by rubbing it on the lashes
After shaving
Make a mixture between sea salt and Vaseline and exfoliate your skin
Avoid spray ten streaks by putting some Vaseline on back of the knees, knees and ankles
Get rid of stains of make up from your clothes
Makes your shoes look new
You can also make your eyebrow plucking easier
Removing make-up
Apply some Vaseline on the teeth in order to preven…
Baca selengkapnya
THIS MOUTHWASH REMOVES PLAQUE FROM TEETH IN 2 MINUTES!
Your oral health very much determines your overall health and well-being.
So, oral hygiene is a must if you want to maintain your body healthy, one of the steps in oral hygiene procedure is mouthwash.
Mouthwash lowers the presence of plaque, and at the same time reaches and fights off the bacteria that evaded from the dental cleaning.
This step is the last one in the oral hygiene procedure, which successfully removes bacteria and germs. Thanks to which your mouth is clean and fresh.
Up to now, it has been proven that cavities can be cured with adequate care and a healthy diet.
Here below are the benefits of using a homemade mouthwash:
It does not cost a lot, and moreover it will provide you with amazing effects.
You are in charge of which ingredients you will use and supervise its use. Tartar can be efficiently removed with completely safe and natural ingredients.
No content of harmful chemicals contrary to the advertised commercial mouthwash products which are packed with various a…
Baca selengkapnya
Diberdayakan oleh Blogger
Gambar tema oleh Michael Elkan
Arsip
April 201989
Maret 201979
Februari 2019105
Januari 2019100
Desember 201850
November 201821
Label
Health
Laporkan Penyalahgunaan