Achilles Tendonitis Brace and Everything You Need to Know - Kho Health
Blog
What are you looking for? Press enter to confirm search term
Blog
AnkleAthleteBlogFootInjury Directory
Achilles Tendonitis Brace
Achilles Tendonitis is a painful injury that happens when your Achilles tendon (A large tendon at the back of your foot, above the ankle) gets strained or torn. It’s a common, painful injury that affects people that play running sports. An Achilles Tendonitis brace can help to protect your tendons and prevent nasty injuries.
There are two main types of Achilles injury – Non-insertional and Insertional Achilles Tendonitis.
Non-Insertional Achilles Tendonitis happens if there is a swelling or painful infection of any part of your tendon above the heel bone.
Insertional Achilles Tendonitis happens if the swelling happens at the point where the Achilles tendon joins your heel bone.
Both types are painful injuries that could prevent you from being able to play sports. The good news it that there is something that could help you to continue playing while your injuries heal – The Achilles Tendonitis brace.
Achilles Tendonitis Brace – How It Works
An Achilles Tendonitis Brace lets you participate in sports even with your Achilles Tendon injured. How does it work? It takes pressure off your Achilles tendon while you walk, run, climb, or leap.
For the avoidance of doubt, an Achilles Tendonitis brace is NOT a shoe. A good brace is a wrap-around covering for your feet and ankles. It should be made of a soft, breathable material to avoid excessive sweating.
Achilles Tendonitis Brace – What To Look Out For When Choosing One
There are many options available on the market, but not all braces are born equal. Keep the following in mind when making a choice:
Lightweight: A good Achilles Tendonitis brace should be lightweight and slim enough to fit into your running shoes just like socks. The idea is to find a brace that offers little weight without compromising on durability.
Breathability: It’s very important for your brace to be made of breathable material. Since your feet will be in shoes for most of the day, you may tend to sweat a lot. You will feel very uncomfortable playing if a brace causes your feet to overheat.
Quality: The best way to safeguard your investment is to buy braces from recognized brands. Brands that more athletes have used will show enough feedback. Read these to find out more about a particular brace you’re looking at to be sure you’re making the right choice.
Durability: A good brace should come with a warranty. The quality of material it’s made up should be great. Although this might cost you a little more money, it will be worth it in the long run. You certainly don’t want a brace that would fray at the edges in a month. Because you will be doing a lot of walking and running over its useful life, you need a brace made of resilient material.
Versatility: A quality brace can be used to support the feet from many injuries and conditions. Strains and shocks are other common issues that many athletes face, especially those in running sports. An Achilles Tendonitis brace offers good support to your feet to prevent one injury from leading to another.
Achilles Tendonitis Brace – Let An Expert Help You Protect Your Feet
Kho Health helps to connect injured athletes with top healthcare providers in their area.
Gain instant access to top Sports medicine professionals to help you protect your feet from both Insertional and Non-Insertional Achilles Tendonitis. You save time and money when you speak with the right professionals. A brace is only going to be able to do so much compared to what a sports medicine provider can do.
www.khohealth.com
Tags: achilles, Ankle, Foot
Share on social media
10 Books For Athletes That Are Must Reads
Athletic Girls Run The World and These Traits Are Why
Related Posts
Athlete
Ibuprofen Gel and Everything You Need to Know About It
We all get hurt from time to time. It is part of being an athlete....
By Kho Health
Blog
Chiropractor Salary and Why It Will Grow (Chiropractic Salary)
Whether you are a chiropractor now or you are thinking about being, one of the...
By Kho Health
Athlete
Kettlebell Halo
The kettlebell halo is a great movement for developing shoulder stability. Those athletes out there...
By Kho Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
© 2017 KHO LABS. All Rights Reserved.