ORTONYX Achilles Tendon Heel Protector Padded Compression Sleeve, Ankle Support Sock for Bursitis, Tendonitis, Tenderness/XL | Medical Supplies & Equipment
Friday , April 26th 2019
Best Leg & Foot Supports
Medical Supplies & Equipment
Ankle Supports
Medical Support Hose
Knee Braces
Foot Supports
Ankle Braces
ORTONYX Achilles Tendon Heel Protector Padded Compression Sleeve, Ankle Support Sock for Bursitis, Tendonitis, Tenderness/XL
Availability: In Stock
Product Features:
Achilles Tendon Support Brace is designed to stabilize and support the Achilles tendon, relieve pain, and reduce swelling. The brace can be used after surgery, for acute and chronic Achilles tendon conditions, to relieve pain and inflammation associated with tendonitis, Haglund's deformity, heel bursitis, and for other conditions causing…
Price as on: 2019-02-11 15:45:48
23.6	19.99
Product Description
Achilles Tendon Support Brace is designed to stabilize and support the Achilles tendon, relieve pain, and reduce swelling. The brace can be used after surgery, for acute and chronic Achilles tendon conditions, to relieve pain and inflammation associated with tendonitis, Haglund’s deformity, heel bursitis, and for other conditions causing pain, discomfort, and weakness in the back of the foot.
The brace is made of durable, lightweight, breathable, moisture-wicking elastic fabric for increased comfort, thermoregulation, and moisture control.
The flexible knit fabric anatomically conforms to the body, providing additional support and stability. The construction of the fabric helps to distribute forces and pressure evenly, thus preventing fluid build up and relieving pain and discomfort.
Gentle compression exerted by the fabric improves blood circulation, and reduces inflammation for faster recovery without restricting movement or slipping down.
Contoured cushioning inserts along the Achilles tendon and under the heel reduce pressure on the tendon and make wearing the brace even more comfortable throughout the day.
Due to its innovative features, the Achilles Tendon Support Brace offers instant pain relief and comfort and allows to continue being active while treating the injury.
Measure ankle circumference to determine size:
S: 7.5″-8.3″
M: 8.3″-9.1″
L: 9.1″-9.8″
XL: 9.8″-10.6″
Product Features
ANKLE SUPPORT FOR A VARIETY OF CONDITIONS: Achilles tendonitis, recovery after injury or surgery, Haglund’s deformity, heel bursitis, other conditions causing pain, swelling and inflammation of the Achilles tendon and back of the heel.
COMFORT AND FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT: Durable, lightweight, breathable, flexible, moisture-wicking knit fabric that keeps the foot cool, dry and comfortable during physical activity, and doesn’t restrict movement.
TARGETED RELIEF: Soft contoured cushioning pads along the Achilles tendon and under the foot.
INNOVATIVE FEATURES FOR MAXIMIZED EFFECT: The construction of the fabric evenly distributes pressure and impact, offers gentle compression, providing additional support and a massage effect that prevents fluid build up, thus relieving inflammation, swelling and pain. Contoured inserts reduce the pressure on the tendon.
INSTANT RELIEF AND COMFORT: The Achilles Tendon Support Brace offers instant pain relief and comfort, supporting the foot in a comfortable yet stable position, and allowing to continue being active while treating the injury.
Share on Facebook Share
Share on Pinterest Pin it
Share on TwitterTweet
Send To Devices Send
Related Products
Beister 2 Pack Ankle Brace Compression Support Sleeve
Beister Ankle Support Brace Accompany You. Say No to Pain and Do yourself. Are you tired of dealing with…
Price : 11.99
View Details
Aircast AirSport Ankle Support Brace, Right Foot,
Provides moderate support and compression utilizing air cell technology, and incorporates a semi-rigid encased shell which delivers stability and…
Price : 27.68
View Details
Zamst A2-DX Strong Support Ankle Brace, White, Large
Step into protection and stability with the Zest A2-DX Ankle Brace. Engineered to provide the ultimate in athletic support…
Price : 64.99
View Details
Popular Products
Liomor Ankle Support Breathable Ankle Brace for
Nov 8 2018 569 Views
Blitzu Flex Plus Compression Knee Brace for Joint
Nov 8 2018 521 Views
Made in the USA – Opaque Compression Socks,
Nov 8 2018 391 Views
Nuvein Compression Socks for Women and Men, Medical
Nov 8 2018 366 Views
This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com All logos and product images are copyrighted to the original manufacturer.
Copyright © 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Contact Us | Sitemap | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy