18 Powerful Ways to Treat Burns Naturally–Even the Most Serious | Real News Australia
Real News Australia Reading Between the Lies
LATEST NEWS
PODCAST
ABOUT RNA
You are here: Home » 18 Powerful Ways to Treat Burns Naturally–Even the Most Serious
November 3, 2015 | Eureka Wellness | Comments Off on 18 Powerful Ways to Treat Burns Naturally–Even the Most Serious
18 Powerful Ways to Treat Burns Naturally–Even the Most Serious
Burns. They hurt when we get them and they hurt even more when they’re healing. We all know that applying cold—be it an insulated packet of frozen peas or cold water—to the area is the first port of call when it comes to treating our injury, but for many of us, that’s where our first aid knowledge stops.
Since heat has been around forever, so have burns. And since the earliest times, people have used natural means to treat burns—both to ease the pain they cause, and to heal the skin— often more effectively than with the chemical treatments that modern medicine will prescribe.
Hospitals are quick to advocate skin grafts, but the fact is that if burnt skin is properly looked after and given the right assistance to heal, they are more often than not completely unnecessary.
Of course, if a burn is serious, do not hesitate to visit a hospital for treatment, but knowing that there are alternative methods which have been used to great success is important—the doctor’s way IS NOT the only way!
I can personally vouch for the success of natural remedies in healing burns. While working with electricity some years ago, I sustained a rather severe (in fact, third degree) burn. My employer forced me into going to the emergency room of the nearest hospital, and the doctor who treated me set an appointment with a burn specialist.
However, I began treating the burn myself, using a combination of Aloe Vera for soothing and healing, comfrey for cell regeneration, cayenne pepper for disinfecting, lavender oil for pain relief and apple cider vinegar for disinfecting.
I never went to that appointment with the burn specialist, as after only a matter of weeks of treating the burn naturally, it completely healed, without any scarring or the need for skin grafts! The before and after pictures can show just how much damage was done to the finger, and how well it healed. The ‘before’ picture was taken in the emergency room of the hospital, and the ‘after’ picture was taken several weeks later.
Allow oxygen to speed up the process
Burns need oxygen to help with the healing process, so removing any bandages and airing out the area will allow the skin to breathe and repair the damaged tissue.
This plant is a must-have in every home for fast relief!
Aloe Vera gel is one of the BEST ways of healing burns! And the fresh stuff is definitely best in this case. Everyone should have an Aloe Vera plant somewhere in their yard, as this plant has a multitude of uses, from being a moisturiser to helping with sunburns and more serious burns. The bigger the plant, the more powerful its healing properties, but even the gel of a small plant can work wonders.
Cut off a leaf from the plant (when it comes to choosing which leaf, remember that the older, bigger leaves on the outside of the plant have stronger healing properties than the young leaves) then slice it open to remove the gel inside. Place the gel onto the burn, taking care not to damage the skin, which is extremely sensitive in its burnt state.
The body will absorb the Aloe as it is needed, so be sure to replace it with more fresh Aloe several times a day.
If fresh Aloe is unavailable, check your health food shop or health food section of your supermarket for aloe; however, make sure it is pure Aloe, as many commercially-available Aloe products have some nasty chemicals added.
Ice water, NOT ice
Cooling off the burnt area is the step we are all familiar with. As soon as the burn occurs, find something to cool the area off—water (either holding the burn under running water, or immersing it in water to which ice can be added), or ice packs covered with a wet cloth are perhaps the most commonly-used. The cold should be kept on for AT LEAST 10 minutes, even if the pain has disappeared before this time. Not only does this lower the temperature of the skin and prevent any further burning and blistering from occurring, but it helps to relieve some of the pain.
The MOST POWERFUL way to heal even the most serious burns!
Comfrey is a cell-proliferant, i.e. it helps with the growth of new cells. In fact, a relative of mine had a pet sheep. That sheep broke its leg, and was going to have to be put down. Around the same time as the leg broke, however, the sheep happened to have a feast on the comfrey plants that were growing in the garden. Believe it or not, its leg healed completely, and the sheep did not have to be put down!
Comfrey can help the skin to begin to repair itself. Fresh comfrey can be ground up and used, but dried, powdered comfrey is probably best, as it is less grainy. Either way, it can be mixed with equal parts of wheat germ oil and raw honey to make a thick paste which can be applied carefully to the burnt area. This is one of THE BEST natural treatments to heal burns. Wheat germ oil is extremely high in vitamin E and helps to heal the skin and reduce scarring. The raw honey also assists with healing, has anti-bacterial properties, and helps to soothe the area.
The mixture can be applied liberally to the wound and covered with a bandage. The skin should absorb the mixture, especially when the burn is severe. However, if some remains, leave this over the burn and add more on top of this.
Kept in a jar in the fridge, this ‘burn paste’ will last for six months or more, and is wonderful to have on hand in the event of an emergency.
The late herbalist Dr. John Christopher liked to tell a story that demonstrates the healing powers of this burn paste. There were two boys around ten years of age, whose both hands were burnt after playing with gas and matches. Both were taken to the hospital, where they were told that their burns were third degree.
Both parents were told that they had two options: the hands could be cut off and replaced with iron claws, or skin grafts could be applied over a year or so, in numerous operations. However, if they chose this option, the boys would not be able to use their hands, which would look like ‘mummified claws’. They would be able to pick up objects, but would be unable to move their fingers.
The parents of one of the boys decided to keep the boy at the hospital and go for the skin graft option, while the parents of the other boy told the doctor that they wanted to seek a second opinion and may return after doing so.
The second opinion they wanted to seek was that of Doctor Christopher. He was lecturing at the time, and brought in the boy, whose fingernails, and much of his tendons and flesh were so badly burnt that it made him almost sick to look at. The parents asked if there was an alternative to the options that the doctor had suggested, and he gave them the burn ointment (equal parts comfrey, wheat germ oil and honey). He told them to spread it around half an inch thick over the whole area, and add more paste to the areas where it had been absorbed into the skin.
A week later the boy returned to the hospital with his parents and were seen by the same doctor who saw them when they first arrived. He was amazed that in such a short space of time, the burns that were originally third degree burns were now only first degree. The doctor told them to continue using their remedy, and that the boy would most likely not need the skin grafting surgeries, as it appeared that his hands would heal without scar tissue. Sure enough, a few weeks later, his hands were healed, and not long after that, the finger nails returned, and the tendons, nerves and muscles had completely grown back, to the extent that there was no evidence of his injury.
A year later, the second boy was still in the hospital, continuing to undergo surgery and skin grafting, which was both costly and traumatising for his family. When he was finally released, just like the doctor had told him, both his hands looked like mummified claws, of which he was so ashamed that he wore gloves to cover them.
For very little cost, the boy who had visited Doctor Christopher was able to retain the use of his hands, thanks to Dr Christopher’s burn paste.
Cabbage can help!
Cabbage leaves have been shown to help relieve pain associated with burns, and speed up the healing process. The leaves should be mashed up and applied to the area.
An old remedy to soothe pain and promote healing
An old lotion for healing burns can be made as follows: combine one teaspoon of golden seal, one teaspoon of myrrh and one teaspoon of boric acid with a pint of boiling water. Allow the mixture to stand for half an hour, then pour off the clear liquid that remains. Using an absorbent cloth, apply the mixture to the burn. This solution contains anti-bacterial properties, helps soothe the pain and promote healing. Alternatively, for deep wounds, apply just the powders of the golden seal, myrrh and boric acid, rather than adding these ingredients to water. This helps to keep the area dry, and heal more quickly.
Lavender is more than just a nice-smelling plant!
Several drops of lavender oil can be mixed with water and put into a spray bottle. This mixture can be sprayed directly onto the burnt area to soothe and help with the healing process. Lavender has anti-bacterial properties which can prevent the burn from becoming infected. This remedy can also be used for sunburn.
Alternatively, a lavender oil poultice can be applied to burns: soak a clean cloth in either iced water or witch hazel. Add one drop of lavender oil and, if desired, chamomile oil, for every square inch of burnt skin. Apply the cloth to the skin.
Heal it from the inside to further shorten the recovery time
Remedies taken internally can also aid the body in healing the wound from the inside out. The following tea is one such example: mix together equal parts of peppermint, valerian and skullcap, and add one teaspoon of the mixture to a cup of boiling water, which can be drunk throughout the day.
Read the rest at Eureka Wellness
Share this:
Print
Tweet
Email
Like this:
Like Loading...
Tags: burn treatment, Burns, Header1
Categories: Health
Author:Eureka Wellness
Stephen is a natural herbalist, as well as the founder of Eureka Wellness, a health and wellness centre in Australia, which highlights the importance of a raw diet with juicing, exercise, and clean water and air, as well as herbal supplementations. Eureka Wellness works with patients whom the doctors have dismissed as incurable. Stephen’s specialty is with late stages of diseases such as cancer, and helping patients to take control of their health once more.
View all posts by Eureka Wellness →
Subscribe
Subscribe to our RSS feed and social profiles to receive updates.
← General Maddox Guest Spot on the ARP (Australian Roundtable Podcast)
Melbourne gym recruits members for Israeli army →
Subscribe Now!
Enter your email address to follow Real News Australia and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,649 other followers
Email Subscription
Stay Informed. Subscribe Today!
Subscribe to our RSS feed and social profiles to receive updates.
Like Us on Facebook
Like Us on Facebook
We’d Love Your Support
TOTTnews by Ethan Nash
The Crazz Files by Adam Crabb
General Knowledge Podcast
Categories
Australian-news (231)
Banking (4)
Documentaries (8)
Health (127)
Home (263)
International-news (165)
politics (32)
Technocracy (3)
Uncategorized (4)
Weather (14)
Archive of previous posts/articles
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
July 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
November 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
Admin Login
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Blog Stats
781,489 Unique Views
Become a Patron today!
Donate through Paypal today!
Real News Australia
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: