Yoga for Asthma | LexiYoga
LexiYoga
☰
Yoga Videos
Yoga Poses
Yoga Reviews

Yoga Music
Yoga Videos
Yoga Poses
Yoga Styles
Yoga Girls
Mind
Body
Spirit
Chakras
Relationships
Health
Natural Herbs
Community
Toronto
Quotes
Reviews
Horoscopes
Games
Yoga for Asthma
Written by Dr. Minakshi Welukar.
As proved effective in other illnesses, yoga is equally beneficial in controlling symptoms of asthma. Yoga and breathing techniques improve total lung capacity and facilitate easier breathing in those suffering with asthma.
Asthma is a chronic lung disease characterized by the narrowing of airway and airflow obstruction. An asthmatic attack can be trigger by an allergen such as pollen, dust or just seasonal change. It causes extra mucus production that blocks the airways. Subsequently you experience shortness of breath, chest tightness and coughing.
Focus of yoga on breathing helps to build-up lung capacity and improve oxygen availability. Also yogic asanas are a great way to build body stamina and immunity to fight against an asthma triggering allergen.
There is no permanent cure for asthma, and patients have to relay on steroidal medication or always carry a pump to combat with symptoms. Yogic breathing exercises with a particular focus on lungs can help you how to breathe effectively and reduce severity of asthma symptoms.
Yoga offers the following health benefits to those with asthma:
Improve Pulmonary Function
According to a study published in the Indian Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology, yoga breathing exercises significantly improves pulmonary (lung) function in any patients with bronchial asthma.
A randomized control trial found out statistically significant improvement in pulmonary function tests in asthmatic people under yoga breathing training. Hence yoga breathing exercises can be used adjunctively with standard drug therapy for betterment of lung function in asthmatic.
Reduce Frequency of Asthmatic Attack
In one clinical trial, yoga therapy has shown an excellent impact in reducing the frequency of day-and-night attacks in asthma sufferer. A study published in Ethiopian Journal of Health Science has also pointed out that regular yoga reduces the need of taking anti-asthmatic drug dosages and improves lung function.
Improve Quality of Life
Adults with asthma showed improved quality of life and reduced asthmatic symptoms with regular practice of yoga, (reported on Medical News Today). Initial warm-ups, deep breathing and stretching done in a ten weeks regimen helps to improve overall health, daily life and well-being in those who suffer from asthma.
Here are some yoga poses that are beneficial to asthmatic patients:
Bridge Pose
Bridge pose, a Setu bandha sarvangasana, stretches your chest muscles and opens it. This action favors easier breathing and improves lung capacity.
Seated Spinal Twist
Seated spinal twist, or Ardha Matsyendrasana, energizes the spine and opens your chest. This supports to increase oxygen supply to the lungs and improve blood purification.
Corpse Pose
Corpse pose, shavasana, where body assume like a dead position impose relaxing impact on an overall body. As every single organ is in a relaxed state required less oxygen to carry out activities. This gives rest to respiratory system and hence asthmatic patient enjoy a calming effect on a body.
Alternate Nostril Breathing
Alternate Nostril Breathing, Anuloma Viloma purifies the nadies and brings balance between your body and mind, reported by Yoga Vidya Gurukul. Anuloma Viloma, the practice of alternate nostril breathing, ensures availability of more oxygen per breath. This helps to supply more oxygen and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Hence it is good for asthma patients who have lower oxygen supply and higher carbon dioxide retention.
Deep Breathing
Deep breathing, a practice of prolong inhalation and exhalation, makes breathing more efficient. It stretches the intercostal muscles of your ribs and diaphragm leading to chest expansion. Enhanced movement of a diaphragm gives a good massage to your lungs and improves total lung capacity.
Related Links
Read more of Dr. Minakshi Welukar.
See more tagged in health.
Art of Breathing
Yoga for Seniors
Yoga for Sciatica
Yoga for Vertigo
Yoga for Stress
Yoga for Anxiety
Yoga for Thyroid
Yoga for Smoking
Yoga for Insomnia
Yoga for Diabetes
Yoga for Addictions
Yoga for Depression
Power of Meditation
Misguided Meditation
Yoga for Osteoarthritis
Yoga and Staying Young
Yoga for Cancer Patients
Yoga and Coping with Death
Yoga for High Blood Pressure
Yoga to Improve Blood Circulation
Yoga for Breast Cancer Survivors
Yoga for Cancer: Feeling The Fear
Yoga for Cancer: Taking off the Mask
Best Yoga Poses for Cancer Therapy
Using Yoga To Repair Damaged IT Bands
Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Google Plus
A man becomes too much attached to money - money is accidental. It has nothing to do with essential life. A man becomes too much attached to his house or to his car, or to his wife, or to her husband, to children, to relationship. Relationship is accidental; it has nothing essential in it. It is not your real being. And in this century, the twentieth century, the problem has become too deep. There are people who call the twentieth century the accidental century - they are right People are living too much identified with the non-essential: money, power, prestige, respectability. You will have to leave all that behind when you go. Even an Alexander has to go empty-handed. Osho
Daily Horoscope
Add horoscopes to your site
Add Live Earth and Moon to your site
© 2009—2019 Lexii Networking Ltd.
Design by Albino Blacksheep with LexiYoga.
HTML5	About SiteMap Contact