Allergy – Anti-Aging, Beauty, Personal Care Hello, AMPs
How to Stay Young, Healthy and Good Looking
Skip to content
Anti-Aging, Beauty, Personal Care
Ideas, Tips and Tricks for Adults
Menu
Natural Anti Aging Skin care
Personal Care and Health
Sexy Sex Tips
Why Antiperspirant Can Really Make You Sick?
5 Top Tips Here to Burn Fat in Arms Remarkably
What Can Really Be The Greatest Barriers to Health?
What Can Really Fight Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Amazingly?
How to Really Overcome Insomnia and Pain No Risk?
Natural Home Remedies for Freckles
For Couples – How To Increase Pleasure From Sex
Contact Us
About
Tag: Allergy
Posted on November 16, 2017 November 16, 2017
How to prepare a homemade avocado and flaxseed mask for relieving sensitive skin?
CLICK HERE to find out How You Can Get Rid of Oily Skin FAST!
Sensitive skin is one that presents redness or irritation to factors such as sudden changes in weather and the use of some cosmetics. Since it has a dry tendency, it usually reacts negatively to exposure to the sun, heat, and contact with chemical agents.
Due to these characteristics, you should treat with mild and natural ingredients, since conventional products can cause allergic reactions.
Fortunately, we can make many homemade masks that, for a modest price, control their symptoms while leaving it smooth and moisturized.
In this opportunity, we want to propose an elaborate facial mask with avocado and flaxseed whose components give you a plus of nutrients and moisturizing.
Do not forget to try it!
Homemade avocado and linseed face mask for relieving sensitive skin
The natural avocado and linseed mask are a home treatment that can help control itching and excess dryness on the sensitive skin. These ingredients are significant sources of essential fatty acids and antioxidants, both necessary to keep the dermis hydrated and protected from external agents in the environment.
Its omega-3 fatty acid content, in addition to vitamin E, minimizes the negative impact of free radicals and toxins, which are primarily responsible for premature aging. In turn, it promotes cell regeneration and accelerates the healing process from superficial wounds.
On the other hand, it exerts a soothing and anti-inflammatory action that is very useful against the aggressions caused by the sun and some chemicals.
How to prepare this mask of avocado and flaxseed for relieving sensitive skin?
The preparation of the avocado and flaxseed mask is quite simple and does not require expensive or difficult to acquire ingredients. In fact, in addition to those already mentioned, only honey is added to it, known for its high nutritional value and its regenerating and moisturizing properties.
It is essential to buy 100% organic and high quality products, because, for example, there are refined honeys and linseed oil that do not have the same properties.
Ingredients for relieving sensitive skin
1 ripe avocado
3 tablespoons flaxseed oil (45 g)
2 tablespoons honey (50 g)
Preparation
Cut a ripe avocado and extract the pulp with the help of a spoon.
Put the fruit in a clean bowl and then mix it with flaxseed oil and honey.
Make sure that everything is well integrated and with a creamy texture.
Mode of application
This mask helps to eliminate the residues of the surface of your skin with the help of a neutral soap and warm water.
Then take a generous amount of the product and rub it all over the face until it forms a mask.
Be careful in areas such as the eye contour, since you should not make direct contact with these.
If you like, extend the cream to areas such as neck and décolleté to take advantage of its anti-wrinkle properties.
Relax in a calm environment and let the treatment work for 20 or 30 minutes.
After the recommended time, rinse with warm water while performing gentle circular movements to facilitate removal of the product.
Dry with a soft cloth and finish with a little tonic or moisturizer.
Repeat your application up to 2 times a week. Other considerations
Regular use of this mask can help reduce skin sensitivity caused by the sun and other environmental agents. However, its effects do not usually occur from the first application and it is necessary to use it regularly to obtain its benefits.
In addition, it is essential to take into account other care, since the skin requires:
Solar protection.
Daily hydration.
Cleansing and toning.
Regular exfoliation.
Essential nutrients (which can be obtained through good nutrition).
It is also worth mentioning that it is very important to review cosmetics for daily use, since some components of these are responsible for the alterations that the skin undergoes due to sensitivity. Generally, those who have to deal with this problem should opt for creams and makeup made from natural ingredients.
This mask has no adverse reactions. However, if you are following any treatment or use topical ointments, it is advisable to consult the dermatologist before using it on a recurring basis for relieving sensitive skin.
Watch this Video – Top 5 Home Remedies for sensitive skin
For more ideas on how to deal with oily, greasy skin, look no further than Patricia Everson’s Oily Skin Solution which will help you to understand what really causes oily skin and acne, and will help you come up with a lasting plan to keep your skin clear and beautiful. Stop spending your money on creams and pills that promise to help you clear your skin. These only address the surface issue of oily skin.
The Oily Skin Solution will go a step further and help you address the issues behind your blemishes so that you won’t need the expensive skin care anymore because you will have naturally clear, beautiful skin! To find out more, CLICK HERE
Related articles
8 moisturizing masks to keep your skin glowing all winter
Dementia prevention diet: Eating THIS 20p breakfast could protect YOUR brain from disease
The Ultimate Source of Complete Plant Protein – with Easy, Warming Fall Recipe. {Partner}
Patch for peanut allergies gives hope of cure
Posted on November 15, 2017 November 15, 2017
10 fantastic home remedies for dry skin on face
CLICK HERE to find out How You Can Get Rid of Oily Skin FAST!
Many people suffer from dry skin. During the winter, the dry, cold air saps whatever moisture was in the skin, out, cracking the skin and making it itchy and red.
During the summer, the sun gives the skin a healthy tan while at the same time removing moisture. Basic cleanliness and cleaning around the home can leave hands dry and cracked.
While most people don’t need to see a doctor for their dry skin, the itchiness, tightness, and discomfort it causes can drive one to distraction.
The Mayo Clinic recommends that those who can’t get their dry skin to clear up with normal remedies or “have large areas of scaling or peeling skin” should seek help from a doctor. For everyone else, one of these 10 home remedies may be the answer you’re looking for.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#1- Avoid long, hot showers
Although the heat feels so good, WebMD points out that the hot water removes your body’s natural oils. Rather than enjoying a steaming, hot shower, try a warm shower for no more than 10 minutes.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#2 – Avoid harsh soaps
Fragrant-free, antibacterial-free, alcohol-free soaps are the best. WebMD also recommends using cleansers that have ceramides as they help hold in the body’s moisture.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#3 – Moisturize while damp
Dr. Dee Anna Glaser says in Prevention that putting on the moisturizer while you’re still damp helps lock in moisture.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#4 – Apply milk
According to Dr. Susan C. Taylor from Prevention, applying a cloth or piece of gauze soaked in cold milk to extremely dry patches of skin for five minutes can help remove itch and inflammation.
If the problem is more widespread than just a patch, Dr. Dane in Reader’s Digest recommends taking a milk bath. Add one to three gallons of milk to lukewarm water and soak for 15 minutes. Be sure to rinse off well when finished.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#5 – Humidify
WebMD recommends keeping indoor humidity at 50 percent. If you live in a drier climate, using a humidifier to put moisture back into the air is a good idea.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#6 – Moisturize
Use a good moisturizer after bathing and throughout the day. Prevention recommends petroleum jelly, mineral oil, creams, and lotions containing shea butter, stearic acid, or glycerin.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#7 – Smart shaving
WebMD recommends always shaving with a shaving cream or gel and in the direction the hair grows. Avoid using a dull razor as you have to push harder, scraping off your body’s natural oils.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#8 – Sweeten your skin
Women’s Health Magazine says that raw honey will draw in moisture from the air. It recommends applying one teaspoon of raw honey on the dry area and letting it sit for 15 to 20 minutes before rinsing it off.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#9 – Moisturize with the “overnight cure.”
If you’re feeling really dry, Dr. Glaser of Prevention recommends taking a warm bath before bed and covering yourself in Crisco. Put on your pajamas and sleep, allowing the oil to soak into your skin.
Home Remedies for Dry Skin Tip#10 – Seal in the moisture
For areas that are really chapped, like elbows and heels, Dr. Glaser also recommends putting petroleum jelly or Crisco on just those spots and sealing it in with socks or a long-sleeved shirt.
Too many just accept having dry skin and have given up trying to battle it. With so many easy things to try at home, well-moisturized skin doesn’t have to stay outside your grasp.
Watch these Videos
How to get rid of dry skin on face-Home remedies for dry skin and rough skin-skin care treatment
Why You Have Dry Skin And What To Do About It
For more ideas on how to deal with oily, greasy skin, look no further than Patricia Everson’s Oily Skin Solution which will help you to understand what really causes oily skin and acne, and will help you come up with a lasting plan to keep your skin clear and beautiful. Stop spending your money on creams and pills that promise to help you clear your skin. These only address the surface issue of oily skin.
The Oily Skin Solution will go a step further and help you address the issues behind your blemishes so that you won’t need the expensive skin care anymore because you will have naturally clear, beautiful skin! To find out more, CLICK HERE
Related articles
Weight Gain Management For Women In Their 50’s and 60’s
Half of U.S. adults have high blood pressure in new guidelines
Peanut Allergy Gene: Scientists Find DNA Cause Behind Nut Allergies
A hospital saw 5 rare blood infections in just 5 weeks – and it was traced to a nurse who was siphoning opioids
Posted on October 13, 2017 October 13, 2017
Who Can Be Affected By Tonsil Stones?
Click on HERE to Find Out about this 100% Natural Tonsil Stones Remedy
Tonsil stones can affect a wide variety of individuals, regardless of gender or ethnicity. These pale, oval-shaped masses are made of food particles, dead cells, and microorganisms that combine with saliva on the surface of your palatine tonsils.
Tonsil stones occur when these materials decay and calcify into hardened pellets in mucosal pits along the surface of the tonsils; these pits are commonly referred to as the tonsillar crypts.
Although anyone can experience tonsil stones, this condition is most commonly seen in young adults who have a history of recurrent throat infections and inflammation.
Individuals who are most commonly affected by tonsil stones are those with large tonsils and deep tonsillar crypts, as they are more prone to the accumulation of food particles and debris near the back of their throat.
People are especially affected by tonsil stones if they suffer from recurrent episodes of tonsillitis, as repeated bouts of inflammation in the tonsils can facilitate the accumulation of debris in the tonsillar crypts.
Additionally, those who fail to maintain healthy oral-hygiene habits are also prone to the development of tonsil stones. This is due to the increased build-up of food particles and other forms of debris in the mouth.
If these substances are not removed regularly by frequent flossing, brushing, and rinsing with antibacterial mouthwash, tonsil stones are more likely to develop and may persist.
Recent studies have also demonstrated a link between persistent postnasal drip and tonsil-stone formation. This correlation is likely because of the increased mucus drainage into the throat experienced by these patients, which can facilitate the development of tonsil stones.
Although tonsil stones are most common in adults, they are not usually observed in children or infants.
Not all individuals who are affected by tonsil stones have noticeable symptoms. In fact, most people who experience this condition display no associated symptoms or side effects.
Some patients, however, suffer from symptoms such as a chronic sore throat, bad breath, earaches, difficulty swallowing, and visible white spots on their tonsils.
If you suspect you are affected by tonsil stones, see your doctor or an ear, nose, and throat specialist for an oral examination. He or she can suggest helpful at-home remedies and other forms of treatment.
Watch this Video – Why Do I Have Tonsil Stones?
This article is based on the book, “Tonsil Stones Remedy Forever” by Alison White, an ex-sufferer of tonsilloliths, also known as tonsil stones.
Tonsil Stones Remedy Forever is a guidebook that teaches you everything you need to know to get rid of painful, pesky and inconvenient tonsil stones without surgery.
This is a 7-day schedule to get rid of tonsil stones using natural remedies that are tried, tested and proven to work. If you are ready to take control of your health and to make the right decision regarding your tonsil stones, then click on Tonsil Stones Remedy Forever.
Related articles
Type 2 diabetes symptoms: THIS could be a warning sign of condition
Center for Family Health column: Prevention can help avoid gum disease
How to tell if you have celiac disease and are allergic to gluten
Peanut Allergy Gene: Scientists Find DNA Cause Behind Nut Allergies
Posted on August 15, 2017 August 15, 2017
Some people experience halitophobia (a fear of having bad breath)
Click HERE to Discover How You Can Get Yourself Cleaner, Fresher Breath and a MORE Kissable Mouth
Although many people suffer from chronic bad breath, also called halitosis, some people only experience the fear of having bad breath. This fear is referred to as halitophobia, and it occurs in those who think they have bad breath when they do not.
Individuals who suffer from halitophobia experience extremely overstated concerns or delusions about having bad breath. This condition is estimated to be present in nearly 25 percent of patients seeking professional assistance for halitosis, and almost one-half to one percent of adults may suffer from halitophobia.
For those with halitophobia, the fear of having others become aware of their perceived bad breath can lead them to demonstrate a variety of odd behaviors.
For example, someone with halitophobia may cover his or her mouth when talking or avoid interacting with others in social situations. Those with halitophobia can often fixate on cleaning their teeth and tongue and may constantly use gum, mints, mouthwashes, and sprays in an effort to reduce their distress at their apparent bad breath.
These coping behaviors can often be attributed to some form of obsessive-compulsive disorder which prompts specific self-conscious patterns.
Halitophobia is regarded as severe when the fear of having bad breath prompts individuals to experience impaired daily functioning such as social anxiety, depression, and withdrawal.
Initially, the most effective method of treating halitophobia is to get rid of any potential bad breath symptoms. See your dentist regularly for cleanings and exams, and make sure you maintain a thorough oral-hygiene routine of brushing and flossing teeth and gums.
If no underlying medical or hygienic reason for bad breath can be found by a dentist, those with halitophobia can often benefit from seeing a psychologist.
Only a clinical psychologist can officially diagnose and treat the psychosomatic aspects of halitophobia. Psychological counselling and treatment may address any causal reasons for the phobia and can propose ways to help alleviate distress.
Watch this Video – Halitophobia – bad breath overcome
This article is based on the book,” Bad Breath Free Forever” by James Williams. This special report contains vital information that will enable you to take control of your life, banish bad breath, save your sex life, career and personal relationships.
Never again will you suffer the humiliation of bad breath. Get yourself cleaner, fresher breath and a more kissable mouth. You will enjoy increased self-confidence and positive effects on your self-esteem.
To find out how you can do it, CLICK HERE
Related articles
How Eating Disorders Affect our Body Image
Coconut Oil as an Effective Eczema Alternative Treatment
Here are 5 Home Remedies for Seasonal Allergies
3 Teeth Whitening Tips to Whiten Yellow Teeth Naturally
Posted on April 5, 2016 April 5, 2016
How to Treat and Get Rid of Eczema?
Click HERE to Get Access to the Safe All Natural Way to End Eczema for Good
Some Ways to Treat and Get Rid of Eczema
How to Get Rid of Eczema on the Face
Those suffering with facial eczema understand the constant struggle to treat eczema, beat it and the frustration of how to get rid of eczema, not to mention the acute embarrassment of dealing with stares and questions regarding the unsightly rashes and scars.
Facial skin is highly sensitive and easily bruised and scarred. Having eczema rashes on the face can have intense itching, which often makes scratching almost unavoidable.
Below are some expert tips on how to get rid of eczema for good.
Seek professional help. A dermatologist should be seen if the condition is bad enough to warrant the use of medication but there are remedies, to treat and beat eczema, which can be used at home with the approval of your dermatologist.
Avoid allergens and irritants. The best and most effective way to treat and get rid of eczema is reduce the irritants or root cause, if it known. This will help lessen the symptoms.
Avoid harsh and highly abrasive cleansers. Facial cleansers, exfoliates and some creams and lotions may aggravate the skin causing itching, redness and burning.
So be aware when choosing facial products and learning how to get rid of eczema. Abrasive cleansers strip the skin as moisture, cause irritation and/or allergic reactions.
Use gentle soap. Opt for cleaners for sensitive skin or use glycerine soap. Oatmeal is a great exfoliator to treating and learning how to get rid of eczema. Use oats that are grounded to a powder and used as a moisturiser with a mixture of with rose water or witchazel.
Use moisturizers. Moisturise the face while it is damp, ensuring that it contains no fragrance, dyes and is perfume and alcohol free. Other ingredients in cosmetics cause irritation to the skin are alpha-hydroxy acids, glycolic acid, benzoyl peroxide, retinol, salicylic acid and alcohols.
To treat and beat eczema for infants and children, it is good to use aqueous lotion or cream to cleanse and moisturise facial skin.
Avoid excessive use of makeup products. To treat and learn how to get rid of eczema, keep make-up to a minimum and choose those made for sensitive skin.
Avoid acidic food products and sources. Foods with a high acid content irritate eczema on the face, around the mouth, e.g. eating sliced oranges. One great advice in learning how to get rid of eczema is cutting down acidic food into bite size pieces and use gloves when cutting or slicing.
Limit sun exposure. Avoid direct sunlight and apply sunscreen when you do spend time in the sun.
Use soft water. Hard water is another irritant and adding a water softener helps in lessening the irritation thus helping to treat and beat eczema.
How to Get Rid of Eczema on the Arms
There are no quick fixes when it comes to learning how to beat eczema but every sufferer would be grateful to have the itchiness stopped and the patches disappear.
Use prescribed treatments. Medications such as hydrocortisones used on a short-term basis help but as a long term treatment can cause thinning of the skin. Emollients are more advisable as they help reduce symptoms and heal the skin by locking in moisture.
Avoid harsh chemicals. When learning how to get rid of eczema, natural products are safer as they contain fewer chemicals reducing fewer opportunities for a reaction.
Wear soft, comfortable clothing. When eczema has affected the arms, it is best to wear clothing that is loose fitting and ensure that the fabric is not thick or scratchy or woollen.
Moisturize. Use creams and lotions which moisturise and apply them on damp skin to lock in moisture.
Apply topical creams. Cortisone creams can be applied to the rash on the arms to alleviate itching. Soaking in a lukewarm tub with Burow’s solution or oatmeal helps dry out the rash.
How to Get Rid of Eczema Scars Naturally
When eczema has been a lifelong struggle, scars from the lesions tend to appear on different parts of the body, including the face and arms.
The lesions are a source of real embarrassment for the sufferer especially when they are on open areas such as the face, neck or scalp.
Scars and marks can occur when lesions are scratched continuously and also due to extremely dried up and cracked skin long with untreated swellings.
Eczema scars have different characteristics such as shape, size and colour which are all largely dependent on the acuteness of the skin disorder.
Superficial scars that are brought about by excessive scratching appear as white to light pink scars and deep scars are caused by blisters appearing red or brown.
The good news is that there are ways to prevent, treat and heal and of course learn how to get rid of eczema scars. Prevention as they always say is better than cur.
The methods outlined below will help prevent the likelihood of unsightly scars.
Clean skin. Keep skin fresh and spotless since infection can set in during the scratch and itch cycle. Eczema tends to weaken the uppermost surface of skin and constant and excessive scratching causes the skin to break. Airborne infection can then set in.
Prevent infections with timely treatment. Infection causes wounds to remain open longer, thus increasing the risk for infection and scars develop as the body produces rubber-like collagen in order to fill the lesion. This causes the formation of scars.
Use Vitamin C and E. To help treat and beat eczema scars, the use of topical Vitamin C is advised as it promotes the development of fresh skin cells. It brightens the skin tone allowing the scar to subtly fade in with the natural skin tone.
A Vitamin C compress made at home and applied to scars by soaking a clean piece of cotton cloth in concentrated lemon juice and applying to the scars helps to treat and beat eczema cars.
Try exfoliating the skin before applying the treatment. Vitamin E lotions and creams are also effective learning how to get rid of eczema.
Hydrate skin with shea butter. Shea butter is great for keeping the skin hydrated. Regular application can help the skin actively revitalize and reconstruct the skin, thereby effectively assisting in the treat and beat regime as well as in learning how to get rid of eczema.
Use Baking soda. This common household item is perfect as an exfoliant for skin as it helps remove scarred and dead skin cells. In fact, it can be used prior to the use of a Vitamin C or E compress.
Create your very own homemade scrub using baking soda by simply mixing in 3 tablespoons of baking soda along with a single tablespoon water to produce a pasty mixture before applying it into the area with scars. Use circular movements when rubbing the paste in for about 2-3 minutes before rinsing.
Scar treatment creams can be purchased and used but ensure that they are made from natural ingredients and no chemicals are included which cause irritation to the skin. Learning how to get rid of eczema naturally is the best method to treat and beat eczema until a cure is found.
You can also watch a Video HERE to learn how to get rid of eczema naturally.
By Fay Spencer who is the author of 14 Days Eczema Cure which offers many ideas on how to treat eczema within 14 days by using readily accessible natural products and applying them in the right balance.
The 14 Days Eczema Cure is a comprehensive and holistic approach to curing eczema. This means that it is safe, natural, effective and 100% drug free. This will help to cure your eczema for good without any side effects which can happen if you use those expensive medications, potions or steroids.
For more information on the 14 Days Eczema Cure, click HERE.
Related articles
Natural Ways to Aid in Relieving Seasonal Allergy Symptoms
First Aid Kit Preparedness for March Break & Beyond!
Care for Your Skin with Exfoliation
Allergy Season Arrives Earlier Than Usual
Posts navigation
Page 1 Page 2 … Page 6 Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Revealing Here the Amazing Healing Benefits of Aloe Vera
What is the Best Way to Reverse IBS?
Revealing Here the 10 Amazing Uses of Aloe Vera
What is the Best Way to Achieve Good Colon Health?
What is the Best Way to Treat and Prevent Cancer?
What is the Best Way to Relieve Constipation?
What is the Best Way to Treat Acne Naturally?
How to Reap the Healing Benefits of Aloe Vera?
What is the Best Way to Control Blood Sugar Levels?
How to Harness the Benefits of Aloe Vera?
Recent Comments
mouse click the following internet site on Revealing Here the 12 Dirtiest Places to Take Note
Onlinedatingcoach on The Only Real Way to Get Rid of Stretch Marks
Brenna on 14 Home Remedies for Arthritis and Joint Pain
Latest Bollywood Song Download on 5 natural ingredients to combat oily skin
cat hat on What is the Best Way to Cure Vertigo?
Categories
Categories Select Category Anti-Aging & Beauty (497) For Couples (140) Hard Erection (36) Libido (75) Men Sexual Health (66) Oral Sex – Cunnilingus (24) Oral Sex – Fellatio (16) Orgasm (102) Personal Care and Health (840) Premature Ejaculation (23) Sex Ideas For Men (151) Sex Ideas For Women (26) Sex Positions (18) sex toys (12) Women Sexual Health (60)
No. of Visitors
Sumo
Subscribe to My Blog
Natural Anti Aging Skin care
Personal Care and Health
Sexy Sex Tips
Why Antiperspirant Can Really Make You Sick?
5 Top Tips Here to Burn Fat in Arms Remarkably
What Can Really Be The Greatest Barriers to Health?
What Can Really Fight Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Amazingly?
How to Really Overcome Insomnia and Pain No Risk?
Natural Home Remedies for Freckles
For Couples – How To Increase Pleasure From Sex
Contact Us
About
Proudly powered by WordPress