Remedies and Treatments for Vitiligo – News and Your Views
News and Your Views
BORN FREE, You have right to express your views.
Home
Disclaimer
Remedies and Treatments for Vitiligo
Posted on December 24, 2017 April 22, 2018 by MyNation 9 Comments
Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a disorder in which white patches of skin appear on different parts of the body. This happens because the cells that make pigment (color) in the skin are destroyed. These cells are called melanocytes (ma-LAN-o-sites). Vitiligo can also affect the mucous membranes (such as the tissue inside the mouth and nose) and the eye.
Vitiligo is an acquired, idiopathic disorder characterized by depigmented macules that result from damage to and destruction of melanocytes. Although the disease can occur at any age, 50% of patients acquire it before age 20 years.1 Two of the major theories of the pathogenesis of vitiligo are the autoimmune theory and the autocytotoxicity theory. The autoimmune theory speculates that patients with vitiligo form autoantibodies against melanocytes. The existence of antimelanocyte surface antigen antibodies has been demonstrated, and the severity of vitiligo has proven to be related to the amount of antibodies present. Vitiligo has been associated with antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases such as thyroid disease, pernicious anemia, diabetes mellitus, Addison disease, alopecia areata, and myasthenia gravis.
The autocytotoxicity theory postulates that melanocytes are destroyed either by themselves through self-generation of melanin precursors (or metabolites) or by keratinocytes, which release chemicals that generate oxidative stresses. It is believed that the normal defense mechanisms of melanocytes against oxidative stress and melanin precursors are defective in vitiligo melanocytes.
The cause is not known. Vitiligo may be an autoimmune disease. These diseases happen when your immune system mistakenly attacks some part of your own body. In vitiligo, the immune system may destroy the melanocytes in the skin. It is also possible that one or more genes may make a person more likely to get the disorder.Melanin is the pigment that gives the skin its characteristic color. Vitiligo is caused by a loss of pigment in the skin, due to destruction of pigment-forming cells known as melanocytes. The exact cause of the destruction of these cells is not known. One possible explanation might be that the body’s immune system destroys the cells, as in other autoimmune conditions.
People with certain autoimmune diseases (such as hyperthyroidism) are more likely to get vitiligo than people who don’t have any autoimmune diseases. Scientists do not know why vitiligo is connected with these diseases. However, most people with vitiligo have no other autoimmune disease.
Vitiligo may also run in families. Children whose parents have the disorder are more likely to develop vitiligo. However, most children will not get vitiligo even if a parent has it.
There is no known way to prevent or cure vitiligo. However, several methods, including cosmetics, re-pigmentation using UV light therapy, corticosteroid creams, depigmentation of unaffected skin areas, and skin grafting, can be used to improve the appearance of skin severely affected by vitiligo.
Systemic and topical psoralens with subsequent long-wave UV-A exposure (PUVA) is the most common treatment prescribed. Narrowband UV-B irradiation has also demonstrated some success in treating vitiligo.
Topical corticosteroids are most effective on small, newly depigmented areas. Potent topical corticosteroids can be used on the face, with ultrapotent steroids reserved for the body. Corticosteroids have been shown to be effective in only 57% of adult patients and only 64% of childhood vitiligo patients. The long-term use of topical steroids often causes irreversible dermoepidermal atrophy, manifesting with striae and telangiectasias.
As one my close friend is affected by this problem, so i started to search for the cure. i asked many people about cure search and research on this for months;
He tried all possible medicine for this problem and somehow after 25 years it stopped spreading. that’s from Saudi Medicine.
I will list all possible treament he done; hope some may useful for some needy.
Treatments for vitiligo
These are a number of remedies that can help decrease the visibility of vitiligo on the affected areas of the skin.
Phototherapy with UVB light: Exposing the affected skin to UVB lamps is a common treatment option.
Oral intake of folic acid, vitamin B12 and sun exposure could be helpful in treating vitiligo. One hundred patients with vitiligo were treated with oral folic acid and vitamin B12 after being informed that sun exposure might enhance repigmentation. They were requested to keep a record of sun exposure in summer and UVB irradiation in winter. The minimal treatment time suggested was 3-6 months but should be longer if improvement was achieved. Clear repigmentation occurred in 52 patients, including 37 who exposed their skin to summer sun and 6 who used UVB lamps in winter. Repigmentation was most evident on sun-exposed areas, where 38% of the patients had previously noted repigmentation during summer months. Total repigmentation was seen in 6 patients. The spread of vitiligo stopped in 64% of the patients after treatment. Folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation combined with sun exposure can induce repigmentation better than either the vitamins or sun exposure alone. Treatment should continue as long as the white areas continue to repigment. Further studies are needed to determine ideal minimal dosages of vitamins and UV exposure, as well as treatment time.
Tacrolimus a macrolide immunosuppressant that comes from the fungus Streptomyces tsukubaensis, is a novel treatment for vitiligo. Tacrolimus has also been used safely and effectively in immunologically based skin disorders, including psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosum, and alopecia areata. Oral tacrolimus has limited use in skin disorders because of its potentially severe adverse effects, including infections, hypertension, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, nephrotoxic and neurotoxic effects, and increased risk of neoplasia.
Nitrium Acidum: has shown some encouraging signs in the treatment of Vitiligo.
Kali Carbonicum: Potassium carbonate undergoes the process of potentization to evolve into a powerful deep acting homeopathic remedy called Kali Carb. Kali carb is a polycrest drug.
Lemna minor or wild duckweed is also used to cure white spots on the skin because it has the capability of reactivating the melanocyles that stops functioning. As the melanin levels in the body become normal, skin pigmentation gets corrected causing the white spots to disappear. Therefore, grind lemna minor to a fine paste, add honey to it and drink one teaspoon two times daily. These are some of best known herbal remedies for curing white spots on skin. Try them religiously and you are bound to get results.
Psoralea seeds: Psoralea(Babchi, Bakuchi). seeds soaked in the juice of ginger or tamarind seeds (to be replaced daily) for three days is perhaps the most time tested and best home remedy for vitiligo. Psoralea seeds essentially replicate the effect of the sun tanning and is effective in restoration of skin color. After three days of soaking, the seeds should be rubbed with hands to remove their shell and should be dried in shade before being grounded into a powder. One gram of this powder should be taken daily with fresh milk for 40 days without interruption. The ground seeds after soaking for a day and applied on the affected areas.
Psoralen NH(USA): Psoraalen NH Contains psoralen which sensitized skin & Rejuvenate melanocytes so they start Producing Pigment melanin (skin color) Naturally Without any side effect. This is said to be very effective; similar to Saudi medicine explained below.
Anti vitiligo oil(USA): most effective herbal remedy for the re-pigmentation of vitiligo. Re-pigmentation with Anti vitiligo oil is very fast, results are mostly visible within fortnight after regular application. Re-pigmentation with anti vitiligo oil is permanent. All the ingredients Coconut oil Psoralea corylifolia, European Barberry Root, Black cumin are 100 % natural have no chemicals.
Vitiligo Organics(UK)( Natural ) with Above contents
Viticare by Herba-Care: Based on traditional Egyptian medicine that has been tested for centuries
Lukoskin of Aimil Pharma by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)INDIA
Ruxolitinib (Jakafi):it is an oral drug that had a very rapid effect on vitiligo, improving the patient’s facial pigmentation from less than 1% to over 50% in just 4-5 months.
Hydrocotyle Asiatica: This is a remedy that is prepared from the plant called Indian Pennywort. The tincture from the whole fresh plant is used for the preparation of this remedy.
Sodium thiosulfate (Hypo): along with diet control and UVB light.
clovate 0.5 mg/g: Said to be cured some.
Hydrocotyle Asiatica : This ingredient stimulates pigmentation, and will reverse your symptoms.
Silica (Si):Silica is very effective in treating not only Vitiligo, but also Eczema. A Silica deficiency has been the cause of Vitiligo in many patients.
St John Wort: is commonly used to cure problems of skin discoloration. The process of using this herb is very simple; just boil its leaves and flowers in water and filter away the raw parts from the extract. Drink this juice extract three times every day after meals. You can even apply this juice in the affected area. This treatment is said to be very effective for curing white spots on skin and at the same time very safe.
Skin camouflageTaning or similar body colour remaking creams cover the patches temporarly.
Xiaobai mixture : Another traditional Chinese medicine mixture of 30g of walnut, 10g of red flowers, 30g of black sesame, 30g of black beans, 10g Zhi Bei Fu Ping (duckweed), 10g of Lu Lu Tong (sweetgum fruit, Liquidambaris fructus) and 5 plums.
Chromelin Complexion BlenderWaterproof skin dye used to darken light or unpigmented areas of skin affected by vitiligo.
Syphillinum: is frequently used in the homeopathic treatment of vitiligo.
Arsenicum Sulfuratum Flavum: This is one of the specific remedies used for the treatment of vitiligo in homeopathy.
Sepia:Inky Juice Of Cuttlefish, Sepia Succus, Sepia Officinalis
Khellin (Ammi visnaga). Khel is a Mediterranean plant with vital attributes that make it a beneficial home remedy for Vitiligo.
Depigmenting:Depigmentation is achieved by the use of strong topical lotions or ointments, like monobenzone, mequinol or hydroquinone.
Somraji Oil
Topical corticosteroids:Corticosteroid ointments are creams containing steroids.
Pigmento tablets: Contain Psoralea,Acorus calamus, Cassia tora and Melia azadirachta.
Hypopigmentation Vitiligo Support Powder Supplement
Natrum Muriaticum: Natrum Muriaticum is an interesting example of homeopathic medicine prepared from a common food substance, the common salt, sodium chloride. As a rule, the common salt undergoes a special procedure called potentization, whereby its inner healing power is activated to make it available for healing.
Radish Seeds: Radish seeds are very valuable in treating vitiligo. Approximately 40 grams of finely pounded radish seeds should be soaked overnight in a little amount of vinegar. The paste should be applied on white patches and allowed to dry for around two hours or until it dries and comes out as scales.
Roots Herbal remedies for White patches: Containing Basil, Bawachi (Psoralea Corylifolia), Nagarmotha (Cyperus Rotundus), Chaulmoogra Oil Plus, Aloe vera or cucumber Gel.
Vitiligo Treatment by Microdose- Tratamiento Vitiligo
Calcipotriene (Dovonex):Calcipotriene is a form of vitamin D used as a topical ointment. It may be used in conjunction with corticosteroids or light treatment.
Drugs affecting the immune system:Ointments containing tacrolimus or pimecrolimus (calcineurin inhibitors) can help individuals with smaller patches of depigmentation.
Ginkgobiloba: Extract of ginkgo biloba given in a dose of 40mg, thrice a day has been found effective in arresting the growth of progressive vitiligo.
Psoralen: Light therapy (UVA or UVB) can be combined with psoralen. therefore increasing the risk of skin cancer further down the line.
Skin grafts: A skin graft is a surgical procedure which entails carefully removing healthy patches of pigmented skin and using them to cover affected areas.
Basil leaves and lime juice: Basil leaves has vital anti-viral and anti-aging attributes which are beneficial for the skin. Basil leaves paste mixed with lime juice is also known to promote melanin production and is an effective home remedy for vitiligo.
Tattooing:Using a surgical instrument, the pigment is implanted into the skin.
Leadwort: Make a paste of leadwort root and water and apply over the white patches.
Calcarea Carb: One of the best Homeopathic medicines for Vitiligo with milky white spots on the skin.
Figs: Eat a lot of figs in the raw form , as it purifies the blood and improves its circulation. Roast the figs and powder them and add water to it , to make a paste and apply this paste on the white patches in the skin.
Arsenicum Sulfuratum Flavum: is used in the treatment of many different skin conditions. This compound will reverse your symptoms.
Sulphur: is a deep acting homeopathic medicine used frequently in treatment of varying skin diseases including vitiligo.
Black gram: Powder black gram and add water to make a paste. Apply this paste on the affected areas and wash off after it dries. Do this for about four to five months for better results.
Syphilinum is a powerful natural treatment that is very effective in treating skin conditions, as well as digestive problems.
Pseudocatalase
Pomegranate leaves and Neem leaves pounded together and taken oraly on empty stomach, Equal quantity of Mustard oil, Garlic oil, Neem Oil,Hemp oil,Kalongi oil and Bakuchi oil to be applied thrice daily after appling apple cider vineger.
Afamelanotide:In combination with UVB treatment afamelanotide seems to be effective.
Indian lilac leaves: Make juice of Indian lilac leaves and drink this daily twice for better results. Since this juice has essential minerals and compounds to effectively treat this condition.
Phosphoros: is a powerful ingredient, and will boost your immune system, heal your skin, and will increase your blood supply.
Ginger leaves: Take ginger leaves and powder it with poultice and apply this paste on the white patches.
Tofacitinib citrate: An arthritis drug – tofacitinib citrate – has shown some promise. It inhibits Janus kinase, an enzyme that seems to be implicated in the etiology of vitiligo.
Carcinocin: remedy used for its ability to treat the deep-seated constitutional problems that cause vitiligo instead of the symptoms.
Saudi Medicine: This is available in Saudi Arabia, at Al-Dana Center DAMAM; for free; only after showing photo of the patient; It is said to be very powerfull as told by a cured Patient.
Another herbal powder available in India is combination of many plants (eg:Psoralea Corylifolia,European Barberry Root,Cassia tora and Melia azadirachta(Indica),Khellin (Ammi visnaga).Black Caraway Seeds,(Black cumin seeds,,Black seeds (Nigella sativa,Kalavanji(URDU) Kalonji(HINDI)) are very useful in treating leucoderma.
Diet
If vitiligo is caused by nutritional deficiency, regulation of diet becomes of prime importance. The dietary regimen should include food rich in:
Vitamin B9 and B12: As per a study conducted on a larger number of vitiligo sufferers, it was found that 80% had a nutritional deficiency of Vitamin B9(folic acid) and vitamin B12. Cases of total repigmentation after 3 to 6 months of supplementation of these vitamins have also been recorded. Sufferers of
A moderate intake of food rich in copper has been found to be very effective home remedy for vitiligo. Food rich in copper include liver, oysters, cocoa powder, chocolates, nuts, calamari and lobsters, dried tomatoes, pumpkin seeds, watermelon seed, ground ginger, chill powder and soybean sprouts.
Vitiligo may thus stand in good stead by adding food naturally rich in vitamin B9(yeast extract, liver, dried herbs, sunflower seed) and Vitamin B12 (liver, milk, cheese, beef, chicken, mutton, pork, fish, ham, whole egg. and yoghurt into their diet.
Eating a variety of fish, meats, vegetables, and fruits is encouraged in the treatment of vitiligo.There is also further evidence for using antioxidants in the treatment of vitiligo. According to the clinical experiences of the authors, high doses of antioxidants (as part of combination treatment with other vitiligo therapies) have decreased the risk of abrupt deterioration of vitiligo. Patients with vitiligo are advised to select foods rich in antioxidants. These antioxidant-rich foods include pomegranates, grapes, oranges, lemons, grape fruits, pineapples, strawberries, kiwi, blueberries, nuts (e.g., walnuts, cashew nuts), sunflower seeds, black sesame, perilla seeds, olives, black beans, tomatoes, red clover, broccoli, ginger, beets, kale, red cabbage, peppers, spinach, Agaricus bisporus (common/crimini mushrooms), green tea, coffee, Almonds, apricot, beetroot, bitter-gourd, black pepper, cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, coconut, common salt, dates, drumstick, fenugreek, fig, grapes, horse-gram, mango, mutton, chicken, onion, pineapple, pistachio nuts, potato, pulses, rice, spinach, turnip, walnut and wheat . If the aforementioned foods are not available, patients can use commercial nutritional supplements. These include products containing genistein (black bean extract), green tea polyphenol, co-enzyme Q10, selenium, alpha-lipoic acid, omega-3 fatty acids, gamma linolenic acid, carotenoids, quercetin, vitamin C, and vitamin E, and others.
Although some specialists insist that vitamin C is harmful in vitiligo because of its skin whitening properties, we believe the advantages of vitamin C as an antioxidant outweighs the risk of hypopigmentation, and we recommend that patients to take vitamin C at a dosage of 0.5-2 grams daily.
Some studies have demonstrated that the level of vitamin B12, folic acid, copper, and zinc in patients with vitiligo may be lower than in unaffected individuals. Microelements such as selenium, copper, and zinc are essential in the diet or as supplements. It is preferable to take vitamin B12 along with folic acid due to the considerable synergistic effects of the pairing . It is recommended that patients obtain these nutrients from vegetables and fruits such as tomatoes, spinach, Agaricus bisporus, kiwi, or multivitamin supplements.
Food to avoid
Some Ayurvedic specialists insist that certain foods are harmful to the body when a patient is suffering from vitiligo. This includes tamarind, tomatoes, citrus fruits and juices, grapes, papayas, sour or pickled food items, tinned foods or drinks, chocolate and cocoa products, coffee, oily or spicy foods, blueberries, pears, eggs, dairy products, and fish. Traditional Korean medicine specialists do not recommend consuming pork, chicken, and wheat for patients with vitiligo. There are also homeopathic doctors who suggest that sour foods, ascorbic acid, non-vegetarian foods, and flavored drinks and foods with artificial colors may worsen the condition.
Avoid banana, beef, bottle gourd, brinjal, butter milk, cashew, curd, custard apple, egg, amla, groundnut, guava, lemon, lentil, melon, milk, orange, pomegranate, prunes, tamarind, tomato and water-melon in the diet.
It is by some Ayurvedic specialists insist that certain foods are harmful to the body when a patient is suffering from vitiligo. This includes tamarind, tomatoes, citrus fruits and juices, grapes, papayas, sour or pickled food items, tinned foods or drinks, chocolate and cocoa products, coffee, oily or spicy foods, blueberries, pears, eggs, dairy products, fish,banana, beef, bottle gourd, brinjal, butter milk, cashew, curd, custard apple, egg, amla, groundnut, guava, lemon, lentil, melon, milk, orange, pomegranate, prunes, tamarind, tomato and water-melon.
Traditional Korean medicine specialists do not recommend consuming pork, chicken, and wheat for patients with vitiligo. There are also homeopathic doctors who suggest that sour foods, ascorbic acid, non-vegetarian foods, and flavored drinks and foods with artificial colors may worsen the condition.
Food additives
Processed foods such as those found in cans or bottles, and preserved or tinned meats such as ham or sausage, contain various food additives including: dyes, color retention agents, defoaming agents, emulsifiers, flavors, fungicides, preservatives, sweeteners, thickeners, and chemicals introduced at the agricultural or animal husbandry phases, among many other possible ingredients.
All above i found on Internet and some are from others; if anyone want details about any names please Google it, you will get the details.
If anyone find/know working remedy please post it in Comments; that may helpful to some. if something is worked for someone that dosnt mean that it will work for others, but dont stop trying.
Is Vitiligo contagious?
Vitiligo is not contagious. It does not spread by contact, food or otherwise. It is also not a precancerous condition. Treat them with love, without being Possessive or rude; tolerate them coz they cannt handle nonsense.
This page is Dedicated to xxx
Related posts:
African Tea Offers Promising Treatment For Type-2 Diabetes
HEMP(Cannabis) A Miracle Plant.
how to ‘boost’ men’s fertility
Posted in Uncategorized Tagged Addison disease, Afamelanotide, Aimil Pharma, alopecia areata, Ammi visnaga, and myasthenia gravis, Anti vitiligo oil, anti-aging, anti-viral, Arsenicum Sulfuratum Flavum, arthritis drug, autoimmune disease, Babchi, Bakuchi, Basil leaves, Black gram, Calcarea Carb, calcineurin inhibitors, Calcipotriene, Carcinocin, clovate 0.5 mg/g, common salt, corticosteroid creams, Corticosteroid ointments, corticosteroids, cure vitiligo, depigmented macules, Depigmenting, diabetes mellitus, Dovonex, DRDO, dried herbs, Figs, folic acid, Ginger leaves, Ginkgobiloba, homeopathic, Homeopathic medicines, Hydrocotyle Asiatica, hydroquinone, hyperthyroidism, hyroid disease, idiopathic disorder, immune system, Indian lilac leaves, Jakafi, Kali Carb, Kali Carbonicum, Khellin, Leadwort, Lemna minor, leucoderma, Light therapy, lime juice, liver, Lukoskin, melanocytes, mequinol, milky white spots, monobenzone, mucous membranes, myasthenia gravis, Natrum Muriaticum, Neem leaves, Nitrium Acidum, pathogenesis, pcos, pernicious anemia, Phosphoros, Phototherapy, pigment, pimecrolimus, polycrest drug, Pomegranate leaves, potentization, Pseudocatalase, Psoralea seeds, Psoralen, Radish Seeds, Ruxolitinib, Saudi Medicine, Sepia, Silica, Skin camouflage, skin cancer, Skin graft, sodium chloride, Sodium thiosulfate, St John Wort, Sulphur, sunflower seed, Syphilinum, Syphillinum, tacrolimus, Tattooing, thyroid disease, Tofacitinib citrate, Topical corticosteroids, UV light therapy, UVA, UVB, UVB light, UVB treatment, vit-ill-EYE-go, Vitamin B12, vitamin B9, Vitiligo, vitiligo melanocytes, wild duckweed, Xiaobai mixture, yeast extract
Post navigation
← We are the World – Sung by Various Artists
BLACK Money and DEMONetisation →
9 thoughts on “Remedies and Treatments for Vitiligo”
Neha walia says:
July 23, 2016 at 4:25 pm
I have suffering from vitiligo since I was 13years old .nd tried many treatment steroid, ointments nd puva therapy also.nt they all are temporary..but I also had very bad immunity..now I’m tired to myself ..disease is all over in my body but small and looks very ugly me.plz help me out.. I’m unmarried nd very stressed..plz help me whta kind of medicine I should take.plz help me plz..
Reply
ADMIN says:
August 14, 2016 at 2:57 am
Every medicine works differently for person to person;
most of the commercial medicines will not work;
After talking to many i found only Clovate 0.5mg and Saudi medicine worked on 2 patients.
we believe its a autoimmune problem
you should improve your immune system and stress less;
take neem leave powder and aloevera juice regularly;
also take sugar cane molases/beet juice to improve your health anemic condition.
its better to take thriphala churna on empty stomac, which will improve your internal body functions.
avoid junk food and milk products
take bakuchi seeds early morning
try clovate 0.5mg if you have not tried.
also try folic acid, vitamin B12, and vitamin E these are not medicines but improve/boost other medicines power.
Try Lukoskin of Aimil Pharma by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)INDIA
Avoid citric things. and take fresh raw salad and fruits mostly
learn to live with it boldly
Dont be broken hearted and stress if any attempt fails; we know you have tried and experimented many medicines.
search on internet for the details we wrote.
try this at least 6 months, you should get some improvement for sure.
take this as routine, not as medicine
best of luck.
update us.
Reply
Heshish says:
October 18, 2016 at 5:13 pm
Im 19yr old boy suffering from vitligo since 4yrs i have tried many but of no use but by these its under control
I just want to know about clovate 0.5mg/g cream and saudi medicine
Currently im studying 2nd yr MBBS
So please help me with these
I wil be thankful to u
Reply
ADMIN says:
October 19, 2016 at 2:43 am
Dear Heshish.
Clovate cream you can find in India.
Saudi medicine you can find building next to Al-Dana building in Damam; its charity centre where they distribute after seeing your photo and details. this one is tested and proved by my test subject.
its not what you apply and take orally, its all about having positive attitude; and diet.
Find clovate, change ur diet, raw is better, improve ur immune system, daily take one spoon of neem leaf powder before breakfast,avoid all junk food and milk/milk products. dont stress out, for sure you will get better results
Best of luck
Reply
Pratima says:
July 4, 2017 at 5:23 pm
sir ,I am suffering vitiligo since last 10 yrs and above ….i am using bakuchi ,fig ,chakkod ,sirsa ,,all four of this seed i used these seeds soaked then in water next morning i drink this water and these seed make them into paste and apply on white patches …i drink one glass of bitter gourd juice with ginger daily …but sir its not working process is very slow i want to increase the process please help me out what to do and how to increase this process ..can i have supplements for vitamins pls prescribe me the name of the supplement for vitiligo patient …..
Thankyou
Reply
ADMIN says:
July 16, 2017 at 2:18 am
please try clovate 0.5 mg/g and UVB light
Reply
bhuvana says:
September 14, 2017 at 10:00 am
sir my daughter 7 yrs old , in her elbow versi color or white patch i don t know clearly, in round shape, any tips to find what kind it was
Reply
ADMIN says:
October 2, 2017 at 4:37 pm
show her to skin specialists, if its not growing or spreading no need to worry, still its better to boost her immune, give her aloe vera juice and one spoon neem leaves powder everyday, stop milk and its products
Reply
Robin says:
June 13, 2018 at 2:30 pm
Thanks for sharing the informative post on natural remedies to cure vitiligo. You can also ginger to the awesome list.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Not found ...? HOW TO WIN 498a, DV, DIVORCE; Search in Above link
All Law documents and Judgment copies
Landmark Judgments
Important SC/HC Judgements on 498A IPC
Laws and Bare Acts of India.
Recent Comments
Robin on Remedies and Treatments for Vitiligo
MyNation on Penny worth Millions
Linda sparks on Penny worth Millions
Linda sparks on Penny worth Millions
Bimbiri on Common words in Tulu, Kannada, Konkani,Telugu,Malayalam,Marathi,Tamil, Gujarati
STUDY REPORTS
Dowry Law Proposal.
Report on 498A.
Report on DVAct
Report on Indian Husbands.
eMpower Women by DiseMpowering Men
MyNation Proposal for Paternity Act
Study Report on Marital Rape
MISUSE OF ANTI-DOWRY LAWS IN MARITAL DISPUTES
Home Remedies N Tips
Homemade oil for Soft Smooth beautiful Skin
How to remove gum from hair
Mirror, Window, and Faucet cleaner
Mineral and Rust Stains
Sheer Curtains Need A Special Cleaning?
FREE LEGAL ADVICE
REGISTER
FORGOT PASSWORD
CHANGE PASSWORD
GROUP RULES
Landmark Judgments
Examination Of Witnesses In The Absence Of Accused Is A Curable Irregularity
Passport cannot be suspended/revoked for non-appearance in Investigation proceedings under FEMA
Sec.125 Paternity and DNA test
498A IPC And DP Act Not Sustainable When The Complaint Is Filed Long After Divorce
Divorce Petition Can Be Filed Through Power Of Attorney
Law Victim
Stitching
Support My Ideas
Alcoholic Family
Oil Massage
She stopped breast feed; to save her Beauty.
MyNation Recepies
Indian Spices names in Other Languages
Maidha Halwa
Sweet Ragi Dosa
Chilli Bajjya
Mirchi ka Salan
News
List News of Abusive Wife/Women
List News of Abusive Mother/Women
How to suppress Men with Income Tax – No Father’s name
PIG MAN – SeX with PIG
Punishment for False dowry case, No School Fee for Holiday months
Judgments
Firoz vs State Of Kerala on 10 April, 2019
Nafees vs State Of U.P. on 16 April, 2019
Prasad Gangadhar Turakane vs Manisha Navnath Davange And … on 15 April, 2019
Smt. Mithu Chakraborty Nee … vs Sri Suman Chakraborty on 17 April, 2019
Samar Mandal vs Unknown on 11 April, 2019
Copyright © 2019 News and Your Views
Design by easydna.com
×
Free Legal Help, Just WhatsApp Away
We are Not Lawyers, but No Lawyer will give you Advice like We do
Please read Group Rules – CLICK HERE, If You agree then Please Register CLICK HERE and after registration JOIN WELCOME GROUP HERE
We handle Women Centric biased laws like False Sectioin 498A IPC, Domestic Violence(DV ACT), Divorce, Maintenance, Alimony, Child Custody, HMA 24, 125 CrPc, 307, 312, 313, 323, 354, 376, 377, 406, 420, 497, 506, 509; TEP, RTI and many more…
Related posts:
African Tea Offers Promising Treatment For Type-2 Diabetes
HEMP(Cannabis) A Miracle Plant.
how to ‘boost’ men’s fertility
Web DesignWeb Designmensingh