Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) - Alzheimers disease, anaemia, anorexia, blood pressure, dementia, obsessive compulsive disorder, restlessleg syndrome, sickle cell,
About Us
Health Issues
Contact Us
Search
Illnesses Remedies
Home Page
Illnesses & Conditions
Herbal Remedies
Home Remedies & Cures
Vitamins & Supplements
About Us
Health Issues
Contact Us
A - Z of Vitamins & Supplements
Help: To find Illnesses or Conditions associated with a Vitamin or Supplement. Select a letter from A - Z of Vitamins & Supplements. Or Scroll lists. Or Use Search.
Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) Remedies
BACK
Folic acid (Vitamin B9), known as Folate, helps the body form healthy red blood cells, reduce the risk of central neural tube defects in unborn babies.
Sources of Folic Acid: Chickpeas; Peas; Asparagus; Spinach; Liver; Brussels Sprouts, Broccoli and fortified breakfast cereals. By eating a varied and healthy, balanced diet, most people will get sufficient amounts of folic acid. If pregnant or trying for a baby speak to your doctor about taking a Folic Acid supplement.
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Alzheimer’s Disease: 800 mcg (8 milligrams) a day is necessary to reduce homocysteine levels.
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Anaemia: A deficiency of folic acid produces the same oversized red blood cells as a vitamin B12 deficiency. One of the most common causes of folic acid deficiency anaemia is simply not getting enough in the diet. Pregnant women are most at risk for folic acid anaemia because the need for folic acid increases by two-thirds during pregnancy. Adequate folic acid intake is essential from the start of pregnancy because it protects against spinal defects in the fetus. Anaemic people should take 400 mcg of folic twice a day.
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Anorexia: Folic Acid can boost appetite. Take one tablet of 400 microgram daily until condition improves
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Blood Pressure: Folic Acid also known as Foliate is a B vitamin necessary for the formation of red blood cells. It may help to lower high blood pressure in some people, possibly by reducing elevated homocysteine levels. Take 400 mcg daily.
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Dementia: Folic acid can help in the prevention and management of dementia. Take one tablet of 300 microgram daily for 4 weeks to improve symptoms
Folic Acid – Vitamin for Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: (400 mcg) once a day.
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Pregnancy: A deficiency of folic acid produces the same oversized red blood cells as a vitamin B12 deficiency. One of the most common causes of folic acid deficiency anaemia is simply not getting enough in the diet. Pregnant women are most at risk for folic acid anaemia because the need for folic acid increases by two-thirds during pregnancy. Adequate folic acid intake is essential from the start of pregnancy because it protects against spinal defects in the fetus. A woman should start consuming 400 mcg of folic acid a day at least one month before she becomes pregnant and the entire time while she is pregnant.
Folic Acid – Vitamin for Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS): Folic Acid alleviates some of the physical sensations associated with restless leg syndrome. Folic acid is available in tablet form. Take 100 milligrams once daily.
Folic Acid - Vitamin for Sickle Cell: Take folic acid supplements daily, and choose a healthy diet. Bone marrow needs folic acid and other vitamins to make new red blood cells. Your doctor may recommend a folic acid supplement. You can increase the number of vitamins you eat each day by choosing a diet that focuses on a variety of fruit and vegetables, as well as whole grains.
Alzheimer's Disease
Anaemia
Anorexia
Blood Pressure
Dementia
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
Pregnancy
Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS)
Sickle Cell Anemia
Comments
Add Your Comment:
Name:
Email:
Health Issues
03
April
Antioxidants and a lower risk of age-related cataracts (ARC).
A $5.7 billion global medical bill to restore sight for the estimated 45 million people with cataracts could be slashed in half by a diet rich in colourful fruits and vegetables, according to an international study.
VIEW MORE
17
Dec
HFMA lodges formal complaint over ‘irresponsible’ BBC Horizon programme prog
UK-based trade group the Health Food Manufacturers Association (HFMA) has written a formal letter of complaint to the BBC about a controversial BBC2 Horizon programme about the food supplements industry.
VIEW MORE
03
Oct
BPA-Free, but Not Toxic-Free - Stop poisoning ourselves
Consumers are demanding BPA-free products, but the alternatives are no safer. Despite this alarming data, nearly 81% of Americans have detectable levels of BPS in their urine.
VIEW MORE
Weights & Measures
Herbal Terminology
Herbal Preparations
Herbal Research
Privacy Policy
Home
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer
Copyright
Herbal and Natural Shop
Legal
Health Issues
Devinia Sookia
FAQs
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Natural Remedies and Cures. All rights reserved.
DCP : Website Design