13 Essential Oils for Scars: How-to, Choosing an Oil, and More
Newsletter
Can You Reduce the Appearance of Scars with Essential Oils? 13 Oils to Try
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN on April 17, 2018 — Written by Emily Cronkleton
13 Oils
How to use
Buying tips
In pregnancy
Takeaway
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Essential oils and skin health
Essential oils may help reduce the appearance of scars. They work by regenerating the skin cells of damaged skin.
Essential oils support skin health by balancing skin tone, and reducing redness and inflammation. Some oils also have wound-healing properties, which may help prevent scar tissue from forming. You can experiment to see which oils or combination of oils bring you the best results.
Essential oils that may reduce the appearance of scars
1. Rosehip seed oil
Rosehip seed oil may be used to improve the condition of your skin, and treat scars, wrinkles, and acne. Researchers in a 2015 study found that rosehip seed oil improved the appearance of post-surgical scars. Participants who used the oil twice daily for 12 weeks experienced significantly less discoloration, atrophy, and redness.
You may start to see results after six weeks of use. It’s possible for rosehip oil to cause irritation or an allergic reaction. Do not use if you have diabetes, kidney stones, or anemia.
Rosehip seed oil is relatively inexpensive and can be purchased online.
2. Vitamin E oil
Vitamin E oil may prevent scarring by helping your skin to retain moisture while boosting collagen production. It also helps to protect your skin from damage caused by free radicals. Research demonstrating the effectiveness of vitamin E oil in treating scars has been mixed. A few studies have shown it to significantly improve the cosmetic appearance of scars. Additional research is needed.
You may start to notice results after a few weeks of use, but you can continue to use vitamin E for a few months. Vitamin E may cause an allergic reaction, rash, or itchiness. Vitamin E oil is an affordable option that’s available online.
3. Helichrysum essential oil
Helichrysum essential oil has anti-inflammatory, antifungal, and antibacterial properties that may be useful in healing skin.
Helichrysum oil contains an anti-inflammatory substance called arzanol, which plays a part in healing wounds. It also has antioxidant properties that can help to prevent scarring by regenerating new cells and preventing the accumulation of free radicals. This oil is also said to relieve skin rashes and infections, and increase collagen production.
You may begin to see results within a few months of consistent daily use. Helichrysum oil may cause sun sensitivity. Don’t use this oil if you’ve had a recent surgery or are at risk for internal hemorrhages.
Helichrysum may be more expensive than some of the other options, so you may want to start with a smaller jar to see if you like the oil before buying it in larger quantities. You can purchase it online or at your local natural foods store.
4. Frankincense oil
Frankincense oil helps to soothe skin, even out skin tone, and kill bacteria, which makes it useful for treating scars. Frankincense oil may promote the growth of new skin cells, tighten the skin, and reduce the appearance of scars. Also, the active component, , has been shown to have anti-inflammatory benefits.
You may start to see results after a month of using frankincense oil. This oil may cause skin irritation and abdominal issues. Do not use frankincense oil if you take blood thinners. Frankincense is a mid-range essential oil and may be purchased online.
5. Geranium oil
Geranium oil is useful in treating scars by relieving inflammation, evening out skin tone, and encouraging new cell growth. Its antiseptic, antimicrobial, and antibacterial wound-healing properties may help scars to be less visible. Research from 2013 found that rose geranium oil is effective in preventing and treating inflammatory skin conditions.
It may take at least a month to see results with geranium oil. Use geranium oil with caution if you have high blood pressure or a risk of cardiovascular diseases. Geranium oil is inexpensive and may be purchased online.
6. Lavender oil
Lavender oil may help to prevent scarring by promoting cell and tissue growth. It has antibiotic, antioxidant, and antiseptic properties. According to a , lavender oil demonstrates wound-healing activity and shows potential for use as a natural treatment to help repair damaged skin tissues.
Another 2016 study found that lavender oil promotes wound healing by increasing collagen and regenerating tissue, especially in the early phase of treatment. Topical application of lavender oil helped to speed up wound closure and promoted wound shrinking.
You may see results in as little as one week. Lavender is especially useful in the beginning phase of scar treatment. It has the potential to irritate the skin and cause allergic skin reactions. Lavender is a mid-range essential oil that is available online.
7. Carrot seed oil
Carrot seed oil has been shown to have antibacterial and antifungal activities which could be useful in treating scars. This oil may be especially useful in treating older scars.
It may take up to a month before you see results from using carrot seed oil. This oil has the potential to increase sun sensitivity and cause contact dermatitis.
Carrot seed oil is inexpensive and may be purchased online.
8. Cedar wood oil
The rejuvenating effect of cedar wood oil shows potential in treating skin conditions including scars. It has been to reduce inflammation and has a pain-relieving effect. Cedar wood oil is also useful in treating acne. More research is needed to confirm and expand upon these findings.
You may start to see results after a month of consistent use. Cedar wood has the potential to cause allergic reactions.
Cedar wood oil is an affordable option and is available for purchase online.
9. Hyssop oil
Hyssop essential oil has antiseptic, antifungal, and antibacterial properties that aid in repairing damaged skin. Hyssop oil has been shown to have activity. It may help heal wounds, prevent infections, and reduce the visibility of wrinkles and acne scars.
Research from 2011 suggests that the antioxidant activity of hyssop oil shows potential for medicinal use. Further research is needed to expand upon these findings and find out exactly how hyssop can help to treat scars.
Use hyssop oil consistently for a few months to see results. Do not use hyssop oil if you have epilepsy or hypertension. It should not be used in high doses.
Hyssop is a mid-range essential oil that you can buy online.
10. Coconut oil
Coconut oil contains fatty acids and micronutrients that may help to reverse skin damage. Its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties help to prevent and heal skin conditions. Coconut oil may also increase collagen production, help the skin to retain moisture, and soften the skin. Research from 2010 found that topical application of coconut oil on wounds in rats had a positive effect on the healing process. This was due in part to its antioxidant activity and effect on collagen production. More research is needed on the topical application of coconut oil in humans.
You may notice results after as little as 10 days of consistent use. Coconut oil has the potential to irritate the skin or cause an allergic reaction. It’s an affordable option that’s available online.
11. Tea tree oil
Tea tree oil has enormous healing potential due to its antiviral, antibacterial, and antifungal effects. The of tea tree oil may accelerate the wound-healing process. It also has antiseptic and anti-inflammatory properties and can boost immunity, which is helpful when you’re caring for wounds and scars.
indicates that tea tree is a promising option to topically treat inflammatory disorders and heal wounds.
It may take up to a month of consistent use before you see results using tea tree oil. Use tea tree oil with caution if you have any allergies or autoimmune conditions. It has the potential to cause an allergic reaction. Tea tree oil may not be appropriate for use in children.
Tea tree oil is relatively inexpensive and is available for purchase online.
12. Almond oil
Almond oil has numerous benefits to the skin and may help to reduce the appearance of scars. Almond oil contains vitamin E, which helps hydrate, soothe, and moisturize dry or damaged skin. There’s some evidence that almond oil can rejuvenate the skin, improve complexion, and even out skin tone. It also has anti-inflammatory properties that help skin to heal. More research is needed to understand its potential in healing scars.
You may start to see results after a month of using almond oil. Do not use almond oil if you have diabetes. Avoid use for two weeks before any scheduled surgery.
Almond oil is an affordable option that’s available online.
13. Neroli oil
Neroli oil is used for a variety of skincare conditions and can be useful in treating scars. Neroli oil has been shown to reduce pain and inflammation. Its make it a powerful healer. It also has antifungal properties. More research is needed to discover how neroli oil can be used to treat skin conditions and scars.
You may see results after a month of consistent use of neroli oil. It has the potential to cause skin irritation and allergic reactions. Neroli oil is one of the more expensive essential oils and can be purchased online.
Summary of the different essential oils
Essential oil Length of use to start seeing results Additional benefits
Rosehip seed oil 6 weeks may improve wrinkles and acne
Vitamin E oil 3 or more weeks may boost collagen production
Helichrysum essential oil 3 or more months anti-inflammatory, antifungal, and antibacterial properties
Frankincense oil 1 month may improve skin tone and kill bacteria
Geranium oil 1 or more months antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties
Lavender oil 1 week antibiotic, antioxidant, and antiseptic properties
Carrot seed oil 1 month antibacterial and antifungal properties
Cedar wood oil 1 month anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties; may treat acne
Hyssop oil 3 or more months may help heal wounds, prevent infections, and reduce the appearance of wrinkles and acne scars
Coconut oil 10 days may soften the skin and reduce inflammation
Tea tree oil 1 month antiviral, antibacterial, and antifungal properties
Almond oil 1 month contains vitamin E; may soothe and moisturize skin
Neroli oil 1 month may reduce pain and inflammation
How to use essential oils
Diluted essential oils should be applied topically to the affected area. Never ingest essential oils.
Essential oils must first be diluted in oils called carrier oils since they can irritate your skin if used in an undiluted state. You can test a few carrier oils to see which ones work best for your skin and which scent you prefer. Some carrier oils you may use are:
grapeseed oil
avocado oil
sweet almond oil
olive oil
apricot kernel oil
jojoba oil
hazelnut oil
Do not use oils on an open wound, burn, or skin that is extremely sensitive. Inflamed skin is more likely to react to the oils. Serious wounds may require medical attention. In this case, you should see your doctor to see if another treatment is necessary.
To use essential oils:
Dilute a few drops of your chosen essential oil into a carrier oil. You can use fewer drops of essential oil for sensitive skin.
Apply this mixture to the affected area several times per day.
You don’t need to wash off the oil. Bathe how you normally would, following your regular schedule.
You’ll yield best results if you constantly apply the oils for at least a few months.
It may take up to a year for a scar to completely heal.
Tips for buying oil
Look for pure, organic essential oils that are 100 percent therapeutic-grade. They shouldn’t contain any additives. Find a reputable brand that you trust. The company should be upfront about their practices and be able to answer any questions you may have.
High-quality oils are less likely to create an adverse response and are more likely to generate the best results.
Essential oils and pregnancy
Always talk to your doctor before using essential oils for any reason if you’re pregnant. Certain essential oils should be avoided if you’re pregnant. This page contains a list of essential oils that are safe to use during pregnancy.
Takeaway
Scars may not disappear completely, but the likelihood that they’ll be less noticeable or visible following consistent use of essential oils is promising. Don’t expect immediate or drastic results. It may take up to six months before you begin noticing any changes to your scar. Larger scars from surgery or wounds may take longer to heal.
Experiment with a few different oils to discover which one works best for you. You may discover that the aromatic qualities of essential oils are equally beneficial to your wellbeing. Always talk to your doctor before starting to use essential oils.
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN on April 17, 2018 — Written by Emily Cronkleton
related stories
What Are Essential Oils and Do They Work?
Treatment Options for Facial Scars
Can I Use Vitamin E Oil for Scars?
What Treatments Fade or Reduce Chickenpox Scars?
The 4 Best Vitamins for Your Skin
READ THIS NEXT
What Are Essential Oils and Do They Work?
Written by Helen West, RD (UK)
Essential oils are claimed to have many healthy benefits. This article explains everything you need to know about essential oils and their health…
READ MORE
Treatment Options for Facial Scars
Medically reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, College of Medicine
Birthmarks, freckles, and moles are among the individual characteristics that make us unique, like the wood grain in a piece of burled walnut.
READ MORE
Can I Use Vitamin E Oil for Scars?
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
There's a popular belief that rubbing vitamin E oil onto your acne scars can help them heal quickly, and reduce their visibility. Ointments and creams…
READ MORE
What Treatments Fade or Reduce Chickenpox Scars?
Medically reviewed by Catherine Hannan, MD
We'll share some tips for fading chicken pox scars, including natural products, over-the-counter options, and professional treatments.
READ MORE
The 4 Best Vitamins for Your Skin
Medically reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD
Taking care of your skin should be an essential part of your health regimen. It is, after all, your body's largest organ. Learn about vitamins D, C, E,
READ MORE
How to Use Carrier Oils
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Carrier oils are used to dilute essential oils for use in aromatherapy, massage, and skin care. Here's how to select the right carrier oil, blend, and…
READ MORE
12 Essential Oils to Help Heal or Prevent Stretch Marks
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Stretch marks usually fade on their own over time. But if you want to speed up the process, these essential oils may be the key to stretch mark-free…
READ MORE
Cancer Took My Leg, but Not My Life — How I Learned to Love My Body Again
Medically reviewed by Christina Chun, MPH
At 14, Mama Cax was diagnosed with bone and lung cancer, resulting in an amputation of her leg. This is her story about finding strength in her scars.
READ MORE
Why Does the Smallpox Vaccine Leave a Scar?
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
The smallpox scar is small, round, and lower than the skin around it. But unless you were born before 1972, you probably don't have one. Here's why.
READ MORE
Dermarolling Is the Prickly Time Machine That’ll Erase Your Scars and Stretch Marks
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
Dermarolling, aka microneedling, is the art of erasing unwanted acne scars, wrinkles, and stretch marks. See how to do it right, to avoid bad side…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 146189 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582