Black Soap Ingredients | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Beauty
Beauty Basics
Black Soap Ingredients
Lori Myers
About the Author:
Lori Myers
Lori Myers hails from Upstate New York, in the Adirondack region. She has written for the "Schenectady Gazette" and began writing professionally in 1995. She is a certified personal trainer and is currently expanding her education in computer programming. Myers obtained her bachelor's degree in journalism and her master's degree in nutrition from Syracuse University.
Black soap hails from West Africa and is quite popular due to its powerful effects on the skin. It is known by many names, including "ose dudu," a name used by the Yoruba people of western Nigeria that literally means "black soap." The color of black soap can range from light brown to deep black, depending on the method of production. Black soap contains ingredients that are beneficial for the skin.
Palm Oil
Palm oil is an ingredient in black soap that is rich in antioxidants. It contains both tocopherols and tocotrienol, both forms of vitamin E, which is used in the treatment of acne and eczema. Palm oil also contains carotene. Carotene, tocopherols and tocotrienol all help reduce cell damage caused by toxic substances and environmental pollution.
Palm Kernel Oil
Palm kernel oil is another ingredient in black soap and is extracted from the fruit seeds of the African palm tree. It is used to increase the lather and hardness of soap and is high in lauric acid, which helps to destroy organisms like fungus, bacteria and viruses. Palm kernel oil is similar in nature and properties to coconut oil.
Cocoa Butter
Black soap also contains cocoa butter, a natural fat extracted from the cacao bean. Vitaminstuff.com notes that cocoa butter is a very good moisturizer and readily absorbed by the skin. It is often recommended for the treatment of eczema and dermatitis.
Shea Butter
Shea butter, also known as karite butter because it is made from the nuts of the karite tree, is another ingredient in black soap. Shea butter is used to heal burns, scars, dermatitis, psoriasis and sores, as well as dandruff and stretch marks. It can diminish wrinkles by moisturizing the skin while increasing circulation and promoting cell renewal. It contains cinnamic acid, which helps to protect the skin from harmful UV rays.
Lye Component
Black soap gets its distinctive color from a form of potash, potassium hydroxide, which is derived from the ashes of plantain skins, cocoa pods and shea tree bark, and is the by-product of shea production.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Soap Making Fun: African Black Soap
Soap Making Essentials
Vitamin Stuff: Shea Butter
Vitamin Stuff: Cocoa Butter
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Effectiveness of Black Soap on Acne
2
Uses for Pine Tar
3
Dettol Antiseptic Ingredients
4
The Best Essential Oils for Rosacea
5
Palmers Cocoa Butter Ingredients
6
Benefits of Black Fungus
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.