Does Vitamin E Oil Help Prevent Scarring? | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Vitamin K for Scars
Vitamin E Dosage for Treating Peyronie's
Vitamin D Cream for Skin Problems
Can Certain Vitamins Help Avoid Stretch Marks During Pregnancy?
Can Vitamin E Help Skin Elasticity and Stretch Marks?
Vitamin E Oil for Rosacea
Does Vitamin E Oil Help Prevent Scarring?
By Jonathan Thompson ; Updated July 18, 2017
Related Articles
Vitamin K for Scars
Vitamin E Dosage for Treating Peyronie's
Vitamin D Cream for Skin Problems
Can Certain Vitamins Help Avoid Stretch Marks During Pregnancy?
Vitamin E is a generic term that refers to the antioxidant families of tocopherols and tocotrienols. These compounds play a vital role in preventing blood clots and blockages in the arteries. Vitamin E also has a complex function in the healing of wounds, which has led to its promotion as a remedy for scarring.
Function
Vitamin E is used by the body to prevent the oxidation of free radicals around a wound. Vitamin E also controls the production of collagen, a main component of skin and connective tissue, which allows the wound to heal properly. Vitamin E is fat-soluble and can easily be prepared for topical application with a moisturizer, making it a common ingredient in anti-aging skin creams.
Misconceptions
Vitamin E has been touted as having the ability to prevent and reverse scarring. There is no research, outside of anecdotal reports, to demonstrate that the topical application of vitamin E to wounds allows them to heal without scarring.
Expert Insight
A study published in "Dermatologic Surgery" in 1999 examined claims that vitamin E can improve the appearance of scars after surgery. The researchers concluded that in 90 percent of study participants "topical vitamin E either had no effect on, or actually worsened, the cosmetic appearance of scars." In her 2008 article "Alternative Treatment for Scars," Dr. Sarah L. Taylor states, "Although many patients believe vitamin E speeds wound healing and improves the look of a scar, current evidence from the literature does not support this idea. In fact, studies report adverse effects with use of vitamin E."
Warning
Topical applications of vitamin E have been shown to cause contact dermatitis, a localized inflammation of the skin, in some patients. In addition, the use of vitamin E in an attempt to prevent or lessen scar tissue may actually lead to widened scars, as vitamin E has the ability to inhibit collagen synthesis, reducing a scar's tensile strength, warns a 2006 article published in the "Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology."
Alternatives
Dr. Taylor recommends silicone gel for the treatment of scars. She says silicone "has the most data behind it as an efficacious topical, over-the-counter treatment option for scars." She adds that rubbing honey onto healing wounds and scars may also "possibly" benefit scar tissue.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Skin & Aging; Alternative Treatment for Scars; Sarah L. Taylor, M.D., M.P.H.
Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology; Topical Treatments for Hypertrophic Scars
About the Author
Jonathan Thompson is a personal trainer certified through the American Council on Exercise and has extensive experience working with clients as well as teaching. Thompson holds specializations in longevity nutrition and muscle management for runners. He began writing in 2004.
More Related Articles
Sinus Infections & Vitamin D Deficiency
Vitamin C & Estrogen Level
Parsley & Weight Loss
Related Articles
Vitamin E Oil for Rosacea
Read More
How to Use Vitamin E Oil in the Vaginal Area
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
How to Get Rid of Freckles With Vitamin C
Read More
Can Vitamins Remove Age Spots?
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.