How to Quickly Get Rid of Caffeine Jitters
Home
Store
Education
Home
What is magnesium bisglycinate (glycinate)?
Sleep
Ashwagandha
L-theanine
Anxiety
About Us
Contact
0 items
SUPPLEMENT
STORE
SLEEP-X
SLEEP AID
How to Quickly Get Rid of Caffeine Jitters
Even for us coffee lovers, the nervous and jittery feeling we get from consuming too much caffeine is horrible.
This article is a simple one, and its purpose is to give you the single best way to overcome caffeine jitters. There is a lot written online about this topic, but I was surprised by how ineffective most of the advice out there is. Some of the most popular suggestions are to drink more water and to exercise more. Or eat a banana, things like that.
Don’t get me wrong, you should definitely drink more water. Exercising is fine too. And go ahead, eat that banana. But here is the thing – anyone who has experienced the awful and nervous feeling from excess caffeine knows that these suggestions will barely do anything to reverse the feeling quickly. Caffeine stays in the system for a long time no matter what.
Here is what you should try: Take our premium grade L-Theanine. It’s a natural amino acid found in green tea. It’s what makes tea feel less jittery than coffee. Our L Theanine is 250 mg per capsule, whereas tea only contains about 15-25 mg of L Theanine per cup. L Theanine is very well studied and there are few side effects. We use no fillers at all, and we use quick dissolving veggie capsules.
L Theanine works very quickly. It won’t make you drowsy, and it has been shown to work synergistically with caffeine. It provides a very calm and pleasant feeling, and will take the “edge” off of caffeine in a noticeable way. You will still have the energy from the caffeine, but the nervousness, the excess worry, and the shaky feeling will subside dramatically.
L Theanine is not only for when you have too much caffeine (although that is a great time to have some), but it’s also effective on its own, and it’s great with even a “normal” amount of caffeine. It will help you focus better and also improve your mood. And even though it is non drowsy when taken during the day, it can also help give you a deep and restorative sleep when taken before bed.
RELATED PRODUCTS
ZEN-X
Is a natural supplement to help reduce anxiety
SLEEP-X
Is a natural supplement to help you sleep
RELATED ARTICLES
Leg Cramps at Night – Type of Magnesium that Actually Works!
Probiotics for Depression associated with IBS
What is the best fish oil for pregnant women?
Fish oil supplements – How to choose the best one
Which probiotic should I take?
Best Natural Supplements to help Studying for Exams
Probiotics for Common Colds and Immune Health
Best probiotic for IBS – Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Probiotics for Diarrhea
Bacillus Coagulans
How to Quickly Get Rid of Caffeine Jitters
How to Sleep Better Naturally
Rhodiola Rosea for Reducing Anxiety and Stress
Best Magnesium Supplement to Avoid Diarrhea
5-HTP for Weight Loss
Canadian Health Supplement Company Exporting Premium Natural Health Products to Europe
Rhodiola for Energy and Stamina
Supplements for Parkinson’s – L-Theanine, Caffeine, Ashwagandha
Alternatives to Adderall – 10 Natural Supplements
Ashwagandha and Rhodiola – Combination
Ultimate Guide to Natural Sleep Supplements
L-Theanine and Caffeine
Natural Supplements for ADHD
Complete Guide to Non-Drowsy Anxiety Supplements
Ashwagandha and Weight Loss
KSM-66 Ashwagandha
Passion Flower and Sleep
L-theanine and Sleep
What is magnesium bisglycinate (glycinate)?
Social Anxiety Disorder – Best Natural Supplements
L-Theanine – Education and Overview
L-theanine: Change your Mood
L-Theanine and Anger Management
Ashwagandha and Stress – Anxiety, Depression, and Sleep
Do I need a Vitamin Supplement
Ashwagandha
Thermogenisis
Supplements for approach anxiety
Best supplement for Anxiety
B Vitamins – An Important Overview
5-htp
Do Anxiety Supplements Work?
EARLY BIRD DISCOUNT
15% OFF
Just enter your email below
Latest ARTICLES
Leg Cramps at Night – Type of Magnesium that Actually Works!
Probiotics for Depression associated with IBS
What is the best fish oil for pregnant women?
Fish oil supplements – How to choose the best one
Which probiotic should I take?
Best Natural Supplements to help Studying for Exams
EARLY BIRD DISCOUNT
15% OFF
Just enter your email below
Email
Sleep
Anti-Anxiety
Ashwagandha
L-Theanine
Education
30 DAY MONEY
BACK GUARANTEE
Investor Relations
Retailer
Affiliates
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Refunds
Contact
(US): +1 888 265 2577
© 2016 88Herbs, a brand entirely owned by BB&G HEALTH CORP. an all-Canadian Premium Health Corporation. The statements on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA or Health Canada. Our products and information are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.