Back Pain Relief Imposters
Skip to main content
El Paso Chiropractor, Dr. Alex Jimenez's Clinical Wellness Blog. Integrating El Paso's Top Injury Specialists for 25+ years, offering Advanced Cutting-Edge High Performance Treatment Programs in: Pain Management • Preventative Health • Fitness Restoration • Physical Rehabilitation • Wellness & Functional Medicine • Spine Injuries • Complicated Sciatica • Neck & Back Trauma • Whiplash • Severe Joint Pain • Auto, Work & Sport Injuries. Call: 915-850-0900
Home
Map ✅
Call ☎️
Injured? 🚑
Forms ✏️
Verify Insurance 🔍
Legal & Disclaimers *
More…
Back Pain Relief Imposters
April 13, 2017
If It Sounds Too Good to Be True…
When you’re in pain, you might try just about anything to feel better. Claims of miracle cures that instantly relieve back and neck pain are tempting, but they often fall short of their promises.
Save your money and steer clear of the products featured promising to eliminate your spine-related pain.
Copper Bracelets
Copper bracelets and wristbands have attracted a following of arthritis sufferers because of their perceived ability to reduce joint pain.
The key word here is perceived.
A 2013 study in the UK examining the effects of copper bracelets in patients with rheumatoid arthritis found no difference in pain outcomes between those wearing copper bracelets and those using a placebo.
While the bracelets won’t do you any harm, they’re more for looks than clinical benefit. There’s no solid medical evidence available proving they reduce pain or inflammation.
Magnets
From magnetic shoe inserts to bandages, magnets have been heavily marketed as a miracle cure to zap away a variety of back pain conditions, including fibromyalgia and arthritis. However, no proof exists to back up magnets’ health claims.
While studies have examined magnets’ impact on pain, the results are mixed—and the quality of some of the research is questionable. Additionally, magnets are not safe for some people, including those who use pacemakers or insulin pumps.
Colloidal Silver
Silver jewelry? Classic. Silver home furnishings? Sure thing. Colloidal silver for your spine pain? Never a good idea.
Colloidal silver for back pain is typically found as a topical cream containing small particles of silver. In 1999, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended that people not use colloidal silver to treat any medical condition because it’s neither safe nor effective.
Even worse than the false claims of back and neck pain relief are colloidal silver’s strange and serious side effects. This product can interfere with the absorption of some prescription drugs and even permanently tint your skin a blue-gray color.
DMSO and MSM Dietary Supplements
If you have spondylosis (osteoarthritis), you may have heard of the dietary supplements dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and methylsulfonylmethane (MSM). Some believe this pair of supplements can block pain and inflammation, but no real medical evidence shows these substances actually relieve painful arthritis symptoms.
Instead of eliminating your arthritis pain, MSM and DMSO might cause some unwanted side effects. Both have been linked to causing upset stomach and skin rashes, while DMSO may also leave you with garlic breath and body odor.
A Word on Drug-Supplement Interactions
Speaking of supplements, it’s important to understand that dietary supplements may not mix with over-the-counter or prescription drugs. Some interactions result in mild side effects, but others can be much more serious—even life-threatening.
If you’re using a dietary supplement—even if it’s a seemingly benign herbal or vitamin—always let your doctor and pharmacist know before taking it with an over-the-counter or prescription medication. They will share any dangerous interactions, and ensure you’re safely addressing your back and neck pain.
The Real Deals: Alternative Treatments that Work
Many who fall prey to the products listed in this slideshow have an interest in alternative or complementary therapies for back and neck pain. While some non-traditional treatments should be avoided, many have been proven to reduce spine pain.
Scientists from the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health at the National Institutes of Health reviewed 105 U.S.-based trials from the past 50 years that included more than 16,000 participants. They found the therapies below effective at controlling pain:
• Acupuncture • Massage • Relaxation techniques • Tai chi
If you prefer alternative methods to manage for your spinal condition, explore the therapies above. They are effective, safe, and will help you live a healthier life.
Call Today!
Share
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Labels
back el paso chiropractic imposters pain relief wellness
Labels: back el paso chiropractic imposters pain relief wellness
Reactions: Location: El Paso, TX, USA
Share
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Comments
Post a Comment
Functional Medicine *
Chronic Disease Insights & Assessment
Today's Chiropractic
Chiropractic + Wellness
Trending: Back Pain Insights
Location Near You
MEET THE STAFF
INJURY & WELLNESS CLINIC
Functional Medicine *
Chronic Diseases Evaluator*
WELLNESS CENTER
Blog Library & Archives ✅
2019 124
April 26
March 37
February 34
January 27
2018 612
December 39
November 49
October 59
September 29
August 66
July 48
June 49
May 71
April 49
March 45
February 44
January 64
2017 1078
December 31
November 39
October 58
September 48
August 100
July 101
June 106
May 158
April 180
March 177
February 37
January 43
2016 304
December 35
November 29
October 19
September 16
August 21
July 32
June 64
May 49
April 25
March 14
Show more Show less
New Patient Intake Form ✍
It is now easy to become a patient. No waiting on your first visit. Just push the red button, fill out your clinical symptoms and we will call you with your appointment. Just Press the Red Button and Begin Care Today.
Additional Clinical Blogs
Facebook: Chiropractic
Facebook: Accidents
Facebook: Neuropathy
Facebook: Sciatica
Facebook: Crossfit
Facebook: Doc & Jock
Dr. J Clinical Site
Accidents & Injury Care
Wellness & Chiropractic
Sciatica Treatments
Time Magazine
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Crossfit Physician
Tweets by crossfitdoctor
Integrated Fitness & Wellness
(Click Here)*
Powered by Blogger
Webpage Designed by ChiroBox Enterprise. All Right Reserved 2017