Evening Primrose Oil Benefits - Expert Health Reviews
Close
Home
About This Site
About Dr Sarah Brewer
Contact Page
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy For ExpertHealthReviews.com
Cookie policy
Terms And Conditions
Ask Me Any Question About Health
Guest Experts
Best Non-Invasive Treatments For Ageing Skin
Foods For Good Mood
How Hormones Control Your Acne
Is Your Job Making You Ill?
Treatments For Headaches And Migraines
What Is Sciatica And How To Treat It Naturally
How A Bad Mattress Impacts Your Health
10 Surprising Things You Didn’t Know Could Harm Your Vision
Catering For Guests With Allergies
How to Protect Your Eyes During The Summer Months
Return to Play
World Cup Half Time Health Hacks
How To Avoid A Hangover
Could You Be Training Yourself Deaf?
Is Your Hay Fever Making You Depressed?
Neck Pain – A Modern Day Epidemic
Ayurvedic Beauty For Summer
Are You Carrying A Pollutant Burden?
These Are The Top Eight Ways To Beat Headaches At Work
Everything You Need To Know About Pelvic Congestion Syndrome
Everything You Need To Know About Blood Cancer
Tackling Sleep Apnoea
How To Do A PROPER Breast Cancer Self-Check
Your Eyes After 40: What’s Normal And What’s Not
Everything You Need To Know About Testicular Cancer
Essentials For Well-Rounded Health
Expert Health Reviews
Best Self-Help Tips And Home Remedies By Dr Sarah Brewer
Best Self-Help Tips And Home Remedies By Dr Sarah Brewer
Menu
HOME
Pain Relief
Best CBD Oil For Pain
Best Pain Killers
25 Different Causes Of Foot Pain
Copper Bracelets For Pain
Lower Back Pain
Magnetic Therapy For Pain
Pain Relieving Creams & Gels
Pain Relieving Devices
Best Home Treatments
Acne
Aphthous Ulcers – Canker Sores
Bacterial Vaginosis
Bad Breath
Blepharitis
Brittle or Flaking Nails
Caffeine Shampoo For Thinning Hair
Cellulite
Dandruff
Dry Eyes
Eczema
Female Facial Hair Removal
Fungal Nail Infection
Hay Fever
Head Lice & Nits
Heartburn
Hemorrhoids
Ingrown Toenail
Insomnia
Migraine
Mold Allergy
Tennis Elbow
Testosterone Deficiency
Tinnitus
Tiredness All The Time
Travel Sickness
Urinary Incontinence
Urinary Infections
Vaginal Dryness
Varicose Veins
Expert Tips
Coenzyme Q10 Supplements
Common Cold Remedies
Coloured Light To Improve Your Mood
Cranberries For Urinary Tract Infections (UTI)
Dead Sea Salt Benefits
Evening Primrose Oil For Hormone Balance
Facial Hair Removal For Women
Glucosamine For Joints
Magnesium For Energy
Multivitamin Supplements
Sleep Better Naturally
Standing Desks
The Right Pillow For Your Sleeping Position
Protect Against Cell Phone Radiation
Product Reviews
Amber Ointment Relieves Pain
ENTEROSGEL – A Breakthrough GUT Treatment
LQ Liquid Health Joint Care
Ruby Breakfast Effervescent Vitamin C
Strawberry Lift For Double Chins
My Recommended Products Amazon.com
Ask Me Any Question About Health
Home » Herbal medicine » Evening Primrose Oil For Hormone Balance
Evening Primrose Oil For Hormone Balance
Evening primrose oil is one of the most popular food supplements, taken to improve skin quality and to treat eczema, premenstrual breast pain, menopause hot flushes and hair loss. Up to 10 per cent of its essential fatty acid content is in the form of gamma linolenic acid (GLA). This omega-6 fatty acid from evening primrose oil has an anti-inflammatory action, similar to that of omega-3s, when intakes are sufficiently high.
Some GLA is incorporated into cell membranes, making them more fluid and flexible. This produces a noticeable improvement in skin softness and hydration within a few days. Some GLA is also converted into hormone-like substances, known as series 1 prostaglandins, which relax blood vessels to improve blood flow to the skin, decrease inflammation to reduce redness, and improve nerve function to reduce itching and discomfort. These effects can also improve hormone imbalances.
Contents
Natural essential fatty acid production
Evening primrose oil health benefits
Evening primrose oil and eczema
Evening primrose oil for ageing skin
Evening primrose oil and hormone balance
Evening primrose oil and dry eyes
Evening primrose oil dose
Evening primrose oil safety
Natural essential fatty acid production
Although your cells produce small amounts of GLA, this process is easily blocked by factors such as increasing age, smoking, pollution, lack of vitamins and minerals and excessive intakes of saturated fat, sugar or alcohol. As a result, deficiency is common and is associated with skin that is itchy, feels rough and dry, and which can become prematurely wrinkled. Although dry, skin also becomes more prone to spots as oil gland ducts become distorted to trap grease.
Evening primrose oil health benefits
Taking evening primrose oil (EPO) capsules helps to stabilise the skin barrier and maintain hydration so skin appears softer and more luminous. Research has shown that taking evening primrose oil supplements can provide many skin benefits. It is one supplement that I would not do without – if I stop taking it, I soon notice my skin feels more dry and itchy. As a bonus, evening primrose oil may even reduce the formation of wrinkles, too!
A review of nine studies found that evening primrose oil frequently reduced the symptoms of dry itchy skin after several months use, with the greatest improvement seen in itching.
Evening primrose oil and eczema
Atopic dermatitis has been related to a deficiency of an enzyme, delta-6-desaturase, which is needed to convert dietary linoleic acid to gamma-linolenic acid. In people with eczema, evening primrose oil supplements were 25% more effective at reducing skin scaling, dryness, redness and itching than placebo.
You can also apply evening primrose oil directly to the skin for intensive treatment of dry patches. Snip open a capsule to apply the oil, or use a liquid evening primrose oil skin product with a dropper for easy application.
Evening primrose oil for ageing skin
Evening primrose oil helps skin take on a more youthful appearance. In one trial involving women in their forties, those taking 3g evening primrose oil for 12 weeks experienced a twenty per cent improvement in skin moisture, smoothness, elasticity and firmness, compared with those taking placebo. You can also apply evening primrose oil directly to the skin, where it sinks in to provide moisture and soothe dryness and fine lines.
Evening primrose oil can also reduce the over-production of the pigment, melanin, which is associated with mottling and so-called age spots in older skin. It appears to work by reducing the activity of an enzyme (tyrosinase) involved in melanin synthesis. As a result, evening primrose oil is included in some cosmetic products used to lighten skin tone.
A review published in the Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology included evening primrose oil among the Top 10 botanical ingredients currently used in anti-ageing creams.
Evening primrose oil and hormone balance
Evening primrose oil provides building blocks for making sex hormones, and some women find it improves symptoms of premenstrual syndrome such as bloating, breast tenderness, irritability, mood swings and anxiety. Research findings are conflicting, however, and the only way to know if it will help you personally is to take it for three months to assess the benefits.
If you have polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), evening prirmos oil can help, too – especially against any associated acne. If you have been prescribed the drug isotretinoin to treat acne, one side effect is increasing skin dryness, especially around the mouth. In a study involving 40 people, those who took evening primrose oil supplements with their acne medication showed significant improvements within eight weeks treatment compared to those who did not take evening primrose oil.
Hormone changes can mean hot flushes cause significant problems around the menopause for some women. A study involving 56 menopausal women found that taking evening primrose oil (1 gram daily) for 6 weeks significantly reduced the severity of hot flashes compared with placebo.
Evening primrose oil may help with hormone-related hair loss, too. Although little research has been carried out in this area, the anti-inflammatory benefits of evening primrose oil, and its effects on skin, can improve hair quality. Many people give their pets veterinary evening primrose oil supplements to improve hair/fur gloss, shine and thickness, for example. It may offer similar benefits for human hair, too. If you hair is thinning, caffeine containing hair products (shampoo, conditioner and scalp tonic) will help, too.
Evening primrose oil and dry eyes
Evening primrose oil helps to reduce dry eyes, especially in contact lens wearers. A study involving 76 women who took either EPO or placebo (olive oil) for 6 months, found those taking EPO showed significant improvements in dryness and overall lens comfort. The viscosity of tears was also increased.
Evening primrose oil dose
The usual recommended dose is 1g evening primrose oil, taken one to three times per day.
Vitamins C, B6, B3 (niacin), zinc and magnesium are also needed for the metabolism and action of evening primrose oil, so it’s important to ensure your intake of these is adequate. A multivitamin and mineral supplement may be a good idea.
Evening primrose oil safety
Do not take evening primrose oil if you have a rare nervous system disorder known as temporal lobe epilepsy.
Some doctors recommend avoiding evening primrose oil if you have schizophrenia or a bleeding disorder.
Check with your doctor before taking evening primrose oil – or any supplements – during pregnancy. There is some evidence that evening primrose oil may be associated with increased risk of prolonged rupture of membranes during labour.
Image credit: pixabay
Please share:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
About Dr Sarah Brewer
QUORA EXPERT - TOP WRITER 2018 Dr Sarah Brewer MSc (Nutr Med), MA (Cantab), MB, BChir, RNutr, MBANT, CNHC qualified from Cambridge University with degrees in Natural Sciences, Medicine and Surgery. After working in general practice, she gained a master's degree in nutritional medicine from the University of Surrey. Sarah is a registered Medical Doctor, a registered Nutritionist and a registered Nutritional Therapist. She is an award winning author of over 60 popular self-help books and a columnist for Prima magazine.
View all posts by Dr Sarah Brewer →
Please leave a comment or ask a question ...	Cancel reply
14 thoughts on “Evening Primrose Oil For Hormone Balance”
Reply ↓
Fifi September 16, 2018 at 11:58 am
Hello, I have been taking 1300mg/day EPO for 9 years. it has positive effects on my hormonal balance. Is it safe?
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer September 16, 2018 at 1:47 pm
Hi Fifi, I have taken EPO for 20 years at between 1g and 2g per day and have every reason to believe it is safe for long term use. Best wishes, Sarah B
Fifi September 16, 2018 at 4:28 pm
Thank you so much for your reply. My doubt was because I thought that EPO might increase the Omega 6 to Omega 3 ratio. As EPO contains large amounts of linileic acid (LA)along with smaller amount of GLA.
The increased ratio promotes inflamation. As a precaution I always take EPO with a double strength Omega 3 pill to balance it. After some time I noticed that this combination along with a multivitamin work like a pain killer for mentural pain( anti-inflamation).
Dr Sarah Brewer September 17, 2018 at 8:09 am
HI Fifi, GLA is an unusual omega-6 – rather than promoting inflammation it appears to have an anti-inflammatory effect similar to that of omega-3s, when intakes are sufficiently high. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Atiya May 19, 2018 at 6:19 am
Hello i have much swelling n heavy breast from last month,vaginal discharg,also dry eyes..would these oil capsuls helful for me?i m an IBS patient too..
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer May 23, 2018 at 7:26 pm
Hi Atiya, It’s best to see your doctor for an assessment of what might be wrong before trying a supplement approach. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
christine April 13, 2018 at 10:01 pm
I am on the menopause is the tablets for evening primrose better than the oil to take.?
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer April 14, 2018 at 9:06 am
Hi Christine, You can take either capsules (which usually come in 500mg or 1g sizes) or use oil from a dropper in the bottle. I find the capsules easiest to use. You can find info on the best supplements for menopause here, on my nutritional medicine website, and info on diet and menopause here. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Amellia February 25, 2018 at 8:05 am
Hi Doc, Is the evening primrose good for acne?
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer February 26, 2018 at 4:39 pm
Hi Amellia, Researchers have found that the moisturising effect of evening primrose oil is helpful for overcoming the dryness associated with the acne treatment, isotretinoin. It may also improve acne associated with hormone imbalances. It will not make acne worse in my experience and has an anti-inflammatory effect that may well help, espeically if you have a tendency towards dry skin. Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
Adebola July 1, 2017 at 12:32 pm
Hi doc, can I take evening primrose x1 capsule daily along with royal jelly tablet & fish oil/salmon oil capsules x1000mg? Do their benefits/ingredients overlap? Or can I take the fish oil supplements alone on its a few days a week? Thanks
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer July 1, 2017 at 5:12 pm
Hi Adebola, You can take evening primrose oil, Royal jelly and fish oil together. They all offer different benefits. Evening primrose oil is great for the skin and provides an anti-inflammatory oil called GLA. Royal jelly I’ve written about HERE offers hormonal benefits, while fish oil is a good source of omega-3s. I certainly take all three! Best wishes, Sarah B
Reply ↓
David June 25, 2016 at 3:30 pm
I’m looking for an all natural alternative for itchy skin and I’m wondering if primrose oil might help. I’m currently using a prescription cream (clotrimazole/betamethasone) a few areas around my ankles that get dry and itch like crazy. I’ve scratched them until I bled. I do get relief from the cream but it’s for fungus infection which I don’t have so I’d like to try something else.
Reply ↓
Dr Sarah Brewer June 25, 2016 at 3:48 pm
Hi David, Lack of essential fatty acids commonly causes itching and dryness on the shins and evening primrose oil usually helps – it may take a week or two to notice a significant benefit. If your itchy skin remains bad do see your doctor again as you may need a different treatment, including a rich moisturising lotion.
Post navigation
← Effective Head Lice Treatments
How To Sleep Better Naturally →
.
.
My New Guides
.
Search My Reviews
Search for:
.
Shop At Boots
.
.
.
About Dr Sarah Brewer
Registered Medical Doctor
Registered Nutritionist
Registered Nutritional Therapist
Award-winning author of over 60 books
Medical Advisor To:
Prima Magazine
Healthspan
Patient Connect
AHPMA
Curalife
Site Map
Sitemap
Contacts
Contact Page
· © 2018 Expert Health Reviews ·
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you are happy to accept cookies, please click on OK. If you wish to refuse cookies, please click NO. For more information, read our Privacy Policy. Thank you.OKNoRead more