L-Theanine Powder | Theanine Supplement | BulkSupplements.com
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
My Account
My Cart
Checkout
Blog
Log In
Wholesale Customer? Click Here
My Cart
0 items $0.00
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Free Shipping Orders $49 or More*
*USA including AK & HI, $49 minimum order after discounts are applied.
Excludes wholesale account members. Excludes wholesale sizes.
Bulk Supplements
Home
Products by Category
Amino AcidsVitaminsHerbal SupplementsMinerals
Sports NutritionProtein PowderSweetenerScales & More
New SupplementsOrganic Supplements
Products by Goal
Skin Care & BeautyDigestive SupportJoint & Bone Support
Muscle BuildingBrain SupplementsSupplements for Men
Weight LossHeart HealthSupplements for Women
Capsules
Pure Supplement CapsulesSoftgels
Empty CapsulesCapsule Filling Machines
All Products
Search:
Go
Unbeatable Prices Huge Product Selection, Great Service,
Enter your email address to receive exclusive discount codes and special offers!
Subscribe
Home /
L-Theanine Powder
Promo - FREE T-Shirt with $100+ Purchase
Add $100+ to Cart. Select Style & Size on Cart Page. *Excludes Wholesale Account Members.
L-Theanine Powder
*Size
Choose a Size...
Loading...
* Required Fields
Qty:
Add to Cart
In stock
Out of stock
Price From: FROM $15.96
Ships today if ordered in the next 1 hour and 43 minutes!
Works well with
L-Tyrosine Powder
Price From: FROM $12.96	As low as: $12.57
Gamma Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) Powder
Price From: FROM $12.96	As low as: $12.57
5-HTP (Griffonia Seed Extract) Powder
Price From: FROM $19.96
Rhodiola Extract 3% Salidroside Powder
Price From: FROM $15.96	As low as: $15.48
20g Milligram Scale 0.001
FROM $44.96
Benefits
Pure powder
Relaxing agent
Non-GMO
Customer Rating
Add your own review
(173)
Taste
Mixability
L-Theanine is an amino acid that is naturally found in green tea, which is a rich source of polyphenols that have antioxidant properties and promote overall health.
If taken in higher doses, theanine may contribute to feelings of drowsiness and deeper sleep.
Read more about L-Theanine Powder
Dosage
Serving Size & Timing
This supplement should be taken in servings between 100 and 200mg one to three times per day.
Nutritional Information
Supplement Facts
Serving size: 250 milligrams
Serving per container: *
Amount Per Serving
% Daily Value**
L-Theanine 250mg *
* Daily Value not established.
** Based on 2,000 calorie diet
Other Ingredients: None
Free of: Sugar, soy, dairy, yeast, gluten, corn and additives.
Directions: As a dietary supplement, take 100mg (scant 1/16 tsp) to 250mg (1/8 tsp) one to three times daily.
US Standard Measuring Spoons
Spoon Size(level)
milligrams
1/16 teaspoon 121
1/8 teaspoon 243
1/4 teaspoon 487
SIDE EFFECTS & FURTHER INFORMATION
CONCENTRATION OF L-THEANINE
This supplement is considered pharmaceutical grade and contains no fillers of any kind. It is totally vegan and is derived from the tea (Camellia sinesis) plant.
L-THEANINE SIDE EFFECTS
Note: This supplement may lower blood pressure. Those who are currently taking blood pressure medication or have a history of related issues should first discuss use with a trusted health care professional. Take with caution.
L-Theanine should not be taken by anyone that has ever been diagnosed with liver or kidney disease or by women who are nursing or pregnant. While this supplement has no side effects at recommended servings, it may function as a sedative if serving size is not adhered to.
TIPS
This product is soluble in water and has a broth-like flavor, similar to green tea. Since it is an amino acid, it should be taken along with other amino acids to avoid any deficiency. It should be stored in an area free from light, heat and moisture.
*NOTE: These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
**DISCLAIMER: There is no guarantee of specific results and results can vary.
California residents: Click here for Proposition 65 warning.
Customer Reviews
Saves a ton of $$$
My husband and I are on L Theanine as a supplement ordered by our doctor. The amounts we have to take are cost prohibitive at most sites. This site has larger sizes and better prices than most other places to buy the supplement. The order came quickly and we are pleased with the quality.*
On 3/4/2019 Cheryl said...
Blends well with coffee
I ad this to my coffee or tea daily. I dont even notice I added it. I haven't had this long enough to say it works.... but so far so good*
On 2/9/2019 Regina said...
Works
Hey guys,
If you want something to help relax and fall asleep without waking up feeling groggy then look no further. It really does work but start small and work your way up like usual. Good for anxiety and sleep and for some...better mood
Hope this help*
On 2/4/2019 Rader said...
Great Supplement to Coffee
I have purchased L-Theanine Pure Powder before from other vendors and was really delighted to find BulkSupplements had it in stock. I am a coffee lover but over the years I found tea worked better for me at work because of the synergy of the combination of Caffeine and L Theanine. The combination allowed the benefits of Caffeine but without the jitters & anxiety. After finding L-Theanine Powder supplement I now have switched back to coffee & add L-Theanine to my coffee at the recommended 1:2 ratio (1 part Caffeine: 2 parts L-Theanine). Combined, caffeine and L-theanine work better together.
*
On 12/22/2018 Dan said...
Tasteless
Cant drink my coffee without it. Good quality. Fast shipping. Love BS.*
On 12/8/2018 Mercedes said...
Great relaxing focus
This stuff works! Combine it with caffeine, and it's a perfect start to a stress free, productive day.*
On 12/5/2018 Nathan said...
Great relaxing focus
This stuff works! Combine it with caffeine, and it's a perfect start to a stress free, productive day.*
On 12/5/2018 Nathan said...
Great for sleep!
This theanine is pure.
Taking this product about 30 minutes before bedtime helps me go to sleep and stay asleep through the night.*
On 12/1/2018 Corinne said...
This product is wonderful for sleep and anxiety!
This works great for sleeping and relieving anxious feelings!
Price it elsewhere and you will see it's the best around!*
On 12/1/2018 Mike said...
Perfect for sleep!!
This BS theanine is perfect for sleeping at night!!
I sleep for 6 to 8 hours every night and wake up refreshed and ready to roar....
THANK YOU Bulk Supplement for this product.
Corinne*
On 11/21/2018 Corinne said...
the best l-theanine I've found
L-theanine helps reduce anxiety, and also curbs sugar cravings, and BulkSupplements' l-theanine is the best I've found!*
On 11/15/2018 Elizabeth said...
Works For Me
This l-theanine powder has a fine consistency like flour. It is tasteless and mixes easily in tea or coffee.
I have taken 200-500mg in a single dose without any side effects. I have taken 1 gram total in a single day, also without any side effects. The measuring guidelines on the package is pretty accurate as I checked against my own digital scale.
L-theanine gives me a calm sensation that washes over me within 15 minutes. I always take it with tea or coffee, never by itself.*
On 11/9/2018 W said...
Manganese Gluconate Powder
Love it takes away my general anxiety*
On 11/8/2018 Belinda said...
Ltheanin
Love it has done wonders for me*
On 11/8/2018 Belinda said...
Fireplace Flame
I heard Theanin and other supplements from a friend of mine and did a comprehensive search. To be honest I didn't believe aforesaid effects about theanine in several sources but right after trying regularly I felt blood which penetrates correctly to all my veins. I felt the blood even on my ears and cheek, I felt energetic and dynamic. From my deep research, I might recommend to add it in day's first coffee on an empty stomach. *
On 10/30/2018 murat said...
Great product
This product is as pure as it gets and very potent. I will definitely re order when I run out. Bulk supplements is the best for high quality products at a low price! *
On 10/27/2018 Jeff said...
l-theanine powder
L-theanine is an excellent supplement with a multitude of health benefits. The powder form offered by BS is an excellent product, with no fillers, and exceptional value. Highly recommended!!*
On 10/25/2018 Joe from AK said...
Didn't "feel it" but seems like quality powder
Well, I have only been taking this for almost 2 weeks, so it's probably not long enough to fully write it off. But I'm going to keep taking it because it's proven to have some neuroprotective effects, and help with calming the brain in preparation for sleep. That's critical in our melatonin-wrecking environment of today.
As for the powder, it seemed to be high quality. Very dry, sealed well, and it had that slightly sweet taste that L-Theanine is supposed to have.
I would recommend the value of this product if you're going to be making your own supplement caps.*
On 10/24/2018 Robert said...
Awake brain
I usually try a new supplement alone just to see how my body reacts to it. After reading about L-Theanine I wanted to try it for my nootropic mix and also for meditation. Supposedly it helps induce an alpha state of calm, relaxed alertness. It definitely did that for me!
I noticed energy moving in my head after a minute of taking it sublingually. Then I felt more alert yet calm. It made for a great meditation and helped me stay in the zone the rest of the day.
Definitely a reorder!*
On 10/11/2018 Court said...
Amazing with coffee
I mix this with my coffee and the effects are noticeable after the first use. I get the same energy that I normally get with caffeine, but without the jitters and anxiety. I feel like I'm a lot more focused than I am normally with just coffee by itself as well. I'm definitely ordering this stuff again.*
On 10/2/2018 Req said...
Excellent
I bought this product along with tryptophan to assist in sleep and I can only say it’s wonderful. It doesn’t give me the hangover normally received from melatonin and I sleep great. *
On 9/29/2018 Jess said...
Excellent product
I am using L-theanine with other components and it's an excellent supplement for improving the concentration.*
On 9/14/2018 Andrés said...
Great for anxiety
I noticed a drop in my stress level and a bit of a drop in blood pressure in just a few days.*
On 9/7/2018 Daniel said...
Takes the edge off
This is a great product at a great price. I take it first thing in the morning, especially when I have a busy day ahead of me. It keeps me calm, but focused. *
On 9/1/2018 Geoff said...
Great sleep
I have only been taking it fir a few days but on day 2 my sleeo was deeper and I was more relaxed in the morning and throughout the day. I think I'm gonna like it, it seems to work.*
On 9/1/2018 Cathy said...
Great Deal
I used Theanine for a while and this is a great deal. Get more than twice the normal dose for a lot less. The only way to buy if you are a regular user.*
On 8/31/2018 Robert said...
Quick Calming
This is a wonderful amino acid!! I read an article about it and then ordered it from Bulk Supplements! This is the real deal to take the edge off stress!! I use it regularly when multi-tasking and in those mystery sped up moods! It works all the time! LOVE L-Thinine!!!!*
On 8/29/2018 Craig said...
Great stuff!!!
At night I take about 800mg of L-theanine along with passion fruit powder. WORKS like a charm! I sleep pretty much through the night for at least 7 hours straight!
Thank you BULK SUPPLEMENTS!*
On 8/23/2018 Corinne said...
Great for anxiety and alcohol cravings
This is my second time ordering L-Theanine from BulkSupplements. I haven't had a panic attack in over six months, and I'm "nicer" according to my husband. I've become an L-Theanine cheerleader at work, and colleagues overwhelmed with stress frequently get handed a small glass of water--"Here, drink this, it'll make you feel better!" I always have at least two bottles of L-Theanine water with me when I'm in court, one for me and one for my client. Speaking of clients, I tell them to order L-Theanine from BulkSupplements (and also Ashwagandha, Passionflower, Magnesium Glycinate, L-Glutamine, Glycine, and L-Tryptophan.) Everyone who starts taking L-Theanine has a relatively easy time getting sober and staying sober. Thanks, BulkSupplements, for providing products of consistently high quality. I'll always be a 100% happy customer!*
On 8/16/2018 Heather said...
L Theanine..more sociable?
A while back, I took L Theanine caps and felt calmer. Then like most of us I moved on and forgot about it as the need diminished. When I recently did research on how L Theanine helps prevent blood pressure spikes, I decided to order it from Bulk Supplements. I read a testimonial how it helped an autistic person be more sociable..I thought thats wonderful. Little did I know that I too feel more sociable after taking L Theanine. Amazing!*
On 8/6/2018 Darryl said...
Effective, might not be clean though
The L-Theanine I received surely does its' job and the price is unmatchable. Best bang for your buck. My only concern is that people all over the internet are reporting it to be contaminated with lead and having a weird chemical/metallic smell to it. I cannot confirm this is true, but it does concern me and the claim is coming from multiple sources. Other than that it's great!*
On 8/1/2018 Dominic said...
very bright eyed
I take 200mgs 3 times a day. In the morning with my coffee, in the afternoon with a caffeine tablet and by itself in the evening. It leaves me very sharp, upbeat and energized with out that wired stimulated vibe. I have no problem going to sleep and I'm not sure but think I the quality of my dreams has improved *
On 7/17/2018 Robert said...
good quality
I received this complimentary 50g bag to try out. I added 250mg per serving with my custom preworkout mixture. It helps achieve mental clarity and focus for my workout without any jitters. *
On 7/17/2018 ryan said...
L-Theonine
I use this product as a pre-workout supplement along with my BCAA's and AA's. It has helped me focus on my workouts. My wife and I also take it for its sleep restoration effects. Bulk Supplements is at the supplement forefront. *
On 6/24/2018 William said...
SLEEP thru the night
I take L-THEANINE in water before going to bed,go into deep sleep.I tried it in coffee,but had to take a nap,got to relaxed.So i take it only at night.Super fast shipping!*
On 5/22/2018 Kathy said...
Fabulous product!!!
Taking this theanine about 2 hours before bed really helps me sleep THROUGH THE NIGHT!! I wake up REFRESHED and ready to go....
Thank you for a GREAT PRODUCT!!!*
On 5/12/2018 Corinne said...
Invaluable for road rage and happiness
I drive in Los Angeles traffic a lot, and I would be nowhere near as calm without this supplement! Thanks to bulksupplements.com for providing me with an easy to mix powder, I keep a bottle mixed with water to sip from in my car at all times. *
On 5/4/2018 Eric said...
Excellent results!
I'm amazed with this amino acid! I read about it on Dr. Andrew Weil's website! Very calming effect, and fast acting! I no longer get too wired up after coffee. Helps my focus on tasks!! I take it in the morning and works all day! This is the best calming supplement I've found!!
*
On 4/21/2018 Craig said...
I use it daily
Great quality product. I use this everyday in my stack for good mood and concentration. *
On 3/27/2018 Sharon said...
L-Theanine
Great product, add a little to my coffee or tea every morning. Doesn't give off any bad tatse or really any taste at all. Mixes quite well although it requires some stirring.
Overall really happy with this product. *
On 3/25/2018 Abraham said...
Works Very Well
I have used L-Theanine in the past, but in retail capsule form. This bulk powder works really well, does not contain fillers, and saves me money! Thank you, BulkSupplements!!
*
On 3/15/2018 Vicki said...
new buyer
I am trying this new product for myself after reading about it on a dopamine website. I wanted to see what was out there to test and this name came up. Thank you bulk supplements for being easy to find.*
On 2/5/2018 nelida correa said...
Good so far
Mixes well with whatever you're using. Haven't noticed a huge effect but it does seem to take the edge off a bit.*
On 1/31/2018 Jeff said...
Quality Purchase
I have tried a few other brands of L-Theanine before, mostly from grocery stores and vitamin shops. The consistency of this L-Theanine is truly awesome. It dissolves quick and well in water, fluffy (non-crystaline), and surprisingly tastes good! I've paid the same price for 100 grams that I have for 5 grams elsewhere, and the quality is much better too. 5 stars.*
On 12/1/2017 Dominic said...
L-Theanine is fantastic!
L-Theanine is such fantastic stuff! It's very calming without being in the least bit sedating, and I've never noticed any side effects or after effects. It goes super well with coffee, as the caffeine potentiates its effects.
L-Theanine is perfect for very energetic, passionate individuals who want to "take off some of the edge", while maintaining their high enthusiasm. It's particularly perfect to take when one plans to socialize a lot (i.e. before a date, or before a party, business event, or family event). In other words, it takes away most of your anxieties, while maintaining a very pleasant, highly energetic, socially engaging, yet calm, sober mood.
Interesting observation....I know someone who has been diagnosed by a psychiatrist as being on the autism spectrum, who upon taking a standard dose of L-Theanine, briefly "came out of his shell", and was remarkably engaged in a normal conversation. His family was floored to watch him engage in conversations and to "be present". His mother was in tears. I gave him half of my l-theanine supply; he takes it twice a day, and he now has a girlfriend!
While I am not a doctor, as a lay person, I must mention that this observation is remarkable, and I hope that more people take note of this....L-theanine helps people to engage in healthy social activity, and it increases healthy extroversion. I've told several friends of mine who are psychiatrists and neurologists to take note. It's not surprising that green tea, from which l-theanine comes, has been so popular throughout history.*
On 11/22/2017 Ron said...
L-Theanine is Recommended....
I don't always tell my friends that I've written a review for a product, but when I do it's an L-Theanine review from BulkSupplements.com. *
On 11/19/2017 William said...
Pure
Goes great with caffeine. Fast shipping!*
On 11/14/2017 Clayton said...
I Concur... L-Theanine is Good
L-Theanine from Bulk Supplements is Grade A stuff! I won't get it anywhere else. *
On 10/30/2017 William said...
BEST with 5HTP and N acetyl L Theanine
For a pure no nonsense anti depressant, I take before bed a combination of the L Theanine, 5HTP, and N-acetyl L Tyrosine. I have been taking this now for about 3 weeks and notice a huge difference in mood and outlook on life! WOW!!!!!! Bulk Supplements is the BEST source for pure, natural, no-additives powders! Thank you so much!!!!!!1*
On 10/16/2017 Kimberlie said...
Calming + Quality
I'm a new customer. I didn't know which powder provider to turn to when I wanted to purchase my powders. My experience with the QUALITY of the L-THEANINE I purchased is grade A. I will be a returning customer!*
On 10/11/2017 William Huscher said...
Theanine is great!
I have been using theanine for several years now. This is my first time using Bulk Supplements and it is just as good as they higher priced brands. Love this!*
On 10/7/2017 Barbara said...
Daily panic attacks
I never actually thought that a supplement like this could help with anxiety so much. It completely relaxes me and keeps me in a calm alert state at work. I'll def be getting more.*
On 9/30/2017 Steven said...
theanine
I take theanine to keep my blood pressure in check and it works like a charm. I also use it in conjunction with phenibut to reduce anxiety levels and within 30 minutes, the level of anxiety is greatly reduced. Great product!*
On 9/5/2017 PATRICIA said...
Helps with rls
Helps twitchy muscles relax, day or night. Has many relaxing benefits, including going well with stimulating things like my concerta or with caffeine. *
On 9/1/2017 Whitney said...
L-Theane AWESOME
I have severe anxiety issues. Buying from vitamin stores was so expensive. Buying quality in bulk is such a positive factor to my health. Thank you*
On 8/31/2017 Michael said...
L-theanine is a lifesaver!
This stuff is essential for me. my psychiatrist prescribed it years ago, but she said that sadly I must get it on my own OTC. Out of all the hundreds of meds I have tried, this is the only one that really worked. It saved my life. Paranoia 100 - 0% after .5 - 1g sublingual EVERY TIME I USE IT ... PERIOD!! Benzodiazepine is a joke compared to theanine. The dose required for me is drastically larger than anything I have read about in the scientific literature; nonetheless, this chemical is an absolute godsend. It works within minutes, it works everytime, everyday, throughout the years. I take it at least every four hours under the tongue. I wake up in the night and must take it to get to sleep again (the paranoia keeps me up and causes severe stress that is almost painful). With the help of theanine, I went from bottom of the barrel bed-ridden mental defect -- to studying medicine and excelling beyond my peers. The packaging was leaky, the powder seeped out of the damaged ziplock that it came in. The product is slightly contaminated with a harmless drying agent of volatile nature, but this contaminant evaporates out of the theanine after opening and reopening the bag 10 or 20 times. Overall, I could not find a Theanine for a better price. BONUS- THIS COMPANY PROUDLY DECLARES THIS PRODUCT IS VEGAN!! (I refuse to cause harm to myself and others by allowing non-vegans to get any of my money)*
On 8/9/2017 michael said...
Great preworkout and before bed
As someone sensitive to caffeine its nice to find a product that prevents the jittery feeling that comes along with it. I've been using 250mg along with 200-250mg in my preworkout and it works great! Pairing it with phenibut and 5-htp before bed has improved my sleep quality as well. You'll most likely need to find a 1/8 tsp measuring spoon though but unfortunately, they're fairly common. Overall, it's wonderful and versatile product at a great price for how many servings in it. *
On 7/15/2017 Patrick said...
Great product
I use L-Theanine along with my other sleep helper agent which gives me a quality sleep that I need. I don't have nightmares anymore.*
On 7/10/2017 Henry said...
Good But Funny Smell
Good price. Theanine helps me with anxiety and more instability from my bipolar disorder. This batch has a strange odor though that I haven't experienced in the past. I would still buy again though.
*
On 6/30/2017 Michael said...
works
I got this to promote better sleep at night in larger doses and reduce anxiety in the day with smaller doses. Hardly any supplements that I have bought over last several years did much. This one works day and night. really improved my sleep and lowered anxiety in the day.
*
On 6/22/2017 Jason said...
good product
I have been taking this product for several months. It was recommended to me by my nurse practitioner to help with adrenal fatigue. It works within 30 minutes to an hour taken on an empty stomach (which if needs to be) and I can really tell a difference. It helps alleviate anxiety while giving a non-jittery energy that I need. Very effective. I take about 200mg 3-4 times a day. I would recommend it to anyone who needs to decrease anxiety or stress while simultaneously increasing energy level. I was buying the capsules locally but ordered here because I could get a huge savings on cost. Thanks bulk supplements. It's my first time to order here but I'll be back!*
On 6/20/2017 Doug said...
L-Theanine powder
This product has a very noticeable effect....I use on a daily basis, either with caffeine during workouts or simply during a very busy day's pressures. *
On 6/14/2017 Dan said...
Best
It's the best AROUND*
On 5/26/2017 Carlos said...
L-THEANINE for Sleep.
It's an awesome product and quality, I take 800mg before bed and It helps me relax.*
On 5/16/2017 Raul said...
L-Theanine
Good quality product from Bulk Supplements.Putting in capsule, half full is enough for a good night sleep. *
On 4/30/2017 Harish said...
L-Theanine powder
love this product take it before bed if i am getting to bed late. with it i still wake up feeling like i slept 8 good hours !*
On 4/21/2017 Rick said...
Better than Green Tea!
This powder works wonders. I use it daily as it helps calm me down and focus. It's like brewing up green tea, smelling it, and drinking it. Except you have the feeling all day long. Highly recommend! *
On 4/17/2017 Brady said...
Combine with caffeine for clear focus; no jitters
Theanine is great to combine with caffeine so as to give a clear focus while using caffeine but none of the jitters you can get. As always, experiment to find the right dosage for you but I can tell you it's nice to have a lot of energy but not act like unfocused OCD nut because I only used caffeine alone.*
On 4/17/2017 Robert said...
Quality Product, Great Value
I use this product to control my blood pressure. Works so good that I dont even need prescription medication. Great product!*
On 4/4/2017 L-Theanine Bulk said...
L-Theanine Powdre
We are looking for bulk ingredients as part of a research and development plan for a proprietary product and ordered from Bulk Supplements. The price was excellent, the quality and packaging is excellent. We ordered a few other nutrients, all with the same quality. *
On 3/13/2017 Dr Charles Lemon said...
Quality product
Tastes sugary, relaxing effects that take the edge of caffeine/life. *
On 2/28/2017 Luc said...
Quality theanine
Another quality product from BS! I like to mix 0.35g with my preworkout to add synergistic effects with caffeine.*
On 2/26/2017 Carson said...
Quality theanine
Another quality product from BS! I like to mix 0.35g with my preworkout to add synergistic effects with caffeine.*
On 2/26/2017 Carson said...
L-Theanine
I use L-Theanine in my pre-workout with several other supplements that I've purchased from bulksupplements (cit-malate, beta alanine & more). L-Theanine works especially well when paired with the caffeine supplement that i purchased here. The two balance each other out very nice. I highly recommend that you try this & other supplements from bulksupplements website. They are the real deal! *
On 2/1/2017 Eric W said...
Works fine
I have a 250mg caffeine pill and I use ~200mg of L-Theanine powder as a mix.
Having this combo around 6am I have a very nice combination of clear mind, focusing and motivation, but without any caffeine rush. It lasts about 3-4 hours.
Very good product.*
On 1/21/2017 Alex said...
L-Theanine does work
Few things i can say about L-Theanine that it does work when i am stressed out. L-Theanine is the best way for me to get the mental focus and sleep I need and ordering from bulk supplements is even better because they have quilty products and reasonable price.*
On 12/12/2016 UMAR said...
Great for keeping the edge off
I really liked the quality of this product! I love strong preworkouts, but sometimes the jitters get to me and ruin it. This product keeps those away and helped keep me focused without the shakes! Great quality!*
On 12/8/2016 Josef said...
Decent
Works well so far. Does smell like paint, but I trust the quality. Quick shipping and decent price.*
On 11/17/2016 Nathan said...
L-Theanine
This is an excellent quality product! I use it in my coffee in the morning to help moderate the effects of caffiene, and as a nootropic. It's worked really well for me so far, and comes in a nice resealable package that keeps it from getting oxegenated.*
On 10/31/2016 Nathan said...
Stops mind from racing when trying to fall asleep
Just recently purchased the L-Theanine from Bulk supplements. I've been taking store brands for years as needed, but I love the price and purity (and no additives) with this product. I was somewhat disappointed that it did not dissolve in water, but I take a very small spoon full and chase it with water and I'm fine.*
On 10/31/2016 William C said...
It works like a tranqualizer
Calms me down and helps me focus on my studies*
On 10/24/2016 sylvia said...
Very Effective
It is a great supplement for taking the edge off caffeine.
It also helped my slep.*
On 10/3/2016 Kelvin said...
i love it
products are by far the best value. i absolutely loved it. *
On 9/29/2016 Chris said...
i love it
products are by far the best value. i absolutely loved it. *
On 9/29/2016 Chris said...
i love it
products are by far the best value. i absolutely loved it. *
On 9/29/2016 Chris said...
L-Theanine
L-Theanine is the incredible. This is one of the best supplements for relaxation and reducing stress, with zero side effects. It is safe and goes a long way when it comes to the end of the day. Its perfect to help get to sleep. I use L-Theanine regularly and have come to trust bulksupplements.com to provide the highest quality at the lowest price. Thanks.*
On 9/24/2016 Derek said...
L theanine powder
Great product. Just as advertised. It's easy to take down and works fast. Helps calm the nerves and ease the mind. I'll be keeping some on hand. *
On 9/14/2016 Adam said...
The best!
Will definitely be re-ordering a larger size!*
On 8/20/2016 robert said...
Takes the edge off a stressful day.
I work as a Wellness Specialist at a large international anti-aging and wellness company. I am very picky about what I put into myself. In the process of trying to customize a pre-workout for myself, I came across BulkSupplements. I have been pleased with the quality of these supplements and appreciate there is nothing added to them. The products I have been purchasing from bulk supplements I actually am able to obtain for a lower price than my excellent employee discount gets me from my employer. I have since began to suggest products from bulk supplements to my customers when appropriate. In a world of adulterated and questionable supplements, it is nice to have found another company that I trust for quality and purity. I recently purchased the l-theanine because of the excellent price. I am pleased with this product as well. It is supportive of restful sleep and can help take the edge off a stressful day.*
On 8/19/2016 Kevin said...
Excellent...
This l-theanine is unparalleled in quality. It mixes easily, has virtually no taste, and seems more potent (at equivalent milligram doses) than other L-theanine products I have used.
L-theanine helps me cope with the rigors of a hectic work/school life. When using L-theanine, I maintain a more level head and can concentrate with less fatigue and burnout. I generally take a small dose with my morning coffee and a small (but slightly larger) dose before bed. Awesome nootropic. .
A quick thank you is necessary, as bulk-supplements provides an excellent quality product at an unbeatable price. *
On 8/10/2016 Paul said...
Excellent...
This l-theanine is unparalleled in quality. It mixes easily, has virtually no taste, and seems more potent (at equivalent milligram doses) than other L-theanine products I have used.
L-theanine helps me cope with the rigors of a hectic work/school life. When using L-theanine, I maintain a more level head and can concentrate with less fatigue and burnout. I generally take a small dose with my morning coffee and a small (but slightly larger) dose before bed. Awesome nootropic. .
A quick thank you is necessary, as bulk-supplements provides an excellent quality product at an unbeatable price. *
On 8/10/2016 Paul said...
Bulk powder adds convenience to a great supplement
I have used L-Theanine for both myself and my dogs for several years. It helps to improve focus and quiet my racing thoughts, my dogs are less reactive to the unpredictable sounds of the world which reduces their stress. Every three weeks or so, I mix several supplements into pumpkin puree and freeze it into ice cubes for one of my dogs. It is so easy and fast to weigh the correct amount from the bulk powder for him vs opening all the capsules. I am in the process of converting as many of his capsulated products to bulk powder as possible. Thanks Bulk Supplements! *
On 7/3/2016 Alex said...
Great Product!!
L-Theanine is the best way for me to get the mental focus and sleep I need. This product is also great for reducing stress. Great costumer service and fast shipping! *
On 6/13/2016 Joel said...
Great Product!
Great Product, take when feeling anxious or stressed and really produces a sense of relaxation and calmness. Recommend this product highly for everyone!*
On 6/7/2016 Lawrence said...
GOOD for alertness and focus without the buzz
Fast shipment! L-Theanine works within an hour - calms me during stressful situations... I'm not so grouchy! I haven't tried it for sleep, just for calm in the morning and throughout the day. I take a scant 1/16 tsp in the morning and I'm good to go! If you have the set of tad, smidgen, drop, pinch, dash teaspoons, use the "pinch" - that equals 1/16 tsp, or 121mg... using a scant pinch spoon will be approximately 100mg! *
On 5/2/2016 Kimberlie said...
Excellent!
Really great pure L-Theanine. Has a nice effect with caffeine as part of my stimulant stack. Loved it and with really good shipping.*
On 4/15/2016 Philip said...
Great Product!
I am postmenopausal and have had sleep problems for years. I take this along with l-tyrosine, phytosterol, and ashwagandha about 30-40 minutes before bed and it knocks me out. Finally, I'm getting a good night's sleep!*
On 4/5/2016 Jennifer said...
Caffeine Optimized
L-Theanine is the perfect way to get the mental stimulant hit of caffeine (or other stimulants) while avoiding the resultant anxiety and blood pressure spikes. Also a very helpful sleep aid, if you're an anxious sleeper.*
On 3/29/2016 Connor said...
Great relax and sleep aid.
Sleep is one of three of the major components in building good quality muscle. You can lift all the weights in the gym, but if you don’t sleep, you won’t grow, it’s that simple. L-Theanine Is a good quality multi-benefit sleep aid/stress reliever.*
On 3/29/2016 Derrick said...
Awesome product
This company is the best! Great product! Effective.. Fast delivery...! *
On 3/27/2016 Gerard said...
L-Theanine powder Wow!
My 92 year old Mother-in-Law, suffering the effects of long term antidepressant use, including sleepless nights. She agreed to try to get off them. In an effort to help her with that, we gave her the following:
D3, Krill oil, Rhodiola Rosea, Alpha GTC, Pyridoxine, B12 spray, Thiamin, L-phenylalanine, 5-HTP, and L-theanine.
She responded well, but when we added the L-Theanine (last to arrive), she had marked improvement in her sleep and mood. Definitely worth noting! *
On 3/24/2016 Judy said...
satisfied customer
good product...arrived on time...good quality...will buy again.*
On 3/23/2016 gordon said...
L-theanine
This L-theanine was provided as a free sample in exchange for another review. So far, after only a few trials, we both found the L-theanine had an immediate calming effect, with increased feeling of tension later. Perhaps the L-theanine will be more continuously helpful if taken every few hours. Pure product, fast shipment. Bulk Supplements' customer service was outstanding as always!*
On 3/19/2016 Jonathan said...
Super!
I chose this product as my free sample. I've been interested in theanine since researching its cortisol lowering ability. I've been taking it on workout days and it definitely helps me relax and recover quicker from workouts!!*
On 3/12/2016 Terrance said...
L-Theanine powder
I received my order within a few days and have been taking it for the last few days, all I can say is wow! This is a great product that I purchased to Rhett rid of anxiety, and it has been working great! I would recommend this product to anybody who is looking to get rid of stress and anxiety. Bulk supplements.com is a great company and their customer service is awsome as well. Thank you!*
On 3/3/2016 johnny said...
L-Theanine Powder, A Great Product!
As always, Bulk Supplements has surpassed my expectations of service and product quality wow! I am impressed with the quality of the product and how it lives up to the other customer reviews.
I have had difficulties all of my adult life with sleeping and being able to relax when I go to bed. I need to take a sleep aid before I go to bed to be able to sleep even for a few short hours. I have found that if I take the L-Theanine (242mg) about an hour before I take the sleep aid I fall asleep much sooner. If a person has difficulties sleeping it is amazing how much help a few minutes can be.
I would highly recommend this product. I find that it meets my needs and I will add it to my future orders. It is my hope that I can get off the prescription sleep aid and use the L-Theanine.*
On 2/27/2016 Robert said...
Calm and focused
This product is great in my post workout shake. I workout early in the morning and I'm caffeine sensitive. The theanine helps me to focus at work and stay on task.*
On 2/26/2016 Kevin said...
L-Theanine
I received powdered L-Theanine about a week ago.I have been taking 200mg 3x a day,morning,afternoon and before bed.I have been fighting anxiety for 10 years now (64 yrs old) been on and off meds Lexapro etc.So far this is helping pretty good,takes the edge off without making me feel tired and helps me sleep.*
On 2/16/2016 John said...
Seems to work well
I've used this powder in the morning as well as at night for sleep. I do seem to feel more willing to get out and do things that usually bother me and I'm definitely sleeping better. The affects are very subtle but seem to be real.*
On 1/27/2016 Bill said...
Good Stuff
Always comes weighted accurately and seems potent enough. It works well in my daily stack and I've never had any problems getting my order quickly and efficiently. Barring any placebo in my mind, it is very effective. *
On 1/10/2016 James said...
Great Product, Fast Shipping, Excellent Customer Service
product seems pure and effective.*
On 1/10/2016 Lois said...
L-Theanine
I received a complimentary supply of L-Theanine for a recent review of Bulksupplements Rhodiola Rosea. I have only been taking the L-Theanine for ten days, but I can assure you I am already feeling the results. There are many other Bulksupplement products that I am anxious to try. I have complete confidence in BS products. I highly recommend. *
On 12/26/2015 Jack said...
L-Theanine
great sleep aid. I had been having trouble sleeping and this has done the trick. I sleep soundly throughout the night and wake feeling refreshed.
I recommend this to everyone.*
On 12/24/2015 Paul said...
Repeat Customer for a reason
I have ordered my Theanine from here multiple times, and will continue to do so in the future. The powder is accurately measured with every bag I have received after multiple weight tests on several analytic balances and digital scales accurate to .0001g ±.0001. Without doing a spectrum analysis on the powder I cannot attest to the purity, however I have always felt as though the effects have been substantial for what they are, and believe this to be a quality product.
I personally dose 200mg along with Caffeine twice per day to help with focus and mental stamina. I feel that it greatly helps. *
On 12/12/2015 Alex Jacobsen said...
Works as advertised
The powder is very clumpy but that's because it has no fillers! Theanine works great for calming/sleep! Product was shipped fast and in a responsible packaging! *
On 12/5/2015 emily said...
L Thianine
This is the second time i re-order this product it is great and pure from Bulk Supplements will not buy from other place full with additive do your research thank you Bulk Supplements for your fast and great service*
On 11/14/2015 Deva T said...
Excellent Product
Product arrived as described and worked as well as expected. There is really nothing better I can say about it! One caveat (although this may be a limitation of the product itself and not the manufacturing) was that the powder tends to clump up, making it a little difficult to combine evenly with other products without breaking up the clumps manually (very tedious to do). Again, not sure if that's due to how it is prepared or a property of the substance itself, just something I noticed.
I would not hesitate to recommend this product to anyone and have already ordered again!*
On 11/12/2015 Kyle said...
L-Theanine
I haven't used this product long enough to give it 5 stars, but as of night 2 I seem to be falling asleep more easily and sleeping better. Shipping was super fast and the product is good quality. *
On 10/28/2015 Jennifer said...
best one i tried yet
I just wanted too say thank you ! i have tried L-THEANINE from other cheap websites and felt no effect . The 1st time i tried your L-THEANINE, i slept like a baby and have not slept like that in YEARS ! Thanks for keeping a superior product !*
On 10/24/2015 joseph said...
Highly Recommended
I purchased this supplement to help with sleep. Wow I was not disappointed. I've tried L- Theanine before with lackluster results but the purity in this supplement is truly evident. It works.*
On 10/1/2015 DAVID said...
L-Theanine
This product works well. 300 mg before bed, and it helps me to fall quickly to sleep. Next day refreshed with no drowsiness. Melatonin always makes me groggy the following morning. This product doesn't and it kicks in within 20 minutes of ingestion. Will buy again.*
On 9/27/2015 Rick said...
Great product!
True l theanine and came promptly!*
On 9/19/2015 Curtis said...
Fantastic!
I had been looking for my usual coffee that had this in it, only I couldn't find the coffee anywhere. I drank this coffee when in school and it helped tremendously when studying. I decided I needed to find some and add it to my coffee on my own. Man was I ever excited to find Bulk Supplements and the L-THEANINE in a powder! On top of finding it I also found that I couldn't have asked for more from a company: dosage information, nutritional information, and made in a way that so totally agrees with me. Let's not forget pricing, delivery, and packaging! I decided not only to share what I had bought with a few family and friends, but I also happily shared the website so they could look for their own needs.
The reviews were also a godsend. Hearing other people tout the product and company made me feel good about diving in on a larger scale from the first, instead of going with a smaller size to "see" for myself.
I have now been using this every morning in my coffee and find that I am getting the results I had been hoping for; awake all day sitting in front of a computer doing monotonous work, energy to do the things I had been putting off, and FOCUS! I will be continuing to order from them but it will be awhile before I finish my L-THEANINE. This powder form is truly perfect for my needs and its ease of use makes me smile.
I shared some with my best friend who suffers from anxiety and after adjusting her dosage says its working wonderfully for her focus and anxiety.
My youngest son has started taking it and after a couple of days I got to ask him what he thought, a man of few words "Can you keep me stocked?"
I can't say enough good about both the product and the company.*
On 8/22/2015 Danica said...
Great Product
This supplement doesn't give me a "feeling" per se. I've been under tons of stress lately switching jobs, and as a result, I've been biting down real hard due to anxiety. I've had anxiety problems in the past. I catch myself biting down and stop, but most of the time the damage is done and my teeth hurt for the rest of the day. After starting this supplement, once in the morning and again in the afternoon, I've noticed that I don't bite down at all. I don't feel zoned out or lethargic, but it seems the stress doesn't effect me physically. Mentally, my mind no longer races and it seems easier to think through my situation productively and calmly, whereas before I would just focus on the problem and not the solution - leading to more stress and confusion.
The people here at bulk supplements have really helped me more than they even know, and as a result, I've told anyone who will listen about this website. Sometimes the timing of things is just so perfect. Thanks again, Bulk Supplements. Two thumbs up!*
On 8/10/2015 Thomas said...
L-Theanine
I'm very happy with my recent purchase of L-Theanine.
The quality is excellent,
and the customer service at BulkSupplements.com is great !!
I recommend this product and this company.*
On 7/26/2015 Ron said...
L-Focus
Increased focus, helps take the jittery feel of the caffeine while maintaining energy and focus. Great product!*
On 7/15/2015 Phil said...
L- theanine powder
I have been using this product for many years not awared I can get it pure
without any fillers ,I am very happy to have found the Bulk Supplements where you can buy all my supplements pure ,not to mentioned their fast service it is excellent .*
On 6/23/2015 Theresa said...
L Theanine
Paired best with caffine! Enhanced focus is noticeable. I take pre workout but Im also taking them to study. Thanks BULK*
On 6/17/2015 Duke said...
Great product
I feel a lot better within a week on using this product *
On 6/6/2015 Johnny said...
Great product
I have been taking this product for couple of days and already feel better *
On 6/6/2015 Johnny said...
Works beautifully to take the edge off caffeine
I purchased L-theanine to complement the caffeine anhydrous from Bulk Supplements and their products work fantastically to increase energy and keep focus.
I don't have a pill capper yet, so I just mix my powders in a little shot glass with water. The caffeine/theanine mixture doesn't have a bad taste, at least, not compared to piracetam and choline.
I ordered on a Friday, selected standard shipping, and received my order on Monday. Phenomenal! And really cheap! *
On 6/3/2015 Kelly said...
Fantastic Product
I work in a very stressful position, one that demands a lot of concentration and effort. I try to balance it out with running and lifting. The combination of L-Theanine and Phenibut is extremely helpful in handling stress, anxiety and depression. It also gives a boost of energy, helping my workout when I'm tempted to say, "I just don't feel like it." Try it. *
On 5/31/2015 Davis said...
L-Theanine helps keep my immune system healthy after the stress of running five fifty-second sprints in the mornings
First I want to say that according to the BulkSupplements website this l-theanine is rated US Pharmaceutical grade, a very high grade of purity (higher than food grade). This US-based purity test assures that regardless of the circumstances of the origin and manufacture of this l-theanine that purity problems of any kind should be extremely unlikely.
I run five fifty-second sprints in the mornings. Over the past year I have gotten bad colds lasting over two weeks several times. I figured it was due to exercising too hard. I have progressively cut back from eight fifty-second sprints seven days a week to five fifty-second sprints three days a week. But even breathing through my nose the entire time while running I was still getting colds. Taking 0.6 grams of n-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) three times a day knocked out the colds and stopped most of the coughing and sniffling at the end of the runs as well. But the clinical trials (listed below) say the combination of cysteine and theanine should be even more effective.
One drawback of the l-theanine is that I no longer have that "extreme" feeling after exercising, a feeling that lasts all day. It was in anticipation of this extreme feeling that motivated me to exercise in the first place.
The following is a list of clinical trials, most double-blinded and placebo-controlled, recorded at the National Medical Library, MEDLINE, as abstracted by GreenMedInfo for l-theanine.
1. L-theanine supports immune function.
2. Cystine (a dipeptide of cysteine) and theanine supplementation restores high-Intensity resistance exercise-induced attenuation of natural killer cell activity in well-trained men.
3. The theanine content of tea may be responsible for it significantly increasing immune function in users, relative to coffee consumption.
4. L-cystine and l-theanine may contribute to enhancing the immune response against the H1N1 virus.
5. L-theanine reduces psychological and physiological stress responses.
6. A combination of Magnolia, Epimedium, Theanine, Beta Sitosterol, Phosphatidylcholine reduces serum cortisol responses to physical stress.
7. L-theanine appears to improve cognitive function in mice.
8. L-theanine protects against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in a mouse model.
9. Theanine prevents memory impairment induced by repeated cerebral ischemia in rats.
10. Theanine suppresses oxygen-induced retinal neovascularization associated in a rat model of retinopathy.
11. L-theanine suppresses food intake in rats, and may lower insulin levels.
12. Theanine may assist in healthy brain function development in the offspring of those who consume it while lactating.
13. L-theanine attenuates beta-amyloid-induced cognitive dysfunction and neurotoxicity.
14. L-theanine provides neuroprotection against Parkinson's disease related pesticide neurotoxicants.
15. Theanine enhances the antitumor efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents.
16. Theanine inhibits the growth of leukemia and non-small cell lung cancer cells and enhances the anticancer activity of anticancer drugs.
17. Theanine inhibits the invasion of hepatoma cells.
18. Among healthcare workers for the elderly, taking green tea catechins and theanine may be effective prophylaxis for influenza infection.*
On 5/16/2015 Stephen said...
L-Theanine
The effects aren't very pronounced, but seems to provide a slight calming effect. It mixes a little better with warm or hot water (usually mix into coffee), and can be taken more than once throughout the day.*
On 5/15/2015 Deandre said...
Will buy again
I've been using this only for a few days but I DO feel a bit more relaxed. I'm going to slowly increase my dose, I wanted to start slowly. I'm happy with what I've experienced so far and I'll order again!*
On 5/7/2015 Lynda said...
Theanine
This has helped alot with my anxiety and mood. I will be ordering more.*
On 5/5/2015 Tim said...
Helps me with patience
I work in customer service and sometimes it's difficult for me to have patience when a customer is being difficult. Theanine helps me a great deal with this. Even my manager has commented on my improvement.*
On 5/1/2015 Paul said...
L-theanine
I found this product to be very calming. It eliminated racing thought which allowed me to relax and be more focused. I took 250mg, tid. I was able to watch a movie all the way through without distractions. I was able to fall asleep much more quickly. No taste. Mixed well with iced tea.*
On 4/29/2015 Kristina said...
l-theanine
This mixes well and relaxes me.I will buy again.*
On 4/25/2015 LUCETTE said...
Helps with focus and irritability
I mix l-theanine 1/8 tsp in my coffee every morning and it helps me feel calm, counteracts jitteriness from coffee, and improves focus. Sometimes I take a second dose in the evening if I am on edge or irritated and it helps with that also. Taking higher doses does not increase the effect for me.*
On 4/15/2015 Katie said...
Great Quality and Price
Like to take it before bad for good and deep sleep. Feel very rested and fresh in the morning. Also a very good combo with coffee*
On 4/13/2015 Nikita said...
l theanine
I like that it's pure and free of additives . No taste and mixes well. 5 star rating for price too.*
On 4/11/2015 lisabeth said...
great product and service
I tried this because my boyfriend uses it and wow this really made a difference instantly. I felt happier more focused. Definitely a great product! service and promptness of delivery was great thank you. *
On 4/6/2015 Melissa said...
Increases focus, as well as helping me sleep better
This increases focus when I take it with caffeine, and it seems to reduce my ADD symptoms as well (I have been professionally diagnosed with adult ADD.) I also tend to fall asleep easier and wake up feeling more refreshed.
It doesn't mix easily with water unless I use a hand blender, but this isn't much of a problem. Once it dissolves, it dissolves completely--no powdery residue on the bottom of the glass. You can also mix it into food, it has a mild taste which is slightly sweet and slightly salty.*
On 4/2/2015 Paul said...
perfect
Definitely has a calming effect when taken daily. I am a full time student and it definitely helps.*
On 3/20/2015 John said...
Lovely stuff
Took just under 200mg in a capsule along with some caffeine (as suggested by other reviews).
I feel so much more mental clarity; holding long, meaningful conversations is easy.
I think we have another winner. Thanks BS. *
On 3/12/2015 Daimon said...
great
this product works and works even better for productivity and focus when stacked with caffeine.*
On 3/12/2015 Justin said...
Excellent
I've been using this about 2 weeks and noticed I am significantly more relaxed, especially in the morning. I am a college student taking 21 credits, so stress is high. But this works!*
On 3/7/2015 Chris said...
Great Product!
I meant to rate this product 5 stars! I was too busy writing about how great it is I think I ranked it 0!!!*
On 3/4/2015 Ryan said...
Awesome Product! Quick Shipping!!
I have been taking theanine for about a week now. It seems to have tremendous effects (but still subtle) compared to GABA. L-Theanine easily crosses the blood brain barrier, unlike GABA, but has similar effects. It is perfect for my anxiety, fear of public speaking, and stress. Even better, it does not effect my performance at all. If anything, I can think more clearly. It does not slow you down cognitively like anti anxiety prescriptions, and does not make you sleepy (but definitely relaxed). I'm not a big tea drinker, so this is my alternative way of getting L-theanine. The product is great and I have had lightning fast delivery from this company 2 times now. I highly recommend it if you have anxiety or social phobia of any kind. Buy this now!*
On 3/3/2015 Ryan said...
Very high quality L-Theanine
I have taken 200mg of L-Theanine daily for quite a few years and the effects have been transformative. It calms my nerves leaving me in a pleasant and productive state of consciousness. The L-Theanine from Bulk Supplements is some of the best I've encountered, and I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone.*
On 1/17/2015 Conrad said...
Useful
Cap this and pair it with caffeine for a productivity supplement.*
On 1/16/2015 Mike said...
Great Product, Great Company
This product is great for reducing my stress and anxiety, the price is competitive, and the company has great Customer Service- I have finally found a company that I trust! Thanks, Bulk Supplements!*
On 1/16/2015 Courtney said...
L-Theanine perfect with Valerian root for alleviating stress
Theanine works as advertised and when coupled with Valerian Root, this works wonders! *
On 1/15/2015 Derek said...
Effective..
I don't need that much of L-Theanine to feel its effects. Just 100 mg twice a day, usually morning and lunch gives me an alert feeling without putting me to sleep. Will continue use for a month or so to see if I want to add to my regime.*
On 12/22/2014 Paul said...
Highly effective product!
I have found that this product really does help to reduce anxiety, calm the mind, and allow me to focus for several hours. A large bolus taken at bedtime also puts me to sleep with relative ease, and doesn't seem to have the "hangover" effects that diphenhydramine or other antihistamines have. Will definitely consider this a staple in my supplement suite. *
On 12/18/2014 Michael said...
Multiple Beneficial Effects
I have been taking theanine for its little known anti-histamine action so that I can avoid otc anti-histamines that jack up your liver. The dopamine boosting effect is pretty sweet too. Unfortunately, the substance only has a half-life of 2-3 hours, so you do have to re-intake throughout the day. Great price here.*
On 12/8/2014 sean said...
Great for Anxiety and Pre-Workouts!
Bought this for both anxiety use as well as pre workout use when mixing with caffeine. I have suffered from anxiety for a few years and never liked taking benzos. This helps calm me and really work well with caffiene to take away the jitters! Mixes well and great price!*
On 12/5/2014 Mike said...
L-Theanine (50 g pure powder)
I work in the herbal health foods industry and have read a lot of positive articles about the benefits of L-Theanine, which is essentially highly concentrated green tea extract. It basically gives you a state of "calm focus" without any negative side effects. I've found the Bulk Supplements powder to be extremely fast-acting. I take it at work when I really need to focus and/or when I'm under stress. Great stuff. The company's trademark fast delivery sealed the deal. Will order again for sure.*
On 10/10/2014 Robert said...
Ultimate zen
If you want to remain calm and yet focused, this is the product! If you get nervous taking tests, speaking to groups or doing anything else where you need to be calm yet at the top of your game, this is the only product you need! Gives those taking it an 'unfair' advantage during tests. It allows you to access the information you have that is usually blocked by anxiety. Can't say enough about how great it is. I first tried it in pill form I bought at a vitamin shop - and paid 20 times what I did here. Thanks guys!*
On 9/29/2014 rich said...
Synergy!
It works great together with caffeine! It gets rid of all the negatives such as the jitters and the anxiety. *
On 9/29/2014 Justin H said...
Best L-theanine
I didn't buy this for a nootropic, I didn't even know about nootropics at the time I started taking this supplement two months ago. I was recommended to take it to help my body relax. I have a neurological pain disorder and have trouble relaxing as well as chronic pain. I can feel the relaxation wash through my body after taking 1/4 tsp, it helps me sleep and my pain has drasitically reduced. My cognition is doing better but not sure if it is just the L-theanine because I am doing a stack that has boosted my brain a lot. I really recommend BUlk supplements, not only are they fast at getting me the product but they are very fresh and their purity is unmatched. I had tried other L-theanine supplements but they all had cellulose added and did not benefit me at all. I am so grateful to have found this pure powder. I haven't needed pain medication since starting my stacks.*
On 9/17/2014 A. said...
Works for my Anxiety where all others have failed.
I have tried dozens of other L-Theamine/Suntheamine supplements on the market. Both pure and mixed with other ingredients. This is the only that has worked for me. I mix it with caff product like Diet Coke.*
On 8/31/2014 Randall said...
calms my mind without sleepiness
this is a great product to add to my protocol daily. relaxing yet it won't make you sleepy*
On 8/28/2014 Joseph said...
L-Theanine works wonders.
I have been using this product for the last 2 weeks and I can honestly say it does work extremely well. The price is good and the quality seems to be high grade stuff. Thank you bulksupplements*
On 8/23/2014 William said...
Great Nootropic
L-Theanine is a great nootropic, in other words, it helps with cognitive function. I've used it to take important exams and also as a part of a preworkout supplement. The mental clarity it gives me, coupled with caffeine is incredible. There are some days I go to gym after a long day at work, and Theanine delivers in getting me focused in ways that caffeine alone cannot do. My only gripe is that the powder is a bit on the sticky side. Think flour consistency instead of sugar. However, this is the nature of the compound, and NOT the manufacturer. This minor nuisance is far outweighed by Theanine's cognitive benefits. I'm definitely buying more. *
On 8/15/2014 Mike said...
II need L-theanine for my anxiety
I've been spending a lot of money on L-thenine caps for months now.
I've found it really helps with my anxiety.
I use it with GABA and have been much more calm and stressfree since I've been using it.
To find a pure, high-quality L-theanine here for 1/10 of the price I'm paying for the pills is extraordinary!
I wish I'd know about Bulk Supplements a long time ago.
I'll be ordering a lot of other products in the future.
*
On 8/14/2014 Liz said...
Suprising
I ordered this product not thinking it would have that much of an affect on my general mood but it has. I started taking it during the day and I am much more relaxed in general.*
On 8/8/2014 colby said...
Great stuff
If you're looking at getting this, it's highly likely you've done your research. Theanine is a great, natural relaxant. I sometimes mix it with caffeine to avoid feeling jittery, but usually just take it by itself in the morning and evening. I can hardly taste it even when mixed with just a few ounces of water. I actually didn't realize I had taken it before: I used to take melatonin while I was in college to make sure I got enough sleep, and the pills I took were a mix of melatonin and theanine. No ill effects after having used this product for several years on an almost daily basis.*
On 7/14/2014 John said...
Works for me, sleep aid and anti-anxiety
200mg to 600mg during the day/morning helps with anxiety.
same dose when combined with phenibut (bulk sup as well) will help with easing to sleep.*
On 7/7/2014 Curtis said...
Calm before bedtime
Add 100mg to casein protein to relax on those overwhelming days. Great price and mixes well. *
On 6/7/2014 Darius said...
High Quality
This is a high quality product - Pure, no fillers. I dose between 100 - 200mgs for nice relaxing effect that isn't over-sedating. Excellent customer service as well!*
On 4/30/2014 Jeff said...
I love it!
I am in college and I take this along with the caffeine powder Bulksupplements sells and it is the perfect combination, awake but not jittery. I put this in my drink and have it all day long. *
On 3/21/2014 JoEllen said...
Rate this product?
*Name
*Review Title
*Review
Submit Review
Only registered users can write reviews. Please, log in or register
Ask Question
Product Questions
Name*
Email Address*
Is Question Private?
Send Question
Question will be displayed after moderation.
No questions yet. Be the first to ask the question!
Company Information
About Us
Privacy Policy & Terms
Coupon Codes
Countries We Ship To
Affiliate Program
Influencer Program
Bulk Supplements Community
Wholesale
Mobile Version
Customer Service
Your Account
Return Policy
Knowledge Base
Request a COA
Contact Us
Useful Tips and Information
Pure Bulk Powders
Vitamins
Amino Acids
Protein Powder
Herbal Extracts
Connect With Us
Find Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
© 2019 Bulk Supplements. All Rights Reserved.
Hard Eight Nutrition LLC dba BulkSupplements.com products are produced in a FDA Registered and Inspected Manufacturing Facility.
FDA Registration # : 17938017996