Selenium in cancer prevention: a review of the evidence and mechanism of action - Surrey Research Insight Open Access
Skip to content
University of Surrey
Search the University of Surrey Search term
Web site navigation
Home|
Study|
Research|
Business|
Arts|
About Us|
Media Centre|
Alumni
Breadcrumb navigation
Home
Surrey Research Insight Open Access
This page can be printed
Surrey Research Insight Open Access
Home »
About SRI »
Our service »
News »
Policies »
Search »
Browse »
Theses »
For Authors
Login
Deposit Guide »
Copyright »
Usage Statistics »
Open Access Resources »
FAQ »
Contact us »
Selenium in cancer prevention: a review of the evidence and mechanism of action
Tools
Tools
Tools
RDF+XML BibTeX RDF+N-Triples JSON RefWorks Dublin Core Simple Metadata Refer METS HTML Citation ASCII Citation OpenURL ContextObject EndNote OpenURL ContextObject in Span MODS MPEG-21 DIDL EP3 XML Data Cite XML Reference Manager RDF+N3 Multiline CSV
Rayman, MP (2005) Selenium in cancer prevention: a review of the evidence and mechanism of action P NUTR SOC, 64 (4). pp. 527-542.
Preview
Text
selenium_cancer_prevention_RAYMAN_05.pdf - Version of Record
Download (163kB)
Official URL: http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstra...
Abstract
Se is an unusual trace element in having its own codon in mRNA that specifies its insertion into selenoproteins as selenocysteine (SeCys), by means of a mechanism requiring a large SeCysinsertion complex. This exacting insertion machinery for selenoprotein production has implications for the Se requirements for cancer prevention. If Se may protect against cancer, an adequate intake of Se is desirable. However, the level of intake in Europe and some parts of the world is not adequate for full expression of protective selenoproteins. The evidence for Se as a cancer preventive agent includes that from geographic, animal, prospective and intervention studies. Newly-published prospective studies on oesophageal, gastric-cardia and lung cancer have reinforced previous evidence, which is particularly strong for prostate cancer. Interventions with Se have shown benefit in reducing the risk of cancer incidence and mortality in all cancers combined, and specifically in liver, prostate, colo-rectal and lung cancers. The effect seems to be strongest in those individuals with the lowest Se status. As the level of Se that appears to be required for optimal effect is higher than that previously understood to be required to maximise the activity of selenoenzymes, the question has been raised as to whether selenoproteins are involved in the anti-cancer process. However, recent evidence showing an association between Se, reduction of DNA damage and oxidative stress together with data showing an effect of selenoprotein genotype on cancer risk implies that selenoproteins are indeed implicated. The likelihood of simultaneous and consecutive effects at different cancer stages still allows an important role for anti-cancer Se metabolites such as methyl selenol formed from g-glutamyl-selenomethyl-SeCys and selenomethyl-SeCys, components identified in certain plants and Se-enriched yeast that have anti-cancer effects. There is some evidence that Se may affect not only cancer risk but also progression and metastasis. Current primary and secondary prevention trials of Se are underway in the USA, including the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT) relating to prostate cancer, although a large European trial is still desirable given the likelihood of a stronger effect in populations of lower Se status.
Item Type:
Article
Divisions :
Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences > School of Biosciences and Medicine > Department of Nutritional Sciences
Authors :
Rayman, MP
Date :
November 2005
DOI :
10.1079/PNS2005467
Uncontrolled Keywords :
selenium, cancer, mechanism, selenomethyl-selenocysteine, selenoprotein single-nucleotide polymorphism, BASE-LINE CHARACTERISTICS, PROSTATE-CANCER, SERUM SELENIUM, SE-METHYLSELENOCYSTEINE, DIETARY SELENIUM, GLUTATHIONE-PEROXIDASE, SUBSEQUENT RISK, BREAST-CANCER, VITAMIN-E, IN-VITRO
Depositing User :
Melanie Hughes
Date Deposited :
05 Nov 2010 14:03
Last Modified :
31 Oct 2017 14:05
URI:
http://epubs.surrey.ac.uk/id/eprint/2596
Actions (login required)
View Item
Downloads
Downloads per month over past year
Information about this web site
Accessibility
Contacting the University
Disclaimer
Freedom of Information
© The University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, United Kingdom.
+44 (0)1483 300800