Achilles tendon rupture - aftercare
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Home
View Plans
Individual & Family Plans
Senior Health Plan
Employer Group Plans
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Members
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Employers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Providers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Brokers
Wellness
Search
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Website Search
Health Encyclopedia
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Networks & Affiliations
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Contact Us
Take Charge
Your Symptoms
Self Care
In-Depth Reports
Diseases & Conditions
Surgeries & Procedures
Injuries
Tests
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
Multimedia Encyclopedia
Tobacco Cessation
Calculators
Smoking Cessation
Body Mass Index Calculator
Calorie Burner Counter Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Desirable Body Weight Calculator
Nutritional Needs Calculator
Waist to Hip Calculator
Risky Drinking
Wellness Tools
Stress and Anxiety
Diet & Nutrition
Emotional Health
Fitness
Sleep Health
Work & Life Balance
Career Burnout
Allergy
Cancer Prevention Guide
Depression
Diabetes
Heart Attack & Disease Risk
Menopause
Pain
Stroke Risk
Additional Resources
Wellness Promotions
Symptom Checker
Preventive Health Guidelines
Important Health Topics
Browse A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
0-9
Print-Friendly
Bookmarks
Achilles tendon rupture - aftercare
Heel cord tear; Calcaneal tendon rupture
The Achilles tendon connects your calf muscles to your heel bone. Together, they help you push your heel off the ground and go up on your toes. You use these muscles and your Achilles tendon when you walk, run, and jump.
If your Achilles tendon stretches too far, it can tear or rupture. If this happens, you may:
Hear a snapping, cracking, or popping sound and feel a sharp pain in the back of your leg or ankle
Have trouble moving your foot to walk or go up stairs
Have difficulty standing on your toes
Have bruising or swelling in your leg or foot
Feel like the back of your ankle was hit with a bat
About Your Injury
Most likely your injury occurred when you:
Suddenly pushed your foot off the ground, to go from walking to running, or to running uphill
Tripped and fell, or had another accident
Played a sport like tennis or basketball, with a lot of stopping and sharp turns
Most injuries can be diagnosed during a physical exam. You may need an MRI scan to see what type of Achilles tendon tear you have. An MRI is a type of imaging test.
MRI scan
A leg MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan of the leg uses strong magnets to create pictures of the leg. This may include the ankle, foot, and surr...
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
A partial tear means at least some of the tendon is still OK.
A full tear means your tendon is torn completely and the 2 sides are not attached to each other.
What to Expect
If you have a complete tear, you may need surgery to repair your tendon. Your doctor will discuss the pros and cons of surgery with you. Before surgery, you will wear a special boot that keeps you from moving your lower leg and foot.
Surgery to repair your tendon
Your Achilles tendon joins your calf muscle to your heel. You can tear your Achilles tendon if you land hard on your heel during sports, from a jump...
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
For a partial tear:
You may need surgery.
Instead of surgery, you may need to wear a cast, leg brace, splint, or boot for about 6 weeks. During this time, your tendon grows back together.
If you have a cast, it will cover your foot and go to your knee. Your toes will be pointing downward. The cast will be changed every 2 to 3 weeks to help stretch your tendon.
If you have a leg brace, splint, or boot, it will keep you from moving your foot. This will prevent further injury. You can walk once your doctor says it is OK to.
Symptom Relief
To relieve swelling:
Put an ice pack on the area right after you injure it.
Use pillows to raise your leg above the level of your heart when you sleep.
Keep your foot elevated when you are sitting.
You can take ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), naproxen (such as Aleve or Naprosyn), or acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain.
Remember to:
Talk with your health care provider if you have heart disease, liver disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding.
Consider quitting smoking (smoking can affect healing after surgery).
NOT give aspirin to children under 12.
NOT take more pain killer than the dosage recommended on the bottle or by your provider.
Rehab and Activity
At some point as you recover, your provider will ask you to begin moving your heel. This may be as soon as 2 to 3 weeks or as long 6 weeks after your injury.
With the help of physical therapy, most people can return to normal activity in 4 to 6 months. In physical therapy, you will learn exercises to make your calf muscles stronger and your Achilles tendon more flexible.
When you stretch your calf muscles, do so slowly. Also, do not bounce or use too much force when you use your leg.
After you heal, you are at greater risk for injuring your Achilles tendon again. You will need to:
Stay in good shape and stretch before any exercise
Avoid high-heeled shoes
Ask your provider if it is OK for you to play tennis, racquetball, basketball, and other sports where you stop and start
Do proper amount of warm up and stretching ahead of time
When to Call the Doctor
Call your provider if you have any of these symptoms:
Swelling or pain in your leg, ankle, or foot becomes worse
Purple color to leg or foot
Fever
Swelling in your calf and foot
Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Also call your provider if you have questions or concerns that cannot wait until your next visit.
Open References
References
Rose NGW, Green TJ. Ankle and foot. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.
Sokolove PE, Barnes DK. Extensor and flexor tendon injuries in the hand, wrist, and foot. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.
BACK TO TOP
All
Video
Images
Tog
Self Care
Achilles tendon rupture - aftercare
Heel pain and Achilles tendonitis - aftercare
Related Information
Review Date: 4/9/2018
Reviewed By: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., a business unit of Ebix, Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Fire Fox and Google Chrome browser.
Privacy & Compliance
Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (Consumer Information Disclosure)
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act)
Report Suspected Health Care Fraud, Waste or Abuse
Compliance Program and Code of Excellence
Nondiscrimination Statement
Careers
When you choose CommunityCare as your employer, you join a staff of highly motivated individuals who make CommunityCare Oklahoma's best choice for healthcare.
CommunityCare is just as dedicated to our employees as we are to our customers and our business. We make it a priority to provide our staff with all the tools necessary to have a long, fruitful career with our company.
Find out more
Newsroom Activity
Seasonal Triggers for Individuals With COPD
4/19/2019
Do You Take Diabetes Medicine?
3 months ago
Care Corner: You Asked, We Answer
3 months ago
Visit the Newsroom
Home
Contact Us
Find Health Insurance
Health & Wellness
Employee Assistance Program
Site Map
Language Assistance
Español
Tiếng Việt
繁體中文
한국어
Deutsch
العربية
Hmoob
Tagalog
Français
ພາສາລາວ
ภาษาไทย
اُردُو
tsalagi gawonihisdi
فارسی
© 2019 CommunityCare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
tul-pubweb-4
CommunityCare is proudly owned by our region's two premier health systems. Other physicians and providers are available in our network.