Reza Jarrahy, MD : Plastic Surgery - Los Angeles, California
UCLA Health
myUCLAhealth
School of Medicine
Toggle navigation
About Us
What is UCLA Health?
Contact Us
Your Feedback
Accountable Care Organization
Awards & Achievements
Careers
Careers for Physicians
Departments - Administrative
Departments - Clinical
Giving to UCLA Health
In the Community
340B Program
Industry Relations
Innovation
Leadership
News Releases
Price Transparency
Social Media
Contact
Your Feedback
Accountable Care Organization
Awards and Achievements
Careers
Careers for Physicians
Departments - Administrative
Departments - Clinical
Giving to UCLA Health
Industry Relations
Innovation
In the Community
340B Program
Leadership
News Releases
Price Transparency
Social Media
Subscribe to UCLA Health Newsletters
Conditions & Treatment
Health Library
Tests & Procedures
Drug Interaction Checker
Brain & Nervous System
Cancer
Children's Health
Heart Disease
Nutrition & Wellness
Pregnancy & Newborns
Orthopedics
Women's Health
Video Library
Cancer
Cardiovascular
Chiropractic
Cosmetic Surgery
Ear, Nose and Throat
Gastrointestinal
General Healthcare
Neurological
Obstetrics/Gynecology
See all videos...
Video Library
Locations
Hospitals
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica
UCLA Mattel Children's Hospital
Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital
Institutes and Centers
Take a Virtual Tour
Medical Offices/Clinics
Primary Care
Specialty Care
Urgent Care Centers
Outpatient Surgery Centers
Community Cancer Care
Imaging/Radiology Locations
Clinical Labs
Pharmacies
Interactive Map
Locations Coming Soon
UCLA Hospitals
Take a Virtual Tour
Primary Care Practices
Specialty Care Practices
Urgent Care Centers
Outpatient Surgery Centers
Other Locations
Interactive Map
Coming Soon!
Medical Services
For Patients & Visitors
Directions & Parking
Appointments: Call, Click, Come In
Admissions
Preparing For Surgery
Patient Services
Security & Parking Services
Office of the Patient Experience
For International Patients
Lodging & Nearby Services
Around Westwood
Gift Shops & Flowers
Health Resources
Log in to myUCLAhealth
Billing and Insurance
Medical Records
Accountable Care Organization (ACO)
Price Transparency
Interactive Patient Education Videos (Emmi)
FAQs
Calendar of Events
Secure Email Messages
Share Your Story
Health Publications
Vital Signs Newsletters
Health Tips for Parents
Contact Us
Appointments: Call, Click, Come in
Admissions Information
Advance Directive
Directions & Parking
Patient Services
Medical Records
myUCLAhealth
Smoke-Free
Publications
Health Resources
Around Westwood
Lodging
Preparing For Surgery
Patient-focused Technology Council
Health Forms
End of Life Option Act: Resources & Materials
Frequently Asked Questions
Secure Email Messages
Gift Shops
For Healthcare Professionals
Referring a Patient
Continuing Medical Education
Ethics Center
UCLA HealthLink
Physician to Physician Access Line (P2P)
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Clinical Informatics Fellowship
Academic Positions
Physician Careers
UCLA School of Dentistry
UCLA School of Nursing
Department of Nursing
Physician Publications
Physicians Update
Clinical Updates
U Magazine
Physician to Physician Access Line (P2P)
Physician Careers
Clinical Informatics Fellowship
Flu Resources for Healthcare Professionals
Publications
Multimedia
UCLAMDCHAT Webinars
Community Health Program Videos
iTunes
Download Our Apps
Mini Med School
Demystifying Cancer Forum
TEDx UCLA Videos
Tips from our Physical Therapists
Patient Stories
Real Questions
Webinars on Demand
Pediatric Grand Rounds
Community Health Program Videos
UCLAMDChat Webinars
iTunes
Download Our Apps
Mini Med School
Demystifying Cancer Forum
TEDx UCLA Videos
Tips From Our Physical Therapists
Patient Stories
Real Questions
Back Pain Management
Find a Provider
UCLA Health
myUCLAhealth
School of Medicine
Find a Provider
Home
Find a Provider
Find a Provider
Share this
Share Care URL
Specialty:
Plastic Surgery
Hospital Affiliation:
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica
State License:
A66518
Phone:
310-825-0065
Health Plans:
Accepted Plans
About Me
Locations
Education
Clinical Interests
Research
News & Awards
Videos
About Me
Dr. Reza Jarrahy, Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery and Pediatrics, is one of the most experienced and well-regarded craniofacial surgeons in Southern California. He is recognized regionally, nationally, and internationally as a leader in his field. His professional activities over the past decade have helped advance patient care, research, education, and global health initiatives in plastic surgery locally and around the world.
Dr. Jarrahy was born and raised in New York City and attended Hunter College High School, one of New York City's highly competitive city-wide specialized schools. He graduated from high school as valedictorian and went on to earn his Bachelor's degree from Stanford University, where he studied Biological Sciences and Italian Studies. After medical school at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, he completed his general surgery residency at New York University and the University of California at San Diego. Dr. Jarrahy went on to plastic surgery residency at UCLA and, upon graduating, was accepted into the UCLA Craniofacial Surgery Fellowship—one of the most highly regarded programs of its kind in the nation—under the direction of Dr. Henry Kawamoto, the founder of the Fellowship and one of the world's most eminent craniofacial surgeons. Since joining the UCLA full-time plastic surgery faculty in 2007, Dr. Jarrahy has continued to honor Dr. Kawamoto’s legacy by providing leadership and continuity to the program. He has trained all of UCLA’s craniofacial fellows since that time and continues to mentor fellows who come to train at UCLA from around the country and all over the world.
During his clinical residency and fellowship years, Dr. Jarrahy also completed three years of dedicated research training. This experience prepared him for his current career in academic medicine and research, resulting today in a robust and productive research program that is characterized by the publication of many peer-reviewed journal publications and book chapters, and the delivery of many scientific presentations and invited lectures around the world. Dr. Jarrahy's research has been recognized by leading scientists in the field of academic plastic surgery, who have bestowed upon him numerous prestigious research awards.
Since completing his training, Dr. Jarrahy has committed himself in an uninterrupted fashion to promoting the field of craniofacial surgery and to caring for craniofacial patients. He has extensive experience in the treatment of the most complex craniofacial anomalies, as well as complex reconstructive surgery of the head and neck, including cleft lip and palate, craniosynostosis repair, jaw surgery, ear reconstruction, soft tissue and bone tumor reconstruction, and many others. He has worked non-stop over the past decade to advance the interests of children born with facial birth defects in the operating room, the laboratory, and through his involvement in philanthropy and community service. As a result of his in-depth knowledge of the craniofacial skeleton and soft tissues, he has also earned a reputation as an excellent aesthetic surgeon of the face and neck, whose attention to detail consistently results in superb natural results and very satisfied patients. Dr. Jarrahy serves these patients and the community at large as Assistant Chief of Plastic Surgery at Olive View-UCLA Medical Center, Co-Director of the UCLA Craniofacial Clinic, and Co-Director of the UCLA Face Transplant Program.
Dr. Jarrahy's extensive experience has earned him numerous positions of leadership in various professional societies, including the American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons, where he has served as a Board member for the past several years. He also serves as a faculty advisor to the UCLA Blum Center for Poverty and Health in Latin America, the UCLA Latin American Institute, and the UCLA School of Medicine Center for World Health, where he continues to support the development of global health programs for undergraduates, graduate students, and medical students.
Perhaps more than any other quality, Dr. Jarrahy is best known for his humanism and his humanitarianism. He continues to travel overseas multiple times per year to operate and engage in community service projects in developing nations, serving some of the most vulnerable children on the planet. He is the proud recipient of a 2016 UCLA Health Teaching Humanism Award, in recognition of his contributions as a role model and teacher of patient-centered care.
Patient Stories
Severely damaged face saved by THE best; Dr. Reza Jarrahy!
Dr. Jarrahy is one of the best!
Phrenic Nerve Injury Treatment | UCLA Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
Links
surgery.ucla.edu
uclahealth.org/plasticsurgery
Primary Office
UCLA Cosmetic Surgery Center
Primary Address
200 UCLA Medical Plaza
Suite 465
Los Angeles, California 90095
Get Directions
View Map
Phone
310-825-0065
Secondary Office
Santa Monica - Pediatrics, Primary & Specialty Care
Secondary Address
1131 Wilshire Blvd
Suite 202
Santa Monica, California 90401
Get Directions
View Map
Phone
424-259-8570
Medical Board Certifications
Plastic Surgery, American Board of Plastic Surgery, 2008
Fellowship
Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 1998-2000
Fellowship 2
Plastic Surgery, UCLA School of Medicine, 2004-2006
Residency
Surgery, New York University Medical Center, 1997-1998
Residency 2
Surgery, UCSD Medical Center, 2000-2003
Internship
Surgery, New York University Medical Center, 1996-1997
Degree
SUNY Stony Brook School of Medicine, MD, 1996
Interests
Abdominoplasty
Tummy Tuck
In a tummy tuck procedure, excess fat and skin are surgically removed from the middle and lower abdomen, and the muscles of the abdomen wall are tightened.
Learn more >
Aesthetic Dermatology (BOTOX, Fillers, and Chemical Peels)
Blepharoplasty
Eyelid Lift
The medical term for an eyelid lift is blepharoplasty. This procedure can remove puffiness or bags under the eyes. It can also correct droopy eyelids.
Learn more >
Body Contouring
Body Contouring After Weight-Loss Surgery
Body contouring is a type of surgery that improves how you look. It’s done after you lose a large amount of weight. This type of surgery gets rid of extra skin folds and other surrounding tissue. This gives your body smoother contours.
Learn more >
Botox
Breast Reconstruction (breast augmentation, breast lifts, breast reduction)
Breast Augmentation Surgery
Breast augmentation surgery increases the size or the fullness of the breasts using sacs filled with fluid or gel. These sacs are called breast implants.
Learn more >
Burn Care
Burns
Detailed information on burns, burn types, classification of burns, burn treatment, and burn rehabilitation
Learn more >
Chemical Peels
Chemical Peel
A chemical peel uses a chemical solution to improve the skin's appearance by removing the damaged outer layers. It can reduce or remove fine lines under the eyes and around the mouth.
Learn more >
Cosmetic/Aesthetic Surgery (facelift, necklift, browlift, eyelid surgery)
Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Overview
Cosmetic plastic surgery is performed in order to change one's appearance. For some, it may mean redesigning the body's contour and shape or the elimination of wrinkles. Others may choose varicose vein treatment or breast augmentation.
Learn more >
Craniofacial
Derma Fillers
Dermabrasion/Microdermabrasion
Dermabrasion and Dermaplaning
Dermabrasion involves a surgeon using a high speed rotating brush to remove the top layer of skin. This is done to remove fine wrinkles or minimize scars. The size and depth of the scars, as well as the degree of wrinkling, determine the appropriate level of skin that will be surgically sloughed.
Learn more >
Facial Palsy
Bell's Palsy
Bell's palsy is an unexplained episode of facial muscle weakness or paralysis that begins suddenly and worsens over 48 hours. It is caused by a damaged facial nerve. Pain and discomfort usually occur on one side of the face or head.
Learn more >
General Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
Reconstructive Plastic Surgery Overview
The goal of reconstructive plastic surgery is to improve body function, but the surgery may also be performed to create a more normal appearance and improve self-esteem.
Learn more >
Laser
Liposuction
Liposuction
Liposuction removes excess body fat through a suctioning process. It is not a substitute for weight loss, but it does change the body's shape and contour.
Learn more >
Lower Extremity Reconstruction
Nerve Reconstruction
Neurological Disorders
Here is a list of nervous system disorders that require clinical care by a physician or other healthcare professional.
Learn more >
Pediatrics
Reconstruction of Facial Skin Cancer Defects
Overview of Plastic Surgery
Plastic surgery is a surgical specialty involved with the improvement in a person's appearance and reconstruction of facial and body tissue defects caused by illness, trauma, or birth disorders.
Learn more >
Rhinoplasty
Rhinoplasty
Rhinoplasty is surgery to change the size or shape of your nose. It is also called a nose job. This procedure is usually used to make the nose smaller or to narrow it. But it can also make the nose larger.
Learn more >
Scar Revision
Scar Revision
A scar revision is a procedure done on a scar to alter the appearance of the scar. The revision may improve the cosmetic appearance of the scar or restore function to a part of the body that may have been restricted by the scar. It is important to remember that scars cannot be completely removed.
Learn more >
Silicone Problems
Breast Augmentation
Breast augmentation is a procedure to reshape the breast to make it larger. The procedure can also be done to reconstruct the breast after breast surgery.
Learn more >
Skin Cancer
Melanoma: Introduction
Melanoma is a serious type of skin cancer. It starts in skin cells called melanocytes. Melanocytes are what give skin its color. There are 3 main types of skin cancer. Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma are more common. Melanoma is a much less common, but melanoma is more likely to spread to other parts of the body.
Learn more >
Skin Lesion Ear
Actinic Keratosis
Actinic keratosis is a rough, scaly patch or bump on the skin. It’s also known as a solar keratosis. Actinic keratoses are very common, and many people have them. They are caused by ultraviolet (UV) damage to the skin.
Learn more >
Skin Lesion Eyelid
Skin Lesion Lip
Actinic Keratosis
Actinic keratosis is a rough, scaly patch or bump on the skin. It’s also known as a solar keratosis. Actinic keratoses are very common, and many people have them. They are caused by ultraviolet (UV) damage to the skin.
Learn more >
Skin Lesion Nose
Kaposi Sarcoma: Introduction
In Kaposi sarcoma (KS), cancer develops from the cells that line lymph or blood vessels. KS is linked to infection with human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8), also known as the Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpes virus (KSHV). This virus can cause certain types of cells to grow out of control, which might lead to cancer.
Learn more >
Skin Resurfacing
Treating Aged or Sun-Damaged Skin
No one can avoid the natural process of aging, as the skin thins and lines and wrinkles appear. Moles, scars, and birthmarks also tend to change as we age. In addition, sun damage over the course of a lifetime worsens the aging skin. Sometimes advanced signs of aging and sun damage require invasive dermatology procedures.
Learn more >
Tattoo Removal
Laser Surgery for Lesions and Skin Conditions
There are many different types of lesions and skin conditions that can be treated with laser surgery. These include birthmarks, which are skin abnormalities present at birth. Your healthcare provider will decide if you are a candidate for the particular surgery.
Learn more >
Wound Care
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy
Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is a type of therapy to help wounds heal. It's also known as wound VAC. During the treatment, a device decreases air pressure on the wound. This can help the wound heal more quickly.
Learn more >
Research Interests
Basic Science:
Regenerative Medicine
Tissue Engineering
Bone Regeneration
Biomaterials
Nerve Regeneration
Stem Cell Therapies
Burn Wound Reconstruction
Adipose Derived Stem Cells
Transplantation
Clinical:
Comparison of Cleft Lip and Palate Techniques
Outcomes in Cranioplasty
Orthognathic Surgery
Radiology in Craniofacial Surgery
Psychosocial Development in Children with Facial Deformities
In The News
Balancing work, philanthropy, and family:
Balancing Act
Operation Mend:
Operation Mend Helps Wounded Warrior
UCLA Face Transplantation Program:
UCLA launches first face transplantation program in western U.S.
UCLA Debuts Face Transplantation Program
UCLA seeking Wounded Warriors with severe facial injuries for clinical trial
Face Transplant UCLA: New Program Replaces Devastated Faces
Global Health:
Making a World of Difference
perreault-magazine.com
UCLA professor, plastic surgeon Reza Jarrahy travels to Guatemala as part of Mayan Families organization to treat congenital deformities
UCLA expands student opportunities with global health programs
Surgeon, anthropologist lead effort to bridge Western health care, indigenous cultures
Culture Matters, Especially in Medicine
Surgeons and anthropologists collaborate to deliver health care in Central America
"At The Crossroads" Symposia Series Continues to Inspire
Volunteerism and Community Service:
Volunteer Day brings new students together
6,000 new UCLA students volunteer their time around Los Angeles
Phrenic Nerve Surgery:
UCLA Is Only West Coast Medical Center to Offer Pioneering Surgery for Phrenic Nerve Damage
Social Media in Medicine:
Half of plastic surgeons used social media in practice
Many plastic surgeons view social media as important tool for promoting their practice
Global Health Podcasts:
international.ucla.edu/lai/article/131983
international.ucla.edu/lai/article/132197
international.ucla.edu/lai/article/131088
Note: News website links may expire without notice.
Awards
2018 Los Angeles Magazine Top Doctors
Professional Honors:
UCLA Health Teaching Humanism Award, 2016
Invited Faculty, ASMS Basic Maxillofacial Techniques Course, 2016
Invited Faculty, Global Pediatric Facial Surgery Summit. Austin Texas, 2015
Invited Faculty, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Pre-Conference Symposium, 2015
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Task Force on Diversity, 2015
Course Instructor, American Society of Plastic Surgeons 84th Annual Meeting, 2015
Session Moderator, American Society of Plastic Surgeons 84th Annual Meeting, 2015
Instructor, ASMS International Basic Course, Romanian Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons, Iasi, Romania, 2015
Session Moderator, 60th Annual Plastic Surgery Research Council Meeting, 2015
Member, American Society of Plastic Surgeons Craniomaxillofacial/Head and Neck Subcommittee, 2015
Scientific Program Committee, American Society of Plastic Surgeons 84th Annual Meeting, 2015
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Scientific Program Committee, 2015
Scientific Program Committee, 60th Annual Plastic Surgery Research Council Meeting, 2015
Invited Reviewer, Biochemical Sciences, 2014-present
Scientific Program Committee, American Society of Plastic Surgeons 83rd Annual Meeting, 2014
Invited Faculty, ASCFS/ASMS Basic Techniques in Craniofacial Surgery Course, 2014
Invited Reviewer, Journal of Craniofacial Surgery, 2013-present
Session Moderator, 59th Annual Plastic Surgery Research Council Meeting, 2014
Scientific Program Committee, 59th Annual Plastic Surgery Research Council Meeting, 2014
Invited Reviewer, Plastic Surgery Review: A Study Guide for In-Service and Board Exams, Thieme, 2014
Chair and Host, 9th Biennial Henry K. Kawamoto Jr. Lectureship in Craniofacial Surgery, 2014
Co-Chair and Local Host, ASMS Basic Maxillofacial Principles and Techniques Winter Course, 2014
Co-Chair and Moderator, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Pre-Conference Symposium, 2013
Member, ASPS Convention Committee, Craniomaxillofacial Subcommittee, 2013
Session Abstract Rater, American Society of 82nd Plastic Surgeons Annual Meeting, 2013
Scientific Panel Moderator, American Society of 82nd Plastic Surgeons Annual Meeting, 2013
Member, Planning Committee, American Society of 82nd Plastic Surgeons Annual Meeting, 2013
Co-Director, UCLA Latin American Institute Working Group Symposium Series, 2013
Scientific Panel Moderator, Plastic Surgery Research Council Annual Meeting, 2013
Invited Reviewer, Tissue Engineering Part A, 2012-present
Chair, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Membership Committee, 2012-2015
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Ad Hoc Committee on Young MF Surgeons, 2012-2014
Vice President of Communications, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons, 2012-2014
Chair, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Best Papers Committee, 2012-2014
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Development Committee, 2012-2013
Member, Buildings and Grounds Committee, UCLA Lab School Advisory Board, 2012-2013
Co-Chair, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Scientific Program Committee, 2012-2013
Editor, Pediatrics Module, Plastic Surgery Hyperguide, 2011–2012
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Education Committee, 2011-2015
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Maxillofacial News Committee, 2011-2013
Member, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Website Committee, 2011-2013
Chair, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Video Sub-Committee, 2011-2012
Delegate, Coalition of California Cleft and Craniofacial Teams, 2011
American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons CRANIO Fellowship, 2011
Founding Member and Co-Chair, Outreach Committee, UCLA Lab School Advisory Board, 2010-2013
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation Scientific Essay Contest, Third Place Award, 2010
Co-Chair and Local Host, American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Basic Course, UCLA, February 2010
Advisor, College of Applied Anatomy, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 2009-present
Advisory Board, UCLA Lab School, Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, 2009-2014
UCLA Graduate School of Education and Information Studies Research Review Committee, 2009
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation Scientific Essay Contest, Second Place Award, 2009
Invited reviewer, Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, 2007-present
American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Research Award, 2004
American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Research Award, 2004
UCLA Division of Plastic Surgery Resident Research Award, 2004
Plastic Surgery Research Council Baronio Scholar, 2004
UCSD Department of Surgery Chairman’s Award, 2003
UCSD Department of Surgery Chief Resident Teaching Award, 2003
Association for Academic Surgery Student Research Award, 1996
Asians in Medicine Community Service Award, 1995
Phi Delta Theta Educational Foundation Community Service Award, 1992
Research Awards:
Plastic Surgery Foundation National Endowment for Plastic Surgery Award. Novel osteogenic oxysterol for cranial bone regeneration. Principal Investigator. 2014
UCLA Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI) Catalyst Grant: Pediatrics, Surgery, and Anthropology in Brazil. Co-Principal Investigator. 2014.
UCLA Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI) Catalyst Grant: Pediatrics, Surgery, and Anthropology in Brazil. Co-Principal Investigator. 2014.
UCLA Latin American Institute Working Group Grant: Surgery and Culture in Latin America. Co-principal Investigator, 2013.
American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons/Maxillofacial Surgery Foundation Research Grant Award. Large- Scale Bone Regeneration Using a Novel Chemotactic Regenerative Scaffold. Principal Investigator. 2013.
Komedyplast Craniofacial Research Grant, American Society of Craniofacial Surgery. A novel osteogenic agent, Oxy133, promotes bone regeneration. Principal Investigator. 2013.
UCLA Latin American Institute Working Group Grant: Co-principal Investigator, 2013.
Cleft Palate Foundation Cleft/Craniofacial Anomalies Research Grant: A novel osteogenic oxysterol for cranial bone regeneration. Principal Investigator. 2013.
UCLA Transdisciplinary Seed Grant (UCLA CTSI UL1TR000124): Facing the Future: Changing Paradigms in Global Health Delivery. Co-Principal Investigator. 2013.
UCLA Faculty Research Grant: Bone regeneration by a chemotactic "smart scaffold:" in vivo calvarial bone defect model. Principal Investigator. 2013.
Annenberg Foundation Award for Craniofacial Surgery and Research, unrestricted educational grant. 2013.
UCLA Latin American Institute Working Group Grant: Surgery and Culture in Latin America. Co-principal Investigator, 2012.
ASMS/MSF Research Grant Award: Development of a "Smart Scaffold" to maintain chemotactic effects for mesenchymal stem cells. Principal Investigator. 2011
UCLA Faculty Research Grant: Developing a "smart scaffold" for use in bone tissue engineering. Principal Investigator. 2011.
Plastic Surgery Foundation Pilot Research Grant: Fabrication of a chemotactic smart scaffold for bone regeneration. Principal Investigator. 2011.
UCLA Transdisciplinary Seed Grant: Empowerment through art: improving self-esteem in children with congenital facial malformations through self-Produced multimedia storytelling. Co-Principal Investigator. 2011.
Annenberg Foundation Award for Craniofacial Surgery and Research: Healing of mandibular osteoradionecrosis defects using bone tissue engineering approaches. Principal Investigator. 2011.
Annenberg Foundation Award for Craniofacial Surgery and Research: The use of a novel cholesterol-based osteogenic growth factor in bone regeneration. Principal Investigator. 2010.
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation Research Fellowship Grant Award: Osteogenic Potential of Oxysterols in Tissue Engineering. Principal Investigator. 2009.
Osteoprogenitor Cell Lines. Principal Investigator. 2004.
American Society of Maxillofacial Surgeons Research Award: The Impact of Three-Dimensional Culture upon the Contracts Differentiation of Primary
Reza Jarrahy, MD click here to update your profile
Back to search
Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Our Videos on YouTube Follow us on Instagram Connect with Us on LinkedIn Follow us on Pinterest Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Sharecare
UCLA Health
Find a Doctor
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
UCLA Campus
Directory
Newsroom
Subscribe
Patient Stories
Giving
Careers
Volunteer
International Services
Privacy Practices
Nondiscrimination
Billing
Health Plans
Emergency
Report Broken Links
Terms of Use
1-800-UCLA-MD1
Maps & Directions
Contact Us
Your Feedback
Get Social
Sitemap
Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Our Videos on YouTube Follow us on Instagram Connect with Us on LinkedIn Follow us on Pinterest Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Sharecare
×
Sign in to myUCLAhealth