L-Theanine Promotes Relaxation and Helps Reduce Stress Naturally | American Nutrition
American Nutrition
Dedicated to bringing you high quality supplements at the lowest prices guaranteed
« Natural Anti-inflammatories/Painkillers for Arthritis & Joint Pain
SUPER WEEKEND SALE! through March 1st, 2010 »
L-Theanine Promotes Relaxation and Helps Reduce Stress Naturally
L-Theanine is a unique amino acid found in the tea plant.
L-Theanine is a non-protein amino acid which takes up 50% of the total free Amino Acids in the green tea plant. L-Theanine is famous for its ability to increase Alpha Waves (associated with a feeling of calm and mental alertness).
Theanine is related to glutamine, and can cross the blood-brain barrier. Because it can enter the brain, theanine has psychoactive properties. Theanine has been shown to reduce mental and physical stress, may produce feelings of relaxation and improves cognition, and mood.
L-Theanine may help relieve stress by inducing a relaxing effect without drowsiness. L-theanine as been shown to promote the generation of alpha-brain waves, an index of relaxation. It may also boost natural resistance to microbial infections and perhaps even tumors. Researchers suggest further isolating and refining L-theanine from tea to use it as a drug to boost the infection defense of the body.
Theanine is speculated to produce these effects by increasing the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) production. Theanine increases brain serotonin, dopamine, GABA levels and has micromolar affinities for AMPA, Kainate and NMDA receptors.
L-Theanine may also help the body’s immune response to infection by boosting the disease-fighting capacity of gamma delta T cells.
Click here to Learn More about L-Theanine!
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Explore posts in the same categories: Better Sleep Month, Brain Supplements, depression, Green Supplements, Mental Wellness, Mood Stabilization, Natural Sleep Aids, Sleep and Relaxation, Stress Relief
This entry was posted on February 24, 2010 at 1:50 pm and is filed under Better Sleep Month, Brain Supplements, depression, Green Supplements, Mental Wellness, Mood Stabilization, Natural Sleep Aids, Sleep and Relaxation, Stress Relief. You can subscribe via RSS 2.0 feed to this post's comments.
Tags: amino acid, amino acid supplement, L-Theanine, natural stress reducer, natural stress relief, sleep supplement, Theanine
You can comment below, or link to this permanent URL from your own site.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: