How to Clear Acne Scars Fast: Find Methods No One Gave You Before
Follow Us:
Share some beauty tips and stunning makeup ideas!
How to Clear Acne Scars Fast: Find Methods No One Gave You Before
Acne no doubt causes pain, but what is even more painful are the scars that remain after the skin condition heals. Treatments that aim to clear acne scars fast are laser therapy, chemical peeling, and dermabrasion.
Nicks J
Last Updated: Dec 09, 2017
Recent reports suggest that people with acne scars on the face tend to develop low esteem and lose self-confidence. These psychological barriers can have an adverse impact on their lives. However, the good news is that acne scar removal is possible without causing any harm to the surrounding skin tissue. There are ample treatment options when it comes to acne scar removal in less time.
Methods to Clear Acne Scars
With the advancement in science, removing acne scars is no big deal. Today, dermatologists are using methods that are not only safe, but quite effective to restore the lost beauty of the skin. Some of these popular methods are listed below:
Ointments or Creams
There are quite a few pharmaceutical companies that have developed acne scar creams. Using these ointments and creams is as simple as applying it on the affected part as instructed on the label of the product. These have proven to be quite effective in eliminating mild and light acne scars.
Dermabrasion
This is a surgical procedure in which the doctors remove the outer layer as well as the inner layer of the skin in a systematic manner, so that innermost layers of the skin are not damaged. This treatment uses motor driven burrs to peel off the skin and has brought smiles to many acne scar sufferers. Basically, it removes the damaged dermis that is responsible for causing scars. Removing superficial skin exposes healthy skin cells that later form a smooth skin over a period of time.
Chemical Peels
This type of treatment involves peeling off the skin using chemicals. In this method, mild organic acids, that do not harm the skin are used. Chemical solutions that are commonly used to get a clear complexion are salicylic or glycolic acid. Before applying any of these solutions, the face should be washed properly. Once applied, it should be allowed to remain there for several minutes. The patient may experience mild burning sensation that usually lasts for 10-15 minutes.
Laser Therapy
When all treatment options fail to clear acne scars fast, laser treatment is the last resort to clear these blemishes. This advanced technique has become quite popular in recent years as it makes the skin free from acne scars within a short time. Although laser therapy is expensive, success is guaranteed. Severe acne leaves deep scars and may require more than one session of laser scarring treatment.
Clear Acne Scars Naturally
Financial constraints may not allow people to opt for laser treatments. However, there is no need to worry as acne scars can also be removed naturally. Some of the best remedies that help to clear acne scars at home are given below:
Tea Tree Oil
This natural oil is also very effective to clear acne scars fast but make sure to purchase pure tea tree oil from a reliable source. This approach, that involves applying 2-3 drops of tea tree oil on the scar, has proven beneficial to clear the scars.
Honey
Usage of honey is yet another way to erase those unsightly marks. However, before you use this natural remedy, exfoliating the skin is very important.Use of exfoliating brush removes the dead cells that have accumulated on the scars.
After you gently exfoliate the affected area for around 2-3 minutes, take honey and spread it on the skin showing scars and let it remain for 20 minutes. Then rinse your face using warm water and natural soap. Follow this for a month to get a healthy glowing skin.
Vitamin E
Vitamin E tops the list of nutrients when it comes to overall well-being of the skin. It protects the skin from the ravaging effects of free radicals. So, it's no surprising that topical use of this lotion can work wonders to eliminate acne scars. Use of this lotion twice daily that does not contain any mineral oil can lead to substantial reduction of acne scars. Instead of lotion, one may use vitamin E oil and then leave it on the face for 15 minutes and wash the it with a mild cleanser.
Pureed Fruit
Pureed fruits like apple and pineapple are full of ascorbic acid, an important ingredient of many skin care products. Ascorbic acid has shown to be beneficial in lightening acne scars and improving the look of the skin. Gently rub the puree of pineapple or apple on the face. Allow it to settle and do not remove it for 15 minutes. You can then wash it off with warm water.
Lemon Juice
Daily application of fresh lemon juice (3-4 drops) on the acne scars can also help to clear this skin problem as early as possible. For severe acne scars, application of lemon juice may only lighten the scar, and might not remove it entirely.
Baking Soda
Make a paste by mixing baking soda with water. Now, apply it on the face, focusing more on areas of the skin that show acne scars. After massaging the paste for a minute or two, wash the face thoroughly with clean water. Baking soda has the ability to eliminate these skin imperfections within a short span of time.
People with acne scars also need to stay away from certain foods. There are food items that are known to trigger acne. Foods high in sugar as well as processed foods can cause acne. These foods need to be excluded from the diet. Drinking plenty of water (8-10 glasses) and avoiding soft drinks such as coke, are some of the factors that can assist to get rid of acne scars at the earliest.
Share This
Does Vitamin E Help Heal Acne Scars?
Home Remedies for Acne Scars
Bleaching Cream for Acne Scars
Lemon Juice for Acne Scars
Can You Get Rid of Acne Scars Overnight?
Plastic Surgery for Acne Scars
Sandalwood Paste for Acne Scars
How to Remove Acne Scars from the Face
Laser Surgery for Acne
How Does Chyawanprash Help Get Rid of Wrinkles?
Know How Chyawanprash Benefits Your Skin
Different Types of Noses
Meaning of Moles on the Face
History of Cosmetology
Vitamin E Oil for Face
Beauty Tips for Girls
Makeup Brushes and Their Uses
How to Make Your Own Lipstick
Lipstick Colors for Fair Skin
Eyeliner for Blue Eyes
Eye Makeup Tips
Astringent Vs. Toner
Eyeliner Styles
How to Do Smokey Eyes
Eyeshadow Ideas
What Does Your Lipstick Shape Say About Your Personality?
Spray Tanning Tips
Gothic Makeup Ideas
Makeup Tips for Women Over 50
Castor Oil for Skin Care
How to Become Beautiful
Natural Makeup Tips for Black Women
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service