How To Heal Ovarian Cysts | Women's Health
How To » Health & Fitness » Health Care & Wellness » General Health Care » Healing an Ovarian Cyst: Ovarian Cyst Removal and Treatment
Healing an Ovarian Cyst: Ovarian Cyst Removal and Treatment
Get Tips for Preventing a Ruptured Ovarian Cyst
By Mike Tattersall
Ovarian cysts are fluid-filled sacs that develop on the ovary. About 95 percent of ovarian cysts are benign, so physicians do not treat them unless they become very large or cause other problems. Of course, follow your doctor's treatment plan, especially if your cyst is malignant or is growing quickly, as removal may be needed. If that's the case, laparoscopic surgery may be required. However, there are also many home remedies, especially for controlling the pain caused by them. You want to be especially careful to prevent a ruptured cyst from happening as well. These tips should help.
Consider a natural remedy. There are many natural remedies that can help heal your ovarian cyst that you can try on your own. One, for example, contains 1 teaspoon each of tinctures of burdock root, vitex berries, red raspberry leaves, and motherwort leaves. Combine the ingredients, and take half a dropper's worth once or twice a day. You can also make a tea of vitex leaves, and many health food stores sell vitex pills as well. Chamomile tea can also help soothe your muscles and reduce pain. Other natural remedies for removing pain can be found in specialty health food stores.
Take pain relievers. Tylenol, ibuprofen, and other anti-inflammatory over-the-counter medications can help reduce pelvic pain associated with ovarian cysts. Prescription medications can help reduce severe pain.
Apply warmth. A warm bath, or a heating pad or hot water bottle applied to the pelvic region can be effective ways to relax your muscles and stimulate circulation and healing. The warmth can be a great way to relieve the pain.
Change your diet. Many women find that forgoing caffeine and alcohol and reducing sugar intake can help heal their cyst. In addition, increasing your vitamin A and B intake can help, as can eating carotenoids such as carrots, tomatoes, and salads.
Try hormonal treatments as ovarian cyst treatments. The hormones found in oral contraceptive pills can help prevent the formation of ovarian cysts, and some research has shown that they may also shrink existing cysts. Of course, discuss this option with your doctor before starting birth control pills, as they are not right for all women.
Follow up frequently with your doctor. To make sure that the cyst does not begin growing, be sure to visit your doctor frequently for a checkup. Many cysts will go away after a couple of months, but others remain or even grow larger. Many women who get one cyst will have more later. Of course, if it is malignant, your doctor will prescribe surgery to remove it. If this is the case, you'll want to research cyst removal before the surgery.
Avoid strenuous activity. Strenuous activity can cause the cyst to rupture or twist, which will require medical treatment. That's why it's so important to prevent a ruptured cyst from occurring. It is important to avoid activities that can turn a small and benign cyst into a more serious condition.
These tips should help you understand this aspect of women's health. Ovarian cysts can be quite painful, but there are ways to manage this pain at home. However, be sure to consult your doctor before changing your medications.
Share this article!
Twitter Facebook Stumble
Follow us!
Twitter Facebook
Find more helpful articles:
Home
Automotive
Business
Careers
Computers & Internet
Education
Electronics
Family & Relationships
Fashion & Personal Care
Finance & Real Estate
Food & Drink
Health & Fitness
Alternative Health
Exercise & Nutrition
Health Care & Wellness
Babies‘ & Children‘s Health
Dental
Elective Health Care
General Health Care
Insurance, Medicare & Medicaid
Men‘s Health
Seniors‘ Health
Women‘s Health
Illness & Treatment
Hobbies
Holidays
Home & Garden
Pets & Animals
Religion & Spirituality
Sports & Recreation
Travel
About Contact Terms & Privacy
How To Do Things. Copyright Howtodothings.com © 2016, all rights reserved.