Tick Season Starts Early: How to Protect Yourself and Your Pet - MedicineNet
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/infectious disease center/ infectious disease a-z list/ tick season starts early: how to protect yourself and your pet article
Tick Season Starts Early: How to Protect Yourself and Your Pet
Warm Weather Means Early Start for Tick Season; Expert Advice on Protecting Yourself and Your Pet
By Matt McMillen
WebMD Health News
Latest Infectious Disease News
Butterball Ground Turkey Recalled
Ebola Survivors Continue to Suffer After Recovery
Health Tip: Reducing Risk of Salmonella
Health Tip: Treating Head Lice Safely
Judge Bans 50 Unvaccinated Students From School
Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters!
Reviewed by Laura J. Martin, MD
The pleasant temperatures of this past winter may be giving way to unpleasant consequences, as the warmer weather has encouraged the early emergence of ticks. That means greater chances of contracting Lyme disease, particularly in the Northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and North-Central U.S., where it's spread by Ixodes scapularis, often called deer tick or blacklegged tick. (Western blacklegged ticks, Ixodes pacificus, spread the disease in California and the Pacific Northwest.) Ticks can also transmit other diseases such as anaplasmosis, babesiosis, ehrlichiosis, and Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
WebMD talked with Todd Barton, MD, an infectious diseases specialist and Lyme disease expert at the University of Pennsylvania, about the possible uptick in health risks from these bloodsuckers and how you can protect yourself.
What does the warm weather mean for the tick threat?
"One would expect to see them earlier this year, but in theory there won't be more ticks than usual," Barton says. "However, given the warm weather, people will be outdoors more frequently and therefore more often exposed to ticks, and the number of opportunities for infection is more important than the number of ticks."
How will I know if I have been bitten by a tick?
"Ticks have some sort of anesthetic in their spit, so you are not going to feel it when it bites you," Barton says. "That means you have to check yourself thoroughly. They can be hard to spot. Nymphs, which are the size of a poppy seed, spread the most infection to humans because they are harder to spot and less picky about what they eat -- they are teenagers, desperate and hungry -- while larger adult ticks tend to favor smaller mammals."
What should I do if I find a tick on me?
"First, it's not a medical emergency, so you don't need to dial 911," Barton says. "In most cases, ticks take an hour or so to crawl somewhere dark and warm -- the back of your knee, your groin, the crack of your butt -- and start feeding. If it hasn't settled in to feed, you can brush it off. If it is already feeding, it takes more than a day to pass along any infection it might be carrying."
"To remove it, use fine-tipped tweezers to grasp the tick close to the skin and pull up with even pressure without twisting or jerking the tick. Don't use your fingers -- they are crude tools, and they can squish the tick, which can then squirt their guts, which is what carries infection, into you. If some of the tick pieces get left behind, that's OK. You will do more harm than good to dig into your skin to look for leftovers. Your body will heal fine even if a little bit of the tick is left in you."
"Don't use Vaseline, matches, or alcohol -- none of these things work or help."
I've removed the tick that was feeding on me. What should I do now?
"The overall risk of getting Lyme disease from a feeding tick is 3.2%, so your chances of getting sick are pretty low," Barton says. "But you won't be able to tell from the tick if it is infected. If it has had a chance to feed on you, it's important to check with your doctor. The bacteria is extremely hard to grow in a lab, so instead of looking for the germ, we look at the body's response. If a red blotch that's not accompanied by fever or itching develops in the area where you were bitten -- usually after seven to 10 days -- we treat with antibiotics."
My dog likes to join me in the great outdoors. What should I do if I find a tick on her?
"Pets such as dogs are hard to check, but if there's a tick on your dog, it won't get hungry again soon once it has fed. It won't be looking to hop onto you. Removal for pets is the same as for people," Barton says.
What can be done to protect myself from ticks?
"You can best prevent exposure by not going outside, but that's not a good idea -- you should enjoy yourself," Barton says. "And while tucking long pants into your socks can keep ticks off your legs, in hot areas that is not very comfortable. I recommend using a DEET-based insect repellent to spray a ring around your thighs. This creates a barrier that will keep ticks from crawling up into your groin or butt crack, areas that are hard to search for ticks and where we find as many as 50% of feeding ticks."
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR NEXT NEWS ARTICLE
SOURCES: Todd Barton, MD, infectious disease specialist, University of Pennsylvania, Pa. CDC: "Ticks." CDC: "Lyme Disease." CDC: "Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever."
©2012 WebMD, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Related Article
Bacterial Infections 101: Types, Symptoms, and Treatments
Get more information on bacterial skin infections, which bacteria cause food poisoning, sexually transmitted bacteria, and more. Explore the most common bacterial infections.
Read more: Bacterial Infections 101: Types, Symptoms, and Treatments
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth