Anemia in Pregnancy: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Pregnancy Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Message Board
Find an Ob-Gyn
Health and Pregnancy Guide
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
Labor and Delivery
Pregnancy Complications
Related to Pregnancy
Gestational Diabetes
Labor and Delivery
Multiples and Twins
Newborns
Ovulation Calculator
Pregnancy Calendar
Pre-Pregnancy
Pregnancy Visual Timeline
Pregnancy Milestones
More Related Topics
Pregnancy
Guide
Want to Get Pregnant? Read This First.
Anemia in Pregnancy
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Types of Anemia During Pregnancy
Risk Factors for Anemia in Pregnancy
Symptoms of Anemia During Pregnancy
Risks of Anemia in Pregnancy
Tests for Anemia
Treatment for Anemia
Preventing Anemia
When you're pregnant, you may develop anemia. When you have anemia, your blood doesn't have enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen to your tissues and to your baby.
During pregnancy, your body produces more blood to support the growth of your baby. If you're not getting enough iron or certain other nutrients, your body might not be able to produce the amount of red blood cells it needs to make this additional blood.
It's normal to have mild anemia when you are pregnant. But you may have more severe anemia from low iron or vitamin levels or from other reasons.
Anemia can leave you feeling tired and weak. If it is severe but goes untreated, it can increase your risk of serious complications like preterm delivery.
Here's what you need to know about the causes, symptoms, and treatment of anemia during pregnancy.
Types of Anemia During Pregnancy
Several types of anemia can develop during pregnancy. These include:
Iron-deficiency anemia
Folate-deficiency anemia
Vitamin B12 deficiency
Here's why these types of anemia may develop:
Iron-deficiency anemia. This type of anemia occurs when the body doesn't have enough iron to produce adequate amounts of hemoglobin. That's a protein in red blood cells. It carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body.
In iron-deficiency anemia, the blood cannot carry enough oxygen to tissues throughout the body.
Iron deficiency is the most common cause of anemia in pregnancy.
Folate-deficiency anemia. Folate is the vitamin found naturally in certain foods like green leafy vegetables A type of B vitamin, the body needs folate to produce new cells, including healthy red blood cells.
During pregnancy, women need extra folate. But sometimes they don't get enough from their diet. When that happens, the body can't make enough normal red blood cells to transport oxygen to tissues throughout the body. Man made supplements of folate are called folic acid.
Folate deficiency can directly contribute to certain types of birth defects, such as neural tube abnormalities (spina bifida) and low birth weight.
Vitamin B12 deficiency. The body needs vitamin B12 to form healthy red blood cells. When a pregnant woman doesn't get enough vitamin B12 from her diet, her body can't produce enough healthy red blood cells. Women who don't eat meat, poultry, dairy products, and eggs have a greater risk of developing vitamin B12 deficiency, which may contribute to birth defects, such as neural tube abnormalities, and could lead to preterm labor.
Blood loss during and after delivery can also cause anemia.
Continued
Risk Factors for Anemia in Pregnancy
All pregnant women are at risk for becoming anemic. That's because they need more iron and folic acid than usual. But the risk is higher if you:
Are pregnant with multiples (more than one child)
Have had two pregnancies close together
Vomit a lot because of morning sickness
Are a pregnant teenager
Don't eat enough foods that are rich in iron
Had anemia before you became pregnant
Symptoms of Anemia During Pregnancy
The most common symptoms of anemia during pregnancy are:
Pale skin, lips, and nails
Feeling tired or weak
Dizziness
Shortness of breath
Rapid heartbeat
Trouble concentrating
In the early stages of anemia, you may not have obvious symptoms. And many of the symptoms are ones that you might have while pregnant even if you're not anemic. So be sure to get routine blood tests to check for anemia at your prenatal appointments.
Risks of Anemia in Pregnancy
Severe or untreated iron-deficiency anemia during pregnancy can increase your risk of having:
A preterm or low-birth-weight baby
A blood transfusion (if you lose a significant amount of blood during delivery)
Postpartum depression
A baby with anemia
A child with developmental delays
Untreated folate deficiency can increase your risk of having a:
Preterm or low-birth-weight baby
Baby with a serious birth defect of the spine or brain (neural tube defects)
Untreated vitamin B12 deficiency can also raise your risk of having a baby with neural tube defects.
Tests for Anemia
During your first prenatal appointment, you'll get a blood test so your doctor can check whether you have anemia. Blood tests typically include:
Hemoglobin test. It measures the amount of hemoglobin -- an iron-rich protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to tissues in the body.
Hematocrit test. It measures the percentage of red blood cells in a sample of blood.
If you have lower than normal levels of hemoglobin or hematocrit, you may have iron-deficiency anemia. Your doctor may check other blood tests to determine if you have iron deficiency or another cause for your anemia.
Even if you don't have anemia at the beginning of your pregnancy, your doctor will most likely recommend that you get another blood test to check for anemia in your second or third trimester.
Continued
Treatment for Anemia
If you are anemic during your pregnancy, you may need to start taking an iron supplement and/or folic acid supplement in addition to your prenatal vitamins. Your doctor may also suggest that you add more foods that are high in iron and folic acid to your diet.
In addition, you'll be asked to return for another blood test after a specific period of time so your doctor can check that your hemoglobin and hematocrit levels are improving.
To treat vitamin B12 deficiency, your doctor may recommend that you take a vitamin B12 supplement.
The doctor may also recommend that you include more animal foods in your diet, such as:
meat
eggs
dairy products
Your OB may refer you to a hematologist, a doctor who specializes in anemia/ blood issues. The specialist may see you throughout the pregnancy and help your OB manage the anemia.
Preventing Anemia
To prevent anemia during pregnancy, make sure you get enough iron. Eat well-balanced meals and add more foods that are high in iron to your diet.
Aim for at least three servings a day of iron-rich foods, such as:
lean red meat, poultry, and fish
leafy, dark green vegetables (such as spinach, broccoli, and kale)
iron-enriched cereals and grains
beans, lentils, and tofu
nuts and seeds
eggs
Foods that are high in vitamin C can help your body absorb more iron. These include:
citrus fruits and juices
strawberries
kiwis
tomatoes
bell peppers
Try eating those foods at the same time that you eat iron-rich foods. For example, you could drink a glass of orange juice and eat an iron-fortified cereal for breakfast.
Also, choose foods that are high in folate to help prevent folate deficiency. These include:
leafy green vegetables
citrus fruits and juices
dried beans
breads and cereals fortified with folic acid
Follow your doctor's instructions for taking a prenatal vitamin that contains a sufficient amount of iron and folic acid.
Vegetarians and vegans should talk with their doctor about whether they should take a vitamin B12 supplement when they're pregnant and breastfeeding.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Traci C. Johnson, MD on June 02, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists: "Nutrition During Pregnancy."
American Society of Hematology: "Anemia & Pregnancy" and "Anemia."
American Academy of Family Physicians: "Anemia: Causes and Risk Factors."
National Institutes of Health: "Dietary Supplement Fact Sheet: Iron" and "Dietary Supplement Fact Sheet: Vitamin B12."
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health: "Anemia Fact Sheet;" "Anemia: Healthy Lifestyle Changes;" "Folic acid fact sheet" and "Pregnancy."
UCSF Medical Center: "Anemia and Pregnancy."
National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: "Who Is at Risk for Anemia?"
Cleveland Clinic: "Increasing Iron in Your Diet During Pregnancy," "Anemia."
The Merck Manual: "Anemia in Pregnancy," "Vitamin B12."
CDC: "Iron and Iron Deficiency," "Take 400 mcg of Folic Acid Today!"
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia: "Anemia in Pregnancy."
ACOG Practice Bulletin: "Anemia in Pregnancy."
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: "Eating Right During Pregnancy."
Harvard School of Public Health: "Vitamin B12 Deficiency: Causes and Symptoms."
University of Maryland Medical Center: "Anemia -- Risk Factors."
American Academy of Family Physicians: "Anemia: Complications."
Johns Hopkins Medicine: "Anemia of Folate Deficiency."
Molloy, A. Pediatrics, March 1, 2009.
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
Bleeding During Pregnancy
Health & Pregnancy Guide
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
Labor and Delivery
Pregnancy Complications
Top Picks
Am I in Labor?
Implantation Bleeding
Guide to Prenatal Tests
When Pregnancy Is a Surprise
Abdominal Separation
Pregnant With Allergies? Top Treatment Tips
further reading
Slideshow: Visual Guide to Anemia
Slideshow: Top Foods High in Iron
Rare Types of Anemia
Aplastic Anemia: What You Need to Know
Diamond-Blackfan Anemia: Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment
Fanconi Anemia: What is it and how is it treated?
What is sideroblastic anemia? How is it treated?
Anemia Topics
Today on WebMD
Your Pre-Pregnancy Checklist
Are you ready for baby?
Ovulation Calculator
Track your most fertile days.
Am I in Labor?
The signs to watch out for.
Inducing Labor
Are there ways to do it naturally?
Recommended for You
SLIDESHOW
See How Your Baby Grows Each Month
ARTICLE
Why Your Favorite Foods Gross You Out
SLIDESHOW
What You Should Know About Multiple Births
SLIDESHOW
Your Guide to a Beautiful Pregnancy
ARTICLE
7 Embarrassing Pregnancy Symptoms
QUIZ
Early Signs of Pregnancy
TOOL
Due Date Calculator
SLIDESHOW
12 Easy, Yummy Snacks for Pregnant Women
Tools & Resources
Can You Eat Peanuts?
What to Expect During Labor
Should I Eat My Placenta?
What Is Implantation Bleeding?
Flu Shots and Pregnancy
Ovulation Tool: Find Your Most Fertile Days
Subscribe to the Pregnancy & Child Development Newsletter.
Get essential updates about your growing baby and what to expect each week.
Sign Up
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.