How to Fix a Receding Hairline | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Skin Conditions
Hair Loss
How to Fix a Receding Hairline
Brenda Barron
About the Author:
Brenda Barron
Brenda Barron is a writer, editor and researcher based in Southern California. She has worked as a writer since 2004, with work appearing in online and print publications such as BabyZone, "Cat Fancy" and "ePregnancy." She holds a Bachelor of Arts in English literature from California State University, Long Beach.
View Full Profile
A receding hairline can occur for a number of reasons, including anything from stress to illness to male pattern baldness. The latter is one of the more common reasons, and for the most part, occurs due to heredity. While your hairline will still recede, there are some things you can do to reverse the damage and to fill in the areas where your hair has fallen out, such as using topical treatments or having surgery.
Step 1
Apply minoxidil to your scalp. Also known as Rogaine, this treatment helps stimulate hair growth and reverse a receding hairline. The treatment usually must be applied twice a day and massaged thoroughly into the scalp.
Step 2
Visit your doctor and obtain a prescription for a drug called Propecia. This drug lowers the amount of a certain hormone called DHT in your body, which can help to reverse hair loss. This oral drug is taken once a day and requires a few weeks before displaying results.
Step 3
Have hair transplanted onto your hairline. If topical creams and drugs don't encourage your hair to grow back, hair from the back of your scalp can be transplanted onto the top of your head.
Once this hair takes root, it will grow just like the rest of your hair, though the use of a topical like minoxidil is still recommended to prevent future hair loss.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia: Male Pattern Baldness
AskMen.com: Male Pattern Baldness
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Regrow Hair on a Receding Hairline
2
How to Use Rogaine on Eyebrows
3
Rogaine & Pregnancy
4
How to Reverse Traction Alopecia
5
How to Combat Hair Loss From Blood Pressure Medication
6
Can You Make Facial Hair Stop Growing?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.