First Aid for Burns | Tips for Parent
Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Miscellaneous
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Pregnancy & Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Health A to Z
Videos
Slideshows
Health News
Baby Names
Experts
QNA
Menu
Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Pregnancy & Parenting
Relationships
Health A to Z
Videos
हिंदी
✖
Health
parenting
Tips for Parent
First Aid for Burns
Tips for Parent By Bhadra Kamalasanan , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Jul 29, 2011
Quick Bites
If the burn is third degree or extensive, immediate medical attention is needed.
Do not apply ice on the burned area, especially if it has opened the skin.
Avoid breaking blisters formed as a result of burning to prevent infections.
If possible, raise the burnt area of the body above the heart's level.
Burns can be caused by dry heat (such as fire), wet heat (such as steam or hot liquids), radiation, friction, heated objects, the sun, electricity, or chemicals. Burns can be superficial (first or second degree) or deep (third degree). Symptoms include reddening of the skin, swelling, blistering and pain. In third degree burns, the underlying tissue such as muscle fascia and tendons are also damaged. If the burns are extensive or third degree burns, immediate medical care is needed. If the burn area is more than 3 inches in diameter, or the burn is on face, hands, feet or genitals, you should take your child immediately to a doctor.
First Aid for Burns
Minor burns (first-degree burns and second-degree burns) with an area less than 3 inches in diameter may be treated at home.
First aid for minor burn includes
Cool the burn: Soak the burn in cool water under a tap for about 10-15 minutes or until the pain decreases. If it is not possible to soak under a tap, immerse the burn in cold water or cool it with cold compresses. Do not apply ice on the burn.
Apply bandage: Protect the burned area, with a dry sterile gauze bandage. Cotton should not be used to cover the area as it can cause irritation. Apply the bandage loosely to avoid undue pressure on burned skin. Bandage on the burned area helps to reduce pain and protects blistered skin.
Analgesics: Give your child simple analgesics such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen or mefenamic acid. Aspirin should not be given to children or teenagers.
Most minor burns heal without any further treatment. Change the dressing everyday and be watchful for signs of infection, such as increased pain, redness, fever, swelling or oozing.
Don'ts
Don't apply ice on the burned area.
Don't apply butter or ointments to the burn.
Don't break blisters as it increases the risk of infection.
Don’t treat extensive or third-degree burn at home.
For any major burns take your child to the emergency room immediately. Until you reach the hospital follow these steps:
Don't take off any clothing sticking to the burn.
Don't soak severe burned areas in water or apply any ointment. Cover the burned surface with a sterile bandage or clean cloth.
Check for breathing, coughing or movement. If the child is not breathing or other signs of circulation are absent start cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
If possible, raise the burned body part or parts above the level of heart.
It is important to keep your cool and also ensure that your child feels better by trying to do all you can in your capacity till you reach the hospital for further medical help.
Read more articles on Medical & Safety Tips.
Written by: Bhadra Kamalasanan
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial team Jul 29, 2011
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Trending Topics
Burn care
first-aid tips for a burn
how to care for burnt skin
Related Article
10 First Date Dos and Donts
Razor Burns can be Painful and Unsightly; Know How to Treat them Effectively
Dealing with hearing loss
Baby Care Emergencies
7 Remedies to treat a bee sting instantly
Best Home Remedies for Burns
Trending Article
First Aid Care for Wounds Help You to Ditch Infections
7 First Date Tips for Guys to Charm your Date
Things to do when You are a Witness to a Road Accident
7 Remedies to treat a bee sting instantly
10 Signs of Attraction in the First Conversation
International nurses day celebrated with a difference
Loading...
Homeopathic First Aid Kits
Dealing with hearing loss
First Aid Kit at Work
Razor Burns can be Painful and Unsightly; Know How to Treat them Effectively
How to Choose a Hearing Aid
Awards and Recognition
Drivers of Digital 2018
Best Healthcare Website
Indian Content leadership Awards 2018
Best Content in a Healthcare/ Fitness Website
Global Digital Marketing Awards 2017
Best Digital Publication (Health/ Medical Industry)
Digipub Award 2017
Website of the Year (Lifestyle Infotainment) - Gold
Digixx 2019
Digital Marketing Excellence in Healthcare/Pharma – Gold Winner
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
Subscribe Our Newsletter
Creativity happenes everywhere.
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Copyright © 2019 MMI ONLINE LTD
Home
About us
Management
Contact us
Privacy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK