Magnesium for Migraines
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Magnesium
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
Magnesium for the treatment of migraine headaches: an introduction
Magnesium is a mineral that is important for many functions in the body, including the production of protein, management of blood sugar, regulation of blood pressure, and the normal function of muscles, nerves and the rhythm of the heart. It is also helps the cells produce energy and helps transport calcium and potassium ions across cell membranes.1
More than half of the body’s magnesium is stored in the bones. Most of the rest of the magnesium in the body is in the soft tissues, with less than 1% being present in the blood. Magnesium is normally secreted out of the body in the urine, with the kidneys filtering out what the body does not need.1
A deficiency (not enough) of magnesium has been associated with depression, interfering with the release of neurotransmitters (chemicals that communicate between the nerves and can influence mood), the aggregation of platelets, and the constriction of blood vessels. All of these processes are believed to be involved in migraine.2
As the the typical dose of magnesium used for migraine prevention exceeds the usual recommended amount, magnesium should be used with your doctor’s knowledge. Talk to your doctor about all medications, vitamins, and supplements you are taking.1
Food containing Magnesium
Magnesium is widely found in foods, including:
Green leafy vegetables
Legumes, like beans
Nuts
Whole grains
Seeds
Soy products
Bananas
Peanut butter
Avocados1
Magnesium to prevent migraine
One pilot study that evaluated 40 people with migraine found that during a migraine attack, 50% of them had low levels of magnesium in the brain. The intravenous (IV) administration of magnesium appeared to reduce the pain of the migraine in about 50% of these patients.2,3
Low magnesium levels may also be related to menstrual migraine and may have a deficiency of magnesium. Low levels of magnesium were more commonly found during menstrual migraine compared to migraine that occurred at other times.2
Studies on magnesium and migraine
Several small studies have found that oral supplementation of magnesium may reduce the frequency and severity of migraine attacks. In one study from 1996 of 81 people with migraine who were randomly assigned magnesium or a placebo, magnesium supplementation reduced the frequency of attacks by 41.6% compared to 15.8% in the placebo group.2,4 More recently, a 2008 study compared magnesium supplementation given to 30 patients compared to 10 patients given placebo. The study found that treatment with magnesium resulted in a significant decrease in migraine attack frequency and severity.2,5
Formulations of magnesium available
As a natural remedy, magnesium supplements are available to purchase without a prescription in a variety of forms, including:
Powder
Capsule
Liquid
Syrup
Tablet6
Magnesium injections are given only by or under the supervision of a healthcare professional.
Side effects and other precautions
The most common side effect of magnesium, especially high doses of the mineral, is diarrhea. Rarely, other side effects may occur, including:
Dizziness or fainting
Flushing (redness in the skin)
Difficulty breathing6
People with kidney disease or kidney failure have a higher risk of problems from high doses of magnesium because the kidneys no longer removes the extra magnesium. Too much magnesium can be toxic in the body and may cause serious or potentially fatal side effects, including muscle weakness, difficulty breathing, extreme low blood pressure, vomiting, and heart attack.1
Who should not take magnesium
People with kidney failure should not use magnesium supplements.
Several medications can have negative interactions with magnesium, including antibiotics, bisphosphonates, diuretics, and proton pump inhibitors. Talk to your doctor about all medications (over-the-counter and prescription), vitamins, and supplements you are taking.1
Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding, or who plan to become pregnant or breastfeed, should talk to their doctor about the safety of using natural remedies like magnesium.
Poll
Poll
As always, the best source for advice on treating migraine is your own migraine specialist. These descriptions of natural remedies are provided only for informational purposes. You should begin no medication or supplement without first checking with your physician.
Sign up for emails from Migraine.com:
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Written by: Emily Downward | Last review date: March 2019
View References
Magnesium. National Institutes of Health. Available at https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-HealthProfessional/. Accessed 5/8/18.
Sun-Edelstein C, Mauskop A. Alternative headache treatments: nutraceuticals, behavioral and physical treatments. Headache. 2011 Feb;51(3):469-483. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1526-4610.2011.01846.x.
Mauskop A, Altura BT, et al. Intravenous magnesium sulphate relieves migraine attacks in patients with low serum ionized magnesium levels: a pilot study. Clin Sci (Lond). 1995 Dec;89(6):633-6.
Peikert A, Wilimzig C, Kohne‐Volland R. Prophylaxis of migraine with oral magnesium: Results from a prospective, multi‐center, placebo‐controlled and double‐blind randomized study. Cephalalgia. 1996;16:257‐263.
Koseoglu E, Talashoglu A, Gonul AS, Kula M. The effects of magnesium prophylaxis in migraine without aura. Mag Res. 2008;21:101‐108.
Magnesium supplement. Mayo Clinic. Available at https://www.mayoclinic.org/drugs-supplements/magnesium-supplement-oral-route-parenteral-route/description/drg-20070730. Accessed 5/8/18.
Recommended Reading
Chronic Migraine: The Body’s Slow Leak
by Holly Baddour
The Differences Among Us: What I Wish Others With Migraine Knew
by Sarah Hackley
Migraine In America 2017: Migraine Frequencies – Exactly How Different Are They?
by Editorial Team
When Migraine Whispers Poison in Your Ear
by Anna Eidt
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.