Croup In Teens | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Allergies
Kids Allergies
Croup In Teens
Gail Sessoms
About the Author:
Gail Sessoms
Gail Sessoms, a grant writer and nonprofit consultant, writes about nonprofit, small business and personal finance issues. She volunteers as a court-appointed child advocate, has a background in social services and writes about issues important to families. Sessoms holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in liberal studies.
View Full Profile
Croup is a medical condition characterized by difficulty breathing and a distinctive cough caused by constricted airways. Croup, which usually affects children who are 5 years old or younger, results from inflammation and swelling of the larynx and trachea. The causes of croup are viruses, bacteria, measles, airway irritants and mild colds. Most children develop antibodies to the viruses that cause croup. However, children with poorly functioning immune systems are at increased risk for contracting the condition. Although rare, older children and teens also can contract croup.
Teens can get croup and experience the same symptoms as younger children. (Image: pojoslaw/iStock/Getty Images)
Croup
Viral croup, which is the most common type of croup, is caused by parainfluenza viruses, or HPIVs. The respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, and the adenovirus are less common causes of viral croup. Spasmodic croup often occurs after a mild cold, develops quickly without fever and tends to recur. Children with croup usually experience cold-like symptoms for a few days before developing the barking cough, hoarseness, wheezing and labored breathing. Croup usually lasts for a few days to one week. The condition can worsen and cause dangerous airway constriction, bronchitis or pneumonia. Severe cases can lead to bacterial infection of the upper airway and require hospitalization.
Older Children
Teens who have not developed antibodies to the viruses that cause croup and those whose immune systems are compromised can develop viral croup. Many children who are exposed to the viruses only develop cold symptoms, according to KidsHealth. Some children tend to develop croup each time they have a viral infection of the upper respiratory system. Teens can also contract croup through the less common causes of croup, such as bacterial infections of the upper respiratory system and exposure to airway irritants. Inhaled allergens and acid reflux can cause croup. Children with certain medical conditions, such as asthma and cerebral palsy, are more likely to develop severe croup symptoms.
Treatment
Croup is usually treated at home after conferring with the child's doctor. Steam or cool air vaporizers at night help relieve symptoms and ease breathing. Acetaminophen can help with pain and fever. Severe symptoms might require treatment by your child's doctor. Steroid medications or breathing treatments help reduce swelling and improve breathing. Your doctor might use antibiotic therapy to fight the infection. Hospitalization might be required if your child's breathing is severely compromised.
Precautions
Although croup is usually more severe in children under 1 year old, teens who have croup can experience discomfort, pain and worsening symptoms if croup is not treated. A child who has recurrent croup or an underlying condition that requires diagnosis and treatment should see a doctor. However, most croup cases are treated at home with a doctor's guidance. Immediate medical attention is required if your teen has severe breathing problems, red and swollen epiglottis, blue skin color, persistent fatigue, dehydration, drooling, or trouble swallowing.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Medline Plus: Croup
U.S. Centers for Disease Control: Human Parainfluenza Viruses
PharmQD: Croup
KidsHealth: Infections - Croup
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Night Coughing in Toddlers
2
What Are the Causes of Shortness of Breath in Children?
3
Causes of Kids' Breathing Problems
4
Croup and Coughing in a 4-Year-Old
5
A Hacking Cough in a Toddler
6
Shortness of Breath in Teens
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.