12 Bizarre Home Remedies That Really Work - SmartLivingEnvironment
Skip to content
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact
SmartLivingEnvironment
Living smart. Living healthy.
Home
Lifestyle
Health
Recipes
Beauty
Diet And Fitness
DIY
12 Bizarre Home Remedies That Really Work
September 8, 2017 admin Health Leave a comment
Of course, we all have a small home pharmacy, in which we keep different medications, painkillers, bandages, rubbing alcohol and similar things. But, did you know that some foods and other things from your home can make excellent natural remedies? Here we bring you a small list of home remedies that really work!
12 Home Remedies That Really Work
1. Remove Warts
Research shows that wrapping warts with duct tape helps eliminate them. Namely, the adhesive from the tape and the airtight environment have a toxic effect on the warts, and help destroy them. Isn’t this one of the most genius home remedies for warts?
Clean the area affected by warts. Cut a piece of duct tape and cover the area. After 3 days, replace the tape. Repeat for 2 consequential months, or until you get rid of the warts.
2. Ease Nausea
To ease nausea, you should drink ginger tea, or eat a few ginger candies. The active ingredients found in this root help break up intestinal gas and speed up the emptying of the stomach.
3. Beat Migraine And Headaches
Do you often struggle with migraine and headaches? Well, we have one of the best home remedies for this problem, and certainly, the most enjoyable one! It’s sex. Namely, some studies show that the increased levels of endorphins in the body help relieve the pain.
4. Keep Motion Sickness Under Control
Have you noticed that the secretion of saliva increases when you have a motion sickness? In a situation like this, lemon can help you keep the symptoms under control. This fruit contains tannins that dry out the mouth and limit the secretion of saliva, which in turn helps calm down the sensation of wooziness.
5. Treat Eczema
Eczema makes the skin more acidic, while baking soda helps balance the pH value, making it more alkaline. This in turn helps get rid of the dead, flaky skin and reduces the eczematic symptoms. Soak your body in a warm bath of baking soda for about 15 minutes, not more than 2 times a week.
6. Get Rid Of Foot Odor
Stinky feet can embarrass everyone. To help prevent this, you should clean them with rubbing alcohol. The alcohol’s antiseptic properties help kill the bad bacteria and fungi, and reduce sweating. All you need to do is soak a cotton ball in rubbing alcohol and wipe your feet with it.
7. Remove Calluses And Corns
Licorice contains substances with estrogenic effects, which can help soften the rough and hard skin of calluses and corns. Take a little bit of licorice root and grate it. Mix it with petroleum jelly, enough to get a thick paste. Apply the resulting paste on the affected areas of your feet.
8. Reduce Stress
Did you know that peppermint essential oil could help you reduce stress? According to a study, peppermint has soothing effects, reducing stress and anxiety by as much as 25%. Thus, if you feel stressed every morning due to heavy traffic while going to work, you should consider putting peppermint air freshener in your car. It can help you a lot!
9. Tinnitus Relief
You can ease the symptoms of tinnitus simply by playing water and nature sound in your bedroom. If you have this problem, consider downloading an App that mimics nature sounds.
10. Treat Cuticle Infections
White vinegar has powerful antibacterial properties, which can help you get rid of cuticle infections. Soak your fingers in a solution made of white vinegar and warm water in a 50:50 ratio, for 15 minutes a day. Repeat the treatment until the infection disappears.
11. Soothe Bug Bites
Raw potatoes have anti-inflammatory effects and can help soothe the redness and itching of bug bites. If you have a spider bite, take a potato slice and gently rub the bitten area. You can also attach the potato slice to the bitten area with a bandage and leave it for about 15 minutes.
12. Ease Menopause Symptoms
Yams are rich in vitamins A and C, as well as dietary fiber, and can help balance the disturbed hormones. By regulating the hormones, yams will make the life easier for every woman in menopause.
Reference:
18 Bizarre Home Remedies That Really Work
11 Bizarre Home Remedies Our Grandparents Used That Actually Work!
baking soda, bug bites, calluses, corns, cuticle, duct tape, eczema, foot odor, ginger, headache, home remedies, lemon, licorice, menopause, migraine, motion sickness, nature, nausea, peppermint, potato, rubbing alcohol, stress, tinnitus, warts, white vinegar, yams
Post navigation
Secret Keyboard Shortcuts That Can Make Your Life Easier, And Save You Up To 8 Working Days A Year!
Zodiac Signs With Low Libido
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Tags
acne antibiotics anxiety apple cider vinegar arthritis back pain bacteria baking soda brain cancer cholesterol cleaning coconut oil common colds deodorant depression diabetes diet digestion eggs essential oil exercise flu ginger hair heart heart attack herbs inflammation insomnia joint pain lemon lemon juice memory loss olive oil pain skin sleep stress teeth toothpaste vitamin C water weight loss white vinegar
Copyright ©2017. Smart Living Environment