YOGURT: The Top Nine Health Benefits | The Health Coach
The Health Coach
Education ~ Enlightenment ~ Empowerment
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Educational Organization
Health Coaching Philosophy
Health Coaching Services
YOGURT: The Top Nine Health Benefits
9 Health Benefits of Yogurt – Proven by Science (and 4 Delicious Recipes to Try at Home)
Jen Reviews
www.jenreviews.com
Yogurt is a pretty conventional item that most people have in their refrigerator at least some of the time. It’s a food that’s made by bacteria fermenting milk. Despite the unpleasant sounding process, yogurt is actually quite healthy – the bacteria present help your body digest food and produce enzymes necessary for proper metabolism.
Yogurt cultures – the type of bacteria that is used in the production of yogurt- are made by fermenting lactose. The bacteria produce lactic acid during the fermentation process, which reacts with the protein in milk. This reaction gives yogurt the texture and flavour that it is well-known for.
Yogurt is most commonly made with cow’s milk, since it’s available all over the world. It’s also possible to make yogurt from the milk of other animals, including camels, goats, and buffalo – to name a few. You can even make yogurt from human breast milk! That might sound gross, but it’s actually a very nutritious thing to feed a newborn child.
Yogurt is known for its high calcium content. Introducing your children to yogurt at a young age can help them develop strong bones and teeth that will last them throughout their adulthood.
Selecting yogurt for maximum nutrition
Yogurt comes in a number of varieties, depending the milk used to produce it, how it is processed, and how it’s packaged. For the healthiest yogurt, you’ll want to make sure that whatever type you choose to purchase is organic. This makes the food less likely to have been made from animals fed unhealthy food, and typically has a higher density of nutrients.
Grass-fed yogurt is the healthiest – a step ahead from typical organic yogurt. It’s made from the milk of grass-fed cows and doesn’t contain any byproducts that could result from the commercial grade animal feed that ows are fed in bulk production. Grass-fed yogurt has only emerged recently in American markets.
Grass-fed cows produce milk that makes for a healthier yogurt, containing more omega-3 fatty acids. Make sure you look for a label that states 100% Grass-fed, since laws in North America allow improper labeling, using terms like “pasture-raised” to pretend that their food is entirely grass-fed.
Non dairy yogurts are for vegans and vegetarians. They can be made from soy milk coconut milk, even almond milk. Almond yogurt is made from ground-up almonds and water, is low in calories, and infused with active cultures to make it probiotic like dairy yogurt.
Greek yogurt, which has become a huge hit in the last decade, now takes up almost half the entire yogurt market. Greek yogurt has a very high protein content with less sugar and carbs than yogurt made from normal cow’s milk. Greek yogurt doesn’t have any specific regulations to live up to, so make sure you check the label for its protein content and nutrients. As long as the two main ingredients are milk and active cultures, you’re good.
The main difference between Greek yogurt and others is that, during processing, the liquid whey is separated. This makes the yogurt thicker and provides a higher protein content.
Traditional, unstrained yogurt is typically thinner than other varieties. Since it’s unstrained, it has a higher amount of liquid than Greek or other types of yogurt. Unstrained yogurt is extra good for children – a lot don’t like the thickness of regular yogurt.
The significance of grass-fed yogurt
Most of the nutritional information and health studies in this article have been done on grass-fed yogurt. It’s becoming wildly popular, and consistently demonstrates a higher nutritional profile than other varieties of yogurt. There’s a ton of reasons that grass-fed yogurt is better for you than other types.
Grass fed cows have a higher amount and higher quality of fat in their bodies. This makes the milk that these cows produce a better source for healthy fats when making yogurt.
The bacteria used in the fermentation process take some of these fats and turn them into a substance known as conjugated linoleic acid. This compound is shown to lower the risk of lots of health issues – diseases, heart attacks, inflammation, and high blood sugar – to name a few. Regular varieties of low-fat yogurts don’t offer the same amount of CLA – they are still great for you, though.
Grass fed yogurt contains a healthy dose of quite a few vitamins and minerals, as well as a decent amount of protein.
47% of your daily intake of iodine, a mineral that’s responsible for regulating the production of growth hormones through the thyroid gland.
38% of your daily intake of vitamin B12. This vitamin can be tricky to obtain in the average diet, and deficiency isn’t uncommon. Vitamin B12 is important in the production neurotransmitters and supporting the cardiovascular system.
33% of your daily intake of phosphorus. Phosphorous is a very common mineral that’s present in every cell in the body, and is responsible for modulating genetic processes and other body systems. Without enough phosphorous, your cells won’t function as well as they could.
30% of your daily intake of calcium, which is responsible for the production and maintenance of healthy bones, teeth, and hair.
27% of your daily intake of vitamin B2, which is also known as riboflavin. Yogurt is one of the highest riboflavin containing foods in the world. Riboflavin helps your body produce energy efficiently, and also helps with the absorption and metabolism of iron.
25% of your daily intake of molybdenum, which is necessary for the body to produce certain enzymes which organ systems rely on for functioning.
19% of your daily intake of Vitamin B5, or pantothenic acid. This is one of the more important B vitamins. Like many other B vitamins, it helps the body produce energy effectively and efficiently. It’s metabolized into Coenzyme A, which is a vital component of life – some scientists even believe that it’s the key that led to the evolution of living creatures.
13% of your daily intake of biotin, also known as vitamin B7. Biotin helps maintain healthy skin and can regulate blood sugar, fighting against diabetes.
13% of your daily intake of zinc which helps the body build its immune system, keep the senses sharp and keep the skin looking young.
9 grams of protein per 100 grams of yogurt, Protein is the most vital component for the support and maintenance of tissues and muscles in your body.
The range of vitamins and minerals isn’t hugely diverse, but the nutrients yogurt does contain are quite densely packed in. Besides – that’s not what yogurt’s specialty is. One of the things yogurt is touted for is its use as a probiotic. Not all yogurts are as powerful probiotics as others. Make sure the label informs you that your yogurt contains active cultures.
Probiotics – the word meaning to (pro) life (biotic) – help improve digestion by managing and strengthening the intestinal flora. There are certain types of bacteria in our gut that we require for proper digestion
Yogurt helps control and maintain healthy blood sugar
While yogurt doesn’t contain a whole lot of fiber – the nutrient often touted for helping maintain blood sugar – they boast a mean combination of protein and bacteria. The live bacterial cultures help the body break down and absorb carbohydrates and nutrients more efficiently. Protein’s a good food for those looking to keep their blood sugar low, because it digests quite slowly and thus makes it easier to control your appetite.
These bacteria – there are millions in a cup of probiotic yogurt – can take sugars from our gut and turn them into useful fatty acids. The fatty acids are then used to energized the cellular structure in our lower intestine, which greatly assists the body in its breakdown of food and vitamins. However, once the bacteria have consumed the sugar, they won’t be absorbed by the body. This will prevent a rapid rise in blood sugar!
Conclusion: Even when eating meals high in carbohydrates or sugar, yogurt can work to prevent blood sugar spikes by regulating and modulating the way carbohydrates are processed. Including yogurt in your diet can offset some of the unhealthy risks from eating too many cookies.
2. Yogurt is a powerful probiotic that keeps you regular
Probiotics are quite powerful, interesting foods. Probiotics are foods that have live bacterial culture in them. These micro-organisms (which can also include yeast) help the body in a number of different ways.
Most yogurt does contain at least a few live bacterial cultures. However, you don’t want to think that means that yogurt all contains the same amount of bacteria. Ones that are labeled as probiotics often contain millions upon millions of live bacteria. For a yogurt to be considered effectively probiotic, you’re looking to have a million bacteria per gram.
Most companies measure their bacterial content in units known as colony forming units. CFUs are basically bacteria that are able to multiply and thus create larger colonies. You’ll often see the number 106 on containers of yogurt. This is the scientific way of writing a million. It’s indicative of how many CFUs are in the yogurt at the time of its production – so, a million CFUs is going to be a huge amount of bacteria by the time the yogurt is shelved and eaten.
Anyway, enough about counting bacteria and more about how it works. The bacteria in yogurt become active as a part of our metabolism once they reach our digestive tract. This helps speed along digestion, and increases the rate at which nutrients can be absorbed. Probiotics keep you ‘regular’ as well – they can prevent bouts of constipation or diarrhea.
The probiotic cells are also responsible for yogurt’s effect on blood sugar. Furthermore, bacteria eat the lactose in the yogurt – this means you’ll end up with less lactose (which is milk sugar) with a cup of yogurt than you would with a cup of milk.
Conclusion: Probiotic yogurt is a must-have for anyone looking to improve their digestion. It betters your ability to absorb nutrients, helps manage blood glucose, and makes your metabolism more effective.
3. Some strains of probiotics can strengthen your immune system
There have been a number of studies linking probiotics to improved immune function. Certain diseases, like inflammatory bowel syndrome, can get worse as an effect of the immune system’s automatic response. Probiotics can help prevent this.
Probiotics also make people more resistant to infections, and allow them to heal faster. Elderly people studied were shown to maintain their illnesses for much less time when they were consuming probiotics on a daily basis. They were studied on winter sicknesses – pulmonary and digestive issues, mainly – and there was up to a 20% reduction in the length of these illnesses.
Probiotics have been shown to be effective in fighting certain bacterial infections that are resistant to drug treatment. H. Pylori is a bacterium that can cause ulcers and eventually lead to stomach cancer. In people resistant to the medications used to treat H. Pylori infections, probiotics were effective at killing of some of the bacterium.
Conclusion: Regular consumption of yogurt containing active bacterial cultures can bolster your immune system and help you fight off disease that you might otherwise struggle with.
4. Probiotic yogurts can prevent and fight against vaginal infections
A good portion of vaginal infections are caused by yeast. Vaginitis – an infection that results in inflammation of the genital area, along with itching and discharge – is commonly found in women who have diabetes. A small group of diabetic women was tested to see if regular consumption of yogurt had a positive effect on their yeast infections.
Vaginitis causes an abnormally high pH in the genital region. The study group that was consuming probiotic yogurt with active cultures showed a significant decrease – pH was returned either to baseline or very close to it (around 4.0-4.5.) The symptoms of their infections were also reduced.
Conclusion: Probiotic yogurt can be an effective tool for fighting inflammation-based illnesses.
5. Yogurt can help fight against osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is a disease that results in the gradual degradation of bones. It can be observed by weight loss, brittle movements, and pain in the bones. Calcium deficiency can cause the blood to leach calcium from the bones to supply the cardiovascular system with the necessary amount of calcium to function.
Yogurt is quite a good source of calcium. Even without osteoporosis, calcium has positive effects on bone mass and strength. The results may not be the same for everyone, but the bottom line is – calcium is necessary for proper development of bones and teeth.
Yogurt and other dairy products are often supplemented with vitamin D. Vitamin D has a synergistic effect with calcium. The two nutrients allow each other to be transported and absorbed more effectively.
Conclusion: Yogurt includes ample amounts of calcium – enough to actively prevent osteoporosis from developing, or to slow its progress in those who have already succumbed to it.
6. Yogurt can reduce blood pressure
A fairly large study done on over five thousand people spanning two years confirmed a positive link between dairy products reducing blood pressure. High blood pressure was a problem only half as often for the study group that ate two or three servings of dairy daily.
High blood pressure is an issue because it puts stress on the cardiovascular system. It makes it more difficult to transport nutrients and proteins, allows buildup of cholesterol and blood fats, and slows circulation and metabolism. This can result in hardened arteries, a higher chance of having a hemorrhage, and other disease.
Women see more benefit from yogurt’s effects on blood pressure. Women who ate five or more servings of yogurt weekly showed a much lower rate of developing high blood pressure. It’s undetermined why women see more benefit than men – it’s possible that the men just consumed smaller amounts of yogurt or had diets with more carbohydrates.
There have been a lot of studies done on dairy products in general affecting blood pressure – but only recently has yogurt been studied extensively for its own benefits. These benefits seem to increase with higher consumption of yogurt. People who eat single servings of dairy products weekly show a much less significant decrease in blood pressure than those who ate five or more.
Conclusion: Yogurt with active bacterial cultures is a powerful agent for regulating blood pressure. Consuming yogurt or other dairy products on a daily basis can almost halve your chances of developing high blood pressure.
7. Yogurt can combat nausea caused by many different things
Yogurt is a food that’s very easy to digest. It also contains calcium, which can have an anti-emetic effect. Yogurt can prevent nausea if it’s eaten before consuming salty foods, or anything else that causes excess production of saliva – sometimes nausea can be caused by saliva filling an empty stomach.
If you have an illness like the flu, wait until you’re able to keep some liquids down without throwing up. At this point, you’ll probably be able to stomach yogurt. It’s a protein-rich food with a lot of calcium – this will help keep you full and feel a bit less queasy.
Conclusion: If you’re having trouble keeping down solid food, you might want to consider eating yogurt. It’s simple enough to digest but manages to keep you full without contributing to the queasiness.
8. Yogurt can help you maintain your weight by keeping you full for longer
The University of Washington tested a group of 32 people – 16 men and 16 women. Each individual was given a snack of 200 calories. They were either given semi-solid yogurt with pieces of fruit, drinkable yogurt, an imitation peach-flavoured dairy drink, or regular peach juice.
The group was tested before the first meal and before the next meal. The study group, who had consumed yogurt, ultimately consumed the same amount of calories – however, they were shown to have lower rates of hunger and ended up more full than the control groups.
Conclusion: Yogurt can help you feel full for longer, allowing you to shed some calories from your meals or separate your meals further apart. This can help you lose weight.
9. Yogurt can revitalize and strengthen your skin
If you don’t want to pay big sums of money for skin lotions and treatments, you might be in luck. You don’t have to search any further than your local supermarket to find an ingredient that can make awesome face masks and skin lotions: yogurt!
Yogurt is high in lactic acid. This is a chemical used in a lot of pharmacy bought skin lotions, moisturizers and creams – without all the preservatives and colourings. Lactic acid exfoliates the top layers of the skin, getting rid of blotches and off-colour spots – it can even get rid of small wrinkles.
A recipe for an easy skin mask you can make at home:
You will need
A cup of greek yogurt
Two or three drops of almond oil or olive oil
A tablespoon of honey
Simply mix the ingredients together until they’re blended together evenly, lather onto your face and let sit for around 30 minutes. Afterwards, just rinse it off and you’ll notice your skin will be smooth, sharp and glowing.
Conclusion: Yogurt is an affordable alternative to mass-produced skin products, that can be just as effective in removing or repairing imperfections on the skin. Making a face mask from yogurt is simple and worth the time.
How to use yogurt for maximum nutritional benefit
You must first choose what type of yogurt you want to use. There are dairy and non-dairy varieties. The non-dairy varieties are typically less dense in protein, but they have more fiber and can battle high blood sugar very well. Non-dairy yogurts must have the bacterial cultures added to them, so make sure you’re reading the label before purchasing.
You will want to make sure you store your yogurt properly, and purchase a variety that suits your needs. Most companies add bacterial cultures to their yogurt, so you don’t necessarily need to seek out unpasteurized yogurt to find ones rich in live cultures. The best bets are grass-fed and organic yogurts. Greek yogurt and unpasteurized are still great for you, though.
Make sure your yogurt’s not expired! Despite being a thriving conglomeration of bacterial culture, letting your yogurt go moldy does not improve the benefit.
Watch out for yogurt that’s sweetened. Yogurt made with fresh fruit can contain some extra vitamins and nutrients, and while they might be high in sugar, yogurt’s effective at managing blood sugar and the detrimental symptoms brought on by high blood sugar.
How to make your own yogurt
It’s quite simple to make your own yogurt. I’ll include this here so you can use your own homemade yogurt without having to resort to store bought products if you don’t want to.
All you really need is milk, heat, and your basic starter culture. Starter cultures have lactic acid bacteria in them, and are what starts the fermentation process that results in yogurt. The two most common bacteria included in starter culture are Lactobacillus bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophiles.
Heat up your milk – use about a quart, and it doesn’t matter if it’s whole or skim. The fattier the milk, the smoother your yogurt will be. When the milk is heated to around 180 degrees, then cool it down to 110 degrees (both fahrenheit.) Add the starter culture and keep it on the same temperature for 3-5 hours. This is the incubation period. After the incubation is finished, you can put your yogurt in the refrigerator to cool it before eating.
This site offers more tips and tricks about making your own yogurt.
Simple serving suggestions for a quick fix of yogurt
Cucumber and dill weed, chopped up and mixed with yogurt, can make a nice salad. IT’s good by itself, and makes a great accompaniment to grilled meats.
Yogurt makes a great addition to breakfast cereals or granola. It adds a heap of protein to the carbohydrate-rich cereal, allowing for an energizing meal that will last you for quite a while.
Yogurt parfaits are always a favourite. Simply layer yogurt and fruit on top of each other in a nice glass, and enjoy – guaranteed to taste better than the parfait you can get at a fast-food restaurant.
Yogurt can make some great salad dressings. Blend your yogurt with water until you reach a desired thickness, then mix with your favourite spices. A green salad with the probiotic benefits of yogurt? Doesn’t get much healthier.
Yogurt can always be enjoyed by itself, with a little cinnamon and brown sugar or honey sprinkled on top. This makes a tasty dessert that’s not only low in calories but high in nutrients and protein.
Amazing Yogurt Recipes for You to Try at Home
Now that you’re educated about yogurt’s impressive nutritional profile, you’re probably wondering how to include it in your diet. There are many more ways to introduce yogurt into your daily meal plan besides just eating it by the spoonful. Yogurt can be a great base for sauces, can accompany entrees, and can be used to make a ton of great desserts. Here’s a few of my favourite recipes. I’ve included some desserts, an entree, and a salad – you could potentially make a yogurt-based full-course meal if you wanted to.
Lemon-lavender Greek yogurt pound cake
This is a very interesting dessert with a very delicate and unique flavour profile. It wafts with a pleasant aroma that could pique curiosity in the most seasoned of food critics. This cake, soft and fluffy, shows that being creative can still get you some good results in the kitchen. This recipe takes about an hour to prepare and fully cool, and only ten minutes to prep. You’ll be left with two mini loaves of your lemon-lavender cake!
You’ll need:
One and a half cups of all purpose flour
A quarter teaspoon of baking powder
An eighth of a teaspoon of baking soda
A quarter teaspoon of salt
Half a cup of butter
A cup of sugar
Three eggs
Three quarters of a cup of Greek yogurt (probiotic)
One tablespoon of lemon juice
One teaspoon of vanilla extract
One teaspoon of lemon zest
One tablespoon of dried lavender
For the glaze:
A quarter cup of powdered sugar
Two tablespoons of milk
A few drops of vanilla extract
The method:
First, preheat your oven to 325 fahrenheit. Take a 9×5 loaf pan. Grease the pan in preparation.
In a bowl, mix your flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.
In a separate bowl – preferably that of a standing mixer – whip the butter. Slowly add the sugar and cream. When the mixture is nice and fluffy, you can add the eggs one-by-one. Mix each egg until it’s fully blended in with the other ingredients before adding the next one.
Once the eggs are added, begin mixing the dry ingredients in. Make sure to alternate between the yogurt and the rest of the ingredients. Once the mixture is just about evenly distributed, add the lemon juice, zest, and vanilla. Blend or beat until it’s mixed evenly.
Finally, mix in the lavender – crush the dried leaves first, if you prefer.
Pour your mixture into the pans and bake for about half an hour. The edges should be brown after this long. Let the dessert cool for at least ten minutes before transferring it out of the pan.
While it’s cooling, you can make your glaze. Just mix the powdered sugar with the milk and vanilla extract and stir until it’s evenly distributed. You can tweak the ratio of sugar and milk until you reach your preferred thickness.
2. Nigel’s Yogurt Brulee
This delectable treat can make either a fine breakfast or a fine dessert – or both. This recipe is based on one coined by Nigel Slater, in his book Real Fast Food. That should tell you that this recipe is a quick fixer-upper!
This recipe doesn’t call for any specific amounts. Preheat your broiler. Use a shallow, oven-safe dish and layer the bottom with berries. Raspberries, blueberries, blackberries – pick your favourite, or mix them up. Put your yogurt on top of the berries until it nearly reaches the rim of the dish, and then sprinkle sugar on top of the yogurt.
Broil the yogurt until the sugar begins melting and you end up with a caramelized, crispy top. That’s it! These are single servings, so eat at your leisure.
3. Roasted Veggie Tacos with Avocado Cream
These great tacos – eaten as a snack or an entree – combine a myriad of delightful spices and vegetables. The end result is colourful, incredibly tasty, and quite healthy. The recipe written here makes enough for four servings of two tacos each. The recipe is a bit ingredient-heavy, but the finished product is well worth the search for the perfect flavours. It packs a good amount of protein into a delicious, hands-on snack.
You will need:
For the taco filling
One zucchini
One summer squash
Three quarters of a red onion
One head of sweetcorn (or a small can, for the frugal)
A four-ounce container of cherry tomatoes, halved
A medium red pepper
Two garlic cloves
Two teaspoons of cumin
A quarter teaspoon of salt
A tablespoon of olive oil
A 15-oz can of chickpeas
For the avocado cream
A small avocado
A third of a cup of Greek yogurt
A quarter cup of cilantro
Juice from one lime
For garnish / optional ingredients / taco shells
Chopped cilantro
A quarter cup of Feta cheese
Eight corn tortillas
The method:
First, preheat your oven to 400 fahrenheit. While it’s heating up, prepare your vegetables. The zucchini should be diced, along with the squash and the onion. If you used fresh corn, remove it from the cob. Cut your cherry tomatoes in half, dice your red pepper, and mince your garlic.
Combine all the vegetables and toss them with the olive oil, salt, cumin and garlic. You can then roast the vegetables on a baking sheet coated in tinfoil. It should take about half an hour for them to be slightly browned.
While the veggies are in the oven, you can make your avocado sauce. Simply combine the avocado, cilantro, yogurt and lime juice in a bowl and whip them until they’re smooth.
When the sauce is done, heat the chickpeas up in a microwave for two minutes before adding to the vegetables. Warm up the tortillas in a microwave -wrapped in a moist towel to prevent them from drying out – and then spread the veggies evenly among them along with the avocado cream. You can garnish them with chopped cilantro and crumbled feta if you like.
4. Pasta with Zucchini, Tomatoes and Creamy Lemon-Yogurt Sauce
This is a vegetarian dish that combines a heck of a lot of flavours in a perfect balance. The cooking time is quite fast, even considering the time it takes to make your own lemon-yogurt sauce. You can’t use regular lemon-flavoured yogurt because the sweetness will throw off the recipe. This makes enough for 4 servings, weighing in at just over 300 calories each.
You’ll need:
8 ounces of your favourite whole wheat pasta
Half a cup of Greek yogurt
A quarter cup of parmesan cheese
A teaspoon of lemon zest
A quarter teaspoon of saltA quarter teaspoon of ground pepper
A teaspoon of olive oil
Three zucchinis
Two cloves of garlic
Half a pint of cherry tomatoes
The method:
First, get your pasta ready. Put a big pot of water on to boil, and once it’s bubbling, add your pasta. Cook it according to the directions. When the pasta’s cooked, take a quarter cup of the pasta water and set it aside. Drain the pasta through a sieve and let sit.
In a big mixing bowl, add the Parmesan and lemon zest after grating them. Mix in the yogurt and salt and pepper, then let sit.
Slice the zucchini into thin slices and mince your garlic, and dice your tomatoes. In a big pan, heat your olive oil up on medium-high. Once it’s hot, add the zucchini and fry until it begins to wilt. Make sure to flip them a couple times to ensure even heat distribution. They’ll be nearly see-through when they’re cooked.
Push the zucchini to one side of the pan. Add your minced garlic and cook for half a minute until it’s a nice golden colour, before mixing it into the zucchini. Add the tomatoes and cook until they’re soft, then transfer the whole mixture into the yogurt sauce, stir it, add your pasta, stir again. If the sauce is too thick, you can add pasta water by the tablespoon to dilute it.
Conclusion:
Not only is yogurt a great source of certain minerals and nutrients, it boasts an impressive amount of healthy bacteria. These probiotic cultures help your body metabolize food better and absorb the nutrients from other things in your diet.
Yogurt can fight quite a variety of diseases, and it does it quite well. Whether it’s protecting your cardiovascular system to prevent strokes and heart disease, or clearing out your gastrointestinal tract to make your guts smooth and squeaky clean.
Aside from that, yogurt’s flavour – distinct, but not overpowering – can be blended with all sorts of different cuisines. It can be used to make sweet desserts, can be used as a base for delicious curries and pasta sauces, or can be whipped up into salad dressings. The potential applications for yogurt in the kitchen are almost endless.
If you’re looking to double up on your intestinal health, strengthen your bones, or fight back against cardiovascular disease, you should consider keeping a healthy supply of probiotic yogurt in your kitchen. Remember – you want the kind that specifies live bacterial cultures are included. Other yogurts are still good for you – but these will be even better.
___
https://www.jenreviews.com/yogurt/
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on January 31, 2017 by The Health Coach.
Post navigation
← MEASLES: It’s Not A Virus! — Then What Is The Vaccine Really For? Don’t Ever Vaccinate Your Children Again! →
Search for:
Recent Posts
Essential Oils and Healing Salves for Tropical Birds
Inflamm-Aging: What everyone needs to know as we age
What It’s Like To Be Electro Hypersensitive With Maria August (Video)
Yoga For Psoas (Video)
Electro-Hypersensitivity Explained by a Sufferer (Video)
BEGINNER’S GUIDE TO MEDITATION (Video)
Mindfulness Meditation Practice to Observe the Self, Be the Witness (Video)
How to make your own Silica Water
DENTAL PROTOCOL: For the safe and proper removal of a root-canaled teeth
How moisturizing your skin reduces the risk of dementia
Five Natural Remedies for Ganglion Cysts
6 Home Treatments for Ganglion Cysts
Ganglion Cysts and Essential Oil Treatments
Home Remedies For Ganglion Cysts
Here’s how they are stealthily doing the 5G roll-out—WITHOUT INFORMED CONSENT!
Influencing the Immune System via the Wim Hof Method (Video)
Wim Hof Breathing Tutorial (Video)
(no title)
Natural Remedies for Cerebral Palsy Symptoms
Wim Hof Breathing Method (Videos)
Top 2 Breathing Exercises for Singers (Video)
How to Breathe Better for Singing (Video)
Stop Straining and Pushing When Singing (Video)
How to Sing from Your Diaphragm Properly (Video)
How to Breathe Correctly for Singing (Video)
Proper Breathing for Singers: Inhale for Success
A Helpful Breathing Exercise for Singers (Video)
Breathing and Singing (Video)
Fix Your Singing Using Breath (Video)
How to Properly Breath While Singing (Video)
How to Breathe When Singing (Video)
How the Win Hof Method Helps Depression (Video)
Holistic Remedies After Anesthesia
How to flush out anesthesia toxins
5 Ways To Bounce Back Quickly After Anesthesia
ESSENTIAL DAILY HEALTH TIPS FOR 2019
BILE SALTS: How to take them
Which Foods Are Best for the Gallbladder
Dr. Berg Speaks on the Gallbladder: Diseases and Treatments
CHAKRAS: The 7 Energy Centers, Their Frequency and Healing (Video)
Foods that are good for radiation detox
Salt and Soda Soak: A Radiation Detox Bath
Sjögren’s Syndrome: The 13 Primary Symptoms
The Best Way to Protect One’s Health in 2019 and Beyond
ENDOCRINE DISRUPTORS: So many now they’re affecting puberty development… and much more!
The Importance of Salt & Water (Video)
Heart Health and High Blood Pressure (Video)
Foods That Help Relieve Arthritis
Greek foot vs Roman foot vs Egyptian foot
ROOT CANALS: The Real Story That Your Dentist Will NOT Tell You
Root Canal Dangers
How to Recognize a Pelvis Problem (Video)
Pyroluria Questionnaire from The Antianxiety Food Solution
Our Preliminary Recommendation for Lugol’s Iodine
Health Concerns: WHAT ARE THE MEDICAL DANGERS OF MARIJUANA USE?
7 Hidden Health Dangers Of Smoking Marijuana Revealed In 2016
Dangers of Marijuana: Long-Term Effects on the Brain and Body
5-Day Bowel Detox Program — Directions from Dr. Schulze
How to remineralize your teeth naturally
10 Ways to Heal Your Teeth Naturally
An Excellent Tooth Remineralization Program
What people need to know before they have hernia surgical repair!
A Condensed Course in Push Catch Liver Detox (Video)
Is Florida’s ‘Red Tide’ worsened by dispersant-treated oil from the BP Gulf oil spill?
How To Make A Comfrey Poultice (video)
Here’s a good reason to clean your ears when you feel something wiggling in the canal.
Healing Inguinal Hernia With Exercise Full Workout (Video)
How to lower PSA levels naturally
Vegetables High in Protein
Vitamin D: The Adverse Side Effects
UBUIQUINOL: What are the major side effects
FIBROUS DYSPLASIA
21 Effective Skin Infection Treatments You Can Do At Home
Adverse Side Effects of Finasteride
Shoulderstand Tutorial (Video)
Inguinal hernias and stem cell treatment
10 Best Homeopathic Medicines for Treatment of Depression
Anxiety, Stress, Your Gut and Homeopathy
Homeopathic Remedies for Emotional Stress & Depression
PSORA MIASM: The Defining Aspects
How To Remove Deep Ama
PSORA MIASM: The “Mother of Chronic Disease.”
The Role of Slime Mold in the Progression of Morgellons
LUNATION CYCLE ASTROLOGY: A Powerful Tool on the Healing Journey
Vaccine Lawsuit Exposes Massive Fraud by HHS
Hiatal Hernia Self Adjustment (Video)
Hiatal Hernia Syndrome Reference Book
Excellent Hatha Yoga Posture for Hiatal Hernia
Yoga: The Perfect Workout For Hiatal Hernia
3 Best Exercises For Hiatal Hernia (Video)
HIATAL HERNIA, SELF-ADJUSTMENT TECHNIQUE & TREATMENTS
7 Best Hiatal Hernia Natural Treatment Options
11 Effective Home Remedies for Hiatal Hernia
Home Remedies for Hiatal Hernias
ASPARAGUS: A Cancer-killing Vegetable Especially for the Oral Cavity
Florida’s Red Tide ‘Mystery’ Is No Mystery At All
Potassium Rich Foods
Fourteen Foods Loaded With Potassium
Top Potassium-Rich Foods and How They Benefit You
What Foods To Avoid On The Candida Diet
Pitta pacifying diet (Chart)
Pitta Foods and Beverages: SUMMERTIME
RNASE ENZYME DEFICIENCY DISEASE
Tongue Diagnosis in Chinese Medicine
Ayurvedic Tongue Analysis: An Excellent Diagnostic Tool
Tongue Diagnosis Made Easy
Ayurvedic Tongue Analysis: What does your tongue say about your health?
What our tongue tells us about our health
Swallow Syncope: When the act of eating adversely affects the heart
Yin Yang Food Chart
ATANTRIL Testimony: A Natural Treatment for SIBO
Natural Treatment Plan For Undescended Testicles
Hormonal Therapy for Cryptorchidism aka Undescended Testicle(s)
Natural Treatment for an Undescended Testicle
Biofilm Protocol Explained
16 Simple Home Remedies To Cure Dry Eyes Permanently
Dry Eye Syndrome
How to Get Rid of Dry Eyes Naturally
The Diabetes Diet That Works
Pyroluria: Everything you need to know
The O positive (and O negative) blood type diet?
PYROLURIA: If You Have It, You Need To Know it!
Natural Remedies for Treating Biofilms
Bile Duct Obstruction: What are the main causes?
Protocol to break down the biofilms that protect bad gut bacteria
How To Get Enough Protein Without Eating Meat
Foods That Are Rich Salicylates
Are your bile ducts closing up?
Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome: Be careful of hot chili peppers
SULFUR: The Missing Link in Cruciferous Veggies That Can Heal Genetic Disease
Best Natural Treatment for Dientamoeba Fragilis (Video)
The Failure of the Flu Vaccine
“Healing is Voltage” — Dr. Jerry Tennant
Arthritis Pain: When Diet Really Matters
If you suffer from any type of arthritis, you must learn about the nightshade connection.
ARTHRITIS: Healing with “Food First”
How to Ease Your Arthritis Pain With Simple Food Swaps
EPIGENETICS: How nurture affects nature in the development of disease
Postpartum Depression: What are the biochemical markers?
Ashwaganda: Ancient Herb Proven to be a Potential Cure for Alzheimer’s
COCONUT OIL: The Superfood for Alzheimer’s
How to reverse memory loss due to Alzheimer’s—naturally!
Natural Treatment for Alzheimer’s Disease
The Most Effective Natural Treatments for SIBO
The Primary Symptoms of SIBO
6 Signs That SIBO Might be the Root Cause of Your IBS
Everyone Needs a Chemtrail Protection Protocol
Dr. Gabriel Cousens on Reversing Diabetes in 21 Days (Video)
Common Symptoms of a Healing Crisis
Apana Mudra: The Purification Mudra
Ten Foods That Help Relieve Constipation Naturally
Even infants and young children are being given annual flu shots
Attorney Demolishes Pro-Vaccine Talking Points, Lays Bare The Shocking Facts About Vaccination Risks And Dangers
Anti Candida Diet
Do you have cold hands and feet?
Medical Causes Of Cold Hands And Feet
Morton’s Toe: The Telltale Connection Between Pyroluria & Vitamin B6 Deficiency
Morton’s foot & Vitamin B6
Morton’s Toe
Morton’s Toe & B6 Deficiency
PYROLURIA: A Integrative Psychiatrist’s View
Primary Symptoms of Pyroluria
PYROLURIA: A Comprehensive List of Symptoms & Associated Conditions
Fatal Breast Cancer Gene Does Not Exist — The Lancet
Can Your Hip Replacement Kill You?
9 Fast-Acting Natural Remedies for Heartburn (Plus 5 Long-Term Solutions)
Chemical fertilizers are radioactive and the real cause of tobacco-related cancer
Ayurvedic Natural Treatments for Parkinson’s Disease
How to Perform the Mahamudra Asana (Instruction video)
HATHA YOGA: A Highly Therapeutic Healing Modality
How to Fix “Low Back” Pain (Video)
Hatha Yoga to Treat Sciatica (Video)
Hatha Yoga to Relieve Low Back Tension (Video)
NIH Scientific Research Paper Confirms Adverse Health Effects From Chemtrail Aeorsols
The Primary Symptoms of Blood Clots in the Leg
Blood Clots In Legs Symptoms
Chronic Fatigue Symptoms: An Added Challenge To Diagnosing Stealth Infections
Post Bacterial and Post Viral Fatigue in Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome
When is tinnitus a symptom for Meniere’s disease?
Lymphatic Drainage Massage for Tinnitus: Comments from those who have used it successfully
Lymph Drainage for the Ears (Video)
A Detoxified & Disinfected Ear Can Help Heal Tinnitus
How a clean ear canal can help alleviate tinnitus
TINNITUS: What does it tell us about our response to life
Natural Remedies for Respiratory Infections
Effective Home Remedies for Upper Respiratory Infection
How to treat respiratory tract infections with everyday foods and spices
12 Flu Natural Remedies
Natural Remedies for Upper Respiratory Infections
The 9 Best Herbs for Lung Cleansing and Respiratory Support
Home Remedies for Upper Respiratory Infections
The Plant Paradox: The Hidden Dangers in ‘Healthy’ Foods That Cause Disease and Weight Gain
10 NATURAL REMEDIES THAT CAN EFFECTIVELY CURE TINNITUS
11 Unconventional Remedies That Cure Ringing Ears Fast
16 Home Remedies and Natural Cure of Tinnitus
16 Effective Home Remedies For Tinnitus
Natural home remedies for tinnitus
There are natural cures for ringing in the ears
8 Excellent Home Remedies for Tinnitus
Top Five Remedies for Tinnitus
Home Remedies for Tinnitus
How to Re-Awaken Your Spirituality to Reconnect with the Natural World
The Occupational Dangers for Holistic Doctors and Alternative Health Professionals
The Best Foods That Eliminate Cancer Stem Cells
Estrogen & Your Prostate
How To Easily Heal and Prevent Cold Sores
13 Cold Sore Remedies
Cold Sore Remedies
Herbal Remedies For Cold Sores
Effective Home Remedies for Cold Sores (Fever Blisters)
Natural Treatments for Cold Sores
12 Home Remedies For Cold Sores Ranked By Effectiveness
10 WAYS TO GET RID OF A COLD SORE FAST
16 Ways to Prevent & Get Rid of Cold Sores
How to Get Rid of Cold Sores Naturally
Treat cold sores overnight with our magical home remedies
Danica Patrick Mixes Yoga and Pushups
The 10 Most Common Signs 30 Days a Heart Attack
11 BEST FOODS TO NATURALLY BOOST COLLAGEN
Mycoplasma, the Most Common Lyme Coinfection
Impossible Burger from Impossible Foods is Unsafe, FDA says
Cell Phone Radiation Violates Limits When Tested Against Body
DOGS FED SARDINES SHOW HIGH STRONTIUM LEVELS
The Best Herbal Teas for Nausea
PLUM EXTRACT: An Excellent Way to Alkalize the Body
Monk Fruit: Nature’s Best Sweetener
3 Ways To Determine Your Chinese Constitutional Type?
Three Ayurveda Body Type Tests
The Heart is Not a Pump
How To Properly Break A Fast
Is BRCA (“Breast Cancer Gene”) A Death Sentence?
What does a BRCA gene mutation really mean regarding breast cancer?
Asanas and Exercises to Activate the Thyroid Gland
Baba Ramdev Yoga Asanas To Cure Thyroid
Top 10 Yoga Poses for Thyroid Treatment and Prevention
5 Quick Yoga Poses For THYROID Problems & Disorders
Potassium Broth Recipe
Borax Best Detox & Cure For Mycoplasma, Arthritis, Morgellons and More
Dr James Barile Recommends Rebounding For Optimal Health
Injury & Trauma Caused By Physicians During Childbirth (Video)
BORON: The Missing Link For Rheumatoid Arthritis, Lupus and Mycoplasma Diseases
MORGELLONS: Signs and Symptoms
Morgellons, Chemtrails & Possible Cure
Prostate Cancer: Loss of territory (wife leaves or man loses his job/business)
The Missing Mineral Necessary for Bone Rejuvenation
The Wonder of Boron for Bone Health
BORON: The Inexpensive Cure For Bone Ailments
BORON: The Missing Link For Bone Formation
OSTEOPOROSIS: A Revolutionary Perspective On Causes And Treatments
Boron and Bone Density
Raynaud’s Disease Remedies and Supplements
Raynaud’s Syndrome: Natural Interventions That Can Make A Big Difference
Raynaud’s Syndrome: How dietary changes can help
Effective Home Remedies For Raynaud’s Disease
Natural Remedies for Raynaud’s Disease
Raynaud’s Disease: A Natural Approach
17 Dairy-free Calcium Sources
Top 10 Foods Highest in Calcium
World’s Healthiest Foods Rich in Calcium
12 natural ways to treat osteoporosis
How to reverse osteopororsis naturally
Never underestimate the power of goldenseal
The Benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar and Baking Soda
The Relationship Between Vasculitis and Lupus
Arthritis and Vasculitis
Solar & Lunar Eclipses: Why it’s important NEVER to watch them!
Baking Soda a Cure for Humanity
Important things to know about your pharmaceutical medications
Food Combination Chart
Osteoporosis: What your doctor will never tell you about high bone mineral density
Ever watch a typical childbirth process in an American hospital
Medical drug effects in a world organized on Scarcity
PEMF Almag-2: An Excellent Chiropractic Product Review
Dr. William Pawluk Speaks About The New Magnetic Medicine
The Many Health Benefits Of Doing Regular Coffee Enemas
A Homeopath Explains The Thyroid And Its Secrets
Thyroid and Homeopathic Iodine
Common Homeopathic Remedies for Thyroid Problems
Treating Thyroid Nodules With Homeopathy
Thyroid Nodules: A Success Story with Natural Treatments
What to do for thyroid nodules
FULVIC ACID: An Excellent Chelator for Detoxifying the Thyroid
Can Natural Treatment Methods Shrink Thyroid Nodules?
12 Natural Cures For Thyroid Nodules
Top 11 Natural Cures For Thyroid Nodules
Natural Treatment for Thyroid Nodules
The Link Between Epstein–Barr Virus and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Study: EBV is Linked to Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Epstein-Barr Virus linked to Rheumatoid Arthritis and other Autoimmune diseases
Epstein-Barr Syndrome: The Silent Pandemic Afflicting Humanity
The Discovery of Epstein-Barr Virus according to Wikipedia
Natural Treatments for Epstein-Barr Virus
Natural Protocol For Curing Chronic Epstein-Barr Virus
Natural Treatments for Epstein-Barr Virus
The Common Virus at the Root of Many Medical Ailments
What everyone needs to know about Epstein-Barr Virus Stage IV
#1 Book Recommendation for 2017: MEDICAL MEDIUM by Anthony William
Monolaurin: A Natural Treatment for Epstein-Barr Virus and Herpes
Autoimmune Disease: The Infection Connection
Natural Approach to Healing Autoimmune Disease
Epstein-Barr Virus and Autoimmune Diseases
Top 20 Foods With High B12 Content
Aluminum dangers – What they don’t want you to know
Can Coffee Cause Acid Reflux? Yes! 7 Ways to Avoid It
“Water alone should never be heated in a microwave.” — ABA
Potent Remedy for Warts
SEPSIS: A New Revolutionary Treatment
The potential risks to human health from 5G
9 Incredible Benefits Of Taking Turmeric
WHERE DID WRNASE ENZYME DEFICIENCY DISEASE REALLY COME FROM?
Breaking: NVIC Tracking 134 Vaccine Bills Introduced in 35 States
Breaking: NVIC Tracking 134 Vaccine Bills Introduced in 35 States
How To Identify A Psychopath
The Wireless World Of Health Harms
10 Robust Reasons to Rock that Chair
The Benzene Connection to Cancer and Diabetes
The 14 Fake Olive Oil Companies Are Revealed Now – Avoid These Brands
A MUST READ If You Have Rh-Negative Blood
Ken Wilbur, Incline Village and RNase Enzyme Deficiency Disease
Don’t Ever Vaccinate Your Children Again!
YOGURT: The Top Nine Health Benefits
MEASLES: It’s Not A Virus! — Then What Is The Vaccine Really For?
CHEMTRAIL SYNDROME: A Global Pandemic Of Epic Proportions.
14 Ways of Minimizing Cellphone Radiation Exposure
Robert Kennedy Jr. agrees to ‘chair a commission on vaccination safety and scientific integrity’ for Trump
Huge news for anti-vaccine and parental rights supporters
JUST NATURAL Hair Care: High Quality Shampoos for Hair Loss and Greying
Basics of Ayurveda
FAIL: Diabetes Medication Isn’t Working. So What Does?
Which Dangerous Dishwashing Products Should Always Be Avoided?
Herbal Remedy for Rheumatoid Arthritis
Do you sit for long periods of time?
Severe childhood allergies to peanuts, eggs and dairy directly linked to ‘trace’ ingredients in common vaccines
Help Raise Awareness about the Connection Between Eating Disorders and Substance Abuse
Homeopathy Natural Treatment for Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Mycoplasma Infections
Top Five Homeopathic Remedies for Joint Pains in Rheumatoid Arthritis
Top Homeopathic Medicines For Rheumatoid Arthritis
5 best Homeopathic remedies for Rheumatoid Arthritis
Homeopathy for RHEUMATISM
A Wellness Talk With Dr. Bernard Jensen
Osteoporosis Is Scurvy of the Bone, Not Calcium Deficiency
Three Reasons Men Tolerate Spousal Abuse
PTSD and Coping with A Loved One Dealing with It
Dealing with Depression
Coping with ADHD
Homeopathic treatment for Torticollis / Wry Neck
Homeopathic Remedies for Tortocollis
WRY NECK (SPASMODIC TORTICOLLIS) NATURAL REMEDIES
Acute Torticollis — a New Approach to Treatment
Torticollis: Natural and fast remedies
HIATAL HERNIA: Causes, Correction and Self Help
Use natural remedies for a hiatal hernia
How to Fix a Hiatal Hernia Naturally
Home Remedies for Hiatal Hernias
Alkalize Your Coffee With This One Delicious Ingredient To Mitigate Negative Effects
Teeth Remineralization Protocol
Government advises airlines to spray pesticides on passengers
15 Health Benefits of Holy Basil
5 Shingles Natural Treatments
6 Home Remedies for Acid Reflux
Six natural remedies for acid reflux
15 Natural Remedies for the Treatment of Acid Reflux and Ulcers
Treatment for an Acute Shingles Attack
How to Get Rid of Kidney Stones
Top 8 Natural Remedies for Kidney Stones That Really Work
10 Natural Remedies for Kidney Stones
Hatha Yoga Now 50 minute – Accelerated Workout
Back Care Hatha Yoga With Rodney Yee
Hatha Yoga for Energy and Stress Relief
Hatha Yoga For Beginners — Morning with Rodney Yee
AMBIEN: Hallucinations, Sleep Walking and Alarming Dreams
How BioGeometry Can Be Used to Mitigate EMF Pollution
Acupressure Chart for the Hands
14 OF THE BEST FOODS FOR LIVER HEALTH, CLEANSING, AND DETOX
15 Ways to Boost Your Liver for Great Health
19 SUPER FOODS THAT NATURALLY CLEANSE YOUR LIVER
14 Foods That Cleanse the Liver
Oxidative stress and Aging
Press Release: Vaccine Safety Documentary Pulled from East End Film Festival Amid Outside Pressure
Ten Top Items: Address Ulcerative Colitis Naturally
Natural Treatment For Ulcerative Colitis
Ulcerative Colitis Diet: Foods, Supplements & Natural Remedies that Heal
Colitis
My All-Natural Treatment Plan for Ulcerative Colitis
WHAT IS YOUR TONGUE TELLING YOU ABOUT YOUR HEALTH?
BEC or Eggplant Extract: Stunning New Way to Flush Away Skin Cancer
Fasting-Like Diet Has Profound Effect On Autoimmune And Inflammatory Conditions Like MS
11 Collagen-Boosting Foods
10 Collagen Rich Diet Foods for Glowing Skin
10 Plant-based Foods Packed with Iron
Iron in the Vegan Diet
Excellent Food Sources Of Iron
Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
14 Natural Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infections
7 Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Symptoms
At Home Bladder Infection Remedies
D-Mannose for UTI Prevention Validated in a Clinical Trial
STRESS & NUTRITION: Crucial Info For Every Health Practitioner
The Health Benefits of Serrapeptase
How Does Modern Technology Interfere With The Earth’s Frequencies?
SUNDOWNER’S SYNDROME
SOMETIMES YOUR BODY JUST NEEDS A REST
5 Natural Cures To OCD
11 Effective Home Remedies For OCD
KETAZOLAM: Side Effects and Serious Concerns
DMSO – The Real Miracle Solution
Vaccines : Untested, Unsafe and Unnecessary
Natural Treatments to Relieve Anxiety and OCD
Natural Treatment Plan for Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD
How to Beat OCD Without Drugs (It’s Simple But Not Easy!)
Methylation: Why It Matters For Your Immunity, Inflammation & More
MUST READ: If you are thinking of having LASIK Surgery
Disturbing: Researchers Finally Confirm That Cancer Is A Purely Man-Made Disease
2016 Series Begins On April 12th: “The Truth About Cancer: A Global Quest”
10 Benefits of Eating Organic Food
15 Reasons to Eat Organic Food
Top 10 Reasons To Go Organic
Avoiding Gluten Good For More Than Just Celiacs, Study Confirms
This is What Happens To Your Body When You Eat Pink Himalayan Salt
14 Natural Remedies To Beat Insomnia Plus Tips to Get a Better Night’s Rest
To the Cancer Patient: Natural Cures vs. Traditional
Alternative Cancer Treatment Options vs Conventional Cancer Treatments
Conventional Medicine Vs. Holistic: A World of Difference
“The Truth About Cancer: A Global Quest” — A Revolutionary Wellness Platform
Epigenetics And Cancer: You Are What You Eat
Biophotons: The Human Body Emits, Communicates with, and is Made from Light
Blacklisted Health Book Soars To NY Times Best-Seller Status Via Grassroots Support
HEMORRHOIDS: Natural Treatments According to Edgar Cayce
Why is the Media So Afraid of This Woman’s Work?
8 Natural Remedies That May Help You Sleep
The Worst Foods That Cause Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Signs and Symptoms of Hemochromatosis
Dr. Suzanne Humphries Has A Lot To Say About Aluminum In Vaccines
Stem Cell Therapy Replacing Knee Replacement Surgery
10 Natural Ways To Relieve Rheumatoid Arthritis
Easy To Make Vanilla Cinnamon Almond Milk Recipe
Is Comfrey Safe?
Are You Eating Too Much Soy?
These Foods Make Arthritis and Inflammation Worse
The Link Between Nightshades, Chronic Pain and Inflammation
Top 8 Musts for Treating Rheumatoid Arthritis Naturally
Expert tips on how you can reverse rheumatoid arthritis naturally
Where Oh Where Have All the Almonds Gone? (An update)
Hernia Coach Successfully Uses Dr. Hulda Clark’s Protocols To Heal Inguinal Hernia
How To Holistically Remediate An Inguinal Hernia
Top 21 natural home remedies for sleep apnea in toddlers & adults
Being Alert to Sleep Apnea
Natural Remedies for Sleep Apnea
The 17 Signs Your Body is Too Acidic and 9 Ways to Quickly Alkalize It
Science Confirms Turmeric As Effective As 14 Drugs
An Ayurvedic Approach to Gaining Weight
Top 10 Foods Highest in Calories
12 Ways to Help You Snooze Without Snoring
Beat sleep apnea naturally
6 Natural Sleep Apnea Treatments
Using Massage Therapy to Treat Enlarged or Inflamed Thyroid Glands
Goitre: How to naturally treat an enlarged thyroid
500 Reasons Turmeric May Be The World’s Most Important Herb
Neti Pot Demo & Guide
Effective Treatment Protocols for Hypothyroid and Hyperthyroid Disease
Do you take Ibuprofen? Then read this!
CHEMTRAILS: New Lawsuit Being Filed Against Geoengineering
Blood Clots: A Discussion of the Best Alternatives Remedies
Best Natural Blood Thinners
7 AMAZING HERBAL REMEDIES FOR DEEP VEIN THROMBOSIS
Reduce Your Risk Of Blood Clots Without A Prescription
Natural Remedies to Help Prevent Blood Clots
Blood Clots in Legs Symptoms, Treatment and Natural Remedies
Hemochromatosis: Scourge of the Northern European Bloodline
Hemochro­mato­sis Treated With Traditional Chinese Medicine
Ferritin and Iron
Hemochromatosis Remedies
Iron Overload (Hemochromatosis) Cured by Cabbage
Austin Mold and Airborne Allergies
Probiotic Foods
Natural Remedies That Work: Irritable Bowel Syndrome
34 Home Remedies for Irritable Bowel Syndrome
How To Treat Irritable Bowel Syndrome With Homeopathy
Can the Miracle of Enzymes Help Me?
Chemtrail Poisons Are Ruining Your Health From Above, And You May Not Know
Neurologist Warns Aluminum in Chemtrails Could Cause “Explosive Increase in Neurodegenerative Diseases”
97% Of All Terminal Cancer Patients Previously Had Root Canals
9 Spices That May Save Your Life
An Anti-Antibiotic Adventure
The Nightshade Nightmare
Nightshades Curb Your Enthusiasm
The Solution to the Childhood Vaccination Enigma
Angelina Jolie: Heroic Mastectomy Role Model or Mastotemanophiliac
These Seeds Destroy Cancerous Cells
A Fluoride-Free Pineal Gland Is More Important Than Ever
600 Reasons Turmeric May Be The World’s Most Important Herb
Part IV: Chronic Problems Related to Gall Bladder Dysfunction/Disease
Part III: Chronic Problems Related to Gallbladder Dysfunction/Disease
Part II: Chronic Problems Related to Gallbladder Dysfunction/Disease
Part I: Chronic Problems Related to Gallbladder Dysfunction/Disease
The Hulda Clark Gallbladder Flush and Liver Cleanse
Liver Cleanse Diet: 11 Ways to Support the Body’s Fat and Toxin Processing Wonder
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
April 2014
March 2014
January 2014
December 2013
October 2013
June 2013
March 2013
February 2013
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
Categories
Uncategorized
Proudly powered by WordPress