Blog Archives - Harmony Music Therapy Scotland
Harmony Music Therapy Scotland
Home
Music Therapy
What is Music Therapy?
Who is Music Therapy for?
Where do Music Therapists Work?
Music Therapy FAQ & links
About Harmony MT
Mission
Services
Presentations, Inservices and Workshops
Music Therapist Profile
Contact Us
Blog
Music Therapy for Depression
27/1/2012
1 Comment
http://www.nhs.uk/news/2011/08August/Pages/music-therapy-for-depression.aspx
When you are having a bad day and put on your favourite CD you usually feel better right? We know that music can lift our moods that it can get us dancing and singing and build us up or wakes us up. But what about if you suffer from Depresssion? Can music still have the power to lift your mood?
Good News: Last year BBC News reported that “music therapy can be used to improve treatment of
depression, at least in the short term”.
Depression is commonly treated with medication and psychiatric counselling.
Studies have found that music therapy is a promising additional
treatment for depression. This randomised controlled trial set out in the above article demonstrated that
people receiving active music therapy in addition to standard care had a
significantly greater improvement in their symptoms than those receiving
standard care alone after three months of treatment.
If you are having a blue day today stick on your favourite song and start to sing along and have a music hug.
Alternatively if you or a loved one is suffering from depression dont let them suffer alone or in silence. Counselling and medication can be a great help and why not try and book a trial session with a near by music therapist or contact Harmony Music Therapy Scotland - www.harmonymusictherapyscotland.co.uk and we'll slot you in for a session.
1 Comment
Music Therapy and Brain Injury
11/1/2012
0 Comments
http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18563_162-57354265/how-music-is-helping-rep-giffords-recover/
Music Therapy can be a vital part in treatment for those recovering from from brain Injury or stroke. For those whose language centre of the brain has been damaged and speech has become a problem, music can help a patient relearn speech patterns and language through singing and rhythm.
although many patients may struggle to speak in sentences they often have less trouble singing them. 'The ability to speak is mainly controlled by two areas on the left side of the brain. But when we sing or listen to music, wide swaths of both sides of the brain become active. Doctors have learned putting words to melody stimulates
memory and helps a damaged brain recover the ability to process language. '
harmony music therapy scotland specializes in working with brain injury and stroke patients. If you would like to make a referral please email us at Kristen. MT@live.co.uk
0 Comments
Music therapy with Pre-school Children
9/1/2012
0 Comments
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ronna-kaplan-ma/music-therapy-children_b_1188226.html
This is a great Article by the American Music Therapy Associations past president Ronna Kaplan. She explores music therapy in Early Education stating that" Music therapists sometimes use arts integration to address state academic content standards. In a preschool class where many of the children have speech and language delays, the music therapist helps children identify matching sounds and recognize rhymes in songs and words, part of a core pre-kindergarten language arts standard."
For those of you interested in how music therapy can benefit pre-school children or ways in which Music therapists engage young children through music this is a great read! :)
0 Comments
Kristen MT
I'm a n MT-BC who loves to play piano, guitar, sing and dance!
Archives
January 2016
December 2013
April 2013
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
September 2011
Categories
All
Adolescents
Adults
Autism
Brain Injury
Children
Christmas
Colours
Communication
Dementia. Alzheimers
Depression
Early Childhood
Elderly
Emotions
General Notes
GRADE 1 Piano
Halloween
Improvisation
Instrument Activities
Instrumental Lessons
Ipad Apps
Medical
Mental Health
Movement Activities
Musical Stories
Nursing Home
Self Esteem
Sensory
Sharing
RSS Feed
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started