Buy Magnetic Copper & Brass Wave Bracelet MCB076 – Cathy Davey Health
Skip to content
Cathy Davey Health
General Health Advice
Buy Magnetic Copper & Brass Wave Bracelet MCB076
facebook
pinterest
Copper was used in medicine by the ancient Egyptians who used copper in compounds for healing wounds, treating headaches, epilepsy and for sterilizing water. The Greeks used copper as an anti-infective and the Romans used it for skin, neurological and inflammatory conditions. The ancient Indians and Persians used copper to treat lung conditions whilst it is thought the Aztecs used it as part of a throat gargle. The use of bio magnetism in various clinics throughout the world is ever increasing with reports from healers who have observed positive benefits from natural magnetism upon health and well-being through stimulation of blood circulation and building of cells to rejuvenate tissue in the body. Bio-magnetism is thought to affect iron and oxygen in the blood ,promoting circulation. Magnetism is thought to increase electrical conductivity of blood. A weak current is passed through the blood producing increased ions that contributes towards more efficient blood flow and is thought to stabilize blood pressure. It is thought that natural iron found in the blood is magnetized resulting in increased oxygen to cell tissue that promotes an increase of carbon dioxide waste from the cells to the lungs for removal which is thought to result in less fatigue and an increase in vitality. Research has shown that magnetic therapy may: Relieve pain Reduce inflammation Restore energy Increase melatonin and it’s growth hormones Wearing a magnetic bracelet can ease pain caused by arthritis of the hips and knees UK researchers have shown. The British Medical Journal study found a significant reduction in pain scores among people wearing copper magnetic bracelets and that benefits from wearing the bracelets were in addition to existing treatments. WARNING: SEEK MEDICAL ADVICE IF YOU HAVE OR WILL BE FITTED WITH A PACEMAKER OR ANY MEDICAL DEVICE BEFORE WEARING A MAGNETIC BRACELET.
A very unusual and delicate bracelet. This copper and brass bracelet has copper strands woven through it and would grace any ladies wrist on any social occasion
It is fitted with two rare earth magnets measuring 1700gauss and can be worn as a beautiful piece of jewellery
Standard size.fits wrist (172mm)-(190mm)Made in the United Kingdom of pure copper and brass
Available in a medium size and is fully extendable to suit most wrist sizes
All bracelets are sent to the customer in a free black presentation box
Related Posts
Buy Slim Magnetic Copper Bangle/Bracelet Gold & Chrome Finish Elegant Design by SISTO-X® Health Rare Earth NdFeB 6 Magnets
Buy Magnetic Three Colour Twist Bracelet with Etched-0n Lines design Copper Magnetic Ring Combi Set (SMALL RING SIZE : 16 – 18mm)
Buy Premium Black Neoprene Breathable magnetic Posture Corrector bad back shoulder lumbar support belt brace
Post navigation
Buy Natures Way Zinc 30 Mg 30 Mg 100 Caps
Buy Simplantex Wheelchair Starter Pack
Search for:
Recent Posts
Tips On How To Handle Your Back Discomfort
Health Insurance: An Easy Guide For Everyone
Tips To Help You With Cosmetic Surgery
Tips To Help You Live Well With Diabetes
Chiropractors 101: Everything You Need To Know
Pages
Contact
Terms
Privacy
Disclaimer
Copyright
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy