How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes! - Right Home Remedies
About us
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Open search panel
Search for:
MenuMenu
Home
Home Remedies
Health & Wellness
Skin Care
Hair Care
How to
Super Foods
Weight Loss
Open search panel
Search for:
Breaking news
10 Early Warning Signs of Lung Cancer You Need to…7 Early Warning Signs of Stroke Everyone Should Know﻿Take this Remedy and you will Eliminate Diabetes Forever! Life…3 Weeks Take Only Cloves And Say Goodbye To High…11 Surprising Health Benefits of Litchi Fruit
Home
Home Remedies
How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes!
Home Remedies
How to
How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes!
April 2, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
368
How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes
How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes: A fever is not a reason for huge concern until and unless it is very high. You don’t have to rush to a doctor every time your child has fever.
First of all it is important to understand that why your child has fever. Fever usually results from the body defense mechanism against some sort of infection.
When the body temperature is high it produces more white blood cells which defend the body against the infection and stop the growth of the pathogen.
You need to contact a doctor in following cases:
If your child has fever which is more that 101 degrees
If the child is younger than three months
If there are other symptoms such as skin
discoloration and trouble in breathing accompanied by fever.
If the fever lasts for more than three days
Here are some home remedies that can help in reducing the fever in children:
1. Giving Ginger Bath:
Ginger has powerful anti-oxidant properties which can effectively kill the bacteria responsible for causing fever in children.
With ginger bath, you child will sweat a lot that will eventually remove the toxins and body heat.
Here is what you need to do:
Fill a bath tub with warm water
Add two tablespoons of dry ginger powder in the warm water and stir well.
Make your child sit in the warm water for 10 minutes
Pat him dry after bath.
While giving ginger bath to your child, make sure that the water doesn’t make any contact with the child’s eyes.
[Also Read: 9 Reasons You Should Drink Ginger Juice in the Morning ]
2. Give your Child some Chamomile Tea:
Chamomile Tea is the most effective home remedy to get rid of fever in small children.
You can make some tea and give it to your child in regular intervals. Here is the recipe to Chamomile tea:
Boil some water in a pan
Add few chamomile leaves and let them steep
Strain the tea and add a little honey to it
Make your child sip on this tea in small amounts 2-3 times a day.
[Also Read: How to Stop Bedwetting Naturally in 7 days]
3. Raisins:
Raisins are abundant in anti-bacterial and anti-oxidant properties. They can help in getting rid of the fever by fighting the infections.
Take a handful of raisins, some lemon juice and half a cup of distilled water.
Soak the raisins in the water for about an hour
Crush them in the water and strain the liquid
Add one tablespoon of lime juice to enhance the results
Give this tonic to your child 3-4 times a day.
4. Rub an Onion:
Onion can effectively reduce the body temperature and get rid of body ache during the fever. The method is very simple and is quite popular among Indian mothers.
You just need to slice an onion into two pieces and rub them into your child’s feet for a couple of minutes.
Repeat the method 2-3 times a day and you will surely see a decrease in your child’s body temperature.
[Also Read: Eat Honey Mixed With Onions, This Will Happen To Your Body]
5. Apple Cider Vinegar Bath:
A lukewarm bath with apple cider vinegar can bring down a high temperature almost immediately. This remedy has been popular to cure fever since decades.
Apple cider vinegar has anti-bacterial, anti-fungal and anti-oxidant properties which can quickly eradicate the harmful pathogen responsible for causing fever in your child.
[Also Read: Soak Your Feet In Apple Cider Vinegar. The Results Will Amaze You]
6. Honey and Lemon Juice:
Lemon is packed with Vitamin C that boosts the body’s immune system and helps it in fighting of the infection.
And, honey will give the required nourishment to your child during fever. A combination of these two wonder foods will help in bringing down the fever effectively.
Take one tablespoon of honey and add one tablespoon of lemon juice to it.
Mix it well and feed it to your child twice a day.
7. Mustard Oil Massage:
Mustard oil is used in every Indian household because of it many health benefits. Along with some garlic,it can do wonders to cure your child’s fever.
Take some mustard oil in a pan and set it on heat
Once the oil is warm enough, switch off the flame
Now add 2-3 garlic cloves and let it sit in the oil for half an hour
Strain the oil and use it to massage on your child’s chest, feet and palms
This oil will help in getting rid of body toxins and reduce pain too.
Let’s see some other quick remedies that you can try as well for your child:
Use egg white on your child’s feet which can help in reducing the body temperature.
During fever, your child can also suffer from dehydration which is a very common side effect. As your child sweats profusely and loses important minerals from the body, it is important that you give your child enough fluids throughout the day to compensate the lost electrolytes. Keep giving some healthy homemade soups enriched with herbs to your child in regular intervals.
Feed your child in regular intervals and make sure that the diet is rich in protein, fiber and fluid.
Make sure that you keep a cool and damp wash cloth on your child’s forehead while he rests to keep the body temperature down. Cold compress in known to reduce fever in children and even toddlers.
Dress your child in light clothing to facilitate the loss of body heat.
You can also include coconut oil in your child’s food because it has antibacterial and antiviral properties which can be effective against the infection
If your child has cold along with fever, you can try giving him steam bath which can help in removal of mucus that is responsible for the fever.
At last, it is important that you child gets adequate rest so that the body can dedicate the energy to healing.
Conclusion:
Home remedies to reduce fever in your child are better when compared to using allopathic medicines as they do not have any side effects.
However, if you observe any other symptoms along with fever, do not wait to consult a doctor.
Post Views: 368
Comments
comments
Fever in Children
how to reduce fever in child naturally
How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes!
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Powerful Recipe That Will Cleanse Your Lungs in 3 days, Especially If You are a Smoker!
Next Next post: Japanese Water: The Key To Burn All the Fat From the Waist, Back And Thighs!
Share this post
twitter
facebook
whatsapp
google+
linkedin
pinterest
email
redditreddit
You may also like...
Home Remedies
10 Warning Signs Your Heart is Not Working Properly
10 Warning Signs Your Heart is Not Working Properly: Thousands of people die every year causes heart-related diseases or heart…
October 16, 2018
Author Sandra Canez
2726
Home Remedies
How to
How to Get Rid of Dark Neck with 10 Home Remedies
How to Get Rid of Dark Neck with 10 Home Remedies: Are you facing embarrassing situation due to your dark…
June 23, 2018
Author Sandra Canez
9532
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
All Time Best
Latest Home Remedies
﻿Take this Remedy and you will Eliminate Diabetes Forever! Life well Lived
April 18, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
Japanese Water: The Key To Burn All the Fat From the Waist, Back And Thighs!
April 8, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
How to Reduce Fever in Children within 2 minutes!
April 2, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
Powerful Recipe That Will Cleanse Your Lungs in 3 days, Especially If You are a Smoker!
March 29, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
Say Goodbye To Cough Phlegm, Flu, and Clean The Lungs Forever With This Old Recipe!
March 16, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
Before Bedtime, Drink Apple Cider Vinegar and Your Life Will Completely Change!
March 12, 2019
Author Sandra Canez
Related Query
Most Popular Posts
17 Everyday Things You Didn’t Know are Slowly Killing You (10,062)
Kill Thyroid Forever with Coriander Seeds in just 8 days (7,117)
What Happens when you eliminate sugar from your diet for a week (6,401)
Cancer Dies When You Start Eating These 10 Foods Immediately (5,377)
How to Cure High Blood Pressure Quickly in 7 Days (4,480)
How to Cure Piles Permanently at Home in 3 days (4,267)
Also Read
Right remedies at your finger tips.
Contact us:
righthomeremedies@gmail.com
Quick Links
About us
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Follow Us
facebook
google plus
youtube
© 2018 Right Home Remedies. All rights reserved.
Powered By ALiGNWEBS
scroll to top