Zinc Chelated Advanced Patient Information - Drugs.com
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Drugs A to Z
Zinc Chelated
Print Share
Zinc Chelated
Generic Name: zinc supplement (Oral route, Parenteral route)
Commonly used brand name(s)
In the U.S.
Galzin
M2 Zinc 50
Orazinc 110
Orazinc 220
Zinc-220
Zinc Chelated
Zn Plus Protein
In Canada
Prostavan
Available Dosage Forms:
Tablet
Capsule
Uses For Zinc Chelated
Zinc supplements are used to prevent or treat zinc deficiency.
The body needs zinc for normal growth and health. For patients who are unable to get enough zinc in their regular diet or who have a need for more zinc, zinc supplements may be necessary. They are generally taken by mouth but some patients may have to receive them by injection.
Zinc supplements may be used for other conditions as determined by your health care professional.
Lack of zinc may lead to poor night vision and wound-healing, a decrease in sense of taste and smell, a reduced ability to fight infections, and poor development of reproductive organs.
Acrodermatitis enteropathica (a lack of absorption of zinc from the intestine)
Alcoholism
Burns
Type 2 diabetes mellitus
Down's syndrome
Eating disorders
Intestine diseases
Infections (continuing or chronic)
Kidney disease
Liver disease
Pancreas disease
Sickle cell disease
Skin disorders
Stomach removal
Stress (continuing)
Thalassemia
Trauma (prolonged)
In addition, premature infants may need additional zinc.
Increased need for zinc should be determined by your health care professional.
Claims that zinc is effective in preventing vision loss in the elderly have not been proven. Zinc has not been proven effective in the treatment of porphyria.
Injectable zinc is given by or under the supervision of a health care professional. Other forms of zinc are available without a prescription.
Importance of Diet
For good health, it is important that you eat a balanced and varied diet. Follow carefully any diet program your health care professional may recommend. For your specific dietary vitamin and/or mineral needs, ask your health care professional for a list of appropriate foods. If you think that you are not getting enough vitamins and/or minerals in your diet, you may choose to take a dietary supplement.
Zinc is found in various foods, including lean red meats, seafood (especially herring and oysters), peas, and beans. Zinc is also found in whole grains; however, large amounts of whole-grains have been found to decrease the amount of zinc that is absorbed. Additional zinc may be added to the diet through treated (galvanized) cookware. Foods stored in uncoated tin cans may cause less zinc to be available for absorption from food.
The daily amount of zinc needed is defined in several different ways.
For U.S.—
Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are the amount of vitamins and minerals needed to provide for adequate nutrition in most healthy persons. RDAs for a given nutrient may vary depending on a person's age, sex, and physical condition (e.g., pregnancy).
Daily Values (DVs) are used on food and dietary supplement labels to indicate the percent of the recommended daily amount of each nutrient that a serving provides. DV replaces the previous designation of United States Recommended Daily Allowances (USRDAs).
For Canada—
Recommended Nutrient Intakes (RNIs) are used to determine the amounts of vitamins, minerals, and protein needed to provide adequate nutrition and lessen the risk of chronic disease.
Normal daily recommended intakes in milligrams (mg) for zinc are generally defined as follows:
Persons U.S. (mg) Canada (mg)
Infants and children birth to
3 years of age 5–10 2–4
Children 4 to 6 years of age 10 5
Children 7 to 10 years of age 10 7–9
Adolescent and adult males 15 9–12
Adolescent and adult females 12 9
Pregnant females 15 15
Breast-feeding females 16–19 15
Before Using Zinc Chelated
If you are taking a dietary supplement without a prescription, carefully read and follow any precautions on the label. For these supplements, the following should be considered:
Allergies
Tell your doctor if you have ever had any unusual or allergic reaction to medicines in this group or any other medicines. Also tell your health care professional if you have any other types of allergies, such as to foods dyes, preservatives, or animals. For non-prescription products, read the label or package ingredients carefully.
Pediatric
Problems in children have not been reported with intake of normal daily recommended amounts.
Geriatric
Problems in older adults have not been reported with intake of normal daily recommended amounts. There is some evidence that the elderly may be at risk of becoming deficient in zinc due to poor food selection, decreased absorption of zinc by the body, or medicines that decrease absorption of zinc or increase loss of zinc from the body.
Pregnancy
It is especially important that you are receiving enough vitamins and minerals when you become pregnant and that you continue to receive the right amount of vitamins and minerals throughout your pregnancy. The healthy growth and development of the fetus depend on a steady supply of nutrients from the mother. There is evidence that low blood levels of zinc may lead to problems in pregnancy or defects in the baby. However, taking large amounts of a dietary supplement in pregnancy may be harmful to the mother and/or fetus and should be avoided.
Breast Feeding
It is important that you receive the right amounts of vitamins and minerals so that your baby will also get the vitamins and minerals needed to grow properly. However, taking large amounts of a dietary supplement while breast-feeding may be harmful to the mother and/or baby and should be avoided.
Interactions with Medicines
Although certain medicines should not be used together at all, in other cases two different medicines may be used together even if an interaction might occur. In these cases, your doctor may want to change the dose, or other precautions may be necessary. When you are taking any of these dietary supplements, it is especially important that your healthcare professional know if you are taking any of the medicines listed below. The following interactions have been selected on the basis of their potential significance and are not necessarily all-inclusive.
Using dietary supplements in this class with any of the following medicines is usually not recommended, but may be required in some cases. If both medicines are prescribed together, your doctor may change the dose or how often you use one or both of the medicines.
Amygdalin
Bictegravir
Deferoxamine
Dolutegravir
Eltrombopag
Interactions with Food/Tobacco/Alcohol
Certain medicines should not be used at or around the time of eating food or eating certain types of food since interactions may occur. Using alcohol or tobacco with certain medicines may also cause interactions to occur. Discuss with your healthcare professional the use of your medicine with food, alcohol, or tobacco.
Other Medical Problems
The presence of other medical problems may affect the use of dietary supplements in this class. Make sure you tell your doctor if you have any other medical problems, especially:
Copper deficiency—Zinc supplements may make this condition worse.
Proper Use of zinc supplement
This section provides information on the proper use of a number of products that contain zinc supplement. It may not be specific to Zinc Chelated. Please read with care.
Zinc supplements are most effective if they are taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals. However, if zinc supplements cause stomach upset, they may be taken with a meal. You should tell your health care professional if you are taking your zinc supplement with meals.
Dosing
The dose medicines in this class will be different for different patients. Follow your doctor's orders or the directions on the label. The following information includes only the average doses of these medicines. If your dose is different, do not change it unless your doctor tells you to do so.
The amount of medicine that you take depends on the strength of the medicine. Also, the number of doses you take each day, the time allowed between doses, and the length of time you take the medicine depend on the medical problem for which you are using the medicine.
For oral dosage forms (capsules, lozenges, tablets, extended-release tablets):
To prevent deficiency, the amount taken by mouth is based on normal daily recommended intakes (Note that the normal daily recommended intakes are expressed as an actual amount of zinc. The dosage form [e.g., zinc gluconate, zinc sulfate] has a different strength):
For the U.S
Adult and teenage males—15 milligrams (mg) per day.
Adult and teenage females—12 mg per day.
Pregnant females—15 mg per day.
Breast-feeding females—16 to 19 mg per day.
Children 4 to 10 years of age—10 mg per day.
Children birth to 3 years of age—5 to 10 mg per day.
For Canada
Adult and teenage males—9 to 12 mg per day.
Adult and teenage females—9 mg per day.
Pregnant females—15 mg per day.
Breast-feeding females—15 mg per day.
Children 7 to 10 years of age—7 to 9 mg per day.
Children 4 to 6 years of age—5 mg per day.
Children birth to 3 years of age—2 to 4 mg per day.
To treat deficiency:
Adults, teenagers, and children—Treatment dose is determined by prescriber for each individual based on severity of deficiency.
Missed Dose
If you miss a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not double doses.
If you miss taking zinc supplements for one or more days there is no cause for concern, since it takes some time for your body to become seriously low in zinc. However, if your health care professional has recommended that you take zinc, try to remember to take it as directed every day.
Storage
Keep out of the reach of children.
Store the medicine in a closed container at room temperature, away from heat, moisture, and direct light. Keep from freezing.
Do not keep outdated medicine or medicine no longer needed.
Precautions While Using Zinc Chelated
When zinc combines with certain foods it may not be absorbed into your body and it will do you no good. If you are taking zinc, the following foods should be avoided or taken 2 hours after you take zinc:
Bran
Fiber-containing foods
Phosphorus-containing foods such as milk or poultry
Whole-grain breads and cereals
Do not take zinc supplements and copper, iron, or phosphorus supplements at the same time. It is best to space doses of these products 2 hours apart, to get the full benefit from each dietary supplement.
Zinc Chelated Side Effects
Along with its needed effects, a dietary supplement may cause some unwanted effects. Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention.
Check with your doctor as soon as possible if any of the following side effects occur:
Rare
- With large doses
Chills
continuing ulcers or sores in mouth or throat
fever
heartburn
indigestion
nausea
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Symptoms of overdose
Chest pain
dizziness
fainting
shortness of breath
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Other side effects not listed may also occur in some patients. If you notice any other effects, check with your healthcare professional.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Further information
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Copyright 2018 Truven Health Analytics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Medical Disclaimer
Print this page
How to Prevent Deadly Drug Interactions
Some mixtures of medications can lead to serious and even fatal consequences.
Here are 9 ways to stay safe
Recently Approved
Balversa Balversa (erdafitinib) is a once-daily, oral, pan-fibroblast growth factor...
Evenity Evenity (romosozumab) is an anti-sclerostin monoclonal antibody for the...
Dovato Dovato (dolutegravir and lamivudine) is a once-daily, single-tablet, two-drug...
Asceniv Asceniv (immune globulin intravenous, human – slra) is a 10% immune globulin l...
More approvals
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide