Depression in Women - HelpGuide.org
Skip to content
Contact
Newsletter
Harvard Collaboration
Friends of HelpGuide
TwitterFacebookInstagramPinterest
Search for:
Your trusted guide to mental health & wellness
MENTAL HEALTH
ADHD
ADHD and School
ADHD in Children
ADHD in Adults
ADHD Medications
ADHD Parenting Tips
ADHD Tests and Diagnosis
Adult ADHD and Relationships
Teaching Students with ADHD
Tips for Managing Adult ADHD
Treatment for Adult ADHD
Treatment for Children with ADHD
Addiction
Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse
Drug Abuse and Addiction
Gambling Addiction and Problem Gambling
How to Quit Smoking
Overcoming Alcohol Addiction
Overcoming Drug Addiction
Smartphone Addiction
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Issues
Anxiety
Anxiety Disorders and Anxiety Attacks
Anxiety Medication
Cutting and Self-Harm
Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)
How to Stop Worrying
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
Panic Attacks and Panic Disorder
Phobias and Irrational Fears
Separation Anxiety and Separation Anxiety Disorder
Social Anxiety Disorder
Therapy for Anxiety Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Bipolar Disorder Signs and Symptoms
Bipolar Disorder Treatment
Bipolar Medication Guide
Helping Someone with Bipolar Disorder
Living with Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Antidepressant Medication
Coping with Depression
Depression in Men
Depression in Older Adults
Depression in Women
Depression Symptoms and Warning Signs
Depression Treatment
Helping Someone with Depression
Parent’s Guide to Teen Depression
Postpartum Depression and the Baby Blues
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)
Teenager’s Guide to Depression
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) Therapy
Eating Disorders
Anorexia Nervosa
Binge Eating Disorder
Bulimia Nervosa
Eating Disorder Treatment and Recovery
Helping Someone with an Eating Disorder
Grief & Loss
Coping with Grief and Loss
Coping with Losing a Pet
Dealing with a Breakup or Divorce
Helping Someone Who’s Grieving
Personality Disorders
Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD)
Helping Someone with Borderline Personality Disorder
Narcissistic Personality Disorder
PTSD & Trauma
Emotional and Psychological Trauma
Helping Children Cope with Trauma
Helping Someone with PTSD
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
PTSD in Military Veterans
Recovering from Rape and Sexual Trauma
Traumatic Stress
Schizophrenia
Helping Someone with Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Symptoms and Coping Tips
Schizophrenia Treatment and Self-Help
Stress
Burnout Prevention and Treatment
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Job Loss and Unemployment Stress
Quick Stress Relief
Relaxation Techniques
Stress and Your Health
Stress in the Workplace
Stress Management
Stress Symptoms, Signs, and Causes
Suicide Prevention
Are You Feeling Suicidal?
Suicide Prevention
HEALTHY LIVING
Diets & Weight Loss
Cancer Prevention Diet
Childhood Obesity and Weight Problems
Emotional Eating
Heart-Healthy Diet Tips
How to Lose Weight and Keep It Off
The Diabetes Diet
The Mediterranean Diet
Exercise & Fitness
How to Exercise if You Have Limited Mobility
How to Start Exercising and Stick to It
Senior Exercise and Fitness Tips
The Mental Health Benefits of Exercise
Nutrition
Calcium and Bone Health
Choosing Healthy Fats
Choosing Healthy Protein
Cooking at Home
Diet and Nutrition Tips for Women
Eating Well as You Age
Healthy Eating
Healthy Fast Food
Healthy Food for Kids
High-Fiber Foods
Organic Foods: What You Need to Know
Refined Carbs and Sugar: The Diet Saboteurs
Sleep
How to Sleep Better
How to Stop Snoring
Insomnia
Narcolepsy
Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS)
Sleep Apnea
Sleep Disorders and Problems
Sleep Needs
Sleeping Pills & Natural Sleep Aids
Sleep Tips for Older Adults
Therapy for Sleep Disorders
Stress
Burnout Prevention and Treatment
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Job Loss and Unemployment Stress
Quick Stress Relief
Relaxation Techniques
Stress and Your Health
Stress in the Workplace
Stress Management
Stress Symptoms, Signs, and Causes
Wellness
Building Better Mental Health
Cultivating Happiness
Emotional Intelligence Toolkit
Finding a Therapist Who Can Help You Heal
How to Improve Your Memory
Improving Emotional Intelligence (EQ)
Laughter is the Best Medicine
Living Well with a Disability
Mood-Boosting Power of Pets
The Benefits of Play for Adults
Volunteering and its Surprising Benefits
Work
Burnout Prevention and Treatment
Conflict Resolution Skills
Effective Communication
Finding the Right Career
Job Loss and Unemployment Stress
Job Networking Tips
Stress in the Workplace
Volunteering and its Surprising Benefits
CHILDREN & FAMILY
ADHD
ADHD and School
ADHD in Children
ADHD Medications
ADHD Parenting Tips
ADHD Tests and Diagnosis
Teaching Students with ADHD
Treatment for Children with ADHD
Autism
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Does My Child Have Autism?
Helping Your Child with Autism Thrive
Caregiving
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Family Caregiving
Hospice and Palliative Care
Late Stage and End-of-Life Care
Respite Care
Tips for Alzheimer’s Caregivers
Childhood Issues
Bullying and Cyberbullying
Child Abuse and Neglect
Childhood Obesity and Weight Problems
Children and Divorce
Reactive Attachment Disorder (RAD) and Other Attachment Issues
Separation Anxiety and Separation Anxiety Disorder
Learning Disabilities
Helping Children with Learning Disabilities
Learning Disabilities and Disorders
Parenting & Family
Blended Family and Step-Parenting Tips
Building a Secure Attachment Bond with Your Baby
Children and Divorce
Co-Parenting Tips for Divorced Parents
Creating Secure Infant Attachment
Grandparents Raising Grandchildren
What is Secure Attachment and Bonding?
When Your Baby Won’t Stop Crying
Teen Issues
Anorexia Nervosa
Binge Eating Disorder
Bulimia Nervosa
Bullying and Cyberbullying
Cutting and Self-Harm
Help for Parents of Troubled Teens
Parent’s Guide to Teen Depression
Smartphone Addiction
Teenager’s Guide to Depression
RELATIONSHIPS
Communication
Anger Management
Effective Communication
Conflict Resolution Skills
Managing Conflict with Humor
Nonverbal Communication
Domestic Abuse
Child Abuse and Neglect
Domestic Violence and Abuse
Elder Abuse and Neglect
Help for Men Who Are Being Abused
How to Get Out of an Abusive Relationship
Recovering from Rape and Sexual Trauma
Emotional Intelligence
Emotional Intelligence Toolkit
Improving Emotional Intelligence (EQ)
Love & Friendship
Dating Tips for Finding the Right Person
Dealing with Loneliness and Shyness
Making Good Friends
Relationship Help
Dealing with a Breakup or Divorce
AGING
Alzheimer’s Disease & Dementia
Age-Related Memory Loss
Alzheimer’s and Dementia Behavior Management
Alzheimer’s Disease
Dementia Symptoms, Types, and Causes
Preventing Alzheimer’s Disease
Tips for Alzheimer’s & Dementia Caregivers
Vascular Dementia
Caregiving
Adult Day Care Services
Alzheimer’s and Dementia Behavior Management
Caregiver Stress and Burnout
Family Caregiving
Home Care Services for Seniors
Hospice and Palliative Care
Late Stage and End-of-Life Care
Respite Care
Tips for Alzheimer’s & Dementia Caregivers
End of Life
Advanced Health Care Directives and Living Wills
Coping with Grief and Loss
Hospice and Palliative Care
Late Stage and End-of-Life Care
Saying Goodbye
When a Loved One is Terminally Ill
Healthy Aging
Age and Driving
Aging Well
Better Sex as You Age
Depression in Older Adults
Elder Abuse and Neglect
Grandparents Raising Grandchildren
How to Exercise if You Have Limited Mobility
How to Improve Your Memory
Living Well with a Disability
Senior Exercise and Fitness Tips
Senior Housing Options
Sleep Tips for Older Adults
Nutrition for Seniors
Calcium and Bone Health
Choosing Healthy Fats
Choosing Healthy Protein
Cooking at Home
Diet and Nutrition Tips for Women
Eating Well as You Age
Healthy Eating
Healthy Fast Food
High-Fiber Foods
Organic Foods: What You Need to Know
Refined Carbs and Sugar: The Diet Saboteurs
Senior Housing
Adult Day Care Services
A Guide to Nursing Homes
Assisted Living Facilities
Home Care Services for Seniors
Independent Living for Seniors
Senior Housing Options
ABOUT US
HelpGuide’s Story
Meet Our Team
Jeanne Segal, Ph.D.
DONATE
Search for:
Depression in WomenMelinda2019-04-01T16:47:13+00:00
PDF Version
Depression in Women
Signs, Symptoms, and How to Feel Better
Depression can drain you of energy and hope, leaving you feeling empty, sad, and helpless. And, for women, depression is complicated by many factors—from reproductive hormones and social pressures to the unique female response to stress. No matter how bleak things seem, though, there’s a lot you can do to change the way you think and feel. You can’t just will yourself to “snap out of it,” but you do have more control than you realize. By taking small but important steps, you can start to feel better and regain your drive, your sense of hope, and your enjoyment of life.
Understanding depression in women
While depression can impact every area of a woman’s life—including your physical health, social life, relationships, career, and sense of self-worth—it’s important to know that you’re not alone. Women are about twice as likely as men to suffer from depression but depression is treatable and there are plenty of things you can do to make yourself feel better.
Of course, the Catch-22 of depression is that feeling better requires action but taking action when you’re depressed is difficult. However, while you may not have much energy, you probably have enough to take a short walk around the block or pick up the phone to call a loved one, for example—and that can be a great start to boosting your mood and improving your outlook. It’s important to also learn about the factors that cause depression in women so you can tackle the condition head on, treat your depression most effectively, and help prevent it from coming back.
Signs and symptoms of depression in women
The symptoms of depression in women vary from mild to severe (major depression) and are distinguished by the impact they have on your ability to function. In addition to common symptoms of depression such depressed mood, lack of energy, loss of interest in activities you used to enjoy, difficulty concentrating, sleep and weight changes, and suicidal thoughts, women tend to experience certain depression symptoms more often than men. These include:
Depression in the winter months (seasonal affective disorder) due to lower levels of sunlight.
Symptoms of atypical depression, where rather than sleeping less, eating less, and losing weight, you experience the opposite: sleeping excessively, eating more (especially refined carbohydrates), and gaining weight.
Feelings of guilt associated with depression.
If you’re feeling suicidal…
Problems don’t seem temporary—they seem overwhelming and permanent. But if you reach out for help, you will feel better.
Read Are You Feeling Suicidal? or call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. For helplines outside the U.S., visit Befrienders Worldwide.
Causes of depression in women
Women report experiencing depression at much higher rates than men. This gender disparity may be explained by a number of social, biological, and hormonal factors that are specific to women.
The female physiological response to stress. Women produce more stress hormones than men, and the female sex hormone progesterone prevents the stress hormone system from turning itself off as it does in men. This can make women more susceptible to developing depression triggered by stress.
Body image issues which increase in girls during the sexual development of puberty may contribute to depression in adolescence.
Thyroid problems. Since hypothyroidism can cause depression, this medical problem should always be ruled out by a physician.
Medication side effects from birth control medication or hormone replacement therapy.
Premenstrual problems. Hormonal fluctuations during the menstrual cycle can cause the familiar symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), such as bloating, irritability, fatigue, and emotional reactivity. For some women, symptoms are severe and disabling and may warrant a diagnosis of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). PMDD is characterized by severe depression, irritability, and other mood disturbances beginning about 10 to 14 days before your period and improving within a few days of its start.
Pregnancy and infertility. The many hormonal changes that occur during pregnancy can contribute to depression, particularly in women already at high risk. Other issues relating to pregnancy such as miscarriage, unwanted pregnancy, and infertility can also play a role in depression.
Postpartum depression. It’s not uncommon for new mothers to experience the “baby blues.” This is a normal reaction that tends to subside within a few weeks. However, some women experience severe, lasting depression. This condition is called postpartum depression and is thought to be influenced, at least in part, by hormonal fluctuations.
Menopause and perimenopause. Women may be at increased risk for depression during perimenopause, the stage leading to menopause when reproductive hormones rapidly fluctuate. Women with past histories of depression are at an increased risk of depression during menopause as well.
Health problems. Chronic illness, injury, or disability can lead to depression in women, as can crash dieting or quitting smoking.
Other common causes of depression include:
Loneliness and isolation; a lack of social support.
Family history of depression.
Early childhood trauma or abuse.
Alcohol or drug abuse.
Marital or relationship problems; balancing the pressures of career and home life.
Family responsibilities such as caring for children, spouse, or aging parents.
Experiencing discrimination at work or not reaching important goals, losing or changing a job, retirement, or embarking on military service.
Persistent money problems.
Death of a loved one or other stressful life event that leaves you feeling useless, helpless, alone, or profoundly sad.
Compensating for biological and hormonal causes of depression
Because biology and hormone fluctuations can play such a prominent role in affecting a women’s depression, it may be helpful to make use of more coping strategies at hormonal low points during the month. Try keeping a log of where you are in your menstrual cycle and how you are feeling—physically and emotionally. This way you will be able to better anticipate when you need to compensate for the hormonal lows and reduce or avoid the resulting symptoms.
It is important to remember that depression, at any stage in life and for any reason, is serious and should be taken seriously. Just because you’ve been told that your symptoms are a “normal” part of being a woman does not mean you have to suffer in silence. There are many things you can do to treat your depression and feel better.
How to feel better tip 1: Reach out for social support
You can make a huge dent in your depression with simple but powerful self-help steps. Feeling better takes time and effort when you don’t feel like making an effort. But you can get there if you make positive choices for yourself each day and draw on the support of others.
Getting support from people who care about you plays an essential role in overcoming depression. On your own, it can be difficult to maintain a healthy perspective and sustain the effort required to beat depression. At the same time, the very nature of depression makes it difficult to reach out for help. When you’re depressed, the tendency is to withdraw and isolate, while an irritable mood brought on by depression can cause you to lash out over situations that wouldn’t normally bother you, further distancing you from others.
Ask for the help and support you need and share what you’re going through with the people you love and trust. You may have neglected your most treasured relationships, but they can get you through this tough time. If you don’t feel that you have anyone to confide in, you can find help to build new friendships—even if you’re shy or introverted.
How to reach out for support
Look for support from people who make you feel safe and cared for. The person you talk to doesn’t have to be able to fix you; they just need to be a good listener—someone who’ll listen attentively and compassionately without being distracted or judging you.
Make face-time a priority. Phone calls, social media, and texting are great ways to stay in touch, but they don’t replace good old-fashioned in-person quality time. The simple act of talking to someone face to face about how you feel can play a big role in relieving depression and keeping it away.
Try to keep up with social activities even if you don’t feel like it. Often when you’re depressed it feels more comfortable to retreat into your shell, but being around other people will make you feel less depressed.
Find ways to support others. It’s nice to receive support, but research shows you get an even bigger mood boost from providing support yourself. So, find ways—both big and small—to help others: volunteer, be a listening ear for a friend, do something nice for somebody.
Join a support group for depression. Being with others dealing with depression can go a long way in reducing your sense of isolation. You can also encourage each other, give and receive advice on how to cope, and share your experiences.
Tip 2: Support your health
In order to overcome depression, you have to do things that relax and energize you. This includes following a healthy lifestyle, learning how to better manage stress, setting limits on what you’re able to do, and scheduling fun activities into your day.
Aim for eight hours of sleep. Depression typically involves sleep problems; whether you’re sleeping too little or too much, your mood suffers. But you can get on a better sleep schedule by adopting healthy sleep habits.
Keep stress in check. Not only does stress prolong and worsen depression, but it can also trigger it. Figure out all the things in your life that stress you out, such as work overload, money problems, or unsupportive relationships, and find ways to relieve the pressure and regain control.
Practice relaxation techniques. A daily relaxation practice can help relieve symptoms of depression, reduce stress, and boost feelings of joy and well-being. Try yoga, deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, or meditation.
Care for a pet. While nothing can replace the human connection, pets can bring joy and companionship into your life and help you feel less isolated. Caring for a pet can also get you outside of yourself and give you a sense of being needed—both powerful antidotes to depression.
Do things you enjoy (or used to). While you can’t force yourself to have fun or experience pleasure, you can push yourself to do things, even when you don’t feel like it. Pick up a former hobby or a sport you used to like. Express yourself creatively through music, art, or writing. Go out with friends. Take a day trip to a museum, the mountains, or the ballpark.
Develop a “wellness toolbox” to deal with depression
Come up with a list of things that you can do for a quick mood boost. The more “tools” for coping with depression, the better. Try and implement a few of these ideas each day, even if you’re feeling good.
Spend some time in nature
List what you like about yourself
Read a good book
Watch a funny movie or TV show
Take a long, hot bath
Take care of a few small tasks
Play with a pet
Talk to friends or family face-to-face
Listen to music
Do something spontaneous
Tip 3: Get up and get moving
When you’re depressed, just getting out of bed can seem like a daunting task, let alone working out! But exercise is a powerful depression fighter—and one of the most important tools in your recovery arsenal.
Studies show that regular exercise can be as effective as antidepressant medication at increasing energy levels and decreasing feelings of fatigue. You don’t even have to hit the gym. A 30-minute walk each day will give you a much-needed boost. And if you can’t manage 30 minutes, three 10-minute bursts of movement throughout the day are just as effective.
Exercise is something you can do right now to boost your mood
Your fatigue will improve if you stick with it. Starting to exercise can be difficult when you’re depressed and feeling exhausted. But research shows that your energy levels will improve if you keep with it. Exercise will help you to feel energized and less fatigued, not more.
Find exercises that are continuous and rhythmic. The most benefits for depression come from rhythmic exercise—such as walking, weight training, swimming, martial arts, or dancing—where you move both your arms and legs.
Add a mindfulness element, especially if your depression is rooted in unresolved trauma or fed by obsessive, negative thoughts. Focus on how your body feels as you move—such as the sensation of your feet hitting the ground, or the feeling of the wind on your skin, or the rhythm of your breathing.
Pair up with an exercise partner. Not only does working out with others enable you to spend time socializing, it can also help to keep you motivated. Try joining a running club, taking a water aerobics or dance class, seeking out tennis partners, or enrolling in a soccer or volleyball league.
Take a dog for a walk. If don’t own a dog, you can volunteer to walk homeless dogs for an animal shelter or rescue group. You’ll not only be helping yourself but also be helping to socialize and exercise the dogs, making them more adoptable.
Tip 4: Eat a healthy, depression-fighting diet
What you eat has a direct impact on the way you feel. Some women find dietary modifications, nutritional supplements and herbal remedies can help aid in the relief of depression symptoms. These include:
Cutting back on salt, unhealthy fats, caffeine, sugar/refined carbs, and alcohol can help improve depression symptoms.
Not skipping meals. Going too long between meals can make you feel irritable and tired, so aim to eat something at least every three to four hours.
Boosting your B vitamins. Deficiencies in B vitamins such as folic acid and B-12 can trigger depression. To increase your intake, eat more citrus fruit, leafy greens, beans, chicken, and eggs. Vitamin B-6 along with calcium, magnesium, Vitamin E, and tryptophan have all been shown to benefit women suffering from PMDD.
Eating foods with Omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids play an essential role in stabilizing mood. The best sources are fatty fish such as salmon, herring, mackerel, anchovies, sardines, and tuna, or vegetarian options such as seaweed, flaxseed, and walnuts.
Making sure you’re getting enough iron. Low iron levels can produce common depression symptoms like irritability, fatigue, and difficulty concentrating. Iron rich foods to add to your diet include red meat, beans, leafy greens and dried fruit.
Adding herbal supplements may be helpful. Primrose oil and chaste tree berry have both been found to be effective in the treatment of PMDD.
Tip 5: Get a daily dose of sunlight
Sunlight can help boost serotonin levels and improve your mood. Aim for at least 15 minutes of sunlight a day. Remove sunglasses (but never stare directly at the sun) and use sunscreen as needed.
Take a walk on your lunch break, have your coffee outside, enjoy an al fresco meal, people-watch on a park bench, or spend time gardening.
Double up on the benefits of sunlight by exercising outside. Try hiking, walking in a local park, or playing golf or tennis with a friend.
Increase the amount of natural light in your home and workplace by opening blinds and drapes and sitting near windows.
If you live somewhere with little winter sunshine, try using a light therapy box.
Dealing with the winter blues
The reduced daylight hours of winter lead to a form of depression known as seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Women are diagnosed with SAD at four times the rate of men. SAD can make you feel like a completely different person to who you are in the summer: hopeless, sad, tense, or stressed, with no interest in friends or activities you normally love. No matter how bad you feel, though, there are plenty of things you can do to keep your mood stable throughout the year.
Tip 6: Challenge negative thinking
Depression puts a negative spin on everything, including the way you see yourself and your expectations for the future. When these types of thoughts overwhelm you, it’s important to remember that this is a symptom of your depression and these irrational, pessimistic attitudes—known as cognitive distortions—aren’t realistic.
Women also tend to ruminate when we’re depressed, perhaps spending hours trying to figure out why we’re feeling this way. However, rumination can maintain depression or even make it worse. You can’t break out of this pessimistic mind frame by just telling yourself to “think positive.” Often, it’s part of a lifelong pattern of thinking that’s become so automatic you’re not even completely aware of it.
You can develop a more balanced way of thinking by identifying the type of negative thoughts that are contributing to your depression, and then learning to replace them with a more balanced way of thinking.
Negative, unrealistic ways of thinking that fuel depression
All-or-nothing thinking – Looking at things in black-or-white categories, with no middle ground (“If I fall short of perfection, I’m a total failure.”)
Overgeneralization – Generalizing from a single negative experience, expecting it to hold true forever (“I can’t do anything right.”)
The mental filter – Ignoring positive events and focusing on the negative. Noticing the one thing that went wrong, rather than all the things that went right.
Diminishing the positive – Coming up with reasons why positive events don’t count (“She said she had a good time on our date, but I think she was just being nice.”)
Jumping to conclusions – Making negative interpretations without actual evidence. You act like a mind reader (“He must think I’m pathetic”) or a fortune teller (“I’ll be stuck in this dead-end job forever.”)
Emotional reasoning – Believing that the way you feel reflects reality (“I feel like such a loser. I really am no good!”)
‘Shoulds’ and ‘should-nots’ – Holding yourself to a strict list of what you should and shouldn’t do, and beating yourself up if you don’t live up to your rules.
Labeling – Classifying yourself based on mistakes and perceived shortcomings (“I’m a failure; an idiot; a loser.”)
Challenge your negative thinking
Once you identify the destructive thought patterns that contribute to your depression, you can start to challenge them with questions such as:
“What’s the evidence that this thought is true? Not true?”
“What would I tell a friend who had this thought?”
“Is there another way of looking at the situation or an alternate explanation?”
“How might I look at this situation if I didn’t have depression?”
As you cross-examine your negative thoughts, you may be surprised at how quickly they crumble. For example, the negative thought: “My boss hates me. He gave me this difficult report to complete,” could be replaced with: “My boss must have a lot of faith in me to give me so much responsibility.” In the process of challenging negative thoughts, you’ll develop a more balanced perspective and help to relieve your depression.
Get professional help if needed
If you don’t benefit sufficiently from self-help treatments, seek help from a mental health professional. While women suffering from depression respond to the same types of treatment as men, specific aspects of treatment are often modified for women. Women are also more likely to require simultaneous treatment for other conditions such as anxiety or eating disorders.
Therapy. Talk therapy is an extremely effective treatment for depression. It can provide you with the skills and insight to relieve depression symptoms and help prevent depression from coming back. One of the most important things to consider when choosing a therapist is your connection with this person. The right therapist will be a caring and supportive partner in your depression treatment and recovery.
Medication. Antidepressant medication may help relieve some symptoms of depression in women, but it won’t cure the underlying problem. Because of female biological differences, women are generally started on lower doses of antidepressants than men. Women are also more likely to experience side effects, so any medication use should be closely monitored. Don’t rely on a doctor who is not trained in mental health for guidance on medication, and remember that medication works best when you make healthy lifestyle changes as well.
Where to turn for help
In the U.S.: Find DBSA Chapters/Support Groups or call the NAMI Helpline for support and referrals at 1-800-950-6264
UK: Find Depression support groups in-person and online or call the Mind Infoline at 0300 123 3393
Australia: Find Support Groups and regional resources or call the SANE Help Centre at 1800 18 7263
Canada: Call Mood Disorders Society of Canada at 519-824-5565
India: Call the Vandrevala Foundation Helpline (India) at 1860 2662 345 or 1800 2333 330
Suicide prevention help
In the U.S.: Call National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255
UK and Ireland: Call Samaritans UK at 116 123
Australia: Call Lifeline Australia at 13 11 14
Other countries: Visit IASP or International Suicide Hotlines to find a helpline near you
Recommended reading
Understanding Depression – The many faces of depression and how to find relief. (Harvard Medical School Special Health Report)
Depression in women: Understanding the gender gap – The biological, psychosocial, and cultural factors that may increase a woman’s risk for depression. (Mayo Clinic)
PMS & PMDD – Premenstrual mood changes, including premenstrual dysphoric disorder. (Massachusetts General Hospital, Center for Women’s Health)
Depression During the Transition to Menopause: A Guide for Patients and Families (PDF) – Estrogen interacts with chemicals in the brain that can affect mood. (womensmentalhealth.org)
Antidepressants: Safe during pregnancy? – Risks of taking antidepressants during pregnancy. (Mayo Clinic)
Mood Disorders and Teenage Girls – Discusses why girls are more vulnerable to mood disorders and what signs and symptoms you should look for in adolescent girls. (Child Mind Institute)
Authors: Melinda Smith, M.A., Lawrence Robinson, Jennifer Shubin, and Jaelline Jaffe, Ph.D. Last updated: April 2019.
Related articles
Coping with Depression
Depression Symptoms and Warning Signs
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)
Depression in Older Adults
Share
Tweet
Pin
Email
Was this page helpful?
Related articles
Coping with Depression
Depression Symptoms and Warning Signs
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)
Depression in Older Adults
Was this page helpful?
Follow Us
DONATE
Contact Info
HelpGuide.org International
1250 6th St., Suite 400
Santa Monica, CA 90401
More
Friends of HelpGuide
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
About Us
Harvard Collaboration
Newsletter
Our content does not constitute a medical or psychological consultation. See a certified medical or mental health professional for diagnosis. Learn more.
© 1999-2019 HelpGuide.org. All rights reserved.
Was this page helpful?*
Yes
No
Please tell us how this page was helpful.*
How can we improve this page?*
Name
Email
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
X