Natural Ovarian Cyst Cures - Ovarian Cyst Treatment, Ovarian Cyst, Ovarian Cysts, Ovarian Cyst Relief, Ovarian Cyst Cause
ATTENTION: If you or someone you love is suffering from Ovarian Cysts, then this will be the most important letter you will ever read.
"Chronic Ovarian Cyst Sufferer Discovers Scientifically Proven Way To Reverse And Eliminate All Ovarian Cysts And PCOS Within 2 Months Naturally, And Finally Reveals The Unbelievably Easy, Step-By-Step Actions You Could Already Be Taking To Say Goodbye to Ovarian Cysts And PCOS Forever"
Discovery How Thousands Of Women Worldwide Instantly Relieve Their Constant Pain And Started Shrinking Their Ovarian Cyst Within 3 Days, Eliminating Them Completely Within 8 Short Weeks, All Without Ever Using Risky Drugs or Resorting To Surgery...Guaranteed!
Dear Ovarian Cyst Sufferer,
My Name is Laura Hennings and for 6 years I suffered with terrible ovarian cysts and incredible pain and it was ruining my life. I'm not a professional writer. But what I have to share with you is so extraordinary and so powerful, I decided to write you myself. So bare with me a little.
My battle with Ovarian Cysts started with dull pains that I got about two weeks before my period would start, which I ignored, dismissing it as simple menstrual cramps, but the pain kept getting worse. The pain was on my right side, my lower back and ran down my thighs.
After numerous visits to the doctor, I went for an ultrasound and two weeks later the doctor called me in to his office to tell me the bad news, "you have an ovarian cyst". Not only that, but it was the size of a walnut.
I had no one to turn to, so I followed the advice of my doctor who advised me to come back in 2 months to see if it gets any better. Unbelievable I thought, only to later find out that was the ONLY advice I should have listened to.
The pain varied from day to day and I found myself taking pain relievers by the handful. And sure enough, every month, few weeks before my period I would feel extreme pain, nausea and a rush of heat would came over me. Some days it hurt so badly I couldn't even go to work. The pain was draining and exhausting.
The Shocking Truth About How Often Conventional Treatment Fails And Leads To Risky And Often Unnecessary Surgery!
After becoming my doctor's lab rat, trying half a dozen prescription drugs including birth control pills to solve my problem, I found out my cysts had actually grown larger, now the size of a tennis ball! (The fact is, 95.6% of all women who treat their ovarian cyst conventionally end up worse than when they started! )
And to top it off, I couldn't sleep. Stressed and scared, thoughts of cancer ran through my head now that my pap smear return abnormal and I laid there every night, on my left side because the pain was unbearable any other way, worrying endlessly about the cyst growing on my ovary.
Months went by, I missed a period and the pain got worse, by now I knew the exact day I ovulated, that was the day the pain would be excruciating, I'd be on the floor in tears, my whole stomach felt like it was on fire and few days later it felt like someone had beaten me up I was so soar.
It was difficult getting by, I hid the pain from everyone, telling them I was fine, I didn't want to be a burden, but when I was alone I cried. The pain was getting so bad I had to take a few weeks off work. Then one day I felt a sharp, stabbing pain and immediately rushed to the hospital.
Everything my doctor told me made me feel worse, so I decided to find a new one, only to realize they were telling me the same thing. Every doctor I talked to said the same thing, "surgery is your only option". That's when it all started.
I Got So Frustrated With The Advice Of My Doctors I Decided To Find A Solution On My Own!
The first thing I did was to stop taking the birth control pills that I intuitively felt were unnatural.
I became obsessed with natural health and how to cure Ovarian Cysts and how to do it quickly - I've been absolutely consumed by this quest. So I started studying everything I could get my hands on! I bought every book on reproductive disorders, hormonal production, cancer, diet and nutrition.
I spent years swallowing stacks of books, scientific papers, medical reports, scientific journals and ground breaking studies from leading universities and advanced medical research institutions. I have literally read hundreds of medical books from cover to cover. At last count, my library contained 481 books and I have read every word almost to the point of memorizing them.
But reading wasn't enough. I've interview and studied the progress of countless ovarian cyst sufferers. I've also traveled the world to meet with leading medical doctors, university researchers, herbalists, homeopath's, naturopath's and more. Some, had secrets so shocking, they couldn't tell me what they knew "officially" for fear of losing their job!
The Surprising Truth About Ovarian Cyst Treatments
I have also tried every Ovarian Cyst treatment imaginable with conviction, desire and hope that it would finally eliminate my painful and scary Ovarian Cyst.
The vast majority of the treatments and so called cures simply didn't have any effect what so ever on my Ovarian Cysts and some actually made my Ovarian Cyst worse.
Moreover, medical books on Ovarian Cysts recommended taking prescription estrogen drugs, often birth control pills (which is hardly effective since low estrogen is not the problem).
None of these approaches work! I know because I tried them all and I still suffered from ovarian cysts!
I realized the hard way, that conventional treatments given by medical doctors don't work and often make your situation much, much worse. Prescription drugs and pain relievers may temporarily mask the symptoms, but the ovarian cyst will still be there and will most likely grow faster and lead to surgery.
Now, Thousands of Hard Working Hours Later, The Ovarian Cyst Puzzle Was Finally Solved...
After more than 3 years of costly in depth research and a lot of late nights, uncovering Ovarian Cyst secrets one by one and through a long process of trial and error and dozens of interviews and self experiments, I applied my years of training to finally uncover the solution to Ovarian Cysts.
From everything I've been through, all the suffering, every lie told by the medical industry, every failed treatment, every wrong answer, the Ovarian Cyst puzzle was finally solved. And when I applied what I had learned to myself, to my sheer amazement, after only 7 weeks of following it...
My Ovarian Cyst Completely DISAPPEARED!
After following the secrets I had learned, my cyst began to shrink rapidly until after only 7 short weeks my cyst were completely gone. I couldn't believe it, everything my doctor told me was wrong. My battle with ovarian cysts was over, for the first time in years. It took me years of dedicated research to discover what works and what doesn't.
Finally, after years of useless treatments, desperate trial and error, disappointments and suffering, the secrets I had uncovered came together to open the door to my new pain free, Ovarian Cyst free life.
I was so excited to see the constant, unbearable pain that I suffered with for so long was completely gone, my menstrual cycle become regular again and my worrisome ovarian cyst vanished. After years of suffering I was finally Free from my Ovarian cysts!
What Kind of Results Have Other Women Had With This Method?
I started testing my system on other Ovarian Cyst sufferers besides me and it yield the same shocking and groundbreaking results. In less than 8 weeks on average 23 out of 23 people participating in my experiment had completely got rid of their Ovarian Cyst.
Amazingly, everyone who used this method got the same results:
Their ovarian cysts shrunk rapidly
The unbearable pain was gone within a few short days
None of them had to go through the frightening surgery that was so easy for their doctors to recommend
No one who followed the program ever experience a single cyst again
Other unexpected benefits also occurred:
Everyone started losing weight almost effortlessly
Their menstrual cycles become more consistent
Their emotions become more balanced, and they felt happier and calmer
Their sex life improved
Other, unrelated illnesses started to reverse
What's even more incredible is that it works on almost all types of Ovarian Cysts, all levels of severity and with women of any age. So I took 5 months to polish and refine my discoveries to ensure it was easy to follow and produce almost miraculous results each and ever time.
This information has now been used by thousands of women, just like you, used to instantly relieve cyst pain and quickly eliminate their Ovarian Cyst and achieve permanent freedom naturally.
And the best news is... It's now available for you to try it!
See what others are saying:
Success Story #1: Elisa Miller
"my ovarian cyst was gone, completely gone, I couldn't believe it, but I could see it with my own eyes."
"I'm so glad I found this site and I want to share my story. About 6 months ago I started to feel sharp pains on my left side and after visting my doctor I found out I had an ovarian cyst. Because of its size 1.7 inches at the time, my doctor suggested I take birth control pills. What a mistake! 2 months later, on my second ultrasound I found out my cyst grew to 3.1. I was terrified when my doctor told me I would have to have surgery. When I got to my car it all set in and I started crying. My friend has ovarian cysts and had her ovary removed and I still haven't had children.
When I got home I was determined to find out more about ovarian cyst, when I stumbled across you site, and thank god I did. I read the whole book over the weekend and it all made sense to me for the first time. I immediately started the step by step program and stopped taking the birth control pills. 1 week later the pains were almost gone and I felt great! 11 weeks later I got another ultrasound and my ovarian cyst was gone, completely gone, I couldn't believe it, but I could see it with my own eyes.
I can't thank you enough, I just hope more women find out about this so I got these images from my doctor, I don't know if they will help. Thanks again."
Before After
Ultrasound September 07 Ultrasound December 07
3.1" Ovarian Cyst 11 Weeks After
Natural Treatment
Elisa Miller, Age 32, 3.1" Cyst (New York, USA)
Success Story #2: Carol J. Mccall
"my periods were normal again and the last time I saw my doctor she said my cysts were gone."
"I am only 19 years old and I have had cysts for almost 4 years now. There usually small but still very painful. At first my doctors told be a had nothing to worry about, but over time the pain got worse. My stomach and back hurt all the time.
I have been on almost every brand of birth control over the last 3 years, my doctors kept telling me there was nothing we could do but if it got over 2 inches we would have to operate. That's when I found your site. I look through all the information and I wondered if it actually worked. My doctor never mentioned this.
Anyway, I started following the program and within a week a felt great. After a few months my periods were normal again and the last time I saw my doctor she said my cysts were gone. I still couldn't believe it, I knew they were gone becuase I felt so good, I just couldn't believe it was this easy. Why doesn't everyone know this?
Thank you for your help..."
Carol J. Mccall, Age 19, 2.3" Cyst (Portland, OR, USA)
Success Story #3: Cheryl M. Bradley
"Now, 3 months later, my doctor says my cyst is gone. All I can say is Thank you, Thank you, Thank you!"
"Dear Laura, I wanted to thank you and share a bit of my story. I'm 43 years old and this will be my second time through ovarian cysts. My experience with my first cyst was exactly like you described and I ended up losing an ovary because of it.
I wish I had your information then. Although my surgery went well, the pain on my right side came back after a few short months. I was suffering once again and I managed the pain as best I could.
I knew I had to do something but it wasn't going to be surgery. I have heard the horror stories of hormone replacement therapy and there was no way I would lose my other ovary. A few days later a stumbled across your site. I had a feeling this was what I was looking for.
After going through your program, I realised you had explained my ovarian cyst experience exactly. I started following your program and within a few days I started feeling better. The pain started to fade. Not only that but I started to lose some unwanted weight and I haven't felt better in years. Now, 3 months later, my doctor says my cyst is gone. All I can say is Thank you, Thank you, Thank you!"
Cheryl M. Bradley, Age 38, 3.1" Cyst (London, UK)
When I Learned That Doctors And The Medical Industry Were Actually Making Your Ovarian Cysts Worse, I Was Madder Than A Swarm Of Hornets
One of the first thing my research discovered was that almost everyone is getting ripped off by the drug and pharmaceutical companies. The drug industry is run by greedy, money thieves that are getting rich by preying on your suffering.
The second thing I uncovered was that almost every doctor had been lied too with fake research and miss guided training. In fact, the methods your doctor has advised that you are using right now on your Ovarian Cyst may be severely damaging not only your reproductive and hormonal system, but your overall health.
Are You Curing Your Ovarian Cyst or Making It WORSE?
The most common treatment of prescribing birth control pills actually causes your cysts to grow bigger.
Unfortunately, thousands of women have already suffered through conventional ovarian cyst treatment. Many have undergone surgery only to find out that their ovarian cyst returned. What's worse is the health problems these women face after treatment because they didn't solve the root cause of their ovarian cyst.
Your ovaries and reproductive system is just too delicate for prescription drugs and surgery. You've heard the lawsuits against the drug companies and doctor malpractice all over the news. Prescription drugs and surgery are just not safe.
If You Don't Cure The Root Cause Of Ovarian Cysts, You Risk Being Able To Have Children
First, many women find it impossible to get pregnant while they have an ovarian cyst or what is sometimes called PCOS. Your body is smart enough to know that your internal environment is unsafe for a new baby and actually prevents you from becoming pregnant.
Many women struggled for years to get pregnant using conventional treatment only to be disappointed. Treating your ovarian cysts naturally is the ONLY way to restore your internal environment making it suitable for a healthy baby.
Second, it is a well know fact that some ovarian cysts become problematic if not treated. Not treating your ovarian cysts naturally will often lead to surgery, that's a fact.
Conventional treatment of ovarian cysts almost always leads to surgery. These surgeries are risky and unnecessary and sometime your doctor may decide to remove your ovary or your entire uterus, leaving you unable to bare children ever.
Ovarian Cysts Is A Message From Your Body Telling You Something Is WRONG Inside
Your body has a built in system to warn you something is wrong. Ovarian cysts and the pain they cause is a desperate alarm from your body telling you something is wrong inside.
Conventional treatments are designed to shut off your bodies warning alarm, the most dangerous part of muffling your natural alarm system is that what's wrong is almost always getting worse. It's as if your house is on fire and you are awakened by the fire alarm, but instead of calling the fire department, you just shut off the alarm and go back to sleep.
Your body is, in effect, telling you, "Hey! Wake Up! You have a problem!" By using drugs to muffle your body's alarm system, you are replying, "Shut up! Don't bother me!" The only way to cure your Ovarian Cysts is by working with your body.
When everything came together and I realised that your body is trying to send a message, along with what the medical industry was doing, I decided to stand up against the medical drug cartel and share my natural ovarian cyst system with other sufferers.
Now, for the first time ever, the same Ovarian Cyst system that has helped thousands of Ovarian Cyst sufferers all over the world to quickly and safely eliminate ovarian cysts and eliminate all the symptoms including the never ending pain is available to you in a single, jam-packed e-book:
Introducing...
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets
The Only Natural System In Existence That Will Teach You How To INSTANTLY Relieve Intense Pain And Quickly Achieve LASTING Ovarian Cyst Freedom!
The Natural Ovarian Cysts Relief Secrets is a downloadable book, jam-packed cover to cover with all the latest research on ovarian cysts and includes a step-by-step plan to eliminate ovarian cysts within weeks that anyone can follow.
Here Is A Small Sample Of What You'll Discover When You Download Your Copy Of The Natural Ovarian Cyst
Relief Secrets Today:
The secret step-by-step method used by thousands of women to start shrinking their cyst within days and eliminate almost all ovarian cysts within 8 weeks
SECRET#1: Discover the 1 critical factor that when eliminated reverses over 70% of all ovarian cysts (and almost all women do it)
A little known secret that restores hormonal balance using a 100% natural substance to eliminate virtually all other ovarian cysts
SECRET#7: A simple and shocking easy 15 minute treatment to eliminate ovarian cyst pain that works almost like magic
5 mistakes to avoid that almost everyone is guilty of, which instead of curing your Ovarian Cyst weakens and destroys your body's natural ability to relieve itself (and almost everybody's doing it!)
SECRET#11: The most powerful external anti-ovarian cyst secret weapon the drug industries hope you will never find out!
7 things you should know about the food you eat to reverse not only ovarian cysts but virtually all disease (ignore these and you'll be plagued with ovarian cysts forever)
An amazing discovery that balances your hormones that you should always use which alone is guaranteed to make dramatic impact on your Ovarian Cyst in a matter of days!
The dirty little ovarian cyst secrets that the medical industry doesn't want you to know about
Finally the complete and honest answer as to why you have Ovarian Cysts and why most people always seem to make their ovarian cyst worse and how you can GUARANTEE to eliminate it within 2 months
A recently revealed exercise that when done daily, dramatically decreases your chance of ovarian cyst complications
SECRET#16: What NEVER to do, even if your doctor tells you to
The unique, proven method that eliminates your cysts and restores a healthy, safe reproductive environment so you can get pregnant fast.
Why you'll never get the whole truth about Ovarian Cysts from almost any doctor (Even if they wanted to tell you, this is why they CAN'T!)
In less than 5 minutes, you can instantly relieve stress for good using 3 simple techniques anyone can do (a factor in Ovarian Cysts)
25 common household products to avoid that disturb your hormonal system and cause serious imbalance
A secret technique that enables your mind to shrink your ovarian cysts
SECRET#21: WARNING! Before you put on your makeup, make sure it doesn't contain this ingredient, a common factor of ovarian cysts
How to avoid unnecessary surgery and what to do if it's already scheduled (most doctors don't have the skill required to properly remove a cyst without damaging your ovary, make sure you ask these critical questions)
3 steps to cleanse your body of chemicals that act like hormones that may be causing your problem
Discover the truth about ovarian cancer and the real, shocking statistics
The secret method that balances your hormones to eliminate embarrassing, unwanted hair permanently!
Why Ovarian Cyst is a WARNING sign that something is wrong in your system and in some cases even a warning sign for much worse diseases and what you can learn from it and do about it
People call this technique "the best" because it relieves the root cause of ovarian cyst pain so you don't have to worry about when the pain will strike again
And many more secrets...
And believe me... this is just the tip of the iceberg! Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is so much more, it's a complete step-by-step system that quickly and safely eliminate your Ovarian Cyst and all the pain that comes with it, without risky drugs and without unnecessary surgery.
What Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets� System Can Do For You
The Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets system addresses the root cause of the problem, the reason your body has created a cyst, not just the symptom. By tackling true root cause using a natural, holistic approach that gives your body what it needs to dissolve your Ovarian Cyst safely and quickly eliminate all the pain. You'll finally enjoy Ovarian Cyst freedom and be able to...
Eradicate Ovarian Cysts safely without prescription drugs or risky surgery
Instantly, eliminate constant, throbbing, stabbing pain
Avoid risky and unnecessary surgery that can lead to other serious problems
Eliminate embarrassing, unwanted hair
Rebalance your internal environment to allow you to quickly get pregnant
Enhance your bodies hormonal system, regain consistent periods
Eliminate bloating, bladder pressure, and the full feeling in your stomach
End the radiating pain in your lower back and thighs
Fight PMS, mood swings and anxiety related to hormonal imbalance
Relieve breast tenderness and painful sex
Finally, You Can Eliminate Almost Every Type Of Ovarian Cyst, No Matter How Severe, Using This Powerful System RIGHT NOW To Get Instant Pain Relief And Quick, Natural Freedom From Your Ovarian Cysts!
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets powerful system works no matter what type of ovarian cyst you have, whether you suffer from one large cyst or multiple small cysts.
In fact, there is only one very rare exception, which is a particular form of dermoid cysts where hard formations are present such as bone and teeth. This rare type of cyst must be removed by surgery. If your doctor hasn't mentioned this then this system will work for you.
The Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets system include guidelines for customizing the principles outlined for your unique situation. These principles have been proven to work and are verified by thousands of Ovarian Cyst free women world wide. They work consistently, regardless of your age or lifestyle.
It doesn't matter what your current Ovarian Cyst condition is, when you decide that you won't make the same mistake that over 95% of women make by following the recommendations of their doctors, you could literally choose to be Ovarian Cyst free, right now by following the steps in Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets and avoid further pain, suffering and and most importantly, surgery.
But don't take my word for it...
Success Story #4: Sheryl Woodall
"This book is an absolute must for all ovarian cyst sufferers out there!"
"I've had functional ovarian cyst (follicular, corpus luteum, I'm not quite sure) for years. It all started when I was 33 when I noticed a little pain when I ovulated.
It was so mild, I brushed it off. As the months went by, the pain got worse. A week after my ultrasound the results were back, I had 2 ovarian cysts, 1 small and 1 large one.
My doctor prescribed birth control pills to suppress ovulation. Months went by and my pain was worse than ever. My doctor switched me to another brand of birth control and I didn't tolerate it very well. I had migraines, gastritis, moodiness etc. After many months, a colonoscopy, more ultrasounds, visits to the ER on the most painful days, every bad thought ran threw my head.
That's when I found your book. I read it that same night while lying in bed. As I went through each page, the book explained exactly what was happening to me, right from when I was diagnosed up to the day my doctor suggested surgery.
This book is an absolute must for all ovarian cyst sufferers. The natural way is so much more logical to me and works fast. After only 11 days the pain was almost gone. The bulge I have on my side is shrinking. I've trashed all the prescription drugs I had. How stupid was I to think conventional treatments can cure anything...using your natural system I feel like a new women.
THANK YOU, I'm feeling so much better."
Sheryl Woodall, Age 33, 4.2" Cyst (Austin, TX, USA)
Success Story #5: Ashley Marso
"I finally feel relieved my daughter won't have to suffer anymore."
"Hi Laura, I'm so grateful for all your help. My daughter suffered so long with painful ovarian cysts. I shared her pain and couldn't watch her suffer anymore. I looked everywhere for answers and we tried everything her doctor suggested, but nothing worked.
Thankfully, I found your site. Who would have believed all her pain and suffering could be eliminated by making a few simple changes. My daughter has been on your system for four weeks and not only did her pain completely vanish, she no longer misses any school. I finally feel relieved that my daughter won't have to suffer anymore. I cannot say THANK YOU enough! Why don't more doctors know about this method?" -
I want to thank you again from the bottom of my heart and you can use this testimonial on your site if you like."
Ashley Marso, Age 17, 1.8" Recurring Cyst (Vancouver, Canada)
Success Story #6: Jennifer Hall
"It's only been a few days and I already seeing great improvement over my ovarian cyst pain."
"I already reached menopause and wasn't sure if this program would help me. I was diagnosed with a complex cyst and I was terrified.
I suffered for months taking dozens of different prescription drugs that made me feel worse. I knew deep inside that this is not the way. As soon as I decided that, I ordered your program the results as you know were nothing short of incredible. I found your program just in time. One week after reading your book, my doctor told me I needed surgery. Your book and support gave me the confidence to try your natural treatment.
I'm happy to say I'm finally free of the constant, unbearable pain and I just got back from the doctors office where he showed me the result of my ultrasound. My cyst was almost gone, my doctor asked if I was doing anything different and I told him about your program. He look sceptical but the results speak for them self.
Laura, I want to thank you for sharing this miracle program I really hope everyone women finds this information, it's invaluable. It explained the true cause of ovarian cyst and provided a simple, step by step system to follow.
I am forever grateful."
Jennifer Hall, Age 43, 3.7" Complex Cyst (California, USA)
It's Not Right for Women To Be Mislead By The Medical Industry, This Has To Be Stopped!
The simple truth is this, the pharmaceutical companies and medical industry are the main problem. They've falsely educated doctors to prescribe drugs which in fact, actually make your cyst grow bigger.
As common with many other illnesses today, the methods and drugs prescribed actually make your situation worse and make the profits of the drug companies go through the roof. Let's talk about the money they'll make if you don't treat your Ovarian Cyst naturally for a moment.
First, as soon as your diagnosed your doctor will probably recommend some prescription drugs to help your symptoms such as birth control pills. And don't forget all the pain relievers you'll be taking while your cyst grows.
Eventually, this will lead to surgery, which will make a lot of money for your doctor, the hospital and the drug companies. And not only do they make money of the surgery, they also profit from all the complications you'll encounter from taking all the side effect loaded drugs you've been prescribed.
The Conventional Ovarian Cyst Treatment Most Women Are Using DON'T WORK! 95.6% of All Women Who Treat Their Ovarian Cyst Conventionally End Up WORSE Than When They Started!
For many years I've researched and tracked the results of conventional treatments. What I found early on is that almost all women who followed the conventional treatment end up with a larger, more painful cyst that always led to risky, unnecessary surgery.
Those that complete surgery often experience another cyst because they failed to resolve the root cause of the problem.
The truth is: the conventional methods don't work and they are more dangerous than ever before and will make your Ovarian Cyst and your health much, much worse! Why?
Because It's Virtually Impossible To Cure Ovarian Cyst The Way Most Women Are Trying To Do It
If you've suffered for a long time, trying to rid yourself of Ovarian Cyst with the help of your doctor, like most sufferers you've probably been frustrated and disappointed with the results. Most likely your condition is getting worst, because the methods they've advised couldn't possible work! And the worst part is that conventional treatment damages your body and screws up your hormones leading to more pain and much scarier health issues.
Ovarian cysts start from the inside and can only be treated and cured by your own body. If you continue to follow the conventional practice of taking estrogen, often in the form of birth control pills, you are literally putting your health on the line and you will never get rid of your Ovarian Cyst (Unless they surgically remove it, though it's highly likely it will return).
You see, most people who fail to resolve their Ovarian Cyst are simply repeating the same mistake that thousands of other women have made.
Lack of estrogen and other prescription drugs are not the problem, in fact, taking estrogen causes your ovarian cyst to grow larger and faster and become even more painful.
For you to finally feel relief from Ovarian Cysts, you need to help your body by addressing the root cause of Ovarian Cysts so that they dissolve naturally, never to return.
Life is Too Short to Suffer Needlessly with Ovarian Cysts. Take Charge Over Your Ovarian Cyst Right Now And Follow a Proven Step-By-Step System!
Why suffer with the constant pain and eventual surgery recommended by conventional treatments when you can read the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets book and follow the practical step-by-step ovarian cyst freedom techniques that took me years to develop?
By applying the "insider's secrets" in this book you literally short cut your success! Not to mention save yourself thousands upon thousands of dollars in the process, especially if you're not insured for the prescription drugs and eventual surgery. The methods outlined in the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets System are methods most people NEVER discover on their own.
You life should be Ovarian Cyst free. Why risk your health and suffer needlessly? Take Charge Of Your Ovarian Cysts Naturally Right Now And Follow This System!
Success Story #7: Mulan Tseng
"your treatment program has worked wonders for me...I'm finally pragnate!"
"Hi Laura, your book is a very informative resource for women suffering with ovarian cysts. It is obvious that you are passionate about treating ovarian cysts and helping people get the relief they diserve.
When I started reading your book, I had been trying to get pregnate for a year and 1/2 but my doctor told me it would be difficult with my ovarian cysts. I tried everything I could, but nothing worked. I felt completely miserable.
Then I found your book. I wasn't sure if it would work but I decided to buy it anyway. Thank god I did! I also learned a lot of new information about my hormonal system and overall health that I now apply in my life and is giving me tremendous results.
I just wanted to thank you for the ebook. I'm so glad I took a chance and downloaded it, your treatment program has worked wonders for me. Not only as far as my ovarian cyst is concerned, but I'm finally pragnate!
I cannot thank you enough..."
Mulan Tseng, Age 31, 2.8" Cyst (Seattle, WA, USA)
Success Story #8: Lydia A. Hopkins
"I'm now back to normal and my doctor can't believe that my cyst is gone."
"Dear Laura, Thanks so much for your book. I've struggled with ovarian cysts for quite some time. I followed your suggestions as close as I could. I'm now back to normal and my doctor can't believe that my cyst is gone. I can't thank you enough for the inexpensive, yet, effective methods in your book.
Sincerely,"
Lydia A. Hopkins, Age 27 (Cambridge, UK)
Success Story #9: Anika Hadley
"My last ultrasound showed my cyst was gone!"
"Dear Laura, It's been almost a six months since my doctor first diagnosed me with ovarian cysts. One of my friends had ovarian cysts before, but I didn't realise how painful they really were.
I was already taking birth control pills so my doctor suggested increasing the dose. Months went by and nothing changed. Then I found your book.
Since I started your program, it's been like a miracle. Within a week I started to feel great and the pain started going away. My last ultrasound showed my cyst was gone! I feel so great now and I would have never believed there was a natural solution for my problems, if I was told a year ago.
I wish everybody know about this method. There are so many hopeless women out there with ovarian cysts. I will recommend this remarkable program to all my friends.
Thank you!"
Anika Hadley, , Age 28, 4.1" Cyst (Georgia, USA)
Success Story #10: Mary Modzelewski
"I can say that I am now cyst free, thank you."
"Thank you, thank you. I suffered from ovarian cysts and my only option was surgery until I read your book. I highly recommend this book to anyone searching for answers, it saved me from my worrisome surgery. I can say that I am now cyst free, thank you.
Thank you and God bless!"
Mary Modzelewski, Age 36 (Melbourne, Australia)
Why This System Works Where
Conventional Treatments Fail?
Good question and you are right if you asked it. After all, with everything your doctor has told you about how to treat this, why should you choose this program over the conventional way and why is it so different from what your doctor recommends?
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets has already helped thousands of women become cyst free
Conventional treatments such as estrogen drugs or surgical removal are not Ovarian Cyst cures. Prescription drugs contain unnatural harmful substances that don't work and will most likely make your situation worse. Even surgery doesn't address the root cause, most women experience additional ovarian cyst, often within 6 months. Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is a 100% natural, safe, and powerful treatment that permanently eliminates the ROOT cause of your Ovarian Cyst. This information has already successfully helped thousands of former Ovarian Cyst suffers safely become Cyst Free within a short few weeks.
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is a natural solution
Curing Ovarian Cysts with conventional treatments is extremely rare, doctors continue to focus on the symptoms and not the root cause. Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets tackles the root cause responsible for Ovarian Cyst formation. Conventional treatments focus on unnaturally hormone therapy focusing on estrogen. That approach just doesn't work! I know because I tried it.
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is a safe solution
Unlike conventional treatments, Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets doesn't rely on harsh, side effect causing, synthetic hormones that harm your body. Also, Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets avoids the risky and unnecessary surgery often recommended by conventional treatment. Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is 100% natural and has been used by thousand and thousands of women. It helps your body rebalance and dissolve your cyst on its own with 8 weeks.
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is easy to use and understand
If it's too hard to follow, what's the use. Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief is written in a concise, plain English, in a step-by-step manner which is easy to understand and follow.
Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets offers free private counseling
The Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets system offers FREE private support with me. I've spent years researching Ovarian Cysts and you can email me and I will work with you to help you eliminate your Ovarian Cyst. I will spend as much time as is necessary to help you.
I Will Take You By The Hand and Teach You The Proven Strategies and Secrets That Allowed Me And Thousands of Others to Achieve Rapid Ovarian Cyst Freedom
When I discovered how to relieve ovarian cyst naturally I wanted to share it with everyone. So I wrote the book "Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets". In my e-book I explain all of the secrets I discovered, every single one of them!
My e-book lays out a step-by-step treatment that can immediately begin shrinking your cyst by treating the root cause. You will be free, once and for all from the misery and pain of ovarian cysts.
I have been though all the pain and discomfort...the stress and frustration. You may take estrogen but eventually it only makes your Ovarian Cysts worse. You may try another drugs to shrink your cysts and relieve the pain, you take pain relievers just to get by. Conventional treatment doesn't cure it, at best it temporarily delays surgery.
My book takes you by the hand and guides you with plain, simple English, informative diagrams and pictures. I have tested, re-tested and perfected the key elements that add up to success in eliminating ovarian cysts.
I've done the research work for you. I've collected all the secrets into an easy to read e-book. And I can't wait to share it with you.
Success Story #11: Donna Mercer
"I'm no ovarian cyst free, I couldn't believe it was so easy... "
"When I first found this site I wasn't sure if it was right for me, so I continue with my birth control pills. 2 months later the had severe pains and fullness sensation just below my stomach. I was in pain all the time, even at work. I just couldn't stand it anymore!
Lucky I found this site again and order this book right away. Before I tried this I didn't believe natural methods worked. I'm now ovarian cyst free, I couldn't believe it was so easy, get this program now, it's worth every penny. Thanks Again.
Thank you for being so supportive. God bless you!"
Donna Mercer, Age 32 (California, USA)
Success Story #12: Melina Navarro
"A must read for anyone suffering from ovarian cysts."
"I never realized how much I didn't know about ovarian cysts. I have battled ovarian cyst twice and I tried every remedy I could find.
This warm wonderful ebook told me everything I needed to know about ovarian cysts and the changes that were going on inside my body. Now I understand what was happening and how easy it was to eliminate my cyst without drugs or surgery. A must read for anyone suffering from ovarian cysts."
I started on the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets program in December and to my sheer amazement in just 1 week into the program the pain completely disappeared and so did the bloating I felt. I also sleep much better now. I feel so happy and finally free of all the pain. This program really works!"
Melina Navarro, Age 26, 2.7" Cyst (Toronto, ON, Canada)
Success Story #13: Eve J. Clarke
"I feel so much better now, I'm finally pain free and my cyst has shrunk completely."
"Just a quick note to you guys to say that your stuff really works. It took me a while to get though the whole book and put things into practice but I wish I'd done it earlier! I feel so much better now, I'm finally pain free and my cysts has shrunk completely.
This is information everyone woman should know. It's unbelievable that relief from ovarian cysts could be so easy. I am outraged at the medical industry. Thank you for opening my eyes."
Eve J. Clarke, Age 25, 2.2" Cyst (Nova Scotia, Canada)
Success Story #14: Sophia Davey
"If you are dealing with ovarian cysts, get this course today! "
"Laura, I wanted to add my success story with using this amazing course. When I first ordered your book, I skimmed through it but still followed the advice of my doctor and ended up have surgery. I didn't use your method so I returned the book. My money was refund immediately, just like you said you would.
A few months went by and to my surprise, the pain returned. I when back to my doctor and he found another cyst on my other ovary. I thought my problems were solved, not so and the pain was getting worse. I went back to the copy I bought and read it cover to cover this time. I decided to follow your recommendation since the drugs and surgery obviously didn't cure my cysts.
A few weeks went by and the pain was gone. A month and half later a got another ultrasound and my cyst was gone! It's been over 6 months and I haven't had any other problems.
I felt guilty for returning your book, so I bought another copy. This book helped me understand the true root cause of ovarian cysts and what to do to easily correct the problem. If you are dealing with an ovarian cyst, get this course today!
Thank you"
Sophia Davey, Age 43, 2.7" Cyst (Sydney, Australia)
ORDER TODAY and you'll also receive the following
4 FREE bonuses worth AT LEAST $146.80!
BONUS #1 - Instant Ovarian Cysts Pain Relief - Quick Reference
A complete, quick reference guide to eliminating Ovarian Cyst pain instantly. An informative resource that is full of valuable information on how to naturally relieve Ovarian Cyst pain. Instant, targeted pain relief verified by thousands of Ovarian Cyst sufferers.
Value: $9.95 yours FREE
BONUS #2 - Balance Your Diet, Reclaim Your Health
An exclusive guide on choosing the right foods to eat everyday and which foods to avoid to naturally restore your internal balance. Learn how changing your diet can help you not only eliminate ovarian cysts, but virtually any disease.
Value: $39.95 yours FREE
BONUS #3 - 7 Steps To Natural PMS Relief
You'll learn exactly why you get out of balance, and step-by-step methods to restore your hormonal system. Proven strategies to free yourself from those dreaded PMS symptoms.
Value: $39.95 yours FREE
BONUS #4 - How To Eliminate Stress Using Simple Techniques Everyone Should Know
Eliminate stress FAST using advanced techniques that you can do anywhere including a simple breathing technique that eliminates health defeating stress within minutes.
Value: $29.95 yours FREE
SUPER BONUS
Free One-On-One Counseling With Laura Hennings For 3 Months
(Only A Few Spots Left!)
Yes, free unlimited personal one-on-one support, advice and guidance from a life-long medical researcher and health consultant are always just an email away.
I've spent years researching a cure for Ovarian Cysts and you can email me and I will work with you to help you eliminate your Ovarian Cyst. I will spend as much time as is necessary to help you.
Value: $197 yours FREE
Not only are you getting the full program when you order today (at an incredible price) but for a limited number of orders I will also be giving you my private email address. You will get unlimited one-to-one counseling from me should you request it. This offer, which is priced at $197, is absolutely free for a limited number of people today so or order soon.
So What's the Bottom Line? How Much Does This Complete Ovarian Cyst Freedom System Cost?
The Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets System is the only natural step-by-step system in existence that has been proven effective and it is, by far, the most comprehensive information you'll find anywhere.
The best news is that because there is no printing cost with e-books, this book is much less than it would be if you had to buy it in a bookstore. AND you get all this crucial information instantly, without waiting, you can begin shrinking your Ovarian Cyst right now for only $39!
You get the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets e-book, 4 valuable bonus books and the priceless private counselling with Laura Hennings - all for just $39. Yes, this is an incredible bargain any way you look at it, but this price won't last forever!
Don't wait to order at this low price! This promotion is being offer by our publisher for a limited time, very soon the price will be going up to $49.99. Remember, when you order you get FREE personal counseling with the author, but don't wait, there are only a few spots left and their going quick!
As soon as your complete your order on ClickBank's secure server, you gain immediate access to the download page, where you can discovery the powerful, life change information in the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets and bonus books. The e-book can be viewed on any computer and you can even print it out your very own hard copy.
Is it safe to order online? Absolutely! Our merchant processor, ClickBank, is the premier choice of legitimate businesses selling their products and services online. They have an excellent track record of safety and security for online purchases, without even one incidence in their operational history. ClickBanks's secured and approved merchant process is noted by a yellow lock at the bottom or top of the page during your order. Using the latest encrypting technology ensures a safe and secure transaction you can feel good about.
CLICK HERE TO ORDER
ONLY $49.97 (Limited Time Offer -- Now Only $39!)
Once you've read the entire book, cover to cover, you can begin following the simple, step-by-step system immediately! Everything is spelled out in plain English so you can take action today and be on your way to becoming Ovarian Cyst free.
You'll notice the first changes start to happen the very first week. Your pain will start fading away. Within weeks your Ovarian Cyst will begin shrinking and week by week you will feel better and better as your body rebalances itself.
At the end of 8 weeks, your Ovarian Cyst and ALL its related symptoms will disappear completely and you'll feel better then you've ever felt in your entire life, you'll be full of vibrant energy and joy. Best of all, you'll be permanently Ovarian Cyst free and you'll never have to worry again.
Success Story #15: Sherri Elchert
"I'm so glad I took a chance...your treatment program has worked wonders for me. "
"Dear Laura Hennings: Recently I suffered from a very painful ovarian cyst. I was on the birth control pills my doctor prescribed but after two months there wasn't any changes in the size of my cyst.
I just wanted to thank you for the eBook. I'm so glad I took a chance and downloaded it. I have to admit I was a little sceptical at first but your treatment program has worked wonders for me. It's been over four months now and not only am I still free of any signs of ovarian cysts buy I just generally feel better too. I definitely couldn't have done it without you. I will not hesitate to recommend anyone to use your system.
Sherri Elchert, Age 34, 2.6" Cyst (Arizona, USA)
CLICK HERE TO ORDER
ONLY $49.97 (Limited Time Offer -- Now Only $39!)
Your investment in this program is a fraction of what you'll waste on worthless drugs and expensive surgery, not to mention the cost of your continued suffering through conventional treatments. The best news is the cost of this natural system is nothing unless the program works wonders for you and completely eliminates your Ovarian Cyst because you get...
My Personal 100% Money-Back Customer Satisfaction Guarantee
Listen, I want to to be as confident as I am and all the women who've used this program and are now ovarian cyst free. But just in case you have any lingering doubts whatsoever, I want to make it foolproof for you.
Order the book today and read every word, download every bonus, and take me up on my free email counseling.
If you're not completely convinced that Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets is worth the price many times over, then within the first 8 weeks I want you to ask for your money back. I'll refund every penny you've paid, and we part as friends.
Plus, you can still keep Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets and all the bonus books for your trouble!
The truth is, you NEVER have to worry about a refund. Why? Because once you actually start this proven, step-by-step program you uncover in the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets book, I'm confident you're going to hardly believe that your pain and ovarian cyst are gone.
Laura Hennings
Get instant access to the download page 24 hours a day.
Try it Risk Free for 2 Months
If You're Finished for Good With all the Pain and Discomfort of Ovarian Cysts and You Want To Avoid Unnecessary And Risky Surgery, Then This Is The Proven Effective Ovarian Cyst Solution You've Been Searching For
Imagine yourself 8 weeks from now... Are you still suffering from unbearable pain, constant stress and worrying? Has your doctor suggested more risky prescription drugs or schedule your unnecessary surgery?
Or...
Are you living a completely pain free, Ovarian Cyst free life with all the energy and a renewed sense of wellbeing?
If you're interested in learning the truth about Natural Ovarian Cyst Freedom, you owe it to yourself to at least read the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets System.
Sincerely, Your Friend and Coach,
Laura Hennings,
Medical researcher, health consultant and author of the Natural Ovarian Cyst Relief Secrets system
P.S. Don't forget, I'm taking all the risk. If after trying my method you don't eliminate your Ovarian Cysts just as easily as thousands of other women, I'll immediately refund every penny. Not only that, but you get to keep the books free for all your trouble. What have you got to lose (except for your painful ovarian cysts) Try it now!
"P.P.S. Remember, that if you order today you'll get the "Limited Time Special" plus 4 FREE ebooks, but I can't guarantee this price of long. So please act now to take advantage of this rare opportunity. Again, if you come back in a couple of days, and the "limited time special" price is gone, there's nothing I can do - Buy today and save!
"P.P.P.S. Let me give you one more reason why you should by this course today:
It gives you the secrets to eliminate virtually all ovarian cysts within 8 weeks, this is information you can't get anywhere else. Why spend hours and hours tracking down information that may or may not be reliable, when you can learn everything you need to know about ovarian cysts (and I do mean everything) in one convenient, inexpensive book? Don't forget you get FREE personal consulting with me to guide you through recovery.
CLICK HERE TO ORDER
ONLY $49.97 (Limited Time Offer -- Now Only $39!)
support@ovariancystcures.com
©2003-2008 OvarianCystCures.com New York, NY 10007
Privacy Guarantee | Security Guarantee