Revitol Scar Cream: It Really Works - Revitol Beauty & Skin Care Products
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
0 Items
Anti Aging
Acne
Cellulite
Eyes
Hair Removal
Rosacea
Scars
Skin Brightening
Stretch Marks
Select Page
Revitol Scar Cream
In Stock
Actual Price = $45.95
Offer Price = $39.95
YOU SAVE = $6
Shipping & handling: Standard Shipping = $6.95 ; Rush Shipping = 12.95
Quick Overview
Offer Pricing
Avail Offer Pricing NOW!
Natural & Safe solution for a beautiful glowing skin
No Harmful Ingredients like Mercury
Effective against sun spots, age spots, hyperpigmentation, etc
Keeps your skin soft & supple
Contains emollients, moisturizers, and skin-nourishing vitamins
5 Month Supply of Revitol Scar Removal Cream 199.75 —-> $119.85 + Free Shipping
3 Month Supply of Revitol Scar Removal Cream $119.85 —-> $79.90 + Free Shipping
Why Buy Revitol Scar Cream?
Unwanted Scars occur in millions of people regardless of gender, age and status. Even the slightest skin damage e.g., a zit may result in scarring of the skin tissue. Many scars are almost not visible but some are so obvious, they make you feel self-conscious about your skin.
Revitol’s knows that the best approach to help treat scars, is using a natural and safe formulation and that’s why they have developed after extensive testing Revitol scar cream.
Revitol scar cream is fortified with natural and potent ingredients such as vitamins, proteins and herbal extracts which work synergistically to encourage the skin’s natural repairing process.
The result? Visible reduction of scars and naturally beautiful skin.
Helps improve the appearance of all types of scars. Revitol’s scar cream can effectively promote the healing and regeneration of burn scars, acne scars, scars from cuts and accidents and surgery scars.
Natural formula. Revitol’s scar cream is plant-based and has no harsh chemicals responsible for skin irritation and damage.
Instructions for Use:
Apply 1-2 times daily on affected areas.
Revitol Scar Cream Ingredients:
Revitol has developed this unique scar removal formula after years of work and thorough R&D using an all-natural blend of ingredients. This anti-scar formula nurtures the skin with proteins and vitamins. The unique formula present in this cream helps reduce scars caused by acne, burns or any other factors. Start applying this cream and gradually see nasty scars disappear.
MAIN INGREDIENTS:
Retinyl Palmitate (Vitamin A): It is probably the most important vitamin for the appearance of the skin. Vitamin A is essential for normal growth, cell structure, and healthy skin.
Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice: Aloe-vera actually facilitates promotion of new cells and rejuvenation of skin, helping to impart a clearer, more vibrant complexion.
Butyrospermum Parkii (Shea) Butter: Acts as a skin conditioning agent and viscosity (thickness) increasing agent. It functions as a dermal conditioner is two-fold. Firstly, it helps retain moisture and decrease the loss of water by forming a barrier on the skin’s surface. Secondly, it also works to reduce the appearance of rough patches and dry flakes on the skin.
Borago officinalis Seed Oil: Borage has immense healing and soothing properties that will help problematic skin to hell as well as heel acne affected skin.
OTHER INGREDIENTS:
Carthamus Tinctorious (Safflower) Seed Oil: Safflower oil is used in skin care formulations that treat dry and damaged skin. This Pale yellow oil contains proteins, minerals, vitamins which is good for all skin types, highly moisturizing and soothing to the skin. The Oil serves as a botanical alternative to mineral oil and other synthetic ester emollients.
Ethoxydiglycol Glyceryl Stearate: It is like a lubricant, which gives the skin a soft and smooth appearance. It also lessens the loss of water from the skin by forming a barrier on the skin’s surface.
PEG-100 Stearate: PEG Stearate cleans the skin as it allows water to mix with oil and dirt so that they can be rinsed away.
Acetyl hexapeptide 8: Acetyl hexapeptide 8 helps to reduce the appearance of fine lines and scars by restricting certain nerve impulses and relaxing the muscles of the face and body as well.
Phospholipids: They can be obtained from olive oil and hazelnut oils. They are used as moisturizers.
Sodium Hyaluronate: Sodium hyaluronate is used for skin hydration. Application of medical self-crosslinking sodium hyaluronate gel is effective on epidural scar removal after laminectomy.
Water/Aqua Tricaprylin, , Macrocystis Pyrifera Extract, Pantothenic Acid (and) Ascorbyl Palmitate (and) Tocopheryl Acetate, Vitamin A Palmitate, Liposome Delivery System, Butylene Glycol (and) Polysorbate 20 (and) Palmitoyl Pentapeptide-4, Dipalmitoyl Hydroxyproline, Glycerin, Ubiquinone, Alpha Lipoic Acid, Carbomer, Potassium Sorbate, Sodium Benzoate, Diazolidinyl Urea.
Customer Reviews
Here is what our customers had to say about this scar removal cream from Revitol.
Submit your review
Name:
Email:
Review Title:
Rating:
1
2
3
4
5
Review:
Check this box to confirm you are human.
Submit
Cancel
Create your own review
Revitol Scar Cream
Average rating:
12 reviews
Nov 3, 2017
by Prey on Revitol Scar Cream
Scars are something that I have a lot and I hate a lot. Used to be a Sportsgirl during schooldays. I have a lot of scars. I don't find them good now so tried this revitol scar cream. It worked on my old scars also.
Sep 23, 2017
by Kathleen on Revitol Scar Cream
I had an accident when I was 18 years old, i had a scar on my face and yeah I know what you are thinking that I used a scar cream on my face, Yes I did and the scar lightened a lot and I am happy that I chose this product from Revitol. One more thing though, I used coconut and almond oil too. That also helped a lot.
Jun 26, 2017
by Kerry Kerry on Revitol Scar Cream
Revitol Scar Removal
Don’t you wish a specialized product that starts attenuation and removing your scars immediately… revitol scar removal If you’re “really” serious and simply desire a product that flat-out works, then please scan this full report back to learn simply however effective Revitol’s Scar Cream extremely is…Guaranteed To Work: the most advantage of this flavoring based mostly product is that the undeniable fact that it extremely will eliminate much any variety of scar with consistent daily use.
Mar 11, 2017
by Megan on Revitol Scar Cream
Works Slowly
I had dark spots on my back and I was actually very worried about them, It wasn't easy for me to go to the beach with all these spots on my back, I actually felt very weird. I started using this cream about a month ago and To be real, It works. Not that fast but I have seen some improvement. Hope with time all these spots will be gone.
Nov 4, 2016
by Joseph on Revitol Scar Cream
Good for use
If you're struggling with the scars then this cream can solve all your problems easily. The cream used all natural ingredients which are safe to use. If you really have deep scars that make you self-conscious, please give this product some time to cover them. It will surely diminish them. I have my own personal experience with the cream. And I got relief from my creepy scars. My scars used to be a completely different color from my skin. Now, they are the same color as the rest of my skin and practically the same texture.
Oct 14, 2016
by Andi. R on Revitol Scar Cream
Pungent smell
The cream works well as a scar lightening agent but I am disappointed with its odor. I just can't bear its smell. Most of the time I got headache!
Aug 14, 2016
by Alejandro on Revitol Scar Cream
Good but not the best
The cream is effective in removing the skin discoloration caused due to scars and even lighten them but they do no diminish the scars 100%. The skin which just got lightened can again become dark if you stop using the cream.
May 4, 2016
by Ubutu on Revitol Scar Cream
Bad results
This product did not diminish my facial acne scars at all. I have been using the product for more than 6 months, still I can't see any change in my scars. Even though i used it twice over my face daily.
Jan 20, 2016
by James on Revitol Scar Cream
Best product in the market
I met an accident few years back. I had surgery and got many stiches on my body. As it is natural, they left their scars behind. I was searching for a scar removal cream and found this one. I used it for 2 months and now all i can see all my scars are lightened and almost disaapeared. I appreciate the manufacturers for making such an effective cream. Loved it!
Aug 22, 2015
by Jennifer Evans on Revitol Scar Cream
Didnt work
I bought the cream and applied it on my scars as advised. But I haven't seen any improvement in my scars and they are still like they were before using this.
Page 1 of 2:
«
‹
1
2
›
»
Top Scar Removal Creams
1. Dermefface fx7: Scar Reduction Therapy
2. Selevax: Intensive Scar Cream from Senvie
3. Revitol Scar Cream
Product Brands
Dermology
Lifecell Skin Cream
Revitol
Skinception Skin Care Range
Dermaflage Scar Filler
Senvie: Luxury Skin Care Brand
Top Posts & Pages
Pumice Stones for Permanent Hair Removal?
10 Best DIY Homemade Natural Eye Masks for Wrinkles.
How to Make Cold Wax for Hair Removal at Home
Top 5 Natural and Organic Kohls
10 Frequently Asked Questions About Blepharitis
DIY Home Electrolysis Kits For Hair Removal: All You Need To Know
What Causes Eczema to Flare Up?
Dry Brushing Your Face: Brush the Wrinkles Away
How to Massage Cellulite away?
What Is Blepharitis: Symptoms, Causes and Treatments
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 13 other subscribers
Email Address
Recent Comments
Stacy on Laser Hair Removal – Why to & why NOT to go for it
Sally on Top Anti Wrinkle Sunscreens for Oily Skin
elisa on 10 Best DIY Homemade Natural Eye Masks for Wrinkles.
Maully on “RACE” may determine your wrinkles after Menopause
ulia on 10 Best “Medicated” Face Cleansers for Acne Prone Skin
Angelica on 7 Reasons Why Not To Use Hair Removing Creams
paulomi on Permanent Hair Removal: What You Must Know!
Suzzana on Kollagen Intensiv Vs StriVectin SD Advanced
Sitemap
Disclaimer & Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress