Eating for pregnancy - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Expert advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Meals for oneWhen cooking for one, or two, meals can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Shopping
Videos
Win
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
ADVICE
Eating for pregnancy
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
When it comes to pregnancy, it can often seem as though everyone is full of good intentions and advice — but with your nutritional needs changing, how do you know what to eat (and what to avoid) at every stage of the process? Nutritionist Debbie Iles investigates.
Pre-conception
Nutrients you need
When you are preparing your body for pregnancy, optimal nutrition and body weight can have a positive effect on fertility. In fact, some nutrients, such as folate, are important even before becoming pregnant.
Folate
Folate supplementation — which has been proven to reduce the incidence of neural tube defects — should ideally start two to three months prior to conception. This is because neural tube closure occurs in the fourth week, which is often before a woman knows she is pregnant. Since bioavailability from food sources varies considerably, supplementation is always recommended before and up to the end of your twelfth week of pregnancy.
Iron
Getting enough iron before falling pregnant is important, as women who are already iron-deficient prior to conceiving can find it difficult to rebuild their iron stores once pregnant. Having good iron stores in the first trimester, more so than later in your pregnancy, may have the most impact in terms of a healthy pregnancy. Studies have shown that iron-deficiency anaemia has been linked to pre-term delivery and low-birthweight babies.
Zinc
Zinc plays an important role in reproductive health for both men and women. Red meat, poultry and legumes all contain zinc.
Antioxidants
Antioxidants are necessary for a healthy reproductive system. Bright- coloured fruits, vegetables and leafy greens are great sources of vitamins C and E, B vitamins and beta-carotene, as well as other micronutrients and antioxidants.
What to eat
When planning for a baby, the emphasis is on achieving and maintaining a healthy weight. Aim for a body mass index (BMI) between 18.5-25 (see our BMI calculator), or a waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) — your waist measurement divided by your hip measurement — of 0.7.
Being overweight or having a high WHR may reduce your chances of conceiving. On the other hand, being underweight can also adversely affect fertility.
There is also some evidence to suggest that the foods you eat could play a role in fertility.
Harvard researchers followed nearly 18,000 healthy women for eight years to identify key elements that may increase chances of conception. Diets rich in monounsaturated fats and polyunsaturated (‘healthy’) fats, plant-based proteins such as nuts and legumes, whole grains, low-GI carbohydrates and folate — all hallmarks of a healthy diet — may promote fertility. Trans-fats (found in commercially made chips, biscuits and other treats) are best avoided.
What to avoid
Avoid smoking and limit alcohol when trying to conceive. Some evidence suggests that as few as five standard drinks a week may impact on a woman’s fertility.
The jury is still out on whether caffeine avoidance is necessary, although a high intake may increase the risk of low-birthweight babies or miscarriage in some women. Consume no more than 200mg (milligrams) caffeine a day (about two small coffees or up to three cups of tea).
What about unplanned pregnancies?
It’s a good idea for all women of reproductive age to include folate in their diet, particularly since many pregnancies are unplanned. If your pregnancy is a surprise, however, don’t panic — we do get folate in food, but as soon as you find you are pregnant be sure to start the folate supplement.
Pregnancy
Nutrients you need
The requirements for most nutrients increase during pregnancy — with folate, zinc, iron, iodine and vitamin B6 especially important.
Folate
Supplementation is recommended up to the end of your twelfth week of pregnancy, although requirements remain high throughout the pregnancy. Use a registered medicine available over-the-counter from pharmacies.
Zinc
Requirements are highest in the third trimester, since this is when the baby acquires two-thirds of his or her zinc stores.
Iron
The recommended daily intake (RDI) for iron is highest at this time — maternal iron deficiency can increase the risk of pre-term deliveries and low-birthweight infants. Boost your iron absorption by eating vitamin C-rich foods in conjunction with iron (in meat, fish and some plant-based sources). Avoid caffeine at mealtimes.
Iodine
This trace element is exceptionally important for pregnant women and growing children. Iodine deficiency in pregnancy increases the risk of damage to a child’s brain and central nervous system. Marine foods and iodised salt can be valuable contributors — but increasing salt intake is rarely recommended. Fortunately, bread-making flours, including those used to make gluten-free bread, are now fortified with iodine (the exceptions are organic and some yeast-free breads). Supplementation is recommended: use the registered 150mcg (microgram) iodine-only supplement available from pharmacies.
Vitamin B6
Increased blood volume during pregnancy is the major reason vitamin B6 requirements are higher. Deficiency has been linked with pre-eclampsia or hypertension in pregnancy, excessive vomiting, and it may also impact on infant brain development. Vitamin B6, however, is readily available in vegetables, fruits and meats, so a balanced diet should easily ensure an adequate intake.
Calcium
Amazingly, your calcium requirements don’t increase as the body absorbs calcium much better during pregnancy. Many women, however, don’t meet the RDI for calcium (three to four serves of dairy) so include enough dairy in your diet.
Vitamin B12
This vitamin is found naturally only in animal foods. Fortified foods or supplements must be used by women on a vegan or vegetarian diet, and this is especially important during pregnancy. Low B12 is associated with neural tube defects at birth.
What to eat
While pregnant women generally need to consume more of most vitamins and minerals, the same cannot necessarily be said of food, making the old ‘eating for two’ idea incorrect!
Energy requirements vary significantly between women, depending on their level of activity, stage of pregnancy, body composition and pre-pregnancy BMI. Most women, however, only need an extra 1400kJ per day in the second trimester and 1900kJ in the third — which is no more than a banana, a small tub of yoghurt and a small handful of almonds. Ask your doctor for advice on your specific energy needs during pregnancy.
Pregnant women are encouraged to eat 150g fish twice a week, but to avoid exposing your unborn child to excessive mercury, choose fish such as sardines, salmon and herring — these fish pack a mean omega-3 punch but are low risk for mercury.
If you crave certain foods, there is usually no reason why you can’t indulge a little — but pregnancy isn’t an excuse to go overboard on treats! Contrary to popular belief, food cravings are not an indication of what your body needs. Choose nutrient-dense foods such as fresh and dried fruit, nuts, yoghurt and lean protein to counter cravings. Limit foods such as soft drinks, sweets and fried foods, which contain empty kilojoules.
Pregnancy is a time to make every mouthful count and nutrient-rich foods will benefit your baby and keep you healthy.
What to avoid
Doctors recommend avoiding nicotine and alcohol during pregnancy as both substances can freely cross the placenta and harm your unborn child.
Limit caffeine to 200mg a day, as more than this has been found to increase the risk of low-birthweight babies and miscarriage.
Listeria infection (caused by food-borne bacteria) is also a concern for pregnant women. While it may only cause mild illness in the mother, it can result in miscarriage, stillbirth or an ill premature baby. The good news is that high temperatures kill listeria. To avoid infection, fresh food should be stored below 4°C and cooked food should be heated to above 75°C before serving. It’s best, therefore, to avoid salad bars, soft cheeses, soft-serve ice cream and cold meats while pregnant.
Are supplements necessary?
In an ideal world, achieving optimal nutrition can be possible through diet alone — pregnant or not. However, pregnancy places exceptional demands on your body and it is not always possible for women to eat the right amounts of the right foods.
The Ministry of Health recommends that women planning a pregnancy, or who are in the early stages of pregnancy, access the low-cost folic acid and iodine tables from a pharmacy. These are even cheaper when on prescription.
Unless you have been given specific recommendations from your doctor following a blood test, it is not advisable to supplement with individual minerals such as calcium, iron or zinc as they tend to compete with each other for absorption and may cause a nutritional imbalance.
To cope with morning sickness
Eat small frequent meals throughout the day.
Avoid offensive odours and get some fresh air.
Take a break from cooking if you can and make sure household bins are emptied daily.
Drink enough fluids.
Eat high-carbohydrate snacks, such as crackers, and sip on chilled drinks.
While a healthy diet is important, it’s more important to eat what you can keep down in the first few weeks. Be sure to take your folate and iodine supplements as recommended. Take them with food and/or at a time when you feel less ill. If vomiting persists beyond 14 weeks, see your doctor.
Breastfeeding
Nutrients you need
Breastfeeding, while undoubtedly the gold standard of infant nutrition, doesn’t always come easily. If you are having difficulty breastfeeding, talk to a lactation consultant or your doctor.
While breastfeeding, certain nutrients, energy and fluids will be in high demand — much more so than during pregnancy.
Zinc
Zinc requirements are highest during this phase, at 12mg a day.
Iron
Iron is one of the few nutrients for which requirements lessen after pregnancy, particularly in breastfeeding mothers. Most women don’t begin ovulating immediately if they are breastfeeding, which means you retain the iron that would normally be lost through menstruation. Unless you were anaemic during pregnancy, or lost a lot of blood and have been advised to take supplements, you should be able to get enough iron from your diet.
Iodine
A new mother’s iodine requirements are still very high as breast milk needs to contain an adequate iodine content to support your infant’s growing brain. It’s recommended you continue with the 150mcg iodine supplement until you have stopped breastfeeding.
What to eat
Exclusively breastfeeding an infant for around the first six months uses a lot of energy. Mothers need about an extra 2000-2100kJ a day. This is equivalent to about five extra slices of bread a day.
For the second six months, milk production is less, but energy needs are the same as body fat has reduced and is no longer available as an energy source.
You can keep your energy intake up with healthy, low-GI snacks, fruit and low-fat dairy foods. Choose nutrient-dense foods and aim for as much variety as possible since there is evidence to suggest that food flavours do enter breast milk. This may make your baby more accepting of a wide variety of foods when they start eating solids.
Drinking enough water is also important for breastfeeding women, although it doesn’t increase milk production. A good guide is to drink a glass at each meal and again with each breastfeed.
What to avoid
Whatever the mother consumes is excreted in her breast milk. This applies to nicotine, caffeine, alcohol and other drugs. Care also needs to be taken with prescription and over-the-counter medications so always advise the pharmacist if you are breastfeeding.
Alcohol is best avoided for at least four to six weeks after birth since breastfeeding can be unpredictably spaced at this time. It takes most women about two hours to clear one standard alcoholic drink from their bloodstream and their breast milk. You may want to plan the occasional drink with this in mind, or express first if you expect to drink more.
A cup of coffee or tea is fine when breastfeeding. However, keep your intake moderate (no more than 200mg a day), as it takes babies a lot longer to clear the caffeine from their blood.
In general, there is no need to avoid any particular foods, spices or potential allergens when breastfeeding. A minority of infants may suffer a food allergy or intolerance in response to food compounds in the mother’s breast milk, but it is important to remember that this is not the general rule. Address breastfeeding technique as the first port of call with unsettled newborns rather than food elimination. However, if your baby reacts strongly during or after breastfeeding, contact your doctor.
Additionally, no specific food has been shown to cause colic, so eat what you usually eat and aim for a wide variety of foods.
RDI* for nutrients at different stages of pregnancy
Nutrient: Folate
Found in: Bread, fortified cereals, green leafy vegetables, legumes, citrus fruit, berries
Pre-conception (RDI): 600mcg/day
Pregnancy (RDI): 600mcg/day
Breastfeeding (RDI): 500mcg/day
Do I need to supplement? Yes. Start two to three months before you plan to conceive and continue to the end of your twelfth week of pregnancy. Use the registered medicine available at pharmacies.
Nutrient: Iodine
Found in: Bread, iodised salt, seafood, eggs and dairy (amounts vary)
Pregnancy (RDI): 150mcg/day
Pre-conception (RDI): 220mcg/day
Breastfeeding (RDI): 270mcg/day
Do I need to supplement? Yes. Once pregnant, use the 150mcg iodine-only tablet available on prescription or over the counter at pharmacies.
Nutrient: Zinc
Found in: Red meat, fish, poultry, cereals, dairy, nuts, legumes
Pre-conception (RDI): 8mg/day
Pregnancy (RDI): 11mg/day
Breastfeeding (RDI): 12mg/day
Do I need to supplement? No.
Nutrient: Iron
Found in: Red meat, fish, poultry, wholegrain cereals, legumes, leafy greens
Pre-conception (RDI): 18mg/day
Pregnancy (RDI): 27mg/day
Breastfeeding (RDI): 9mg/day
Do I need to supplement? Not unless your doctor recommends it.
Nutrient: Vitamin B6
Found in: Meats, breakfast cereals, vegetables, fruit
Pre-conception (RDI): 1.3mg/day
Pregnancy (RDI): 1.9mg/day
Breastfeeding (RDI): 2.0mg/day
Do I need to supplement? No.
*RDI: Recommended Dietary Intake
Losing the baby weight… sensibly
New mums have a tough enough job without having to worry about unrealistic weight-loss expectations. After your baby is born, most weight-loss usually occurs in the first three months. After this, it typically begins to slow. It is important not to embark on any drastic diets, especially in the first six months after birth. Your focus should be on eating a healthy, balanced diet.
Include low-GI carbohydrates at each meal and snack to keep your energy levels up and blood glucose stable. Grainy breads, legumes, kumara, fruit and low-fat yoghurt are all good options.
Plan healthy snacks rather than mindlessly picking at food. Prepare portions of dried fruit and nuts, keep small tubs of low-fat yoghurt on hand and keep plenty of fruit in the fruit bowl.
Try to cut out any midnight munchies — just because your baby needs a midnight feed doesn’t mean you do, too! Keep a bottle of water and an apple close by. If you are not hungry enough to eat that apple, then you certainly don’t need any bread, biscuits or chocolate!
Consider getting your fresh produce delivered. Having a big box of fresh vegetables and fruit arrive on your doorstep will help you cut back on unhealthy impulse buys, save you time and energy, and encourage healthy eating.
Keep portion sizes appropriate. A palm-sized portion of lean meat and a fist-sized portion of carbohydrate is a good guide for meals. There are no limits on salads and non-starchy vegetables so go to town on these.
It is important to remember it took nine months to gain the baby weight, and it will likely take at least that long to return to your previous shape. Whatever you do, avoid extreme kilojoule restriction and try to return to some light exercise as soon as you feel ready.
Author: Debbie Iles
Healthy Food Guide
First published: Jan 2012
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
www.healthyfood.com
breastfeeding, eating for pregnancy, post-birth, pre-conception, pregnancy, pregnancy nutrition, rdi
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
ADVICE
How to boost fertility and what to eat...
ADVICE
New mums: The first weeks, how to stay...
BLOG
Breastfeeding – are you eating enough?
ADVICE
Eating for breastfeeding
Date modified: April 3 2017
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back