Croup
Our Office
Appointments: 813-655-7726
681 West Lumsden Road | Brandon, FL 33511
Fax: 813-655-5617
After Hours Information
Patient Portal Pay My Bill
Menu
Home
Office Info
Insurance
Hospitals
Get Our Mobile App
Services
Emergencies
Appointments
Well Visits
After Hours
Request Appointment
Referrals
Payment / Online Bill Pay
Meet Our Team
Providers
Staff
Awards & Honors
Meet & Greet
Patient Education
Newborns
Teens
Breast Feeding
Behavior
Special Needs
Parenting Tips
Immunizations
Emergencies
Growth & Development
Nutrition
Safety
Sports & Exercise
Useful Links
Nutrition and Activity
Forms
New Patients
Contact Us
Pay My Bill
Newborns
Croup
Print, Share, or View Spanish version of this article
Croup is an infection that makes the inside of your child's throat swell up. This makes it hard for your child to breathe. It can be scary for both parents and children.
Croup is common in young children. Most cases of croup are mild. But croup can get worse and stop your child from breathing at all. Call the doctor if you think your child has croup and he or she is having a hard time breathing.
Croup is usually caused by a virus that infects the voice box and windpipe. The main sign of croup is a barking cough. It may start with a cold. Most children with viral croup have a low fever. But some have temperatures up to 104°F or 40°C.
Signs of Croup
Here are some signs your child may have croup:
Barking cough
Noisy or troubled breathing
Hoarse voice
Gasping for breath
What to Do for Croup
Call 911 or an Ambulance Right Away If… …your child:
Can't speak for lack of breath.
Seems to be struggling to get a breath.
Makes a whistling sound when breathing in. (This is called stridor*.)
Drools much more than usual or has a very hard time swallowing saliva*.
Has a bluish mouth or fingernails.
The above are all signs of severe croup. They may also be signs of other serious problems. Either way, if your child is having trouble breathing, you need to get him or her to the hospital.
Call the Doctor If…
…either of these is true:
Your child is a baby 1 year or younger.
The cough keeps getting worse.
Try Home Treatment
Croup may wake your child up in the middle of the night. If your child is not having trouble breathing, try these home treatments.
Steam up the bathroom by running hot water in the shower. Take your child in the bathroom to breathe the moist air for 15 or 20 minutes. Steam works for many children.
If steam does not work, bundle your child up and go outdoors for a few minutes. The cool night air may help your child breathe more freely.
Use a cool-mist humidifier (hyoo-MID-uh-fye-ur) in your child's room for the rest of the night. Turn it on for the next 2 to 3 nights too.
Medicines for Croup
The doctor may prescribe steroids*. Steroids help bring down the swelling in the throat.
Antibiotics don't help because croup is almost always caused by a virus.
Cough syrups don't help either. They can even make things worse. They may keep your child from coughing up mucus (MYOO-kus) that needs to come out if there is infection.
Who Gets Croup?
Most children get croup once or twice. Some children get croup every time they get a cold or the flu. Croup can come at any time. It's most common in the winter months.
Children are most likely to get croup between 6 months and 3 years of age. After age 3, it is not as common. That's because the windpipe is larger. So swelling is less likely to get in the way of breathing.
If your child seems to get croup a lot, he or she may have another problem. Talk with your child's doctor.
Can You Prevent Croup?
You can’t really prevent croup. But you can prevent a more serious illness called acute epiglottitis (uh- KYOOT epp-uh-glah-TYE-tis). Its symptoms are a lot like croup, but worse. This illness usually strikes children 1 to 5 years old.
The good news is that the Hib vaccine can protect against this illness. Your child should get the first dose of Hib at 2 months old.
Copyright © 2008
Is Your Child Sick?®
Illnesses and Symptoms... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Medicine Dosages... Acetaminophen ASDs Family Handout—Introduction to Complementary and Alternative Medicine Choosing Over-the-Counter Medicines for Your Child Cold Medicines Cough Medicines Giving Medicine to Children: Important Safety Information Ibuprofen Itching/Allergies Medicine and the Media: How to Make Sense of the Messages Medicines for ADHD: Questions From Teens Who Have ADHD Parent's Guide to Complementary and Integrative Medicine, A Prescription Medicines and Your Child Use of Medicines in Sports (Care of the Young Athlete) Using Liquid Medicines Using Over-the-Counter Medicines with Your Child
Medical Conditions... A Guide to Children’s Dental Health Abdominal Pain, Recurrent Acne Acute Ear Infections and Your Child Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Otitis Media Acute Strep Throat Addison AIDS/HIV Allergies in Children Anaphylaxis Anemia and Your Young Child: Guidelines for Parents: Adapted from Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to Age 5 Anesthesia and Your Child: Information for Parents Ankle Sprain Treatment (Care of the Young Athlete) Antibiotics and Your Child Anxiety Appendicitis Asthma Asthma and Exercise (Care of the Young Athlete) Asthma and Your Child Asthma Triggers Atopic Dermatitis (Eczema) Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Breast Enlargement, Premature Breath-Holding Spells Bronchiolitis Bronchiolitis and Your Young Child Care of the Premature Infant Celiac Disease Chickenpox Chickenpox Immunization Chickenpox Vaccine, The Coarctation of the Aorta Colds Common Childhood Infections Congenital Hip Dysplasia Constipation Constipation and Your Child Coxsackie A16 Croup Croup and Your Young Child Croup: When Your Child Needs Hospital Care Crying and Your Baby: How to Calm a Fussy or Colicky Baby Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome (CVS) Depression Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip Diabetic Mother, Infant of Diaper Rash and Your Baby Diarrhea and Your Child Diarrhea, Vomiting, and Water Loss (Dehydration) Ear Infection Ear Infections Eating Disorders Eczema Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) and Your Child Enlarged Lymph Nodes Erythema Multiforme Eye Problems Related to Headache Febrile Seizure Febrile Seizures Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Fever Fever and Your Child Fifth Disease Fifth Disease (Erythema Infectiosum) Flu Flu, The Food Allergies and Your Child Fragile X Syndrome Gastroenteritis, Viral Gastroenteritis: When Your Child Needs Hospital Care Gastroesophageal Reflux Hand Foot and Mouth Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Head Lice Headache Related to Eye Problems Hemangioma Hepatitis A Hepatitis A Immunization Hepatitis B Hepatitis B Immunization Hepatitis C Hib Immunization High Blood Pressure Hip Dysplasia (Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip) HIV/AIDS How to Take Your Child's Temperature Hyperactivity Hypertension Hypothyroidism Immunizations Infant of a Diabetic Mother Infectious Mononucleosis Influenza Immunization Influenza-Seasonal Inhaled and Intranasal Corticosteroids and Your Child Kawasaki Syndrome Language Development in Young Children Lead Poisoning Leukemia Lung Hypoplasia Lyme Disease Lymphadenopathy Managing Chronic Health Needs in Child Care and Schools—Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Measles Mental Health Middle Ear Fluid and Your Child MMR Immunization Molluscum Contagiosum Mumps Obesity in Childhood Osgood-Schlatter Disease (Care of the Young Athlete) Otitis Media, Acute Parasites - Giardia Pneumococcal Conjugate Immunization Pneumonia and Your Child Polio Immunization Premature Thelarche Prematurity Prematurity, Retinopathy of Pulmonary Hypertension Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH & SPH) Retinopathy of Prematurity Rheumatic Fever, Acute Ringworm (Tinea) Roseola Rotavirus Rubella (German Measles) Safety of Blood Transfusions Scabies Seasonal Influenza (Flu) Separation Anxiety Sinusitis Sinusitis and Your Child Sleep Apnea and Your Child Smoking Speech Development in Young Children Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Strep Throat Strep Throat-Acute Strep Throat-Recurrent Stuttering and the Young Child Swine Flu Swine Flu (H1N1) FAQ Swine Flu (H1N1) Vaccine Swollen Glands Tattoos Tear Duct, Blocked Tetralogy of Fallot Thyroid Problems Tinea (ringworm infection) Tonsils and the Adenoid Toxic Shock Syndrome Toxoplasmosis Treating Your Child's Pain: Medical Procedures Treating Your Child's Pain: Surgery Turner Syndrome Type 2 Diabetes: Tips for Healthy Living Underdeveloped Lungs Urinary Tract Infection Urinary Tract Infections in Young Children Varicella or Chickenpox Varivax Immunization Vesicoureteral Reflux Wheezing-Infant Whooping Cough (Pertussis) Wilson Disease Food Borne Illnesses
X
X