attacks with proper yoga Archives - Yoga Moldova
Skip to content
Yoga Moldova
Fitness App News
Menu
About Me
Contact
Home » attacks with proper yoga
Tag: attacks with proper yoga
January 2, 2019
Posing Asthma Away with Yoga – Top Positions for Quick Relief
Yoga postures have been known to help improve the mind and body and there’s great evidence that it can also help with asthma. If you understand how Yoga works and what happens during an Asthma attack, then you’ll understand the whole process.
What i s Asthma?
It’s a chronic condition marked with acute exacerbations that can be quite uncomfortable for many people. Sometimes it can turn deadly if the obstruction stays for a longer period of time. Asthma is characterized by the following:
Spasm of the airways
Excessive production of mucus
Shortness of breath
Use of accessory muscles to breath
Anxiety
Wheezing
Coughing
Asthma attacks are triggered by a lot of things depending on the person. These are common triggers that you have to watch out for.
Dust
Pollen
Cold weather/air
Getting wet with cold water
Sudden temperature changes
Offensive smells
Chemical vapors
The list can go on. Treatment is symptomatic. Asthma can’t be cured, and doctors will help you manage the symptoms. One way to help alleviate and prevent future asthma attacks is through yoga
Disclaimer: This article does not suggest that you quit any form of asthma therapy and medication abruptly. Yoga is an adjunct solution that will work well with the current treatment of the condition.
How to Use Yoga to Help with your Asthma
Yoga is a powerful practice of using posture and channeling inner energy in ways that will improve the body. It’s not just to strengthen the mind and body, it can also be used to help manage certain conditions such as Asthma. These are the many ways the practice can be used to manage any future attacks with proper yoga.
Yoga Reduces Stress
Stress is one of the triggers of Asthma. Any type of emotional stress, mental stress and more can trigger a spasm so easily. By practicing Yoga, you can clear your mind and make sure that are stronger than stress. By lowering and managing stress levels, you can cut attacks by almost half and even lower the length of time they occur.
Yoga Improves Breathing
One of the great benefits of Yoga is the slow but powerful breathing pattern. It can help with the following:
Strengthen your diaphragm that will allow you to take in and expel more air
Help stretch and enlarge your airways, so any attack will last shorter or won’t affect you as much
Improve tissue perfusion so your body won’t starve immediately when oxygen is reduced due to an attack
A normal and practiced breathing pattern can help during an attack so you won’t drive yourself into a cycle of increasing stress
Know Your Yoga Instructor
While we encourage you to incorporate Yoga into managing Asthma, it’s also important for you to learn more about yoga instructors and their qualifications. There are fake instructors the same way there are fake medicines. The wrong position and technique can do more harm than good. Thankfully, there are international, national and local communities that help certify Yoga. Learn and practice with only someone who is certified.
Use technology to stay healthy. Read more articles like this in Yoga Moldova, your best source of fitness in the internet jungle.
by Lindsay Wright
Yoga
attacks with proper yoga
benefits of Yoga
Built with Make. Your friendly WordPress page builder theme.
RSS
Skip to toolbar
About WordPress
WordPress.org
Documentation
Support Forums
Feedback
Log In
Search