Dorsal Night Splints, Plantar Fasciitis Foot Braces & Sleeping Boots
Easy Exchanges
Free Shipping on U.S. Orders $50 or More
Next Day / 2 Day Shipping Available
Help Sign In / Track
866-712-7808
View Cart
(0) Items
Menu
Abdominal Ankle Back Elbow Finger & Thumb Foot & Toe Knee Shoulder Thigh & Groin Wrist
All Plus Size Supports Plus Size Knee Braces Plus Size Back Braces Hernia Belts Hip Supports Night Splints Pediatric / Kid's Plantar Fasciitis Posture Correctors Walker Boots
Shop by Injury/Condition On Sale View All Braces
BRACES
Abdominal Ankle Back Elbow Finger & Thumb Foot & Toe Knee Shoulder Thigh & Groin Wrist
All Plus Size Supports Plus Size Knee Braces Plus Size Back Braces Hernia Belts Hip Supports Night Splints Pediatric / Kid's Plantar Fasciitis Posture Correctors Walker Boots
View All Braces
Shop By:
Injury / Condition
ON SALE
Home / Dorsal & Plantar Night Splints
Dorsal & Plantar Night Splints
Plantar Fasciitis Night Sock | Soft Stretching Splint & Sleep Support Brace
$34.99
Sleeping Stretch Boot for Plantar Fascia, Achilles Tendonitis & Heel Spur Treatment
$27.99
Dorsal Night Splint for Foot Drop & Plantar Fasciitis
$24.99
Plantar Fasciitis Night Splint & Calf Stretcher Foot Brace for Pain Relief
$27.99
Sale
Nighttime Splint for Achilles Tendon & Calf Stretching and Ankle Dorsiflexion
$24.99 $65.00
Padded 90 Degree Soft Nighttime Dorsiwedge Boot Splint
$34.99
Night Splints for Plantar Fasciitis, Achilles Tendonitis, Foot Drop, & Other Conditions
Using night splints can be a cost-effective and efficient way to treat many different foot conditions. Night splints hold the foot in the “dorsiflexion” position, meaning the fascia is stretched out to help it from tensing up while you sleep. These splints relieve your foot from that aching and spiking pain you first receive when you wake up. It allows your foot to undergo as little stress possible and reduce inflammation.
Unsure what condition you have? Here are a few symptoms of the different causes of foot pain:
Plantar Fasciitis: Stabbing pain in the bottom of your foot near the heel, usually occurring after you wake up.
Achilles Tendonitis: Starts out as a mild ache in the back of the leg or heel post physical activity such as running or playing sports. Pain may worsen when you continue such activity.
Foot Drop: Difficulty lifting the top of your foot, causing it to drag on the floor when you walk. It usually occurs in only one foot.
Bunion Pain: Large bump on the outside of the toe, swelling, redness, and thickening of the large toe.
Plantar (Boot) vs. Dorsal Style Night Splints for Heel Pain
There are two main types of night splints, dorsal and plantar splints. Both styles help treat plantar fasciitis, Achilles tendonitis, foot drop, and heel pain. Ultimately, it’s up to you in choosing which style you prefer for your specific condition.
Plantar (boot) splint style features:
Traditional night splint for plantar fasciitis
Boot like brace that rests on the back of the leg, calf, and foot
Larger compared to the dorsal style
Plastic outer layer with a soft inside layer
May cause difficulty walking if you frequently get up at night
Dorsal splint style features:
Hard plastic support that goes along the shin and top of the foot
Considered more comfortable to sleep in because of soft material
Straps stretch toes upward to provide dorsiflexion
Easy night-time movement, best for stomach and side sleepers
Used for less severe injuries because the design tends to cause some slippage
Looking for a brace to wear during the day? BraceAbility has plantar fasciitis day splints and Achilles tendonitis support braces available to help speed up your recovery!
5 Ways to Help Get the Most Out of Your Night Splint
While most would prefer not to sleep with anything attached to their foot, these night splints can be extremely helpful for your foot pain. It’s up to you to make the best of your condition!
Get the right size: Make sure you get an adequate size for your foot. If the boot/dorsal night splint is too large, it will improperly support your foot. It also will help reduce the amount of rubbing if you get the right size.
Be educated on how to properly use the splint: Utilize the directions that come along with your specific splint, make sure you are adjusting it correctly.
Wear it consistently: Even if it isn’t the most comfortable to sleep in, it’s important to wear it regularly in order for your foot to heal.
Wear it before you sleep: When you first purchase your night splint, it’s always a good idea to try wearing it for awhile before you sleep in it. Try wearing while you’re watching TV or reading a book to help your foot get used to it.
It doesn’t work overnight: It can take a few nights for you to start seeing a difference from your night splint. If you have a severe case, it could take a longer amount of time.
Complementary Ideas to Wearing Your Night Splint That Help Speed Up Recovery
Most of us are on our feet for multiple hours of the day. Having a condition that makes walking difficult can put a strain on simple activities such as exercising, working, or doing everyday things around the house. Although wearing a night splint is a great start towards a quick recovery, there are additional ways to pair with the splint to make you more comfortable.
Here are some complementary ideas for your recovery time:
Rest your feet: It can be hard to take time and slow down, but it’s important to stop or reduce any activities that add to your heel pain.
Use ice: Ice can help reduce inflammation and is advised to do it for at least twenty minutes a day.
Stretch, stretch, stretch: Helps strengthen and increase flexibility in the Achilles tendon and plantar fascia.
Wear the right shoes: Wear comfortable and supportive shoes during your recovery time such as tennis shoes. You can also pair your shoes with compression socks for extra relief.
How Can Different Types of Ankle Splints Help Treat Plantar Fasciitis and Achilles Tendonitis?
Plantar fasciitis is a condition that involves the inflammation of the plantar fascia (the flat band of tissue or ligament that connects the heel bone to the toes). This condition is caused when the ligament that supports the arch of the foot is strained. For treatment, a plantar fasciitis ankle splint or a night ankle splint is used. The brace or splint will help hold the foot with the toes pointed up and with the foot and ankle at a ninety-degree angle. And because a common symptom of plantar fasciitis is the tightening up of the plantar fascia at night, the brace or splint is worn overnight to allow gentle stretching of the plantar fascia and to prevent it from tightening up.
Achilles tendonitis, on the other hand, is a condition that involves pain in the Achilles tendon, considered to be the biggest tendon in the human body, which connects the calf muscles to the heel bone. Although the Achilles tendon can withstand extreme stress, it is also prone to tendonitis, which is often caused by overuse and degeneration. Wearing a tendonitis ankle brace is an effective way to treat Achilles tendonitis. An Achilles tendonitis ankle brace specifically helps reduce the irritation and strain brought about by this condition.
Best Plantar Fasciitis Night Splint and an Effective Night Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
Needless to say, a night splint cannot be effective unless a patient wears it. And one of the most important features of the Active Innovations Dorsal Night Splint compared to other plantar fasciitis foot splints is the comfort that it provides to the wearer. It is a lightweight and cool plantar fasciitis night splint that is easy to put on; thus, patients are willing to wear it for longer periods, therefore resulting in a faster healing time.
On the other hand, the Corflex Padded 90 Degree Plantar Fasciitis Night Splint, as its name suggests, is a specially designed night brace that effectively deals with plantar fasciitis. This ankle splint features a polyethylene shell with soft padded cover and straps to provide maximum patient comfort and is constructed of high-density, rigid shell and replaceable soft padded cover and contact closure. The Corflex night splint is indicated for the treatment of plantar fasciitis, Achilles tendonitis, plantar flexion contractures, heel spurs, and other lower leg overuse injuries
We at BraceAbility offer a variety of Achilles tendonitis night splints and night foot splints for plantar fasciitis depending on your needs. Our customer service representatives are here to help. To speak with one, please call us at (866) 712.7808. For less severe ankle injuries, try a comfortable ankle support.
Information
About Us
Blog
Customer Help Center
Injury Library
Security & Privacy
Terms of Use
Join our Product Advisory Team
Social Media
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
My Account
Log In
Return/Exchange Policy
Easy Online Returns
View Cart
Contact Us
BraceAbility, Inc.
115 East 2nd St.
Cedar Falls, Iowa 50613
United States
Contact Us
Frequently Asked Questions
866-712-7808
Copyright 2018 - BraceAbility
The advice and information contained in this website is not intended as a substitute for medical counseling.
If you have any questions about treatment for a specific condition, please check with a health care professional.
Customer Service
Customer Support
Our customer support team is available Monday - Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Central time.
Give Us a Call
866-712-7808
Send Us an Email
Use our contact form to submit an email to customer support team. Click the “Support” icon on the bottom right of any page on our website. We typically respond within one business day (or faster).
Holidays
BraceAbility.com is closed on the following United States holidays. This may affect your shipping time and they will be accounted for in the estimated ship date listed on each product page.
New Year's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Helpful Links
Easy Online Returns
Return/Exchange Policy
Frequently Asked Questions
body
Close