Dupixent FDA Approval - New Eczema Treatment
Skip navigation!
Discover
Watch
Shop
More
Switch To
uk
de
ca
Now Reading
Good News For Eczema Sufferers
This Is Huge News For Those Suffering With Severe Eczema
Erika Stalder
Photo: Getty Images.
Those who suffer from eczema know how debilitating the skin disease (known as atopic dermatitis) can be: Skin can become so itchy that you want to rip it from your body. Flare-ups can also result in oozing and cracked skin that’s so painful, it’s hard to go to sleep. And those are just two of the condition’s symptoms. Even more frustrating? The disease’s most popular treatments — bleach baths (yes, that's a real remedy), compresses, and topical steroid creams — can be just as tough to manage. But now, there’s new hope for the 31.6 million Americans living with eczema: The FDA has just approved the first biologic to help treat these symptoms for adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis and for whom topical treatments have been proven a bust.
Advertisement
Called Dupixent, the self-administered injection is comprised of an antibody designed to slow the overactive communication of two proteins (IL-4 and IL-13) in the body which are thought to drive inflammation in patients with atopic dermatitis. By blocking these proteins from binding to cell receptors, Dupixent calms a hyperactive immune system and lowers inflammation. And so far, the results are promising.
In clinical trials, more than half of patients who used 300 mg of Dupixent every two weeks with no other forms of treatment saw a 75% or greater reduction in the severity of their symptoms (or what’s called their Eczema Area and Severity Index score, an instrument used by investigators to measure the severity of clinical signs in atopic dermatitis.)
But perhaps even more impressive than the trial’s results is the fact that an entirely new category of treatment is now available for this hard-to-manage disease. The biologic is being heralded as a major breakthrough for atopic dermatitis because it’s the first to treat the underlying causes of the disease in the body, rather than treating the effects of the disease on the skin.
“For those with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis, topical treatments aren’t always effective to control the disease,” notes Julie Block, President & Chief Executive Officer of the National Eczema Association. “Until now, there has not been an approved FDA treatment option for this population. This new biologic targets certain functioning of the immune system to keep it from over-reacting.”
Even better? Eczema sufferers won’t have to wait much longer to try this new type of treatment. Dupixent is expected to become available to U.S. healthcare providers and patients later this week.
Advertisement
Dupixent FDA Approval - New Eczema Treatment
written by Erika Stalder
Photo: Getty Images.
Editors' Picks
Horoscopes
Your April Horoscope, Revealed
Venus Australis
Apr 1, 2019
Shopping
27 Rehearsal Dinner Dresses Fit For Opening Night
Emily Ruane
Apr 17, 2019
Movies
Josephine Langford Isn't The Next Bella Swan, But She's Ready For Everything...
Kelsea Stahler
Apr 12, 2019
More from Beauty
Beauty
Elisabeth Moss' Grunge Makeup Tells A Cautionary Tale In
The following article contains spoilers for Her Smell. When Elisabeth Moss landed the role as reckless lead singer Becky Something in Her Smell, the
by Samantha Sasso
Beauty
We Tried Moschino's New Sephora Makeup Collection — & This I...
Welcome to Unfiltered, where we give our honest, no-B.S. reviews of the most buzzed-about beauty products, brands, and services on the market right now.
by Thatiana Diaz
Beauty
Vanessa Morgan Teases A Big Hair Change For Her Riverdale
In season 2 of the CW hit series Riverdale, we were introduced to Toni Topaz: a pink-haired, badass Serpent, who later becomes the girlfriend of Cheryl
by aimee simeon
Beauty
The Real Story Behind Cara Delevingne's Punk-Rock Armpit Hair
Cara Delevingne has never been the kind of celebrity to hold fast to the status quo. Remember when she went full G.I. Jane in 2017 — and then painted
by Samantha Sasso
Beauty
11 Fresh, Spring-y Manicures Will Impress Everyone At Easter Brunch
Innocently finger-scrolling through your spring calendar can be a double-edged sword: On the one hand, you're probably pumped for that rapidly approaching
by Megan Decker
Beauty
5 Trendy Nail-Art Designs That Will Be Everywhere This Summer
As we inch closer to the dead heat of summer, fun accessories are top of mind. Our sandals are peep-toed with clear PVC straps. We're gravitating toward
by Megan Decker
Paid Content
Proof You Can Rock Festival-Ready Hairstyles Anywhere
Between crimped high ponytails, intricate fishtail braids, and multicolored glitter parts, there's no denying that festival hairstyles are the definition
by Jennifer Mulrow
Beauty
These Makeup Primers Have Serious Skin-Care Benefits
It's a mixed-up world we're living in, but there are some things that just go together: wine and cheese. Chrissy Teigen and Twitter. Beyoncé and Netflix.
by Thatiana Diaz
Beauty
Do These CBD Beauty Products Actually Work?
It's 2019, and weed is buzzier now than it was during the '60s — just not for the reason you'd think. The psychoactive plant technically known as
by Samantha Sasso
Beauty
Why Take A Shower When These CBD Bath Bombs Exist?
If there were to be a definitive list of crucial questions you must ask your partner prior to taking the next step in your relationship, "Are you a bath
by Samantha Sasso
Beauty
Are LED Light Therapy Face Masks The Secret To Clear Skin?
In the annals of popular beauty Instagram posts, selfies with LED light therapy masks have become as time-honored as swatch-loaded arms and pigment-mixing
by Erika Stalder
Beauty
Aloe Vera Changed My Skin — Once I Used It For More Than Sunburns
Like tangled-up Conair dryers and dusty Clinique samples, almost every bathroom cabinet graveyard has a jumbo-sized tub of electric-green aloe vera gel
by Cat Quinn
Watch
R29 Original Series
Trending Videos
Beauty
Cardi B's Manicurist Gave Me Blinged-Out Nails — & This Is How...
Dedicated Feature
Living With Balance Is The Key To Entrepreneurial Success — ...
Beauty
This May Just Be The Coolest Way To Freshen Up Dull Brunette ...
Beauty
"Dumpster Diving" Points To A Much Bigger Beauty Problem
Discover
R29 Stories & News
Watch
R29 Original Series & Films
Shop
R29's Most Wanted
© 2019 Refinery29 Inc.
COMPANY
About Us
Jobs
Press
Advertising
Feedback
Refinery29 Intelligence
INFORMATION
R29 News
Terms
Privacy
Archives
RSS
EDITIONS
Canada
United Kingdom
Germany
NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP
Go!