Psychological Benefits of Exercise - Ocean Rock Wellness - Bermuda
Our Store
Home
Our Services
Disease Reversal/ Weight Management
Functional Medicine
Holistic Pediatrics
Physiotherapy
Yoga Classes
Specialized Tests
Biomat Therapy
Rapid Transformational Therapy
Supplements/Retail
About Us
Our Staff
Blog
Resources
Contact Us
Email Newsletter Signup
Book Now
Our Store
Home
Our Services
Disease Reversal/ Weight Management
Functional Medicine
Holistic Pediatrics
Physiotherapy
Yoga Classes
Specialized Tests
Biomat Therapy
Rapid Transformational Therapy
Supplements/Retail
About Us
Our Staff
Blog
Resources
Contact Us
Email Newsletter Signup
Book Now
(441) 295-5100
Psychological Benefits of Exercise
Home » Fitness » Psychological Benefits of Exercise
June 7, 2015
OceanRockWellness
Fitness, Health, mindful, multidisciplinary, Uncategorized
We often hear about the physical benefits of exercise but there are also psychological benefits. Did you know that engaging in a moderate amount of physical activity will result in improved mood and emotional states? Exercise can promote psychological well-being as well as improve quality of life.
The following are common psychological benefits gained through exercise:
Improved mood
Reduced stress as well as an improved ability to cope with stress
Improved self-esteem
Pride in physical accomplishments
Increased satisfaction with oneself
Improved body image
Increased feelings of energy
Improved confidence in your physical abilities
Decreased symptoms associated with depression
Exercise and your Mood
Research has shown that the connection between exercise and mood is pretty strong. In fact, within five minutes of moderate exercise, a mood enhancement effect is observed. Additionally, several randomized controlled trials have suggested that active people are less depressed that inactive people. The benefits of exercise on mental health go well beyond the short term, as exercise can also help to alleviate long-term depression. The effects of exercise have been shown to be comparable to antidepressant medication for people with mild to moderate depression, and exercise can help prevent relapse.
Exercise and your Brain
How does exercise help with depression? There is a great debate about what exactly causes these positive changes in depression symptoms among people who regularly exercise. Some researchers believe that exercise relieves depression by increasing serotonin (a chemical in the brain targeted by antidepressant medications) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (which supports the growth of neurons, the brains messenger system). Others believe that exercise helps by normalizing sleep, which has protective effects on the brain.
There are psychological explanations as well. Exercise may boost a depressed person’s outlook by helping them return to meaningful activity and providing a sense of accomplishment. In addition, we know that how a person responds to stress is moderated by activity, therefore, exercise may enhance the brain’s ability to respond to stress.
The Mind-Body Connection
Biologically, exercise seems to give the body a chance to practice dealing with stress. Exercising results in the physiological systems of the body communicating more than usual with one another. For example, the heart communicates with the blood vessels, which communicate with the lungs, which communicate with the muscular system. All of these systems are controlled by the central and sympathetic nervous system. Working out the body’s communication system is a great benefit of exercising because the more sedentary we get, the less efficient our bodies will be in response to stress.
Starting a New Habit
Even with knowing the benefits of exercising, it can be difficult to start a new habit. Try just focusing on increasing movement – don’t overdo it and make it a miserable experience. Start slow and increase steadily. Exercise even when you feel bad, that is when you get the greatest mood boost!
Dr. Renee Simons, Psy.D
Cognitive-Behavioral Therapist
References:
The Association for Applied Sport Psychology
Weir, K., (2011) The Exercise Effect. American Psychological Association 41 [11], 48.
Dishman, R.K. & Sothmann, M. (No Date) Exercise Fuels the Brains Stress Buffers. American Psychological Association.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Captcha *
Type the text displayed above:
Recent Posts
Coffee – is it good or bad?!
What We’re Reading: January Ed.
How To Keep Healthy Through The Holiday Season
Meet Shara…Our New Physiotherapist!
RADIO: Olderhood & Ocean Rock Wellness Discuss Inflammation
Recent Comments
WeRIndia on 3 Tips To Improve Your Child’s Health Overnight!
Clara on Make Sleep a Priority, Doctor's Orders!
sujan alam on Make Sleep a Priority, Doctor's Orders!
Ina Gilbert on 3 Tips To Improve Your Child’s Health Overnight!
Shan Alex on 3 Tips To Improve Your Child’s Health Overnight!
Archives
March 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
April 2017
February 2017
January 2017
July 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
December 2015
September 2015
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
Categories
Acupuncture
Breathing
Children
Chronic Disease
Fitness
food
Functional Medicine
Gratitude
Happiness
Healing
Health
healthy
Medical
Membership
mindful
multidisciplinary
Nutrition
Obesity Medicine
Ocean Rock Wellness Podcast
Pediatrics
Physiotherapy
Rapid Transformational Therapy
Rapid Transformational Therapy
sleep
Supplements
team
Uncategorized
weight loss
wellness
yoga
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Click below to view the Healing Bermuda website and learn more about our programs and supplements.
Ocean Rock Wellness Ltd.
Charities House
25 Point Finger Road
Paget, DV 04
Bermuda
tel: (441) 295-5100
fax: (441) 295-5101
email: info@oceanrockwellness.com
Tagcloud
Bermuda Blog body breathing Cognitive Behavioral Therapy confidence doctor empower Family Fit Family Fit for Life Food Functional medicine goals Graduation gratitude happiness healing Healing Bermuda health healthcare health coach Healthy Living hydration Kids medical mindful Mindful Eating Nutrition Obesity Medicine Ocean Rock Wellness Optimal Healthy Weight Program Pediatrics physical physio Physiotherapy pregnancy rapid transformational therapy self-esteem sleep strength Team weight loss wellness yoga
Recent Posts
Coffee - is it good or bad?!
March 15, 2019 | OceanRockWellness
What We're Reading: January Ed.
January 23, 2019 | OceanRockWellness
How To Keep Healthy Through The Holiday Season
December 12, 2018 | OceanRockWellness
Your Name (required)
Your Email (required)
Subject
Your Message
© 2019 Ocean Rock Wellness Terms and Conditions. Privacy Policy. Refund Policy.
promoting positive lifelong transformations in health and wellness
Learn the Top Five Health Secrets we use
to Optimize our Health
SUBSCRIBE!