Warts on the Face - Treatments and Remedies for Removal
There are a number of treatments available for warts on the face.
Salicylic acid is found in many over-the-counter medications and removes the dead skin cells as they begin to fall away from the warts. These products come in liquid or gel form for convenience.
Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences
or Read Others' Contributions
Click here for more pages and articles on Warts.
A note about Warts on the Face - Treatments and Remedies for Removal
In natural health and healing, we believe in holistic health and healing, as we realize that different parts of the human body are highly interlinked, often beyond Man's understanding. We also believe that the body has the ability to heal itself of any disease, even supposedly incurable diseases.
In order to do so, the body needs the support of some basic dietary and lifestyle good health habits, such as a full body detox and a proper understanding and application of nutrition. No matter how remote or unrelated a health condition may seem, these fundamental health steps will greatly magnify the effects and benefits of any of our health-promoting efforts, including the use of specific natural health remedies.
When using straight salicylic acid, pat yourself dry after a shower and apply to damp skin. Before showering the next day, use an emery board to file the wart. Repeat this treatment as needed. Though this can take several weeks, it has been shown to be effective.
Cryotherapy is another popular method that involves freezing the wart with liquid nitrogen. It is a relatively painless method with the treatment lasting just a few minutes, but the resulting blisters take time to heal, and repeating treatment will probably be necessary.
Other medical treatments involve surgically removing the warts, burning them away, or removing it with laser treatment. As with anything pertaining to the face, use caution; the same is true for warts on the face. For some areas, it may be wise to see a physician, as the skin on your face is very sensitive, with some areas quite fragile.
Because the warts are the outward sign that the human papilloma virus (HPV) is present in the body, they can be difficult to treat without treating the root problem as well. Often, the virus runs its course and the warts disappear on their own. Some warts respond to only one treatment, while others may be treated repeatedly without showing any signs of clearing.
To help deal with warts on the face from the inside out, strong immunity is important. And, to help the immune system, it is important to eat well during this time, concentrating on raw fruits and vegetables as your main source of nutrition, with added whole grains, soy products, nuts and seeds for good amino acid consumption.
One treatment known as cantharidin has a fairly good track record. It is a chemical that is applied to the wart and left alone for 24 hours before being washed off. It is painless and chosen many times for use with children as a result. Depending on where the wart is located, this method is often excluded for warts on the face because it can cause blistering, and the procedure has to be repeated every two weeks until the wart has disappeared.
To avoid treatments that are painful or leave behind scarring, many people are turning to natural products or remedies that use natural ingredients. This is particularly true for warts on the face, since everything is so noticeable on the face.
Several homeopathic remedies work well, addressing the problem from the inside of the body as well as the outside. This is also true with a number of the readily available essential oils.
Duct tape has been used as a home remedy for warts removal for many years, and it works well on the face because the tape can be cut down to the size of the wart and left for up to a week. This can be repeated as often as necessary, being sure to clean any tape residue in between times. Barring appearance, this method has been proven to be as effective as cryotherapy, at the cost of a roll of duct tape.
To use duct tape for removing warts on the face, simply cover the wart with duct tape for up to 7 days. After you remove the duct tape, soak the wart in warm water, and then use an emery board or pumice stone to try to file the wart off. This process can then be repeated until the wart is gone.
To learn more tips for natural treatments and home remedies for removing warts on the face naturally, read the other related warts articles and pages on this website.
Read More: More on Warts | Natural Health Remedies for Various Ailments and Conditions | Home Page | Site Search
Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences
or Read Others' Contributions
Click here to learn about a safe, painless, effective and natural way to remove warts, moles and skin tags.
Click here to learn about another all-natural cure for permanently removing warts, skin tags and moles in just 3 days, in a safe, painless and effective manner.
Click here for natural, herbal and homeopathic remedies for warts and moles.
Click here for more pages and articles on Warts.
Tweet
Get Quality Natural Health Supplements at Reasonable Prices. $5 or $10 discount for new customers
Get natural, herbal and
homeopathic remedies for hundreds of
health conditions and ailments. GO.
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read. Leave a comment in the box below.
Some Related Warts Pages
Different Types of Warts - Symptoms, Characteristics and Appearances
Warts on Feet - Symptoms and Prevention Tips for Plantar Warts
Natural Wart Removal Treatments and Home Remedies
Home Remedy for Warts Removal - Useful Tips and Natural Treatments
Treating Genital Warts Naturally - Remedies for Relief
What Causes Warts - Contributing Factors and Triggers
Warts and Moles - Features, Characteristics, Comparison
Duct Tape Warts Removal Remedy
Warts on the Face - Treatments and Remedies for Removal
Natural Wart Removal Home Remedies
Genital Warts Medication - Pointers, Tips and Remedies to Note
Removing Genital Warts - Common Treatments
What Do Warts Look Like? - Description of Different Types of Warts
Mouth Warts - What They Are, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment and Remedies
Natural Wart Remover - Useful Home Remedies
Home Remedies for Genital Warts Removal and Treatment
How to Treat Genital Warts - Tips and Treatment Overview
Return from this page to Natural Health Remedies, Natural Health Cures, Organic Remedies & Organic Cures
Return from this page Warts on the Face - Treatments and Remedies for Removal to All 4 Natural Health... attaining good health naturally... Home Page
Get Quality Natural Health Supplements at Affordable Prices. $5 or $10 discount for new customers
[?] Subscribe To This Site
Quality Natural Health Supplements at a Reasonable Price - iHerb Coupon and Referral Code
Tweet
Follow this site
Tweet
Site Search
Home Page
Latest Site Updates
Natural Health News
Introduction;
Basics & Foundation
About Good Health
About Natural Health
Good Health Basics
Food, Diet & Nutrition
Nutrition Articles
Healthy Lifestyle
Body Detoxification
Holistic Therapies
Conditions & Remedies
Natural Remedies
Herbal Remedies
Herbs & Supplements
Info on some Herbs
About Supplements
Best Herbs & Foods
Useful Information
Quotes & Inspiration
Health Articles
Links & Resources
Admin Links
About Me
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Subscribe Newsletter
Contact Us
Site Search
This website's content must not be reproduced or republished without express permission.
Site Search
The information provided on this website is not meant to diagnose, prevent, treat or cure any disease.
It is to be taken as suggestions or educational material and not to be considered professional advice.
Copyright© 2007-2014 All4NaturalHealth.com. All Rights Reserved.
Home | Links & Resources | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Subscribe to E-zine | Site Search | Contact Us
Return to top