Chamomile Tea May Help You Fight Common Cold
Benefits
Jasmine Tea
Oolong Tea
Chamomile Tea
Tea Recipes
Chamomile Tea May Help You Fight Common Cold
Home » Chamomile » Health » Chamomile Tea May Help You Fight Common Cold
Next time you get a runny nose, add chamomile tea to the list of things you take-paracetamols, ibuprofen and what have you-to relieve it.
You should know that there are no recent or significant research based on the effectiveness of chamomile as a common cold treatment.
But, it won’t hurt being optimistic, will it?
David Rakel, MD, writes in his book, Integrated Medicine, that chamomile deserves to be included in botanical therapies for common cold because of its continued used in acute respiratory infections.
Drinking chamomile infusions, such as tea, and inhaling vapors from boiling flower heads can prove to be effective in relieving common cold. This is because of chamomile’s calming effect on the inflamed and irritated mucous membranes in the nose.
Rakel further suggests that you can drink one to two cups of chamomile tea to benefit from it.
Apart from drinking chamomile tea, you can also inhale it. Steam inhalation is one of the most effective and easy ways to get rid of the symptoms of common cold. The hot steam effectively clears your stuffed nose and clears up congested sinuses.[1]
Research suggests that inhaling steam of German chamomile infusion can provide relief from common cold.
In a research published in the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry, fourteen people were given German chamomile tea to drink daily for two weeks. Daily urine examinations showed that there was significant increase in the levels of hippurate, compound associated with improved antibacterial properties. It was concluded that this may be the reason behind the immune system boosting potential of chamomile and consequently fighting infections related to common colds. [2]
For a speedy recovery from common cold, try this.
Steam Inhalation with Chamomile
Things You’ll Need
A big bowl
Towel
2-3 tsps. chamomile flowers or essential oil
Directions
Boil water and pour into a bowl.
Add 2-3 tsps. of chamomile flowers in water and steep for a few minutes.
Or add a few drops of chamomile essential oil.
Place a towel over your head.
Put your face over the bowl (not too close! You don’t want to burn yourself) and cover with towel. Make sure you enclose the whole of the bowl, so no steam can escape.
Inhale slowly.
Things to consider before taking chamomile tea
Chamomile is generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by the FDA. Nonetheless, here are some things you should consider before drinking chamomile tea.
People who have allergic reactions to ragweed, daisies and chrysanthemums can experience reactions to chamomile too.
Chamomile tea acts as mild sedative and causes drowsiness. So, it’s best to avoid it before driving.
There is no substantial research but chamomile is said to cause miscarriages. So, do not drink chamomile if you’re pregnant.
Drinking excessive amounts of chamomile tea can cause vomiting.
Recent Articles
Different Types of Chamomile Tea
Amazing Uses of Chamomile and Chamomile Tea
Chamomile Tea Bags for Eyes
Recent Articles
11 Benefits of Chamomile Tea With Honey
12 Benefits of Chamomile Tea for Health, Skin and Hair
What is Chamomile Tea?
Does Chamomile Tea Help to Reduce Stomach Ache?
TEA RESOURCE
Green Tea
Chamomile Tea
Oolong Tea
Jasmine Tea
ABOUT
About Us
Contact Us
SUBSCRIBE
X
SUBSCRIBE NOW
Subscribe for your daily dose of Green Tea
I don't want to be healthy
X
ENTER YOUR EMAIL TO DOWNLOAD EBOOK
We won't spam you. Promise!
No thanks