Herbal Remedies For Warts - Natural Home Remedies
Skip to content
Main Menu
Home
Links
Menu Toggle
Top Product Comparison
Posts By Category
FAQ
Contact Us
Top Product Comparison
Top Product Comparison
Herbal Remedies For Warts
Herbal Home Remedies for Plantar Warts
There are several home remedies that you can use in treating genital warts. While the medical management of this condition will always involve the assessment and intervention of your doctor, there are natural treatment alternatives which can help hasten the healing process and eliminate the problem. Thus, before you consider drastic or highly invasive medical procedures, such as cryogenic treatment and surgery, it is highly recommended that you consider home remedies that are proven to be safe and effective in treating genital warts.
Aloe Vera
Aloe Vera is a perennial succulent plant with characteristic two foot long leaves. Aloe Vera is native to Africa and grows freely in several African tropical regions. Aloe Vera farms typically grow the leave by taking small rooted sections of the plant and reporting them. Because aloe Vera can be easily grown and propagated, it makes an excellent plantar wart herbal remedy.
Using aloe Vera as a plantar wart herbal remedy is a common home method used to eliminate plantar warts. Aloe Vera must be placed on the plantar wart three times every day for this plantar wart herbal remedy to work effectively. The gel of the plan should be applied to the warts. Aloe Vera can be used in this manner to successfully treat plantar warts within three months of use.
In addition to being one of the best plantar wart herbal remedies, aloe Vera also has several benefits associated with its use. Nearly every form of skin condition can benefit from aloe Vera.
Arbor Vitae
Arbor vitae is an evergreen tree that is indigenous the north-eastern united states. Arbor vitae leaves are used extensively in herbal remedies; including plantar wart herbal remedies. Arbor vitae have natural oil comprised of thujone, flavonoids, mucilage, tannins, and wax. This natural oil helps the immune system recognize and fight the HPV; killing the plantar wart.
When used as an herbal remedy for plantar warts, arbor vitae should be soaked in water to form a tincture. Once the arbor vitae tincture is created, the tincture must be applied to the plantar wart three times daily. The plantar wart should be totally eliminated within three months of use.
Arbor vitae are very effective as an anti-viral, and have been used for more viral health maladies than plantar warts. Although plantar warts are caused by type 1, 2, or 4 of the HPV virus, arbor vitae is also effective against the other forms of HPV. Many herbal remedies for plantar warts can benefit from the inclusion of arbor vitae.
Arbor vitae are occasionally ingested in order to treat polyps and rid the body of HPV. Arbor vitae should not be used while pregnant or breast feeding. Make sure you consult a health professional before you decide to take any herbal remedies for plantar warts.
Tea Tree Oil
The tea tree is an indigenous Australian plant. Tea tree products have been used since the 1920s to treat a wide variety of bacterial and viral health conditions. Tea tree oil has been used successfully as a strong antiviral and has also been shown to effectively treat HPV strains responsible for plantar warts.
Tea tree oil can be used to make a cream, or infusion. Tea tree essential oil (cream or infusion) should be applied directly to the plantar wart daily to rid the body of plantar warts. This herbal remedy for plantar warts should kill HPV with repeated, regular use.
In addition to plantar warts, tea tree oil is also able to treat a wide variety of skin conditions such as acne, other types of HPV related warts, boils, corns, athletes foot, burns, and other injuries to the skin.
Garlic
Garlic is known for its antiviral properties and as such it is considered as a viable alternative treatment for the viral infection that causes genital warts. Treatment regimen may involve the use of raw garlic or the capsulated form. Direct treatment will involve the application of crushed garlic and the treated part of the skin is covered with bandage or gauze for a day or two. Systemic action against the viral infection is attained by taking 2 garlic capsules daily until the genital warts are completely eliminated.
Onion
Onion promotes better blood flow. The condition is attained with the slight irritation of the affected part of the genitalia as a result of its prolonged contact with onions. The sliced onions are held in place by covering the treated part of the genital with bandage or gauze.
Oatmeal Bath
Oatmeal bath can be used to effectively relieve the discomfort and itchiness caused by the genital warts. The fine-powder form of oatmeal is the one that is appropriate for this natural treatment and is readily available in commercial packages in your local store. You can also grind the regular oatmeal in a blender in case oatmeal is not available. Soak for while in a warm bath added with oatmeal to mitigate the discomfort and itchiness associated with the viral problem.
Milkweed Sap
The milky sap of the milkweed plant is reputed to be an effective and safe treatment for genital warts. The sap is extracted by cutting the stem of the milkweed plant to allow the sap to flow out freely. The plant extract is applied directly to the genital warts. The Milkweed sap inhibits the growth of the pathogen that causes genital warts and promotes the healing process in the affected part of the genitalia.
Willow Tree Bark
The bark of the Willow tree is also considered an effective natural treatment for genital warts. The inner section of the tree bark is moistened to attain the desired level of pliability. The moistened tree bark or crushed tree bark is applied to the infected part of the genitalia and held in place using bandage or gauze. Aloe Vera may also be applied to the genital warts as a conjunctive treatment of the willow tree bark.
Liquorice Root
There are also some claims about the curative properties of Liquorice roots. In fact, it is a popular ingredient of several natural treatments for genital warts. The Liquorice root is crushed and then it is tied or applied directly to the infected part of the genitalia for a few days.
Thuja
A scientific report which was recently published in official Website of the San Francisco Botanical Medicine cited the potential therapeutic effect of Thuja on genital warts. While there are no scientific studies that would validate such claims, various anecdotal accounts point to the potential use of this herb in treating this viral infection. This treatment regimen specifically requires the soaking of tampon in a solution containing the herb as well as the application of the Thuja oil extract directly to the affected part of the genitalia. When applied in the proper manner, shrinkage of the warts can be observed after a few weeks of continued treatment.
Hair Dryer
Although warts don’t go away with this approach but using blow dryer as substitute to towel in drying the affected area of the genitalia will minimize irritation and hasten the healing process. However, it is extremely important that the blow dryer is set at the lowest temperature mode to obtain the best results and prevent hurting the genitalia.
Duct Tape
Duct tape for the treatment of genital warts – this may sound to be a bit over-the-top. However, a featured article in the March 2007 issue of the “USA Today” noted that this fascinating yet odd home remedy for genital warts showed positive results in 20 percent of those that tried it. A strip of duct tape is used to cover the genital warts. Remove the duct tape after six days and rub the genital wart using the emery board. Repeat this process until the genital wart is completely gone.
Homeopathic Remedies
Watrol homeopathic wart treatment offers an effective and safe way of eliminating genital warts caused by HPV. You should try this natural treatment before you consider the more aggressive medical interventions such as cryogenic therapy, electrocautery and surgery.
Vitamin E Oil
Vitamin E oil is a potent natural solution for genital warts. This natural treatment involves continued application of the Vitamin E oil until the warts completely disappear. To achieve optimum results, you must cover the affected area of the genitalia with crushed garlic after rubbing it with Vitamin E oil. The recommended dose for this natural concoction is 25,000 IU of the natural Vitamin E source or you may apply fish oil as it is one of the best sources of Vitamin E oil.
Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider vinegar is a popular home remedy for genitals warts. It contains acetic acid and the mode of action is anchored on its corrosive property. Continued exposure of skin tissues to this acidic compound will tend to wear down the abnormal growth in the genitalia. Thus, the treatment regimen using apple cider vinegar would require continued application until the genital wart is completely gone. Prior to the application of apple cider vinegar, it is important that petroleum jelly or Vaseline is applied on the surrounding skin to prevent any interaction be the apple cider vinegar with the healthy skin.
Dandelions
Dandelions can be found almost anywhere so you shouldn’t have trouble finding one. Snap the stem off an inch from the root and squeeze gently between your fingers so that its fluid seeps out onto your wart. Do these on a daily basis, if you have a garden full of dandelions feel free to do it multiple times in a day. Because the sap in dandelions cause mild irritation your immune system will be stimulated into taking action and taking care of the warts.
Banana Peel
Take the skin of a banana and tape a piece inner side down onto the wart and leave it on overnight. The banana peel contains a certain chemical that will dissolve the warts, slowly but surely. You can do the same with lemon peel to discourage spreading. Don’t forget to eat your banana!
Papaya
There is an enzyme which exists in papaya’s that digests dead tissue. Make little slices on the outer surface of the papaya (unripe) and collect all the sap that runs out, once it has coagulated mix it with a little water and apply it to your wart morning and night.
Potato
One method that seems to be a popular remedy is to rub freshly sliced potato on the warts.
Basil Leaves
Take a couple of basil leaves and rub them between your hands then tape them to the warts. Basil leaves contain compounds that kill viruses. Repeat the process on a daily basis for 7 days.
Goldenseal
Goldenseal is an herb which contains compounds capable of fighting off viruses and bacteria. Apply a tincture 5-7 times a day.
Castor Oil
Rubbing castor oil into your wart daily can make warts disappear, seemingly by keeping the wart moist the skin cells just come apart.
Sumanta Mandal
Sumanta Mandal is involved in healthcare market research since 2008. He is passionate about herbal health, organic health and alternative medicines. He has written many articles on various health care topics.
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Quick Links
Privacy Policy
Disclosure
Sitemap
Categories
Categories Select CategoryFace (1)FAQ (6)Finger (1)Genital (1)Hand (1)HPV (1)Plantar (1)Symptom (1)Treatment (2)
Follow Us
Search The Site
Search for:
Disclaimer:
None of the statements made on www.wartremoverstore.com have been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The advices and products mentioned on www.wartremoverstore.com are not intended to diagnose, treat or prevent any diseases. You should consult with your doctor before using any product mentioned on www.wartremoverstore.com.
We may receive commission or other income on certain products. However, this does not impact our reviews and comparisons mentioned on www.wartremoverstore.com. We try our best to keep things fair and balanced, in order to help you make the best choice for you.
Any and all trademarks, logos, brand names and service marks displayed on www.wartremoverstore.com are the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright © 2019 Wart Remover Store
Share via
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Mix
Email
Print
Copy Link
CopyCopied
Powered by Social Snap
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
More Networks