Symptoms of Croup and Natural Remedies for Croup in Children
Skip to content
Main Menu
Common Conditions
Menu Toggle
Allergies & Asthma
Arthritis
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Disorders
Heart Disease
Other Conditions & Treatments
Mental Health
Menu Toggle
ADHD-ADD
Autism / PDD
Depression
OCD
Eating Disorders
Healthy Living
Menu Toggle
Alternative & Natural
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness & Exercise
Women’s Health
Search
Search for:
Natural Health Remedies for Children
Symptoms of Croup and Natural Remedies for Croup in Children
Natural Health Remedies for Children / By Diana Cooper / Alternative Medicine & Natural Healing
Croup
Croup is a condition, normally caused by a virus, that causes the area around the larynx (voice box) to swell. It is more common during the cold months, usually affects small children (especially 1-3 years old), and lasts about 5-6 days.
Symptoms
Symptoms of croup in children include:
fever
hoarseness
harsh, barking cough (similar to the sounds of a barking seal)
restlessness
agitation
noisy inspirations (high-pitched sound)
fast breathing
inspiratory retractions (muscles around the chest pull in when breathing in)
pale skin or bluish tinge around the mouth (from lack of oxygen).
Symptoms are often worse at night or when the child is upset or crying.
Natural Remedies
Most cases of croup in children are not severe (requiring hospitalization) and can be treated at home.
Mist Inhalation
Mist therapy can help decrease swelling (making it easier for your child to breathe).
• Run hot water from the shower with the bathroom door closed (to steam up the room) and sit in there with your child for 10 minutes. This usually provides almost immediate relief.
• If a shower is not available, place a warm, wet washcloth over your child's nose and mouth without suffocating them.
• Sometimes, taking your child outside in cold, steamy air for a few minutes can provide relief.
• Keep a cool-mist vaporizer in your child's room to help prevent attacks.
Other
• Have your child drink plenty of fluids, including water and electrolyte replacement beverages like Pedialyte (avoid drinks that contain caffeine).
• Have your child get plenty of rest and keep them as comfortable as you can.
• Stay calm. When you stay calm it will help keep your child calm.
• Sleep in your child's room so they can feel secure and you can be there in case they have breathing difficulties.
If symptoms of croup in children are severe or they do not respond to home treatment, notify your health care provider.
Disclaimer
Please read this disclaimer regarding the information contained within this article.
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Recent
Vitamin C for Children: Benefits, Dosage, Foods and More
Learning About Umbilical Cord Care and Preservation
Learn about Guided Imagery for Children
Homeopathic Remedies for Teething and its Complications
Healthy Shake and Smoothie Recipes | Delicious and Nutritious
Natural Remedies for Constipation in Children
About | Copyright Policy | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
The material on Healthguideinfo.com is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment from a physician or other qualified health provider.
Copyright © 2019 Health Guide Info. All Rights Reserved.