Patients with diabetes benefited from ADVANCE BP control
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
High Blood Pressure news |
Patients with diabetes benefited from ADVANCE BP control
Dec 02, 2007 Viewed: 688
A combination of perindopril and indapamide reduced the risk of death as well as the risks of heart and kidney disease among patients with diabetes.
The Action in Diabetes and Vascular Diseases (ADVANCE) trial demonstrated a 14% reduction in all-cause mortality and an 18% reduction in the risk for death from CVD.
Stephen MacMahon, DSc, PhD, said that 1.5 million deaths could be prevented if the benefits of the ADVANCE study are applied to half of the world’s patients with diabetes between 2010 and 2015; 246 million people have diabetes in 2007 and an estimated 380 million will have diabetes in 2025 (representing a 55% increase).
MacMahon, professor of cardiovascular medicine and principal director of The George Institute for International Health at the University of Sydney, Australia, presented the results of the trial in a hotline session at the European Society of Cardiology Congress.
ADVANCE control
ADVANCE researchers followed 11,140 patients with diabetes for about four years. Patients were 55 years or older and at high risk for CVD. They already took routine treatments for diabetes, including other BP-lowering agents. Half of the patients were assigned a single tablet of perindopril and indapamide (Preterax, Servier) every day and the other half were assigned placebo.
Since 2000, researchers have sought the answers to questions remaining from the results of the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study: If systolic BP is lowered below 145 mm Hg, are there additional benefits? Are there benefits for patients with and without hypertension? Are there benefits in addition to those benefits from other treatments, such as ACE inhibitors?
During follow-up, in the ADVANCE trial, patients taking the combination tablet had a 5.6 mm Hg reduction in systolic BP to an average 134.7 mm Hg (P<.001) and 2.2 mm Hg reduction in diastolic BP to 74.8 mm Hg compared with placebo (P<.001).
In addition to reducing the risk of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular deaths, the combination reduced CHD events by 14% and the risk of new or worsening kidney disease by 21%. There was no clear reduction in cerebrovascular or diabetic eye events. Researchers saw similar benefits in patients with or without hypertension.
The study results positively answer the three earlier questions, MacMahon said.
A true effect?
Discussant Sidney C. Smith Jr., MD, professor of medicine and director of the Center for Cardiovascular Science and Medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said that despite the impressive nature of the trial, there is no proof that this specific combination works. It did not reduce BP to the guideline-recommended goal for patients with diabetes: 130 mm Hg/ 80 mm Hg.
“We need more data,” Smith said.
“Lowering BP among everyone with diabetes is beneficial,” MacMahon said. “Get as many people on treatment without necessarily trying to reach a goal.”
The overall study is expected to conclude in December.
by Judith Rusk
Cardiology Today
Provided by ArmMed Media
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Hypertension Headlines
Finding the right antithrombotic (anti-clotting)…
Vanderbilt study finds hypertension-related visits…
How healthcare is organized may affect how well…
Enzyme responsible for obesity-related high blood…
Potassium improved blood pressure in teen girls,…
Eating out = high blood pressure?
Prolonged shortened sleep increases blood pressure…
Visceral Fat and Hypertension: A Link?
ATS releases guidelines on the management of pulmonary…
Slightly elevated blood pressure also tied to…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
High Blood Pressure Topics
High Blood Pressure
Diuretics Effective for People with Diabetes and High Blood…
Diuretics best BP therapy for blacks
What You Should Know About How Smoking Could Cause High…
Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
Doses of high blood pressure drugs needed in winter
Researchers discover link between common sleep disorder…
One Size Doesn’t Fit All When Treating Blood Pressure…
Blood Pressure Drug Telmisartan Shows Powerful Activity…
For High-Blood-Pressure Patients, Preventing or Reducing…
Study hints at promise of new Novartis heart drug
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
HDL Cholesterol
New Method Speeds Up Gene Discovery, Pinpoints Cholesterol…
Astra’s Crestor drug fails to beat Pfizer’s…
Researchers Find New Way to Clear Cholesterol From the Blood
New research shows neuroprotective effect of lovastatin
Balance of “good” fats may help lower cholesterol
Older American Women Better Informed About Cholesterol than…
Specialized treatment helps cholesterol patients who suffer…
Lowering Cholesterol Early in Life Could Save Lives
Diet Important to Lower Cholesterol Even When Taking Medication
Pills containing plant sterols lower LDL cholesterol
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved