Evening Primrose Oil Eczema Treatment Review
Evening Primrose Oil Eczema Treatment Review
Home » Herbal Remedies » Evening Primrose »
Many natural healing remedies are yet unproven by science, even though those interested in alternative health have sung their praises for decades. Evening primrose oil benefits however, have some basis in clinical trials and studies that suggest that it is, in fact, and effective agent for treating the common skin condition eczema.
Evening primrose oil eczema treatments are not a new notion. It’s an ancient remedy for many ails and is commonly used in many commercial cosmetic products such as organic evening primrose oil creams and balms. This wildflower has been used by Native Americans for centuries to treat bruising, but today is used for everything from skin conditions to premenstrual symptoms. So what’s the secret behind evening primrose oil eczema treatments? Fatty acids!
The true relief of evening primrose eczema treatments lays in their ability to reduce the itchiness associated with many common skin conditions, and commonly, eczema. In fact, a rather large study consisting of over 1,200 afflicted individuals found that swelling, itching, scaling and redness were all reduced by evening primrose eczema treatments. 30 similar studies have been conducted all pointing to EPO as an effective remedy for this obnoxious skin malady.
3-4 grams daily is the recommended evening primrose oil dosage, but this should be discussed with your health care provider before taking. All medicines from nature carry the risk of side effects and interactions with medications and health conditions. As such, it’s imperative that you speak to your health care provider before using evening primrose oil eczema treatments. Headache, upset stomach, and diarrhea are the most commonly reported evening primrose oil side effects, however it is typically safe and the associated side effects are normally mild. In some cases however, such as in people with bleeding disorders or schizophrenia, evening primrose oil can be deemed unsafe.
Overall, most people who have used evening primrose oil for skin conditions have found it to be effective in treating some of the more unpleasant symptoms in health issues such as eczema. Symptom relief is common in many users, and given the size of many of the conducted studies, it’s safe to say that evening primrose oil will not be losing its status as an effective remedy for skin ails anytime soon.
0 0 0 0
evening primrose oil benefits, evening primrose oil dosage, evening primrose oil eczema, evening primrose oil side effects, organic evening primrose oil
Related Links
Recent Articles
Ankylosing Spondylitis Diagnosis and Treatment Options
Liver Fibrosis Symptoms and Alcoholism
Root Canal Alternative Treatments: Pros and Cons
Lower Blood Pressure Fast Naturally – What Products To Use?
Online Menstrual Cycle Calculator – Which One Is The Most Accurate?
Our Facebook Page
Our Google Plus Community
Health Topics
Heart Health
Digestive Health
Immune System
Ear, Nose and Throat
Bronchi and Lungs
Neurology
Mental Health
Blood Disorders
Cancer Types
Vision Problems
Dental Health
Speech Pathology
Skin Care
Rheumatic Diseases
Rectal Pain
Urinary System
Kidney Diseases
Glands and Hormones
Womens Health
Foot Problems
Orthopedic Surgery
Plastic Surgery
Stem Cells
Substance Abuse
Weight Loss
Healthy Diets
Dietary Supplements
Alternative Therapies
Herbal Remedies
Disclaimer
The information provided herein is intended for a general knowledge only and is not a substitute for medical advice or a treatment for specific medical conditions. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information. Always consult with your doctor or other professional healthcare provider for a medical advice.
Popular Articles
Top 10 Cloudy Urine Causes
Rooster Comb Injections vs. Knee Replacement
5 Reasons Why You May Be Coughing Up Yellow Mucus
Blood on Toilet Paper after Bowel Movement – What Is Causing It?
Top 10 Foods that Increase Blood Circulation
10 Best Orthopedic Surgeons in US
Torn Labrum Surgery – 10 Things You Need to Know
7 Things to Know about Rotator Cuff Surgery Recovery
Top 10 Best High Protein Low Carb Foods
Top 10 Natural Blood Thinners for Thick Blood
About
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© 2019 Health Articles 101