Natural remedies | Migraine.com
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Forums
Natural Remedies
Natural remedies
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
By Ann12 June 6, 2011 at 2:41 am
I started getting migraines with auras about a year and a half ago. My migraines keep getting worse. Has anyone tried any natural remedies and have they worked? I am thinking about trying acupuncture.
reply
By melissadwyer13 June 6, 2011 at 10:56 am
It didn’t work for me, but I have heard people have success with it! I also tried going off all prescriptions and doing only herbal treatments.. but I haven’t found success in anything from literally every med to Botox.. it might work for you.. everyone reacts differently to different treatments! good luck!
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg June 20, 2011 at 5:51 am
Ann12,
I did do acupuncture for a while. You should understand that it doesn’t work as a preventive with just one treatment. It may take several to get the full benefit. I’m still not sure I really saw much that was helpful that way, but I was chronic and in a very bad place at the time. I have definitely seen it do some miraculous stuff – on others and myself.
reply
By tlperkins January 3, 2012 at 3:43 pm
Has anyone tried Salmon Oil Plus? I read a testimonial about it.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg January 5, 2012 at 7:59 pm
I have done Krill oil and fish oil, but not that brand specifically. I do however eat salmon very frequently. Matter of fact, I’m making it right now for lunch! Beautiful wild caught fillets 🙂 MMMmmmmmm
reply
By Anonymous January 24, 2012 at 1:29 am
I am new to this site, and I would like to know some ways on how to prevent migraines naturally. I have tried magnesium supplements (my magnesium levels are normally low), but I have only been on the supplement for about 2 weeks. I have also heard that riboflavin can help. I have been to the chiropractor about my migraines, and it helped when I was going regularly, but now I can’t afford to go as often. I have had a reaction to many migraine prevention medications and can’t take pretty much any of them. I need something more gentle and natural to prevent these things.
reply
By Anonymous January 24, 2012 at 4:32 pm
Natural supplements like Magnesium, Riboflavin and Coenzyme Q10 work great for aura prevention, not necessarily the migraine itself. Feverfew has actually not been shown to be effective in studies and something called butterbur (Petadolex brand) can work.
These supplements should be tried for a few months before determining if they failed. (Ask your doctor before starting them)
reply
By Anonymous January 27, 2012 at 12:31 am
Thanks for the advice! I’ll talk to the doctor and see if I can try anything else along with the magnesium. A week ago, I just started to take a tbsp of hemp oil a day for my fibromyalgia once a day because it’s high in omega 3. I like it a lot better than fish oil and flax seed oil. I have heard it is high in riboflavin, so it may help.
reply
By melissah528 January 27, 2012 at 3:40 am
Has anyone ever gained weight while taking Riboflavin? I’m currently taking 400 mg daily for prevention and am just curious. Thanks!
reply
By rachmelrose January 28, 2012 at 11:43 pm
I’m trying to withdraw from my sumatriptan because I appear to be suffering chronic migraines as a result of overuse. Does anyone have suggestions for other ways I can manage the pain without my medication so I can get through the next couple of days?
reply
By christinajane January 29, 2012 at 5:02 pm
I have tried almost everything: chiropractice, physical therapy, tmj mouth appliances, acupuncture, massage, yoga, exercise, magnesium, fish oil, riboflavin, herbs and other supplements, triptans, narcotics, iv treatments and even botox. Nothing really helped much except botox. Then recently, the migraines started getting worse, even after botox. My neurologist wanted me to come in for IV treatments which uses a combo of magnesium, zofran, benadryl and steroids. It did help in the past for a bad flare up, but I didn’t want to pay thousands for it. I started taking steroid tablets from my Dr, which did little. A few days later I bought powder a magnesium from the healthfood store called Natural Calm by Natural Vitality. I took a large dose mixed with water and with in minutes, the migraine was gone. I still get them, but the frequency and duration is much less and much more manageable. I had tried other magnesium forms, including magnesium oxide in a tablet and it did nothing. The water soluble powder is absorbed much faster and made all the difference. I hope this helps!
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg February 3, 2012 at 2:46 am
CHRISTINAJANE – CALM is the magnesium supplement I use too. It is the only one I found that I not only tolerate well, but get very quick results from. I also have real trouble with tablets, and this bypasses all problems with that. I get the flavored CALM. It’s not too bad actually! Unfortunately it doesn’t work as well for me as it does you it seems, but it is an important part of my life now…
reply
By Bond June 3, 2012 at 4:57 pm
I’ve been using a migraine supplement called Pretreat Complete for over a year now. I’ve gone off of all my preventative meds (I never found anything that did much without the side effects being overwhelming anyway). It has high doses of riboflavin, magnesium, butterbur, coq10 and D3. My neurologist had wanted me to take high doses of these, and pretreat happened to have all of the supplements he suggested and in the same doses. Has anyone else tried this? I’d be curious to know whether it’s all in my head, but I feel like they help.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg June 4, 2012 at 6:04 am
Bond – research has shown that each of these individual ingredients may be helpful for some people in not only preventing Migraine attacks, but also keeping pain thresholds as high as possible. My caution is to be sure that your doctor knows the dosage of each ingredient so down the line he/she doesn’t accidentally try to give you something that will react with it. OTC does not mean safe, and vitamins are toxic when you reach certain levels of them. But for now, it sounds like you’ve found something that is helping you. Does it really matter if it is a placebo effect or not, so long as you are benefiting from it? I think its likely you have hit on something that is physically helping you. I’m so happy you’ve found something so relatively easy! 🙂
reply
By tammay November 23, 2012 at 6:51 am
Wow! These are some great suggestions. I have the Natural Calm website bookmarked to check out (I’m not in the States right now, so it’s hard for me to order something and have it shipped, as customs takes a bundle!)
As for me, I’m still trying to experiment, but my sister (who also suffers from migraines) told me that she has started taking some supplements together that have helped ease the frequency and intensity of her migraines. She takes magnesium, B6, and acidophilus 2x a day. I have a very hectic time right now so I did buy the supplements but do not take them regularly, so I can’t vouch if they have helped me or not (though I haven’t seen a particular increase in migraines for me) but it’s worth a shot.
I have also been amazed lately that my grandmother (who suffered from migraines) old remedy of a cold compress actually often works! I cut a kitchen towel in half lengthwise and rinse one half in cold water and squeeze the heck out of it. Then I fold it in thirds and wrap it around my head and just set my head down on a pillow. If the compress is firm enough around my head and I lay there for about 30 minutes, the migraine usually goes away, even if it is a bad one. It doesn’t always work, but it works much more frequently than I expected.
Lesson learned: remember what grandma taught you :D.
reply
By arielwright111 February 13, 2013 at 7:45 am
Very useful information and thanks a lot for sharing with us.I found your website perfect for my needs. It contains wonderful and helpful topic. I have read most of them and learned a lot from them. The best part is that the ayurvedic home remedies made from essential oils have almost no side effects.
[Content edited for spam]
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg February 14, 2013 at 5:46 pm
rotemmay – There are a lot of old wives tales out there re: Migraine and headache treatment and management strategies. Remember Jack and Jill who used vinegar and brown paper when they conked their heads, lol?
That said, I am super glad you’ve found this to be helpful. It seems like there are two schools of thought on temperature. Some like it cold, others like it hot. I’m usually a heat girl myself, however there are an odd few attacks where something cool is right up my alley! I’m in the process of finishing up a post on cold therapy. I hope you’ll tune in soon when it goes live!
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg February 14, 2013 at 5:48 pm
arielwright111 – Essential oils can be ever so helpful for some patients. Others have terrible osmophobia and even the slightest odor can trigger a Migraine, so, as with all other treatments, it won’t be for everyone.
There are certain essential oils that do need to be used with extreme caution. For example, peppermint oil MUST be diluted, and should never be used during pregnancy. All good info to have 🙂
reply
By Teania February 22, 2013 at 7:19 am
Does anyone know where to get Riboflavin? Also know as Vitamin B-2. I can’t find it at Target or at Walgreens where I get my prescriptions. Would it be found in a healthfood store or should I try to order it?
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg February 23, 2013 at 5:14 am
Teania – Our Walgreens carries B2 in several different brands. As to what brand to use, not all brands are created equally I’m afraid. I subscribe to Consumer Labs which is like Consumer Reports for supplements. The lab tests different brands and lets you know if they passed the tests for potency, dissolveability, and purity, among other things. If you’re interested in supplements for your Migraines, I encourage patients to consider getting access to these important reports that will help you be sure you’re getting a quality product. There may be other companies out there that do the same thing. This is the one I know about and deal with myself, so am familiar with.
reply
By Laurie Vincent April 4, 2013 at 11:39 pm
Some of the things that prevent Migraines for me is eating a diet that’s very high in fiber – every single day. I eat either oatmeal or homemade Granola every day, plus fresh fruits and vegetables with high fiber. If I don’t do this I am sure to get a Migraine! I avoid breads and pastries. I try not to eat too much sugar. I don’t eat or drink anything with caffeine in it. When I do get a Migraine I drink a glass of Gatorade. It knocks out my Migraine sometimes with just the Gatorade alone. If not, I use peppermint oil lotion (Origins “Peace of Mind” rubbed under my ears and chin, or I burn peppermint and eucalyptus aromatherapy oils with water in a candle lit aromatherapy oil burner. I hope that others can find relief from their Migraine pain by trying some of these natural remedies. I always try these things at first so I don’t have to take any medicine if it can be avoided. 🙂
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg April 6, 2013 at 3:43 am
Laurie Vincent – Thanks so much for letting us know how you use alternative methods to help you get through your attacks.
Gatorade is a little surprise as I’m told it contains MSG which is usually a pretty bad trigger for many of us. However, if your electrolytes and hydration are compromised, I could see where it might give you the boost your body needs. Any way you can keep this in mind and drink more water and eat more food high in electrolytes?
reply
By jerilgreen April 11, 2013 at 5:46 pm
My aunt has migraines and used to take prescription medication until she started drinking Limu Original it has over 77 nutrients and vitamins and a super-nutrient called Fucodian which comes from brown seaweed. It is an all natural and gluten free product. The juice tastes good because it has mango, papaya, apple and pear juice in it. I use the product as well anytime I have a headache I drink about 2 oz and it goes away after 15 minutes or so.
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk April 13, 2013 at 2:12 am Moderator
Thanks for sharing what is working for your aunt, Jeril.
However some of the ingredients in this drink may be triggers for some of us with migraine. That’s the problem with migraine what works for some may not work for everyone! But we keep trying!
reply
Join the conversation! Log in or create an account.
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.