Supplements for Vitiligo_Vitiligo Disease Treatment
FREE INQUIRY Facebook
Contact us
About us
Email:bjzkhospital@gmail.com
SiteMap
Email : bjzkhospital@gmail.com
WhatsApp:008618519108583
Vitiligo Cure Chinese Medicine for Vitiligo
Home
Vitiligo ▼
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Treatment
Psoriasis
Our Hospital▼
Vitiligo Hospital
Psoriasis Hospital
Environment
Equipment
Expert Team
Online Doctor
Healthy Living
Patients Stories
FAQs
Contact us
Home > Skin Disease > Vitiligo > Vitiligo Treatment >
Menu
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Patients Stories
A Malaysian Female Treated In Our Hospital
Indian Vitiligo Patient Treatment Process In Our Hospital
A Mongolia Woman Vitiligo Treatment Experience In Our Hospital
Contact Us
bjzkhospital@gmail.com/a>
008618519108583
bjmeidi
Hot Article
Why Erythrodermic Psoriasis Is Severe Than Other Types Of Psoriasis
Tian An Men Square
What If Vitiligo Patients Eat Eggs
How To Deal With The Dry Skin For Psoriasis Condition
White Patches Disappear: I Can Visit My Girlfriend Family
Does Vitiligo Has Connection With Environment
Can Psoriasis On Hands And Feet Be Cured
Supplements for Vitiligo
In this article, I’d like to introduce some closely relationship between diet and supplements with vitiligo. Some patients suffer from vitiligo or other skin pigmentation issues turns out the disease may not be as random as scientists first thought.
As more studies come to light about vitiligo and the causes of the disease, they are indicating that many of the cases of vitiligo are related to a suppressed immune system and autoimmune disorders. Based on the information from the studies listed below, it is starting to look like diet and supplements can play a huge role in the healing and prevention of the disease. If you suffer from vitiligo, if you taking a look at these studies to find out how you can heal your skin issues naturally and without side effects, you will never disappointed about this.
The causes of vitiligo is related to many factors, such as mental trauma, immune system function disorder, qi and blood disorder, microcirculation disorder and lack of micro elements such as copper, zinc and so on. Diet supplements to treat vitiligo have a great effect to supply the lack elements of your body. The common treatment for vitiligo are phototherapy, steroid cream, make up, surgery and supplements. Some studies have shown that taking certain supplements can slow, stop, and even repair the de-pigmentation of the skin. You can read more about these studies in the next section.
The diet we intake in our daily life contain many elements good for the supply our body micro elements, one of the factor cause vitiligo is the lack of copper cause vitiligo, in the follow part of the article, I’d like to introduce briefly about the common supplements for vitiligo for your reference.
Since vitiligo is related to both loss of melanin and a lowered immune systems, supplements that boost skin health and immunity will help vitiligo in addition to the above studied supplements. Try adding the following supplements to your diet to reduce vitiligo symptoms:
Vitamin B12
Vitamin B12 is essential for the healing of vitiligo as outlined above. It prevents the accumulation of homocysteine in the body and the consequent release of free radicals. B12 acts as a catalyst for the conversion of harmful homocysteine into helpful methionine. This means that the oxidative stress on the skin is reduced, which protects the melanocytes from damage.
Folic Acid or Folate
Folate is the natural form of folic acid, and is easier for the body to use. Folate levels are often low in individuals suffering from vitiligo, as outlined in the studies above. Folate prevents the accumulation of homocysteine and it supplies building blocks to convert tyrosine into melanin.
L-Phenylalanine
This amino acid synthesizes neurotransmitters like epinephrine, dopamine, and norepinephrine. It is also the precursor to tyrosine, which synthesizes melanin into the skin. This treatment method is best when combined with UV light exposure, as outlined in the study above.
Ginkgo biloba
Ginkgo biloba is an antioxidant and an imumomodularoty supplement. It helps to prevent the further progression of vitiligo, as outlined in the study above. When taken in combination with other supplements, ginkgo biloba should stop the progression of the disease and improve skin pigmentation at the same time.
Picrorhiza kurroa
This plant is often used in Ayurvedic medicine to treat immune problems. The plant offers immunomodulatory properties, and in the study outlined above, was proven effective at reducing or eliminating vitiligo symptoms.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C is an all around immune-boosting and regulating material. It is most effective in its natural form, straight from nature. Ascorbic acid is not as effective or absorbable by the body as natural vitamin C. In the University of Alabama study, taking vitamin C orally helped show marked improvement in patients with vitiligo.
These are the common supplements for vitiligo.
Email: bjzkhospital@gmail.com
Skype: bjmeidi
WhatsApp: +86 18519108583
Tag: Vitiligo Vitiligo Treatment
Pre：Herbs and Vitamins for Vitiligo
Next：Vitiligo Breakthrough in 2016
As for you own illness conditions, you can get some guidance related to diet, exercise, medicines or some natural remedies. The online consultation service is free. Please remember to leave your email address, or phone number so that we can contact you and help you!
Please leave the patient's FULL name in case of a duplicate, and to make our doctor give timely response and help.
Full Name：
Country：
Email:
Skype：
Whatsapp:
Viber：
Phone Number：
Disease：
Vitiligo Psoriasis Acne Hair Loss Eczema Dermatitis
Message：
Related Articles
The traditional chinese medicine therapy for vitiligo
Systemic Treatments For Vitiligo Patients
Best Remedies For Vitiligo Patients
Attentions For Patients With Vitiligo On Face
How To Treat Vitiligo Scientifically
Whether The Folk Prescriptions Can Treat Vitiligo
Quick Links
Vitiligo
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Cure
Web map
Treatmet
Chinese Medicine Treatment for Vitiligo
Acupuncture Treatment for Vitiligo
Laser for vitiligo
PUVB
Contact Address
NO 18, Santai Mountain Streat Intersection South, Daxing Dirtrict,China.
Phone
008601087626355
WhatsApp
008618519108583
Email
bjmeidi@hotmail.com
Helpline
0086-01087626355
Follow us
Website content statement: the information on this website is for reference only, and can not be used as a medical basis for diagnosis and treatment.
Friendly Links : Vitiligo Cure