Atopic Dermatitis News & Updates - Drugs.com
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Q & A
Support Groups
Atopic Dermatitis
News
Join the 'Atopic Dermatitis' group to help and get support from people like you.
Atopic Dermatitis News
Related terms: Atopic Eczema, Dermatitis, Atopic, Discoid Eczema, Infantile Eczema
Overview
Questions
News (18)
FDA Approves Dupixent (dupilumab) for Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis in Adolescents
Posted 13 Mar 2019 by Drugs.com
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. and TARRYTOWN, N.Y., March 11, 2019 /PRNewswire/ – The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Dupixent (dupilumab) for adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of age with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies, or when those therapies are not advisable. Dupixent can be used with or without...
Why Do Some Kids With Eczema Develop Food Allergies?
Posted 28 Feb 2019 by Drugs.com
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 27, 2019 – Researchers have added to a growing body of evidence that skin plays a major role in food allergies. Their study of 62 children with eczema found that those with food allergies had skin irregularities not present on others. Those irregularities included a lack of structural proteins needed to retain moisture and produce an effective skin barrier; increases in certain...
Eczema Can Drive People to Thoughts of Suicide: Study
Posted 12 Dec 2018 by Drugs.com
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 12, 2018 – Nearly 28 million Americans are affected by the skin condition eczema, and for some it may become so chronic and severe they consider suicide, new research shows. A new review of data from 15 studies, involving over 300,000 people, found that those with eczema had a 44 percent higher risk of suicidal thoughts compared with people without the immunological disease....
Why Eczema Is Tougher to Treat for Black Patients
Posted 19 Sep 2018 by Drugs.com
WEDNESDAY, Sept. 19, 2018 – Eczema, or atopic dermatitis, can be very difficult to control in some people. But the skin condition, which leads to dry, itchy and inflamed skin, is particularly problematic for black people, according to new research. Scientists who examined patients' skin on a molecular level found that compared to Americans of European ancestry, African Americans may require...
Eczema Dramatically Impacts Quality of Life
Posted 16 Jul 2018 by Drugs.com
MONDAY, July 16, 2018 – Itching, blisters, sores and inflammation are a continuous and debilitating source of pain, shame and misery for many people who struggle with the allergic skin disease known as eczema, researchers say. And a new survey suggests that many of those battling moderate-to-severe eczema suffer from an inability or reluctance to engage in activities and socializing, which leads...
Have Eczema? No Need for Bleach Baths, Study Suggests
Posted 7 Dec 2017 by Drugs.com
THURSDAY, Dec. 7, 2017 – Bathing in water is just as effective for the treatment of eczema as bathing in a bleach solution, a new review of previous research indicates. Doctors sometimes recommend a bleach bath, which is a mixture of a small amount of bleach in a pool of cool or warm water. But investigators say the finding should encourage people with eczema to bathe regularly with just water,...
Prolonged Breast-Feeding May Guard Against Teen Eczema
Posted 13 Nov 2017 by Drugs.com
MONDAY, Nov. 13, 2017 – Encouraging new mothers to stick with breast-feeding may halve the already small risk that infants will develop eczema when they hit their teens, new research suggests. And while the study also found no impact on teenage asthma risk, at least one U.S. pediatrician said other studies have supported the role of breast-feeding in potentially cutting a child's risk of...
Newer Eczema Treatments Offer Relief
Posted 27 Oct 2017 by Drugs.com
FRIDAY, Oct. 27, 2017 – Children and adults with eczema shouldn't suffer in silence because new, improved treatments can do more to help ease the uncomfortable, itchy rash associated with the skin condition. Many adults diagnosed with eczema (atopic dermatitis) actually had the condition since they were children but were never diagnosed, explained Dr. Luz Fonacier. She is an allergist in...
Black Children Missing Out on Eczema Treatment
Posted 13 Oct 2017 by Drugs.com
FRIDAY, Oct. 13, 2017 – Black children may have more severe eczema than white children, but they are less likely to visit a doctor for this common inflammatory skin condition, new research shows. Eczema causes the skin to become red and itchy. Roughly 11 percent of children in the United States are affected by the condition, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention....
Eczema Can Take a Toll on Adults
Posted 27 Jul 2017 by Drugs.com
THURSDAY, July 27, 2017 – The itchy, rashy skin condition eczema sometimes takes a heavier toll on adults than children, an expert says. "Adult eczema patients may have dealt with their symptoms for their entire lives, which can be draining, or they may experience symptoms for the first time as adults, which can be a difficult adjustment," said Dr. Jonathan Silverberg, an assistant professor at...
Silk Clothes Won't Soothe Eczema's Itch
Posted 11 Apr 2017 by Drugs.com
TUESDAY, April 11, 2017 – Although it may feel nice against the skin, new research says silk clothing offers little benefit for kids with eczema. Eczema is a skin condition that can cause a rash and itchiness, and some parents believe that clothing can either worsen or soothe the problem. This prompts some to avoid dressing their children in wool clothes, and instead dress them in only fine...
Dupixent Approved to Treat Eczema
Posted 28 Mar 2017 by Drugs.com
TUESDAY, March 28, 2017 – Dupixent (dupilumab) has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat moderate-to-severe eczema that isn't well controlled by topical medication. Eczema, medically called atopic dermatitis, is a chronic disease that causes inflammation of the skin, leading to red, scaly patches. The patches of itchy skin – when scratched – can lead to swelling,...
FDA Approves Dupixent (dupilumab) for Eczema
Posted 28 Mar 2017 by Drugs.com
March 28, 2017 – The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Dupixent (dupilumab) injection to treat adults with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis). Dupixent is intended for patients whose eczema is not controlled adequately by topical therapies, or those for whom topical therapies are not advisable. Dupixent can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. “FDA’s app...
FDA Approves Eucrisa (crisaborole) for Eczema
Posted 15 Dec 2016 by Drugs.com
December 14, 2016 – The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Eucrisa (crisaborole) ointment to treat mild to moderate eczema (atopic dermatitis) in patients two years of age and older. Atopic dermatitis, a chronic inflammatory skin disease, is often referred to as "eczema," which is a general term for the several types of inflammation of the skin. Atopic dermatitis is the most common...
Can Protein in Common Skin Bacteria Offer Disease Protection?
Posted 23 Nov 2016 by Drugs.com
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 23, 2016 – Our most common skin bacteria may help shield us from some skin diseases, a new study suggests. Swedish researchers report that Propionibacterium acnes secretes a protein called RoxP that protects against bacteria that are believed to contribute to several skin disorders. Specifically, RoxP protects against skin cell damage called oxidative stress caused by reactive...
1
2
Next
Ask a Question
Type your Question
Further Information
Related Condition Support Groups
Dermatitis
Related Drug Support Groups
prednisone, methylprednisolone, clobetasol, dexamethasone, fluocinonide, desonide, Kenalog, Imuran, desoximetasone, MethylPREDNISolone Dose Pack, Elocon
Sign In or Register
Support Groups
Top 100 groups
Groups by medication
Groups by condition
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.