SickKids researchers determine humidity is an ineffective therapy for moderate to severe cases of croup
Hospital
Research
Learning Home
Contact us
Getting to SickKids
Newsroom
Directory
Events calendar
Coming to Emergency
Coming for surgery
Coming for a clinic appointment
Staying at SickKids
Getting to SickKids/Parking
Visitor Resources
Infection Prevention and Control
Visiting a patient
Accessibility
Safety info for families
Areas of Care
Clinics Directory
Specialties
Centres
Patient and family resources
AboutKidsHealth
Child and Family-Centred Care
Child Life
Creative Arts Therapy
Epilepsy Classroom
Paediatric Advanced Care Team
Health Records inquiries
Resource Navigation Service
Patient safety
Patient and Family Rights and Responsibilities
Privacy
International Patient Program
Recommended reading
MyChart
SickKids mobile apps
Careers and Volunteering
Careers
Volunteering
Health-care Professionals
Clinical practice guidelines
Referring a patient
Nursing
Residents and fellows
Paediatric Laboratory Medicine
Paediatric Project ECHO
Kids Health Alliance
Training opportunities
Recommended reading
SickKids mobile apps
About SickKids
Message from the President and CEO
Who we are
Annual Report
Newsroom
eNewsletter
Perspective
Directory
Events calendar
History and milestones
Indigenous Health Strategy
Strategy and performance
Project Horizon: Our Future Campus
Accountability
Donations and Ways to Give
Worldwide activities
Tours
Contact us
About SickKids
Past news
Media relations contacts and policies
Canada 150
Hospital
About SickKids
Newsroom
Listen
March 14, 2006
SickKids researchers determine humidity is an ineffective therapy for moderate to severe cases of croup
TORONTO -- Researchers at The Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) have determined that humidity is an ineffective therapy for the common childhood ailment croup. This research is reported in the March 15, 2006 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association.
Viral croup is the most common childhood cause of upper airway obstruction in children. In adults the infection may manifest as laryngitis, but because of the smaller size and shape of their airway, children tend to show the signs of croup. Croup commonly occurs in spring and fall and is characterized by a cough that sounds like the bark of a seal or a dog.
“Humidity has long been a treatment to relieve the symptoms of croup, however there has previously been very little evidence-based research to confirm that it is an effective therapy and there can be risks associated with this type of treatment,” said the study's lead author, Dr. Dennis Scolnik, a physician in the Divisions of Emergency Services and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology and project director at SickKids, and an assistant professor of Paediatrics at the University of Toronto. “Patients can be at risk of burns from the steam and wheezing or electrolyte abnormalities can occur in infants. Because of these risks, we felt that it was important that the positive effects of humidification be substantial enough to warrant its ongoing use.”
A randomized trial of 140 children with moderate to severe croup between the ages of three months and 10 years of age was conducted between 2001 and 2004 in the SickKids Emergency Department. The study found that humidity did not result in a greater improvement in symptoms than a placebo.
“Even optimally sized water particles designed to deposit in the upper airway, where the inflammation occurs in croup, failed to bring about any improvement in the croup score,” added Scolnik. “Humidity may still have its uses in the very mild and very severe cases of croup who were not recruited in this study.”
The study also found that 36 per cent of the patients in the study had their symptoms resolve spontaneously.
The research team recommends that comforting a child who is experiencing an attack of croup helps calm them enough to ride the attack out. Otherwise, bundling them up and taking them out into colder outside air may help. More severe attacks may warrant a trip to the doctor or emergency room where steroids or inhaled epinephrine may be employed to open up the airway.
Other researchers involved in this paper include Dr. Allan Coates, Zelia Da Silva, Dr. Elana Lavine, Dr. Suzanne Schuh and Derek Stephens, all from SickKids.
This research was funded by the Physicians’ Services Incorporates Foundation of Ontario and SickKids Foundation.
SickKids Foundation is the largest non-governmental granting agency in child health in Canada. Established in 1972, the Foundation has granted over $500 million to The Hospital for Sick Children and over $65 million to researchers across the country. The mission of the Foundation is to inspire our communities to invest in health and scientific advances to improve the lives of children and their families across Canada and around the world. If you would like to make more research possible at SickKids, please make a donation .
The Hospital for Sick Children, affiliated with the University of Toronto, is Canada’s most research-intensive hospital and the largest centre dedicated to improving children’s health in the country. Its mission is to provide the best in family-centred, compassionate care, to lead in scientific and clinical advancement, and to prepare the next generation of leaders in child health. For more information, please visit www.sickkids.ca.
Select one... Centre for Brain & Mental Health Centre for Genetic Medicine Centre for Healthy Active Kids Cystic Fibrosis Centre Garron Family Cancer Centre The Centre for Global Child Health Image-Guided Care Centre Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Centre Labatt Family Heart Centre Pain Centre Transplant and Regenerative Medicine Centre
Finding new ways of working together, with the ultimate goal of integrating research, education and clinical care to improve children's health.
Health A-Z by AboutKidsHealth
Quick search by first letter
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Kids Health Alliance
Improving health care access to coordinated, consistent high-quality care for children and their families
Support SickKids
Your donation makes a difference. Support SickKids and help us achieve
our vision of: Healthier Children. A Better World.
Visit www.sickkidsfoundation.com
Visiting SickKids
Areas of Care
Patient and family resources
Careers and Volunteering
Health-care Professionals
About SickKids
Sitemap
iLearn
MyChart
MyPortal
Healthier Children. A Better World.™
Copyright © 1999-2019 The Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids). All rights reserved.
The Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) is a health-care, teaching and research centre dedicated exclusively to children; affiliated with the University of Toronto. For general inquires please call: 416-813-1500.
Contact SickKids
Terms of Use
View Mobile Site
Please note: Some of the content photography on this website is being used for illustrative purposes only and any person depicted in the content is a model.