Modern Accessories | Reduce Your Asthma With Yoga
Modern Accessories
Main menu
Skip to content
Home
Search for:
Reduce Your Asthma With Yoga
Posted on February 17, 2019 by blue
Yoga has been a revelation for many people. They have found that they can improve the quality of their life with the power of yoga. Yoga combines both physical and mental activities, so it engages your whole body rather than just part of it. Some of the benefits of yoga include better breathing, easier relaxation and relief from the symptoms of asthma.
The reason that yoga can help with your asthma is that by using yoga, you will get your body back to a more natural state. Both your body and your mind will be less stressed.
Relaxation and deep breathing were made for each other. Both of them help you to calm down, clear your mind and re-energize your body. By spending a few minutes taking slow, controlled breaths and paying attention to your breathing rather than taking it for granted, you will notice that your breathing automatically becomes calmer. Rather than it’s “normal”, hyper-active state. In turn, this will bring more energy into your body and calm you down.
Try out this simple breathing relaxation exercise. Read the instructions through a couple of times and then start.
1. Sit down, making sure that your posture is good and your spine is straight as possible.
Place your feet flat on the floor and check that your knees are directly over your feet. Place your hands on top of your legs.
2. Gently close your eyes.
3. Concentrate your thoughts on your ribs and your lungs. Inhale slowly and deeply. Notice your lungs filling up and your ribs expanding outwards and upwards. Then slowly exhale, again noticing your lungs slowly releasing the air you’ve just breathed in and your ribs gradually going back in and down.
4. Repeat this routine once a day for up to 3 minutes when you first start out. Over the coming days, gradually increase up to 5 and then 10 minutes throughout the day as necessary.
Yoga breathing exercises have been shown to help sufferers of mild asthma. You may still need your medication and any other health devices, although you should notice that you need them less and less as you practice these techniques.
This entry was posted in Health and Fitness. Bookmark the permalink.
Post navigation
← Previous
Next →
Search for:
Recent Posts
Mind and Spirit By Practicing Hatha Yoga
Reduce Your Asthma With Yoga
Characteristics of a Great Travel Companion
Ways to Earn Money Blogging
Attraction Marketing:Revised
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
February 2018
January 2018
September 2017
August 2017
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
Categories
Business Service
Health and Fitness
Jewelry
Travel and Leisure
Uncategorised
Uncategorized
Copyright 2019 Modern Accessories - All Rights Reserved