Iron in your pregnancy diet | BabyCenter
advertisement
Expert Advice Home
Log in or Sign up
COMMUNITY
GETTING PREGNANT
PREGNANCY
BABY
TODDLER
PRESCHOOLER
BIG KID
HEALTH
VIDEO
PRODUCTS & GEAR
FOR YOU
Join now to personalize
BabyCenter for your pregnancy
Pregnancy
Nutrition & Weight
Eating Well
Iron in your pregnancy diet
Written by BabyCenter Staff
Reviewed by the BabyCenter Medical Advisory Board
Updated September 2016
IN THIS ARTICLE
Why you need iron during pregnancy
How much iron you need
Food sources of iron
Making the most of the iron you eat
Should you take an iron supplement?
What happens if you don't get enough iron
Can you get too much iron?
Side effects of iron supplements
Why you need iron during pregnancy
Even before you're pregnant, your body needs iron for several reasons:
It's essential for making hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to other cells.
It's an important component of myoglobin (a protein that helps supply oxygen to your muscles), collagen (a protein in bone, cartilage, and other connective tissue), and many enzymes.
It helps maintain a healthy immune system.
But during pregnancy you need a lot more of this essential mineral. Here's why:
The amount of blood in your body increases during pregnancy until you have almost 50 percent more blood than usual. You need extra iron to make more hemoglobin.
You need extra iron for your growing baby and placenta, especially in the second and third trimesters.
Many women need more because they start their pregnancy with insufficient stores of iron.
Iron-deficiency anemia during pregnancy is associated with preterm delivery, low birth weight, and infant mortality.
How much iron you need
Pregnant women: 27 milligrams (mg) of iron per day
Nonpregnant women: 18 mg
You don't have to get the recommended amount of iron every day. Instead, aim for that amount as an average over the course of a few days or a week.
Food sources of iron
There are two forms of iron: heme and non-heme. Heme iron is found only in animal sources and is easier for your body to absorb. Non-heme iron is found in plants, iron-fortified foods, and supplements. Red meat, poultry, and seafood contain both heme and non-heme iron. To make sure you're getting enough, eat a variety of iron-rich foods every day.
Red meat, poultry, and fish are some of the best sources of iron. (Liver supplies a very high concentration of iron, but it also contains unsafe amounts of vitamin A, so it's best to limit it to one or two servings a month during pregnancy.) If your diet doesn't include animal protein, you can get iron from legumes, vegetables, and grains.
Amount of heme iron in a 3-ounce serving of common animal protein sources:
(Note that 3 ounces of meat is about the size of a deck of cards.)
3 ounces lean beef, chuck: 3.2 mg
3 ounces lean beef, tenderloin: 3.0 mg
3 ounces roast turkey, dark meat: 2.0 mg
3 ounces roast turkey, breast meat: 1.4 mg
3 ounces roast chicken, dark meat: 1.1 mg
3 ounces roast chicken, breast meat: 1.1 mg
3 ounces light tuna, canned: 1.3 mg
3 ounces pork, loin chop: 1.2 mg
Amount of non-heme iron in common plant sources:
1 cup iron-fortified ready-to-eat cereal: 24 mg
1 cup fortified instant oatmeal: 10 mg
1 cup edamame (soybeans), boiled: 8.8 mg
1 cup lentils, cooked: 6.6 mg
1 cup kidney beans, cooked: 5.2 mg
1 cup chickpeas: 4.8 mg
1 cup lima beans, cooked: 4.5 mg
1 ounce pumpkin seeds, roasted: 4.2 mg
1 cup black or pinto beans, cooked: 3.6 mg
1 Tablespoon blackstrap molasses: 3.5 mg
1/2 cup firm tofu, raw: 3.4 mg
1/2 cup spinach, boiled: 3.2 mg
1 cup prune juice: 3.0 mg
One slice whole wheat or enriched white bread: 0.9 mg
1/4 cup raisins: 0.75 mg
Making the most of the iron you eat
You don't need to eat a big slab of meat to satisfy your daily iron requirement. Adding just a little meat or fish to a meal helps your body absorb more of the iron in the other foods on your plate.
Here are a few more tips for getting as much iron as possible from your diet:
Cook in a cast iron pan. Moist, acidic foods, such as tomato sauce, are especially good at soaking up iron this way.
Include a source of vitamin C (like orange juice, strawberries, or broccoli) with every meal, especially when eating vegetarian sources of iron, like beans – the vitamin C can help you absorb up to six times more iron.
Many healthy foods contain "iron inhibitors," which are naturally occurring substances that can interfere with iron absorption. Examples of iron inhibitors include phytates in whole grains and legumes, polyphenols in coffee and tea, oxalates in soy foods and spinach, and calcium in dairy products.
If you have low iron or iron-deficiency anemia, some experts believe you shouldn't eat iron-inhibiting foods at the same time as iron-rich foods. Others believe it's okay to eat these foods together as long as your overall diet includes plenty of iron-rich and vitamin C-rich foods. Your provider or a dietitian can work with you to create a prenatal nutrition plan that supports healthy iron levels.
If your provider has prescribed iron supplements, take them one hour before or two hours after meals because iron is absorbed most easily on an empty stomach. Taking the supplement with orange juice – which is high in iron-enhancing vitamin C – can boost absorption. (But don't take your iron pill with milk, coffee, or tea because these can interfere with iron absorption.)
Calcium also hinders iron absorption, so if your provider has recommended you take both an iron and a calcium supplement (or antacids that contain calcium), ask for advice on how to space them out during the day.
Should you take an iron supplement?
Although your body absorbs iron more efficiently during pregnancy, you might not get enough of the mineral from your diet. Many women start their pregnancy without enough iron to meet their body's increased demands and are unable to bring their levels up through diet alone.
At your first prenatal appointment, your healthcare provider will probably recommend a prenatal vitamin with about 30 mg of iron. Unless you have (or develop) anemia, this should be sufficient, so don't take additional supplements unless your provider advises you to.
What happens if you don't get enough iron
When you don't get enough iron, your stores become depleted over time. And if you no longer have enough iron to make the hemoglobin you need, you become anemic.
Iron-deficiency anemia can sap your energy and cause many other symptoms, especially if you have a severe case. It can also make it harder for your body to fight infection.
It may even impact your pregnancy: Iron-deficiency anemia – especially in early or midpregnancy – has been linked to a greater risk of preterm birth, having a low-birth-weight baby, and fetal or newborn death. See our complete article on iron-deficiency anemia.
If you're anemic when you give birth, you're more likely to need a transfusion and have other problems if you lose a lot of blood at delivery. And some research suggests an association between maternal iron deficiency and postpartum depression.
Your baby does a good job of taking care of his iron needs while he's in your uterus. He'll get his share of what's available before you do. That said, if you're severely anemic, it may compromise your baby's iron stores at birth, raising his risk for anemia later in infancy and possibly hurting his growth and cognitive development.
Can you get too much iron?
Yes. Aim to get no more than 45 milligrams of iron a day. If you take more than that (either from an extra iron supplement or from your prenatal vitamin), it can cause your blood levels of iron to rise too high, possibly causing problems for you and your baby.
For example, too much iron can increase your risk of developing gestational diabetes or oxidative stress, an imbalance in the body that's thought to play a role in infertility, preeclampsia, and miscarriage, and has been linked to heart disease and high blood pressure. Take iron supplements during pregnancy only under the supervision of your healthcare provider.
Side effects of iron supplements
Iron supplements can upset your gastrointestinal tract. The most common complaint is constipation, which is already a problem for many pregnant women. Try drinking prune juice if you're constipated. It can help you stay regular – and is actually a good source of iron!
You may also have nausea or (more rarely) diarrhea. If your supplement makes you feel queasy, try taking it with a small snack or at bedtime.
Talk to your provider if you're experiencing other side effects – if you're not anemic and your prenatal vitamin has more than 30 mg of iron, it may make sense for you to switch to one with a lower dose.
If you are anemic, you may be able to prevent stomach problems by starting with a supplement that has less iron and gradually building up to the dose you need. You could also try taking the iron in smaller doses throughout the day. Your provider may suggest trying different iron supplements to find one that's easy on your stomach. For example, some moms-to-be have fewer side effects from a timed-release iron supplement, although the trade-off is that the iron isn't absorbed as well this way.
Finally, don't worry if your stools look darker when you start taking iron. That's a normal and harmless side effect.
Show sources
Hide sources
ACOG. 2015. Nutrition during pregnancy. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. http://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Nutrition-During-Pregnancy [Accessed September 2016]
AND. 2015. Top tips for eating right during pregnancy. Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. http://www.eatright.org/resource/health/pregnancy/what-to-eat-when-expecting/eating-right-during-pregnancy [Accessed September 2016]
Beck L, et al. 2014. Dietary determinants of and possible solutions to iron deficiency for young women living in industrialized countries: A review. Nutrients 6(9): 3747-3776. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4179187/ [Accessed September 2016]
LPI. 2016. Iron. Linus Pauling Institute. http://lpi.oregonstate.edu/infocenter/minerals/iron/index.html [Accessed September 2016]
ODS. 2016. Dietary supplement fact sheet: Iron. Office of Dietary Supplements. https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Iron-HealthProfessional/ [Accessed September 2016]
UpToDate. 2016. Treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in adults. http://www.uptodate.com/contents/treatment-of-iron-deficiency-anemia-in-adults [Accessed September 2016]
page continues below
advertisement | page continues below
View comments (21)
advertisement
Featured video
All pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos >
advertisement
You might also like
Vitamin C in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need vitamin C when you're pregnant, how much vitamin C you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources, and when y...
Calcium in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need calcium when you're pregnant, how much calcium you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources, and when you n...
Iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy
When you have iron-deficiency anemia (IDA), the right information can help you have a healthy pregnancy. Find out the symptoms...
Protein in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need protein when you're pregnant, how much protein you need in your pregnancy diet, and which foods to eat to ge...
Vitamin D in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need vitamin D when you're pregnant, how much you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources, and when you need a...
Folic acid: Why you need it before and during pregnancy
Learn why folic acid (folate) is so important before and during pregnancy, which foods are high in folic acid, signs of a folic...
Managing iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy
Managing iron-deficiency anemia during pregnancy can feel daunting: Find out more about tests, how much iron you need, and whic...
Zinc in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need zinc when you're pregnant, how much zinc you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources of zinc, and when you...
Vitamin A in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need vitamin A when you're pregnant, how much vitamin A you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources, and when y...
Syphilis during pregnancy
Find out why you'll be tested for syphilis during pregnancy, what can happen to you and your baby if you have this sexually tra...
Load more
Freebies & Coupons
Get coupons
Editor's picks
Is it safe to take opioids for a c-section?
0:29
Is it safe to have sex during my pregnancy?
See the hottest baby name trends
advertisement
Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app
ABOUT BABYCENTER
ABOUT BABYCENTER
About us
Awards
Careers
Advertise with us
Press Center
Mission Motherhood
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Ad Choices
Free Stuff & Great Deals
Love us?
GET HELP
GET HELP
Help Center
Contact Us: General inquiries
Contact Us: Community
Community Guidelines
Email Subscriptions
Account Details
Family Information
OTHER SITES
OTHER SITES
BabyCenter en Español
Baby.com
Pregnancy.com
Arabia
Australia
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
India
Malaysia
UK
BABYCENTER APPS
BABYCENTER APPS
Pregnancy & Baby
Baby Names for iOS
My Pregnancy Alexa Skill
BabyCenter Roku Channel
Connect with us
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resource, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Join now
XO,
Your friends at BabyCenter
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2019 All rights reserved.
This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use.
New to BabyCenter? Join now
Log in to continue
Email address
Password
Forgot your password?
Keep me logged in
Log in
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resources, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Track my baby
Community Community
TOP RESOURCES
Birth Clubs
Groups
Topics
Birth Stories
Mom Answers
POPULAR GROUPS
Bargain Hunters
Trying to Conceive
Breastfeeding Support
Miscarriage Support
Plus Size and Pregnant
Teaching Your Child to Sleep
Cooking For Your Family
Parenting Advice
Large Families
Preemie Parenting
See all in Community
Getting Pregnant Getting Pregnant
TOP RESOURCES
Ovulation Calculator
Pregnancy Symptoms
How to Get Pregnant
What Cervical Mucus Looks Like
When Do I Ovulate?
How Long it Takes to Get Pregnant
Am I Pregnant?
In Vitro Fertilization
Ovulation Symptoms
Pregnancy Tests
Implantation Bleeding
Chart Your Cycle
POPULAR TOPICS
Timing Sex for Pregnancy
Tips for Getting Pregnant
Infertility & Trouble Conceiving
See all in Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy Pregnancy
TOP RESOURCES
Due Date Calculator
Baby Name Finder
Popular Baby Names
Pregnancy Week by Week
Sex During Pregnancy
Weight Gain Tracker
Signs of Labor
Morning Sickness
Cramping During pregnancy
C-Sections
Gestational Diabetes
POPULAR TOPICS
Labor & Delivery
Aches & Pains
Pregnancy Safety
Health Problems in Pregnancy
Prenatal Care & Tests
See all in Pregnancy
Baby Baby
TOP RESOURCES
Feeding Guide
Sleep Basics & Training
Soothe a Crying Baby
When Babies Start Talking
When Babies Roll Over
When Babies Crawl
Diaper Rash
Postpartum Depression
Breastfeeding
First-Year Baby Costs Calculator
POPULAR TOPICS
Your Newborn
Baby Development
Solids & Finger Foods
Sleep & Feeding Schedules
Your Postpartum Health
See all in Baby
Toddler Toddler
TOP RESOURCES
Average Weight & Height
Autism Signs
Child Growth Chart
Night Terrors
Moving from Crib to Bed
Development Milestones
Toddler Feeding Guide
Toddler Tantrums
Separation Anxiety
How Much Sleep? (Birth to Age 2)
Fine Motor Skills
POPULAR TOPICS
Toddler Development
Toddler Behavior
Toddler Sleep & Naps
Potty Training
See all in Toddler
Preschooler Preschooler
TOP RESOURCES
Height Predictor
Potty Training: Boys
Potty training: Girls
How Much Sleep (Ages 3+)
Ready for Preschool?
Tantrums
Thumb-Sucking
Gross Motor Skills
Napping (Ages 2 to 3)
POPULAR TOPICS
Development (Ages 2 to 4)
Preschooler Behavior
Eating & Nutrition
Picky Eaters
Discipline Strategies
Preschool Basics
See all in Preschooler
Big Kid Big Kid
TOP RESOURCES
Jokes for Kids
Growth Spurts
Aggression
Nail-Biting
Defiance
Is Your Child Gifted?
Bed-Wetting
Talking Back
Talking to Kids About Divorce
POPULAR TOPICS
Activities & Play
Behavior
Discipline
School
Parenting Strategies
Talking About Difficult Subjects
See all in Big Kid
Health Health
TOP RESOURCES
Photos: Rashes & Skin Conditions
Symptom Checker
Vaccine Scheduler
Reducing a Fever
Teething
Acetaminophen Dosage Chart
Constipation in Babies
Ear Infection Symptoms
Infant CPR
Head Lice 101
POPULAR TOPICS
Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu
Teething & Tooth Care
Injuries & Accidents
Childproofing
Food Allergies
See all in Health
Video Video
TOP RESOURCES
Live Birth: Natural
How to Bathe a Baby
Getting Pregnant: When to Have Sex
Water Birth
Breastfeeding Positions
Getting an Epidural
How to Burp a Baby
How to Swaddle a Baby
Potty Training in 3 Days
Breast Changes During Pregnancy
How to Use a Breast Pump
POPULAR TOPICS
Weekly Pregnancy Series
Childbirth
Baby Care Basics
Celebrations
See all in Video
Gear Gear
TOP RESOURCES
Baby Registry Checklist
2018 Best Baby Products
Best Breast Pump
Best Convertible Car Seat
Best Infant Car Seat
Best Baby Bottle
Best Baby Monitor
Best Stroller
Best Diapers
Best Baby Carrier
Best Diaper Bag
Best Highchair
POPULAR TOPICS
Toys & Activities
Baby Clothes
Cribs, Bassinets & Beds
See all in Gear
For You For You
TOP RESOURCES
First Birthday Ideas
Second Birthday Ideas
Quick and Healthy Snacks
Paternity Leave
Can Pets Sense Pregnancy?
Chinese Gender Predictor
Gender Reveal Parties
Baby Shower Games
Lullabies
POPULAR TOPICS
Family Finance
House & Home
Travel
Life as a Mom
Meal Planning & Recipes
Age & Fertility
See all in For You
Connect with us
Already a member? Log in
Due date or child's birthday
mmJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec dd12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 yyyy202020192018201720162015201420132012201120102009200820072006200520042003200220012000
Trying to conceive
Calculate my due date Calculate my due date
First day of your last period
Select date
Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners
Privacy Policy | Terms
Sign in