Things that don't help your skin - INSIDER
Health
Life
Business
News
TV
All
Follow us on:
* Copyright © 2019 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy .
Disclaimer
Commerce Policy
Made in NYC
8 things you think help your skin but can actually make it worse
Maddy Sims
Aug. 15, 2018, 9:03 AM
Double angles pointing left Two angles facing left, which often indicate, "return to the beginning." Double angles pointing right Two angles facing right, which often indicate, "advance to the end."
Getting a "base tan" won't actually protect your skin.
Shutterstock
We all know the importance of taking care of your skin, but it can be a confusing feat. There are so many products on the market — toners, cleansers, scrubs, serums, face masks, lotions, creams, oils — that make creating a skin-care routine overwhelming.
Not only that, but the amount of information about what you "should" be doing for healthier skin is massive — and a little bit confusing. Turns out, there may be some things that you think are helping your skin but are actually hurting.
INSIDER spoke with board-certified dermatologists to sort through all of the information about skin care to find out which habits or products are doing more harm than good.
1/
Going all-natural can have drawbacks.
You may not want to rub lemon all over your face.
Boontoom Sae-Kor/Shutterstock
The movement toward clean beauty is exciting, but some of the all-natural products on the market can be irritating, said dermatologist Avnee Shah. "They tend to include botanicals and fragrance which can really trigger sensitive skin and cause angry, itchy rashes and reactions," she told INSIDER.
"Sometimes mild washes and lotions, though not organic, are really the way to go." Beyond all-natural products, dermatologist Papri Sarkar added that some people take the all-natural movement a bit too far, using straight lemon juice to treat their skin.
"I've had patients cut a lemon in half, apply it all over their face, and go out for the day feeling like they've done something good for their skin," Sarkar told INSIDER. "Unfortunately the interaction of the furocoumarins — chemicals in certain plants and fruit — plus sunlight causes a rash called phytophotodermatitis," she said. As a result, Sarkar said that patients can experience blisters, an itchy rash, dark spots, or hyperpigmentation.
2/
Getting a base tan before vacation can still cause trouble.
A fake tan won't protect you.
Shutterstock
Going somewhere sunny soon? Your first instinct might be to get a base tan by going to tanning booths or using sunless tan products, but Sarkar said that those cause some trouble. "People still think that a base tan or a fake tan helps to protect against skin cancer and is good for the skin," she said.
Using a tanning booth is extremely dangerous and can result in huge amounts of sun damage or even skin cancer, Sarkar said. What's more, she said that sunless tans don't do much when it comes to preventing sun damage. "A fake tan may look like a tan, but it doesn't provide the same protection as sunscreen," she said. It's important to remember that no matter how tan you are, you should always use sunscreen to protect your skin, Sarkar added.
3/
Performing your own extractions can do more harm than good.
It can cause infection.
eakkaluktemwanich/Shutterstock
Matthew Elias, a dermatologist in Florida, told INSIDER that many people still believe that popping their own pimples helps their skin.
Unfortunately, he said that this habit can cause many skin problems despite the instant gratification you may feel after squeezing a zit. Even if it's a big blemish that's annoying you, trying to get rid of it yourself is bad news, Elias said.
"Acne is full of puss and inflammation and by popping it yourself, you can actually cause the puss to be forced deeper into the skin — leading to a worsening infection and even scarring," he said. "If you have the urge to pop your zits, be sure to see a board-certified dermatologist who can put you on an excellent treatment regimen that will likely include regular facials where an esthetician can extract the zits using a combination of steam and chemicals."
4/
Cleaning cuts with peroxide might not be as effective as you think.
There are other alternatives.
eurobanks/Shutterstock
We've all been there — you fall and get a massive cut that stings and all you want to do is sterilize it, so you reach for the peroxide.
While the fizzing from the peroxide is satisfying, Holly Hanson, a dermatologist in Minnesota, told INSIDER that it may be doing more harm than good. "People think that cleaning a wound with peroxide ... prevents infection and helps with healing," she said. "However, peroxide is irritating to an open wound."
She added that studies have shown plain ointment, like Vaseline or Aquaphor, prevents infection just as well as antibacterial ointments. "Plain ointments also help avoid the unnecessary risk of creating an allergy to antibacterial creams and ointments," she said.
5/
Using concentrated essential oils in your skincare routine can be tricky.
Some can irritate your skin.
Africa Studio/Shutterstock
Essential oils are known for their natural healing properties and yummy smells. There are so many great ways to use essential oils, but dermatologist Robert Finney told INSIDER that incorporating them in your skin-care routine can be tricky.
"Essential oils have been trending in skincare, but all oils can clog your pores and contribute to acne," he said. If you still really want to use them in your skin-care lineup, consult a dermatologist so they can advise you on how to use them safely. Keep in mind that there are plenty of other dermatologist-approved products and treatments you can get for your skin concerns that aren't as risky as essential oils.
6/
Using Vitamin E on scars may just cause irritation.
It may not be effective.
Flickr/John Liu
Looking for fast way to fade scars? There are products and treatments on the market that can help with that, but Vitamin E is not one of them. Dermatologist Jennifer Kitchin told INSIDER that Vitamin E can actually irritate the scar and make matters worse.
"Many patients believe the myth that topical Vitamin E will improve healing and the appearance of their scars," she said. "There is no evidence that supports the use of Vitamin E for skin healing, and actually, many people develop an itchy, red contact dermatitis as a result of using Vitamin E on their skin." It's better to stick with a dermatologist-approved method when it comes to scars if you want a smooth healing process, she said.
7/
Using drying toners for acne
It can be very drying.
Pixabay
Dermatologist Dhaval Bhanusali told INSIDER that toner is the most overrated product when it comes to skin-care. "More times than not, they dehydrate and dry out skin without any benefit," he said. Ritu Saini, a New York-based dermatologist, added that using a toner that contains alcohol can cause issues with your complexion.
"Many patients feel alcohol-based toners give their skin a clean freshness when in actuality it can be very drying and irritating to the skin," Saini told INSIDER. "Some use it for acne control because these products are drying. However, the result is often excess oil production to compensate." If you're struggling with acne, contact your dermatologist to find safe and effective treatments.
8/
Exfoliating every day.
Just don't go overboard.
InnerVisionPro/Shutterstock
Exfoliation (removing dead skin cells) is a great way to get rid of dullness, but doing too much of it can damage your complexion, Bhanusali said. "Many people overdo it, and that can actually make your skin worse," he said.
"You strip away the good oils and your body secretes more oil — compensatory hypersecretion— which leads to more breakouts." For best results, Bhanusali recommended that patients exfoliate two to three times a week. Whether you're dealing with sensitive skin or an uneven skin tone, there's an exfoliator out there that will work best for you. Just make sure you don't go overboard with it.
For more great stories, head to INSIDER's homepage.
Previous 1/ Next
SEE ALSO: Here's how cutting out alcohol can affect your skin
FOLLOW US: INSIDER is on Facebook
More: Features Skincare Skin dermatologist
Dermatology
Freelancer
Evergreen story
skincare hacks
Get Insider In Your Inbox
Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
Popular
A 40-year-old man is suing his parents after they threw out his cherished $29,000 porn collection
Popular
Michelle Obama says she was surprised to see the Queen wearing a 'little bitty pin' she gave her when they sat down to dinner
Popular
A Bangladeshi teen was burned to death after claiming she was sexually harassed by her headmaster
Popular
Kit Harington says producers wouldn’t let him wear a hat during freezing cold Iceland shoots because of Jon Snow's famous hair
Popular
At least 207 people killed in Sri Lanka after churches and luxury hotels hit by explosions
Follow us on:
Also check out:
* Copyright © 2019 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy .
Disclaimer
Commerce Policy
Made in NYC