'Vitamin D supplements may halve severe asthma attack risk', Health News, ET HealthWorld
Sign in/Sign up
NEWS SITES
Retail News
Auto News
Telecom News
Energy News
IT News
Real Estate News
Brand Equity
Technology News
CFO News
IT Security News
Javascript on your browser is disabled. Please enable it for better performance of ETHealthworld.
ETHealthworld.com An initiative of The Economic Times
ETHealthworld
Home
News
Hospitals
Pharma
Medical Devices
Diagnostics
Policy
Industry
People Movement
Financial Results
Interviews
Blogs
Feature
Features
Trends
Startups
Medical Specialties
Oncology
Cardiology
Neurology
Oral Care
Diabetology
Data & Analytics
Social Analytics
Data
Reports
HealthTV
Brand Solutions
ETHealthworld Fertility Conclave
The Most Comprehensive Event Series on ART
Anti Counterfeiting & Brand Protection Forum 2018
Future Of Patient Care
ETHealthworld In Association with Home Healthcare
GE Healthier India
Achieving Excellence in Healthcare Delivery
India Health Forum 2016
New Paradigms in Healthcare
Hospitals
Pharma
Medical Devices
Diagnostics
Policy
Slideshows
Industry
Fertility Conclave
People Movement
World Heart Day
Financial Results
More
Health News
Latest Health News
Diagnostics
Diagnostics »
Vitamin D
Severe Asthma
Research
Queen Mary University of London
Asthma deaths
'Vitamin D supplements may halve severe asthma attack risk'
Asthma deaths arise primarily during episodes of acute worsening of symptoms, known as attacks or 'exacerbations', which are commonly triggered by viral upper respiratory infections, researchers said.PTI | October 05, 2017, 09:36 IST
Newsletter A A
London: Vitamin D supplements along with standard medication may halve the risk of suffering a severe asthma attack requiring hospital attendance, a study claims.
Asthma deaths arise primarily during episodes of acute worsening of symptoms, known as attacks or 'exacerbations', which are commonly triggered by viral upper respiratory infections, researchers said.
Vitamin D is thought to protect against such attacks by boosting immune responses to respiratory viruses and dampening down harmful airway inflammation, they said.
Researchers from Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) in the UK analysed data from 955 participants in seven randomised controlled trials, which tested the use of vitamin D supplements.
The study, published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine journal, found that vitamin D supplementation resulted in a 30 per cent reduction in the rate of asthma attacks requiring treatment with steroid tablets or injections.
Researchers also found that the supplementation resulted in a 50 per cent reduction in the risk of experiencing at least one asthma attack requiring hospitalisation - from six per cent of people experiencing such an event to three per cent.
Vitamin D supplementation was found to be safe at the doses administered.
No instances of excessively high calcium levels or renal stones were seen, and serious adverse events were evenly distributed between participants taking vitamin D and those on placebo, researchers said.
"These results add to the ever growing body of evidence that vitamin D can support immune function as well as bone health," said lead researcher, Adrian Martineau, professor at QMUL.
"Vitamin D is safe to take and relatively inexpensive so supplementation represents a potentially cost-effective strategy to reduce this problem," Martineau added. APA SAR SAR
RELATED
Newsletter A A
Tags : Diagnostics, Vitamin D, Severe Asthma, Research, Queen Mary University of London, Asthma deaths
Comment on this
Subscribe To ETHealthworld Newsletter
125000+ Industry Leaders read it everyday
Most Read
This Week
This Month
Cipla launches Niveoli inhaler in India
Cipla said Niveoli, extra-fine particle beclomethasone-formoterol combination hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) inhaler for adults, targets drug delivery to the small airways.
Chennai team develops device to test antibiotic resistance in just 6 hours
Ahmedabad doctor fined for prescribing vitamin B12 to man with stroke symptoms
Roche launches Hemophilia A treatment drug in India
'First' 3D print of heart with human tissue, vessels unveiled
At 71, she’s never felt pain or anxiety. Now scientists know why: A mutation
Scientists discover a mutation in a previously unidentified gene in a Scottish woman. They hope to leverage this to make a new painkiller.
Govt notifies new rules for drugs and clinical trials
Regulatory issues hit Dettol and Savlon supply
Novo Nordisk submits diabetes pill for U.S. approval
Cipla launches Niveoli inhaler in India
Most Read in Diagnostics
This Week
This Month
Chennai team develops device to test antibiotic resistance in just 6 hours
Commonly used diabetic drug - Metformin, beneficial for non-diabetic patients
Bengaluru team inches closer to cancer cure?
Drug 'canagliflozin' lowers the risk of kidney failure in diabetes patients: study
At 71, she’s never felt pain or anxiety. Now scientists know why: A mutation
Damage to sperm DNA can lead to repeat miscarriages : study
Experimental vaccine eliminates HPV infection: Study
Chennai team develops device to test antibiotic resistance in just 6 hours
Launch of Intas cancer drug could lower prices
We have updated our terms and conditions and privacy policy
Click "Continue" to accept and continue with ET HealthWorld
Accept the updated privacy & cookie policy
Dear user,
The EconomicTimes.com privacy and cookie policy has been updated to align with the new data regulations in European Union. Please review and accept these changes below to continue using the website.
You can see our privacy policy & our cookie list below. We use cookies to ensure the best experience for you on our website.
If you choose to ignore this message, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on ET HealthWorld.
Analytics
Necessary
Newsletter
Name
Provider
Expiry
Type
Purpose
Google Analytics Google 1 Year HTTPS To track visitors to the site, their origin & behaviour.
Name
Provider
Expiry
Type
Purpose
optout Times Internet 1 Year HTTPS Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain
PHPSESSID Times Internet 1 day HTTPS Stores user's preferences
accessCode Times Internet 2.5 Hours HTTPS To serve content relevant to a region
pfuuid Times Internet 1 Year HTTPS Uniquely identify each user
fpid Times Internet 1 Year HTTPS Browser Fingerprinting to uniquely identify client browsers
Name
Purpose
Daily Newsletter Receive daily list of important news
Promo Mailers Receive information about events, industry, etc.
I've read & accepted the terms and conditions
Partners:
Follow ETHealthworld///
Editor's Picks ›
Digital Health Guidelines is just the beginning of a new Dawn : Prof. Rajendra Pratap Gupta / Only 27% of Indians aware of concept of Living Will:HCAH Survey / Diabetes is very obvious target for digital intervention : Dr Vinod Mattoo / With digital disruptions, cyber threats to the industry is seeing an increasing trend : Nirmalya Gupta / Robotic surgery is costlier but it is definitely a fantastic technology : Dr Thadi Mohan / Emerging Therapies Are Raising Hope for Parkinson’s Patients / Fortis Healthcare unveils the symbol for “Organ Donation” / We strongly advocate evidence based practices, transparency & accountability: Dr. Nandakumar Jairam / Mount Sinai Launches Clinical Trial of New Imaging Device for Head and Neck Cancer Surgeries / Ayushman Bharat should become an instrument of positive change : Siddhartha Bhattacharya
Features ›
IndustrySpeak / Data & Analytics / HealthTV / Webinars / Events / Opinions / Interviews / Innovations / Trends / Startups / Oncology / Cardiology / Neurology / Oral Care / Diabetology / Data / Reports / Webcast
Other B2B News Sites ›
Retail News / Auto News / Telecom News / Energy News / IT News / Real Estate News / Marketing & Advertising News / Technology News / CFO News / IT Security News
About Us / Contact Us / Advertise with us / Newsletter / RSS Feeds / Embed ETHealthworld.com Widgets on your Website / Invite Friends / Enroll Company Employees
Privacy Policy / Terms & Conditions / Guest-Post Guidelines / Sitemap / Copyright © 2019 ETHealthworld.com . All Rights Reserved.