Depression and Regular Exercise - Family Kickstart Georgia
Email: info@fksg.org
Menu
HOME
ABOUT
History / Mission
Our Staff
Our Partners
SERVICES
Family Support
Adult Literacy
Youth Mentoring
MENTAL HEALTH
Youth Mental Health
Mental Wellness
VOLUNTEER
Volunteer Login
DONATE
MEDIA
EVENTS
CONTACT
BLOG
Depression and Regular Exercise
By Family Kickstart Georgia | March 25, 2019
While we all feel low, sad or moody from time to time, some people experience these feelings intensely, for long periods of time, seemingly with no clear reason. Depression is more than just a low mood, it is a serious condition that has an impact on both physical and mental health. One in eight men and one in six women will experience depression in their lives.
While we do not know the exact cause of depression, we can associate several things with its development. Depression does not result from a single cause, but from a combination of biological factors, early childhood experiences, personality factors, recent stressful life events, and other personal factors.
Regular exercise leads to improved wellbeing, so doing regular physical activity is a good way to help prevent or manage mild depression. There are many views on how exercise helps people with depression, although the precise reasons are not clear. It is also not yet known which kind of exercise, or how much, is best or whether the benefits are lost if exercise is stopped.
Broadly, keeping active can:
lift mood through improved fitness
improve sleeping patterns
increase energy levels
block negative thoughts
distract people from daily worries
help people feel less alone if they exercise with others.
Exercise may also change levels of chemicals in the brain, such as serotonin, endorphins and stress hormones. Regular exercise may also be effective in the prevention and treatment of anxiety conditions, but perhaps to a lesser degree than depression.
Exercise can be a moderately helpful treatment for mild-to-moderate depression in adults. They should, therefore, consider exercise as an important lifestyle change that is used besides other treatments for depression.
The benefits that can be attained from exercise depend on the amount of exercise that is undertaken. Most studies showing that exercise was helpful used aerobic exercise, such as running or walking, for at least 30 minutes, three times a week, for at least eight weeks. People with significant heart or respiratory illnesses should seek medical advice before starting on an exercise program.
People with depression may find it difficult to get motivated or get started or continue to exercise on a long-term basis. Here are tips to get you started:
Start simple – increase your activity levels gradually to improve your self-confidence and build motivation for more energetic activities.
Do what is enjoyable – people with anxiety or depression often lose interest and pleasure in doing things they once enjoyed.
Include other people – people with anxiety or depression often withdraw from others, but continuing to socialize is an important part of recovery. Staying connected with friends and family can help increase wellbeing and confidence.
Make a plan – planning a routine can help people become more active. Make sure it includes some form of exercise each day. Try to stick to the plan as closely as possible, but be flexible.
If you have not exercised for a while, see your doctor first.
Posted in Mental Health and tagged anxiety, depression, exercise, low, mood, sad, wellbeing
Recent Posts
About Depression in Men
Working while you have a Mental Health Condition
How to Celebrate Safely?
Childhood Immunization
How to Quit Smoking?
Recent Comments
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
Categories
Mental Health
Uncategorized
Youth Mental Health
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
1- 877- 977 - FKSG | 75 Ayers Avenue, Marietta, GA 30060 | info@fksg.org
Like our Facebook page!
Follow us on Twitter!
© 2018 Family Kickstart Georgia. All Rights Reserved.