Ticks: How to Properly Remove and Treat - Daily Parent
Menu
Health & Safety
Food and Nutrition
Activities
Behavior & Discipline
Videos
Pregnancy Health & Fitness
Natural Living
The Amount of Sleep Your Kids REALLY Need—And How to Help Them Get It
Help your kids get the quality sleep their little bodies need.
9 DIY Spa Treatments for Tired Moms
Everybody needs a little TLC, especially busy moms! Try these DIY spa treatments for easy...
Pregnancy Nutrition
Everything You Need for (Easy) Allergy-Friendly Baking
These products ensure that even allergy sufferers can enjoy delicious baked goods!
15 Kid-Friendly Pumpkin Recipes For Your Picky Eater
Pumpkins aren't just for carving. Whip up these pumpkin-flavored treats that even your pickiest eaters...
Crafts and Games
Party Ideas
5 Critical Reasons Your Child Should Play Team Sports
Some kids aren't interested in athletics, but here are five excellent reasons to give team...
10 Creative Family Fitness Ideas
Not every family is sports-oriented. But that doesn't mean there's not a place for physical...
Parenting Styles
Gear and Technology
BFF Breakup: How to Help Your Child Through a Fight with Her Best Friend
Resist the urge to fix everything and help your child heal from a best friend...
How to Raise a Thankful Child
Thankfulness shouldn't only be shown on Thanksgiving. Here's how to raise a child who's grateful...
This is Julie. This Is Diabetes.
Julie dreamed of a child. “This is my miracle. This Is Diabetes.”
This is Guadalupe. This Is Diabetes.
Guadalupe takes care of his mother. “This is role reversal. This Is Diabetes.”
Search
Home Growth and DevelopmentTicks: How to Properly Remove and Treat
Ticks: How to Properly Remove and Treat
Growth and Development, Health and Safety
https://dailyparent.com/articles/ticks-how-to-properly-remove-and-treat-video/
By Daily Parent
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
photos.com
https://dailyparent.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/ticks-how-to-properly-remove-and-treat-150x150.jpg
With increased outdoor summer activities come an increased risk of tick bites. Ticks are small insects that hide in grass, bushes and other plants that latch onto whatever warm-blooded creature happens to come by. Tick bites are associated with a number of serious diseases, including Lyme diseases, Rocky Mountain spotted ever and tularemia. If you find a tick on yourself or your children, you must remove it carefully and monitor the person for symptoms of these diseases.
Identifying A Tick
Ticks can be as large as a pencil eraser or difficult to see. Different areas of the country may have different species of ticks. Ticks can also differ whether they are male or female, juvenile or adult, and fed or unfed. They are generally rounded with 6 or 8 legs, depending on their age.
Removing a Tick
They tend to migrate to warm, moist areas of the body, such as the armpits, groin or scalp. They attach themselves firmly to the skin to feed on the blood of their host. To remove a tick from the skin, grasp it close to the head with a pair of tweezers and pull straight outward in a slow, steady motion. Do not twist as you pull it out. Do not try to lubricate or smother it with oil, Vaseline or other compound. Do not try to burn it with a match or lighter. Then, clean the area with soap and water. If you cannot remove the entire tick, get medical help to complete the task. Put the tick into a small jar in case you must identify it in case symptoms develop.
Monitoring for Symptoms
After you have removed the tick, watch for symptoms of tick-borne illness. Symptoms may include headache, fever, a rash at the site of the bite, muscle aches, joint pain similar to the flu, weakness, swollen lymph glands or stiff neck. Other symptoms to watch for include tingling, numbness, incoordination or spreading paralysis. If you or your child has any of these symptoms, consult a doctor immediately for treatment.
Prevention Tick Bites
Spray your clothing with insect repellent before spending time outdoors. Wear long sleeves and pants to avoid exposing bare skin. Check your shirttail tucked into your pants. Pull your sock up over the bottom of your pants legs to prevent a tick from entering. If you wear light-colored clothing, you will be able to see a tick on your more easily. Check your body carefully for ticks after being outdoors.
http://www.cdc.gov/ticks/avoid/on_people.html
http://www.cdc.gov/ticks/diseases/index.html
http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002856.htm
Like this:
Like Loading…
Found in: Growth and Development, Health and Safety
PREVIOUS ARTICLE
How to Explain Death to Children
NEXT ARTICLE
Caring for Adult Special Needs Children
Connect with us
Follow
Pinterest
Trending now
The Latest Social Trends in Technology americanprofile.com
10 Classic Indian Dishes to Make in Your Slow Cooker relish.com
10 Tabata Workouts to Melt Fat Fast spryliving.com
Six Finance Podcasts We Love smartycents.com
© 2019 Daily Parent, All Rights Reserved.
Terms of service
Privacy guidelines
Contact Us
Sitemap
Partner Sites:
AmericanProfile.com
Relish.com
SpryLiving.com
SmartyCents.com
SeriousEats.com
Roadfood.com
MonkeySee.com
%d bloggers like this: