Psoriasis | Light Therapy Review
Light Therapy Review
Red light therapy, light therapy products, light therapy reviews
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Home/
Archives /
Psoriasis
Archives For Psoriasis
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
What It Is…
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the power of light. With patience, dedication, and a schedule that fits your lifestyle, light therapy can make you feel at the top of your game at all times!
Light therapy can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and so much more. In this article, we are going to discuss how light therapy treats physical conditions. You read that right – light can cure your acne!
How It Works…
Light therapy works to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin disorders, wrinkles, chronic pain, and more by penetrating into the skin and activating specific cellular activity depending on what your body needs and which devices are being used.
When it comes to light therapy in this regard, there are a lot more options and a lot more to explain! Each condition requires a specific device as well as a specific treatment plan. However, when done right, light therapy has the power to completely change the game. Light therapy is all natural, drug-free, harm-free, and cost effective, which can make treatment for all of the following conditions much easier to endure.
Acne:
Red light and blue light therapy are the most common forms of light used to treat acne. The blue light penetrates into the skin to kill acne-causing bacteria in the pores while red light reduces inflammation and reduces the production of oils. The combination of the two is undeniable and can kick acne’s butt in no time.
Skin-Rejuvenating:
When it comes to anti-aging, wrinkles, and sun damage, light therapy is the best. Red light therapy produces elastin and collagen which prevents skin aging. It also increases circulation by relaxing the blood vessels in the specific treatment areas which allows blood to flow more easily. This helps to prevent and diminish wrinkles because increased circulation encourages the production of new skin cells.
Pain:
Light therapy is often used to treat a wide array of pain, even chronic pain, all caused by different conditions. Red Light Therapy can treat muscle pain, joint pain, herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Red light therapy treats this long list because of its power to penetrate deep into the body and reach the tissue beneath the skin with the use of infrared lights, lamps, pads, beds, and more. Red infrared light has the power to activate cellular activity which can begin the body’s natural healing process as well as reduce inflammation which alone can cause great pain.
Wound Healing:
Did you know that red light can heal a wound 200% faster than any other treatment plan? Red and/or infrared red light therapy can close and treat a wound, even in diabetics, which is far from easy. There are quite a few ways that light therapy works to treat wounds:
Increases circulation and the formation of new capillaries. Both of these activities allow the wounded area to receive more of the oxygen and nutrients it needs to heal.
Increases phagocytosis which is the cleanup of dead or damaged cells which helps control infections.
Increases lymph system activity which ensures efficient cleansing and detoxification of wounds without taking over the lymph system.
Stimulates production of fibroblasts which synthesize collagen, elastin, and proteoglycans in final stages of healing process.
Stimulates production of collagen which is key for closing a wound.
Stimulates tissue granulation which forms new connective tissue and small bloods vessels on the surfaces of a wound during healing.
Causes the release of ATP or raw cellular energy. Helps provide energy to the damaged and surrounding cells so they can do what they are meant to do and heal themselves.
Best Brands for Physical Health Light Therapy…
ReVive Light Therapy
Project E Beauty
Tendilite
Light Relief
DPL Flex
Philips
Beaurer North America
Yok Pollar
Posted on February 19, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Wound Healing
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light therapy is breaking ground all across the world and yet most people go through their every day lives having no idea what it is and how much potential it holds. Light therapy is going to blow your mind!
None of us are perfect, and honestly, more people than you would think struggle with serious disorders that affect their every day lives. Light therapy has been proven effective in a wide array of scenarios. A light box imitates outdoor light, which boosts energy levels and improves health, as well as multiple other perks.The process of using a light box and other forms of the therapy have been successfully treating all sorts of disorders. These conditions range from Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), to depression, to hair loss, to acne that you thought you would never get rid of, to muscle pain, and a little bit of every in between.
Light therapy is powerful, easy to use, cost effective, all natural, harm free, and ready for you whenever you’re ready. Now lets learn what everyone needs to know about light therapy…
It Can Treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and Depression:
If you struggle with any form of depression, light therapy may be a cure for your struggles. Seasonal Affective Disorder or SAD is a form of depression that usually strikes annually during fall and winter. For some people, symptoms for SAD occur during summer and spring, but it is rare. Symptoms for the disorder include irritability, trouble getting along with others, weight gain and major appetite changes, low energy levels, extreme sensitivity to rejection, oversleeping, and an achey, heavy feeling throughout the limbs.
For people with depression, aside from Seasonal Affective Disorder, light therapy can help by simply using a light box to bring their energy levels back to normal. Depression is usually apparent in conjunction with lack of sleep and Circadian Rhythm Disorders. Circadian Rhythm Disorders are changes in a person’s normal rhythm of their 24 hours cycles. When the patterns of the brain wave activity drastically change due to work, pregnancy, medications, time zone changes, routine swaps, and medical issues such as Alzheimer’s, it is hard for the brain to keep up. Making it is easy for depression to creep in. Light therapy can help bring your brain and energy levels back to a point that is difficult to reach without any assistance.
It Can Treat Other Mental Disorders Such As Bipolar Disorder:
More than three million people in the United States are diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder, also referred to as Manic Depression each year. The disorder brings about episodes of mood swings ranging from depressive lows to manic highs. Most people struggling with the disorder undergo periods of elevated moods, either high or low, and increased irritability. A reduced need for sleep, depression symptoms, and loss of interest in passions are all common occurrences.
Unfortunately, Bipolar Disorder cannot be cured, but light therapy has been proven to show signs of improvement. Light therapy helps keep the biological clock on time in people with Bipolar Disorder and other mental illnesses. This clock can be easily agitated and can throw off sleep and wake cycles which are known to stir up symptoms such as mania and depression. Using light therapy aids in regulating biological patterns, in turn reducing mood swings and major brain wave changes.
People who struggle with SAD, depression, and Bipolar Disorder, often face other mental disorders such as Bulimia and Anorexia. The therapy indirectly improves mood, thus reducing the need to binge or purge.
It Can Treat Insomnia:
There are more than three million US cases of Insomnia per year. Insomnia can usually be self-diagnosed and the symptoms include difficulty falling asleep and remaining asleep. People who struggle with Insomnia are often overly tired, lack concentration, show signs of depression, are extremely irritable, and suffer from headaches.
Similar to Bipolar Disorder, insomnia doesn’t have a direct cure. However, light therapy shows major signs of improvement in people and for people who struggle with moderate to mild insomnia, light therapy can most certainly be the cure. The internal clock in people with insomnia is often off which causes them to struggle when it comes to sleep. By managing when the brain releases melatonin and seratonin, insomnia symptoms can be alleviated and the brain’s internal clock can get itself back on track.
It Can Cure Psoriasis and Other Skin Conditions:
Light therapy is extremely effective for skin conditions such as Psoriasis, Vitiligo, Scleroderma, and many other disorders. The process works by decreasing cell growth and inflammation that create skin issues. Psoriasis is a common skin problem that has seen results when treated with light therapy processes. Psoriasis occurs when skin cells build up and form itchy and scaly patches on your body. Using a light box in a scenario such as this would slow down your cell growth and bring this painful condition to a halt. Do you struggle with any of these skin conditions? Light therapy may be the skin treatment you’ve been looking for.
It Can Cure Chronic Pain:
Red light therapy is used every day to treat chronic pain. This form of therapy became popular when professional athletes began using it for pain relief as well as wound healing.
This most likely goes without saying, but no one wants to take pain killers every day. They’re dangerous, your body becomes overly reliant, and they make your stomach a wreck. An even better statement: it’s pretty difficult to lead a happy life when living with chronic pain. No worries. The cure is here.
Red light therapy is very commonly used for pain relief. It’s used in doctor’s offices all over, athlete’s swear by it, Chiropractor’s praise it, and it’ll be hard to find someone with a negative opinion on the matter. It’s gentle, drug-free, non-invasive, and 100% awesome. In most cases, it has proven extremely effective in reducing pains and aches. In some cases, red light therapy has actually totally eliminated aches and pains. Red light therapy can treat herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
It Can Treat Hair Loss:
When it comes to hair regrowth, red light therapy is making our jaws drop. Low Level Light Therapy or Low Light Laser Therapy (LLLT), are what specialists are using and it is directly creating hair regrowth for people who struggle with male pattern baldness, hair loss due to age, stress, and more.
These treatment sessions use red and near infrared light therapy. The treatment does not need to be in the form of a laser to work, but some people prefer it. Wavelengths in the range of 630 to 670 nanometers are most commonly used for this form of Light Therapy. The treatment works because visible red light is capable of being absorbed by the molecules in our hair follicles. When absorbed, this can stimulate growth of the hair thanks to a natural biological reaction. This only works if the light is absorbed, which is why lasers are usually preferred.
It Can Treat Acne, Scars, Wrinkles, and Blemishes:
Most people have struggled or will struggle with those not so pretty blemishes on our cheeks, our noses, our foreheads, our backs, and other unfortunate places. Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follicles plug with oil and dead skin cells. The bothersome condition results in pimples, blackheads, and bumps. It’s honestly a pretty difficult condition to conquer. Some people can lay off the greasy potato chips, change their pillow cases every single morning, and still end up with zits on their foreheads. Some people can apply all of the expensive creams in the world, try every homeopathic treatment, read every Pinterest article about how to get rid of their zits, and they will still struggle. Some people deal with terrible side affects with acne medications, or they just can’t afford to keep getting it refilled! This is where light therapy can kick acne right out of your life.
Exposing your skin to different forms of Light Therapy can help kill the bacteria in and on your skin that causes redness and swelling from acne. Using a form of Light Therapy will not be a quick kill for your zits. It will not just zap them away like a laser does. Instead, the treatment kills the bacteria that causes acne and reduces the amount of oil-producing glands on your skin. It givesyour skin a chance to recover by itself, without harming or damaging it for the long run. Depending on what is needed and wanted, the treatment will either use red light, blue light, or a combination of the two.
Light therapy also works wonders by treating scars, reducing fine lines and wrinkles, and overall rejuvenating your skin to bring back youth and a healthy glow. All of these conditions can be cured with one light therapy device, but depending on your specific conditions and the severity of them, it’s best to do research and speak to a doctor before buying or using a device.
We barely cracked the surface here and we’re excited just talking about light therapy! Light therapy is still new. We learn more every day, and the possibilties are endless. It’s time to get on board!
Posted on November 22, 2016	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Depression, Hair Loss, Insomnia, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Skin Treatments
Light Therapy & The Earth
What Is Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using different forms of light to help reduce and/or treat a wide array of conditions and disorders. Dermatologists, doctors, and psychiatrists have been using light therapy on their patients for some time. And now, thanks to the convenience of new light therapy products, you can also use the treatment at home. Light therapy has been safely and effectively changing the medical world one patient at a time.
How It Works…
Depending on the condition and the patient’s state of health, light therapy treatments can vary. For skin conditions and disorders, red, blue, and green light therapy devices are used. The treatments can be applied in many different forms including body wraps, handheld wands, tanning style beds, and masks. These methods are used for chronic pain, acne, wrinkles, cellulite, rosacea, psoriasis, and more. For mental conditions, such as seasonal affective disorder or depression, light therapy lamps and boxes are typically recommended. The high powered LED lights mimic outdoor sunlight to boost energy levels, maintain regular sleep cycles, treat depression, and more. There are also more extensive and intense products being used in doctors’ offices. For example, intravenous light therapy can be used post surgery to reduce inflammation and swelling. And light that is shown on the skin after certain ointments are applied to affected areas can treat many forms of skin cancer.
All of these discoveries and new insights into the world of medicine are groundbreaking and even life changing for some patients. The best part of it all, there’s still so much to learn! We have barely begun to crack the surface of what light therapy can do for us.
Saving The Earth…
Just as light therapy is changing the medical field, it’s also saving the earth. Saving lives and saving the earth! Does it get any better than that?
Light Therapy Options (LTO) is a Connecticut-based company that provides light therapy products to treat and heal a wide array of skin conditions and disorders. This company stands out from the rest due to it’s pride in being eco-friendly.
Light Therapy Options’ products are high powered LED lights that are meant to be applied to affected areas of the skin in specific, accurate wavelengths. The devices themselves aren’t necessarily what makes this company stand out from the pack. There are many similar products on the market that can effectively treat and heal light therapy relying conditions. However, most of the products on the market are made of non-recyclable plastics and have a limited lifespan, along with some other features that can harm our environment.
How It Works…
Light Therapy Options stands out from the crowd for many reasons. The company aims to be as environmentally friendly as possible which is why they created these features for their products…
High Power LED: These use less electricity and reduce treatment times. Other treatments are between 10 and 30 minutes. LTO treatments are between 30 seconds and 3 minutes.
No Replacement Parts: The devices are extremely durable and have been designed to hold up through home use, travel, spa use, and more. They have a 50,000 hour lifespan. To simplify, if you use a device for 3 minutes at a time, it will last for many lifetimes.
Non-Disposable: Because of the insanely long lifespan, these products are non-disposable. LTO claims that you will never need to buy a new device.
Recyclable: Even though these products are made to be non-disposable, accidents can happen or you could run out of uses for the products. In this scenario, the products are recyclable.
No Toxic Gases: Many compact fluorescent bulbs and other light products contain toxic gases. LTO products do not.
Not Battery Operated: LTO devices are powered through a wall socket. No need to throw out batteries!
Combined Product Uses: LTO makes some devices that work for many different conditions so you to only have to purchase one device, instead of many different ones for all of your conditions.
Why Is This So Important?
It seems that many of us get so caught up in what the earth can do for us, that we forget what we can do for the earth. We only get one earth and we need to treat it like that is the case. Every step we take towards ensuring an environmentally friendly world is a step in the right direction. While Light Therapy Options is the only company currently making eco-friendly light therapy products at such a high level, it’s important to see what we can strive for. If one company can do this, why can’t they all? If you are considering buying a light therapy product, make sure you check and see if Light Therapy Options has what you are looking for!
Are You Sold?
Light Therapy Options has more than 10 products on their site. We have chosen to share a couple of those devices with you to explain in further detail just how wonderful we think this company is!
The Peak 415 Blue Light HP LED Powerhead
$259.00 (on sale!)
LightTherapyOptions.com
The Peak 415 is one of the most popular products on the website. It is available in either 120 volt or 220 volt and includes standard safety goggles to protect your eyes. Different goggle options are available to purchase as well for just a few dollars. The Peak 415 is made with a high power LED power head that is used with your own fixture (stand). It contains 48 HP LED chips and has a peak wavelength of 415 nanometers. It can be used for both personal and professional use and has been rated highly effective for treating acne. The website claims that the 415 nanometer wavelength has been identified as the most effective wavelength against acne causing bacteria without entering the UV range. It is the strongest acne light in their product line!
The Genesis DH Red Light / Near Infrared HP LED Powerhead
$299.00 (on sale!)
LightTherapyOptions.com
The Genesis DH is made with a high power LED head with 120 volt power and includes standard safety goggles. It has a standard sized bulb which means that you can use it with any open faced fixture you choose. The Genesis DH is specifically designed for pain relief, wound care, anti-aging, and much more. The device combines red and near infrared light therapy into one small unit which provides you with the benefits of both light therapy forms for every one of your treatment sessions. The website states that it is most commonly used as a handheld device for pain relief but it has also been proven effective while being used hands free for collagen production, anti-aging, and more. Why not give the 90 day trial period and lifetime warranty a try?
Save
Save
Posted on June 25, 2016	In Acne, Light Therapy, Pain, Products, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Uncategorized
Light Therapy & 3 Key Elements
The Three Key Elements…
Light Therapy can be used for a wide array of conditions and disorders. Each of these forms of treatment requires variations of the 3 key elements of Light Therapy. Duration, timing, and intensity.
The duration of the Light Therapy treatment refers to how long the treatment is conducted and the scheduling of it. This can look like once a week for two months all the way to five days a week for a year depending on the condition. The timing of the Light Therapy treatment refers to how long the treatment is conducted. For example, sitting in front of light box for thirty minutes, or keeping a body wrap around the back for fifteen minutes. The intensity of the Light Therapy treatment refers to the power of the Light Therapy device being used. For example, using a light box with 10,000 lux in order to treat seasonal depression. When these three key elements are scientifically and accurately combined, Light Therapy patients will find themselves on a path to a happier and healthier life.
Choosing The Three Key Elements…
Light Boxes for Depression:
Seasonal Affective Disorder is a form of depression that occurs each year during the months of fall and winter. The depression occurs due to the lack of sunlight as well as day light savings. These tough months can seriously affect our circadian rhythm, which is the internal clock inside our brains. Normal depression, which can occurs during any of the 12 months of the year, is also very sensitive to light. Using a light box in situation such as this has been proven extremely effective. If someone is struggling with Seasonal Affective Disorder, a light box will lift their mood and remind their brain what time of day it is in order to keep mood levels high. If someone is struggling with Depression, a light box can help by effectively elevating the chemicals in the brain that make us feel low.
After much research, the ideal light boxes have been created to fit individual’s lifestyles. Light boxes come in all different shapes and sizes as well as different intensity levels. The method of treatment may vary depending on the severity of the seasonal depression as well as the device being used. The stronger the light, the less time should be spent in front of the light box. Most people use light boxes for a minimum of 30 minutes each morning. A morning treatment can start your day off right and keep your body’s internal clock in check. However, some people don’t have time in the morning and choose to do the treatment at a different time. This is okay too. The more effectively you can fit the treatment into your schedule, the more you will benefit from it. Below is a list of light sources and how much light we receive indoors versus outdoors. Also, note that lux is a standard unit of light flow.
Bright moonlight – 1 lux
Candle light at 20 cm – 10-15 lux
Street light – 10-20 lux
Normal living room lighting – 100 lux
Office fluorescent light – 300-500 lux
Sunlight, 1 hour before sunset – 1000 lux
Daylight, cloudy sky – 5000 lux
Daylight, clear sky – 10,000-20.000 lux
Bright sunlight – 20,000-100,000 lux
Outdoors on a sunny day is 50-100 times brighter than office or room lighting.
(List borrowed from PsychEducation.Org)
With that being said, most light boxes are around 10,000 lux. It’s important to keep cost in mind as well. The higher intensity of the device, the more expensive it is going to be. But if Seasonal Affective Disorder or Depression are controlling your life, is cost necessarily a factor?
Dawn Simulators have also been proven extremely effective in scenarios such Seasonal Affective Disorder and Depression and they are noticeably cheaper than light boxes. A Dawn Simulators mimics the sunrise and sunset in your home through a small lamp. A timer must be set and when it’s time for you to start waking up, the simulator will turn on, mimicking the sunrise. This can be left on throughout the day and then slowly shut off as your day winds down. Most people only use the simulator to wake up, sort of acting as an alarm clock. But for people working from home or spending a lot of time in their home during the fall and winter months, it may be effective and helpful to leave the simulator on throughout the day.
Light Boxes For Other Mood Disorders:
Light boxes and dawn simulators, which were described above, are also extremely effective when it comes to mood disorders such as insomnia and jet lag. Seasonal changes, depression, medications, and stress, can all trigger insomnia. And for people that travel a lot for work or pleasure, jet lag can quickly control your life.
Using a Dawn Simulator for both of these conditions can be extremely effective. If you’re struggling with insomnia, a dawn simulator will help you wake up and go to sleep at appropriate times, helping create a proper sleep schedule and breaking insomnia. Also, because insomnia is also a side affect or depression, you could kill two birds with one stone. Using a light box could help too. It could elevate your mood, thus decreasing your stress levels, ultimately letting you fall asleep.
A Dawn Simulator can help fight off jet lag by keeping your body’s internal clock, or circadian rhythm in check. The simulator will help remind your brain the time of day and get you back to normal. A light box could definitely be effective too if it is used in the morning. It will not only keep your brain in sync with the day, but it will also put a smile on your face and a glow on your skin.
Light Therapy Devices For Cosmetic Conditions:
Light Therapy devices are commonly used to fight acne, slow down the cosmetic aging process, and even reverse hair loss. Handheld devices are typically used for acne and usually use either red or blue light. The device uses infrared lighting to penetrate into the pores on the skin to kill the bacteria that creates acne. The devices can also reduce the inflammation on the skin. This process can be done at home or in a dermatologists office. However, at home treatments are going to be far less expensive. The devices are typically held to the skin for 10 minutes increments and the light is commonly between 400 and 1,000 nanometers in intensity.
Anti-aging is one of the most popular benefits of Light Therapy. Red light therapy is commonly use for skin rejuvenation. Treatments can reduce wrinkles, minimize fine lines, reduce cellulite markings, and leave you with a young and healthy glow. Handheld devices, similar or the same as the ones use for acne, can help achieve all of these goals. Red light therapy beds are also extremely common. Similar to a tanning bed, the person undergoing the treatment would lay in the bed for a certain amount of time on a set schedule. Typically 15 to 30 minutes one to multiple times a week.
Hair loss is treated with red light therapy as well. Whether the hair loss is due to old age, pattern baldness, stress, or a skin condition, red light is known to help. The patient will either use a handheld device or a light panel and set a schedule for themself. The intensity is the same at the options discussed above. Of course, for all of these things, reading instructions and taking your personal condition into order before beginning treatment will give you the best results.
Light Therapy Devices For Severe Skin Conditions:
Light Therapy can help with more serious conditions, such as Rosacea, Eczema, Athlete’s Foot, Psoriasis, and more. If you are currently taking medication for any of these conditions or similar ones, it may be worth discussing Red Light Therapy with your doctor and finding a better option for your body. The treatments won’t take over your life and can be easily fit into your daily routine.
Red light therapy is used for just about all of these conditions. The same devices discussed above are used for these skin conditions. Blue light therapy is currently being used to treat certain types of skin cancers and it is remarkable. A solution is put onto the skin and then blue light is applied to the cancerous areas. The light penetrates through to the skin, killing the cancerous matter.
As discussed before, depending on the severity and exact circumstance of the condition, the treatments length and intensity levels differ. These treatments, aside from skin cancer, can be done at home or at a doctor’s office.
Light Therapy For Pain:
Red light therapy is commonly used amount athlete’s for pain management. Red light can treat aches and pains, reduce muscle and joint pain, help manage chronic pain, speed up the healing process for a wide array of injuries, and much more. Red light therapy beds, as discussed above, are commonly used for all of these conditions. Body wraps that use red infrared light are used as well and are much easier to fit to your lifestyle.
Starting The Treatment…
As with all major lifestyle changes regarding your health, it is always important to consult with a doctor who knows your history first. The next step is to choose whether to do the treatments at home or in a doctor’s office. If possible, at home treatments are usually the best route. Not only are they far less expensive, it is also easier to manage your time around the treatments if you only have to worry about your own schedule. It’s important to choose the right light therapy device. If it doesn’t fit your needs or schedule, you will never use it!
And lastly, but most importantly, keep an open mind. Light therapy is a natural form of therapy which could lead to doubts. But if your mind is open and you stick to a schedule, light therapy can seriously be life changing. The treatment will not heal you over night, but if you are dedicated, you can witness wonders.
Posted on April 15, 2016	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Depression, Hair Loss, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Uncategorized
Light Therapy & Psoriasis
“Having access to information about your condition, and working with your health professional to make choices about your treatment, puts you in control and in the driving seat. Having the right information and support can prevent you from getting trapped in a cycle of repeat prescriptions, can help you to understand your options and can ensure that your psoriasis is well managed in the right way for you.”
-Patient Information Forum
What Is Psoriasis?
Psoriasis is an extremely common skin condition. There are more than 3 million US cases of the condition reported each year. Psoriasis changes the life cycle of skin cells. According to MayoClinic, a well known website dedicated to medical studies, it “causes cells to build up rapidly on the surface of the skin. The extra skin cells form thick, silvery scales and itchy, dry, red patches that are sometimes painful.” (mayoclinic.org)
Psoriasis is hard to keep under control and it tends to show up more than one would hope. It is classified as a chronic disease, which means it is long lasting and difficult. The disease can be a rollercoaster, going up and down in severity over a course of time.
There are many different types of Psoriasis. The most common form of the skin condition is called Plaque Psoriasis and it occurs across the body. Nail Psoriasis affects the nails on the fingers and toes. Scalp Psoriasis as you would guess, appears on the scalp of the head. Guttate Psoriasis is most common in children and young adults and affects the trunk, arms, legs, and scalp. Inverse Psoriasis affects the armpits, groin, under breasts, and genitals. Pustular Psoriasis is uncommon and occurs on hands, feet, and fingertips. Erythrodermic Psoriasis is also uncommon and affects the entire body.
The Cause….
The exact cause of Psoriasis is yet to be determined but many studies have shown it being linked to the immune system. MayoClinic came to the rescue and explained more specifically how the immune system and Psoriasis are linked to each other. The site explained,
“One key cell is a type of white blood cell called a T lymphocyte or T cell. Normally, T cells travel throughout the body to detect and fight off foreign substances, such as viruses or bacteria. If you have psoriasis, however, the T cells attack healthy skin cells by mistake, as if to heal a wound or to fight an infection.
Overactive T cells trigger other immune responses. The effects include dilation of blood vessels in the skin around the plaques and an increase in other white blood cells that can enter the outer layer of skin.
These changes result in an increased production of both healthy skin cells and more T cells and other white blood cells. This causes an ongoing cycle in which new skin cells move to the outermost layer of skin too quickly — in days rather than weeks. Dead skin and white blood cells can’t slough off quickly enough and build up in thick, scaly patches on the skin’s surface. This usually doesn’t stop unless treatment interrupts the cycle.
Just what causes T cells to malfunction in people with psoriasis isn’t entirely clear. Researchers have found genes that are linked to the development of psoriasis, but environmental factors also play a role.” (MayoClinic.com)
The Symptoms…
As discussed, there are many different types of Psoriasis. However, the most common version of the skin condition is Plaque Psoriasis. The symptoms are…
Plaques of red, inflamed skin, often covered with loose, silver-colored scales. These plaques may be itchy and painful and sometimes crack and bleed. In severe cases, the plaques will grow and merge into one another, covering large areas.
Disorders of the fingernails and toenails, including discoloration and pitting of the nails. The nails may also begin to crumble or detach from the nail bed.
Scaly plaques on the scalp.
Small areas of bleeding where the involved skin is scratched.
(Symptoms list borrowed from WebMD.com)
How Would You Get Psoriasis?
Psoriasis can begin for a great deal of reasons. It can flare up again for just as many reasons. If you struggle with Psoriasis or want to avoid getting it, it is important to know and avoid the triggers of the skin condition. The causes include…
Infections (strep throat and skin infections)
Skin injuries (cuts, scrapes, bug bites, sunburn)
Stress
Smoking
Unnormal alcoholic consumption levels
Cold weather
Specific medications
What is Ultraviolet Lighting?
Ultraviolet Light Therapy is one of the many forms of light therapy currently being used to help treat skin conditions and diseases. Ultraviolet or UV light is extremely close in similarity to the Rays being output by the sun. It is typically used in the form of fluorescent bulbs that are specifically designed to create a special output of UV Light.
Light Therapy & Psoriasis…
Although there are many medications that can be taken to help with Psoriasis, going the natural route is always going to be the body’s best option. Light Therapy/Phototherapy is all natural and has no side affects.
When it comes to Ultraviolet Lighting, Psoriasis is typically treated with either Ultraviolet Light B Phototherapy or Psoralen and Ultraviolet Light B. Ultraviolet Light B is actually present in sunlight and is an extremely effective form of treatment. Ultraviolet Light B slows the growth of the skin cells being affected by penetrating the skin. When treating the disease, the skin must be exposed to an artificial form of Ultraviolet Light B. The treatment should be done on a regular schedule for a specific amount of time. Sometimes Psoriasis symptoms become worse before they begin to subside. It’s not something that people typically want to hear, but it will get better.
Ultraviolet Light A is also present in real sunlight. This form of light is also used to treat Psoriaisis, however is does not become effective until it is combined with Psoralen. Psoralen is a light sensitive medication that is applied topically or orally. This form of the treatment also slows down the growth of the skin cells on the body. The Ultraviolet Light A with Psoralen treatment is performed in the same fashion as Ultraviolet Light B, meaning the patient exposes themself to the artificial light on a regular schedule for a set amount of time.
Both of these options can be done in a doctor’s office or in the comfort of your own home. However, people dealing with this skin disease should always discuss treatment options with their doctor prior to undergoing treatment.
Good Ol’ Sunlight!
If you live somewhere sunny and are looking for the most natural form of treatment possible, use the sun! Ultraviolet Light B, from the form of treatment previously discussed works the same way outdoors from natural sunlight as it does during treatment in an office.
Always be sure to avoid sunburns and over exposure, but start with short treatments of limited sunlight and see how you react. Five to ten minutes of afternoon sunlight equally exposed to all affected parts of the skin is a great way to start. If your body reacts well, continually increase the exposure time by 30 seconds.
Are you struggling with Psoriasis or know someone who is? Take in some of this wisdom on Light Therapy or pass it along!
Posted on February 26, 2016	In Light Therapy, Psoriasis
Features
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Recent Posts
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
How Light Therapy Works!
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Understanding and Appreciating Vitamin D
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light Therapy is Boosting Libido in Men!
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
November 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
Categories
Acne
Blue Light Therapy
Celebrities
Children
Chronic Pain
Color Light Therapy
Daylight Savings Time
Depression
Devices
Experiments
Hair Loss
Infrared Red Light Therapy
Insomnia
Jetlag
Libido
Light Therapy
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Products
Psoriasis
Red Light Therapy
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Skin Rejuvenation
Skin Treatments
Small Space
Studies
Sunlight
Top 10's
Travel
Uncategorized
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
Wound Healing
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© 2019 Light Therapy Review — foundly by Foundly