Probiotics and lactic ferments can lower the blood pressure
DocSalus Facebook
DocSalus Google Plus
Search
Home
Food inflammation & Hypersensitivities
Nutrition & Exercise
Health care & Society
Navigation
Probiotics and milk ferments can lower the blood pressure
Share:
Facebook0
Twitter0
Google+0
LinkedIn0
Pinterest0
For too long, the only reason why someone thought of having to take probiotics and lactic ferments was relegated to summer episodes of diarrhoea or prolonged antibiotic treatments.
As if probiotics would only serve to readjust the intestine if that had just gone through a viral, bacterial or drug-related attack.
The last few years have helped us understanding that the gut microbiome (that is, all the bacteria living in the human intestine, guaranteeing life survival) is one of the most important existing organs. Important effects of the intestinal bacteria regulation have been discovered, ranging from the reduction of allergic phenomena, to inflammation control and a decrease in weight gaining.
In recent days, a study published online on Hypertension by a group of Australian researchers has shown that the use of a properly prepared mix of probiotics for more than 8 weeks (able to ensure the intake of enough live bacterial strains every day) is able to significantly reduce blood pressure in hypertensive subjects (Khalesi S et al, Hypertension. 21 Jul 2014. HYPERTENSIONAHA.114.03469. [Epub ahead of print]).
Subjects with minimum arterial pressure greater than 85 millimetres of mercury experienced a drop in pressure even more intense.
In other words, probiotics do not act as a drug, but in a much more intelligent fashion, that is, by reducing pressure where it is needed and not indiscriminately.
Such discovery confers a fresh value to the fact that the regulation of intestinal function, the relationship with food and the control of inflammation are amongst the most important elements in maintaining the balance of the entire body.
We still have a world to discover. The results produced by the adjustments of the intestinal function, as we have been doing for years through specific therapeutic paths, together with the regulation of food intake and intestinal flora have proved to be the most effective natural weapon to use, where possible, to achieve health through changes in behaviour and not always through conventional drugs.
Related Posts
Zero-calorie sweeteners: stimulating diabetes and obesity by altering the intestinal flora
Weight loss: closing the stomach or changing our bacteria?
Probiotics and milk ferments used as psychopharmacological drugs: when it is our intestine that “thinks about it”
The intestinal flora that helps us lose or gain weight
Using probiotics if suffering from yeast reactivity
More from DocSalus
Weight loss: closing the stomach or changing our bacteria?
Probiotics and milk ferments used as psychopharmacological drugs: when it is our intestine that “thinks about it”
The intestinal flora that helps us lose or gain weight
Using probiotics if suffering from yeast reactivity
How to treat allergies (from rhinitis to asthma) using the correct probiotics
Tagged on: Bacteria, Blood pressure, Gut, Hypertens, Intestine, Microbiome, Milk ferments, Probiotics
By Attilio Speciani | July 28, 2014 | Health care & Society |
← What is food-related inflammation?
Getting protected against Ebola, a pandemic that has never crossed the strait of Gibraltar since 1976 →
Search
Search
Join us on Facebook
Join us on Google Plus
Tags
Allergies Allergy Arthritis Asthma Autoimmune disorders Bacteria BAFF Bones Calcium Calories Coeliac disease Cytokines Depression Diabetes Diet Exercise Fat Flu Food Food intolerances Fruit Gluten Gluten sensitivity Hypersensitivity IgG Inflammation Insulin Intestine Metabolism Microbiome Milk Nickel Nutrition Obesity Osteoporosis PAF Probiotics Sugar Sweeteners Thyroid Tolerance Vegetable fats Weaning Weight-loss Yeast
DocSalus Facebook
DocSalus Google Plus
Privacy Policy - Copyright © 2019 DocSalus Theme by: Theme Horse Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top