Migraines / Headache – Page 2 – Sarasota Neurology
Home
Our Practice
About Sarasota Neurology
Our Staff
Services
Info
Patient’s & Visitor’s Guide
Appointment Booking
Forms & Insurance
FAQ
Blog
Contact
Medical Missions
Office (941) 955-5858 Fax (941) 955-0044
×
Please Create a Menu
MENU
THE BLOG
Medical Articles & News
Migraines / Headache
Describe types of migraine, headaches and cluster headaches, treatment of migraine, headache, migraines, cluster headache, Doctor Kassicieh, Dr. Kassicieh
Alzheimer’s Drug Shows New Promise for Headache Treatment
May 27, 2008admindanBotoxMemory Loss / Alzheimer's Disease / DementiaMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
Namenda (memantine) is the newest medication used in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. New research has shown that Namenda may be effective in treating patients with both migraine and tension headaches. The study done by John Krusz, PhD, MD showed that some patients with chronic migraines that did not do well with other headache treatments, did well with Namenda therapy. Of the migraine sufferers, there was a 56% drop in the number of migraine attacks. In patients with tension headaches there was a 62% drop in the numbers of attacks. This study was well reviewed on the website, Help for Headaches and Migraines.
Migraine and other headaches are chronic medical conditions that require aggressive preventative treatment. Many therapies have been tried but no cure has been found. Botox treatment has been promoted by the press but no clinical studies have showed that it is superior in migraine treatment than placebo. Having said that, there are certainly patients that have had migraine and headache reduction after Botox therapy.
It is important to note that the use of Namenda, Botox and most other migraine treatments are off-label uses of these and other medications. The majority of medications routinely used in the prevention of migraines are off-label. This is the standard of care in most headache clinics. If you suffer from migraines that prevent you from routine activities or interfere with work, you need to seek out help from a qualified neurologist who specializes in migraine headache treatment.
Read More
New Migraine Treatment for Migraine Headaches
April 30, 2008admindanMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
Migraine is a very common medical condition. Migraine headaches are the second most common cause for work absences secondary only to low back pain. Unfortunately migraine is the most prevalent in the working population age group. Fortunately many new migraine treatments have been developed. The newest migraine medication that has been FDA approved is Treximet. Treximet is a combination medication. It has Imitrex with RT technology in combination with naproxen sodium (the active ingredient in Aleve.) Imitrex was the first drug in the class of triptan medications that are migraine treatment specific. Studies have shown that the Treximet formulation of the two component drugs is more effective in migraine treatment than with either drug alone. Overall, Treximet has about a 10% greater effectiveness in stopping a migraine attack with the first dose, over either of the other migraine drugs, taken alone or together.
There are several other migraine treatment medications including Maxalt, Zomig, Relpax, Frova, Amerge and Axert. All of these medications are “designer drugs” formulated specifically to treat an acute migraine attack. The most important step for any patient who suffers from headaches is to get in to see a headache specialist. Migraine and headache treatment has become a specialized area in neurology. Neurologists who treat migraine, cluster and other headache disorders take a different approach to treatment of headaches and improving the patient’s quality of life. For additional information on migraine and headache treatment click here.
Read More
Cluster Headaches – The Most Severe Type of Headache
January 10, 2007admindanMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
Cluster headaches are the most excruciatingly painful type of headaches. They are very different than your “average” migraine. Typical migraine headaches most commonly affect women. In contrast, cluster headaches are seen predominately in males. These headaches occur in groups, which may be daily for weeks to months. Rarely they continue for years. As compared to a migraine which may last 4-12 hours, cluster headaches are short lived, generally less than one hour. The character of cluster headache is different. These severe pain attacks occur on the same side of the head for every attack. They tend to be localized to the front of the head and around the eye on the affected side. Cluster headache is a syndrome with a constellation of various symptoms which can include eye redness, drooping eyelid, tearing, nasal congestion, facial sweating and flushing. It is important to note that these symptoms all occur on the same side as the headache attack.
In contrast to migraine suffers, who would rather lay down in a quiet dark room, individuals affected with a cluster attack are up pacing around, banging their head and generally cannot sit still. In my office it is not uncommon to hear the saying, “If I had a gun, I’d shoot myself because the pain would be less.” If a patient with headaches says this, the diagnosis is almost certainly cluster headache. This threat should not be taken lightly as unfortunately the incidence of suicide in cluster headache sufferers is higher than the general population. Because of the severity of these headaches, they must be treated aggressively from the time they start. A cluster headache patient may go weeks to months or years without an attack. When they do start, they usually become severe within a week or so. A person may have several attacks in a day. During these attacks, they are completely disabled. Alcohol will trigger a cluster attack during a siege but at other times, when the patient is not having headaches, alcoholic beverages have no effect.
From the onset of the cluster attack, these patients need intensive, aggressive therapy. In contrast to migraines where you have time to adjust medications, a cluster sufferer needs multiple, maximum treatment therapies started at the onset of a cluster. This can include oxygen for inhalation therapy. This will frequently abort an attack. The mainstay of therapy is prevention. Several different medications can be used to control cluster attacks from even occurring. These medications may include Prednisone, Depakote, Topamax, lithium, Verapamil, Lyrica, Sansert or Methergine. Not every medication works for every patient. It is important to see a headache specialist familiar with the aggressive treatment of cluster headaches. To relieve an acute attack, Imitrex injections work well. Although not designed to be used on a daily basis, some patients go outside of the prescribing guidelines to treat their clusters due to the severity of the pain. I instruct my patients that when they feel a cluster attack starting, they need to call for an immediate appointment so that we can get them started on aggressive maximum therapy as soon as possible. Patients suffering from cluster headaches should be under the care of a headache and migraine specialist due to the unique nature and treatment requirements of this disabling condition.
Read More
Botox – Use In Treatment of Migraine & Headache Disorders
October 4, 2006admindanBotoxMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
Botox is a potent neurotoxin that causes muscle paralysis by blocking the release of the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine, from the nerves that control muscles. When given under controlled clinical applications, this medication can have a dramatically beneficial effect in relieving muscle spasm due to certain conditions such as cervical dystonia, blepharospasm, hemifacial spasm and limb dystonia. Over the past several years the media has reported that Botox can relieve migraines. These claims are based on random reports of individuals who may have gotten some benefit. The manufacturer of Botox, Allergan, has conducted several nationwide studies on the use of Botox for headaches, none of which have shown a statistically significant difference over placebo. Sandra Leong writes in Natural Headache Remedies a summary about the use of Botox in the treatment of various headache disorders. She notes that one theory on how Botox works for migraine is by relieving the muscle tension. It should be noted however that physiologic studies have not shown an overall increase in muscle spasm around the head in patients suffering from acute headache attacks. It is also important to note that the placebo effect in headache studies is as high has 35%.
In a summary of the studies done by Allergan for headaches, Medical News Today lists the previous and ongoing studies that the company is conducting to analyze the potential benefits of Botox in the treatment of migraine and other headache disorders. Personally, having participated in several of these Botox trials, I would agree with the study results that there was no distinct clinical benefit from Botox over placebo. It is important to note however that these were randomized, double blind placebo studies where neither I or the patient knew if they were getting Botox or placebo saline injections. I base my conclusions on reading the final study reports. At the Florida Headache & Movement Disorder Center, we carefully screen patients with head and neck pain for the possibility of benefiting from Botox therapy. Only very few patients actually meet my criteria for using Botox for migraine treatment. Even with this careful selection of patients, our results are about 50% success rate, slightly higher that the placebo effect rate. The patients that benefit the most from Botox treatment most commonly have a high degree of muscle spasm in their neck and head, associated with but separate from their actual headaches. There have been reports by other respected headache specialists, in non-controlled trials, that Botox may effective for some patients with migraine.
In conclusion, Botox has not been shown to have a major therapeutic advantage in the treatment of otherwise intractable migraine and headache disorders. The “media hype” is without scientific basis to back up the claims cited in many reports. If you have recurrent headaches, your best bet it to be evaluated and treated by a board certified headache specialist.
Read More
Migraine Headaches- A Common but Undertreated Condition
September 27, 2006admindanMigraines / HeadacheUncategorized
It is estimated that migraine and other headache disorders affect 30-40 million Americans. The unfortunate fact is that only 50% of these individuals seek out treatment. It is one of the leading causes of missed time from work and social functions. Untreated migraines can have a devastating effect on affected individuals’ quality of life. Migraine is one of the leading causes of temporary total disability in the U.S. work force. This is an unfortunate statistic which could be dramatically improved with earlier recognition and more aggressive treatment of migraines and other disabling types of headache. The main features of the migraine syndrome are recurrent moderate to severe headaches that interfere with activity. Associated migraine symptoms include light and noise sensitivity, nausea, occasionally vomiting and sinus congestion. Most so called “sinus headaches” are actually migraines and have nothing to do with sinus problems whatsoever. Cluster headaches are the most severe form of headache. While considered a type of vascular headache, they are put in a different category to be differentiated from migraines. This is by the International Headache Society classification of all headache disorders.
Patients experiencing a migraine attack prefer to lay down in a quiet dark room with an ice pack on their head or neck. There are excellent, non-narcotic medications that can be used to abort a migraine attack. Migraine treatments to stop an acute attack include the triptan medications such as Imitrex, Maxalt, Zomig, Relpax, Frova, Axert and Amerge. There are other medications that can be used to prevent migraines from occurring. Topamax and Depakote have FDA approval for migraine prevention. The first step is for the patient to schedule an appointment with a headache and migraine specialist.
Read More
Prev
1
2
Search
Recent Posts
Aimovig
Professional and Olympic Athletes Using Platelet Rich Plasma for Joint Pain and Muscle Injuries
Platelet Rich Plasma PRP Therapy in Sarasota Florida for Joint and Foot Pain
Does Insurance Cover Botox Injections for Migraine Headaches?
Podcast: Stroke – Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease
Recent Comments
Archives
June 2018
January 2016
May 2015
March 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
November 2013
March 2013
May 2012
November 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
December 2010
October 2010
March 2010
January 2010
October 2009
September 2009
July 2009
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
April 2007
January 2007
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
Categories
Back Pain
Botox
Brain Stimulation
Computers
General Medicine
High Cholesterol
Memory Loss / Alzheimer's Disease / Dementia
Migraines / Headache
Movement Disorders
Nerve Diseases
Nerve Pain
Neuropathy
Pain
Parkinson's disease
Platelet Rich Plasma
Podcast
Seizures
Stroke
Uncategorized
Vertigo / Dizziness
Welcome
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Phone (941) 955-5858 Fax: (941) 955-0044
info@sarasotaneurology.com
3501 Cattlemen Rd, Sarasota, FL 34232
Facebook
Latest News
Aimovig Jun 20
Professional and Olympic Athletes Using Platelet Rich Plasma for Joint Pain and Muscle Injuries Jan 12
Platelet Rich Plasma PRP Therapy in Sarasota Florida for Joint and Foot Pain May 28
Does Insurance Cover Botox Injections for Migraine Headaches? Mar 3
Podcast: Stroke - Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease Dec 10
Copyright ©2018 all rights reserved
Designed by YoHoHosting