Home Remedies for Burn (Ways to Treat a Burn at Home)
HOME
HEALTH
HOME REMEDIES
HAIR CARE
HOME CARE
SKIN CARE
WORKAROUND
Search
HowRid
HOME
HEALTH
HOME REMEDIES
HAIR CARE
HOME CARE
SKIN CARE
WORKAROUND
Home Home Remedies Home Remedies for Burn (Ways to Treat a Burn at Home)
Home Remedies for Burn (Ways to Treat a Burn at Home)
By
Jesseca
-
03/06/2016
223
After writing, how to stop peeling from sunburn?, how to get rid of razor burns?, and how to get rid of sunburn blisters?, we are now writing the home remedies for burn. Burn is the condition, which can be really irritating and annoying. Even a minor burn can make you restless and irritating. Basically there three types of burns that we will be discussing further in this article. But it is minor burn which is more common at home. Minor burn can be treated well at home while the others need medicated treatment.They are sometimes marked by inflammation and redness while they can also develop blisters on them. In this article, we are going to discuss some of the best home remedies for burn treatment. Read the article to know more about burn and ways to treat a burn.
Types of Burns:
Basically there are three types of burn – first degree, second degree and third degree. Let’s discuss them in detail.
First Degree Burn – This is the most common type of burn and that is least harmful. First degree of burn affects the outer layer of the skin (epidermis). Common burns at home and sunburn fall under this category.
Second Degree Burn – This is kind of burns affect both the layer of the skin – epidermis as well as dermis. Second degree of burn is marked by blisters on the affected area. These burns are can be treated well at home. The only concern for is the infection. You need to take specific measures to prevent infection.
Third Degree Burn – This is the most serious type of burn. It is highly destructive in nature and need medical treatment. This type of burn affects the deepest layer of the skin. They are the worst as they damage blood vessel, fat and nerves. In worst cases, they can affect muscles and burns as well.
Home Remedies for Burn:
Contents
Home Remedies for Burn:
1.) Cold Water to Treat Burns
2.) Aloe Vera Gel for Burn Treatment
3.) Raw Potato to Cure Burn
4.) Black Tea to Heal Burn
5.) Honey to Get Rid of Burn
6.) Coconut Oil and Lemon Juice
7.) Vinegar to Cure Burn
8.) Onion to Treat Burn
9.) Lavender Oil to Heal Burn
10.) Plantain Leaves to Heal Burn
Additional Useful Tips to Treat a Burn:
The first and the second degree of burns can be treated well at home. Thus, we bring to you some of the best home remedies for burn treatment. You can try these home remedies for burn, but in case you notice any complications, you should visit your doctor for sure. Home remedies for burn are:
1.) Cold Water to Treat Burns
Cold water is the very first remedy that you should consider in order to treat cold water. This is a well-known and one of the most common home remedies for burn treatment. As soon as you are hurt, you should run cold water on the affected area. This helps ease the burn and you do not feel the burning sensations. You can try cold compress as well. Giving cold compress to the affected area also does the same function. You can try cold compress using a cloth or some other way. Make sure that you do not apply ice to the affected area. Applying ice to the affected area restricts the blood flow and thus can worsen the condition.
2.) Aloe Vera Gel for Burn Treatment
You can also go for Aloe Vera gel in order to get rid of first degree burns. It has astringent properties that soothe the burnt area and provides you instant relief from the pain. You can apply the Aloe Vera gel available in the market. But, it is good to go for the fresh one. What you have to do is:
Take a small piece of Aloe Vera Leaf and cut it to extract the gel.
Apply the gel on the affected area.
3.) Raw Potato to Cure Burn
Minor burns can be easily treated with raw potato. It has anti-irritating properties that help with the burning sensations. Raw potato also has soothing properties that help relieves burning sensation. It also treats the pain and reduced the risk of blisters. You can use it in two different ways. Just cut a potato into thick slices and run one slice on the affected area. Make sure that the juice from the potato is applied nicely on the burn. You can also grate one potato can also make a paste with raw potato. Apply the paste on the affected area for 15 minutes and then wash off.
4.) Black Tea to Heal Burn
Black tea contains tannic acid and thus can be used to treat burn fast. Tannic acid helps remove heat draw heat from the burn and help reduce pain as well. This it is one of the most amazing remedies for burn treatment. You can simply place wet and cold tea bags directly on the affected area. What else you can do is:
Boil a bowl of water and steep three teas bags in it.
Allow the water to cool completely.
Soak a cotton cloth in the solution and place it on the burn.
Re-apply as per the requirement.
5.) Honey to Get Rid of Burn
This is one of the best home remedies for burn treatment. Honey is rich in anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory properties that provide soothing effects. The best part about honey is that it protects the wound from getting infected as it has disinfectant properties as well. Honey does an additional work of preventing hypertrophic scars. What you have to do is apply raw honey on the affected area. Apply some honey on the gauze tape and apply it on the affected area. Keep changing tape at least four times a day.
6.) Coconut Oil and Lemon Juice
The combination of the two ingredients is counted among the most effective home remedies for burn treatment. Coconut oil is an amazing ingredient that can be used to treat burn. Coconut oil is high in a number of properties like lauric acid, caprylic acid and mystric acid. It is anti-oxidant in nature and also has anti-fungal and anti-bacterial properties that help treat burn fast. And, on the other hand, lemon has acidic properties that help lighten the scars. What you can do is mix some lemon juice with coconut oil and apply on the affected area. The remedy is an amazing for minor burn and sunburn.
7.) Vinegar to Cure Burn
Vinegar is also one of the most amazing remedies for burn. White vinegar has antiseptic and astringent properties that help treat burn fast. It is great at treating minor burns. The most amazing part about using vinegar is that it prevents infection as well. You can use it heal burn but make sure that you do not use it directly. You should always dilute it before using. What you have to do is dilute some vinegar with same amount of water and use this solution to rinse the area. You can also soak a cloth in diluted vinegar solution and place that cloth on the affected area. Keep changing the cloth at every one or two hours.
8.) Onion to Treat Burn
Onion juice can also be used as an effective remedy to treat burn. Being high in compounds like quercetin and sulfur, it helps pain and also speeds up the healing process. Also, it reduces the chances of developing blisters. All these qualities are the reason that it is counted among the top home remedies for burn. Grate a fresh onion and extract the juice form it. Apply the juice on the affected area and leave for a few minutes. Make sure that you always go for fresh onions. It is rich in medicinal properties. Do it several times a day for best results.
9.) Lavender Oil to Heal Burn
Lavender essential oil is high in antiseptic properties and thus is great for burn. It prevents infection and leaves soothing effects on the affected area. Also, it works as a natural pain killer. All these properties make it one of the best home remedies for burn treatment. You can apply diluted form lavender essential oil on the affected area. What else you can do is soak a clean cloth in diluted form of lavender oil and apply the cloth on the affected area. Repeat the process several times. You can try another way as well.
Take two tablespoons of honey in a bowl and add a few drops of lavender essential oil in it.
Mix the two well and apply on the affected area.
Repeat the process several times a day for best results.
10.) Plantain Leaves to Heal Burn
You can also go for plantain leaves in order to treat burns. This is also one of the most excellent remedies for burn treatment. Plantains leaves have anti-inflammatory properties and thus it work great on burns. It is also rich in antibacterial properties that speed the heal process. These leaves provide soothing effects on the affected area. Using these leaves is easy simple and easy. Follow the given steps for the purpose:
Take some fresh plantain leaves and grind them to make a paste.
Apply the paste on the affected area and spread it nicely.
After applying it, cover the area with a cotton cloth.
When this paste dries out, re-apply it.
Additional Useful Tips to Treat a Burn:
In case there is no above mentioned ingredient is available, you can go for toothpaste. Go for menthol-based toothbrush. It will immediately. It will cool down the area and you will get rid of burning sensations instantly.
Ice is believed to provide relief, but it should be avoided as it can block the blood vessels and thus hampers healing process.
Avoid applying butter, petroleum jelly, egg whites and butter. These ingredients might trap the heat inside.
Do not make the blisters. This increases the risk of infection. Avoid adhesive dressings on the wound.
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Linkedin
Email
TAGS
avoid burn
burn
cure burn
get rid of burn
get rid of burn fast
heal burn
prevent burn
remedies for burn
remedies for burn blisters
remedies for burn from boiling water
sunburn
treat burn fast
treat burn fast and naturally
Previous articleHow to Get Rid of Love Handles Fast?
Next articleHow to Remove Acne Scars Naturally?
Jesseca
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
How to Treat a Burn at Home?
How to Prevent Razor Bumps?
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Please enter your comment!
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Popular Categories
Health
Home Remedies
Hair Care
Home Care
Skin Care
Workaround
Popular Posts
Natural Ways to Detox Your Body
How to Get Rid of Anxiety?
How to Cure Sinus Infection Naturally?
How to Relieve Lower Back Pain?
How to Get Rid of Acne Scars?
Home Remedies for Diverticular and Diverticulitis
Home Remedies for Heel Spurs Treatment
Aloe Vera For Acne Treatment at Home
How to Get Rid of Wrinkles Naturally?
Natural Home Remedies For Sore Throat Treatment
Home Remedies for Restless Leg Syndrome
How to Give A Hickey?
How to Make Soap at Home?
Home Remedies for Menstrual Cramps
Get Rid of Acne Scars With Home Remedies
Natural Remedies for Asthma Attacks
Best Food to Treat Edema Naturally
How to Build Muscles at Home?
How to Get Rid of Pimple Marks?
How to Get Lighter Skin? (Get Skin Lighter Naturally)
© Copyright 2012-2018, All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
Edit with Live CSS
Save
Write CSS OR LESS and hit save. CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete.