Health Archive Feb 22 2006
Home Top Stories Sports Entertainment Health News Business Personal Finance
Real Estate Business Finance Insurance Consulting Tax News Forum
Writers
Featured Articles
Search:
Health Archive Date Archived: February 22nd 2006
Teeth Whitening - downfalls to doing it at Home
Before and After BrightSmile Treatment
With all the toothpaste products out that whiten teeth, why would a person get it done professionally? There are many reasons why going to your dentist to have your teeth whitened is a better choice.
One reason is that a trip to the dentist or dental whitening professional should make sure you’re your teeth and gums are healthy and able to be whitened. Before any whitening is performed it should be determined if your teeth are up for the brightening. Teeth Whitening - downfalls to doing it at Home
Atkins Diet may not be good for your Heart
Steak
A new study published in the February 13th issue of the Archives of Internal Medicine found that low-carb dieters end up having higher total cholesterol and higher levels of LDL “bad” cholesterol.
The researchers did a comparison of the high protein and high fat diet (low-carb) versus the low fat dieters. Atkins low-carb dieters are encouraged to eat all types of protein and high fat foods with very little carbs. South Beach is another low-carb diet; however this diet focuses on healthy protein (like chicken and fish) with balanced and controlled fat intake along with anything that is low-carb (certain types of fruits and vegetables, and sometimes beans.) South Beach is calling their low-carbs, "smart carbs" because of the nutrition. Atkins Diet may not be good for your Heart
Study Conflicts – Does Hormone Replacement Therapy HRT Cause Heart Attacks Strokes or Breast Cancer?
Dr. Lila Nachtigall
A study in 2002 showed an increase risk of breast cancer, stroke and heart attack for women that took hormone replacement therapy (HRT). The researchers looked at the data from the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI), which began in the early 90’s with nearly 50,000 women. Their findings left women with a tough decision: Should they continue with the risky HRT or should they stop?
They found that women had a 30% increased risk of heart attack when taking HRT. Now a follow up study has reevaluated the data, and found no increased risk of heart attack when women take estrogen alone, without progestin.
The research, published in the February 13th issue of archives of Internal Medicine – one of JAMA/Archives journals, said “Estrogen therapy does not appear to reduce the risk of heart attack or coronary death in healthy postmenopausal women, although some data suggest a lower coronary heart disease risk in women aged 50 to 59 years”. Study Conflicts – Does Hormone Replacement Therapy HRT Cause Heart Attacks Strokes or Breast Cancer?
Congestive Heart Failure Death Risk reduced by taking Diuretics
Congestive Heart Failure
Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) is a build up of fluid in the body, and when treated with diuretics it can reduce the risk of death in the long term. Previously it has been widely used for quick relief of the fluid build up of CHF but a new research project confirmed that there is benefit for long term treatment with diuretics.
"The available data from several small trials show that in patients with chronic heart failure, conventional diuretics appear to reduce the risk of death and worsening heart failure compared to placebo," stated the analysis team which was led by Dr. Rajaa Faris of Saudi Arabia. Congestive Heart Failure Death Risk reduced by taking Diuretics
Self-Predications creates Success or Failure in People
Crystal Ball
Instead of just making a list of thing you want to change about your life, you should understand that it is how you see yourself in the future that either makes or breaks your dreams.
Making predictions about your future will increase the chance of actually doing it, says a research study published in the March 2006 issue of the Journal of Consumer Research. They use an example of a person that predicts that they will do a socially good deed, like recycling. The people that used the self-prediction technique increased their chance of actually doing the deed.
The researchers call is “self-prophecy effect” which can be more beneficial from one person to another. "A clear benefit of the self-prophecy technique is its simplicity: a question followed by a simple "yes" or "no" elicits behavioral change," said the studies authors, Eric R. Spangenberg and David E. Sprott from Washington State University. Self-Predications creates Success or Failure in People
Dermatology Association wants Delay of iPLEADE Accutane FDA Program - Acne Drug linked to Birth Defects
Acne
The government approved a system for preventing pregnant women from taking Accutane. The drug has been linked to miscarriages and severe birth defects. The American Academy of Dermatology, the largest dermatological association, has asked the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to delay the March 1st implementation date by two months.
The Academy urged the FDA to “postpone” the new iPLEDGE system because dermatologists across the country are reporting numerous flaws in the program “that are interfering with patient care and could affect patient safety.”
Accutane, and the generic Isotretinoin, has been approved to treat severe disfiguring acne with great results. According to the New York Times, the condition afflicts only about 6,000 patients, nearly all of them male. But the drug is prescribed to more than 170,000 patients, of which about half are women. Dermatology Association wants Delay of iPLEADE Accutane FDA Program - Acne Drug linked to Birth Defects
Massage Therapy
Therapy
What was once considered luxury is quickly coming to be seen a serious medical aid, as 3,000 years of research and practice have demonstrated. Massage therapy is what it is, and while the Eastern worlds have turned this art into health-beneficial techniques, it is only recently that the western world has come to embrace it, and so happily realize that massage is not only feels pleasant, but can also ease pain and prevent disease.
The techniques used in massage therapy vary widely, and any one massage therapist will be trained in a few, if not a wide array, of the many existing techniques. Massage therapy, a combination of pressing, kneading and stroking various parts of the body, does much more than relieve stress, which is one of its most obvious and immediate benefits. Massage Therapy
Link between Hearing Loss and lower Levels of Aldosterone Hormone
inner ear
A research project from the International Center for Hearing and Speech Research (ICHSR) measured the amount of aldosterone hormone in aging individuals and found a relationship of lowered hormone levels and hearing loss.
This combined research project came from the National Technical Institute for the Deaf at Rochester Institute of Technology and neuroscientists from the University of Rochester who participate with the ICHSR center. The funding for this project came from the National Institute on Aging, which is a leader in age related hearing loss research. The research paper was first published in the November issue of the journal, Hearing Research. Link between Hearing Loss and lower Levels of Aldosterone Hormone
Enlarged Prostate Patients may not Benefit Saw Palmetto - Herbal Supplement Tested
Saw Palmetto
New research indicates that the herbal extract saw palmetto was no more effective than the placebo for improving urinary symptoms in men with enlarged prostate. Researchers led by Stephen Bent, MD, a staff physician at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, and Andrew Avins, MD, MPH, of the Northern California Kaiser Permanente Division of Research, conducted a double blind study involving 225 men.
The researchers randomly assigned patients with enlarged prostates a placebo or saw palmetto. They took the tablets twice per day for one year.
The subjects were tested for symptoms and side effects. The symptoms were assessed according to a standard symptom score for benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) and objective measures of urinary function. Enlarged Prostate Patients may not Benefit Saw Palmetto - Herbal Supplement Tested
Metabolic Acidosis Patients at Twice the Risk for Mortality in Intensive Care Units
Medical Symbol
A study published in today’s journal, Critical Care, shows that patients with certain types of metabolic acidosis are almost twice as likely to die as those that do not have the abnormal acidic blood PH.
The risk is especially true for patients that suffer from lactic acidosis and for patients that have a strong ion gap (SIG) acidosis. Both of these types of patients need to be monitored more carefully when admitted to an intensive care unit (ICUs).
Kyle Gunnerson from Virginia Commonwealth University and colleagues from the University of Pittsburgh researched 851 patients that were suspected as having metabolic acidosis and were admitted to the ICUs of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. After careful analysis 548 patients were diagnosed with metabolic acidosis while 303 patients did not have the condition. Metabolic Acidosis Patients at Twice the Risk for Mortality in Intensive Care Units
FDA Panel Recommends Black Box Warning on ADHD Drugs - Ritalin and Generics included
Ritalin
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory panel voted 8-7 to require “black box” warnings on Ritalin and other stimulant drugs used for treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The black-box warning is the strongest warning that can be placed on a product that has been approved by the FDA.
The FDA did this after hearing about the deaths of 25 people. Of these deaths, 19 were children. According to a CBS report, doctors prescribe these drugs to about 2 million children and 1 million adults a month. The drugs that will receive the new warning are Adderall (made by Shire Pharmaceuticals), Ritalin (made by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp.), Concerta (made by Johnson & Johnson), Methylin (made by Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals), and Metadate (made by UCB). Also the generic versions of Ritalin will need to carry the warning. FDA Panel Recommends Black Box Warning on ADHD Drugs - Ritalin and Generics included
Eating Vegetables may help boost DNA Repair and Guard against Cancer
Broccoli, Cabbage, and Cauliflower
Eating your vegetables is still good for you and the low-fat diet study shouldn’t get you to start a regular fast food diet of hamburgers. The low-fat diet study currently in the news showed that a low-fat diet did not offer the cancer prevention health benefit menopausal women that lowered fat intake and increase fruits and vegetables. Although the magnitude of the low-fat diet didn’t pan out, this study into vegetables reinforce the health benefits in cancer prevention. This study was first published in Nature’s British Journal of Cancer and reflects how the chemical compounds found in certain vegetables can be beneficial in the prevention of cancer. Eating Vegetables may help boost DNA Repair and Guard against Cancer
Global Warming is shortening RSV season, a Serious Respiratory Illness
Global Warming
Researcher, Gavin Donaldson, PhD, from the University College London, studied the relationship between global warming and serious respiratory illness in the UK. He found that as the temperatures went up, the respiratory illness season became shortened.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) causes severe lower respiratory infections usually found in infants and young children. The RSV is can develop into pneumonia and is seasonal like cold and flu season. The RSV season in the UK is from autumn through winter. Global Warming is shortening RSV season, a Serious Respiratory Illness
Low-Fat Diets are not as Beneficial as Thought
Fruits and Vegetables
Postmenopausal women need to do more than just cut fat from their diet to stay healthy, according to a new study. Researchers from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, and colleagues with the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) Dietary Modification Trial conducted a very large scale study.
They followed 48,835 women for eight years and found that “a diet low in fat, but high in fruit, vegetables and grains, does not significantly reduce the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women.” They examined the effect of a low-fat diet with the incidence of breast cancer. It was thought that a low fat diet would reduce breast cancer risk. Low-Fat Diets are not as Beneficial as Thought
Fertility Treatments for Older Couples – Infertility increases with Age
Sperm
There are several options in seeking treatment for infertility. If couples are unable to conceive after one year of trying, experts say you should consider seeking treatment. You may want to receive a thorough diagnostic evaluation to determine the best course of action. This can be done by an infertility specialist.
There are several infertility treatments including Assisted Hatching, micromanipulation, Microsurgical Tubal Repair, ICSI Offers New Hope for Couples With Male Factor, IVF with ICSI - A Treatment For Men With No Sperm in Ejaculate, and Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI).
Women today are waiting to get pregnant more frequently than before. This is the reason for most of the infertility today, according to Dr. Sherman Silber, author of How to Get Pregnant. Fertility Treatments for Older Couples – Infertility increases with Age
Depression may be Linked to Rapid Decline in Alzheimer’s Disease
The Brain
People that suffer from depression may be more likely to have a more rapid decline in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). A study published in the February issue of Archives of General Psychiatry states that “People with a lifetime history of major depressive disorder (MDD) may be more likely to be diagnosed with AD.”
Previous studies have linked depression and Alzheimer’s disease. Both MDD and AD affect the brain’s memory related temporal lobes. Also, MDD is likely to cause atrophy of the hippocampus. The hippocampus is the area of the brain where plaques and tangles form in a patient with AD, according to the authors.
Researchers at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, compared the brains of 44 AD patients with a history of depression to 51 without depression. Of this group, 32 were men and 63 were women. On average age of death was 81 years. Depression may be Linked to Rapid Decline in Alzheimer’s Disease
High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease will Increase Risk for Heart Disease and Stroke - Diuretics Better than ACE Inhibitors
Dr. Rahman
Older Americans with severe chronic kidney disease are more likely to develop heart disease than people with normal kidney function. According to new research published in the Fed. 7th issue Annals of Internal Medicine, patients are at a “higher risk for developing heart disease than kidney failure (end stage renal disease)”.
Newer drugs including ACE inhibitors and calcium-channel blockers are not any better than the older diuretic drugs, according to the new research. These diuretic drugs (water pills) may even be more effective at preventing heart failure in patients with chronic kidney disease.
Lead author of the study, Mahboob Rahman M.D. M.S., of Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, University Hospitals of Cleveland and the Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center said "Overall, ACE inhibitors and diuretics were about equally likely to protect against heart attacks, but diuretics seemed more effective at preventing other kinds of cardiovascular diseases, such as stroke and heart failure." High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease will Increase Risk for Heart Disease and Stroke - Diuretics Better than ACE Inhibitors
Depression Drugs given to Pregnant Mothers May Affect Newborn Babies – Infants Withdraw From SSRIs
SSRIs
Concerns for women taking Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) while pregnant were addressed in a new study published in the Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine. This is one of the archive journals of the American Medical Association.
According to the researchers, infants born to mothers that took SSRIs show signs of withdraw shortly after birth. The journal states that “Almost one-third of 60 newborn infants whose mothers took antidepressants during pregnancy experienced neonatal abstinence syndrome, a type of withdrawal with symptoms that include high-pitched crying, tremors and disturbed sleep.” The authors say that infants born to mothers taking SSRIs while pregnant, should be monitored closely after birth for a minimum of 48 hours. Depression Drugs given to Pregnant Mothers May Affect Newborn Babies – Infants Withdraw From SSRIs
Celiac Disease Symptoms – Doctors need to be Aware of the Condition and Prescribe Drug Tests for it
Digestive Tract
Celiac Disease is a relatively common disease that many people don’t even know they have. The disease usually affects Caucasians. In Ireland, about 1 in 150 people have Celiac disease. In the US the number is 1 in 250 people. Women are more susceptible to it.
The symptoms include nonspecific abdominal pain, gas, bloating, depression, recurrent mouth sores, or may cause women to be infertile. There are a lot of manifestations and doctors should become more aware of the symptoms.
Patients can develop diarrhea and lose weight. ABC News recently ran a story on the subject. Katie Barrett, a 32 year old woman who has suffered with the disease since she was 9 years old, said "It wasn't just my stomach that was bloated, [it was] my whole entire body." She said she felt like the “Pillsbury dough boy”. Celiac Disease Symptoms – Doctors need to be Aware of the Condition and Prescribe Drug Tests for it
Fear of MRSA Staph Infections May Help Boost Home Gym Sales
MRSA Super Bug
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) was once a disease reserved for Convalescent and Assisted Care facilities. Today staph infections have become more common in gyms, locker rooms, whirlpools and from weightlifting equipment.
Last April defensive tackle for the Washington Redskins, Brandon Noble, was sidelined with the infection. According to doctors, if he had waited another 24 hours he could have died or lost a limb. His story was recently featured on an ABC News segment about MRSA.
MRSA usually enter the body from a cut or small scratch. The area may become red and then the infected individual will experience flu like symptoms including intense pain. Fear of MRSA Staph Infections May Help Boost Home Gym Sales
FDA Approves Vaccine for Rotavirus - Dangerous Stomach Flu
Researcher - Stanley A. Plotkin, M.D.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced today that they have approved the licensing of a new vaccine for the rotavirus infection. The rotavirus is responsible for thousands of hospitalizations in the United States and hundreds of thousands of deaths around the world each year.
The ROTATEQ vaccine, developed by Merck & Co, Inc, will be used to protect infants against the highly contagious rotavirus infection. According to the Wistar Institute, this virus is the most common cause of severe dehydrating diarrhea in infants and young children.
Early research for this vaccine began in 1980 by scientists from The Wistar Institute and The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP). In 1991 Merck took on the task of developing the vaccine for the clinic. FDA Approves Vaccine for Rotavirus - Dangerous Stomach Flu
Smoking Pot Could Raise Risk of Bladder Cancer at a Younger Age
Dr. Martha Terris
New research shows that smoking marijuana may raise the risk for bladder cancer occurring at an early age. Bladder cancer is more common among “people age 60 and older”, says Dr. Martha Terris, urologist at the Medical College of Georgia (MCG) and Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Augusta.
Smoking cigarettes is a major risk factor for cancer, but smoking marijuana may be as bad as or worse than cigarette smoking as a risk factor for bladder cancer, according to the report. Since it was known that cigarettes increased the risk, the researchers decided to investigate the risk for marijuana.
The VA hospitals affiliated with Stanford University Medical Center and MCG decided to investigate risk factors associated with exposure to tobacco, radiation, Agent Orange, smoked or processed meats and synthetic dyes used in the textile industry. Smoking Pot Could Raise Risk of Bladder Cancer at a Younger Age
Obesity link - Babies more chance for Complications during and after Pregnancy in Obese Moms
Baby
A recent paper published on Feb 3rd, in the Inter Science online journal found that there is an increased risk for obese mothers to have complications during pregnancy. They also have higher risks for babies being born with medical problems.
Obese women not only are faced with difficult pregnancies, they are also at an increased risk for infertility. During pregnancy the obese woman has a higher chance of having hypertension, gestational diabetes and thromboembolic events. Thromboembolic events are symptoms caused by blood clots which reduce or block blood flow to important tissues. These obese women are also more likely to need a cesarean section delivery. Obesity link - Babies more chance for Complications during and after Pregnancy in Obese Moms
Pritikin Diet and Exercise Program helped treat Type II Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome in Obese and Overweight Patients
Pritikin Weight Loss Book
A recent study published in the online edition of the Journal of Applied Physiology, showed a 50 percent reversal in people with metabolic syndrome, Type 2 diabetes by following the Pritikin diet and exercise program over a 3 week period of time.
The lead researcher, Christian Roberts, from the University of California, Los Angeles said, "The study shows, contrary to common belief, that Type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome can be reversed solely through lifestyle changes."
"This regimen reversed a clinical diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes or metabolic syndrome in about half the participants who had either of those conditions. However, the regimen may not have reversed damage such as plaque development in the arteries," Roberts said. "However, if Type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome continue to be controlled, further damage would likely be minimized and it's plausible that continuing to follow the program long-term may result in reversal of atherosclerosis." Pritikin Diet and Exercise Program helped treat Type II Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome in Obese and Overweight Patients
Obesity Doubles Childs Risk of Diabetes - Study Found Half of the Children are Twice as likely to become Diabetic
Kaufman's Book
A new study says that overweight children are twice as likely to develop diabetes as normal weight children. Although few children in the study had diabetes, their risk factors were “very high”.
The study included 1,740 eighth-graders from 12 U.S. schools. They found that half of the children were either overweight or on the verge of becoming overweight. Being overweight is one of the primary risk factors for type-2 diabetes.
Of these children, 41 percent had elevated blood sugar levels and 36 percent had high levels of insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps process blood sugar. High insulin and blood sugar levels signal that the body is becoming resistant to insulin. This is a precursor to type-2 diabetes. These tests were taken after fasting. Obesity Doubles Childs Risk of Diabetes - Study Found Half of the Children are Twice as likely to become Diabetic
Proteomic Profile may Help Determine Premature Births - Amniotic Fluid used to Detect Infections
New Tests
It may be possible to accurately predict if a birth will be preterm and also detect the presence of an infection in the womb. The diagnosis could save the life of the baby because these conditions can lead to death, brain damage, lung or bowel injury.
Researchers announced this cutting edge research at the 26th Annual Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) meeting. The studies authors were also recognized by an award from the March of Dimes.
The test involves profiling proteins in amniotic fluid for markers of inflammation. This is called a “proteomic profile”. The goal was to not only yield results twice as fast as other tests, but to make the results much more accurate. Proteomic Profile may Help Determine Premature Births - Amniotic Fluid used to Detect Infections
The Miracle of Botox - An Introduction (Part 1)
Botox Treatment
Injections of Botox, one of the fastest-growing cosmetic procedures on the market today, are used for the reduction or elimination of facial wrinkles caused by dynamic, or hyper-functional, muscles (muscles that get a lot of use). Those are the wrinkles that form when you contract your facial muscles to form a frown, squint, grimace, smile, or other type of expression, resulting in those tell-tale lines around your eyes, mouth, or nose, and across your forehead. Botox can be very effective in temporarily getting rid of some, but not all, of your facial wrinkles. But before we talk about which wrin­kles Botox can banish, let's find out more about this popular substance. The Miracle of Botox - An Introduction (Part 1)
The Miracle of Botox - Effect on Wrinkles (Part 2)
Botox Wrinkle Treatment
Which wrinkles and lines bother you the most? Are these lines and wrinkles the type that are best eliminated using Botox?
If you choose to eliminate only the wrinkles that can be treated with Botox, will any of the remaining ones still leave you unsatisfied with your appearance? For example, if you want both your frown lines and marionette lines removed, you will likely need a different cosmetic procedure to have the marionette lines eliminated.
It should point out that Botox injections work best on crow's-feet (wrinkles radiating from the outside corners of the eyes), worry lines (horizontal forehead lines), and frown lines (vertical lines, also called glabellar lines, that appear be­tween the eyebrows). These are wrinkles that are typically caused by chronic contractions of the muscles under or adja­cent to these areas of the face. The Miracle of Botox - Effect on Wrinkles (Part 2)
The Miracle of Botox - Which Wrinkles to Remove? (Part 3)
Botox Treatment
Which wrinkles and lines bother you the most? Are these lines and wrinkles the type that are best eliminated using Botox?
If you choose to eliminate only the wrinkles that can be treated with Botox, will any of the remaining ones still leave you unsatisfied with your appearance? For example, if you want both your frown lines and marionette lines removed, you will likely need a different cosmetic procedure to have the marionette lines eliminated.
From the top of your face down, bothersome facial wrin­kles have the following names and locations. Notice that Botox is not the best choice for all types of wrinkles and lines. The Miracle of Botox - Which Wrinkles to Remove? (Part 3)
Vitamins: Why Do We Take Supplements
B-100 Complex vitamin
Vitamins supplements are so common among us. We can easily buy them at supermarkets or our local drugs store. But what are vitamins? And why should we take them? Nobel Laureate, Fritz Lipmann, once commented, "Doctors like to prescribe vitamins and millions of people take them, but it requires a good deal of biochemical sophistication to understand why they are needed and how the organism uses them."
Vitamins are essential micronutrients that the body cannot supply in sufficient quantities. They therefore must be obtained from the environment (diet or supplements). For simplification, vitamins are classified in two groups, according to whether they are water-soluble or fat-soluble. The water-soluble vitamins include vitamin C and the B-complex vitamins; these are considered for the most part relatively non-toxic. The fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E, K, tend to accumulate in tissues and can be quite toxic at high doses. Vitamins: Why Do We Take Supplements
Antioxidants - How to slow down Aging
colorful vegetables
We are a product of our environment and must be realistic in knowing that the environment is not pure and because of the basic instinct of greed, we are living in a polluted world. The people, who live the longest, exist in the high mountains where the air is not polluted, the water is full of healthy minerals and the food is free of synthetic chemicals.
In the polluted world, we must recognize that polluted air, water and food produce free radicals and pathogenic germs that cause us to prematurely age with diseases and pain. For those of us that live in the chemical world, we can live 20 years or even longer, if we prevent free radicals and pathogens from shortening our life. Anti-aging depends on fighting free radicals and pathogens. Conventional medicine may let us live 20 years longer, but with the expectation of suffering. Fortunately, the choice is ours. Antioxidants - How to slow down Aging
Blue Light may Improve Alertness – Journal Sleep study Found that Color of Light Affects Performance
Blue Light
Researchers at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard Medical School compared the effects of different colored lights on alertness and performance. They found that people exposed to blue light rated themselves as less sleepy, with a quicker reaction time than those exposed to green light. They also claimed to have fewer lapses in their attention than the others.
According to the researchers light may improve “people’s health”. Dr. Steven Lockley, the lead author of the study that appears in this issue of the journal Sleep said “Subjects exposed to blue light were able to sustain a high level of alertness during the night when people usually feel most sleepy, and these results suggest that light may be a powerful countermeasure for the negative effects of fatigue for people who work at night,” according to ABC News. He is a researcher at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital’s Division of Sleep Medicine. Blue Light may Improve Alertness – Journal Sleep study Found that Color of Light Affects Performance
Risk of Stroke reduced by eating more Fruits and Vegetables
Vegetable platter
A recent study published in The Lancet, a British journal, reported that eating five or more servings of fruits and vegetables each day can reduce the risk of a stroke by 26 percent.
The study accessed data from previous research looking at 257,551 people over an average time of 13 years. What the researchers found was a correlation between having the highest risk for strokes in people that ate less than 3 servings of fruits or vegetables a day. If the person ate 3 – 5 servings a day of fruits or vegetables they had a lower risk of having a stroke. The group that ate 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetables a day had the lowest risk of having a stroke. Risk of Stroke reduced by eating more Fruits and Vegetables
Smokers who use the Nicotine Patch prior to Quitting Smoking are Twice as Likely to Quit - Duke University Research
Dr. Jed E Rose
Smokers that used the nicotine patch before they quit smoking were twice as likely to quit as those that did not. It is important to not however that the patches are not recommended for people that still smoke. There are other forms of nicotine replacement products, including gum, nasal sprays, inhalers, lozenges, and tablets.
Researchers at the Duke University Center for Nicotine and Smoking Cessation Research (DNSCR) say that smokers who use the patch before quitting smoking will double their chances of success.
Although smoking rates have gone down over the past few decades, there are still 50 million smokers in the United States. More than half of these smokers say they want to give up the habit for good. Smokers who use the Nicotine Patch prior to Quitting Smoking are Twice as Likely to Quit - Duke University Research
Doctors should consider Anticholinergic Drug Use by Patients before Treating for Alzheimer's Disease in Elderly Patients
Antihistamine
Drugs including bronchodilators, antihistamines, analgesics, anti-hypertensives, antiparkinsonian agents may lead to mild cognitive impairment in elderly patients. According to an article published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) these “anticholinergic drugs” are linked to mental impairment.
These drugs are commonly used to treat irritable bowel syndrome, urinary incontinence and Parkinson’s disease in older patients. In a press release issued by the BMJ, it is important for doctors to be aware of this side effect.
The researchers interviewed 372 elderly people without dementia about their current and past illnesses and drug use. Their cognitive performance was assessed and participants were monitored for up to eight years. Doctors should consider Anticholinergic Drug Use by Patients before Treating for Alzheimer's Disease in Elderly Patients
Constipation Sufferers have New Prescription Drug (Amitiza) Treatment
Over the Counter Alternative
The FDA approved a new drug called Amitiza (lubiprostone) for adult idiopathic constipation. This drug is the first of its chemical type that is being used for this condition. Chronic idiopathic constipation is a condition where the person has constipation that is not caused from other diseases or medications.
The infrequent and difficulty in the passage of stool on a regular basis is a very common problem. Up to 63 million Americans suffer from chronic idiopathic constipation and this condition is usually found in people over the age of 65 years. Women suffer more often than men do. Other side effects of this type of constipation are abdominal pain, feelings of stomach discomfort, bloating, straining and hard stools. Constipation Sufferers have New Prescription Drug (Amitiza) Treatment
Managing Anger – Study says Angry Men cause Injuries
anger
A new report published in the January/February issue of Annals of Family Medicine found that Anger increases the chance of a person becoming injured. Men were injured from anger more often than women.
The researchers studied more than 2,500 patients. By going over the interviews of the people that were seriously injured in the emergency room, the researchers found that 31.7 percent of these patients had some amount of irritability just before being injured. There was 18.1 percent that reported being angry and 13.2 percent felt hostile before the injury happened. Managing Anger – Study says Angry Men cause Injuries. Managing Anger – Study says Angry Men cause Injuries
Current Standards for Screening Women with Heart Disease May not be Sufficient - Angiograph Misses Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction
Angiography
Women are different than men when it comes to heart disease. According to a new study cholesterol plaque may not build up into major blockages in women. In stead, the plaque builds up “evenly” throughout the artery. A coronary angiography may indicate the woman has “clear” arteries (i.e. No blockages). This may be incorrect.
Women may undergo screening and have a clean bill-of-health, or at least be at low risk, when they are actually at a high risk “for heart attack”, according to a newly published research paper from the National Institutes of Health. The plaque will accumulate in the small arteries of the heart (coronary microvascular dysfunction), causing a narrowing of the arteries and a reduction in oxygen flow to the heart. There may be a pain similar to that of people with blocked arteries, even though plaque does not show up on the standard tests. In this case, women will go undiagnosed. Current Standards for Screening Women with Heart Disease May not be Sufficient - Angiograph Misses Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction
Botox Treatments at Botox Parties may be Dangerous
Botox Logo
With news of fake Botox being distributed, how do you know which Botox treatment is legitimate? The official Botox website lets you search for doctors in your area that offer Botox treatments.
Many people are going to unauthorized and illegal places to get cosmetic treatments, such as Botox parties. It is in these circumstances that you are putting yourself at risk for a slew of problems. According to the Miami Herald, a 53-year-old Florida woman died in 2001 from getting silicon injections in her buttocks at one of these types of parties. Botox Treatments at Botox Parties may be Dangerous
Pregnant Women should Keep Taking Antidepressants to Avoid Relapse of Depression
Yoga during Pregnant
Women who stop taking antidepressants during pregnancy are five times more likely to have relapse of depression than women who continue the medication throughout their pregnancy. According to Lee Cohen, MD, director of the Perinatal and Reproductive Clinical Research Program at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), who led the investigation “Clinical lore has held for decades that pregnancy protected women from mood disorders.”
The findings from the first systematic clinical study of depression relapse runs counter to the long held belief that hormonal changes can prevent psychiatric problems. Dr. Cohen said "What drove this study was a divergence between that belief and what many of us were seeing clinically, that many women who stopped using antidepressants during pregnancy appeared to be relapsing."
According to the MGH press release, many published studies have supported the safety of antidepressant drugs taken while pregnant. There have been some reports of prenatal exposure to the popular selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). These exposures could cause transient agitation or distress in newborns, according to MGH. Pregnant Women should Keep Taking Antidepressants to Avoid Relapse of Depression - Pregnancy Hormones Don't Protect - Study
Smart Parents more likely to have Autistic Children – Genetic Link with Analytical Minds and Autism
Einstein
In an article published in the Archives of Disease of Childhood, Professor Baron-Cohen claims that children born to analytical couples, such as scientists, may be more likely to have children with autism. Cohen, a professor at the University of Cambridge, believes the same gene that makes people analytical may also impair social and communications skills.
A weakness in communications and social skills is a key characteristic of autism, according to the paper. It is believed that one in 100 children has a form of autism, and most of these are boys. According to the researchers, the number of diagnoses seems to be on the increase. Some believe this may be because of greater awareness though.
Dr. Cohen labels people such as scientists, mathematicians and engineers as “systemizers”. They are skilled in analyzing systems, like vehicles, math equations, etc. to figure out how they work. Smart Parents more likely to have Autistic Children – Genetic Link with Analytical Minds and Autism
Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients may Benefit from using Statin Drugs
fluvastatin
Researchers from Japan have found that patients with rheumatoid arthritis may benefit from use of statin drugs. These drugs have been used to lower cholesterol, but also may benefit arthritis sufferers because of their role in inflammation and other cellular processes, including the immune response.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes the proliferation of synovial tissue, which lines the joints. Statins have been shown to cause apoptosis in both normal cells and tumor cells. Apoptosis is another word for cell death. Statins may induce apoptosis in synovial cells of patients with RA.
The study published in the February 2006 issue of the Arthritis & Rheumatism journal, examines whether statins are able to induce apoptosis in synovial cells. This may prove to be “novel way of treating the disease.” Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients may Benefit from using Statin Drugs
Arthritis Damaged Cartilage may be treated with Stem Cells
Cartilage in a joint (in red)
A study published in the February 2006 issue of Arthritis & Rheumatism found that rats treated with muscle-derived stem cells helped to repair torn cartilage.
Articular cartilage which is the cartilage found at the ends of bones where they meet at a joint can become damaged from injury or illness. At this time there is no treatment to restore and repair completely this type of injured cartilage. The researcher’s looked further into the possibility of stem cells that came from muscles instead of bone marrow. The researchers on this study took the muscle-derived stem cells (MDSCs) with a therapeutic protein to see if the articular cartilage could be repaired in rats. Arthritis Damaged Cartilage may be treated with Stem Cells
A New Study Says a Virus Can Cause Obesity – Adenovirus Ad-37 May Make People Fat
Adenovirus
A Virus may be responsible for obesity in some people. Researchers have found that adenovirus AD-37 causes obesity in chickens. This finding builds on studies that two related viruses,Ad-36 and Ad-5, cause obesity in animals. Lead researcher Leah D. Whigham said "Adipogenic potential of multiple human adenoviruses in vivo and in vitro in animals," in the January issue of the American Journal of Physiology-Regulatory, Integrative and Comparative Physiology published by the American Physiological Society.
There seems to be an “accumulating evidence” that viruses may cause obesity, in effect making obesity contagious, according Leah. The researchers now say “Eat right, exercise, and wash your hands”.
These three viruses, Ad-37, Ad-36 and Ad-5 are part of a family of approximately 50 viruses know as human adenoviruses. Adenoviruses were first discovered in 1953 by investigators trying to establish cell-lines from adenoidal tissue of children removed during tonsillectomy. A New Study Says a Virus Can Cause Obesity – Adenovirus Ad-37 May Make People Fat
Dance Dance Revolution helps kids lose weight - New Dancing Game from Japan
Dance Revolution
Parents and teachers are always looking for ways to help kids lose weight. A new game from Japan may help. Dance Dance Revolution has been around the US for a few years, but now West Virginia is embracing the game for their middle school students.
According to the Bluefield Daily Telegraph in West Virginia, since many students don’t like traditional sports like basketball, football, baseball or soccer, this new game will give the kids a choice. The schools are targeting youths between 10 to 14 years of age. This is not to replace physical education or health classes, but as an option for students who dislike the other sports.
According to the Associated Press (AP), the problem with obesity is a significant health risk and close to half (46 percent) of more than 30,000 fifth graders screened for coronary artery risk project from 1999 to 2005 were overweight or obese. This is published in the Institute of Medicine guidelines. Dance Dance Revolution helps kids lose weight - New Dancing Game from Japan
Sleep Disorders and Headaches Connected – Children that suffer Headaches might have Sleep Problems
Children - headaches and sleep
Many children that suffer from daily chronic headaches also suffer from sleep disturbances, especially a delay in sleep onset. Researchers at the Mayo Clinic believe there may be an association. The findings will be presented at the 24th Annual Conference on Sleep Disorders in Infancy and Childhood in Rancho Mirage, California.
Kenneth Mack, MD, PhD, pediatric neurologist specializing in headache and the senior study investigator said "What's novel in our study is the finding that a high percentage of patients with headache have sleep disturbance." One-fifth of the children with episodic headaches also had sleep problems. The children “also have the same sleep disturbances: a delay in sleep onset." Sleep Disorders and Headaches Connected – Children that suffer Headaches might have Sleep Problems
Erectile Dysfunction (ED) Related to Heart Disease - New Study Links
Dr. Parker Ward
A recent study from the University of Chicago has shown that Erectile Dysfunction (ED) “was a stronger predictor of significant coronary heart disease than any of the traditional office-based risk factors, such as family history, cholesterol levels or blood pressure.” Erectile Dysfunction patients were also more likely to have reduced exercise endurance and a reduced ejection fraction. Ejection fraction is a measure of the hearts pumping capacity.
Earlier studies have linked ED with atherosclerotic vascular disease. This study links ED with “abnormal results on cardiac stress testing, including evidence for severe coronary artery blockages and markers of a poor cardiovascular prognosis,” according to the researchers. Erectile Dysfunction (ED) Related to Heart Disease - New Study Links
Exubera Inhaled Insulin Expected to be Available Soon for Diabetes Treatment
Exubera Inhaler
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first inhaled form of insulin on Friday. This method of intake is easier than injections and gives millions of adult diabetics an alternative to the older form of administering insulin. Americans can expect to see this on the market by midyear.
Exubera, developed by Nektar Therapeutics, is a powder form of recombinant human insulin (rDNA) for treating adults with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. According to an FDA press release, this is the first “insulin delivery option introduced since the discovery of insulin in the 1920s.”
Dr. Steven Galson, Director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research for the FDA said "It is our hope that the availability of inhaled insulin will offer patients more options to better control their blood sugars." Exubera Inhaled Insulin Expected to be Available Soon for Diabetes Treatment
Fruits and Vegetables will Reduce Risk of Stroke
Five servings per day
The more fruits and vegetables you eat the lower your risk of stroke, according to a new analysis of studies. Eating three servings a day will reduce the risk of stroke, but eating five or more will produce an even greater protective effect.
Earlier studies indicated that consuming more than three servings of fruits and vegetables a day will help lower blood pressure. High blood pressure is a risk factor for stroke. Earlier studies have shown that the “Dash Diet” has lowered blood pressure, so it is no surprise that the risk for stroke is also lessened.
Increasing you consumption of fruits and vegetables is good for the heart and other organs for several reasons. First off, by eating more fruits and veggies you are likely to reduce the consumption of foods with high fat. You will eat less desert and red meat. Fruits and Vegetables will Reduce Risk of Stroke
Tomatoes can Lower High Blood Pressure - Study in Israel Recommends Tomato Sauce
Tomatoes
It appears tomatoes can benefit people with high blood pressure. Israeli scientists asked 54 people with moderately high blood pressure, even when treated with medication, to add a daily dose of concentrated tomato extract in capsule form to their diet. Rather than add another medication the patients opted to try the tomato extract, equivalent to 4 tomatoes per day.
The researchers conducted a double blind study where the patients were either given a placebo or a capsule of tomato complex. The complex of ingredients included potent antioxidants, such as lycopene, phytoene, phytofluene, beta-carotene, tocopherols (vitamin E), phospolipids and phytosterols. In a published article by Jamie Talan in Newsday, Dr. Esther Parn head of the hypertension division at Soroka medical center and professor of medicine at Ben Gurion University in Beer Sheva, Israel, said the drop in blood pressure was equal to drop they would have looked for by prescribing another medication. “But there are no side effects”, she said. Tomatoes can Lower High Blood Pressure - Study in Israel Recommends Tomato Sauce
Popular Fermented Scandinavian Milk Drink Lowers Blood Pressure - Valio Brand
Valio Popular Brand
A popular Scandinavian fermented milk drink appears to reduce blood pressure using the same mechanism as common angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors pills. According to research published in the American Journal of Hypertension, the beverage will help reduce blood pressure in people with hypertension.
The drinks are made by adding Lactobacillus to milk, which breaks down the milk protein called casein into two protein fragments. These fragments, called tripeptides, have been shown to reduce blood pressure in animal studies and also people with mild hypertension.
This study lasted for 10 weeks where 94 people with un-treated hypertension were divided into two groups. One group drank 150 ml of fermented milk while the other did not. Participants had their blood pressure monitored. Popular Fermented Scandinavian Milk Drink Lowers Blood Pressure - Valio Brand
Common Drug Used During Heart Surgery is Dangerous - Aprotinin (Trasylol) causes Kidney - Heart Attacks and Stokes
Trasylol
A commonly used drug during heart surgery could cause serious complications including kidney damage, an increased risk of hear attack, heart failure and stroke. The drug called aprotinin (the brand name is Trasylol), is used to control bleeding on as many as 1 million heart and bypass surgery patients per year.
Aprotinin doubles the risk of kidney damage but also increases the risk of heart attack by 48%. Heart failure risk is also increased by 109% and stroke by 181%. The study looked at 4,400 patients.
There are safer alternatives. In fact the generic alternatives cost a tenth as much as aprotinin and are almost as effective, according to a report in the LA Times. Aprotonin is derived from cow lungs and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1993. Common Drug Used During Heart Surgery is Dangerous - Aprotinin (Trasylol) causes Kidney - Heart Attacks and Stokes
Parkinson’s disease - LRRK2 Gene mutation Identified
Middle East
A group of researchers from Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and Manhattan hospital, Beth Israel Medical Center have isolated a gene mutation which is a major cause of Parkinson’s disease which among Ashkenazi Jewish patients.
The report will be published in today’s issue of The New England Journal of Medicine. Researchers of this study believe that this will be the first time that a genetic test can help determine the risk for developing Parkinson’s disease. Before this there was no genetic test to help to determine the risk. Parkinson’s disease - LRRK2 Gene mutation Identified
New Fertility Test Counts Number of Eggs in Ovaries - Plan Ahead Test Triple Hormone Test
Plan Ahead Tests
A new test is being made available to help determine how late in life a woman can conceive. The test works by measuring the number of eggs in a woman's ovaries. The British firm Lifestyle Choices has launched the world’s first publicly available triple-hormone fertility ovarian reserve test kit. The test is called Plan Ahead.
Many professional women worry that if they excel in their career now, they will not be able to have children later on. Some women may give up the career in order to start a family earlier. Wouldn’t be nice to know if you can wait to have children?
Developed at the University Of Sheffield, England, the test works by taking a blood sample during a women’s menstrual cycle. The test will measure two ovarian hormones, Inhibin B and AMH, and a third pituitary hormone FSH. According to the company the test is accurate for up to two years ahead. New Fertility Test Counts Number of Eggs in Ovaries - Plan Ahead Test Triple Hormone Test
Breakthrough Treatments for Fighting Breast Cancer – Herceptin, Avastin, Femara and Lapatinib
Avastin kills Cancer Cells
There are some exciting breakthroughs in the treatment of breast cancer. Recently the FDA approved Femara for the treatment of early stage breast cancer. It had already been used to treat the cancer in late stages of the disease. Back in October an article in the New England Journal of Medicine described the drug Herceptin, and its effectiveness in treating a very aggressive form of the disease.
About 20 to 25 percent of the breast cancer cases are of the HER-2 variety and aggressively strike younger women. The researchers found that the compound was able to reduce the reoccurrence of breast cancer in 46% of the women.
Recently ABC News had a segment on the new advances in fighting breast cancer. The show mentioned Herceptin but also informed their viewers of a new drug that hopefully will be available soon called Lapatinib. This experimental treatment may be better than Herceptin because it blocks two proteins in certain cancer cells, while Herceptin affects only one. Breakthrough Treatments for Fighting Breast Cancer – Herceptin, Avastin, Femara and Lapatinib
Comment on this Article at our Forum
Submit your own Article
Diet and Fitness Special Topic
RSS Feed to our Diet & Fitness News
RSS Feed to our health News
RSS Feed to all of our News
Nutrition and Fitness
Best Syndication
Books on Dieting
Keywords and misspellings: deit pills hoodia rimonabant rinomabant rinonant rinomabent wieght watcher
Web BestSyndication.com
About Contact site map
Copyright 2005 Best Syndication Last Updated Sunday, July 11, 2010 01:17 AM