Nobi Nutrition Magnesium Complex USA Consumer Report
Skip to content
USA Consumer Report
Leading Product Analysis and Review
Menu
Home
Top Nutrition Reviews
Supplement Reviews
Top Rated Omega 3 of 2019
Honorable Mention Omega 3s
Best Turmeric Supplements of 2019
Honorable Mention Turmeric
Top Rated Multivitamins of 2019
Honorable Mention Multivitamins
NOW Food Digest Ultimate Review
Best Biotin Supplements: Our Top 5 Picks
Nutrition Articles
Benefits of Turmeric
Turmeric Capsules vs Foods
Alzheimer’s and Turmeric
Benefits of Omega 3
Benefits of Multivitamins
Cosmetics
Cosmetics Review Process
Featured Cosmetics
Electronics
Best Tech Deals of 2019
Nobi Nutrition Magnesium Complex
If you’re looking for a vegan/vegetarian-friendly and straight-forward magnesium supplement, it’s worth considering Nobi Nutrition’s Magnesium Complex.
This product made our list of the best magnesium supplements on the market.
In this review, you’ll learn about this product’s ingredients, its potential health benefits, and our assessment of it.
Product Ingredients/Supplement Facts
This product contains:
500mg of Magnesium (Oxide/Citrate)
Other ingredients include: hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, vegetable magnesium stearnate, and silicon dioxide.
Potential Health Benefits
Magnesium has many important roles in the human body. As a result, having a magnesium deficiency can lead to a number of negative side effects, including high blood pressure, muscle cramps, psychological disorders, heart arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat), asthma, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, and more.
To give you an idea of how important magnesium is, it’s “involved in over 600 enzymatic reactions including energy metabolism and protein synthesis”. (1)
It has a number of specific health benefits as well.
For example, taking a magnesium supplement may help prevent and treat headaches and migraines. (2) (3)
Magnesium is an anti-inflammatory. Chronic inflammation is harmful and can lead to several diseases and conditions, including cancer. Low magnesium levels are associated with diseases and conditions caused by inflammation. (4) (5) (6)
Magnesium is important for exercise performance as well.
Magnesium helps remove lactic acid from the muscles while exercising. Lactic acid buildup leads to muscle fatigue.
Magnesium also helps transport blood sugar into the muscles, which acts as an energy source. (7)
Magnesium lowers blood pressure, which may be a good thing if you have hypertension. (8) (9) (10)
Magnesium plays a role in brain function and some studies suggest that supplementing with it may provide relief from depression. (11)
Dosage & When to Take It
A serving size of this supplement is one vegetable capsule. There are 60 servings in a bottle.
Pros/Cons
Pros Cons
May help prevent and/or treat headaches/migraines Contains more magnesium than necessary for the daily value
Magnesium is an anti-inflammatory Can cause digestive discomfort
May boost exercise performance
May lower blood pressure
May provide relief from depression
Vegan/vegetarian-friendly
Made in a GMP facility
Has a 60-day money-back guarantee
Non-GMO
Product Overview
As far as magnesium supplements go, this one ticks most of the right boxes.
It’s a simple and straight-forward product for people who just want a magnesium supplement and don’t need any other unnecessary ingredients.
However, considering this supplement contains 125% of the daily value, we consider that to be a downside other than for people with severe deficiencies. Too much magnesium can result in harmful side effects, so you should talk with your doctor before taking a magnesium supplement.
Other than that caveat, Nobi Nutrition’s Magnesium Complex is worth considering if you’re in the market for a magnesium supplement.
Sources
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25540137
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12786918
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18705538
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20388094
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20536778
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25023192
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24465574
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9719052
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19617879
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24149738
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25748766
Categories Supplement Reviews	Post navigation
TigerEye Raspberry Ketones Review
aSquared Nutrition Raspberry Ketones Review
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
Dawn Cohen
As a consumer and nutrition enthusiast herself, Dawn Cohen has dedicated the past 7 years of her life to tracking down the safest and most effective supplements and brands. She has made a career out of her passion to educate herself and the public on personal health and well-being.
Seven Things To Look For in Your Turmeric Supplement
✓ 95% Standardized Turmeric Curcumin
✓ Bioperine
✓ Purity
✓ Quality Testing
✓ Freshness of Product
✓ Satisfaction Guarantee
✓ Company Integrity and Return Policy
Looking for the best turmeric supplement?
#1: BlueBiology Turmeric Curcumin
Standardized 95% with Bioperine
#2: RV Turmeric Curcumin
#3: Paragon Turmeric Curcumin
Site Links
Nutrition Articles
Top Nutrition Reviews
Cosmetics
Electronics
Privacy Policy
Leave a Review
Search the Site
Search for:
*Disclaimer: The information contained on USA Consumer Report is intended for informational and educational purposes only. No statements made on this website have been evaluated by the FDA. The information and products discussed on USA Consumer Report are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease or illness. Please consult a medical professional before making changes to your diet or taking supplements that may interact negatively with medications. ©2018 USA Consumer Report