The FDA Was Wise to Approve a New Opioid | Accelerating Future
Accelerating Future
Top News
World
Business
Technology
Sport
Entertainment
Health
More
Articles
Israel News
Middle East News
Home
World News
Tweet
Wall Street Journal: The FDA Was Wise to Approve a New Opioid
2018-11-08 (169 Days Old)Total Views: 81 | Last 7 Days: 5
The use of Dsuvia is limited, and wounded soldiers need it.
20
Wall Street Journal
United States
Food and Drug Administration
World News
Short URL
Go!
Latest News
FOX: New York Post: Social justice warriors are going to utterly maul Joe Biden
CNN: US economy posts strong gains in the first quarter
CBS: Sex. Consent. Education.
CBS: Climate change worsens economic inequality, scientists say
CBS: Sex. Consent. Education.
CBC: Boyz N the Hood director John Singleton in coma after stroke
BBC: Nicola Sturgeon: Scotland 'needs maximum flexibility' over indyref2
BBC: WW2 lost 'clickers' sought for 75th D-Day anniversary
BBC: Anita Hill says she wants 'real accountability' from Joe Biden
ABC: Germany's RWE says it won't invest in new coal power plants
ABC: Ford: Justice Dept. opens probe into emissions certification
NewYorkTimes: Floods Feared as Cyclone Kenneth Slows Over Mozambique
FOX: Kevin McCarthy's 'Avengers: Endgame' 5-star review: masterful, one of the best superhero movies of all time
FOX: Geraldo warns that Democrats ignore anarchy at the border 'at their peril'
FOX: US economy grew at strong 3.2% rate in first quarter
FOX: More than 1,000 Cuban migrants break out of Mexican immigration facility
FOX: US economy grew at strong 3.2% rate in first quarter
FOX: Washington Post media critic uses 'Bring Your Child to Work' day to bash Sarah Sanders
FOX: More than 1,000 Cuban migrants break out of Mexican immigration facility
CNN: Late night pokes fun at Joe Biden's presidential bid
CNN: Cyclone: More than 30,000 evacuated
CNN: World's oceans are becoming stormier
CBS: How an American tourist kidnapped in Uganda found humanity in the men who took her
11 Related Articles from 2018-11-06
Duncan Hines cake mixes recalled over potential salmonella contamination, FDA says. Dessert lovers should be on the lookout for at least four Duncan Hines cake mix flavors which were voluntarily recalled due to salmonella concerns, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced Monday. >>
FDA approves drug to make cow manure less stinky. The FDA has, for the first time, approved a drug that should reduce the smell of cow manure. Buzz60's Tony Spitz has the sweet-smelling details. >>
FDA approves opioid painkiller 1,000 times stronger than morphine. The painkiller Dsuvia is also 10 times stronger than fentanyl. The opioid tablet was approved for use on Friday. >>
FDA approves opioid pill 1,000 times stronger than morphine despite warnings 'it will kill people'. Despite criticism, on Friday, the FDA approved a pill form of sufentanil, a cousin of fentanyl estimated to be as much as 10 times as powerful as the drug that has fueled the opioid epidemic. >>
FDA approves super-potent opioid more powerful than morphine. Critics of the new drug call it "dangerous" and say it "will kill people." >>
FDA-approves new painkiller stronger than fentanyl. The tiny pill, "Dsuvia," will be restricted to use only in health care settings such as hospitals. Critics worry it will fuel an already grim opioid epidemic. >>
Sanofi and Regeneron's Dupixent gets more positive feedback from U.S. FDA. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regulator has given more positive feedback on the Dupixent eczema treatment being developed by drugmakers Sanofi and Regeneron, the companies said on Tuesday. >>
Sanofi and Regeneron's Dupixent gets more positive feedback from U.S. FDA - companies. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regulator gave more positive feedback on the Dupixent eczema treatment being developed by drugmakers Sanofi and Regeneron, the companies said on Tuesday. >>
Sanofi and Regeneron's Dupixent gets more positive feedback from U.S. FDA: companies. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regulator gave more positive feedback on the Dupixent eczema treatment being developed by drugmakers Sanofi and Regeneron, the companies said on Tuesday. >>
Some Ortho-Novum birth control pills recalled due to wrong instructions. Taking the wrong pill on the wrong day could cause bleeding or pregnancy, the FDA says. >>
UPDATE 1-Sanofi and Regeneron's Dupixent gets more positive feedback from U.S. FDA. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regulator has given more positive feedback on the Dupixent eczema treatment being developed by drugmakers Sanofi and Regeneron, the companies said on Tuesday. >>