Dry Fruits During Pregnancy | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Parenting
Pregnancy
Pregnancy and Nutrition
Dry Fruits During Pregnancy
Sara Ipatenco
About the Author:
Sara Ipatenco
Sara Ipatenco has taught writing, health and nutrition. She started writing in 2007 and has been published in Teaching Tolerance magazine. Ipatenco holds a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in education, both from the University of Denver.
View Full Profile
It's smart to wonder about the safety of dry fruits now that you're expecting a baby, because what you eat and what you don't eat can affect your unborn child. Dry fruits, however, are not a food you need to be concerned about. In fact, you should include dry fruits in your pregnancy diet because they're rich in certain vitamins and minerals that you need for good health and that your unborn baby needs to meet growth milestones.
Pregnant woman. (Image: Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images)
The Fiber Is Fabulous
Dried apricot. (Image: Dave King/Dorling Kindersley RF/Getty Images)
If you're like many pregnant women, you've experienced constipation at some point during your pregnancy. Constipation is likely because of the change in hormones that occurs when you're pregnant and because of the additional iron you're getting in your prenatal vitamin. A low-fiber diet is another reason why you could be experiencing constipation, and adding dry fruits to your diet is one way to get the 25 to 30 grams of fiber recommended by the American Pregnancy Association. A 1/4 cup serving of dried apricots contains 1.63 grams of fiber, and a 1/4 cup of dried apples has 1.3 grams. Prunes have almost 2 grams per 1/4 cup, and raisins have 1.5 grams per 1/4 cup.
Let's Hear It for Iron
Close up of raisins. (Image: Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images)
You need 27 milligrams of iron each day during pregnancy to support normal blood development and reduce your risk of preterm delivery. Dry fruits supply small amounts of iron that can help you achieve this goal. A 1/4-cup serving of dried apricots, for example, contains about 0.6 grams of iron, which is 2 percent of what you need each day. The same amount of raisins supplies 0.78 milligrams. Other types of dried fruit, such as apples and prunes, deliver small amounts of iron as well. Dates and dried figs are additional sources of iron, according to the BabyCenter website.
More Marvelous Vitamins and Minerals
Dried banana chips. (Image: hbak/iStock/Getty Images)
Some dry fruit, such as dates and bananas, supply magnesium, a mineral that helps your baby's bones and nerves form and function normally. Most dry fruit, including apricots, apples and dates, also supplies potassium, another mineral that aids in muscle control and can help prevent the development of high blood pressure. Some dry fruit, such as apricots, is also a good source of vitamin A, which helps your baby's bones and teeth form properly.
But Watch the Calories
Dried cranberries. (Image: bhofack2/iStock/Getty Images)
Dry fruit is higher in calories than fresh fruit, which means that you should limit your intake during pregnancy. This is because too many calories will cause you to gain more weight than necessary. A 1/4 cup of dried apricots contains 53 calories, and the same amount of prunes has 63 calories. A 1/4 cup of raisins contains 124 calories. Limiting your intake of sugar is also important during pregnancy because added sugar increases the unnecessary calories in your diet, which can lead to unhealthy weight gain, according to the American Pregnancy Association. Many dry fruits contain added sugar, but you can overcome this drawback by opting for varieties without added sugar.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
USDA National Nutrient Database: Apricots, Dried, Sulfured, Stewed, Without Added Sugar
USDA National Nutrient Database: Apples, Dried, Sulfured, Stewed, Without Added Sugar
USDA National Nutrient Database: Plums, Dried (Prunes), Stewed, Without Added Sugar
USDA National Nutrient Database: Raisins, Seedless
BabyCenter: What Are the Benefits of Dried Fruits and Nuts During Pregnancy?
American Pregnancy Association: Pregnancy and Constipation
American Pregnancy Association: Nutrients and Vitamins for Pregnancy
American Pregnancy Association: Pregnancy Weight Gain
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
The Nutritional Value and Glycemic Index of Dried Fruit
2
Will Dried Fruit Cause Weight Gain?
3
Nutrition Facts on Dry Vs. Cooked Oatmeal
4
Are Dates Healthy During a Pregnancy?
5
Health Benefits of Dried Fruit
6
Vitamins in Prunes
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.