Clean up our lymps to reduce restless leg syndrome – Motherhealth , a Bay Area Senior Home Care 4088541883
Skip to content
Motherhealth , a Bay Area Senior Home Care 4088541883
Caring bay area caregivers. Referrals to senior care facilities. HCO 434700121 Live-in home care. San Mateo, Peninsula, SF, Alameda, Santa Clara. Affordable and personalized care at home and in facilities
Menu
We service bay area for in home care
Personalized Diet ebook
brain
anti-aging
Bayarea Caregivers
Seniors
Alzheimer’s Disease
Healing tips, arthritis, skin, digestive and stress issues
Genetic tests now available for all USA doctors
Clean up our lymps to reduce restless leg syndrome
Clean up our lymps to reduce restless leg syndrome
2
February 14, 2015 October 20, 2016
Written by connie dello buono
We have ingested processed foods that are inflammatory like milk with hormones, soda and other foods, non whole foods. We have to up our immune system. Lack of sleep is a symptom of lack of magnesium and calcium and other important nutrients. We have to stop chronic symptoms early, we can still detox. Our chiropractor, naturopath, herbalist and other osteopathic doctors can help clean up our lymps. Restless leg syndrome is our body telling us of the presence of inflammatory substances, our immune system weakened and can in the future when not healed lead to Parkinson’s.
Keep in mind that in your Restless Legs Recovery you are addressing THREE main areas.
1. It is certain that you have chronic inflammation. This will be lessened.
2. It is very likely that you have higher than normal histamine levels, which contributes to a racing mind and sleepless nights. This will be lowered.
3. It is very likely that you have higher than normal glutamate levels, which also contributes to a racing mind and sleepless nights. This will be lowered.
Basic Group
NAME BENEFITS DETAILS
CalMag(Calcium + Magnesium) anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine
lowers glutamate level Magnesium (Mg) is a co-factor in several hundred enzymatic reactions in the human body. A deficiency can result in a wide variety of health problems. The symptoms of many chronic conditions are indentical to those of magnesium deficiency. Magnesium calms the nervous system, while countering fatigue. Magnesium supports your endocrine system, which and influences your brain’s levels of neurotransmitters, including GABA. Magnesium reduces histamine release. Magnesium plays a direct role in lowering common inflammatory markers. The interaction of calcium with magnesium is not yet fully understood, but it appears that both minerals work best when they are taken together. Magnesium is required for calcium to maintain its metabolic functions. 14.
Carrot Juice anti-inflammatory Carrots are perhaps best known for their rich supply of the antioxidant nutrient that was actually named for them: beta-carotene. However, these delicious root vegetables are the source not only of beta-carotene, but also of a wide variety of antioxidants and other health-supporting nutrients. The areas of antioxidant benefits, cardiovascular benefits, and anti-cancer benefits are the best-researched areas of health research with respect to dietary intake of carrots. Carrot polyacetylenes have anti-inflammatory properties and anti-aggregatory properties (that help prevent excessive clumping together of red blood cells). So in addition to the unique mix of antioxidants in carrot, polyacetylenes may play a key role in the cardiovascular protection provided by this amazing food. The vitamin A in carrots is a natural antihistamine. Our body can prepare vitamin A from the plant pigment carotenoids, which have strong antioxidant properties. 18.19.
Curcumin anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine A component of the popular Indian curry spice turmeric, which is a member of the ginger family. Curcumin has been used as a component of Indian Ayurvedic medicine since 1,900 BCE to treat a wide variety of ailments. Curcumin is considered a potent non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory. Certain chemical constituents in Curcumin deactivate immune cells that may cause inflammation without harming other parts of the immune system that are essential in fighting infection. When regularly consumed, the curcumin in turmeric acts as a natural antihistamine and antioxidant for chronic hives, inflammatory skin ailments, and allergic reactions. Curcumin contains polyphenols and curcuminoids that have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-amyloid properties. In a postoperative inflammation model for evaluating ant- iinflammatory activity, curcumin was found to have greater activity than phenylbutazone or placebo in a double. blind clinical trial. Curcumin has been shown to be as effective as cortisone and phenylbutazone in decreasing inflammation. It also works in several ways to decrease inflammation by reducing prostaglandin activity. Researchers also believe that curcumin increases cortisone’s anti-inflammatory action by making the body more sensitive to this hormone. Curcumin can inhibit both the activity and the synthesis of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) and 5-lipooxygenase (5-LOX), as well as other enzymes that have been implicated in inflammation. Curcumin has also been shown to work through numerous other mechanisms. More than 700 genes have been shown to be modulated by curcumin. There is numerous experimental data that suggest that curcumin can accelerate wound healing. It’s as strong as NSAID’s, but without the negative side effects. 37.38.39.40.41.42.43
Grape Seed Extract anti-inflammatory
natural antihistaminelowers glutamate level Grape Seed Extract is one of the most potent antioxidants known; over 50 times more potent than Vitamin E or C. It acts as a natural antihistamine and anti-inflammatory. The main active component is its high content of proanthocyanidin (OPC or PCO). Proanthocyanidin is found in red, white, and purple grapes, blueberries, cherries and plums. The PCO is found mainly in the peels, skins or seeds. Grape seed extract is also reported to help control glutamate by protecting the glutamate receptors and to repair nerves in the brain. It works well in conjunction with pycnogenol. 3.4.104.
Iron anti-inflammatory Iron is an essential mineral whose main function is to help carry oxygen from the lungs to the muscles and other organs. About 30% of the body’s supply of iron is in storage, ready to be replaced if any is lost. When iron is low, this oxygen consumption slows down. Iron deficiency is more common than many think. It is estimated that only 65-70% of all Americans meet their daily recommended intake. When depleted, oxygen circulates more slowly. If the body is low in iron, fatigue, irritability and headaches may occur. We absorb less iron during times of inflammation. Inflammation decreases the production of red blood cells by releasing small proteins that effect how your body uses iron and how your body produces erythropoietin, a hormone that controls production of red blood cells. Since your red blood cells carry oxygen, when there are not enough of them your body’s organs do not get enough oxygen 9.10.11.
L-Theanine lowers glutamate level L-Theanine is thought to be the key to tea’s subtle but calming effects despite the caffeine content in tea. L-Theanine is thought to counter the stimulating effects of caffeine by increasing the production of alpha brain waves. Alpha waves are associated with a state of deep relaxation while being mentally alert. In studies, subjects on L-Theanine exhibited alpha brain wave patterns similar to the state achieved by those during meditation. L-Theanine easily crosses the blood brain barrier, and is thought to play a role in increasing and regulating several neurotransmitters, most notably GABA (gamma amino butyric acid), which is an important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. GABA promotes a pleasant calm without the drowsiness. L-Theanine is thought to interact with dopamine and serotonin as well, resulting in increased focus, improved memory and learning ability. There are very few supplements that can claim as many proven benefits as L-Theanine and in as many areas. Not only does L-Theanine cross the blood brain barrier to increase alertness and stimulate neurons and dopamine production but it also strengthens the immune system, and may have a very high impact on overall heart health.12.13.
Omega 3 anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Extensive research indicates that omega-3 fats reduce inflammation, helping to prevent inflammatory diseases like heart disease and arthritis. In addition to warding off inflammation, omega-3’s are also essential to the brain, impacting behavior and cognitive function. The omega-3 fatty acids can also be natural antihistamines that are useful to combat allergies as they reduce the inflammatory reaction associated with allergies. 5.6.
Valerian Tea anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine
lowers glutamate level Valerian works exceedingly well for anxiety, insomnia and stress. Many people don’t know about one of the oldest herbs in existence valerian. Valerian has many healing qualities … in fact the latin root word valere means to be healthy. Valerian is one of the best herbs for stress … helping with insomnia, restlessness, nervousness, and inducing relaxation. Valerian is a good anti-inflammatory agent helping with swelling, pain, and redness??? plus it also calms nerves … and promotes peace of mind. The University of Maryland Medical Center says valerian root might increase the concentration of GABA within your brain. Because of this action, valerian is often prescribed as a natural remedy for anxiety and those affected by insomnia. It might take up to three weeks of consistent use for its effects to be felt. Valerian root is not only a powerful anxiolytic, it’s also a natural antihistamine. Drink a cup every night before bed. It’s very calming. PLEASE NOTE: valerian has a powerful unpleasant smell and also tastes quite bitter. What I do to take the edge off is mix in a some peppermint (which is another anti-inflammatory). The peppermint takes away a lot of the bitterness (and a bit of the strong odor). 15.16.17.
Vitamin C anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine In addition to being a powerful anti-oxidant and immune booster, some studies have shown that high doses of vitamin c can help reduce sensitivity to allergens and reduce inflammation, mucus production and wheezing. Researchers at Arizona State University indicated that taking 2000mg of vitamin c per day reduces histamine levels in the blood by up to 40%. In order to act as a natural antihistamine the dose is usually greater than 1000mg per day. Vitamin C in high doses may have beneficial effects on acute inflammation and blood vessel functioning.7.8.
Vitamin D anti-inflammatory One of the easiest and most powerful ways to prevent inflammation-related disease, vitamin D, which is naturally produced in the body as a result of exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation, is crucial for quelling chronic inflammation. Studies have found that found vitamin D supplementation can help cure chronic inflammation. The impact of this hormone-like vitamin on mood disorders is complex. There are receptors for vitamin D throughout the brain, and data indicates that lower vitamin D signaling leads to increased anxious behavior. There is a considerable association between low vitamin D levels and depression. 48.49.
Water anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Drinking plenty of water is one of the most effective natural remedies for inflammation. Water reduces inflammation and promotes cartilage health. To reduce internal inflammation, drink water to carry away waste products. The body needs water to carry away waste products. Clean water instead of coffee or soda gives the body clean water in the bucket to do its cleaning with. Drink lots of water at regular intervals during the day. Your body releases histamine in order to stop water loss. If you give your body adequate amounts of water, less histamine will be released. This is very important. Many people who suffer from histamine problems are not drinking enough water. 20.21.22.23.
Additional Support Group
NAME BENEFITS DETAILS
Bromelain(with Quercitin) anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Bromelain is an enzyme from pineapples that is an effective natural anti-inflammatory compound. It improves the absorption of quercitin and other bioflavonoids and therefore, natural antihistamine products often contain bromelain as well. The flavonoids found in Quercetin work as both an antioxidant and an anti-inflammatory. Quercitin also helps boost the benefits of Vitamin C and visa versa and therefore are often taken together. NOW Brands has a combination of the enzyme Bromelain with the bioflavonoid Quercitin (there may be other companies that offer this combination).1.2.
Lecithin anti-inflammatory Lecithin is a fat-like substance called a phospholipid. These fatty acids may also help maintain skin and hair health and typically have anti-inflammatory properties. Approximately 30% of your brain is composed of lecithin. It is also found in your spine and nerves as well as all the muscles in your body. Of the insulating and protective sheaths that surround your brain, spine and thousands of miles of nerves, lecithin accounts for two-thirds of their composition. your heart (the hardest muscle to fatigue) has the highest lecithin content. It is needed by every cell in the body and is a key building block of cell membranes. Without it, they would HARDEN. Lecithin protects cells from oxidation. The surface tension of the cell maintained by lecithin is also responsible for transmitting nerve impulses and messages through or from the cell. Lecithin has been touted for years as a wonder food capable of combating atherosclerosis, multiple sclerosis, anxiety, tremors and brain aging. It displays potential as a remedy for various psychological and neurological diseases such as Tourette’s syndrome, Alzheimer’s disease and bipolar disorder (also known as manic depression). This claim is based on the significant role that lecithin plays in NERVE CELL SIGNALING as well as in synthesizing important neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine, without which many of our cognitive functions could be impaired. Lecithin contains essential fatty acids that the human body needs but can’t produce for itself. Lecithin is safe except for people who are highly ALLERGIC to SOY.30.31.32.33.34.35.36.
Potassium anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Potassium acts as an electrolyte (a substance that maintains your body’s fluid levels) taking on a positive or negative charge that helps regulate blood pressure, muscle contraction and keep your bodily processes working right. In order to keep your bodily systems working together, your body needs to maintain electrolytes like potassium, sodium and chloride in a careful balance. Aldosterone is a pro-inflammatory hormone. It tends to increase inflammation in the body. Cortisol and cortisone, associated more with potassium levels, are anti-inflammatory hormones because they diminish inflammation. The pro and anti-inflammatory hormones must be in a good balance with each other for optimum health. There is a chemical relationship between potassium and sodium. If your sodium intake is high, your potassium will be low. Given the average salt intake in most American diets, it’s difficult to keep that balance with food sources alone, which is why it’s important to take a daily multi-vitamin and mineral supplement. 24.25.26.
Skullcap anti-inflammatory
natural antihistaminelowers glutamate level Skullcap is a Native North American perennial herb that gets its name from its blue flowers, which have two “lips” and are reminiscent of the skullcaps worn in medieval times. Skullcap is a POWERFUL medicinal herb that it is used in alternative medicine as an anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, nervine and sedative. Some valuable constituents found in the plant are scutellarin, catalpol and tannins. It is the herbal remedy of choice for all nervous disorders. It quiets nervous tension and eases muscle tension and spasms. Skullcap also induces sleep without strongly sedating or stupefying. It is also considered valuable in the treatment of nervous headaches, neuralgia and muscle cramps. It is innately high in mineral nutrients required for a healthy, balanced nervous system. Its ability to heal physical irregularities like convulsions, jerking muscles, epilepsy, wobbliness as well as heart trembles has been tested over the ages. Many experts have advocated the use of skullcap instead of applying the normal allopathic tranquillizers and medicines to cure depression. Placebo-controlled research found that skullcap reduced general anxiety levels in healthy volunteers. Additionally, a meta-analysis of skullcap determined that the flavonoids baicalin, baicalein, and aglycone, along with the amino acids GABA and glutamine found in skullcap play a role in its anxiolytic activity. Skullcap also has antihistamine properties.60.61.62.63.64.65.66.
Vitamin B12 anti-inflammatory The University of Maryland Medical Center lists vitamins B6, B9 and B12 among its list of anti-inflammatory vitamins and minerals. Vitamin B12 is important for maintaining a healthy nervous system and DNA production. It creates the protective sheath that coats your nerve cells. It’s sort of like INSULATION on electric wires. If the sheath is damaged because you don’t have enough vitamin B12 cobalamin, you start getting the equivalent of STATIC on the line. Really bad static can interfere with your mental function. Observational studies have found as many as 30% of patients hospitalized for depression to be deficient in vitamin B12. A recent cross-sectional study of 700 community-living physically disabled women over the age of 65 found that vitamin B12 deficient individuals were TWICE as likely to be severely depressed as non-deficient individuals. this particular vitamin is poorly absorbed by the stomach and the intestine. While it will still do SOME good, swallowing vitamin B12 in pill form is NOT optimal. On the other hand, when a SUBLINGUAL B12 is placed Under the tongue and allowed to dissolve, the B12 enters the blood stream directly through the blood vessels on the lining under the tongue. This is a MUCH more EFFECTIVE way to raise B12 levels in the body.27.28.29.
Pick and Choose – Other Helpful Supplements
NAME BENEFITS DETAILS
Astaxanthin anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Astaxanthin is now thought to be the most powerful antioxidant found in nature. It’s a very potent natural anti-inflammatory. This pigment is the most commonly occurring red carotenoid in marine and aquatic animals and is what gives salmon their characteristic pink color. Astaxanthin is leaps and bounds more powerful than beta-carotene, alpha-tocopherol, lycopene and lutein, other members of its chemical family. It exhibits VERY STRONG free radical scavenging activity and helps protect your cells, organs and body tissues from oxidative damage and inflammation. Astaxanthin crosses the blood-brain barrier AND the blood-retinal barrier (beta carotene and lycopene do not), which brings antioxidant and anti-inflammatory protection to your eyes, brain and central nervous system and reducing your risk for cataracts, macular degeneration, blindness, dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. According to a study published in the “Journal of Pharmacological Sciences” in 2004, astaxanthin can help normalize histamine levels, which is believed to help treat asthma. 71.72.
Butterbur anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Butterbur (petasites hybridus) is an herbaceous plant found in Europe and parts of North Africa and Asia. For many years, butterbur was used to treat migraines. Recent research (in 2005) by Swiss and German scientists compared the butterbur extract versus other non-natural antihistamines. The conclusion from the study was that butterbur was as effective as an antihistamine as the other products, but with fewer side effects such as drowsiness. The active ingredients in butterbur inhibit leukotriene synthesis, consistent with butterbur’s anti-spasm and anti-inflammatory properties.Extracts from the butterbur plant need to be processed in order to eliminate some of the existing toxic components. This is the main concern about the use of butterbur, although proper processing of the extract would eliminate this problem. Many would like to see more safety information and research being produced before recommending it for long-term use. Butterbur extracts are not recommended for individuals under 12 years of age, people with kidney or liver problems, or pregnant or lactating women. Consultation with a physician is highly recommended before considering the use of this product. One of the leading researchers on the benefits of butterbur, Dr. Schapowal has conducted numerous studies of this herb. His findings enthusiastically endorse butterbur as an effective treatment and a replacement for pharmaceuticals in the management of seasonal allergies. 105.106.
Cayenne anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Cayenne is a unique herb in that makes everything else it is put with, work so much better. It is at the top of the list of the ten most important herbs to have in the home, because it will make the other nine work better. Cayenne’s benefits can be attributed to the antioxidants, flavonoids and carotenoids it contains, all of which have anti-inflammatory effects and enhance circulation. It also depletes nerve endings. The best remedy we can use to naturally alleviate inflammation is to improve circulation to the affected area as best as we can. Circulation is essential to healing any part of the body of any condition. Without circulation, healing will not take place. Cayenne is a powerful herb in that it makes for better circulation. When taken internally, it boosts and strengthens the overall circulatory system. For any injury or inflammation, cayenne is a herb that will greatly boost healing. Circulation is so important that it warrants another mention. Whatever the cause of inflammation, be it trauma, injury or infection, circulation is CRUCIAL for healing. When severe inflammation is involved, it is ABSOLUTELY essential. Cayenne contains quercetin that is a natural antihistamine. 50.51.52.53.54.
Chamomile anti-inflammatory
natural antihistaminelowers glutamate level Chamomile (Matricaria chamomilla) is rich in anti-histamine properties. The flowers can be crushed and used as a poultice for inflammatory swelling. Make a tea and drink 2-3 times a day. Chamomile can cause histaminic allergic reactions in some very sensitive people. If this occurs, simply discontinue. Recent and on-going research has identified chamomile’s specific anti-inflammatory, anti-bacterial, anti-allergenic and sedative properties, validating its long-held reputation. Traditionally, chamomile preparations such as tea and essential oil aromatherapy have been used to treat insomnia and to induce sedation (calming effects). Chamomile is widely regarded as a mild tranquillizer and sleep-inducer. Studies in preclinical models have shown anticonvulsant and CNS depressant effects respectively. Compounds present in extracts of chamomile can also bind BDZ and GABA receptors in the brain and might be responsible for some sedative effect; however, many of these compounds are as yet unidentified. 110.111.112.
Devil’s Claw anti-inflammatory The curiously named devil’s claw is so called because of the shape of its large fruit, which resembles a claw-like hand. Devil’s claw has been used for thousands of years in Africa for fever, rheumatoid arthritis, skin conditions and conditions involving the gallbladder, pancreas, stomach and kidneys. It has been a popular anti-inflammatory and arthritis treatment since it was first discovered in South Africa by European colonists in the 18th century. The active ingredients of Devil’s Claw are harpagoside, harpagide and procumbine. In laboratory and human studies, harpagoside has been shown to reduce inflammation. Recently published double blind studies have shown that Devil’s Claw can relieve pain from arthritis in as little as ten days of use. Since studies have shown no side effects, even at very high doses, Devil’s claw can be a safe alternative for over-the-counter pain medications. 67.68.69.70.
Ginger anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Most ayurvedic formulations have ginger as an ingredient because it’s believed to enhance the healing properties of other herbs. Many components of ginger are potent inhibitors of inflammatory substances. These anti-inflammatory properties of ginger have been known and valued for centuries. Ginger root extract has also been shown to improve circulation by relaxing muscles around blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. Ginger’s root contains large amounts of zingiberene, which gives the spice its anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. It helps indirectly to relieve chronic pain by reducing inflammation and, particularly when taken in standardized extract form, by lowering the body’s level of natural pain-causing compounds called prostaglandins. Ginger’s healing power works on multiple levels. It counters a host of different allergy symptoms. Ginger is also a natural antihistamine that has tested as well as commercial antihistamines. 43.44.45.46.47.
Green Tea anti-inflammatory
natural antihistaminelowers glutamate level The flavonoids in green tea are potent natural anti-inflammatory compounds that have been shown in numerous studies to reduce the risk of heart disease and cancer. Green tea also falls into the group of natural antihistamines. Green tea contains quercitin and catechins, which possess antihistamine properties. Two to three cups of green tea a day is required in order to obtain the antihistamine benefits. Green tea extract supplements are also available. Green tea can help your GABA production because it contains L-theanine which when taken moderately can produce a calming effect to avoid drowsiness. 116.117.118.
Kava Kava anti-inflammatory
lowers glutamate level It is suggested that this herb increases the number of attachment sites for GABA in the brain. By creating more attachment sites, it is believed the effects of GABA might be more profound, which results in a mild sedated state. Kava is a gentle sedative/relaxant that does not dull the senses but tends to enhance sensory perception, focus the mind, and elevate the mood. Kava generally improves an openness to socialization, which can be helpful for those who are feeling flat and depressed. Kava can also be of great benefit for those with fibromyalgia, as it is analgesic and relaxing to the musculoskeletal system. It also helps to induce a deeper, more restful sleep (use 30 minutes before bedtime for this action). The herb also blunts pain, discourages muscle spasms, settles seething nerves and cools inflammation. Two specific kavalactones, dihydrokawain and dihydromethysticin, together have the analgesic power of a 200-milligram aspirin tablet. Kava Kava can be especially beneficial when mixed with magnesium. 96.97.98.
Licorice Root anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Licorice’s main attribute is as an anti-inflammatory and as such is used to combat arthritis pain. Licorice is also an antioxidant. In China, herbalists use licorice to reduce or relieve pain resulting from inflammation. Licorice stimulates the pituitary and adrenal glands to increase natural production of adrenal hormones such as cortisone that reduce the inflammation and consequent pain caused by conditions such as arthritis. Next to ginseng, licorice is the most popular herb used in Chinese formulas. Licorice is included in most Chinese herb combinations to balance the other herbs and to promote vitality. In almost every bit of herbal literature that deals with allergies and colds, licorice root is touted as an almost-miracle cure. It works so well because it encourages the adrenal glands to produce hormones that fight illness and allergies, as well as reduces inflammation.55.56.57.58.59.
Pycnogenol anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine
lowers glutamate level Pycnogenol falls into the bioflavonoid group of natural antihistamines. Like quercitin, this bioflavonoid will not make you drowsy and is very effective at preventing the release of histamine from mast cells. Some laboratory studies have shown that this natural antihistamine can block up to 70 per cent of histamine released when an individual is exposed to an allergen. Pycnogenol is obtained from the extract of the bark of the French maritime pine, which grows in Les Landes in southwest France. Many studies have been performed on pycnogenol and have shown that it is very safe. In addition to being one of the very effective natural antihistamines, it also is a powerful antioxidant and helps with a variety of conditions from diabetes to cholesterol control, menstrual disorders, asthma, other skin care problems etc. In addition, Pycnogenol can actually decrease pain and reduce inflammatory conditions by shutting down the production of specific enzymes involved with inflammation. Pycnogenol turns to the root of the problem, completely stopping the production of COX-2 in inflammation. This makes Pycnogenol a unique tool for modulating inflammatory processes. Pycnogenol can also be used to help to control glutamate by protecting the glutamate receptors, as well as to help repair nerves. Pycnogenol is also reported to help strengthen veins. 102.103.104.
Reishi anti-inflammatory
natural antihistaminelowers glutamate level Reishi mushroom has been used historically as an immune tonic in Traditional Chinese Medicine. Scientific researchers in the western world are now beginning to understand the active constituents that are responsible for the mushroom’s immune supporting actions. Reishi contains the bioflavonoid triterpene which inhibits histamine release. It also contains oleic acid and cyclooctasulphur compound which have antihistamine actions. In addition to these anti-allergic actions, reishi contains antioxidant and anti-inflammatory phytonutrients which may be helpful in reducing hay fever symptoms. Reishi’s powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties make these mushrooms attractive candidates for preventing neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. Both of these diseases are driven by oxidative stress and inflammation. In a human study, Reishi mushrooms were given to healthy volunteers as a single 1,100 mg dose. Plasma antioxidant capacity rose rapidly to a peak at 90 minutes, while urine antioxidant capacity (a measure of what has been in the body) rose by 29% after 3 hours. Neither study showed any evidence of toxicity or side effects. Reishi mushrooms have a well-known ability to beneficially modulate the immune system. The mushrooms’ ability to boost immunity is the source of their advanced cancer and infection fighting properties. Recent experiments revealed that reishi has GABA receptor activity, which causes significantly decreased sleep latency (falling asleep earlier), increased sleeping time, and increased non-REM sleep time with more delta activity during non-REM sleep, indicating deeper sleep. 113.114.115.
St. John’s Wort anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine It is a bittersweet herb that has cooling and astringent properties, mostly used to calm the nerves, reduce inflammation and promote healing. It is used in homeopathy for pain relief and to combat inflammation caused by nerve damage. It is used locally for its antiseptic and analgesic effect on burns, bruises, sores and deep wounds with nerve damage. Its anti-inflammatory agents decrease inflammation by inhibiting the immune cells that stimulate the hallmark redness and swelling. It is a wonderful remedy for the nervous system, relaxing tension and anxiety and lifting the spirits. Its antiviral, anti-inflammatory and healing powers work just as well within the body as externally. St. John’s Wort will help to repair collapsed veins and will heal the nerves. It is best used in conjunction with a circulation boosting herb like cayenne. The effectiveness of St. John’s Wort is backed by pharmacological studies and has been the subject of a number of double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical studies. It is a natural, safer alternative to some of the harsher treatments. St john’s wort also has a beneficial effect on increasing GABA levels within your brain. St. Johns Wort activates gamma-aminobutyric (GABA) receptors in the brain, inhibiting reuptake. Increased GABA activity slows down brain processes, which can lead to feelings of relaxation. This may help with depressive symptoms of restlessness, and the ability to fall asleep. 73.74.75.76.77.78.79.80.
Stinging Nettle anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Stinging Nettle (Urtica Dioica) has been used for its herbal quality for centuries. Other than being used for allergies, nettle is commonly used for inflammation and water retention. The leaves contain biologically active compounds that reduce inflammation. They can also be used as a diuretic. The leaves have also been used to treat conditions such as arthritis, high blood pressure, and Alzheimer’s disease. The roots contain unique and helpful qualities in similar and different ways from the leaves. Stinging nettle’s leaf contains a quality that blocks histamine receptors. This quality means that the leaf can function just as a common allergy treatment such as Allegra or Claritin as a histamine blocker but has none of the side effects that those drugs carry. Nettle loses its antiallergy power if not harvested and processed correctly. Look for a high-quality powdered product that has been freeze-dried or specially processed to retain the active ingredients. This special processing costs more, so don’t be seduced by cheap imitations. 107.107.109.
Systemic Enzymes anti-inflammatory The word “systemic” means body wide. Systemic enzymes are those that operate not just for digestion but throughout your body in every system and organ. They are the first line of defense against inflammation. When cellular cytokine production is balanced, the immune system works extremely well. But when cytokines are overabundant, the body’s inflammation response is widespread and chronic, scarring cellular repair processes within the body’s arteries and organs such as the kidneys and liver, which lead to cirrhosis, fibrosis and sclerosis, and various age-related health maladies. Why is it so important to remove excess cytokines from the body? Too many cytokines of all kinds deliver confusing and false information. Too many jeopardize the inflammatory process and it cannot find an end. Progression will continue and the disease will become chronic. The common denominator of all chronic inflammatory processes is an extremely elevated concentration of the immune system’s cytokines in the patient’s blood.They are perfectly safe and free of dangerous side effects. This systemic use of enzymes is just now taking off in the United States. Enzymes eat scar tissue and fibrosis. Fibrosis is scar tissue and most doctors learn in anatomy that it is fibrosis that eventually kills us all. The blood is not only the river of life, it is also the river through which the cells and organs dispose of their garbage and dead material. Enzymes improve circulation by eating the excess fibrin that causes blood to sometimes get as thick as catsup or yogurt, creating the perfect environment for the formation of clots. It is crucial that, in order for enzymes to be used systemically, they must be ingested on an empty stomach. Otherwise, your body will use them for digesting your food, instead of being absorbed into the blood and doing their work there. 90.91.92.
Taurine anti-inflammatory
natural antihistamine Taurine is an amino acid that calms the nervous system by facilitating the production of the neurotransmitter GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid). By helping to raise GABA levels, taurine will allow your body to manage anxiety so that your thoughts don’t go spiraling out of control and you don’t get the associated cortisol and adrenaline spikes that go with anxiety and stress. Taurine has been shown to prevent the neuronal damage that can occur when there is an exposure to increased levels of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. More and more research is currently linking this important amino acid with significant antioxidant and anti inflammatory activity. Taurine appears to act at the site of inflammation, where it converts into taurine chloramine (or TauCl). Its anti-inflammatory and even anti-microbial qualities appear to be correlated with its antioxidant properties. Antioxidants help fight free radicals that are responsible for a variety of chronic conditions including arthritis, heart diseases and cancer, which all have an underlying inflammatory reaction. 93.94.95.
Vitamin A anti-inflammatory Vitamin A is an antioxidant. That means it protects against harmful substances in your body called free radicals, which can damage DNA and lead to cancer and other diseases. Vitamin A also has anti-inflammatory effects. A lack of enough vitamin A has been linked to inflammation in the intestines, lungs and skin. For some people, taking vitamin A supplements could reduce the inflammation that contributes to conditions like inflammatory bowel disease, acne and lung disease. 119.120.
Vitamin B-Complex anti-inflammatory
lowers glutamate level Vitamin B complex is a group of anti-inflammatory vitamins sharing the B status commonly known as the ‘Happy Vitamins’. Of these Vitamins, B1, B6 and B12 have notable anti-inflammatory properties. They have been used since old times for the cure and prevention of many diseases including arthritis, heart disorders and back ache. Foods rich in B-complex vitamins, particularly inositol, prompt GABA production. In fact, B-vitamins are necessary for the functioning of nearly all brain processes and chemicals. B vitamins can help balance mood, calm the nervous system and alleviate stress. 99.100.101.
Vitamin E anti-inflammatory
lowers glutamate level Vitamin E is an antioxidant with anti-inflammatory properties. Common food sources include nuts, seeds, and green leafy vegetables. The alpha-tocopherol type may help prevent heart disease by slowing the release of inflammatory substances that damage the heart. Vitamin E is a powerful antioxidant and natural antihistamine that has been shown to strengthen your immune system and its response to attack. Vitamin E is also a natural blood thinner. Therefore, if you are taking an anticoagulant, such as warfarin, check with your doctor before using vitamin E. 119.120.
Yoga anti-inflammatory
lowers glutamate level According to researchers, yoga has shown promise in improving symptoms associated with depression, anxiety and epilepsy. Findings clearly demonstrate that in experienced yoga practitioners, brain GABA levels increase after a session of yoga. Researchers suggest that the practice of yoga be explored as a possible treatment for depression and anxiety, disorders associated with low GABA levels. Regularly practicing yoga exercises may lower a number of compounds in the blood and reduce the level of inflammation that normally rises because of both normal aging and stress, a new study has shown. In another study yoga improved exercise tolerance and positively affected levels of inflammatory markers. Comparisons of symptoms from the beginning to the end of an 8-week study showed considerable improvement in RLS-related symptom severity with all but 1 participant rating her symptoms in the minimal to mild range. Improvements in sleep and mood, and reductions in perceived stress were also noted. 122.123.124.125.
Zinc anti-inflammatory
lowers glutamate level As an essential trace mineral, zinc is second to iron as the most plentiful trace element in the body. It is needed for a number of enzymatic functions in the body, as well as for immune function, prostate health, antioxidant production and more. From helping to create new skin cells to boosting the immune system, this mineral works overtime to produce the cells you need to keep healthy. Over 200 enzymes have been identified as zinc dependant. Zinc is essential for the growth of healthy cells which in turn can help the immune system stay strong. Zinc’s quick cell replication skills come in handy when you have cuts or wounds. It’s vital for the production of collagen, the connective tissue that helps wounds heal. Zinc plays an important role in wound healing. It is involved in healing and repair of all tissues. The healing is accelerated and the resistance to infection is enhanced. Tests have shown that the rate of healing TRIPLED after using zinc. The anti-inflammatory effect of zinc is of utmost importance. Involving things such as T Cell cytokine expression, NF kappaB signaling PPAR, COX-2 expression, and down regulation iNOS, among others. Zinc ions are concentrated in the central nervous system and regulate GABA(A) receptors, which are pivotal mediators of inhibitory synaptic neurotransmission. 81.82.83.84.85.86.87.88.89.
Join 25,000 people in helping redefine health with health concierge and precision medicine.
https://clubalthea.com/2016/10/14/your-complete-dna-sequence-will-help-shape-the-future-of-medicine/
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Print
Email
Pocket
Pinterest
Tumblr
Reddit
Like this:
Like Loading...
Categories
Alzheimer's Disease
cancer
Menu
parkinson's disease
Tags
calcium
chiropractor
herbalist
herbs
Inflammatory
lack of sleep
Magnesium
nutritionist
osteopathic doctor
restless leg syndrome
RLS
Post navigation
Genetic tests now available for all USA doctors Previous
Clean up our lymps to reduce restless leg syndrome Next
2 Comments
connie dello buono says:
October 20, 2016 at 4:41 pm
Reblogged this on Full of Life Community.
Loading...
Reply
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Search for:
Categories
affordable homes
AIDs
Alzheimer's Disease
animals
annuities
Anti-aging
anti-aging
anti-arthritis
anti-stress diet
art
asset allocation
asset protection
assets
ASTHMA
Autism
bay area caregiver
Bay Area News and Events
Bayarea Caregivers
Beauty and Skin care
biomimicry
brain
business planning
cancer
career
caregivers
cash flow protection
childbirth
children
climate
clinical trials
coconut oil
college plans
community resources
dementia
depression
design
diabetes
doctors
DRUGS
Education
environment protection
equality
estate
estate planning
events
exercise
eyes
faith
father's day
Fertility
fetal
Finance
financial planning
Financial Planning 101
financial threats
Food
genes
graduates
Happiness
healing
Health and Innovation
health data
health insurance
Health IT
Health news
healthcare
healthy recipe
Heart Health
Home care
hospice
housing
immune system
Improvement Programs Medical Device
income taxes
Infinity QS SPC implementation
intelligence
internet
invention
IRA
jobs
joy
lab test
life coach
local events search
long term care
longevity
love
lung cancer
Lungs
massage oil and balm
Medicare
Medicare planning
men's health
Menu
metabolism
Microbes
migraine
mobile health care application
modular homes
money
monthly budget
mother
mother care
mother's day
muscles
nature
nervous system
neurons
newborn
news
nursing home
nutrients
nutrition
obesity
oxygen
pain
Pain meds
parkinson's disease
peace
pension
pets
pharmacogenetic test
Politics
prayer
precision medicine
pregnancy
pregnancy and baby care
psychology
Public Health
Quality Mgt Systems
real estate
recipe
reduce taxes
retirement income
retirement savings
risks
Satirists
Satirists and comedians
schizophrenia
self-employed
senior care
senior home health care
Senior living communities
Seniors
sleep
solar
soul
soulmate
Sports
sports medicine
stem cells
stress
success
survey
tax free savings 8-13%
taxes
telemedicine
Thanksgiving
thyroid
Tony Robbins
travel
turmeric
video
virus
water purifier
wealth
weight loss
women
work
Top Posts & Pages
Eggplant and apple cider vinegar for skin cancer
Signs of the preactive/ active phase of dying and medications for terminally ill
Apple cider vinegar kills parasites, cleansing to the liver and prevents stroke
Holistic bay area senior care , caregiver, services, health data and mission
Non pasteurized beers have more health benefits
16 Tips On How To Treat HPV Naturally And Effectively At Home
Massage oil of fresh ginger and coconut oil relieves joint pain
DMSO, hydrogen peroxide and Vit C fight cancer cells
Philippines Coconut Wine -Tuba
What's a good analogy to explain the immune system?
No upcoming events
Tags
aging alcohol Alzheimer's Alzheimer's Disease anti-aging anti cancer bacteria bay area brain california cancer Caregiver caregivers dementia depression detox diabetes disease doctors drugs exercise gut happiness health HEART Home care immune system Inflammation liver love Pain Parkinson's Disease retirement savings seniors sleep stress stroke sugar taxes tax free toxins USA wealth women
Follow Us
Pages
About
Actionable health data for longevity and cancer cure, join us
Best ways to predict your health
Brain
Cart
Checkout
Curated Health Info
Health Care Watch Board
Health Knowledge to reduce your health pains
Holistic bay area senior care , caregiver, services, health data and mission
My account
Over 8,000 pounds of coal is what it takes to power a home in America in a year
Own a piece of Fitness Tracker market for home health monitoring and more
Personalized Diet ebook
Reaching out to our health village
Shop
Your own health food store with free Bahamas trip – Valentine sales
Caregivers 408-854-1883
943 Lakehaven Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94089
408-854-1883
motherhealth@gmail.com
8am to 8pm Mon to Sunday
Recent Posts
$200 complete blood count test from Life Extension and Lab Corp
2 soft boiled eggs is 0 points , my weight watcher journey
Why do estate planning
Health care crisis and calorie restriction targets tumor cells
Top healing ways 3-29-2019
My 83-yr old mother’s fight against liver cancer
Sen Adam Schiff on not allowing corruption
Home health options for seniors at home
Low carb diet to kill tumor cells, and more healthy protein and good fats
Whole foods, clean environment, less toxins can strengthen p53 gene – anti-cancer
Liver supplements for my mom from Life Extension
elder financial exploitation
Ways to reduce cost of home care for seniors
Motherhealth caregivers well loved by bay area families needing home care
20% of Motherhealth caregiving income funds college students
The Trump Quote That Stood Out To McCabe
Toxic plants for the liver
Guava fruit, leaves and bark, as super fruit for the liver and rich in Vit C and E
Top health tips on Feb 14, 2019
Essential oils, smell, brain, healing
Social
Translate
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 4,884 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Search for:
Top Posts & Pages
Eggplant and apple cider vinegar for skin cancer
Signs of the preactive/ active phase of dying and medications for terminally ill
Apple cider vinegar kills parasites, cleansing to the liver and prevents stroke
Holistic bay area senior care , caregiver, services, health data and mission
Non pasteurized beers have more health benefits
16 Tips On How To Treat HPV Naturally And Effectively At Home
Massage oil of fresh ginger and coconut oil relieves joint pain
DMSO, hydrogen peroxide and Vit C fight cancer cells
Philippines Coconut Wine -Tuba
What's a good analogy to explain the immune system?
Social
View clubalthea’s profile on Facebook
View momdancer40’s profile on Twitter
View clubalthea’s profile on LinkedIn
Twitter Updates
$200 complete blood count test from Life Extension and Lab Corp clubalthea.com/2019/04/18/200… 6 days ago
$200 complete blood count test from Life Extension and Lab Corp clubalthea.com/2019/04/18/200… 6 days ago
2 soft boiled eggs is 0 points , my weight watcher journey clubalthea.com/2019/04/18/2-s… 6 days ago
2 soft boiled eggs is 0 points , my weight watcher journey clubalthea.com/2019/04/18/2-s… https://t.co/5kXiDbmPjG 6 days ago
Why do estate planning clubalthea.com/2019/04/17/why… 1 week ago
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 November 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 April 2011
Categories
Categories Select Category affordable homes AIDs Alzheimer’s Disease animals annuities Anti-aging anti-aging anti-arthritis anti-stress diet art asset allocation asset protection assets ASTHMA Autism bay area caregiver Bay Area News and Events Bayarea Caregivers Beauty and Skin care biomimicry brain business planning cancer career caregivers cash flow protection childbirth children climate clinical trials coconut oil college plans community resources dementia depression design diabetes doctors DRUGS Education environment protection equality estate estate planning events exercise eyes faith father’s day Fertility fetal Finance financial planning Financial Planning 101 financial threats Food genes graduates Happiness healing Health and Innovation health data health insurance Health IT Health news healthcare healthy recipe Heart Health Home care hospice housing immune system Improvement Programs Medical Device income taxes Infinity QS SPC implementation intelligence internet invention IRA jobs joy lab test life coach local events search long term care longevity love lung cancer Lungs massage oil and balm Medicare Medicare planning men’s health Menu metabolism Microbes migraine mobile health care application modular homes money monthly budget mother mother care mother’s day muscles nature nervous system neurons newborn news nursing home nutrients nutrition obesity oxygen pain Pain meds parkinson’s disease peace pension pets pharmacogenetic test Politics prayer precision medicine pregnancy pregnancy and baby care psychology Public Health Quality Mgt Systems real estate recipe reduce taxes retirement income retirement savings risks Satirists Satirists and comedians schizophrenia self-employed senior care senior home health care Senior living communities Seniors sleep solar soul soulmate Sports sports medicine stem cells stress success survey tax free savings 8-13% taxes telemedicine Thanksgiving thyroid Tony Robbins travel turmeric video virus water purifier wealth weight loss women work
Recent Posts
$200 complete blood count test from Life Extension and Lab Corp
2 soft boiled eggs is 0 points , my weight watcher journey
Why do estate planning
Health care crisis and calorie restriction targets tumor cells
Top healing ways 3-29-2019
My 83-yr old mother’s fight against liver cancer
Sen Adam Schiff on not allowing corruption
Home health options for seniors at home
Low carb diet to kill tumor cells, and more healthy protein and good fats
Whole foods, clean environment, less toxins can strengthen p53 gene – anti-cancer
Liver supplements for my mom from Life Extension
elder financial exploitation
Ways to reduce cost of home care for seniors
Motherhealth caregivers well loved by bay area families needing home care
20% of Motherhealth caregiving income funds college students
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 4,884 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Motherhealth
1708 Hallmark Lane
San Jose CA 95124
1-408-8541-883
motherhealth@gmail.com
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 4,884 other subscribers
Email Address
Subscribe
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 November 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 April 2011
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Follow Us
Powered by WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: