Consumer Health Digest, September 19, 2013
Home
Search
Enhancing Freedom of Choice through Reliable Health Information
Consumer Health Digest #13-35
Your Weekly Update of News and Reviews
September 19, 2013
Consumer Health Digest is a free weekly e-mail newsletter edited by Stephen Barrett, M.D., with help from William M. London, Ed.D., M.P.H. It summarizes scientific reports; legislative developments; enforcement actions; news reports; Web site evaluations; recommended and nonrecommended books; and other information relevant to consumer protection and consumer decision-making.
Long-acting contraceptives found to be most effective. The Contraceptive CHOICE Project, a research and educational initiative at Washington University in St. Louis, has reported that long-acting reversible contraceptive (LARC) methods are more effective and better accepted by women who received counseling on contraceptive choices. The project was founded in 2007 to remove financial barriers, promote the most effective methods of birth control, and reduce unintended pregnancy in the St. Louis area. Its recent video, "Pathway to Choice," states the following:
The main barrier to choosing a LARC method was lack of information about them. Among 9,256 women who received counseling about all methods of birth control, 75% chose a LARC method (intrauterine device or implant).
Non-LARC methods rely on user compliance with instructions for optimal effectiveness. Women who chose LARC methods were much more likely after one year to continue using their chosen method and had higher satisfaction.
Women who chose LARC methods or the progestin shot had the lowest unintended pregnancy rates at one, two, and three years of follow-up.
Women who used the pill, patch, or ring were 20 times more likely to have an unintended pregnancy during the first year of follow-up.
Ready access to LARC methods could prevent more than one million unintended pregnancies and about 870,000 abortions per year.
Copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps flunk arthritis test. A well designed study has found that wearing a magnetic wrist strap or copper bracelet had no practical value for patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The study involved 70 patients who were randomly assigned in various sequences to wear a standard (1502 to 2365 gauss) magnetic wrist strap and three control devices: a demagnetised (<20 gauss) wrist strap, an attenuated (250 to 350 gauss) magnetic wrist strap, and a copper bracelet. No differences among the groups were found for pain, inflammation, disease activity, disability, or medication requirement patterns. [Richmond SJ and others. Copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps for rheumatoid arthritis: Analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects: A randomized double-blind placebo controlled crossover trial. PLOS ONE 8(9), 2013]
Health Canada orders warning label on nosodes. Health Canada, which licenses products, will require the product packaging for nosodes to feature the warning "This product is not intended to be an alternative to vaccination." Nosodes are oral homeopathic preparations made from bodily tissues and fluids (including feces, blood, pus, discharges, and saliva) taken from patients suffering from a disease (including measles, anthrax, tuberculosis). Once the starting material is obtained, it is sterilized and serially diluted, often to the point where no active ingredient remains. Nosodes are commonly referred to as "homeopathic vaccines." Many homeopaths and naturopaths offer them as an alternative to vaccination, but there is no evidence they can protect against disease. The agency's action came in response to the campaign by Bad Science Watch to persuade it to de-license homeopathic products. Although the warning reflects Health Canada's recognition that a problem exists, its failure to ban the products is consistent with the Canadian government's "do-almost-nothing" policy toward useless products.
Previous Issue || Next Issue
This page was posted on September 21, 2013.
2019 Archive | 2018 Archive | 2017 Archive | 2016 Archive | 2015 Archive | 2014 Archive | 2013 Archive |
2012 Archive | 2011 Archive | 2010 Archive | 2009 Archive | 2008 Archive | 2007 Archive
2006 Archive | 2005 Archive | 2004 Archive | 2003 Archive | 2002 Archive | 2001 Archive
Subscribe to CH Digest | NCAHF Home Page | Search All Our Affiliated Sites
Links to Recommended Companies
PharmacyChecker.com: Compare drug prices and save money at verified online pharmacies.
ConsumerLab.com: Evaluates the quality of dietary supplement and herbal products.
OnlyMyEmail: Award-winning anti-spam services.
10 Types: Website design, development, and hosting with superb technical support.