[VIDEO] The Benefits of Exercise for Depression - NewLifeOutlook
Awareness
Cause
Risks
News
Treatments
Lifestyle
Exercise
Nutrition
Coping
Treatments
Your Stories
Community
Voices
.
string(10) "depression"
Awareness
Cause
Risks
News
Treatments
Lifestyle
Exercise
Nutrition
Coping
Treatments
Your Stories
Community
Voices
.
newlifeoutlook
Depression
Videos
3:19
share
The Benefits of Exercise for Depression
Kristen Schou
Aug 25, 2017
Kristen discusses the five benefits you gain from exercising when you have depression.
Depression and Exercise
Exercise Is a Natural Antidepressant
When you exercise, it’s a natural antidepressant. Doctors say that five minutes after a moderate workout people get an elevated mood.
Exercise makes you feel good. Because when we exercise our body releases chemicals, like endorphins and serotonin, which helps boost our mood.
Becoming Active Can Clear Your Mind
Exercise helps us clear our mind. When you are exercising you are sending blood to your brain which is helping you think more clearly.
It also increases the size of your hippocampus which is responsible for memory.
That’s why, when you want to concentrate, it’s good to get up and get moving because that’s when you’re going to have your best ideas.
It helps you create a routine and structure. Sometimes when we are suffering from depression, isolation and lack of motivation are very common. When we set an exercise routine, we are making ourselves accountable to exercise.
It Is a Healthy Habit to Have
As we just talked about, exercise helps boost your mood, which makes you feel more confident with yourself.
When you’re at the gym, or when you’re taking your dog for a walk, or when you’re running, or when you’re at home doing yoga, put on some music.
Maybe listen to an audio book. Maybe put on your favorite TV show or podcast.
Make this something that you want to do. Sometimes, going to the gym is not the most fun thing on today’s to-do list, but we can make it fun, and we can make ourselves want to go.
Exercise Gets You Outside
A common symptom of depression is isolation like we just said. Exercise makes us get outside, get in the sunshine, and get around others.
Exercising is a very social thing.
Either you’re going to the gym or taking the dog for a walk in the park. You’re around people; you’re around others, and you’re not isolated inside.
Outside, in the sun, and you’re a part of the community. I would suggest exercising outside rather than inside because it’s proven that exercising outside is way better for you than exercising inside.
It Improves Your Self-Esteem
The last thing I want to talk about is exercise improves our self-esteem and body confidence. I don’t know about you, but when I’m done with my workout or yoga routine,
I feel just better about myself. I feel like I accomplished something, and I feel just very good about myself. Even if I did only 15 to 20 minutes on a treadmill, I did something, and I accomplished something today, and that makes me feel so good.
Let me know down below what is your favorite type of exercise. What do you do to stay fit and stay healthy? I would love to know down below, because what helps you could help somebody else.
show more
Advertisement
Related Content
6 Benefits of Yoga for Depression and How to Get Started
Developing a Sense of Self-Worth When You Have Depression
8 Tips for Improving Your Self Image
Click here to see comments
Recent Content
Things to Consider When Dating Someone With Depression
Dating someone with depression may not always be easy, but having a partner who is supportive and understanding can be a huge help in your healing.
Understanding the Link Between Stress and Depression
Stress and depression are linked in a number of ways, and learning how to manage your stress can help you to better control your depression. Find out why.
What Are the Signs of High-Functioning Depression?
High-functioning depression is a difficult type of depression to detect. On the outside, the person appears fine, but internally they may be struggling.
Depression Brain Fog and How to Cope
Poor concentration is a common symptom of depression, but depression brain fog is so much more than that. Learn how to prevent and manage it here.
Advertisement
Advertisement
more videos:
Depression in the Elderly
by: Elodie Edjang
Misconceptions of Depression and PMDD
by: Kristen Schou
How Better Sleep Can Help Your Depression
by: Elodie Edjang
How to Cope With a Lack of Motivation When You Have Depression
by: Kristen Schou
see also:
Depression Treatment
Depression Sleep Medication
Antidepressant Side Effects
Clinics For Depression
don't miss a thing:
Subscribe to our Newsletter
We are building our Depression community.
Sign up to receive updates.
Subscribe with Facebook
OR
Subscribe
Contributors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
© 2019 NewLifeOutlook™ All rights reserved.