Palmer's Cocoa Butter Formula Massage Cream - [Updated 2019]
Skip to content
Main Menu
Home
Links
Menu Toggle
Top Product Comparison
Posts By Category
FAQ
Contact Us
Top Product Comparison
Top Product Comparison
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Massage Cream for Stretch Marks Review
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula
Palmer’s cocoa butter formula massage cream for stretch marks helps improve the appearance of stretch marks with a special combination of cocoa butter, vitamin E, collagen and elastin.
Compare Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula With The Top Products
Overall
Quality
Effectiveness
Reputation
Support
Available Country
Revitol
VISIT WEBSITE
Superior
Excellent
Outstanding
Excellent
USA + All Countries
Dermology
VISIT WEBSITE
Very Good
Excellent
Outstanding
Excellent
USA + All Countries
Palmer's
VISIT WEBSITE
Good
Average
Excellent
Very Good
USA + Some Others
Any human being can suffer the issues related to stretch marks. After all, stretch marks are caused by many instances in human´s life such as pregnancy, adding a lot of weight in a short period of time, the puberty period and rapid growth at that age can cause stretch marks as well.
The system of body building exercises is also the guilty one when it comes to the already mentioned problem. Though, having stretch marks is only physical appearance related problem, having no dangerous effect on human´s health at all.
First up is Palmers cocoa butter. This is a concentrated cream or lotion that contains collagen and vitamin E. It helps to prevent stretch marks and remove them. It is recommended to smooth, soften and relieve dry skin.
The only complaint about this product seemed to be that the lid clogged but this was easy remedied by running under the hot water. This is a small price to pay if this skin treatment is useful for stretch marks and their prevention.
Bio-Oil is purposely-prepared specialist skin care oil for stretch mark and scar removal. It improves the skins elasticity and therefore helps to prevent stretch marks forming as your skin is stretching throughout your pregnancy.
This cream is applied twice a day and needs to be massaged in to the stretch marks on a daily basis for at least three months. There are many good reviews written about Bio-Oil.
Vitamin E cream can be used to soften the skin and help to prevent stretch marks but it was the general opinion that if you want to get rid of stretch marks it is far better to use Vitamin E oil as a natural skin care, as this is more concentrated.
One girl discussed how she bought the most potent capsules she could and pricked one with a pin and massaged directly on the area of the stretch marks. Taking a supplement of Vitamin E daily is also beneficial to your skin.
Coconut oil is an organic skin care product that is totally pure and natural and has no added ingredients. It can be used whatever your skin type is. Another girl talked of how she had used this all the way through her last pregnancy with twins and had no stretch marks. I hope the ladies won’t be offended by me calling them girls, but when you get to my age, they’re all girls.
Other over the counter stretch mark creams, lotions or oils include shea butter, flax seed oil, olive oil, and the two favourites that I grow the plants that they derive from in my garden and greenhouse, Helichrysum oil and aloe Vera gel. Vast majority of these ingredients and substances are contained in Palmers stretch mark cream are natural as well.
How Do Stretch Marks Appear?
Namely, the problem behind the appearance of stretch marks is that dermis, which is the middle skin layer with the role of helping human skin retain its shape, is affected by stretching. Dermal and epidermal layers of skin start tearing apart and stretch marks appear.
Although no matter if stretch marks are caused by bad eating habits or due to person´s hormonal problems, there are truly successful ways of curing stretch marks area on one´s body and getting read of them.
Some of those ways are highly effective, some less efficient, and if a human being really wants to get rid of this unnecessary nuisance in her/his life, she/he needs to do a real and thorough research on finding those efficient ways.
How Does Palmers Stretch Scream Work?
Palmers are the company that has been truly dedicated to health and beauty for more than forty years now. They have and still are diligently working on inventing not only highly effective health and beauty products, but the products that are also unthreatening to human´s health in any way possible.
What they are famous for, for years now, is their cocoa butter formula used in all of their products. And this very formula was noticed to be something that helped many Palmers customers deal with their stretch marks.
Namely, to be on a safe side at this very moment, Palmers stretch mark cream, as a product especially dedicated to fighting off stretch marks, is not in the line of highly effective stretch mark removal products, but the customers who used the product and gave their testimonials after all said that the product helped their skin become taut again in the areas where the cream had been applied and the stretch marks they had become somewhat narrow and less visible.
There are few other products this company invented, beside Palmers stretch mark cream, that are also concentrated on helping with striae problems, such as:
Cocoa Butter Formula Skin Therapy Oil, Cocoa Butter Formula Massage Oil, or their pregnancy line of products such as Cocoa Butter Formula Tummy Butter, Skin Therapy Oil, Bust Cream and Body Cream for stretch marks.
They are all based on and rich in non toxic cocoa butter that helps skin revitalization, vitamin E, then Bio C-Elaste which is a good mixture of collagen and elastin our skin needs as building components and all of the products are paraben and phthalate free, tested and approved by the Dermatology Association of the United States.
But no matter how good the descriptions of all of the products sound, and especially the Palmers stretch mark cream, all of the products only helped a little in narrowing the stretch marks and making them less visible and they just helped completely in making skin softer and more moisturized, but nothing else.
If you are truly looking for real solutions for your stretch marks problem, you may be consider using some other products specifically designed to aid your current state.
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum may reduce the appearance of burn, surgery, injury, stretch mark and C-section scars. Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum is available for purchase in local retail stores or online.
The manufacturer does not offer product purchase specials for this product, and the manufacturer does not state that Palmer’s coupons are available to reduce the cost of the product.
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum’s manufacturer does not supply a product ingredient list for this product. Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum is sold in a one ounce product size.
The manufacturer does not state how long Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum should last or how long customers should apply the product before discontinuing its use. Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum’s manufacturer also does not state if the product is formulated for all skin types and tones.
The Benefits of Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum:
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum may be purchased online or from a local retail store. Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum is formulated to reduce the appearance of burn, surgery, injury, stretch mark and C-section scars.
Compared to other over-the-counter scar removal products, Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum is cost-effective.
The Negatives of Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum’s manufacturer does not state how long the product should last or how long customers should apply the product before discontinuing its use.
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum’s manufacturer also does not state that the product is formulated for all skin types and tones, and an ingredient list is not provided.
Final Analysis on Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum may reduce the appearance of scars. Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum may be purchased online or in local retail stores, but the manufacturer does not offer product purchase specials or coupons.
Palmer’s Cocoa Butter Formula Vitamin E Scar Serum contains five powerful ingredients that help reduce the appearance of scars, but the specific ingredients found in the formulation are not provided.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name*
Email*
Website
Quick Links
Privacy Policy
Disclosure
Sitemap
Categories
Categories Select CategoryAcne Scar (1)Acne Scar Removal (1)Advice (8)Causes (1)FAQ (47)Laser (1)Pimple (1)Scar Cream (1)Stretch Mark (3)Stretch Mark Cream (3)Treatments (10)
Follow Us
Search The Site
Search for:
Disclaimer:
None of the statements made on www.scarcreamtruth.com have been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The advices and products mentioned on www.scarcreamtruth.com are not intended to diagnose, treat or prevent any diseases. You should consult with your doctor before using any product mentioned on www.scarcreamtruth.com.
We may receive commission or other income on certain products. However, this does not impact our reviews and comparisons mentioned on www.scarcreamtruth.com. We try our best to keep things fair and balanced, in order to help you make the best choice for you.
Any and all trademarks, logos, brand names and service marks displayed on www.scarcreamtruth.com are the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright © 2019 Scar Cream Truth
Share via
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Mix
Email
Print
Copy Link
CopyCopied
Powered by Social Snap
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
More Networks