Rocky Mountain spotted fever: Symptoms and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What's to know about Rocky Mountain spotted fever?
Last updated	 Fri 28 April 2017	 Last updated	Fri 28 Apr 2017
By Jennifer Berry
Reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, School of Medicine
Table of contents
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis and treatment
Prevention
Outlook
Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is the most deadly tickborne disease in the world. A bacterium called Rickettsia rickettsii causes this disease.
The bacterium is found only in North and South America.
Before antibiotics, RMSF in certain locations had a mortality rate of 70 percent. RMSF is now easier to treat and has a mortality rate of 0.3 percent following treatment.
Signs and symptoms
Symptoms of RMSF commonly represent flu.
The symptoms of RMSF are similar to those of common illnesses such as the flu. If RMSF is not treated within 5 days of symptom onset, there is a rapid increase in the chances of severe complications and death.
Many people with RMSF do not remember or even notice being bitten by a tick. They do not, as a result, associate the symptoms with the bite in good time to reduce complications.
Signs and symptoms of RMSF do not manifest immediately after being bitten by a tick. The incubation period of the disease, or the time between the tick bite and first symptoms, is typically 5 to 7 days. However, symptoms may begin as soon as 2 days after infection, or take as long as 14 days to show.
Signs of RMSF include:
fever
digestive problems, such as nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, or lack of appetite
severe abdominal pain
headache, particularly at the front of the head
muscle aches
a dry cough, sore throat, or both
chest pain that feels worse when coughing, sneezing, or inhaling (known as pleuritic chest pain)
red eyes resembling a pink eye infection
Another common symptom is a rash that begins on the wrists and ankles and may spread to feet, palms of hands, arms, legs, and torso. It typically begins with small, flat, pink spots that do not itch. Later, the spots may darken to a red or purple color. The darkening of the rash is a sign of advanced disease.
Causes and risk factors
Anyone bitten by an infected tick can get RMSF, and it can cause death even in young or previously healthy people.
The American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), and brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus) have all been shown to spread RMSF in the United States.
The states that are most commonly affected by RMSF are North Carolina, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Missouri, though cases have been reported in nearly all of the contiguous U.S.
People who have high exposure to dogs have a higher chance of getting RMSF, according to the CDC, because dog ticks so often carry R. rickettsia.
An outbreak of RMSF was seen recently in Eastern Arizona, with 140 cases over a 7-year period and a 10 percent mortality rate. Experts identified the brown dog tick as the culprit for the infections and nearly all of the infections were reported in areas that had a high number of free-roaming dogs.
People who live near wooded areas or who spend time in areas with tall grass, brush, or woods are also at greater risk of getting bitten by a tick and contracting RMSF or other tickborne diseases.
Colorado tick fever: Symptoms, treatment, and prevention
Click here to find out more about Colorado tick fever, another tick-borne disease.
Read now
Diagnosis and treatment
Diagnosis and confirmation of RMSF is carried out by laboratory tests.
Doxycycline is an antibiotic in the tetracycline family that effectively treats RMSF if given within the first 5 days of a person experiencing symptoms.
RMSF can kill if a course of treatment is not started within this timeframe. Studies have demonstrated other antibiotics not to be effective, and other medicinal options have been shown to worsen the illness.
RMSF's distinctive rash sometimes appears at a very late stage of the infection, days or occasionally weeks after a person should have started a course of antibiotics. In some cases, the rash does not appear at all.
A doctor may therefore decide to treat a patient for RMSF if they have other symptoms and suspect that a tick may have bitten them.
Some other tickborne illnesses, including ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis, have symptoms that are similar to RMSF and also respond well to doxycycline, so this approach can treat several different illnesses.
R. rickettsii does not always show in blood tests unless the patient has a severe, late-stage infection of RMSF. Laboratory tests can confirm the presence of antibodies to RMSF, but these do not appear until between 7 and 10 days after the onset of symptoms.
Sometimes a sample (or biopsy) of the rash can show the presence of RMSF, but these tests are accurate only 70 percent of the time.
Because of these delays and possible false negative results, treatment is typically done on suspicion alone, without a laboratory diagnosis of RMSF. Do not wait for the presentation of the rash or the laboratory results.
Antibiotics are not recommended after every tick bite, as this has not been proven to prevent RMSF or other tickborne illnesses. Instead, people who have been bitten by a tick should look for signs of illness and see a doctor immediately if they feel sick.
Prevention of Rocky Mountain spotted fever
There is no vaccine for RMSF, but a person can prevent infection by avoiding tick bites and removing ticks as soon as possible.
People can avoid tick bites by:
Using an insect repellent containing at least 20 percent DEET on the skin when outdoors. Follow the product's instructions and avoid the eyes, hands, and mouth area, especially on children.
Using permethrin insecticide, which kills ticks and lasts through several washes, on clothing and gear.
Treating pets for ticks, especially dogs. Dogs can easily contract RMSF and they may carry the ticks that spread it to humans. Ask a veterinarian about safe and effective tick prevention products for pets.
Staying in the center of trails when walking in tall grass, woods, or brush.
Enjoying the outdoors is possible as long as a person takes active steps to find ticks and quickly remove them. After being outdoors, the following is recommended:
Check thoroughly for ticks on skin. Prime areas for ticks to hide include the scalp, ears, hairline, underarms, groin, and belly button. Check pets' ears, underarms, groin, and paws.
Shower within 2 hours of coming inside. This can wash away ticks that are not attached. Wash all clothing and dry on high heat for 1 hour to kill ticks.
Remove any attached ticks right away. The sooner a tick is removed, the less of a chance of getting a tickborne disease. Use tweezers to grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible. Pull it straight out slowly and clean the area with a skin disinfectant. Seek medical attention if the tick is not completely removed. Do not apply Vaseline or heat to the tick body to remove it.
Watch for any signs of illness in the following days and weeks, especially fever and flu-like symptoms. Seek medical help if these signs appear.
Outlook
Rocky Mountain spotted fever can cause long-term health problems and death, especially in severe cases or if a patient does not commence doxycycline treatment soon after the first signs of illness.
A severe infection of RMSF can cause bleeding or clotting in the blood vessels, which can damage organs, including the brain. Damaged blood vessels can cause loss of circulation in extremities such as fingers and toes, potentially leading to amputation.
Neurological problems such as hearing loss, weakness in the legs, numbness, bladder or bowel incontinence, and language problems have also been reported.
People who contract a milder case of RMSF and who receive quick treatment often recover completely within a few weeks or months.
Related coverage
Ticks and Lyme disease: how worried should we be? With recent reports of a rise in Lyme disease cases, we try to find out just how worried should we be about the pesky bugs closely associated with the condition: ticks. Read now
Everything you need to know about valley fever Valley fever is a fungal disease causing fever, chest pain, coughing, and some other symptoms. It is found only in certain part of the United States and can be fatal without treatment. It is, however, not contagious between humans. This MNT Knowledge Center article explores the symptoms, causes, and treatments. Read now
Should I worry about a tick bite? Ticks are parasites that feed on blood, and although their bites are harmless they can still transmit diseases, such as Lyme disease or Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Learn whether tick bites are dangerous and how to recognize the signs and symptoms. This article also explains how to prevent tick bites. Read now
Histoplasmosis: Causes, risk factors, and treatment Histoplasmosis is a fungal infection with a variety of flu-like symptoms. It can cause a cough and night sweats and usually resolves without treatment, although may require anti-fungal medication if it is ongoing. Although it is not contagious, it can cause chronic complications. Read on for all you need to know. Read now
Ehrlichiosis: Symptoms, treatment, and prevention Ehrlichiosis is a type of bacterial infection commonly transmitted by the lone star tick. Symptoms appear after 1 to 2 weeks and include chills, confusion, and vomiting. Some people will develop a rash. Complications can arise, and it can be fatal in some cases. Treatment is usually with antibiotics. Find out more. Read now
email email
print
share share
Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses
Additional information
Article last updated on Fri 28 April 2017.
Visit our Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Archibald, L. & Sexton, D. (1995, May). Long-term sequelae of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 20(5): 1,122-1,125. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7619986
Bratton, R. & Corey, G. Tick-Borne Disease. (2005, June 15). American Family Physician, 71(12): 2,323-2,330. Retrieved from http://www.aafp.org/afp/2005/0615/p2323.html
Dahlgren, F. S., Holman, R. C., Paddock, C. D., Callinan, L. S., & McQuiston, J. H. (2012). Fatal Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever in the United States, 1999-2007. The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 86(4): 713-719. Retrieved from http://doi.org/10.4269/ajtmh.2012.11-0453
Geographic distribution of ticks that bite humans. (2015, June 1). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/ticks/geographic_distribution.html
RMSF is Deadly, Yet Preventable. (2016, October 7). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/features/rmsf/
Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. (2017, February 8). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/ticks/tickbornediseases/rmsf.html
Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF). (2017, April 18). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/rmsf/index.html
Statistics and Epidemiology. (2013, September 5). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/rmsf/stats/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Berry, Jennifer. "What's to know about Rocky Mountain spotted fever?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 28 Apr. 2017. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/317198.php>
APA
Berry, J. (2017, April 28). "What's to know about Rocky Mountain spotted fever?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/317198.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses
Chickenpox vs. measles: What's the difference?
What is the best home remedy for toenail fungus?
Sore throat and rash: Strep infection and other causes
Herpes simplex: Everything you need to know
How to treat and prevent an infected ear piercing
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/317198.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);