Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib) Effectiveness
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/chronic pain health center/chronic pain a-z list/aleve (naproxen) vs celebrex (celecoxib) article
Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib)
Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib) quick comparison
What is Aleve (naproxen)? What is Celebrex (celecoxib)? Are they the same?
What are the uses for Aleve vs. Celebrex?
What are the differences between the side effects of Aleve vs. Celebrex?
What is the dosage of Aleve vs. Celebrex?
What drugs interact with Aleve vs. Celebrex? Which is safer?
Are Aleve or Celebrex safe to take if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
Medical Reviewer: John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP
John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP
John P. Cunha, DO, is a U.S. board-certified Emergency Medicine Physician. Dr. Cunha's educational background includes a BS in Biology from Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, and a DO from the Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences in Kansas City, MO. He completed residency training in Emergency Medicine at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark, New Jersey.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Slideshow Pictures
Joint-Friendly Exercises to Reduce RA Pain Slideshow
Take the RA Quiz
Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib) quick comparison
What is Aleve (naproxen)? What is Celebrex (celecoxib)? Are they the same?
What are the uses for Aleve vs. Celebrex?
What are the differences between the side effects of Aleve vs. Celebrex?
What is the dosage of Aleve vs. Celebrex?
What drugs interact with Aleve vs. Celebrex? Which is safer?
Are Aleve or Celebrex safe to take if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib) quick comparison
Aleve (naproxen) and Celebrex (celecoxib) are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) used to treat arthritis, pain, menstrual cramps, and fever.
One difference between Aleve and Celebrex is that Aleve is available without a prescription from your doctor (over-the-counter, OTC) and Celebrex is not. You do need one to obtain Celebrex.
Side effects of Aleve and Celebrex that are similar include:
Headache
Abdominal pain
Nausea
Indigestion/heartburn
Diarrhea
Side effects of Celebrex that do not occur with Aleve include gas (flatulence) and insomnia.
Side effects of Aleve that do not occur with Celebrex include:
Rash
Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
Dizziness
Drowsiness
Constipation
Fluid retention
Shortness of breath
Like other NSAIDS, Celecoxib and Aleve may cause stomach and intestinal ulcers that may occur at any time during treatment.
Celecoxib is different from other NSAIDs in that it does not interfere with the function of the blood platelets and, as a result, it does not reduce clotting and lead to increased bleeding time like other NSAIDs.
What is Aleve (naproxen)? What is Celebrex (celecoxib)? Are they the same?
Celebrex, brand name celecoxib, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used for the treatment of arthritis, pain, menstrual cramps, and colon polyps. Prostaglandins are chemicals that contribute to arthritis pain, fever, swelling, and tenderness caused by inflammation. Celebrex blocks the enzyme that makes prostaglandins (cyclooxygenase 2), which results in lower concentrations of prostaglandins. Consequently, inflammation, pain, fever, swelling, and tenderness are reduced. Celebrex is different from other NSAIDs in that it causes less inflammation, and stomach and intestinal ulcers (at least with short-term use), and does not interfere with blood clotting.
Aleve (naproxen) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Other NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), nabumetone (Relafen) and others. These drugs are used for the management of mild to moderate pain, fever, and inflammation.
What are the uses for Aleve vs. Celebrex?
Aleve (naproxen) uses
Naproxen is used for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, inflammation, and fever.
Celebrex (celecoxib) uses
Celecoxib is used for the relief of pain, fever, swelling, and tenderness caused by osteoarthritis, juvenile arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Celecoxib does not prevent the progression of either type of arthritis. It reduces only the symptoms and signs of arthritis. Celecoxib is also approved for patients with familial FAP who have not had their colons removed. Celebrex also is also used for the relief of acute pain and the pain of menstrual cramps (primary dysmenorrhea).
What are the differences between the side effects of Aleve vs. Celebrex?
Aleve side effects
The most common side effects from Aleve are
rash,
ringing in the ears,
headaches,
dizziness,
drowsiness, abdominal pain, nausea,
diarrhea,
constipation,
heartburn,
fluid retention, and
shortness of breath.
Other important side effects include
fluid retention,
blood clots,
heart attacks,
hypertension, and
heart failure.
Celebrex side effects
The most common adverse effects of Celebrex are
headache,
abdominal pain,
indigestion
(dyspepsia),
diarrhea,
nausea,
flatulence, and
insomnia.
Other side effects include
fainting,
kidney failure,
heart failure,
aggravation of hypertension,
chest pain,
ringing in the ears,
deafness,
stomach and intestinal ulcers,
bleeding,
blurred vision,
anxiety,
photosensitivity,
weight gain,
water retention,
flu-like symptoms,
drowsiness and
weakness.
Celecoxib, like other NSAIDs may cause serious stomach and intestinal ulcers that may occur at any time during treatment. Celecoxib does not interfere with the function of the blood platelets and, as a result, does not reduce clotting and lead to increased bleeding time like other NSAIDs.
Allergic reactions can occur with celecoxib. Individuals who have developed allergic reactions (rash, itching, difficulty breathing) from sulfonamides (for example, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim [Bactrim]), aspirin or other NSAIDs may experience an allergic reaction to celecoxib and should not take celecoxib.
NSAIDs (except for low-dose aspirin) may increase the risk of heart attacks, stroke, and related conditions, which can be fatal. This risk may increase with duration of use and in patients who have underlying risk factors for heart and blood vessel conditions. NSAIDs should not be used for the treatment of pain resulting from coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious, even fatal, stomach and intestinal adverse reactions such as bleeding, ulcers, and perforation of the stomach or intestines. These events can occur at any time during treatment and without warning symptoms. Elderly patients are at greater risk for these types of reactions.
What is the dosage of Aleve vs. Celebrex?
Aleve dosage
Naproxen should be given with food to reduce upset stomach.
usual adult dose for pain is 250 every 6 to 8 hours or 500 mg twice daily using regular naproxen tablets.
The usual dose for Naprelan controlled release tablets is 750 to 1000 mg given once daily.
For EC-Naprosyn, the usual dose is 375-500 mg twice daily.
The dose for rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis is 500 to 1000 mg every 12 hours.
Menstrual cramps are treated with 250 mg every 6 to 8 hours after an initial dose of 500 mg.
Celebrex dosage
The lowest effective dose should be used for each patient.
For the management of osteoarthritis, the dose usually is 100 mg twice daily or 200 mg as a single dose.
For rheumatoid arthritis, the dose usually is 200 mg twice daily.
For acute pain or menstrual cramps, the dose is 400 mg as a single dose on the first day followed by an additional 200 mg if needed, then 200 mg twice daily as needed.
For FAP, the recommended dose is 400 mg twice daily.
What drugs interact with Aleve vs. Celebrex? Which is safer?
Aleve drug interactions
Naproxen is associated with several suspected or probable interactions that affect the action of other drugs. The most common drug interactions include.
Naproxen may increase the blood levels of lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) by reducing the excretion of lithium by the kidneys. Increased levels of lithium may lead to lithium toxicity.
Naproxen may reduce the blood pressure lowering effects of blood pressure medications. This may occur because prostaglandins play a role in the regulation of blood pressure.
When naproxen is used in combination with methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) or aminoglycosides (for example, gentamicin) the blood levels of the methotrexate or aminoglycoside may increase, presumably because the elimination from the body of these drugs is reduced. This may lead to more methotrexate or aminoglycoside-related side effects.
Individuals taking anticoagulants, for example, warfarin, (Coumadin), should avoid naproxen because naproxen also thins the blood, and excessive blood thinning may lead to bleeding.
Naproxen increases the negative effect of cyclosporine on kidney function and reduces the effect of furosemide (Lasix) and thiazide diuretics because of prostaglandin inhibition.
Naproxen should be avoided by patients with a history of asthma attacks, hives, or other allergic reactions to aspirin or other NSAIDs. If aspirin is taken with naproxen, there may be an increased risk for developing an ulcer.
People who have more than three alcoholic drinks per day may be at increased risk of developing stomach ulcers when taking naproxen or other NSAIDs.
Celebrex drug interactions
Combining Celebrex with aspirin or other NSAIDs (for example, ibuprofen, naproxen, etc.) may increase the occurrence of stomach and intestinal ulcers. It may be used with low dose aspirin.
Fluconazole (Diflucan) increases the concentration of celecoxib in the body by preventing the elimination of celecoxib in the liver. Therefore, treatment with celecoxib should be initiated at the lowest recommended doses in patients who are taking fluconazole.
Celecoxib increases the concentration of lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) in the blood by 17% and may promote lithium toxicity. Therefore, lithium therapy should be closely monitored during and after therapy with celecoxib.
Persons taking the anticoagulant (blood thinner) warfarin (Coumadin) should have their blood tested when initiating or changing celecoxib treatment, particularly in the first few days, for any changes in the effects of the anticoagulant.
NSAIDs may reduce the blood pressure-lowering effects of drugs that are given to reduce blood pressure. This may occur because prostaglandins play a role in the regulation of blood pressure.
Persons who drink more than three alcoholic beverages per day may be at increased risk of developing stomach ulcers when taking NSAIDs, this also may happen with celecoxib.
Daily Health News
Obesity Shrinks Brains
Sitting More, Tech to Blame
Cervical Cancer Rates Decline
Electrical Stimulation for Parkinson's
Toy Recall Choking Hazard
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID)
Listeria (Listeriosis)
Food Poisoning
Whooping Cough and Vaccine
Measles (Rubeola)
Are Aleve or Celebrex safe to take if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
Aleve safety
NSAIDs may cause a fetal birth defect called ductus arteriosus (early closure of two major blood vessels of the heart and lung) in the third trimester of pregnancy. Therefore, NSAIDs should be avoided during this last part of pregnancy.
A small amount of naproxen is excreted in breast milk. Because the concentration in breast milk is low, breastfeeding while taking naproxen probably is not harmful to the infant.
Celebrex safety
Celecoxib has not been studied in pregnant women. In animal studies, doses that were twice the maximally recommended dose were harmful to the fetus. It should not be used in late pregnancy because there is a risk of heart defects in the newborn. Celecoxib should only be used in pregnant women when the benefits outweigh the potential risk to the fetus.
Available evidence suggests that celecoxib is secreted in breast milk. Nursing mothers should avoid celecoxib or discontinue breastfeeding.
Summary
Aleve (naproxen) and Celebrex (celecoxib), a COX-2 inhibitor, are types of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that block your body from producing certain natural hormones that cause inflammation. Other NSAIDs cause more inflammation and ulcers of the gastrointestinal (GI, digestive) tract than Celebrex does.
Celebrex works differently from Aleve and other NSAIDs because it causes fewer gastrointestinal (GI, digestive) inflammation and bleeding ulcers.
Celebrex have similar side effects, for example, nausea, abdominal pain, indigestion, heartburn, diarrhea, and headache. Aleve also causes ringing in the ears, constipation, sleepiness, edema, shortness of breath, dizziness, and rash. Celebrex also may cause intestinal gas and insomnia.
Multimedia: Slideshows, Images & Quizzes
Ankylosing Spondylitis Quiz: Symptoms & Treatment
What is ankylosing spondylitis? Take this quiz to learn the causes, symptoms, and treatments for this painful disorder....
Gout Quiz: What is Gout? Is There a Gout Diet?
Learn what causes those painful crystals to form during a gout flare. Take the Gout Quiz to learn all about this painful...
Back Pain Quiz: Test Your Back Pain IQ
There are numerous causes of chronic lower back pain and only one ailment gets more complaints. What is it? Quiz your knowledge...
Headaches Quiz: Learn About Headache Pain
If you're plagued with headaches, our Headaches Quiz may help you identify causes, triggers, symptoms, and treatments for...
Pain Quiz: Test Your IQ of Pain
Is pain all in the brain? Take the Pain Quiz to learn everything you've ever wanted to know about the unpleasant sensation we...
Rheumatoid Arthritis Quiz: What is Rheumatoid Arthritis?
How is rheumatoid arthritis different from other forms of arthritis, such as osteoarthritis and gout? Take the Rheumatoid...
Picture of Gout
Condition characterized by abnormally elevated levels of uric acid in the blood, recurring attacks of joint inflammation...
Picture of Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis that is caused by the breakdown and eventual loss of the cartilage of one or more...
Gout Attack Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, and Diet
Gout attacks (gouty arthritis) are caused by crystals of uric acid deposits. Learn about symptoms, causes, treatments and...
Common Causes of Foot Pain
Learn about common causes of foot pain such as bunions, corns, athlete's foot, plantar warts and more. Get the latest information...
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Symptoms & Treatment
What is rheumatoid arthritis (RA)? Learn about juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Discover rheumatoid arthritis (RA) symptoms,...
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Exercises Slideshow: Joint-Friendly Fitness Routines
Regular exercise boosts fitness and helps reverse joint stiffness for people with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Our experts offer...
12 Surprising Headache Triggers Tips
Painful headaches can ruin your productivity and quality of life. But what triggers headaches and migraines? Learn some...
Back Pain: Find Relief, Treat Your Back Pain
Back pain conditions are very common. Learn the truth and get the facts behind myths, remedies, causes and treatment for back...
Exercises for Knee Osteoarthritis and Joint Pain
Learn about osteoarthritis and exercises that relieve knee osteoarthritis pain, stiffness and strengthen the knee joint and...
Osteoarthritis (OA): Treatment, Symptoms, Diagnosis
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease affecting both cartilage and bone. Joints most often affected by...
Pain Management: Surprising Causes of Pain
What’s causing your pain? Learn the common causes of lower back pain, as well as pain in the knee, stomach, kidney, shoulder,...
Migraine or Headache? Migraine Symptoms, Triggers, Treatment
What does a migraine feel like? Discover the difference between headaches and migraines. Learn to spot migraine symptoms early,...
Osteoarthritis: 15 Tips to Improve Daily Living With OA
Osteoarthritis joint pain can make it hard to carry out activities of daily living. Cartilage destruction can cause symptoms like...
Low Back Pain: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Relief
Do you suffer from low back pain? Watch this slideshow to see common triggers of lower back pain and what kind of treatments you...
Fun With Kids and More Ways to Live With OA in Pictures
You can still have lots of fun with children despite arthritis. Our experts uncover ways to spend time with your kids or...
Exercises for Osteoarthritis -- Yoga, Swimming, & More
Check out this slideshow on Active Living From Day to Night with Osteoarthritis. Even with arthritis you can keep your active...
Tips for Healthy Joints: Exercise, Nutrition, & More in Pictures
Dealing with joint pain and arthritis? Learn why weight matters--and why NOT to stretch before exercise. See these solutions for...
Migraine Headaches: 14 Non-Drug Treatments for Migraines
Learn about 14 non-drug treatments for migraines. Acupuncture, biofeedback and massage therapy are among this list of non-drug...
Pain-Relief Tips for Bumps, Bruises, Sprains, and Strains in Pictures
View this First Aid slideshow on Care and Pain Relief. See how to get pain relief if you've bumped your head, sprained your...
Pain Management: 15 Easy Ways to Reduce Chronic Pain
Chronic pain can be a symptom of many conditions, including arthritis, headaches, and others. Comprehensive pain management...
13 Ways to Relieve Menstrual Cramps
Find medical relief for menstrual cramps and menstrual pain symptoms. Learn how women's daily habits can relieve the discomfort...
Ankylosing Spondylitis: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
What is Ankylosing spondylitis (AS)? Ankylosing spondylitis is arthritis of the spine. It causes symptoms like stiffness and...
Arthritis: 16 Bad Habits That Cause Joint Pain
Being overweight, wearing uncomfortable shoes, or carrying a heavy purse can make joint pain and arthritis symptoms worse. Some...
Neck Pain: Causes and Treatment for Relief
What causes chronic neck pain? If you have poor posture, bad sleep habits, or spine problems, these issues can lead to a stiff...
Arthritis: Causes and Treatment for Joint Stiffness and Pain
Arthritis and injuries can leave your joints swollen, tender, and damaged. Discover treatments for morning stiffness, sore...
Related Disease Conditions
Ankle Pain
Ankle pain is commonly due to a sprain or tendinitis. The severity of ankle sprains ranges from mild (which can resolve within...
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis that causes chronic inflammation of the spine. The tendency to develop ankylosing...
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis)
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or JRA) annually affects one child in every thousand. There are six...
Lower Back Pain
There are many causes of back pain. Pain in the low back can relate to the bony lumbar spine, discs between the vertebrae,...
Elbow Pain
Elbow pain is most often the result of tendinitis, which can affect the inner or outer elbow. Treatment includes ice, rest, and...
Fever
Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not...
Gout (Gouty Arthritis)
Buildup of uric acid crystals in a joint causes gouty arthritis. Symptoms and signs include joint pain, swelling, heat, and...
Knee Pain
Acute injuries, medical conditions, and chronic use conditions are causes of knee pain. Symptoms and signs that accompany knee...
Migraine Headache
Migraine headache is a type of headache associated with a sensitivity to light, smells, or sounds, eye pain, severe pounding on...
Osteoarthritis (OA)
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis caused by inflammation, breakdown, and eventual loss of cartilage in the joints. Also...
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes chronic inflammation of the joints, the tissue around the joints,...
Neck Pain (Cervical Pain)
Neck pain (cervical pain) may be caused by any number of disorders and diseases. Tenderness is another symptom of neck pain....
Arthritis
Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. When joints are inflamed they can develop stiffness, warmth, swelling, redness...
Menstrual Cramps
Menstrual cramps (pain in the belly and pelvic area) are experienced by women as a result of menses. Menstrual cramps are not the...
Menstrual Cramps and Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) Medication Guide
Menstrual cramps and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms include abdominal cramping, bloating, a feeling of fullness, abdominal...
Chronic Pain
Chronic pain is pain (an unpleasant sense of discomfort) that persists or progresses over a long period of time. In contrast to...
Headache
Headaches can be divided into two categories: primary headaches and secondary headaches. Migraine headaches, tension headaches,...
Pain Management: Musculoskeletal Pain
Natural menopause is the permanent ending of menstruation that is not brought on by any type of medical treatment. For women...
Headaches in Children
Kids get headaches and migraines too. Many adults with headaches started having them as kids, in fact, 20% of adult headache...
Pain Management
Pain management and treatment can be simple or complex, according to its cause. There are two basic types of pain, nociceptive...
Foot Pain
Foot pain may be caused by injuries (sprains, strains, bruises, and fractures), diseases (diabetes, Hansen disease, and gout),...
16 Early Symptoms and Signs of Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Early RA symptoms and signs vary differently from person to person. The most common body parts that are initially affected by RA...
Shoulder and Neck Pain
Shoulder and neck pain may be caused by bursitis, a pinched nerve, whiplash, tendinitis, a herniated disc, or a rotator cuff...
Hip Pain
Arthritis, bursitis, IT band syndrome, fracture, and strain are just some of the causes of hip pain. Associated symptoms and...
Headache Natural Home Remedies
Headaches are a common complaint for many people. There are many types of headaches such as migraine, tension, cluster, and the...
Migraine vs. Headache: Differences and Similarities
Headaches are the most common reason why a person goes to the doctor or other healthcare professional for treatment. There are...
Rheumatoid Arthritis vs. Fibromyalgia
Though rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and fibromyalgia have similar symptoms, RA is an autoimmune disease and fibromyalgia is a...
Treatment & Diagnosis
FAQs & Doctor's Views
Headaches FAQs
Gout FAQs
Rheumatoid Arthritis FAQs
Back Pain FAQs
Pain FAQs
Ankylosing Spondylitis FAQs
Subscribe to MedicineNet's Arthritis Newsletter
By clicking "Submit," I agree to the MedicineNet Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. I also agree to receive emails from MedicineNet and I understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet subscriptions at any time.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration
You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Medically Reviewed on 2/16/2018
References
REFERENCES: FDA Prescribing Information for Aleve and Celebrex.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth