Depression Treatments - NewLifeOutlook | Depression - Part 2
Awareness
Cause
Risks
News
Treatments
Lifestyle
Exercise
Nutrition
Coping
Treatments
Your Stories
Community
Voices
.
string(10) "depression"
Awareness
Cause
Risks
News
Treatments
Lifestyle
Exercise
Nutrition
Coping
Treatments
Your Stories
Community
Voices
.
newlifeoutlook
Depression
Treatments
Things to Consider When Dating Someone With Depression
Natasha Devine
April 16, 2019
Dating someone with depression may not always be easy, but having a partner who is supportive and understanding can be a huge help in your healing.
0 found this helpful
Subscribe with Facebook
or subscribe via email:
Subscribe
Depression
Newsletter Sign-up
Stay up-to-date with all the latest Depression news, articles, and updates from your community!
Latest Treatments Content
How Chiropractic Care Can Lessen Depression
New research shows a link between chiropractic care and depression. This type of natural treatment can alleviate the symptoms of depression.
by Lana Barhum on April 6, 2017
Can Massages Help Depression?
Massage for depression is a low risk, high reward option that might be the intervention you need to gain the happiness you have been seeking.
by Eric Patterson on December 13, 2016
Which Type of Therapy Is Best for You?
Although it may seem like a failure to admit you need therapy, it's one of the best choices you can make. These types of therapy for depression can help!
by Eric Patterson on October 18, 2016
Getting Yourself Into Therapy for Depression
Only 41 percent of people with mental health concerns in the U.S. seek treatment. Seeing a therapist is crucial for depression treatment — here's why.
by Eric Patterson on June 29, 2016
Using Dance as Therapy for Depression
Dance as therapy for depression is a great way to exercise and to express yourself in a safe environment without the need for words.
by Eric Patterson on April 26, 2016
How Pet Therapy Can Help With Depression
There are many benefits to pet therapy for depression treatment. For example, a pet can provide some much needed motivation to start your day.
by Natasha Devine on May 20, 2015
The Ins and Outs of Taking Antidepressants
Although there is no cure for depression, there are ways to manage the symptoms and taking antidepressants is often one of the first steps.
by Natasha Devine on April 29, 2015
The Benefits of Music Therapy for Depression
Music therapy, and even listening to music at home, can have a powerful impact on depression. Have you considered music for depression treatment?
by Eric Patterson on January 21, 2015
Using Art Therapy to Cope With Depression
Art therapy for depression is an alternative therapy that many people find helps with expressing feelings. Give it a try and see if it works for you.
by Angela Finlay on December 9, 2014
Finding a Therapist Suited to Your Needs
Depression has become too much to ignore any longer. It may be time to seek professional help, but how do you know what therapist is right for you?
by Eric Patterson on September 16, 2014
« Previous 1 2 3 Next »
Your community is a place to find support and answers. Log In to participate.
FacebookTwitterEmail
Advertisement
Trending Comments
Affect it big time . They said go and exercise . And sometimes I can’t even get up from my bed .
1 found this helpful
I never was a good journalist, but my husband and I have been struggling in our marriage. One night I couldn’t sleep, to…
People who attack you, or won’t let you feel your own joy. Also, feeling negative about them in return. It’s and…
I signed up months ago, yet I have been so afraid to post anything until tonight. I am sitting in the hospital since…
Give us FeedbackSuggest TopicWrite for UsApply as ContributorShare your Story
Advertisement
Contributors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
© 2019 NewLifeOutlook™ All rights reserved.