Vitamin D 'significantly reduces severe asthma attacks'
Markets
Culture&Arts
Electronics
Sci-tech
Sport
People
Health Care
National
News
Home
Markets
Culture&Arts
Electronics
Sci-tech
Sport
People
Health Care
National
Our Company
Privacy Policy
Advertising
TRENDING
Florence Continues To Dump Massive Amounts Of Rain On East Coast
Vitamin D 'significantly reduces severe asthma attacks'
Health Care
Author: Delores Daniels Sep 08, 2016,
Sep 08, 2016, 1:25
Share:
Taking vitamin D supplements could significantly cut the risk of severe asthma attacks for some sufferers, say health experts.
The study claimed that intake of vitamin D tablets reduced the cases of severe attacks, which usually require a person to be admitted to the hospital or emergency department, from 6% to 3%. Taking vitamin D supplements also reduced the need for treating patients with steroids.
More than five million people in the United Kingdom, and 334 million globally, are affected by asthma which causes wheezing, coughing, tightness in the chest, and shortness of breath.
A daily dose of Vitamin D halves the risk of severe asthma attacks, a new study has shown.
Researchers said low blood levels of vitamin D had previously been linked to increased risk of asthma attacks and there was growing interest in its potential role in asthma management because it might help to reduce upper respiratory infections that can lead to exacerbations.
Review author Professor Adrian Martineau from the Asthma UK Centre for Applied Research, Queen Mary University of London, says in a statement: "This is an exciting result, but some caution is warranted".
As such, researchers have increasingly investigated whether vitamin D supplementation might benefit asthma patients. A review of previous data found that vitamin D supplements could have a protective effect against serious asthma attacks when taken alongside normal asthma treatment.
The researchers said: "Vitamin D is likely to offer protection against severe asthma attacks".
The team of Cochrane researchers found seven trials involving 435 children and two studies, involving 658 adults. Participants continued to use their standard medications, and suffered from mild to moderate asthma as opposed to severe asthma.
Dr. Rebecca Normansell recommends people to take a blood test to see what their level of vitamin D is and then talk to a GP or pharmacist for advice over supplements. These results are based largely on trials in adults.
Vitamin D has always been associated with asthma so the researchers looked into the efficacy of the supplement on patients with the condition.
"First, the findings relating to severe asthma attacks come from just three trials: most of the patients enrolled in these studies were adults with mild or moderate asthma".
He said further analyses were on-going and results should be available in the next few months.
"You can think of vitamin D nearly as a designer drug because it has these two actions, the first being to boost immunity to infections and the second to dampen down inflammation", said Martineau.
In July (16), Public Health England recommended that everyone should consider taking vitamin D supplements in autumn and winter.
"However, more work still needs to be done in gathering the evidence, particularly around effectiveness for young people and children - especially as it now affects as many as one in 11 children", he said.
Delores Daniels
Share:
LATEST NEWS
loading...
loading...
Delta and Korean Air rekindle a partnership grown frosty
Pouille beats Nadal 3-2 during 2016 US Open
Pope offers pizza lunch to 1500 poor after Mother Teresa canonization
Putin says Russia wants to restore ties with Britain
Obama meets survivor of United States bombs in Laos
McIlroy rallies from 6 behind to win Deutsche Bank
Donald Trump Says 'People Don't Care' About Tax Returns
Walking Dead season 7 spoilers: NEW promo! Negan threatens Rick!
Brock Turner registers as sex offender in Ohio
Robbie Lawler vs. Donald Cerrone Set For UFC 205
Josh Kline: Josh Kline no longer a part of Rowe trade
Vehicle park collapses in Tel Aviv killing 3 Israelis
Iran offers cautious support to oil freeze
Are Marco Rubio's chances of re-election improving?
Body of boy has been found 27 years after his abduction
RECCOMENDED STORIES
Noren pips Hend in playoff to win European Masters
Marcus Fraser continued his steady play to be one behind Green, a second consecutive 69 taking him to 7-under for the week. They finished tied on 17-under-par and returned to the 18th tee to settle the tournament over extra holes.
Navistar confirms major alliance with Volkwagen
Also in the longer term plans is a hope that the deal will enable collaboration in the development of future commercial vehicles. That amount is expected to grow as the companies continue to introduce technologies from the collaboration.
Curt Hawkins returns to WWE SmackDown next week
Now, Bryan had already made the Intercontinental Championship match official at Backlash between Ziggler and the Miz . It's become clear that WWE doesn't believe Wyatt needs many wins to remain one of the top stars on SmackDown .
Manhunt for couple on the run with three kidnapped kids
Harvill's body was found August 14 in some brush by a motorist traveling along Gorman Post Road, north of State Route 138. Ryle Watkins, 5, Brayden Watkins, 3, and Joslynn Watkins, 2, were found safe Wednesday at a motel in Albuquerque.
Tropical Storm Newton Is Headed For The US After Battering Mexico
Hurricane Newton shattered windows, downed trees and knocked out power in parts of the twin resorts of Los. Newton could reach the USA border at Arizona as a tropical storm at midday today, forecasters said.
Mercedes-Benz Concept Van Is a Drone Delivery Vehicle
Through innovative hardware-based solutions, Mercedes-Benz Vans is working on automated cargo space systems for delivery vehicles. Us drone will not be able to think for a zones so the delivery vans will need to be equipped with a control Centre as well.
Leader Of Ferguson Protests Found Dead In Burning Car
Louis County inside a vehicle - which had previously been on fire - with a gunshot wound, according to The Times . Louis Post-Dispatch listed the spelling of his given name as Darren.
Donald Trump failed his first foreign test: Bill Clinton
Natividad said Colorado voters understand that Trump's controversial stance on immigration is about security. Pena Nieto remained silent on the issue at the event, but said later on Twitter he did raise the issue.
Bill to increase farm overtime moves to California governor
But others fear their farmer bosses will respond by cutting back on working hours. The bill has been sent to Governor Brown's desk.
LG's V20 Rocks Android Nougat, Dual Cameras, Super Steady Video
It's a pretty nice design , and it means that you will have the option to replace the 3200mAh battery down the road. The LG V20's other specs are about as high-end as you'd expect from a new Android flagship in late 2016.
Apple Watch Series 2 Improves a Tick With GPS
Niantic's CEO just took to the stage at Apple's iPhone 7 keynote and announced that Pokemon GO is coming to the Apple Watch. Apple Watch launch: Apple CEO Tim Cook while unveiling the watch said that it is a favourite amongst it s customers.
Deandre Ayton chooses Arizona, but will he ever play for the Wildcats?
He averaged 29.2 points, 16.7 rebounds and 3.8 blocked shots per game for the Bruins last season as a high school junior. While Kansas had always been considered the frontrunner, Sean Miller and the Wildcats were the sleeper as the home team.
Conservative Activist, Author Phyllis Schlafly Dead at 92
In between these achievements, Schlafly was particularly outspoken about issues such as homosexuality, women, and immigration. She would get off work at 8 a.m., attend morning classes, then sleep in the middle of the day before doing it all over again.
IOC's Hickey declines questions on ticket scalping in Rio
Be proactive - Use the "Flag as Inappropriate" link at the upper right corner of each comment to let us know of abusive posts. Pat Hickey and Kevin Mallon have been formally charged over their alleged involvement in the Rio Olympics ticketing scandal.
Kaine defends Hillary - with specter of 44-year-old Nixon scandal
Yet Pence also opened the door for more criticism of Trump by vowing to release his own income tax returns within the next week. Donald Trump is banning journalists from outlets he doesn't like from covering him on a campaign.
FROM ACTV7 News
Construction Worker Explains His Viral Selfie With Kate Middleton
Manchester United striker set to join Premier League side permanently
Longtime Uzbekistan President Islam Karimov dies after stroke
Happy Landings: 3 Space Station Crew Members Back on Earth
Prime Minister meets with Lao, Philippine leaders
Turkish soldiers killed by DAESH in Syria
Three new human cases of West Nile virus reported in southwestern Idaho
Prosecutors want 13 other women to testify against Cosby
Monza pole for Hamilton
Clemson QB focused on wins, not stats after sluggish start
William and Kate's first Royal Visit to Cornwall
PayPal's Braintree to Offer Visa Checkout - Expanding Choice for Merchants and Consumers
South Korea: North Korea fires three ballistic missiles
Legion companion app lets you send followers on missions, more
Deaf driver killed by trooper afraid of police
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Second Measles Case Confirmed In NE Iowa
Author:
Parents in New York City Are Throwing Measles Parties
Author:
Senate triggers 'nuclear option' to speed through confirmation of Trump appointees
Author:
Chicago PD launches internal investigation into Jussie Smollett case
Author:
Frequent Use Of Marijuana Linked To Increased Risk For Psychosis
Author:
Our Company
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Categories
Sci-tech
Electronics
Culture&Arts
Markets
National
Health Care
People
Sport
Copyright © 2019 All Rights Reserved | ACTV7 News