Anemia Treatment at Home | 6 Iron Rich Foods To Combat Anemia
Home » Best Iron Rich Foods List for Anemia Treatment at Home
Best Iron Rich Foods List for Anemia Treatment at Home
February 13, 2017 By Honey Leave a Comment
Topic Highlights
1 What Causes Anemia & What are the Symptoms of Anemia?
1.1 List of the Anemia Causes
1.2 Anemia Signs & Symptoms – How Can You Know If You’re Anemic?
2 The Best Anemia Treatment at Home – Homemade Foods & Drinks for Anemia
2.1 How to Get Rid of Anemia Fast? – Spinach
2.1.1 Iron Deficiency Anemia Natural Treatment with Spinach
2.1.2 Spinach Juice for Anemia Prevention
2.2 Beat Anemia with Beetroots – How to Treat Anemia with Natural Remedies?
2.2.1 Beetroot Juice Recipe for Anemia diet
2.2.2 Natural Treatment of Anemia with Beets
2.2.3 Beetroot recipe for Iron Deficiency Anemia
2.3 How are Dates Good in Treating Anemia?
2.3.1 Homemade Medicine for Anemia – Dates
2.4 Benefits of Pomegranate in Curing Anemia
2.4.1 How to Cure Anemia fast with pomegranate?
2.4.2 Pomegranate to Recover from Anemia Quickly
2.5 Does Tomatoes Treat Anemia?
2.5.1 Iron Deficiency Treatment with Tomatoes
2.6 Nuts & Whole Grains to Avoid Anemia
2.6.1 Anemia Natural Treatment with Nuts
Anemia Treatment: A deficiency of nutrients due to a lack of iron, vitamin B12, folic acid in the body is called Anemia. When someone is hit by anemia, they have a less count of red blood cells and blood oxygen levels. Many types of anemia like sickle anemia, sideroblastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, etc. are also due to nutritional deficiency and some improper body functionings.
Every type of anemia requires a different kind of medical treatment. So, have an anemia test, know the anemia type you are with and get the best anemia treatment. Once you are sure with the anemia types, let us know why does anemia occur and how can identify anemic presence in your body.
[Read more: How to get rid of oily skin?]
What Causes Anemia & What are the Symptoms of Anemia?
Anemia is the most common blood disease which can occur in women, children, and someone with chronic diseases. However, it may not be for a lifetime. Some might be very severe and some might be very normal and can be cured easily. Here are the regular causes of anemia.
A Brief Idea on Anemia, types, causes, symptoms, and natural remedies
List of the Anemia Causes
Leukemia.
Lower levels of erythropoietin – a hormone released by kidneys.
Excessive loss of blood – during the menstrual cycle in women.
Improper diet.
Pregnancy.
[Read more: How to use coconut oil for dry skin?]
Anemia Signs & Symptoms – How Can You Know If You’re Anemic?
Headache.
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Chest Pain.
Memory Loss.
Lower Blood Pressure.
Excessive Hair Loss.
Cold Hands & Feet.
Pale or Yellowish Skin color.
Irregular Heartbeats.
Uncomfortable Breathe.
[Read more: Home remedies for cracked feet]
If you are with a normal type, then you can treat anemia at home with some basic diet rules. Here are the natural ways of treating anemia.
The Best Anemia Treatment at Home – Homemade Foods & Drinks for Anemia
Foods that an Anemic Patient should Include in Diet and fight Anemia
How to Get Rid of Anemia Fast? – Spinach
This is the best of all leafy vegetables that can cure anemia naturally. It is a rich source of calcium, iron, vitamins A, B9, C, and E, fibers. The spinach soup provides 3.2 mg of iron which fulfills 20% of the daily requirements of the iron for women. Remember not to boil the spinach leaves more than 3 minutes as it loses the oxalic acid which helps to absorb iron into the body. Look at the below recipes that can help in anemia treatment.
[Also read how to grow hair faster?]
Iron Deficiency Anemia Natural Treatment with Spinach
Prepare a salad dressing by chopping spinach, broccoli, kale, celery, and watercress.
Eat it regularly to increase the count of RBC and win against anemia.
Spinach Juice for Anemia Prevention
Make a juice of spinach and add 2 tbsps honey to it.
Drink this anemia medicinal juice continuously for 40 days to get rid of anemia.
[Read more: how to get rid of wrinkles?]
Beat Anemia with Beetroots – How to Treat Anemia with Natural Remedies?
The reddish Beetroot is a rich source of iron, calcium, sulfur, potassium. It raises the levels of oxygen levels in the blood and also the RBC count. As an anemia treatment, you can eat two beets a day. Look at the other procedures of using beets for treating anemia.
Beetroot Juice Recipe for Anemia diet
Make a combination of equal amounts of apple and beetroot juices.
Then add two tsp of honey to the mixture.
Drink this anemia curing juice two times a day to raise the blood hemoglobin levels.
Natural Treatment of Anemia with Beets
Blend 1 beet, half a piece of sweet potato which is cooked, three carrots smoothly.
Eat this mixture every day to get rid of anemia symptoms.
Beetroot recipe for Iron Deficiency Anemia
Make a mixture of 1 ripe banana, 1 tbsp juice of Indian gooseberry.
Have this mixture thrice a day as a cure for anemia.
[Also read: Apple cider vinegar for weight loss]
How are Dates Good in Treating Anemia?
A regular consumption of dates is the best anemia treatment. Because a 100gms of dates is a pack of 90 mg of iron. They are the high sources of magnesium, calcium, manganese, copper, iron. Since copper is a very important mineral for the production of red blood cells, look at the recipes of dates to treat anemia naturally at home.
Homemade Medicine for Anemia – Dates
Soak two dry dates in milk for the whole night.
Consume the dates and then the milk on an empty stomach in the morning.
If you are allergic to milk, then soak dates in water and repeat the process to get rid of anemia naturally.
You can also eat the dry dates and then drink milk without soaking them.
Do any of this anemia treatments 3 to 4 times a day to prevent anemia.
[Read more: Home remedies for cystic acne scars]
Benefits of Pomegranate in Curing Anemia
Here is one of the best home remedies for anemia with pomegranate. It possesses carbohydrates, fats, natural sugars, fibers, proteins, copper, potassium and many other essential vitamins. So, to get rid of anemia completely, drink the pomegranate juice and eat the seeds daily. Moreover, try the below recipes for curing anemia faster.
How to Cure Anemia fast with pomegranate?
Mix half a tsp honey, 1/4th tsp cinnamon powder, and pomegranate juice.
Drink the anemia curing juice along with breakfast to fight anemia stronger.
Pomegranate to Recover from Anemia Quickly
Add two tsp pomegranate powder to a glass of milk.
Drink this two times a day for treating anemia disease.
[Read more: How to get rid of pimples fast]
Does Tomatoes Treat Anemia?
Another home remedy for anemia is the tomato. The tomatoes are rich in vitamin C and lycopene. They help in the absorption of iron into the body and thereby prevents anemia.
Iron Deficiency Treatment with Tomatoes
Dine two fresh and raw tomatoes every day either in sandwiches or salads or the tomatoes alone.
You can also drink the juice of tomatoes daily.
If you are not ready to take the tomato juice alone, mix apple juice with it and drink to reduce the anemia levels
Nuts & Whole Grains to Avoid Anemia
This is the favorite part of all the anemia treatments. Because of the delicious nuts, whole grains are the rich sources of folic acid and iron. So, with a balanced diet follow the below tips to absorb iron from the nuts.
Anemia Natural Treatment with Nuts
Eat pinto beans, chickpeas, green peas, kidney beans, lima beans, almonds, and peanuts.
Half a cup of walnuts supplies 3.75 mg of iron to the body.
Avoid coffee, cocoa, tea, and polyphenols which inhibit the iron absorption.
These are some of the best anemia home remedies that can help someone who suffers from anemia. You can also use banana, bottle gourd, sesame seeds, honey, nuts, ash gourd, etc. as the anemia treatment.
Iron Man Could Cure Anemia…!
Filed Under: Uncategorized
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Disclaimer:The content available on this website is just for informational purpose and we took reference from the best sources. Readers are strictly advised to consult a health care provider or a doctor before trying these remedies.