Effective Treaments for Female Hair Loss - PCOS Personal Trainer
Skip to post
the
What is PCOS About Fit Studio Program Revolution Coaching LOG IN
Weight Loss Diet Fitness Fertility & Motherhood Skin & Hair PCOS Treatments Motivation View All
PCOS Treatments
The Most Effective Treatments For Female Hair Loss Backed By Science
PCOS hair loss is a frustrating and embarrassing symptom to deal with. But thanks to the many science-backed treatments now available, you do have options.
May 30, 2017 March 3, 2019
Guest post by Alex Eriksson
+1
Share
Tweet
Pin
0 Shares
Hair loss is one PCOS symptom that many men can relate to. That is why I jumped at the chance to have Alex Eriksson, a men’s health blogger share some insights on hair loss treatments. Thank you, Alex, for lending your expertise.
For some women, going bald is either a bold choice or a health complication. But although several female celebrities have sported a shaved head proudly, many women still find it a tough choice, especially for those who deal with health conditions or undergo certain treatments that bring about extreme female hair loss.
This also includes women with PCOS. Keep in mind that telling you this is not to scare you. Rather, this should serve as a way for you to improve your awareness about your condition and prepare for one of its possible complications.
How PCOS Triggers Female Hair Loss
More than half of the male population is bound to experience some sort of baldness by the age of 60. There are many different types of baldness. The type that most men experience is called androgenic alopecia, also known as male pattern baldness.
Although it is more common in men, some women may also have this type of baldness as a sign of other health conditions like PCOS. Hair loss may also be caused by problems with nutrient delivery, genetics, aging, and extreme imbalances in estrogen and other hormones.
Androgenic alopecia stems from hormonal imbalance involving the sex hormones. As you know, PCOS can cause such imbalance in your body.
Treatment Options
Thankfully, female hair loss is often manageable. It is much easier to deal with than many of the other signs and symptoms of PCOS. Here are the best treatment options available for you as backed by science.
1. Minoxidil
Originally named Rogaine, Minoxidil is currently the most sought-after hair loss treatment. Aside from being effective, this is also a popular option due to the affordability of generic versions of the medicine.
At first, Minoxidil was intended for hypertensive individuals. However, it caused excessive hair growth as a side effect. What was once seen as a disadvantage is now viewed as an advantage for people who experience hair loss. The FDA even approved its use as one of the few effective hair loss treatments.
Minoxidil works by improving blood circulation in the hair follicles. As a result, more oxygen and nutrients are delivered into the follicles, which promote hair growth.
There are various brands you can choose from for this hair loss treatment. But your main shopping consideration should be the concentration. This study suggests that brands with higher concentrations are more effective.
2. Ketoconazole
Just like Minoxidil, Ketoconazole wasn’t originally developed as a hair loss treatment. It was actually intended as an anti-fungal medicine at first. It was, later on, discovered that it can counter male pattern baldness as well as fungi-induced baldness. You can also find this chemical in some of the most popular hair loss shampoos on the market today.
Ketoconazole attaches to androgen receptors on hair follicles and thus, prevents the receptors from interacting with the hormone dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Excessive DHT causes the receptors to receive fewer nutrients, which then results in thinning of the hair. Therefore, it is important to block DHT from interacting with the receptors.
However, keep in mind that Ketoconazole doesn’t prevent DHT production. It simply stops the interaction between the androgen receptors and DHT. If you want a more effective hair loss treatment, you have to combine this with another treatment that controls DHT production.
3. Spironolactone
Spironolactone works similarly to Ketoconazole and has been successful in treating PCOS symptoms like hair loss. It also prevents DHT and androgen receptors interaction. It has some similarities with Minoxidil as well. Both Spironolactone and Minoxidil were originally intended for the management of hypertension.
However, Spironolactone can prolong your period as it is a strong pro-estrogenic medicine. To prevent excessive bleeding, you can try taking spironolactone cyclically instead of daily.
4. Finasteride
Men use Finasteride to manage some symptoms of prostate problems. However, it is now also being used by both men and women alike in treating hair loss. It is among the most effective options out there although it was once deemed as ineffective. In fact, Finasteride is only one of the two hair loss treatments approved by FDA. In a recent study, it was found to be most effective if used along with Minoxidil.
Among all the treatment options herein, Finasteride is the only one that targets the root cause of hair loss. As a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, it stops testosterone from being converted into DHT. Without DHT, no DHT hormone can interact with androgen receptors that can trigger the hair loss.
However, Finasteride is far from being the perfect medication against hair loss. In men, the use of this hair loss medication can cause erectile problems among many others. Both men and women alike may suffer from depression, suicidal ideation and loss of sexual function due to the use of Finasteride.
Natural Treatments for Female Hair Loss
Incorporating some key nutrients into your diet can help with hair loss as well. Nutritional changes can be especially helpful if you are not interested in treating hair loss with prescription medication.
1. Carnintine
Some studies suggest that carnitine, particularly L-Carnitine, stimulates hair growth. Carnitine supports hair growth on a cellular level by stimulating the mitochondria in hair follicle cells. Seafood, pork, chicken, and dairy products are the best sources of this carnitine. Supplements containing carnitine are also beneficial because the amounts in foods are often not enough to achieve significant results.
2. Capsaicin and Soy Isoflavones
Capsaicin is a nutrient found in chili peppers and isoflavones are an estrogenic nutrient found in soybeans. According to this study, the combination of capsaicin and soy isoflavones can promote hair growth by improving the dermal levels of IGF-1. You can add this treatment to your hair loss fighting plan by simply eating chili peppers and soy products. It is not necessary to take a supplement.
3 Raspberry Ketone Cream
Raspberry ketones are more popular as a weight loss supplement than as a hair loss treatment. Surprisingly, there is no scientific proof that raspberry ketones actually help in losing weight. However, research has revealed that raspberry ketones can increase hair growth by stimulating the release calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which promotes the formation of dermal IGF-1 and leads to hair growth.
Living with PCOS should not mean you have to say goodbye to your hair. There are medications and natural remedies you can choose from to bring your locks back to life.
I’ve compiled some hair loss research studies that you can have sent to your inbox now. Sharing them with your healthcare provider will help you start a serious conversation about saving your hair.
About The Author
Alex Eriksson is the founder of Anabolic Health, a men’s health blog dedicated to providing honest and research backed advice for optimal male hormonal health. Anabolic Health aspires to become a trusted resource where men can come and learn how to fix their hormonal problems naturally, without pharmaceuticals. You can connect with Alex and Anabolic Health on social media.
MORE IN PCOS Treatments
PCOS Treatments
Sleep and Your Hormones
The hormones affected by PCOS can worsen sleep, but talking to a doctor can help idenfity treatable issues like sleep apnea or nighttime cortisol spikes.
July 8, 2018 March 3, 2019
Guest post by SleepHelp.org
Share35
+1
Tweet
Pin
35 Shares
PCOS Treatments
Natural Treatments for PCOS Hunger with Dr. Fiona Muculloch
Dr. Fiona McCulloch, expert in natural PCOS treatments, explains why imbalanced hormones can cause extreme hunger and how to combat this symptom naturally.
April 16, 2018 March 3, 2019
Share41
Pin1
+1
Tweet
42 Shares
PCOS Treatments
PCOS Supplements That Work: An Interview with Registered Dietician Angela Grassi
In this interview, Registered Dietician and PCOS expert Angela Grassi talks about which PCOS supplements are safe, healthy, and actually work.
March 18, 2018 March 3, 2019
Share41
Pin3
+1
Tweet
44 Shares
Recommended
Fertility & Motherhood
6 Real Life Tips for Losing Weight After Pregnancy
March 28, 2019 April 6, 2019
Share89
+1
Tweet
Pin
89 Shares
Fitness
3 Surprising Facts about PCOS Workouts and Heart Health
What you need to know right now to fight PCOS symptoms and lower your risk for heart disease. Several PCOS symptoms also happen to be risk factors for heart disease. Working out can reduce or elminate PCOS symptoms and fight heart disease.
February 8, 2019 April 6, 2019
Share52
+1
Tweet
Pin
52 Shares
Diet
Indian Chicken Curry for a PCOS Diet
This easy chicken curry will provide you with the protein and healthy fats that every PCOS-friendly meal should include. Serve this curry with veggies and rice or roti to complete the meal.
January 23, 2019 April 6, 2019
Guest post by Manasi Mande
Share90
Pin4
+1
Tweet
94 Shares
Hi! I'm Erika.
I’m a certified Personal Trainer and Nutrition Coach. I also happen to have Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome. I help guide guide women living with PCOS toward a lifestyle that gets their symptoms under control so that they have the time, energy, and confidence to thrive. My tips, plans, programs, and guides cover all the information I wish I had when I was first diagnosed.
New here?
Grab a free copy of my Weight Loss Action Plan and other free PCOS management resources.
the
LEARN
Weight Loss
Diet
Fitness
Fertility & Motherhood
Skin & Hair
PCOS Treatments
Motivation
FOLLOW
CONTACT
[email protected]
Website Designed by Ariele Gold & Development by Isabella Brookes © 2019 PCOS Personal Trainer | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions