Acupuncture Specialist Doctors in Brooklyn New York | Holistic Healing Therapy | Homeopathy Treatment
Amita Holistic Healing Center - - We Treat Both Children and Adults.
718-375-1144 View the website in Russian
About Us
Brooklyn Anxiety Acupuncturist
Dr. Tatyana Yakovleva
Homeopathic Doctor in Brooklyn
FAQ
Testimonials
Our Video
Contact Us
E-Shop
Amita Healing Creams
Terms and Conditions
Payment and Shipping
Treatment
Diagnostics
Chinese pulse diagnosis
Acupuncture Treatment in Brooklyn
Lipo Laser Treatment
Holistic Approaches to Stress Reduction
Homeopathy in New York
Detox
Homeopathy Benefits
Allergy Treatment
Electromagnetic Therapy
Cupping Therapy
Microcurrent Therapy
Cellulite Removal
Reflexology
Conditions
Back Pain Treatment
Depression Treatment
Panic Attack Treatment
Multiple Sclerosis
Sport Injuries
Psoriasis and Eczema
Male Problems
Pain Management
Cirrhosis of the Liver
Chronic Fatigue
Weight Loss
Spine and Joints Disorders
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Asthma
Dizziness
Headaches
Knee Pain
Sinuses
Heart Disease
Cardiovascular Disease
Reiki
Reiki School
Reiki Treatment
Energy Healing
Kundalini Reiki
Beauty
Beauty Treatment
Facial Rejuvenation Acupuncture
Face treatment
Body treatment
Hands treatment
Hair growth
Education
Seminars Plan
Yoga
Kundalini Yoga
Magic Points
Second Birth Certificates
Other Courses
Gallery
Blog
Treatment of Asthma by Holistic Medicine
Posted by Amit Usa on December 11th, 2016 at 1:47 pm | No Comments
Asthma is a respiratory condition in which a person feels difficulty breathing. This condition is usually associated with hypersensitivity or some kind of allergic reaction. Whatever be the cause, this is the most frustrating disease which is often difficult to cure. If you are also fed up of using asthma inhalers and consuming strong allopathic medicines, you will be happy to know that some holistic treatments for asthma are available too that aim to reinforce the body’s ability to protect itself from the triggering factors of Asthma and strengthen lungs, immune and hormonal system.
Although the efficacy of these treatments is still under scrutiny and there is very little research on its effectiveness, many people have benefitted from the holistic treatments. Following are a few such alternative treatments for asthma that you can follow to treat your condition. However, it’s always advised to consult your doctor first. He may suggest you which treatment is right for you and which doesn’t.
1) Herbs and Supplements: There are several over-the-counter herbs and dietary supplements available in the medical shops that can be used as holistic treatments for asthma. However, research is still going on to confirm the effectiveness of these supplements and identify their possible side-effects. Therefore, before trying any of these OTC supplements or herbs, always consult a doctor. Following are a few herbs and supplements that are known to be helpful in treating asthma:
?	Ginkgo extract is known to reduce inflammation.
?	Lobelia (Indian tobacco) has been used by Native Americans to treat respiratory disorders, including asthma.
?	Mullein, dried ivy, boswellia (Indian frankincense), and butterbur are some other herbs that are known to be effective in treating asthma.
?	Vitamin C and omega-3 fatty acids reduce inflammation and asthma symptoms.
?	Coffee and tea can also be useful in the treatment of asthma.
2) Mind Body Approaches: Some studies have shown that the asthma symptoms and attacks can be triggered by emotional stress. Some asthma patients find muscular relaxation therapy an effective way to improve lung function. Biofeedback makes use of the monitors to determine physiological changes in patients. It helps them regain control on their bodies by understanding how they physically respond to different stimuli.
3) Yoga and Breathing Techniques: Yoga’s controlled breathing postures called pranayama can be extremely helpful in treating most of the respiratory diseases including asthma. These yogic postures involve deep breathing exercises that help asthma sufferers by teaching them how to promote deep breathing, how to expand the lungs, and how to reduce stress. Buteyko and the Papworth method are the other breathing techniques that can also be quite effective in reducing the symptoms of Asthma.
4) Acupuncture: Acupuncture is a traditional Chinese holistic treatment for asthma that involves inserting very thin needles into strategic points of the body. This alternative treatment is used to ease the symptoms of asthma. However again, there is very little scientific evidence to prove its efficacy.
The Bottom Line
These were some of the holistic treatments for asthma that are known to be quite effective in treating its symptoms. Talk to your doctor regarding these and see which one works best for you.
Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on Google+Share on LinkedinShare on Pinterest
Newer Posts
Home
Older Posts
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Contact Us
718-375-1144
Amita Holistic Healing Center
Address: 2940 Brighton 5th St. Brooklyn, NY 11235 USA
Email:joseph@amitausa.com
tatyana@amitausa.com
Blog: amitausa.blogspot.com
Follow Amita Holistic Healing Center on Facebook
Amita Healing Center
Amita Holistic Healing Center uses the most advanced variety of alternative methods and ancient Oriental Medicine methods to understand the cause of each medical condition. We use our unique technology like: ORION Bioscan to gain a better understanding of any energetic imbalances in the body that have led to the development of pain, ailments and diseases. https://turninpaper.com
We work:
Tuesday 11am - 9pm;
Thursday 11am - 9pm;
Sunday 10am - 5pm;
Reiki, Karuna-Kei, Chinese, Korean Su Jok, French Auriculotherapy acupuncture, magnetic therapy, Bio Energy Healing, Color therapy, Vibration therapy, Lymph draining techniques, Detoxification treatments, Micro-current therapy, and plasma current therapies. We heal by harnessing nature medicinal plants and other natural substances and combining them with diet, exercise, and cleansing, as well as principles of spiritual and psychological transformation.
Call Us: 718-375-1144
Free Consultation