Drinks for Lower Blood Pressure Archives - Page 2 of 2 - High Blood Pressure Be Gone
High Blood Pressure Be Gone
Lower your blood pressure naturally
About
Contact Us
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Disclosure Policy
Terms and Conditions
High Blood Pressure Remedy Reviews
BreathEasy Blood Pressure Exercises
Christian Goodman 3 Exercises Review
Get Natural! Guide
HBPressure Remedy Report
How to Naturally Reduce and Help High Blood Pressure review
Zona Plus Review
How to Lower Blood Pressure Naturally
How to Lower Blood Pressure Naturally – Overview
Normal Blood Pressure vs Ideal Blood Pressure
Causes and Treatments
Is High Blood Pressure Hereditary?
(Why) Do I Need a Blood Pressure Monitor?
Medication or Natural Methods?
Diets to Lower Blood Pressure
Lower Blood Pressure Through Exercise
Category: Drinks for Lower Blood Pressure
Why drinking milk can lower your blood pressure
One comment
From: www.saga.co.uk
Drink skimmed milk for lower blood pressure
Consuming lots of low-fat dairy products, like skimmed milk and low-fat yoghurt, could cut the risk of developing high blood pressure and help maintain a healthy heart, say scientists writing the in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition
Researchers from Wageningen University in the Netherlands looked at 2,245 adults aged 55 and over who did not have a history of hypertension (high blood pressure). The volunteers were interviewed by a trained dietician and dietary habits including dairy intake were recorded.
Blood pressure was assessed at the beginning of the study and again two years later. High blood pressure was defined as 140/90 mmHg or above.
The team found that those people who consumed the most low-fat dairy had a 31 per cent decreased risk of high blood pressure compared to those who consumed the least. The same association was not found with high-fat products like full-fat milk or cheese.
This is not the first study to show that a healthy diet can significantly cut the risk of developing high blood pressure and heart disease.
“Trials show a diet rich in fruit, vegetables and low-fat dairy products can substantially reduce blood pressure,” say the authors of the study. “Although the underlying mechanism remains to be established, it has been linked to proteins, bioactive peptides and minerals such as calcium, potassium or magnesium.”
Around 10 million people in the UK have high blood pressure which is a major risk factor for heart attack and stroke. High blood pressure tends to run in families and is also more common in people who smoke or are obese.
People diagnosed with hypertension are encouraged to make lifestyle changes to lower their blood pressure including following a healthy diet, losing weight and reducing salt, caffeine and alcohol intake. If blood pressure levels remain at 160/100 mmHg or above drug treatment may be advised. There are several medications for hypertension including ACE (Angiotensin-converting enzyme) inhibitors, calcium-channel blockers, diuretics and beta-blockers.
Mike Rich, Executive Director of the Blood Pressure Association welcomed the study but cautioned against over indulging in low-fat dairy.
“While this study is further evidence that a healthy diet can help reduce the risk of developing high blood pressure, there is not enough evidence to say that low fat dairy products alone can do this, ” said Rich.
“So we wouldn’t suggest that people need to start gulping down gallons of skimmed milk or other low-fat dairy products just yet. It’s all about balance – opting for low fat in place of high fat dairy products, as part of a low-salt diet with lots of fruit and vegetables will set you on your way to lifelong healthy blood pressure.”
Simon Foster
Milk has loads of calcium.
Calcium plays a role in the constriction and relaxation of your blood vessels. Supplementing with calcium has helped lower blood pressure in a number of studies.
If drinking loads of low-fat milk everyday isn’t your cup of tea talking a daily calcium suppliment (500 – 600 mg) will help put you on the road to lower blood pressure.
UPDATE (2015): Most scientific research is now showing that a low-fat diet is not necessarily the answer for high blood pressure, and that many naturally-occuring fats such as those in butter and milk are not in fact bad for your blood pressure.
See my post here for more details: saturated fat and high blood pressure
In the meantime, focus on getting enough calcium rather than avoiding fat (although most fats in processed foods are still bad for high blood pressure!).
« 1 2
Search
Search for:
Try a slow breathing exercise today
Rapid-Read Kindle books
Lower Your Blood Pressure Naturally – 9 Step Guide
Click here to download
Useful Information
About BP Readings
Causes of Hypertension
Drinks for Lower Blood Pressure
Exercise for Lower Blood Pressure
Good Food for Lower Blood Pressure
Supplements for Lower Blood Pressure
Stress Reduction for Lower Blood Pressure
Hypertension Medications (and side-effects)
Recent Posts
Can You Increase Serotonin Levels With Food?
Can Sunlight Cure High Blood Pressure?
Herpes link to hypertension?
What to Drink to Lower Blood Pressure
Hiking Makes You Happier and Can Lower Your Blood Pressure
Superfoods to reduce high blood pressure
High Blood Pressure and the Elderly
Normal Blood Pressure vs Ideal Blood Pressure
False Blood Pressure Readings – What to Watch Out For
How to Lower Blood Pressure Naturally :)
‘Lower Your BP Naturally’: Resources
General Resources
Step 1: Drink to Your Health
Step 2: Starting the Day Right
Step 3: Back to Basics (Salt and Sunshine)
Step 4: Mediterranean Living
Step 5: Active Health and Happiness
Step 6: Veggie Heaven
Step 7: Get Fruity, Go Nutty
Step 8: Sugar'n'Spice
Step 9: Relax...
Alternative Treatment Reviews
Alistrol
Breatheasy
Christian Goodman
HBP Remedy Report
Hypercet
Zona Plus
© highbloodpressurebegone.com 2009 - present
Lower your blood pressure while remaining seated!
/\ Click On Cover Above /\
This website uses cookies (for smooth functioning and traffic analysis). By continuing to use this website, you agree to allow cookies to be placed. To find out more, see our privacy policy. OKPrivacy policy