Lisa Bos, MSc – New Brain Nutrition 2. De Visser, R.O., Robinson, E., Bond, R. (2016) Voluntary temporary abstinence from alcohol during “Dry January” and subsequent alcohol use. Health Psychology, Vol 35(3), 281-289ADHD is among the most common psychiatric disorders, with ~3% prevalence in adulthood and ~5% in childhood. ADHD has a high risk for comorbid conditions. Comorbid means that one psychiatric disorder often comes together with another psychiatric disorder. For instance mood, anxiety and substance use disorders have high comorbid rates in adults with ADHD. Adults with ADHD are also at risk for obesity and major depressive disorders and adolescent ADHD predicts adult obesity: 40% of adults with ADHD are also obese. These are worrying numbers. Many adults who have ADHD suffer from these negative consequences that come with their mental illness. There is a growing body of scientific evidence of the powerful effects of nutrition and lifestyle on mental health. Exercise is one of them.It helps prevent or manage a wide range of health problems and concerns, including stroke, obesity, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, depression, a number of types of cancer and arthritis. Besides that, regular exercise can help you sleep better, reduce stress, sharpen your mental functioning, and improve your sex life. Nearly all studies revolve around aerobic exercise which includes walking, jogging, swimming, and cycling. Recent research shows that exercise might also have a positive effect on ADHD symptoms such as improving attention and cognition1,2 Additional research is needed to explore this effect further, but we can take a look at the mechanisms underlying this effect. One of the parts in our brain that is affected by exercise is the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex plays an important role in controlling impulsive behavior and attention, and is positively influenced by exercise. Furthermore, dopamine and norepinephrine play an important role in attention regulation. Ritalin, among one of the most well-known medication for ADHD, also increases levels of dopamine. When you exercise regularly, the basis levels of dopamine and norepinephrine rise, and even new dopamine receptors are created. These dopamine levels are also the reason why exercise therapy can be effective for people suffering from depression: low levels of dopamine are a predictor of depressive symptoms. Taken together: people with ADHD are at risk for obesity and depression. Exercise has a positive influence on obesity, depression and ADHD. Wouldn’t it be great if we could treat people with ADHD with an exercise therapy? The PROUD-study is currently studying the prevention of depressive symptoms, obesity and the improvement of general health in adolescents and young-adults with ADHD. PROUD establishes feasibility and effect sizes of two kinds of interventions: an aerobic exercise therapy and the effects of a bright light therapy. Participants follow a 10 week exercise intervention in which they train three days a week: one day of only aerobic activities (20-40 min) and in two of these days, muscle-strengthening and aerobic activities (35 – 60 min). An app guides them through the exercises, and the intensity and duration of these exercises increase gradually. During a 24 week course changes in mood, condition, ADHD symptoms and body composition are measured. I am really looking forward to the results of the effectiveness of this intervention in adolescents and adults with ADHD. It is great that this study tries to alter a lifestyle instead of temporarily symptom-reducing options. A healthy life is a happy life! For more information about the PROUD-study see www.adhd-beweging-lichttherapie.nl (only in Dutch) or contact the researchers via proud@karakter.com. For more information about a healthy lifestyle and the positive effects on mental health, see our other blogs at https://newbrainnutrition.com/ References
Kamp CF, Sperlich B, Holmberg HC (2014). Exercise reduces the symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and improves social behaviour, motor skills, strength and neuropsychological parameters. Acta Paediatrica, 103, 709-714.
Choi JW, Han DH, Kang KD, Jung HY, Renshaw, PF (2015). Aerobic exercise and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: brain research. Med Sci Sports Exerc, 47, 33-39.
info@newbrainnutrition.com
Mental Health
Healthy Nutrition
Research Updates
Learn Online
Professional Learning CME
Public Courses
Blog
About
Partners
Press
Intranet
Terms and Conditions GDPR
Privacy Policy GDPR
Change Request GDPR
Contact
Subscribe
Posts By: Lisa Bos, MSc
The Beneficial Effects of “Dry January” (or any other month).
by Lisa Bos, MSc - February 23, 2019
Dry January, a phenomenon that started in Scandinavia and has now gained more popularity in other parts of Europe. During “Dry January” people challenge themselves to temporary abstinence from alcohol for one month, in order to detox their bodies after the holiday season. The media states that one-month alcohol abstinence has a beneficial effect on your sleep pattern, alertness, mood, weight, skin, and your liver. Because I am currently participating in Dry January I was wondering if the results of alcohol abstinence for a short period of time are studied, and what these results might be.
Before we can understand what beneficial effects a month without alcohol can have, we need to know what alcohol does to our body. Alcohol has, amongst other things, an influence on our liver and on our mental health. When we consume alcohol, a part of the brain that is related to reward becomes active: the striatum. Also, dopamine is released which has an influence on feelings of reward and the control of impulsive behaviour. While the striatum is activated, the prefrontal cortex is inhibited which regulates impulses and emotion regulation.
When we consume an alcoholic beverage, the alcohol is absorbed in our blood which in turn is filtered by our liver. Alcohol damages the liver by stimulating the liver cells, which causes them to die. This leads to scarring of liver cells (fibrosis) and to shrinkage of the liver itself (cirrose). People with liver cirrose have a higher chance of developing liver cancer. The positive part of this story is the self-recovery function of our liver. Your liver can recover for up to 70% if you put aside alcohol for at least one month.
Researchers from the RadboudUMC1 in Nijmegen (2017) and the University of Sussex2 (2015) studied voluntarily temporary abstinence from alcohol to gain more insight in the effects of alcohol abstinence and alcohol use after Dry January and to gain more insight in the possibility of health-related benefits.
After going for a month without alcohol, 62% of the people reported better sleep and more energy2 and 57% had more concentration. Also, alertness was tested: participants who drank alcohol showed more impulsivity and were, therefore, quicker, but made more mistakes. After Dry January these participants reacted slightly slower but more accurate.
Also, various health-related benefits were reported: less liver cells were stimulated (2) or died (1), 54% had better skin and 70% had generally improved health (2). Also a reduction in belly fat was measured (1), this can be explained by the process in which the body breaks down fat cells, this process is slowed down by alcohol. Besides, the lowering of belly fat is also a result of a reduction of calorie intake (one glass of wine, for instance, has 82 kcal). Another quite important benefit: 88% of the participants saved money (2).
Before these studies, there was some negative criticism against Dry January. Professionals were scared that people would experience a rebound effect after the dry month, resulting in more alcohol consumption. However, the results reveal the opposite: one month of alcohol abstinence led to less alcohol consumption in the following six months (2). Saying “No” to alcohol for a month created an awareness about the effects of alcohol and the participants gained insight into their drinking behaviour (2).
Taken together it seems that quitting alcohol, even for a short period of time, has lots of beneficial effects. No reason to not try a dry month this year!
REFERENCES
1. Munsterman, I. Tjwa, E., Schellekens A. (2017). “Lever rust uit van een maand niet drinken”. https://dekennisvannu.nl/site/special/Een-maand-zonder-alcohol/82
2. De Visser, R.O., Robinson, E., Bond, R. (2016) Voluntary temporary abstinence from alcohol during “Dry January” and subsequent alcohol use. Health Psychology, Vol 35(3), 281-289
Please share and like us:
in Physical Health alcohol abstinence, body detox, dry January	0
ADHD and Exercise
by Lisa Bos, MSc - November 30, 2018
ADHD is among the most common psychiatric disorders, with ~3% prevalence in adulthood and ~5% in childhood. ADHD has a high risk for comorbid conditions. Comorbid means that one psychiatric disorder often comes together with another psychiatric disorder. For instance mood, anxiety and substance use disorders have high comorbid rates in adults with ADHD.
Adults with ADHD are also at risk for obesity and major depressive disorders and adolescent ADHD predicts adult obesity: 40% of adults with ADHD are also obese. These are worrying numbers. Many adults who have ADHD suffer from these negative consequences that come with their mental illness.
There is a growing body of scientific evidence of the powerful effects of nutrition and lifestyle on mental health. Exercise is one of them.It helps prevent or manage a wide range of health problems and concerns, including stroke, obesity, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, depression, a number of types of cancer and arthritis. Besides that, regular exercise can help you sleep better, reduce stress, sharpen your mental functioning, and improve your sex life. Nearly all studies revolve around aerobic exercise which includes walking, jogging, swimming, and cycling.
Recent research shows that exercise might also have a positive effect on ADHD symptoms such as improving attention and cognition1,2 Additional research is needed to explore this effect further, but we can take a look at the mechanisms underlying this effect.
One of the parts in our brain that is affected by exercise is the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex plays an important role in controlling impulsive behavior and attention, and is positively influenced by exercise. Furthermore, dopamine and norepinephrine play an important role in attention regulation. Ritalin, among one of the most well-known medication for ADHD, also increases levels of dopamine.
When you exercise regularly, the basis levels of dopamine and norepinephrine rise, and even new dopamine receptors are created. These dopamine levels are also the reason why exercise therapy can be effective for people suffering from depression: low levels of dopamine are a predictor of depressive symptoms.
Taken together: people with ADHD are at risk for obesity and depression. Exercise has a positive influence on obesity, depression and ADHD. Wouldn’t it be great if we could treat people with ADHD with an exercise therapy?
The PROUD-study is currently studying the prevention of depressive symptoms, obesity and the improvement of general health in adolescents and young-adults with ADHD. PROUD establishes feasibility and effect sizes of two kinds of interventions: an aerobic exercise therapy and the effects of a bright light therapy.
Participants follow a 10 week exercise intervention in which they train three days a week: one day of only aerobic activities (20-40 min) and in two of these days, muscle-strengthening and aerobic activities (35 – 60 min). An app guides them through the exercises, and the intensity and duration of these exercises increase gradually. During a 24 week course changes in mood, condition, ADHD symptoms and body composition are measured.
I am really looking forward to the results of the effectiveness of this intervention in adolescents and adults with ADHD. It is great that this study tries to alter a lifestyle instead of temporarily symptom-reducing options. A healthy life is a happy life!
For more information about the PROUD-study see www.adhd-beweging-lichttherapie.nl (only in Dutch) or contact the researchers via proud@karakter.com. For more information about a healthy lifestyle and the positive effects on mental health, see our other blogs at https://newbrainnutrition.com/
References
Kamp CF, Sperlich B, Holmberg HC (2014). Exercise reduces the symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and improves social behaviour, motor skills, strength and neuropsychological parameters. Acta Paediatrica, 103, 709-714.
Choi JW, Han DH, Kang KD, Jung HY, Renshaw, PF (2015). Aerobic exercise and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: brain research. Med Sci Sports Exerc, 47, 33-39.
Please share and like us:
in ADHD, Clinical Trial, Depression, Mental Health, Obesity adhd, depression, exercise, light therapy, obesity	0
Search
Search
Recent Posts
A 3-Minute Pitch on Gut Bacteria and ADHD April 18, 2019
ADHD & Dietary Treatments April 14, 2019
How Does ADHD Medication Change Your Appetite? April 13, 2019
Can Smoking Cessation Increase Mental Well-Being? March 31, 2019
How ADHD and Unhealthy Dietary Intake are Genetically Related March 24, 2019
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Gut Microbiota March 16, 2019
Insulin Resistance at a Young Age Predicts Metabolic Problems Later in Life March 16, 2019
What is Changing Your Gut Microbiota March 5, 2019
Nutritional Diversity Tip Sheet March 3, 2019
The Gut-Brain Axis: An Important Key to Your Health March 3, 2019
Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
August 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
Categories
Addiction
ADHD
Aggression
Alheimer's
Animal models
Anxiety
Bipolar Disorder
Brain Function
Brain Gut Axis
Clinical Trial
Compulsivity
Crohn's Disease
Depression
Digestion
Early Life Nutrition
Elimination Diet
Fatty Foods
Fecal samples
Genetics
GI Symptoms
Hyperactivity
Impulsivity
Inflammation
Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)
Mediterranean diet
Mental Health
Mental Illness
Microbiota
Micronutrients
Nutrition
Nutritional programming
Obesity
Panic disorder
Physical Health
Physical Illness
Prebiotics
Probiotics
Protein
Psychobiotics
Schizophrenia
Scientific Research
Stress
Sugary foods
Uncategorized
Vitamins
Your Environment
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 728018.
New Brain Nutrition is a project and brand of Eat2BeNice, a consortium of 18 European University Hospitals throughout the continent.
Partners:
You may log in here to our Intranet website with your authorized user name and password:
Powered by Eat2BeNice. All worldwide rights reserved. 2019
Mental Health
Healthy Nutrition
Research Updates
Learn Online
Blog
About
Subscribe
Enjoy this page? Please spread the word :)
https://newbrainnutrition.com/author/lisabos">
Follow
Important!
Our purpose is to educate and inform you. To make this website more useful on your next visit, we use "cookies" which help us track your interests and activities. By continuing to browse this site you agree to our use of "cookies."
This message will disappear once you click "OK."
OK