Treatments for Achilles Tendonitis.
Achilles Injuries
Achilles Tendon Anatomy
Achilles Tendinopathy
Strained Tendon
Acute Tendonitis
Chronic Tendonitis
Achilles Tendonosis
Achilles Tenosynovitis
Achilles Tendon Rupture
Midpoint and Insertional Achilles Tendonitis
Achilles Bursitis
Haglunds Syndrome
Tennis Leg - Calf Muscle Injury/Strain
Achilles Tendon Sprain or Strain?
PAIN - Back of Heel
Diagnosing Achilles Tendon Injuries
Treating Achilles Tendon Injuries
More Facts About Achilles Tendonitis:
The Achilles tendon does not have a rich blood supply. Blood supply is weakest at a point between 2 and 6 cm above its insertion into the calcaneus (heel bone).
Ignoring pain in the Achilles tendon (ie. "running through the pain") is the biggest cause of chronic Achilles tendonitis.
For cyclists, initial Achilles tendon stress is often caused by having a low saddle height. This low saddle height can result in excessive dorsiflexion of the foot, which stresses the Achilles tendon.
The Achilles tendon is the connection between the heel and the most powerful muscle group in the body.
Tennis and soccer players over 40 are the most frequent sufferers of tennis leg (calf muscle strain).
Sudden increases in running and or active sprinting sports can cause Achilles tendonitis.
Excessive running up and down hills can aggravate the Achilles tendon.
Stiff shoe soles at the ball of the foot will increase Achilles tendon strain.
Excessive heel shock absorption can overstretch the Achilles tendon.
Tight hamstrings and/or tight calf muscles create excess strain on the Achilles tendon.
For triatheletes, the most common cause of injuries to the Achilles tendon is overpronation, inflexibility, or lack of strength.
Immobility, due to an Achilles injury, may result in a contracted Achilles tendon and an increased amount of scar tissue.
Achilles Injury Treatments
How to Treat Your Achilles Tendon Injury
Yes, your Achilles tendon is the strongest tendon in your body - it is designed to handle much of the force from each step you take. Now start to consider the additional supreme forces that come from running, jumping or just carring something extremely heavy. You are asking the achilles bear the brunt of the forces which can be extreme. For many athletes and weekend warriors, this is enough to cause significant tendon damage; consider further that as we age tissues begin to break down to the point where the achilles can no longer handle the forces that it was once able to.
It is important to treat Achilles tendon injuries as soon as possible, as any activity or strain you put on your tendon can re-injure it further. Though the pain, discomfort, and inconvenience of an Achilles condition can be overwhelming, it is possible to overcome it. The more diligent you are with your treatment and rehabilitation, the faster you will see successful results.
Most doctors, surgeons and orthopedic specialists will recommend conservative treatment methods for Achilles Tendonitis injuries before even considering surgery. It is generally understood by doctors and surgeons, that surgery will introduce more scar tissue into the any already damaged tissue. This added scar tissue will be problematic, requiring more physical therapy and conservative treatment options post-surgery. If not dealt with properly, your tendonitis injury could end up in worse condition than before the surgery! This is why surgery is only performed as a last resort.
Some conservative treatment methods recommended include:
Rest - This is important for initial recovery for both Midpoint and Insertional Achilles Tendonitis. This can be difficult when you have to carry on with daily activities, but resting and elevating your foot whenever you can is recommended. During your recovery you will probably have to modify or avoid the activities that put stress on your Achilles tendon until your pain and inflammation settles. Too much rest can also be harmful to achilles injuries because ankle joint immobility can actually cause stiffening in the joint. This is why rest should be used when reducing initial pain and swelling, but should not be considered for more long-term conservative treatment.
Avoid Activities that Caused Your Injury - While resting your injury it's also important to avoid all activities that may have caused your tissue damage (especially any repetitive movement). Continuing on with regular activities will not only make your injury worse.
Use a Cold Compress or Ice Pack - Cold is very effective at reducing pain and inflammation - use at the onset of the injury and during flareups.
Use Deep Tissue Regeneration Therapy (DTR Therapy) - You can use your own blood flow to maximize your rehabilitation, maintain healthy blood flow to your achilles and heel, decrease recovery time, and boost the bodys healing rate. Promoting blood flow to your achilles will help to minimize the growth of scar tissue, increase flexibility and help prevent atrophy.
Physical Therapy - Surgery is usually the last resort. This means doctors or surgeons typically won't perform a surgery until they feel that their patient has put effort into treating their injury with conservative treatment methods. This may include up to 4 to 6 months of physical therapy. If you haven't experienced any improvement in your condition during that time then surgery may be considered. Agressive physical therapy approaches will focus on forced or manual manipulation of the achilles - this means your physical therapists will be trying to move your achilles past the point of comfort as they strive to increase range of motion and prevent further atrophy. This can be painful and end up making your injury worse if not done correctly. (reference: 1)
Stretching - Stretching your ankle in physical therapy and at home will help you to regain your range of motion much faster than not stretching at all. Stretching in many ways is key to maintaining good Range of Motion (ROM) in the ankle, and stretching can be made much easier with use of a TShellz Wrap before to warm up soft tissue, and a Cold Compress or Ice Pack treatment after to prevent any return of swelling and inflammation.
Some Treatment Methods can be Risky
In some cases, physicians may recommend drugs or medications like NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflamatory drugs) to manage pain and inflammation. Alternative medications like cortisone injections are NOT advised for any type of Achilles Tendon injury or condition. This is because there is an increased risk of rupture of the tendon following a cortisone injection.
"Medical evidence shows that cortisone shots can damage the surrounding tissue, fray the Achilles tendon, and even trigger a rupture. Most side effects are temporary, but skin weakening (atrophy) and lightening of the skin (depigmentation) can be permanent." (reference: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
For acute (new or recent) Achilles tendon tears that have the ability to heal on their own - your doctor may even cast your foot in a toe pointed position (in something called a "hanging enquinus cast") or in a removable brace/splint. A removable splint can be very helpful to prepare you for physical therapy sessions and mobility exercises.
Prolonged use of a cast, removable splint, or long-term rest (restricted movement) without proper exercise or stretching can make your Achilles tendon injury worse. If your Achilles tendon remains completely immobilized and at constant rest, the ends of the Achilles tendon (where it attaches to bone or other muscles) will begin to fill in with massive amounts of scar tissue as part of the healing process. You may also have on-going symptoms of pain, swelling and inflammation, and even poor blood flow circulation.
Lack of proper blood flow and growth of scar tissue will increase the natural length of the tendon and tighten the tissue, changing the flexibility between your ankle and foot. Your ability to push off with your foot in certain activities such as running, jumping, or going up and down stairs all become compromised. You are also at an increased risk of re-rupture of the tendon, if the initial injury was large and required surgery in the first place.
Achilles Supports and Exercises
Your doctor may encourage you to use a splint or brace. This will gently add compression to the muscles in the lower leg and support the tendons in the achilles and ankle. Most physicians caution you in not wearing a brace too frequently, as soft tissue stretching and healing can be compromised. In some cases, prolonged use of a brace may cause increased secondary conditons such as pinched nerves and interruption to the blood flow to the joint.
Restoring Flexibility and Strength in the Lower Leg
Physical Therapy is a very helpful way to decrease pain in the soft tissue, restore strength to atrophied muscles and improve ankle, heel and leg strength and mobility. Your physical therapist will start you on a program will be tailored for your achilles tendon injury.
Once your pain starts to reduce, a physical therapist will also set up an individualized strengthening and stretching exercise program for you to perform at home or in the gym.
This will be based on your needs and abilities, and will help you return to performing your normal routines.
A trained physical therapist will help to ensure your rehabilitation process is effective. For best, long term results use the T•Shellz Wrap® before undergoing physical therapy to gain residual elongation and extensibility of collagen tissue. (reference: Chapter 9 of "Therapeutic Heat and Cold", 4th edition [amazon.com link] Ed. Justus F. Lehmann, M.D., Williams, and Wilkin)
As you start to return to your activities, it is good to gauge how well you are using your achilles in these activities to determine if you can decrease stress on the injured tissue. This may involve changing your technique for sports to reduce the singular stresses on the recovering tendon.
You may also need to change equipment you use at your job or at home to help you perform tasks more effectively and safely. More frequent short breaks (and even stretches) at work are usually very helpful, as this allows your body a chance to relax and take some strain off your stressed soft tissue.
It is important to speak with a medical professional or occupational therapist to get more information about proper equipment, procedures and tools necessary for the specific activity you participate in or the office/work setting you work in during your normal daily life.
Lifelong Health
The best way to manage the health of your body is to understand the tools for a healthy lifestyle. Using proven conservative treatments, alternative therapies, protection, and self-management (diet, rest, exercise), you can proactively manage your own recovery. Your lifelong health depends on your commitment to living a healthy and safe lifestyle.
You may have to modify some of your activities or movements during your recovery to ensure the long term health of your achilles. Even if you are already feeling less pain and greater mobility, you need to continue with your treatment plan. Until your ankle is healed, you are still at risk for further damage. Keep in mind, the longer you wait to treat your tendon injury, the greater the potential for re-injury or for permanent damage to occur.
Most often, more serious achilles injuries are developed after ignoring your body's warning signs. Masking pain and immobility or continuing strenuous repetitive movements cause micro tears to form in your tendons. If your body is not given a chance to heal, scar tissue will form. This weak, inflexible tissue will cause chronic tendonosis symptoms that include constant pain and functional restriction.
Most cases of minor achilles injuries are completely treatable by conservative therapies. If you want to continue to enjoy your activities, sports, or have a physically demanding job, committing yourself to a conservative treatment routine, as soon as possible, will increase your chances of a full recovery.
The more committed you are to your recovery, the faster you can return to your active lifestyle free from pain and immobility.
Non-surgical Achilles Treatments
Your initial treatment should involve decreasing any swelling, relieving any pain and stress on the elbow, correcting any bio-mechanical dysfunction, and then restoring strength and mobility to your injured achilles. It's also very important to follow any instructions you receive from your physician.
Conservative Treatment Stage 1: Reduce The Initial Inflammation
Stage 1: If the injury is very recent (acute) - use a good quality cold pack and Arnica Pain Relief Cream. If the injury has been going on for awhile, then skip to Stage 2 below.
If you are experiencing pain and swelling in the very early stages of the injury (first 48 to 72 hours), the first step in a conservative treatment protocol would be to focus on reducing the discomfort by applying a quality cold pack to the injured achilles along with a high quality pain relief cream such as our Arnica Infusion Cream.
Not only will you use your cold pack for the first 48 to 72 hours after the injury, but you should also use it during other stages of the healing process. Some examples include...
after any activity that stresses the achilles in a moderate way. It is wise to quickly apply cold therapy to not only reduce the pain, but to also minimize tissue damage that may have occurred during the prior event.
If you have a job that requires you to place some demands on your injured achilles/ankle. If that is the case, use cold therapy immediately following work and if the opportunity allows - use it for 15 to 20 minutes during lunch or another break time.
If you are in a post-operative situation where cold compression therapy would be utilized heavily for at least the first few weeks following the procedure. Similarly, if you are scheduled for upcoming surgery, then you will need a high quality cold therapy device to use.
Having a Cold Compress or Ice Pack available at home to use if and when the need arises is helpful. Many of you already do so.
However, too many people over-focus on cold therapy while ignoring the most critical aspect to healing - nourishing the injured tissues with a healthy supply of blood flow needed to repair and rebuild the injured tissues.
This leads to the most important recommendation...
Stage 2: Focus on Increasing Blood Flow To The Injured Tissue - As This is The ONLY Way It Will Heal For the Long-Term
Even though the concept is simple, improving blood flow to injured tissues can be difficult. When the injury is ankle related, the challenges are even greater. Traditional methods require your muscle to move to promote blood flow (exercise), but that same motion that promotes blood flow can at times lead to making your pain and condition worse.
Have you reinjured your achilles by returning to work too quickly?
How many times in the past have you aggravated your lower leg just trying to perform basic tasks around the home?
Is your debilitated heel/achilles preventing you from work or activities you love to do?
Most people we deal with tell us these scenarios have happened to them many times in the past. Perhaps it has already happened to you.
Promoting blood flow within a muscle or soft tissue injury to help the body heal itself is a concept that has been utilized for centuries. This is where the focus has to be if you are seeking long-term improvement.
Oxygen and nutrients, carried within the blood, are critical for the body to heal itself. Without proper blood flow, recovering from an injury or condition will be delayed...sometimes for a very long period of time.
The real challenge is how do you promote blood flow to the tendon without causing further injury? This goal is further complicated by the fact the achilles (and muscles controlling the ankle joint) are involved in the majority of the physical movements we perform each day.
When people think blood flow beyond exercise, they instantly think "heating pad". Unfortunately, many individuals make the mistake in believing that a simple heating pad or microwavable gel packs will provide the blood flow needed to heal injured tissues. Nothing could be further from the truth.
To begin with, heating pads and warmed gel packs work on conduction. The heat they generate has to be forced through multiple layers of skin and fatty tissues. With each layer of skin the heat passes through, there is a corresponding energy loss because that heat is absorbing into each layer it passes through- the skin is an excellent insulator! Your body responds to this heat by increasing the blood flow near your skins surface (not in your injured tissue) to dissipate the heat and it does so quite effectively.
By the time what little heat reaches below the skin, sub-dermal layer and fat layer into the targeted area (the dense, injured tissues), very little energy remains and this does not effectively enhance blood flow. With little blood flow reaching these injured tissues - healing just doesn't happen.
The heating pad may feel comforting when on the body, but that is because the warmth is absorbing into the skin. Moist heat has been believed to be more effective at warming internal tissues versus dry heat, because it is believed that water transfers heat more quickly than through air. Clinical studies do not support that popular belief.
When you are using a heating pad, all that you are really accomplishing is warming of the skin. The unintended consequence is that you draw blood flow AWAY from the targeted tissues (the injured ones deeper in the body) and direct the blood flow to the surface of the body.
Warming the skin will not significantly contribute to healing of muscles, tendons, ligaments, cartilage, or any other tissues.
So If A Heating Pad Is Not The Answer, What Is?
In order to effectively stimulate blood flow to the dense tissue deep within the body, an energy based on an electromagnetic principle (diathermy) is needed. In essence, this is a conversion energy vs a conductive heat (like the heating pad example above - that is conductive heat).
Electromagnetic energy waves are not conductive heat waves - they are a much longer wavelength and hence, penetrate deep into the body. They are very safe and very effective as research over decades has shown. The F.D.A recognizes this as fact.
When these energy waves are emitted,they penetrate right through your skin and fat layers until they are absorbed by tissue high in protein. This means ligaments, muscles, cartilage, tendons and bone. Once they reach the targeted areas, they are absorbed and quickly converted into thermal energy... right at the location of the injury.
This results in relaxation of the vessel walls. The vessels then gently expand, allowing for more nutrient rich blood flow along with extra oxygen and antibodies to reach the damaged tissues. Plus, the enhanced blood flow helps in flushing cell waste and fluid build-up from the injury site - further enhancing the ability of the body to heal.
As mentioned above, standard heating pads and heated gel packs accomplish the exact opposite of your goals. They direct blood flow to the skin, not to the injured muscles and soft tissues you are trying to heal.
Electromagnetic energy is a form of energy will easily penetrate through clothing, skin, and fatty tissues... directly into your injured muscles and soft tissues within the achilles and ankle. After the energy absorbs into the achilles, the metabolic response then kick starts the repair and rebuilding process.
More blood now begins to flow effectively to the injured tissues deep within the body. The injured tissue needs the extra blood flow to heal as it is through the blood the body carries the oxygen, nutrients, and antibodies needed for proper and long-term healing.
While the concept of electromagnetic energy is slowly catching on in North America, the truth is, it is a technology that has been utilized in other societies for decades. Over the past 30 years, researchers in Japan and China have completed extensive studies on the use of the modality and their findings have been impressive. In addition, success has been reported in studies from countries such as Sweden and Germany.
Research is continuing and soon, much of North America will know what the Far East and Europe has known for a long time; electromagnetic energy provides a wide range of health benefits for those not only suffering from achilles injuries, but for many other soft tissue ailments (plantar fasciitis, bursitis, tendinitis, Tenosynovitis, frozen shoulder, golfer's elbow, tennis elbow, hamstring strain etc.) as well.
Now, on to recommendation number two in the journey to heal your injured achilles...
The Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® - Heal Your Achilles For The Long Term
The best option we came across in our research to accomplish true healing of achilles injuries is the Achilles T•Shellz Wrap®. Use of this device results in a dramatic increase in blood flow to the injured tissues located deeper within the body - all in a non-invasive manner.
Have you seen what happens when you add water to a flower wilted from drought? In essence, your injured achilles is much like a "wilted" flower; your body wants to heal its injury, but needs lots of nutrients to do it. Blood brings new life to your cells by delivering healing nutrients and oxygen that are vital to your tissue. In addition, the blood carries away toxins and cellular waste cleaning the area and healing it faster. Without a good supply of blood, your achilles simply won't heal properly.
Using a T•Shellz Wrap® will not expose you to the risk of causing further harm to soft tissue like you can when using rigorous exercise. The Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® accomplishes the goal of enhanced blood flow without the need for intensive exercise and as such reduces your risk of re-injury.
T•Shellz Wrap® = Accelerated Healing Power for Your Achilles Injury
The Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® is based on the scientifically validated principle of Electromagnetic energy as we discussed previously. This form of treatment is safe and effective as shown in numerous studies which can be referenced through the National Library of Medicine. Professional athletes and those in the medical field have been users of the technology for decades - it really hasn't been until recently that companies like ours introduced the treatment devices to the home user.
Electromagnetic energy from the T•Shellz Wrap® does not absorb into the skin - it absorbs directly into the damaged muscle and soft tissue (as a result, you will not feel the same level of heat on the skin versus a heating pad). The longer wavelength provides the electromagnetic energy wrap with the capability of penetrating deep into the body (well over two and a half inches).
EM energy emitted from the T•Shellz Wrap® is absorbed by high protein tissue (muscle, tendon, ligament, cartilage) and is converted into Kinetic energy - much of this energy being released as heat. Overall, EM energy will warm soft tissues, improve blood circulation, and boost metabolism and enzyme activity. In stimulating localized blood flow to damaged soft tissue, you provide needed oxygen, nutrients, and antibodies to regenerate new, healthy collagen. In addition, you will experience a clearing of toxins and excess fluid build up from the injury site. Over the intermediate term, this helps to reduce incidents of swelling as trapped fluids will be whisked away - reducing pressure on blood vessels.
Using the T•Shellz Wrap® is truly a unique experience. Within moments of applying a treatment to your injured achilles, you can feel the sensation due to the increase in blood flow deep within the area. During a treatment, and for quite some time after you finish, the treated area will feel relaxed and warm. It's a very soothing sensation and extremely effective. This is especially important because the insertion point of the Achilles tendon receives very little blood flow to begin with.
Who Should Use the T•Shellz Wrap®
We recommend the use of a T•Shellz Wrap®:
If you have injured your achilles, lower leg or other soft tissue in the back of your ankle, then you would find the Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® to be a great home treatment tool.
If you are dealing with conditions affecting your range of motion such as impingement or even arthritis.
If you have a chronic achilles condition that has lasted for years- this device will help start the rebuilding process and help strengthen the surrounding and supporting tissues. Many of our past clients had suffered for years, then were completely amazed at the results only after a few months of treatments.
If you are still working with an injured achilles, the T•Shellz Wrap® will help relax injured soft tissue prior to work and after a day at the job.
If you are still trying to enjoy your favorite activities such as gardening, tennis, golf, etc - use the T•Shellz Wrap® prior to activity to help reduce chances of re-injuring or re-aggravating those targeted tissues.
If you are suffering from bursitis and want to treat the major source of it (secondary damage to the muscle and tendon surrounding the bursa sac). Through overuse or degenerative changes in the lower leg, the muscle and tendons surrounding the bursa sacs will tighten and constrict. When they do, they place pressure on the bursa, causing it to become irritated. Applying a soothing and deep penetrating energy to the achilles relaxes soft tissue and takes pressure off the bursa.
If you are experiencing atrophy in your lower leg and want to reduce the chance of re-injury - this is a perfect treatment to use on a regular basis.
If you have had stem cell, PRP or prolotherapy treatments and your physician told you to get a radiant energy wrap, then this is exactly what you need.
If you have injured your achilles and need surgery, then this is exactly what you need after your surgery to help the surgically repaired tissues rebuild for long-term health. (once the surgery wound has healed)
Increased Blood Circulation = Increased Healing Rate
What Else Makes the Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® So Special?
We believe the T•Shellz Wrap® to be one of the most effective treatments to stimulate blood flow to dense, injured tissues such as muscles, tendons, ligaments, and other similar tissues.
We can promise that you will receive a product that is designed to be safe and does what it is supposed to do... reduce pain (as stated in "Therapeutic Heat and Cold", 4th edition. - Ed. Justus F. Lehmann, M.D., Williams, and Wilkin) temporarily increase length & flexibility of soft tissue (as stated in "Therapeutic Heat and Cold", 4th edition. - Ed. Justus F. Lehmann, M.D., Williams, and Wilkin) and aid your body in recovering from tendon, muscle and other soft tissue injuries via enhanced blood flow.
The unit plugs into a standard wall outlet to get its power. The nice thing about the power supply is that the same unit can be used in North America and overseas as well. It has the capability to operate between 110v and 230v.
It has a special signal controller that can be set for 3 different power levels of application (3=High, 2=Medium, 1=Low). The cord is long so you can sit or lie comfortably and watch TV, read or surf the net while you're using it.
Treatments are max 30 minutes in duration and the device can be worn over clothing. This allows you to use the device at work, at home, or really anywhere you have access to an electrical outlet.
A Recap of the Benefits of the T•Shellz Wrap®..
Targeted treatment of Muscle Strain, Tendonitis, Tendinosis, Bursitis, Impingement, Arthritis, etc
It can be used before exercise to warm up your achilles to reduce the risk of injury
FDA Registered medical device for use in the home - very high quality
Greatly enhances healing of tendons, ligaments, and muscles
Increases flexibility of tissues (reducing the re-injury factor)
Carbon fiber Energy Pad is strong, lightweight, and flexible - contours very easily
It provides an accelerated healing rate that will save time and money when associated with missed work or extended therapist visits
it is an outstanding tool for post-surgery rehabilitation, getting you back to work faster
When Should I Use My TShellz Wrap During the Day?
The most common question we receive from individuals prior to purchasing is - how many times a day should I be using my T•Shellz Wraps and when should I be using them? While treatment plans will differ for each individual and their specific injury, there are general guidelines that should be adhered to.
Use a Cold Compress or Ice Pack when you are experiencing inflammation (usually after exertion or movement of the injury area).
The Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® would then be used:
Right after rising from bed in the morning (as this is when it is most stiff)
Prior to going to bed at night (to relax the achilles, allowing for better sleep)
Before you know you will be using your injured joint (going to work, driving, running, walking, etc).
Stage 3 - In Between Treatments With T•Shellz Wrap®, Apply Our New Fast Acting Pain Relief Cream Called ARNICA INFUSION
Dealing with aches and pains affecting the foot, ankle, leg, knee, hamstring, hip, back, arm, shoulder, elbow, wrist, or hand? If so, then applying the Arnica Infusion to any of these targeted areas will bring about fast relief from the pain and sore tissues. Simply apply a small amount of cream to the body and moments later, you will experience a soothing and comforting sensation over the area.
Arnica Infusion is specially designed to relieve pain due to sore muscles and joints associated with arthritis, backaches, sprains, strains, and bruises. No matter if you are dealing with an acute injury, chronic pain, or a general "flare-up" - you will experience fast relief from pain and inflammation.
This is a product that many of our current MendMeShop customers asked us to develop. So we focused our time and resources over the past few years and came up, with we believe, will be one of more effective, fast acting, topical pain relief creams on the market.
You are likely familiar with some of the standard topical agents on the market as most of our customers use them. The are mass marketed and even found in most department stores now.
Well, we are here to say that Arnica Infusion goes many steps beyond what they offer.
Made in the USA at an FDA registered manufacturing facility, you can be assured that Arnica Infusion is both safe and effective. We only source top grade ingredients while implementing strict quality control checks during every step of the production process. Expect the same high quality that MendMeShop customers have been accustomed to since we started the company in 2005.
The "Cool Blue" formula is the perfect balance between the smooth application of a cream and the effective absorbing factor of a gel. It is not too thick and not too thin - just the right texture. Best of all, it feels very nice on the skin!
Each application of Arnica Infusion feels so comforting and soothing, we are certain it will become an item you will not want to live without.
Arnica Infusion Ingredients
The Arnica Infusion formula is based on a combination of scientific research and the use of high quality ingredients. The properties within the formula were chosen for their pain relief, anti-inflammatory, and soothing qualities.
The acting ingredients within the formula include ones many of us are familiar with; along with ones that have not received a lot of publicity (only in research circles). Extensive testing resulted in a blending of ingredients that provides the most synergistic of benefits.
The notable ingredients in the Arnica Infusion formula include:
Arnica - powerful anti-inflammatory, speeds recovery, enhances circulation
Menthol - provides deep penetrating pain relief with a nice cooling sensation
Vitamin B6 - promotes normal nerve function
MSM - supports healthy connective tissues, anti-inflammatory
Ilex Leaf Extract - increases circulation, skin conditioner
Vitamin E - anti-inflammatory, enhances circulation, hydrates the skin
Aloe - anti-inflammatory properties, soothes the skin
Tea Tree - enhances penetration of ingredients
Extensive quality control procedures during the manufacturing process ensure the ingredients and final product are both safe and effective. We would not stake our reputation on anything but the best.
When Do I Apply the Arnica Infusion?
While At Work
Apply Arnica Infusion at work to help reduce acute discomfort associated with overuse of muscles and joints. No matter if you are in a physical demanding job or work within an office environment, you will be placing stress on different parts of the body and aches and pains will result.
Before Or After Work, Sports, & Activity
If you suffer from a sprained ligament, pulled muscle, strained tendon, or even bruising - apply Arnica Infusion for quick relief of the pain.
Chronic Pain Suffering
Application of Arnica Infusion can be done up to a maximum of 4 times per day on a consistent basis to help bring about relief from various pains and aches.
In-between Treatments With the T•Shellz Wraps
Follow up your T•Shellz and Cold treatments with an application of Arnica Infusion. Combine the pain relieving benefits of Arnica Infusion along with the healing benefits of the wraps to make your recovery go much more smoothly.
Do not apply Arnica Infusion within a 2 hour timespan before a T•Shellz Wrap® treatment.
Whether you decide to use the Arnica Infusion in conjunction with the T•Shellz Wrap® and other treatments - or if you decide to use the cream as a stand-alone product - you will not be disappointed with the results. We guarantee it.
A Note On OverCompensation
Since you are reading this, you probably know that serious achilles injuries do not just disappear. Over time, they usually wreak havoc on your knee and ankle due to lack of movement and over-compensation. It will also wreak havoc on your opposite achilles due to overcompensation. Recovery takes a longer time for such chronic (long term) injuries, but proper healing is essential to regain strength and get you back to the activities you enjoy.
The longer your injury endures, the greater the risk of running into serious overcompensation injuries.
To Stop Re-Injury & Reduce the Risk of a More Serious Overcompensation Injury, You Need to Heal Quickly & Completely!
Anyone in need of rapid recovery and complete healing must consider a comprehensive treatment plan that includes an effective means to minimize swelling and inflammation yet also stimulate healing and tissue elasticity. We have found no better set of tools that can be used at home than this:
What You Definitely Need to Successfully Treat
Your Achilles Tendon Injury at Home:
A Cold Compress or Ice Pack to reduce inflammation of the soft tissue injury (as soon as possible).
A Deep Tissue Therapeutic Achilles TShellz Wrap to increase Blood-flow to the injured ankle (Deep Tissue Therapy Therapy).
MendMeShop Arnica Pain Cream for temporary relief of pain due to sore muscles and joints.
An Exercise & Stretching Plan to prevent muscle atrophy and shortened tendons. A proper plan will increase elasticity and strengthen the muscles of the lower leg, ankle, knee, achilles and heel.
Conservative treatment tools just like these have been used successfully by thousands of soft tissue injury sufferers - just like you.
DTR Therapy = Greatly Increased Blood Flow in Your Injured Achilles
We believe the use of T•Shellz Wraps for effective treatment of soft tissue achilles injuries is one of the most under-utilized home treatment options available on the market today. We have thousands of customers that have tried many options out there and have been amazed at how effective and fast the TShellz Wrap treatment can heal soft tissue injuries.
Not only does the incorporation of conservative treatments (such as the use of a Cold Compress or Ice Pack and the Achilles T•Shellz Wrap®) accelerate the healing process, but it helps to prevent long term complications. Pain, lack of mobility, tendinosis, or a complete tendon rupture are some of the more common long term complications that can occur when achilles tendinitis, tendon tears, and other injuries go untreated. By treating your achilles with these treatments, scar tissue becomes softer and the tendons, ligaments and other soft tissue become stronger reducing the risk of chronic problems in the future.
Click HERE to Go To Our Online Store If you have questions, call our office at 1-866-237-9608 (toll free continental US).
Scar Tissue
During the healing process and especially in surgery, scar tissue can build on injured soft tissue. This scar tissue can cause tendons, muscles, and bursa to thicken, increasing the chance of impingements.
In addition, scar tissue can bind the tendons, muscles and ligaments together limiting the movement of these tendons and ligaments that were once elastic and allowed the ankle its large range of motion. As a result, movement of the entire joint is limited making it difficult to walk without a limp or do basic tasks such as climb stairs. If left untreated, the ankle may 'freeze' further, making movement even more problematic. At the very least, scar tissue leaves your tendon weaker than a healthy tendon, leaving your achilles at greater risk of further deterioration and possible tearing.
Once the inflammation of your achilles injury has been reduced, nourishing and strengthening the tendon tissue and surrounding area is recommended. Using the T•Shellz Wrap® will speed your recovery and assist your own blody in healing your achilles more completely, preparing it for strengthening exercises. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist to find out which exercises are appropriate for your situation and if the T•Shellz Wrap® is right for you.
Improved blood flow gained via use of the Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® whisks away dead cells and toxins that have built up from the injury. When you stop moving your ankle due to achilles pain, your muscles and other tissue can become weaker and dead cells and toxins in the area can cause further tissue deterioration - this can lead to atrophy (tightening, shortened calf muscles, for example). By clearing the area of toxins and increasing the amount of oxygen and nutrients to your muscle and other tissue, the risk of atrophy (muscle weakness and/or deterioration) is greatly reduced. Keeping your lower leg and ankle as healthy as possible throughout the healing process will allow you to improve strength again once your pain has gone and your injury has healed.
During your recovery, you may have to modify and/or eliminate any activities that cause pain or discomfort in your lower leg until your pain and inflammation settle, and you gain more mobility and strength. The more diligent you are with your treatment and rehabilitation, the faster you will see successful results!
Remember: We recommend that you consult your doctor and/or physiotherapist before using any of our outstanding products, to make sure they're right for you and your condition.
Physical Therapy
Physical therapy is a beneficial way to help decrease pain in the soft tissues, restore atrophied muscles and improve ankle strength and mobility. The type of physical therapy and the duration will be dependent on your injury.
Once your pain starts to diminish, a physiotherapist can set up an individualized achilles strengthening and stretching exercise program for you to perform at home or in the gym. This will be based on your needs and abilities, and will help you return to performing your normal routines.
Individuals will often try stretching and leg workouts on their own, to try and build up their strength. However, in doing so, they can do more damage to their achilles. It is extremely important to strengthen your muscles properly, as they may have weakened during the period of non-use. A trained therapist will help to ensure your rehabilitation process is effective. For fast and effective results, use a Cold Compress or Ice Pack and an Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® in conjunction with physical therapy and an exercise program.
Anti-Inflammatory Medication
NSAIDs (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) can be used if required to help manage your pain and inflammation. However, these aren't recommended for long term use, as they can cause gastrointestinal difficulties. Some health professionals have also recommended natural supplements such as glucosamine, MSM or hyaluronic acid to help strengthen the injured tissue.
The use of a Cold Compress or Ice Pack can greatly reduce, if not eliminate, the need for NSAIDs. Cold therapy is a natural, less harmful way to reduce your pain and inflammation.
If pain and inflammation persist, you can see your physician to investigate cortisone/steroid injections or topical medications, which may help reduce swelling and inflammation. Cortisone/steroid injections can deteriorate tissue if used frequently and recent studies have shown that cortisone injections can cause more negative harm than good. At times it is quite helpful though, and your physician will determine whether a steroid injection is worthwhile on a case-by-case basis.
Our Devices Are Not Only Used To Help Heal Active Injuries - They Can Also Be Used Post-Operative to Accelerate Healing
Doctors and Surgeons are always improving the techniques used in surgery, and results from surgery now are much more positive than they were in the past. However, all surgeries introduce scar tissue, and recovery from surgery is better than ever but often disappointing when it comes to full recovery expectations.
If you do wind up getting surgery, know that rehabilitation at-home while attending regular physical therapy or doctor appointments is vital for your overall recovery.
Consistent exercise and conservative treatment on a daily basis during your rehabilitation while working with your doctor or physical therapist is key. This is why you should seriously consider maximizing your recovery by using the T•Shellz Wrap® at home once you are approved for physical therapy.
The more consistent you work at enhancing blood flow to surgically repaired soft tissue, the more consistent the healing process will be. Nourishing the tissues will more oxygen and nutrients (which are carried through the blood stream) will give the body a better ability to produce new, healthy collagen. In effect, you will help the body produce stronger tissues while potentially reducing the number of setbacks that can occur following surgical procedures.
Click HERE to Go To Our Online Store We take all major credit cards and Paypal.
If you have questions, call our office at 1-866-237-9608 (toll free continental US).
We are currently offering FREE SHIPPING and a 60 day trial period on all our Wraps.
The Key Point To Keep in Mind When Treating Your Injury
Make Sure That Complete Healing is Your #1 Goal
We all know that if the injury was healed, the pain would go away but what about the opposite situation? If the pain is gone, does that mean the injury is better? Unfortunately, this is not always true.
Too many people only focus on suppressing pain symptoms while providing less attention to the true healing aspects of the body. Experiencing less pain, while obviously a good short-term goal, never equates to underlying healing. Scar tissue can remain for months after one gets to a point of being relatively pain-free. However, as long the weak and brittle scar tissue remains, you are susceptible to re-injury or re-aggravation. Certain motions or movements can cause the weaker tissue to easily tear - resulting in some reversal of the recovery up until that point.
This is why we recommend for people to continue with their doctor or therapist recommended exercises and to continue with mild treatments of the T•Shellz Wrap® for a period of time - to better ensure complete healing.
Ongoing treatments to enhance circulation will soothe, relax and promote healing of your damaged lower leg muscles and tendons. Achilles T•Shellz treatments will also allow your soft tissue to extend further due to the deep warming sensation created by the enhanced circulation to the treatment area. The more extensibile your tissues are, the less likely they are to strain or sprain.
The Achilles T•Shellz Wrap® is a highly effective therapy tool for people suffering from soft tissue injuries in the lower leg and ankle - such as a tear in your muscle, tendon or other soft tissue, strain, Tendonitis, tendinopathy, tendinosis, impingements, instability, calf muscle spasms, bursitis, capsulitis, pain associated with trigger points, scar tissue, and arthritis.
To really deal with a injury, you have to know the injury is - so get to the doctor and make sure you know what the issue is.
Resting Your Achilles and Ankle Will Help, But Only Temporarily
People tell us all the time, "I was told that if I stay off my feet for a few weeks, my pain will disappear for good."
The truth is, pain is usually a culmination of numerous factors, which include repetitive stress and overcompensation issues resulting from other muscle and soft tissue ailments.
It may take weeks or months for these pain triggers to surface, but when they do, merely resting will not solve the underlying issues. You need to utilize options that actually treat the source of the pain and help reverse the damage that has been done.
Resting has a role to play, but it is only one small factor in a recovery plan.
We Can Get You Started For Less Than The Cost Of A Few Physical Therapy Treatments
The Next Step Is Up To You!
Living with pain is never easy as it affects your entire lifestyle. Nothing is more important than making the proper decision when it comes to treating your muscle injury. Most methods only mask the problems or provide temporary relief; they do not treat the pain at its source.
AidMyAchilles stands out in this regard as our goal is to help you heal for the longer-term.
The bottom line is, you are welcome to try our products for a full 2 months. If you do not receive the benefits that others have experienced, simply return your purchase back to us and we will issue a prompt & full refund. There will be no hard feelings.
The fastest option you have to get our product into your hands as soon as possible is by placing your order online - at this very moment..
Or, Call Our Office. We are open Monday to Friday to allow you place an order over the phone. Simply call toll free 1-866-237-9608 to place an order with one of our knowledgeable Product Advisors. They have the ability to answer all your questions...ensuring you only receive the products you need.
North America Toll Free 1-866-237-9608
Outside North America +1-705-532-1671
If you choose to order through our online shop, know that we keep no credit card data on file. Once the transaction is completed, the credit information disappears from our internal systems.
As you can see, ordering from us is a very easy and safe process, no matter if choosing to order on-line or over the phone.
AidMyAchilles advisors do not work on commission, so be assured you will only receive fair and objective information.
Other Achilles Tendon Therapies
There are many things that can ease the pressure on your Achilles Tendon as you recover. Your doctor will have looked at the structure of your foot and ankle to give you the best possible solution that works for you. The goal of using the following therapies are typically to provide support or increase blood circulation to injuried soft tissue.
Wearing heel pads to reduce strain on your tendon
Tendon strengthening exercises/stretching
Maintain flexible calf muscles
Manual therapy - refers to "hands on" therapies including acupressure, massage therapy and Shiatsu
Taping (wrapping special tape around your heel and the back of your leg/foot)
Shoe inserts/orthotics
A plaster cast - in certain cases
Surgery - if all other methods of treating the tendonitis fail. Keep in mind that if you have completely ruptured your tendon, it requires surgery to be corrected.
Preventing Achilles Tendon Injuries!
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure! Some methods of preventing Achilles tendon injuries include:
Using a TShellz Wrap on your ankle before exercising, and a Cold Compress or Ice Pack after exercising.
Increasing exercise intensity slowly - to condition your tendon to higher levels of exertion/stress.
Stretching your tendon before and after exercise (warm up and cool down).
Wearing shoes that fit correctly (cushioning under the heel and proper arch height) and support your feet.
Running on softer, flat terrain is advisable to avoid injuring or re-injuring your Achilles tendon.
Prevention and Promotion of Lifelong Health
If you want to avoid re-injury, or manage pain and increase circulation for lifelong health benefits a Cold Compress or Ice Pack and TShellz Wrap will provide the results you are looking for.
Why spend time in pain, off from work, and missing out on your active lifestyle when you can be proactive about your injury and the health of your body? Talk to your doctor about incorporating a regular routine of using a Cold Compress or Ice Pack and Deep Tissue Regeneration Therapy.
Call one of our AidMyAchilles Advisers at no cost or obligation to address any lingering questions you have about using heat or cold for your injury - toll free 1-866-237-9608
Learn More About Achilles Injuries & Treatments
I want to learn more about Achilles Surgery & Post-Surgery Recovery
I want to learn more about Deep Tissue Regeneration Therapy
I want to learn more about Ice & Heat: Which Is Better For The Achilles?
I want to learn more about Stretching for the Achilles
Sign Up To Our Newsletter:
There is a lot of information online
- but not all of it is factual. We spend hours per week doing the research... separating fact from fiction. We then present this information in an easy-to-read newsletter, generally sent once per month.
Achilles Tendon Facts
There are over 250,000 achilles tendon injuries each year in the US.
Achilles tendon ruptures are common in people between the ages of 30 and 50.
In runners, too rapid an increase in mileage, hill training without proper strengthening, and recent or inadequate changes to running gear can cause injuries to the Achilles tendon.
Achilles tendonitis accounts for an estimated 11% of running injuries.
3-5% of athletes are forced to leave their sports career due to Achilles tendon overuse injuries that go untreated.
Medications mask the pain but do very little in the healing of Achilles tendonitis. Anti-inflammatories, cortisone injections, and pain killers can cause Achilles tendonitis to worsen.
A fully ruptured tendon REQUIRES surgery. It will not heal on its own.
Achilles tendonitis and Achilles tendinitis are the same thing.
Continually using your Achilles tendon while it is injured will lead to a more serious and/or chronic injury.
Related Injuries
Peroneal Tendinitis
Posterior Tibial Tendinitis (tendinitis of the foot)
Plantar Fasciitis
Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome
Patellar Tendinitis
Quadriceps Tendinitis
Shin Splints
Repetitive Stress Injury Overview
ACL Tear Injury
Hoffas Syndrome (Knee)