Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc
Skip to main content
Receive Updates Via
Natural Health Shop
Mobility Exercises
Mobility Exercise Routines
Spinal Mobility Exercises
Neck Mobility Exercises
Shoulder Mobility Exercises
Elbow & Wrist Mobility Exercises
Hip Mobility Exercises
Knee Mobility Exercises
Ankle Mobility Exercises
Core Strength
Balance & Agility
Foam Rolling
Health Concerns
Health Warnings
Natural Health Solutions
Healthy Eating Resources
Emotional Health and Well-Being
Music
Inspiration
Personal and Environmental Wellness
Children's Health Issues
Healthy Pregnancy
Healthy For Tennis
Mobility Exercises
Natural Health Care
Easy Healthy Recipes
Healthy Beverages
Healthy Desserts
Healthy Dressings
Healthy Korean Recipes
Healthy Meals
Healthy Salads
Healthy Soups
Full Body Cleanse Recipes
You are here
Home » Blogs » Dr. Ben Kim's blog
Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc
Posted by Dr. Ben Kim on Jan 05, 2005
Healthy Eating Resources
Zinc is mineral that your body needs in trace amounts for a variety of different mechanisms.
What Does Zinc Do in Your Body?
Supports a healthy nervous system and is therefore essential for mental and emotional balance.
Helps strengthen your immune system, which increases your capacity to deal with stress.
Helps keep your teeth and bones strong.
Helps control your blood sugar level.
Is involved in numerous chemical reactions that convert food into energy.
Helps to protect your body against free radical damage.
Helps to reduce your blood level of homocysteine, decreasing your risk of a variety of chronic, degenerative health conditions.
Here are some healthy, whole food sources of zinc:
Whole Food Sources Serving Zinc (mg)
Organic Beef 3 ounces 5.80
Beef Liver, cooked 100 grams 5.24
Lima Beans 1 cup 3.60
Organic / Wild Turkey, cooked 3 ounces 3.50
Chickpeas 1 cup 2.60
Split Peas, cooked 1 cup 1.96
Cashews, raw 1 ounce 1.60
Pecans, raw 1 ounce 1.28
Green peas, cooked 1 cup 1.08
Almonds, raw 1 ounce 1.00
Organic egg, poached 1 large 0.55
Ginger root, raw 1 teaspoon 0.34
Signs of Deficiency
Poor sense of taste and smell
Poor appetite
Emotional and behavioural disturbances
Poor wound healing
Skin rashes
Sterility
Chronic and severe diarrhea
White marks/lines across nails
Signs of Deficiency in Children
Poor growth
Delayed sexual maturation
People Who Have Higher Than Average Risk of Developing a Zinc Deficiency*
Infants and children
Pregnant and lactating (breastfeeding) women, especially teenagers
Patients who are receiving their food intravenously
Malnourished individuals, including those with anorexia nervosa
Individuals with severe or persistent diarrhea
Individuals with malabsorption syndromes, including sprue and short bowel syndrome
Individuals with inflammatory bowel disease, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis
Individuals with alcohol-induced liver disease
Individuals with sickle cell anemia
Adults who are 65 years and older
Strict vegetarians - if you eat a lot of grains and legumes that are high in phytic acid, you have a greater than average daily requirement for zinc, as phytic acid is known to decrease the absorption of zinc into the blood stream.
Eating too many grains, spinach, and rhubarb can increase your risk of developing a zinc deficiency. Alcohol, sugar, stress, inadequate protein intake, and taking high doses of calcium in supplement form can also lead to a zinc deficiency.
Recommended DietaryAllow ance for Zinc - 1998
Life Stage Age Males (mg/day) Females (mg/day)
Infants 0-6 months 2 2
Infants 7-12 months 3 3
Children 1-3 years 3 3
Children 4-8 years 5 5
Children 9-13 years 8 8
Adolescents 14-18 years 11 9
Adults 19-years and older 11 8
Pregnancy 18 years and younger all ages - 12
Pregnancy 19 years and older all ages - 11
Breastfeeding 19 years and older - 12
Toxicity
Getting too much zinc in your diet can actually weaken the strength of your immune system. Taking more than 45 mg of zinc per day can lead to a copper deficiency. 80 mg of zinc per day over the long term can lead to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease via a decrease in blood levels of HDL. Greater than 150 mg of zinc per day can weaken your immune system. Nausea, an upset stomach, and vomitting are strong signs of zinc toxicity if you are taking a zinc supplement. For these reasons, I recommend that you stay away from zinc supplements and obtain zinc from a variety of whole, minimally processed foods.
Diagnostic Test for Zinc
Some practitioners use hair analysis, while others run a plasma zinc test. As of March 14, 2005, to the best of my knowledge, there is no reliable diagnostic test for zinc deficiency. If you have any of the signs of zinc deficiency listed above and you are in the high-risk group for zinc deficiency, I recommend that you focus on improving your digestive strength, and consistently eating whole foods that are rich in zinc.
*Adapted from the Linus Pauling Institute Nutrient Index
Go To Nutrient Index
Join more than 100,000 readers worldwide who receive Dr. Ben Kim's free newsletter
Receive simple suggestions to measurably improve your health and mobility, plus alerts on specials and giveaways at our catalogue
Article Tools
Comment
Print
Alter Text Size
Please Rate This
Select ratingGive Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc 1/5Give Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc 2/5Give Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc 3/5Give Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc 4/5Give Healthy Foods that Contain Zinc 5/5
Your rating: None Average: 4.4 (81 votes)
Highest Rated
Gentle Rolling To Condition Your Core & Improve Spinal and Shoulder Mobility
5
Liberate Your Hips With Rickson Squats
5
Catalogue-Dedicated Newsletter - Please Confirm
5
Great News
5
The Widening Gap Between the Ultra Wealthy and Those Living in Poverty
5
Related Posts
Health Benefits of Mushrooms & Healthy Mushroom Recipes
Healthy Treat for Healthy Bones
How to Make Healthy Korean Pancakes
How to Make a Healthy Post-Workout Smoothie
Heart-Healthy Chocolate Smoothie Recipe
Dairy-Free Lasagna Recipe
Healthy Foods that Contain Chromium
Stay in Touch via Facebook
Dr. Ben Kim
Thought of the Moment
“Do you see me?” This is the big question your child is asking every day. “Can you recognize me for who I am, different from your dreams and expectations for me, separate from your agenda for me?”
- Dr. Shefali Tsabary
Previous Thoughts...
New Natural Health Resources
Most Popular Natural Health Tools
Recent comments
Excellent and well articulated Article
Great job Dr. Kim. Glad someone finally say it like it is and this is the best and most articulated...
Elizabeth Quintal commented on: Can Selfish People Change?
Can Selfish People Change
NO! Selfish people are Narcissistic individuals who will never change. I had to go "No...
Susan Couture commented on: Can Selfish People Change?
Fairness to other siblings
I have a similar situation as the one described regarding your mother and your siblings. Does your...
Karen commented on: Can Selfish People Change?
I agree you should cut all
I agree you should cut all communication with him.There are people in this world known to...
whatsupdoc commented on: Can Selfish People Change?
Loved this post. Even though
@Ricki ***shoot, I wish I'd had them this morning. :)
Kay commented on: What Most Physicians and Researchers Won't Tell You About Your Health
More Natural Health Resources
Organic Food Supplements
Dr. Ben Kim's Organic Greens Powder
Dr. Ben Kim's Organic Greens in Vegetable Capsules
Dr. Ben Kim's Vitamin C - Organic Acerola Cherry Powder
5 Super Greens
Organic Plant Protein Blend
Maca, Cacao, & Yacon Blend
Our Target Formulas
Organic Whole Food Multi Powder
Organic Whole Food Multi in Vegetable Capsules
Adrenal Refresh
Vision Support
Thyroid Support
Proteolytic Enzymes
Synbiotic Plus - Intestinal Yeast Cleanser
Natural Personal Care
Organic Moisturizing Lotion
Bamboo & Berry Facial Scrub
SELA Natural Skin Brightener
Organic Mediterranean Face Wash
Arnica Plus Inflammation Cream
Other Popular Items
Premium Coconut Milk Powder
Premium Virgin Coconut Oil
Organic Dried Mangoes
Organic Teas
Our Natural Health Catalogue
Mobility Exercises Archive
Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
Podcasts
Contact
The contents of this website are the opinions of Dr. Ben Kim unless otherwise noted. The information on this website is not intended as personalized medical advice and is not intended to replace the relationship that you have with your primary care provider. Any decisions you make with regard to your daily choices and medical treatments should be made with the help of a qualified health care provider.