Dealing with Headaches, Asthma, and 'Cookbook Medicine'
Loading...
Warning!
This page uses Javascript. Your browser either doesn't support Javascript or you have it turned off. To see this page as it is meant to appear please use a Javascript enabled browser.
×
STAGING
×
Service Error!
An error has ocurred please retry the previous action, if the problem persists please contact the administrator.
Warning!
This page uses Cookies. Your browser either doesn't support Cookies or you have disabled them. To see this page as it is meant to appear please enable Cookies on your browser.
Processing Order
Please wait while we process your order.
How to Prevent Killer Headaches,
STOP MIGRAINES,
And Get Your Life Back!
Discover the main migraine triggers (avoid them and you'll say goodbye to killer headaches)
Discover a two-part nutrient drink you can mix that stops migraine attacks in minutes (very easy)
See the link between migraine and panic attacks, depression, strokes, and Alzheimer's (you need to resolve the migraine issues to prevent these ailments)
Dear Friend,
If you suffer from migraines or any type of killer headache you'll want to get my FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, right away!
×
In order to play our videos you need to have Flash installed.
Click below to install the latest version and then try again.
Download Now
In your FREE report, I'll show you a highly effective, natural, drug-free solution to ending migraines. And ENDING them is extremely important because . . .
Health researchers have confirmed that people who still have migraines late in life have a six-fold increased risk of a stroke. And potentially even worse . . .
Migraine sufferers are much more likely to develop panic attacks, depression, seizures, and possibly even Alzheimer's disease!
There might also be a connection to Parkinson's disease, so this is NOT something to take lightly, stoically endure, or trust to conventional, drug-based medicine, which has long failed migraine sufferers.
Previously, very little was known about the cause of migraines. Patients were treated mostly with pain-killing drugs that helped a little but then caused "rebound headaches" as soon as the drug wore off.
That prompted sufferers to take more drugs, which made drug company executives happy, even as it ensured more headaches and more suffering.
Today's modern migraine drugs work better, but they have harmful long-term side effects, and thus you should not rely on them for any length of time.
What's more, it's very important to understand that most drugs only treat symptoms; they do not bring about cures. But fortunately . . .
Recent discoveries offer far
more effective natural solutions
Today, at last, we know the main triggers for migraines. We know what goes on inside your brain when you have an attack. And we know how to prevent and stop migraines with safe and effective natural solutions.
Today I'm going to tell you about a simple two-part nutrient drink you can mix up at home that has been shown to provide rapid relief for those who have tried it.
I'm also going to help you gain a basic understanding of the pathology of migraines, so you'll understand that the real solution is not in drugs, but rather in eliminating the triggers, which you can easily control.
Most important, you'll learn about simple dietary changes and key supplements that will not only prevent migraines and other killer headaches but will give you protection against . . .
Seizures
Depression
Anxiety and Panic Attacks
Obsessive-Compulsive Behavior
Parkinson's Disease
Huntington's Disease
Alzheimer's/Dementia
Aging Too Fast
But before we get to these things, allow me a brief introduction because I want you to have confidence in my advice . . .
I'm Dr. Russell Blaylock, an American-trained medical doctor with neurosurgical and nutritional practices spanning 26 years . . .
I've served on the editorial staff of the Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons, the Journal of the American Nutraceutical Association, and I'm currently the editor of Newsmax's very popular health advisory letter, The Blaylock Wellness Report.
As we discuss how you can prevent and stop killer headaches today, I'll show you how The Blaylock Wellness Report can help you eliminate health problems, avoid harmful drugs, and NOT be fooled by drug and food industry propaganda that puts profits ahead of your health.
First, we'll preview the valuable information in Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, and then I'll show you how to get your FREE copy.
Let's get going . . .
What is a migraine?
What causes it?
How can you stop it?
It's estimated that 30 million Americans suffer from migraine headaches. Some get them just occasionally, some once or twice a month, but sadly too many suffer almost daily.
But this estimate is really too low because many migraine sufferers are never diagnosed. They go through life thinking they just occasionally get a bad headache.
Don't fall into this trap, because the migraine is a specific type of headache with issues that must be resolved or you can develop serious — even fatal — health problems later on.
Fortunately, you'll get the facts you need in your FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them. But let me tell you more now . . .
Some migraines are extremely intense and last 24 hours or more. Others are relatively mild and last just an hour or two. Some start with an "aura" that appears as flashing lights. Others have no aura.
Sometimes, migraines can cause paralysis on one side, or numbness in the extremities. They can impair vision in one eye. The worst attacks can even cause coma.
If you've suffered severe and frequent migraines, you're probably extremely sensitive to light, and during an attack you experience debilitating pain, as well as intense nausea that can lead to vomiting.
Usually the pain throbs on one side of your head, behind your eye, or near your temple. Before I reveal the natural solution that's fully detailed in your FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, let's see what's going on . . .
A migraine attack begins at a focal point of over-excitation in the hyper-excitable cortex of your brain. From this site, a wave of suppressed brain cell activity spreads out like circles of water when a pebble is thrown in a pond.
This is called "spreading depression" — a wave of depressed brain cell activity that moves slowly over the cortex and sends impulses into the deeper recesses of your brain. What you feel are the progressive symptoms of the migraine headache.
Now, don't worry, I'm not going to give you a physiology lesson or get too technical here, but I do want you to know the basics, because then you'll clearly see the path to ending migraines once and for all!
Here's what happens inside your brain
Four major events occur during a migraine attack . . .
Low ionic magnesium levels
High glutamate levels
Reduced production of energy
Localized inflammation, artery dilation, and pain
I call this constellation of events "immunoexcitoxicity." That's a fancy medical term, but it has a very simple explanation . . .
Your immune system is responding with inflammation as your brain's glutamate receptors are over-excited. This happens because of low magnesium levels and high glutamate levels. Glutamates, as you'll see in a moment, are excitotoxins hidden in hundreds of different foods.
Interestingly, the exact same immunoexcitoxicity occurs in epilepsy, which is a related neurological disorder. That's why migraine sufferers are also more prone to anxiety, panic attacks, depression, seizures, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
The good news is that when you adopt the simple natural solution in your FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, you'll not only prevent and stop migraines, but you'll greatly reduce your risks for these other serious disorders.
There's more to like: This natural solution will also reduce your risk for heart attack and stroke. So, let's see how "immunoexcitoxicity" is triggered, and then I'll show you how to prevent it.
Preventing and stopping migraines
You now know the basics of what goes on inside your brain when you have a migraine attack . . .
Low levels of magnesium and high levels of glutamates
An immune system response of inflammation caused by
glutamate receptors becoming over-excited
A spreading wave of brain hyperactivity causing flashing lights,
arterial dilation, pain, nausea, and reduced energy.
OK, can you see the easy fix? Sure, it's right there in front of you . . .
You'll need to increase your blood levels of magnesium, greatly reduce your blood levels of glutamates, and reduce inflammation. And the good news is that all of this can be done without harsh drugs that have harmful long-term side effects.
Let's look at magnesium first because that's an easy fix. And then we'll see how to cut down on glutamates, which is a little more tricky since they're hidden in many foods.
We'll also touch on a few things that can adversely impact both your magnesium and glutamate levels — for instance hormonal fluctuations or a diet high in sugar — but we can fix those things and reduce inflammation, too!
How to boost your magnesium levels
and stop migraines fast!
First thing, you'll need to get your magnesium levels up, and in your FREE report I'll show you how to do this with supplements. But if you're saying, "I've tried that and it doesn't work" or "I can't tolerate magnesium," don't worry . . .
If it didn't work, you simply didn't get enough. And I'll acknowledge that there are a couple of problems with oral magnesium supplementation that can make it difficult . . .
First, many people get diarrhea from taking magnesium in all but the smallest doses. They simply can't absorb enough to help with their headaches, while the side effect is very unpleasant.
Here's the solution . . .
Most magnesium supplements are made up of a complex of magnesium types, but to eliminate or greatly reduce the chance of diarrhea, you need a specific type that is better tolerated and more easily absorbed.
In your FREE copy of Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, I'll tell you what that type is, and even where to buy it. (I have no financial interest here and offer this source only to be helpful since this type is more difficult to find.)
Second, if your brain levels of ionized magnesium are depleted, which is usually the case with chronic migraine sufferers, it could take up to four to six months of oral supplementation to get your magnesium levels up high enough to stop migraine attacks.
If you don't want to wait — and I don't blame you — you'll need a series of high-dose magnesium IV drips (no diarrhea problem here because the magnesium bypasses your digestive tract and goes directly into your bloodstream).
If your doctor doesn't provide this service, you can go to www.acam.org, the American College for Advancement in Medicine, and they'll refer you to a physician in your area who does. Next, let's see how to . . .
Stop a migraine attack in five minutes
This is a perfect example of the kinds of tips I provide my readers in every issue of The Blaylock Wellness Report. l have found that too many people suffer for years because conventional medicine offers only drugs, many of which don't work, or have unpleasant side effects, or actually do bodily harm!
So let's see the fast, natural way to stop a migraine attack in minutes . . .
You'll need to get a specific type of magnesium powder that you'll mix with pyruvate in four ounces of water . . . then, simply drink when you feel a migraine coming on. As I mentioned earlier, this mixture has proved to stop migraines in about five minutes.
You can even take the ingredients to work, or carry them with you in the car. Just mix with water and drink.
But the required type of magnesium is not the common one used in vitamin-mineral formulas . . .
That's why in your FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, I'll tell you exactly what to buy, where to buy it, and the correct dosage/ratio of magnesium to pyruvate.
By the way, because you're a valued Newsmax reader, in one moment I'm going to extend an invitation to try The Blaylock Wellness Report completely risk-free at half price today — that's less than 14 cents a day.
I'm not kidding! You can get a one-year, risk-free subscription for just 14 cents a day — a tremendous value because it includes . . .
Immediate FREE access to dozens and dozens of health reports I've written — on virtually every health problem — over the past six years!
Just ahead, I'll show you some of the titles. Many of these reports will answer urgent medical questions, immediately help you resolve health issues, and get you off harmful drugs and onto natural remedies that work even better. But first . . .
Let's look at the glutamate problem . . .
I'm sure you know that several foods and additives can trigger migraines. These include chocolate, the artificial sweetener aspartame, sulfites (in wine), and nitrates (in cured meats), as well as alcohol and caffeine. Most likely you know to avoid these. But . . .
The biggest migraine-creating culprit is a group of excitotoxic-food additives known as glutamates. And they're especially sinister because they are hidden in so many foods . . .
How to get headache-producing
glutamates out of your diet
Glutamate receptors stimulate and excite the brain, including the parts of your brain that interpret taste.
All headaches, and especially migraine headaches, occur with elevated brain levels of glutamates combined with low levels of magnesium. And in today's world of modern processed foods, it's hard to avoid them, unless you become a label detective . . .
Everything you need to know is in Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them.
This valuable report is YOURS FREE today when you try a subscription to The Blaylock Wellness Report at just 14 cents a day. Of course, your subscription is protected with our 90-day, 100% money-back guarantee. And even if you choose to a full refund, the report is YOURS to keep!
Let's learn more about unhealthy glutamates . . .
Years ago, food scientists discovered that monosodium glutamate (MSG) could enhance the flavor of many foods . . .
Unfortunately, as soon as one food manufacturer added MSG to its products, and consumers decided they liked it, all the others followed suit. The result is that, today, toxic glutamates are added to hundreds of food products.
No doubt you've heard of the "Chinese Restaurant Syndrome." Some people (obviously those prone to migraines) got bad headaches or became ill after eating Chinese food. Why? Because the restaurant owners routinely put MSG in their dishes.
With repeated incidents and widespread negative publicity, MSG got a bad rap, and some manufacturers advertised that their products contained "NO MSG." Unfortunately, they weren't telling the truth.
Washington pay-to-play corruption
can be hazardous to your health
Here, once again, you can thank corrupt pay-to-play Washington politicians. Food manufacturers hire lobbyists in Washington to make sure that legislators and government officials make federal food policies favorable to their profits, and this of course extends to food labeling.
Today's federal food labeling policy allows food manufacturers to use taste-stimulating glutamates under the guise of friendly names.
That means that many products that say "NO MSG" actually contain similar migraine-causing glutamates. You can't trust your government to do the right thing. But help is on the way . . .
In your FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, I'm going to give you a complete list of harmful "glutamates" that are disguised under safe-sounding names. Here are just a few to avoid . . .
Natural Flavoring
Carrageenan
Whey protein
Isolated soy proteins
Sodium caseinate
That's just a partial list; there are several more. Get your FREE report, get the full list, and start reading food labels. If you're serious about ending migraines, you must eliminate glutamates from your diet.
Some additional foods that have glutamates in them, or that trigger the release of them in your body, are peanut butter, tomato paste, parmesan cheese, stock, broth, and instant gravy mixes.
You'll discover several more foods to avoid in your FREE report. You may have to give up a few favorite foods, but it will be worth it to end migraines and protect yourself from future panic attacks, depression, seizures, Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's.
OK, so now you've learned that you must significantly increase your magnesium and significantly reduce, or eliminate, glutamates. What else should you do?
You'll need to reduce the overall inflammation in your body, which not only creates headache pain, but is implicated in arthritis, diabetes, heart disease, cancer, and many more diseases (see my special report on this subject just ahead — you can get a FREE copy).
You'll also need to cut way down on sugar, refined carbohydrates, and high-glycemic foods, such as white bread, pasta, rice, potatoes, cookies, and cakes, as these will skyrocket your glutamate levels and trigger migraines (they will also lead to diabetes, heart disease, and cancer).
Don't just cut out the white stuff in the sugar bowl, but brown sugar, raw sugar, honey, and the artificial sugars such as Splenda and aspartame.
The natural sweetener stevia is OK, unless you're allergic to it, or are one of the rare people who get hypoglycemia from using it (see your FREE report for details).
Read food labels and note how much sugar is in packaged foods. What you'd think are healthy foods are often loaded with sugar. Fruit-flavored yogurt has 24 grams of sugar (more than ice cream). The same is true of orange juice in cartons. The natural sugar in fresh fruit is OK.
Also, don't use orange juice that's fortified with calcium, as the combination of high sugar and calcium can easily trigger a migraine. And discontinue your use of calcium supplements if you feel a migraine coming on, or during an attack.
I have much more to tell you, and that's why you need to get your FREE copy of my report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them. Here's how . . .
Give yourself a healthy advantage with
The Blaylock Wellness Report
As a valued Newsmax reader, the valuable information in my bulletin today is yours FREE. But why stop here, when you can try The Blaylock Wellness Report completely risk-free at half price today (just 14 cents a day) and receive a new issue every month!
BONUS: Your half-price risk-free subscription includes a FREE copy of Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, plus . . .
You get immediate FREE access to dozens and dozens of health reports that I've written on virtually every health problem over the past six years. Check out these valuable titles . . .
Inflammation: The Real Cause of Most Diseases (including heart disease, diabetes, cancer, and arthritis, but you can reduce it naturally without resorting to harmful drugs)
What Drug Companies Don't Want You to Know About Heart Disease, Diabetes, and Obesity (they've been lying to you and pushing unnecessary drugs, when there are better natural solutions)
Arthritis: Confronting Chronic Joint Pain (no need to suffer, these natural remedies really work — even better than drugs)
Prostate Cancer: What Every Man Needs to Know (milk, certain vegetable oils, trans-fats, red meats, and sugar are the main culprits)
The Great Cancer Lie: It Is Preventable and Beatable (the incidence of cancer and its death rates have not declined, and conventional cancer treatment must be called a failure. Now see how to prevent, treat, and beat cancer naturally)
Vitamin D's Hidden Role in Your Health (Surprise! The RDA for vitamin D is way too low, most Americans are deficient, and this deficiency is a major contributing factor to many degenerative diseases)
Plus all of these valuable reports, too . . .
Eliminate Hypertension Forever (blood pressure medicine is unnecessary and statin drugs make it worse; see how dietary changes and natural supplements are the real solution)
Keeping Young: Your Sex Life, Looks, and Skin (discover the cellular mechanisms involved in aging, and see what you can do to feel better, look better, have more energy, and live longer)
7 Strategies to Stop Heart Disease (reduce belly fat, get your vitamin D levels up, stop using statin drugs, supplement with CoQ10, get mercury out of your system, reduce inflammation, and much more)
How to Cut Your Risk of Deadly Stroke (see how chronic inflammation causes the buildup of plaque in your arteries, NOT cholesterol, plus see the most important tests to get to determine your risks, and also get natural solutions)
Your Healthcare Is in Jeopardy: Protect Yourself (Obamacare expands the role of government in healthcare, and that can be hazardous to your health; see why prevention is your best option)
All these and dozens more reports are waiting for you in our subscribers-only web archives. Plus, you'll discover all this in your FREE copy of Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them!
Migraine drugs have harmful side effects, such as loss of memory and brain function (but there is one drug that blocks the key glutamate receptor without completely shutting it down, and you can use "this one" until my natural solution solves your problem)
Find out why a fall in estrogen levels can trigger a migraine attack (and also how to use magnesium to counteract it)
Get the full list of excitotoxic glutamates that trigger migraines (see which foods to avoid, and also how to read labels to avoid migraine- producing food additives)
Find out why a low-sugar or low-glycemic diet is one of the best preventions for migraine (increasing your intake of fresh vegetables helps, too)
See why calcium is a powerful trigger for migraine (avoid calcium during hormonal fluctuations, and especially when you feel an attack coming on)
Find out why CoQ10 and antioxidants increase magnesium levels and energy in your brain (and thus preclude conditions favorable to migraine)
See how quercetin, curcumin, omega-3 oils high in DHA, silymarin, and melatonin combine to reduce inflammation (thus preventing a necessary component of migraine attack).
All this and much more is waiting for you right now, just for trying a risk-free subscription to The Blaylock Wellness Report at half price today. And with our 100% money-back guarantee, you won't risk one dime for taking a close look and getting your FREE report!
Plus, as a regular reader of The Blaylock Wellness Report you'll learn how . . .
Big Pharma controls medicine in our country and gets Big Media to promote their drugs in the name of "public service and breaking news."
You'll also see how they get Washington politicians to turn their profit agenda into federal health policy and even LAW!
You'll learn why they create drugs — not for cures, but rather for treatments for life — and how to know when you're being given bad or unnecessary drugs.
And most important, you'll find out which drugs don't work. Which ones are harmful. And which ones — like cholesterol-lowering drugs — are completely unnecessary and even weaken your heart!
My mission is your good health
As a regular reader of The Blaylock Wellness Report, you'll also learn the REAL causes of . . .
Autism, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease . . .
Heart disease, stroke, cancer, diabetes, heartburn, and intestinal problems, plus . . .
Weight gain, fatigue, allergies, headache, sexual dysfunction . . .
Immune disorders, arthritis, skin problems, osteoporosis, hypertension, headaches, and much more!
You'll get effective solutions to prevent, treat, and reverse all these ailments! More than half the battle is preventing disease and avoiding drugs that do more harm than good — and that's my mission!
You can trust what you read in The Blaylock Wellness Report because . . .
I take NO money from the drug companies. I get NO kickbacks from companies selling health products. And I'm NEVER involved in studies funded by the pharmaceutical industry or the government.
There's a very good reason The Blaylock Wellness Report has become one of Newsmax's largest circulation letters . . .
I work for you, and I stay focused on showing you how to safely prevent and treat diseases naturally — and that includes recognizing propaganda from Big Government, Big Media, and Big Pharma (especially important following the passage of Obamacare). Now, look here . . .
Today's Special Half-Price Invitation
The Blaylock Wellness Report is regularly $96 for a full year (12 issues) and what a bargain that is. But wait . . . because you're a valued member of the Newsmax family — YOU SAVE 50% today!
Your preferred rate for the online e-mail edition is just $49.95 for a full year — that's only 14 cents a day! Or $54.95 for a full year if you prefer to receive the printed and mailed edition.
Of course, you'll have immediate access to dozens and dozens of reports I've written, which are right now waiting for you in the web archives.
More good news: As a subscriber, you'll be encouraged to submit your own personal health questions. Each month, I answer several of them in the Ask Dr. Blaylock section of the newsletter.
Your 100% Money-Back Guarantee
Of course you risk nothing for giving The Blaylock Wellness Report a try. You must be completely satisfied that you're getting the best medical advice available today, or you may cancel for a full refund within 90 days, and you can still keep your FREE report, Killer Headaches: Natural Ways to Stop and Prevent Them, plus everything you learned from past issues.
Please Act Now . . . and take control of your health with The Blaylock Wellness Report! This is not just a great offer, but an important one, and I personally look forward to helping you prevent illness and disease, and live a happier, healthier life!
Sincerely,
Dr. Russell Blaylock