weight loss | Inner Health Blog
Inner Health Blog
Health, Vitality & Beauty from the Inside Out!
Main menu
Skip to content
Inner Health Home
Hypnotherapy
Self-Hypnosis Downloads
Testimonials
Weight Loss
Stress Elimination Self-Hypnosis
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety
Pain Management
Tag Archives: weight loss
Post navigation
← Older posts
Is Detoxing for You?
Posted on December 24, 2017 by ihbPT
Robyn Openshaw is a researcher and expert in human detoxification.
You’ve heard about cleansing or detoxing, and maybe you’ve wondered:
Is it scary?
Will I suffer?
Will I be hungry?
Don’t I have a liver and kidneys already “detoxing” for me?
Will my food addictions get the best of me?
Will I fail?
Robyn made this short video about WHO should detoxify, and WHY…..after over 20 years of studying with the most gifted and knowledgeable holistic clinicians all over the world–on 4 continents, in 19 clinics.
She learned that the vast majority of medical doctors have no idea how to optimize the detoxification pathways of the body.
And why you NEED to, just like you need to change the air filter and oil filter in your car.
(If you’d had a Model T in the 1930’s during the infamous Dust Bowl, could you have driven forever without changing the air filter? With 84,000 chemicals approved for use in our environment now….well, it’s the equivalent of the Dust Bowl!)
Eating processed food and animal products, and even conventional produce sprayed with herbicides and pesticides, adds to your Toxic Body Burden. (That is, the amount of toxicity that goes in, reduced by the amount that is filtered out, by your organs of elimination.)
Toxins in your beauty products and in your water and air are other sources of exposure.
We live in a strange new world full of synthetic chemicals harmful to human life, everywhere.
(The Environmental Working Group estimates the average woman is exposed to over 100 harmful chemicals every week, through personal care products alone!)
In your food, there are genetically modified ingredients, synthetic additives, preservatives, nitrites and nitrates in cured meats, neurotoxins like MSG and aspartame in hundreds of products. And so much more.
Municipal water contains endocrine disruptors like chlorine, fluoride, phthalates, and even residuals of prescription drugs. Bottled water contains leached plastics.
In Robyn’s Detox Video Masterclass she’s made available to us, Robyn tackles all these topics.
If you’ve ever wondered what you can do, to eliminate more toxicity from your body, check out her 4 really educational inspiring and educational videos in the masterclass on these topics:
Could Toxicity Be Why I’m Sick? The 7 Types of Toxins in Your Body and How to Eliminate Them
How to Change Your Weight Set Point Forever (Detoxing, Not Dieting)
8 Foods That Help You Detoxify (and 11 That Cause Toxicity)
Bonus: How a Physical Detox Can Resolve Emotional Issues
She’s offering you a spot in her FREE video class, on how to clean up and reboot your organs of elimination, to feel better than you have in 20 years.
VIDEO: Is Detoxing For You?
After 20 years of research and experimentation, Robyn has now supported over 10,000 people through a 26-day detox process.
She’s gathered data, including 500 detoxers’ inspiring stories, and she has some pretty interesting things to say about what happens, in the process!
(What’s “easy and fun.” What’s “hard.” She’s really honest about it.)
If you think detoxing is for weight loss, think again. Watch the short video to learn why some folks in the “ideal weight” category are shown to be at higher risk than those with lots of external body fat.
Detoxing is for anyone who lives where there’s car exhaust, processed food, chlorine and fluoride in the water, electronic devices in your energy field, or who experiences chronic stress. Robyn explains why.
It’s a strange, polluted world out there, and we have to get very smart, to eliminate higher-than-ever “toxic body burden.”
That’s where A (the input of toxic chemicals) minus B (the amount of chemical burden your elimination channels successfully excrete) = C (what’s left).
So, what do you do about the remainder? That overwhelm of toxicity, when kidneys, liver, lymphatic system, blood, and respiratory system can’t keep up?
An extremely well tested detoxification process radically reduces your disease risk.
Plus, following the program for 26 days robs your fat stores of the job they’re currently doing for you.
(Because your fat stores are hoarding toxic chemicals. Why? So they don’t get into critical organs and kill you. Your fat plays a very important role, especially around the middle of your body. And your body will keep hoarding fat, until you decrease that toxic body burden.)
I highly recommend this Video Masterclass, where Robyn explains that. She began researching detoxification when she was obese, very ill with 21 diseases, and her 1-year old was dying, in and out of hospitals, on constant bronchial drugs, steroids, and antibiotics. A “failure to thrive” baby below the 5th percentile, he clung to life and bounced in and out of emergency rooms.
What she discovered is in this Video Masterclass. Detoxing twice a year is how she became a competitive athlete, and ditched 70 pounds and all medications and disease states. She was dying, and on half a dozen drugs, diagnosed with 21 diseases, at 25. Now she’s 50 and free of all symptoms, diagnoses, and prescriptions.
She believes that aging isn’t so much about years, as much as toxic body burden overwhelming the immune system.
And I won’t be a spoiler, but there’s a really amazing story about what happened to her severely ill “Failure to Thrive” baby, in one of the masterclass videos as well.
Watch this short video to help you think through whether a period devoted to resting, rebuilding, and repairing your elimination organs and immune system is right for you.
If you’re intrigued by the idea of decreasing your own toxicity, take a deeper look, in the free video masterclass. And ask questions of Robyn after watching any of the videos. Enjoy!
Posted in Entire Body Detox	| Tagged cleansing, detox, detoxification, detoxing, diet, immune system, toxic body, Toxic Body Burden, toxic chemicals, weight, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
Importance of Mitochondria in Your Body-Gut Health
Posted on November 21, 2017 by ihbPT
Importance of Mitochondria in Your Body-Gut Health
The gut has been often called the second brain but new research is indicating that it may be the first brain. Your gut feeds your body and brain and can be beneficial or detrimental (dependent on what you put in it) to your overall heath including mood, energy, motivation, mental clarity and focus, weight and even disease in the body… if your gut ain’t right… you ain’t right!
That is why it is vital that you are supplementing your diet with high-quality, pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements… because on the account of mineral depleted soil and erosion, fast foods, processed foods, sugary foods and drinks, and environmental factors… we are just not getting all the nutrients our body crave and need in our diets today.
Gut microbiota (formerly called gut flora) is the name given today to the microbe population living in our intestine. Some of the functions are:
It helps the body to digest certain foods that the stomach and small intestine have not been able to digest.
It helps with the production of some vitamins (B and K).
It helps us combat aggressions from other microorganisms, maintaining the wholeness of the intestinal mucosa.
It plays an important role in the immune system, performing a barrier effect.
A healthy and balanced gut microbiota is key to ensuring proper digestive functioning.
Taking into account the major role gut microbiota plays in the normal functioning of the body and the different functions it accomplishes, experts nowadays consider it as an “organ”. However, it is an “acquired” organ, as babies are born sterile; that is, intestine colonisation starts right after birth and evolves as we grow.
Although it can adapt to change, a loss of balance in gut microbiota may arise in some specific situations. This is called dysbiosis. Dysbiosis may be linked to health problems such as functional bowel disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, allergies, obesity and diabetes.
-Source: http://www.gutmicrobiotaforhealth.com/en/about-gut-microbiota-info/
Before telling you how you can put your heart attack worries behind you, you need to understand WHY healthy older people have heart attacks in the first place… and it all starts with the little power plants inside your cells called mitochondria.
Mitochondria (might-o-con-dria) are responsible for turning food into cellular energy. They’re responsible for every ounce of energy created in your body… whenever you garden or golf… whenever you do something as simple as flex a muscle… the energy you do it with comes from millions of microscopic mitochondria.
You might think that since your entire body needs energy that the mitochondria are spread out evenly… but that’s not the case. Take your biceps for example…
Your biceps have about 200 mitochondria in every cell – that’s what it takes to flex your muscles, pick up your groceries, or raise your arm to scratch your nose. Not 200 mitochondria in your biceps…200 mitochondria in every single cell in your biceps.
But it takes 5,000 mitochondria in each heart cell to keep it pumping strong! Your heart is the biggest user of mitochondria, by far. And yet, as important as mitochondria are…
1 out of every 6 people has mitochondrial dysfunction!
And it turns out, as we get older, our mitochondria start to mutate. Our cells come under attack from toxins … from stress … but mostly, from free oxygen radicals. These toxins cause the mitochondria to mutate and die out.
Each time it happens it’s like microscopic blackout… Picture your heart full of millions of energy plants that are going dark, one by one… that’s exactly what happens as we age… the process takes years but eventually, your heart lacks the energy to even beat properly… it gets sluggish and irregular.
If you’ve ever felt your heart skip a beat or had a single powerful beat that scared you… you might be experiencing what happens when your heart doesn’t have enough energy. Without help, this happens to all of us.
But the process starts when you’re 30 and takes years before it’s a killer… and that’s the real reason teenagers generally don’t suffer heart attacks… their mitochondria haven’t been under attack long enough… not enough of them have mutated YET! So, their heart has plenty of energy to fire on all cylinders. So if you are not a teen… every year takes its toll.
As mitochondria die off, our heart doesn’t have the energy it needs to pump like it should… our heart doesn’t “fire” right… it gets sluggish… so, it must work harder to try and keep blood flowing to your arteries.
Your heart is like any other muscle – it grows when it’s overworked… so, your heart becomes enlarged. Then it takes on excess fluid, straining itself even more until finally, blood backs up in your lungs and other vital organs… and that’s called Congestive Heart Failure, or CHF.
Five million Americans have CHF and there’s a half million new cases every year… and CHF is nasty. It leaves you short of breath, tired, and weak… your legs, ankles, and feet swell… your heart beats funny… and you pick up a cough that won’t seem to go away.
Over time, Congestive Heart Failure will kill you if left untreated. And I’ve been told it feels like you’re drowning… but it’s slow… so you have this horrible feeling for months.
Young people don’t get normally suffer from CHF because they still have plenty of mitochondria to keep the heart pumping.
The OTHER Reason Teenagers Don’t Get Heart Attacks
Have you heard about “good cholesterol” and “bad cholesterol”? The good cholesterol is called HDL (High Density Lipoprotein – lie-po-pro-teen). HDL sweeps gunk out of your arteries.
The bad cholesterol is called LDL (Low Density Lipoprotein). LDL sticks to the walls of your arteries and blocks them up.
But that’s only half the story…
After all, teenagers eat a pile of that stuff… and they aren’t dropping dead on the ground with blocked arteries. As it turns out, LDL (bad) cholesterol doesn’t grab on to the walls of your arteries… and it doesn’t block the blood flow to the heart… not by itself anyway.
In young people, LDL cholesterol particles pass through the arteries, like a hot knife through butter. It simply doesn’t cause kids any problems. But as we get older, something changes… our LDL particles start to oxidate (rust).
And as LDL particles rust, that’s when they get stuck to our artery walls. The rust builds up, and causes heart attacks. How does this happen? Well, it’s not exactly rust. Rust is the term for what happens when iron meets free oxygen radicals and oxidizes.
But lots of other things besides iron oxidize too. When you slice an apple in half and leave it and it goes brown is an example of oxidation. But you don’t want oxidation on your LDL particles… because that’s what turns them into deadly plaque…
And it’s oxidation that mutates and kills off your Mitochondria too. If it’s oxidation that causes plaque, and it’s oxidation that kills your energy-producing mitochondria… it makes sense to stop oxidation dead in its tracks… so how do we do that?
The human body is colonized by a vast number of microbes, collectively referred to as the human microbiota. The link between these microbes and our health is the focus of a growing number of research initiatives, and new insights are emerging rapidly.
Your first step to improving your gut health is to remove sugar, alcohol, wheat products, and fast foods and processed foods (most contain sugar under different guises) from your diet. If possible, eat certified organic wholefoods, fruit and vegetables (we want to avoid additives, pesticides and herbicides that may still be present). Try this for a month and you will be amazed on how much better you feel.
The second step is to supplement your diet with high-quality; pharmaceutical-grade supplements that contain not only the essential vitamins and minerals but also prebiotics, probiotics, enzymes, and amino acids, which are all essential for maintaining good gut health and help feed your good microbiota and guard against two common forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
-Source: https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11582
Another very powerful supplement for gut health is Coenzyme-Q10 (CoQ10).
CoQ10 is a powerful antioxidant and is much better at keeping LDL from turning into plaque than Vitamin E is https://www.emoryhealthcare.org/heart-vascular/wellness/heart-failure-statistics.html
CoQ10 isn’t some foreign chemical… it’s already produced in every cell of your body. Not only does CoQ10 keep oxidation at bay… it’s the fuel that helps mitochondria turn food into energy.
CoQ10 functions in the mitochondria, the “powerhouse” of the cell, to assist in making energy (called adenosine triphosphate or ATP) from carbohydrates and fats.
CoQ10 primarily acts as an antioxidant in the heart and is involved in the synthesis of energy, but it also has other important functions inside the mitochondria such as stabilizing membranes. CoQ10 protects the “bad” LDL cholesterol that is implicated in atherosclerosis from oxidizing. Because of CoQ10’s role in oxidative stress, energy production and stabilization, it is useful in preventing damage to the heart during periods of stress.
CoQ10 levels have been shown to be depleted in patients with a variety of heart conditions and in those taking cholesterol-lowering statin drugs. Research of CoQ10 spanning over 30 years shows potential for use in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease in these patients.
-Source: https://www.nutritionexpress.com/showarticle.aspx?articleid=786
But when you hit about 30, you start to lose CoQ10. – http://www.liveinthenow.com/article/anti-aging-supplement-profile-coq10
The fact is, you’ll lose up to about 72% of your CoQ10 as you near old age. – http://www.lifeextension.com/Vitamins-Supplements/item01733/Super-Ubiquinol-CoQ10-with-BioPQQ
And if you take statins, your CoQ10 levels dip even faster. Statins alone lower CoQ10 levels by a whopping 40%! – http://www.lifeextension.com/Vitamins-Supplements/item01733/Super-Ubiquinol-CoQ10-with-BioPQQ
If you are looking for powerful pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements that provide high-quality pre and probiotics, enzymes, amino acids, antioxidants, Co-Q10 plus a whole range of other vitamins, minerals, and herb and plant extracts, then you need to look no further than the THRIVE line of supplements…
Also read:
Cancer and the gut microbiota: An unexpected link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4690201/
Microbiota: a key orchestrator of cancer therapy: https://www.nature.com/articles/nrc.2017.13
Gut microbiota and colorectal cancer: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5395603/
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
It is designed as being a expressing of information and knowledge through the investigation and practical experience of the numerous authors. You should try to make your individual healthcare decisions dependent on your research and in collaboration with a qualified health care professional.
Posted in Gut Health	| Tagged anxiety, autoimmune disorder, brain health, depression, gut health mitochondria, immune support, microbiota, nutrition, stress, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
Ultimate Weight Management & Stress Relief Program
Posted on October 18, 2017 by ihbPT
We live in an age of where chronic stress is fast becoming the major contributor to weight gain (and weight loss), and chronic illness in our bodies. Stress about our relationships… our family… our children… and our health, and throw in workplace and environmental stress and you have a toxic minefield. And with our modern busy lives, it often feels like its never-ending battle, trying to eat well and live a balanced lifestyle.
And unfortunately, by only focusing on diet and/or exercise when trying to release weight, can lead to stagnant results and a lack of motivation that keep you stuck… preventing you from releasing weight… especially those stubborn bits in all the wrong places.
While diet and exercise are an important part of a weight release program, there are two other crucial important areas that you will need to look at if you are ever to succeed in your weight release or weight gain program. You will need to look at adequate nutrition, and the part that your emotional mind plays in the equation.
Firstly, due to over production and growth of food on the planet’s available soils, the soils of the world are fast becoming deficient in essential minerals and nutrients, and as a result, we are not getting the nutrition from the food we eat like our forefathers and mothers did. So unless you are sourcing or growing your own certified organic wholefoods you are probably not getting all the nutrition your body needs.
Therefore, it’s vitally important in this modern age to supplement with high quality and preferably pharmaceutical-grade vitamins, minerals, enzymes, amino acids, probiotics and antioxidants to ensure our bodies are getting the nutrition it craves. If you are feeding your body with the correct balance of quality nutrients then the hunger cravings, and the cravings for nutrition-less junk food, processed refined packaged foods and sugary foods will subside.
Secondly, if you’ve struggled and gone from one diet and/or exercise program to another, from low-carb to Paleo, from aerobics to boot camp… you’re likely to continue the trend UNLESS you get to the root of your weight issues… both excess weight and under-weight issues… and many times those issues lie in your unconscious emotional mind. Unless addressed, stress in our daily lives can accumulate and create emotional blockages (source) in the body that show up (symptoms) as skin conditions, sickness, illness, anxiety and panic attacks, depression, chronic pain… and weight gain or weight loss.
The challenge is that the ability to eat well, exercise, and feel safe releasing weight are all run unconsciously in your emotional mind, and if your emotional mind’s belief is that it is not safe to release weight, and you do not address why, then you are setting yourself up for failure. And these negative emotional beliefs create what we call emotional blockages in the body.
Fortunately, hypnotherapy is a fast and powerful way to access your unconscious emotional mind and remove these stress-related emotional blockages, and adjust or eliminate any habits, patterns or beliefs that are no longer serving you. In our program we also use powerful specific therapeutic massage, designed to remove the emotional blockages (think stubborn fat) from your body.
Paul Holcroft and Khloe Syllebranque working together have created the Ultimate Weight Management & Stress Relief Program. A program designed for under-weight and excess-weight management success. This newly designed holistic program features specialized hypnotherapy, remedial massage and lifestyle changes for everyone wanting to bring their body back into balance.
Not only is this program a new approach to weight management issues, it also addresses other stress related issues including skin conditions, self-confidence and self-esteem issues, anxiety and panic attacks, depression, chronic fatigue, nagging pain and chronic pain in the body. Each person is consulted and assessed on an individual basis so as to ascertain the best possible approach to each individuals needs.
Your first consultation is free and is an informal meeting over coffee to discuss your individual needs from the program, and to ascertain whether the program is the best step forward for you at this time.
If you have tried everything else and are serious about getting to the source of your issues and bringing your body back into balance then the Ultimate Weight Management & Stress Relief Program is for you. Call or message us now for a free initial informal consultation on 0424 671 411 or PM us through Facebook and begin the journey back to ultimate health.
Posted in Weight Loss Secrets	| Tagged eliminate stress, lose weight, stress relief, weight loss, weight management, weight release	| Leave a comment |
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety Related Issues
Can nutritional supplements help ease stress and anxiety levels? Latest research is suggesting that balanced quality nutritional intake can bring your body and mind back into balance and, if you take steps to resolve the source of your stress and anxiety through therapy, then the results can be impressive.
Alleviate stress with the powerful nutrition
Best stress treatment
The best way to treat stress over the long term is to identify the root causes of it, and see if your lifestyle can be changed to reduce it. Much of the stress you feel will be emotional stress, which can create emotional blockages within the body and often show up as excess weight or pain in the body, and sometimes both. Hypnotherapy is a quick and powerful way to eliminate emotional stress but you can also try meditation, yoga, controlled breathing, tai chi or exercise, like relaxing walks in nature, to help cope with stress.
The following are some nutritional supplements you can try for yourself but if you are taking any medications you should always check with your physician before taking nutritional supplements as they could conflict with your medication.
Co-Q10, 5-HTP, Quercetin, L-Tryptophan, GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid), Skullcap Extract, Ashwagandha Extract, Bacopa Monnieri Extract, Valerian Root Extract, Passion Flower Extract, Hops Extract, Chamomile Extract, Melatonin, L-Theanine, Vitamin B-12, Vitamin D3, Vitamin E, Vitamin B-Complex: thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), biotin, folic acid, and the cobalamins (B12),
Probiotic: L. Helveticus (Lactobacillus helveticus), Glutamine, Chromium as Chromium AAC (Amino Acid Chelate), Phenylethylamine or PEA, Amylase, Wheat grass powder, Magnesium, Ginger Root Extract, Licorice Root, Eleuthero root extract, Citrus Aurantium Extract (Bitter Orange), Aspartic Acid, L-Serine, White Tea Extract, Satiereal™ Saffron Extract (crocus), Ginkgo leaf extract, St. John’s Wort, Phosphatidylserine, Lemon Balm, Kava, Guarana, Garcinia Cambogia, Fish Oil.
Please Note: The following ingredients research is not company supplied but based upon my own independent Google research, you are welcome to do your own research…
Co-Q10
A recent study in Cairo, Egypt has uncovered an unusual property of Co-Q10 that is rather surprising: It eliminates depression and anxiety.
After stressing out the mice with forced swimming and chronic restraint stress (CRS), something cruel kids might do, anxiety and depression were artificially induced in the mice, a standard lab gimmick. Then they were fed large amounts of Co-Q10 for three weeks.
It became apparent that most of the observed anxiety and depression abated during the Co-Q10 feeding. The biological markers also showed increased antioxidant activity in the hippocampus, reversing oxidative cellular and DNA damage.
-Source: http://www.naturalnews.com/039051_chronic_depression_Co-Q10_heart_health.html
A small study found that out of 31 patients who suffer from migraines, 19 of them reported the number of days they had migraines cut in half. Another small study of 42 migraine sufferers compared Coenzyme Q10 to an inactive placebo. In that study, of CoQ10 and migraine, the supplement was three times more likely than placebo to reduce the number of migraines.
A larger study of 1,550 patients ages 3 to 22 with migraine measured their Coenzyme Q10 levels. Of those migraine sufferers, 33 percent had low levels of CoQ10. Those with low levels received Coenzyme Q10 supplements and had fewer migraines.
-Source: https://migraine.com/migraine-treatment/natural-remedies/coenzyme-q10/
5-HTP
“5-HTP (5-hydroxytryptophan) is a naturally occurring substance derived from the seed pods of Griffonia simplicifolia, a West African medicinal plant. In humans, 5-HTP is the immediate nutrient precursor to the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT). This means that 5-HTP converts directly into serotonin in the brain (see Figure 1). Serotonin has many profoundly important functions, including a role in sleep, appetite, memory, learning, temperature regulation, mood, sexual behavior, cardiovascular function, muscle contraction, and endocrine regulation.” –Source: http://www.life-enhancement.com/magazine/article/178-5-htp-enhance-your-mood-your-sleep-and-a-lot-more
“5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), an antioxidant and a precursor to the neurotransmitter serotonin, has been shown in studies to prevent both migraines and tension-type headaches. Taking 5-HTP as a supplement is believed to help reduce headache frequency and severity by modulating serotonin and increasing endorphin levels. “
“In one clinical trial, 124 patients with chronic migraines received either 5-HTP or methysergide (a drug used to prevent migraines) for 6 months.[5] Significant improvement in frequency and number of severe attacks occurred for 71% of those in the 5-HTP group, which was the same effect achieved with the prescription medication. “
“5-HTP has also been used successfully in the prevention of chronic tension-type headaches.[6] Since 5-HTP is also beneficial for insomnia, depression, and anxiety symptoms, it is especially appropriate for individuals who have headaches accompanied by sleep or mood disorders.” -Source: https://universityhealthnews.com/daily/pain/3-therapies-for-natural-migraine-relief-and-other-headache-remedies/
The amino acid 5-hydroxytryptophan, or 5-HTP, is another natural option for upping serotonin levels. As a serotonin precursor, 5-HTP may help those for whom SSRIs like Prozac don’t seem to work, says Katie Baker, ND, owner of Stone Turtle Health, a naturopathic family medicine practice in Seattle. “SSRIs block the uptake of serotonin so it sticks around longer,” she says. But that won’t do much good if not much serotonin is around to begin with. In contrast, 5-HTP is converted into serotonin in the body. “With 5-HTP, you are not plugging up the drain, so to speak; you are just putting more into the sink,” says Baker. A six-week study of 63 people found that those who took 300 mg daily of 5-HTP had the same depression relief as those who took prescription antidepressants-but with fewer side effects.
-Source: http://www.thebetterhealthstore.com/012910_top-5-anti-depression_04.html
Quercetin
Have you ever wondered what makes a “superfood” super? Or what key superfoods like red wine, green tea, kale and blueberries all have in common? The answer is quercetin, a natural compound tied to what all of us seek: better longevity, heart health, endurance, immune system and more.
Research shows that anti-inflammatory foods containing quercetin can help manage a number of inflammatory health problems, including heart disease and blood vessel problems, allergies, infections, chronic fatigue, and symptoms related to autoimmune disorders like arthritis. -Source: https://draxe.com/quercetin/
“Quercetin has been found to powerfully stabilize mast cells, helping prevent stress-induced anxiety and allergic reactions. A chain of recent discoveries helps place the significance of these discoveries in context, with far ranging implications for human health, and improved nerve tolerance for managing stress.”
“Another new study shows that stress turns up the volume on mast cells3, priming them to release inflammatory chemicals that are typically involved with allergies, asthma, skin conditions, and digestive problems. Furthermore, the communication coming from mast cells feeds back to nerves, and modulates behaviour through a sense of anxiety.” –Source: https://www.wellnessresources.com/news/quercetin-skin-issues-and-stress
L-Tryptophan for Anxiety and Stress Relief
One of the most useful benefits Tryptophan for anxiety provides is mood regulation, through the production of the neurotransmitter Serotonin. Supplementing with L-Tryptophan and its by-product 5-HTP may improve mood and relieve stress.
Once consumed, L-Tryptophan is converted into 5-HTP (5-hydroxytryptophan) and other metabolites in the liver. 5-HTP, which is also available as a mood supplement, travels through the blood stream to the brain. Once there, it is able to cross the blood-brain barrier.
In the brain, 5-HTP is converted into Serotonin, the neurotransmitter most commonly associated with the regulation of mood.
In addition to the role it plays in regulating mood, Serotonin is also converted into the hormone Melatonin. Melatonin is a sleep-regulating neurotransmitter that controls the sleep/wake cycle (circadian rhythm).
During the day, the brain produces more Serotonin, and Melatonin production is very low. When light levels drop at dusk, Serotonin is converted more readily into Melatonin, and levels rise in the body.
Melatonin helps you stay asleep throughout the night and wake feeling rested. This may help to control anxious thoughts during the day.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/l-tryptophan-anxiety/
Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA)
What is it? Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) is a chemical made in the brain and often taken as a supplement to relieve anxiety, improve mood, reduce PMS symptoms, and treat symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Does it work? There’s limited evidence to suggest that orally-administered GABA supplements can help promote relaxation and immunity and reduce anxiety during times of stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
GABA is a highly important element in the brain. Essentially, it plays a key role in regulating the depressive neuroactivity in the human brain. In other words, it’s responsible for helping your mind switch from “work mode” to “relaxation mode”. It also plays a role in sedative changes in the brain, which are key to falling asleep at night.
How GABA helps reduce stress: GABA, in supplement form, is used for its relaxation-inducing effects, and to help relieve stress. It has also been shown to help improve mood, which can also lead to less stress in the future. Essentially, it works by blocking brain signals that incite anxiety and stressful feelings, allowing the brain to remain calm and inducing relaxation.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Skullcap Extract
Skullcap herb is an amazing plant for stress, tension, anxiety, nervousness and panic attacks. If I were pressed to simply list one application for skullcap it would be its ability to relieve stress and anxiety. It works well in acute situations and can be taken over time to decrease chronic stress (along with lifestyle modifications of course).
It works well for acute and sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks. For people susceptible to sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks, fresh skullcap tincture can be kept on them at all times.
Experienced herbal medic, Sam Coffman, shares his reliance on skullcap herb for shock-related anxiety.
Skullcap (Scutellaria spp.) and Passionflower are two that have never failed me as a formula to help someone cope quickly with shock-related anxiety. – Sam Coffman, Plant Healer Magazine 11
Not just for acute cases, skullcap can be taken over time as a nerve tonic to support nervous system health in people who have been through prolonged periods of stress and feel like their nerves are constantly on edge.
-Source: http://www.herbalremediesadvice.org/skullcap-herb.html
Ashwaghanda
I hold Ashwaghanda very high on my personal list of most effective herbs against anxiety. Ashwaghanda’s main use is to help the adrenals adjust to stress in our daily lives. It basically produces stress hormones when you need them, and stops producing them when you don’t need them, how cool is that! But the benefits of Ashwaghanda don’t end there, this ‘magic herb’ as I like to call it improves your immune function and greatly improves sleep.
-Source: https://anxietyexit.com/best-anxiety-supplements/
Promotes Graceful Aging
Stress, both metabolic and emotional, dramatically affects aging. Cortisol, the body’s stress hormone, contributes to muscle loss and weakness, wrinkles, and cognitive impairment. Research has found that Ashwagandha improves resistance to stress, possibly decreasing cortisol production. [1] One study of 64 individuals observed a reduction in stress and a significant decrease in cortisol levels in individuals taking Ashwagandha compared with placebo.
Menopausal Support
Ashwagandha acts on the endocrine system by encouraging hormone balance. A study involving 51 menopausal women supplementing with Ashwagandha noted a significant reduction in symptoms such as hot flashes, anxiety, and mood. [2]
Mood Booster
Ashwagandha is a known mood-boosting herb, and research suggests that the therapeutic plant may play a potential role in fighting mood imbalance. [6] Women battling mood swings may benefit from supplementing with Ashwagandha.
Sexual Potency
The Kama Sutra, one of the oldest surviving texts on human sexuality, mentions Ashwagandha in its literature as a potent sexual stimulant for both men and women. Research indicates that the herb supports sexual health and vitality by increasing blood flow and reducing bodily tension. Women taking Ashwagandha typically experience an increase in sexual desire and satisfaction.
Memory Support
Recent research has shown that Ashwagandha reduces memory impairment in animal models. The herb may also protect the brain from the oxidative stress that leads to neurodegeneration. Relaxation, a benefit derived from the herb’s stress-fighting effects, also improves long-term visual memory. [3] [4]
Revitalization
Another benefit many women report after taking this herb is in regards to energy levels. This anecdotal evidence is supported by scientific investigation; a recent study reported Ashwagandha’s benefits for improving energy while reducing stress-related disorders. [5]
Fertility
Stress, illness, hormone imbalance, and nutrient deficiencies — all of these issues threaten female reproductive health and make it difficult for a woman to conceive. Research shows that Ashwagandha supports thyroid function, an organ responsible for regulating hormones. [7] Also, by decreasing stress, Ashwagandha may encourage a situation that is optimal for fertility. [8] More research is needed to clarify whether or not Ashwagandha is effective for helping infertile females struggling to conceive.
-Source: https://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/7-amazing-benefits-of-Ashwagandha-root-for-women/
Bacopa monnieri
Bacopa monnieri is an herbal nootropic, a plant-based supplement that boosts brain power and reduces anxiety naturally. Bacopa monnieri is one of the oldest and most well-respected nootropic supplements. A traditional Ayurvedic medicine, sometimes referred to as Brahmi, has centuries of history as a potent cognitive enhancer, stress reliever, and brain protectant.
Bacopa monnieri is used to improve memory formation and speed of recall, make learning faster and easier, enhance clarity of thought, and augment overall brain function. It is also believed to act as a brain protectant, and studies show that it has potential as a treatment for dementia.
Bacopa has also been shown to have significant anxiolytic or anti-anxiety effects, producing a feeling of calmness and tranquility and reducing feelings of stress. Users report that it is an excellent general relaxant and can improve the quality of sleep, so they wake feeling rested and refreshed.
-Source: https://www.braintropic.com/nootropics/bacopa-monnieri/
Valerian Root
What is it? Valerian is an herb commonly used to treat insomnia, anxiety, and stress. Although it’s considered safe for most adults, the effects of long-term use are unknown. Short-term side effects include headaches and sluggishness in the morning, especially if taken at higher doses.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Some herbal supplements reduce anxiety without making you sleepy (such as L-theanine), while others are sedatives. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) is squarely in the second category. It is a sleep aid, for insomnia. It contains sedative compounds; the German government has approved it as a treatment for sleep problems.
Valerian smells kind of nasty, so most people take it as a capsule or tincture, rather than a tea. If you want to try it, take it in the evening—not before you go to work! Valerian is often combined with other sedative herbs such as hops, chamomile, and lemon balm.
-Source: http://www.health.com/health/gallery/0,,20669377,00.html#valerian-2
Valerian is a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from tension and anxiety, or have a tendency to get easily over-excited and/or hysterical. It is very calming but is unlikely to make you sleepy (although I wouldn’t suggest taking large quantities and then driving) and you can use it without any worries about getting addicted to it. If you have trouble sleeping, try taking valerian an hour or so before you go to bed. If your body gets so tense that you experience pain, taking valerian can help to relieve the discomfort. –Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Passionflower
Studies have shown that passionflower lowers anxiety in mice, but only one study has been carried out in humans, according to Lenz. That randomized, placebo-controlled study was done in 2001 in patients with general anxiety disorder, and found that 45 drops of liquid passionflower daily was as effective in treating the disorder as the drug oxazepam. Still, more research on its safety and effectiveness is needed, Lenz wrote in his study.
-Source: https://www.livescience.com/16975-herbal-supplements-stress-reduction.html
Passion flower is extremely useful if you suffer from long term insomnia. It can be taken over a long period of time. It helps you get to sleep, sleep well and wake up without any of the heavy feeling of some sleeping tablets. It has a generally tranquillizing effect. It can help to relieve restlessness, irritability, nervous stress and anxiety and can also be used where great tension is causing spasms in the body as it is also an antispasmodic. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Hops Extract
Hops work as a central nervous system relaxant. This makes them a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from insomnia and the stress states caused by not getting enough sleep. Hops help to relieve tension and anxiety and are helpful in reducing restlessness. Hops have a strong muscle relaxing effect so if being stressed gives you headaches, indigestion, stomach pains, palpitations or a nervous cough, then taking hops, especially in the form of a tincture, could prove very helpful for you.
-Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Chamomile Extract
Chamomile is a mild relaxant and sedative. A cup of chamomile tea before bed can help you to fall asleep easily and sleep well. Like lemon balm, it also has anti-spasmodic properties. This is a wonderful tea for children. It can be slightly bitter so sweeten it with a little honey if you like. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Recent clinical and laboratory research has determined that chamomile is not only relaxing, but it can significantly decrease anxiety and even fight depression.
The most recent study, from the UK’s University of Nottingham Medical School, found that chamomile significantly relaxed blood vessels and smooth muscle fibers. This effect was indicated specifically with the application of three of chamomile’s central constituents, apigenin, luteolin and bisabolol – all hydroxylates.
The fact that chamomile is an anti-anxiety and anti-depression herb was cemented by a clinical study at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. This study was done in 2009, but its data and findings were re-investigated and confirmed last year.
The researchers enlisted 19 people diagnosed with anxiety with depression, along with 16 people who were diagnosed as having a history of anxiety and depression. These groups were studied along with a control group of 22 people who had no anxiety or depression – past or present.
The study was randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled. The researchers gave the subjects either 220 milligrams of chamomile extract (standardized to 1.2% apigenin) or a placebo study, both in capsules.
The researchers found that 57% of the group using the chamomile extract had significantly reduced (greater than 50%) anxiety scores using the HAM-A system.
-Source: https://www.realnatural.org/chamomile-relaxes-fights-anxiety-and-depression/
Melatonin
What is it? A hormone produced by the brain’s pineal gland, melatonin helps control sleep cycles. Because sleep and mood are closely connected, supplementing with melatonin can alleviate stress. It’s considered safe, but can cause side effects like headaches, short-term feelings of depression, dizziness, and irritability.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Generally, people use Melatonin supplements to help with sleep disorders, such as primary insomnia. It also used for a variety of health conditions that include bipolar disorder, dementia, depression, endometriosis and anxiety.
Melatonin is a hormone made by the brain to regulate sleep cycles, but it can also play a role in mood and anxiety. It helps to control the level of stimulation and activity experienced by the body, and demonstrates anxiolytic effects.
If you have anxiety, melatonin may help make it easier to fall asleep at night, since insomnia is a common side effect of this mood disorder. It can also improve depression symptoms in patients with both anxiety and depression.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/melatonin-for-anxiety/
Theanine (L. Theanine) (Found in Green Tea)
There’s been a resurgence of interest in the anxiety-relieving powers of L-theanine, an amino acid found in green tea.1
Discoveries over the past two years have uncovered exciting additional properties of this nutrient best known for inducing calming, tranquilizing effects while simultaneously improving alertness.
L-theanine relieves anxiety in large part because it bears a close resemblance to the brain-signaling chemical glutamate. L-theanine produces the opposite effect in the brain.
While glutamate is the brain’s most important excitatory neurotransmitter, L-theanine binds to the same brain cell receptors and blocks them to glutamate’s effects. This action produces inhibitory effects.1,2 That inhibition to brain overactivity has a calming, relaxing effect in which anxiety fades.3
In addition to blocking excitatory stimuli at glutamate receptors in the brain, L-theanine also stimulates production of the inhibitory, relaxing neurotransmitter GABA, adding to its calming, anti-anxiety effects.2
Unlike prescription anti-anxiety drugs, however, some of which mimic GABA’s effects, L-theanine produces its anti-anxiety effects without producing sleepiness or impairing motor behavior.4 In fact, L-theanine has been shown in human studies to moderately improve alertness and attention while exerting its anxiety-reducing effects.5
Of particular interest are studies showing that L-theanine supplementation prevents the abrupt rise in blood pressure that some people experience under stress.1 The reason this is so critical is that many people have normal blood pressure readings at rest that spike up to dangerously high levels when subjected to stressful situations.
There’s a link between anxiety, reaction to stress, and the brain’s most fundamental function, maintaining cognition. Studies over the past two years suggest a potential role for L-theanine in supporting cognitive function and preventing its loss.
-Source: http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2016/3/brain-benefits-of-l-theanine/page-01
How L-theanine helps reduce stress: Primarily, L-theanine helps to relax the body and mind, without having sedative effects. So, it’s a great way to help manage stress, and you can use it during the day because it won’t cause drowsiness. Theanine supplements may also help to reduce the perception of stress and help you stay in a more positive mindset. Theanine has also been shown to work synergistically with other supplements, including caffeine. Research has shown a combination of 200mg of theanine with 200mg of caffeine promotes significant improvements in cognition and attention.
Many people consider L-theanine a way to “take the edge off”, so to speak. Particularly when used in combination with stimulants, like caffeine, the relaxing-but-not-sedative effects of L-theanine really come into play. Also, while most people drink caffeine on a daily basis, few people know that coffee and caffeinated beverages can actually worsen anxiety and stress symptoms. But when combined with L-theanine, you shouldn’t experience any negative effect from the caffeine, and you can still enjoy that helpful pick-me-up from a cup of coffee, combined with the calming effects of the amino acid supplement.
http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Vitamin B-12
Vitamin B12 benefits your mood, energy level, memory, heart, skin, hair, digestion and more. Vitamin B12 is also an essential vitamin for addressing adrenal fatigue, multiple metabolic functions — including enzyme production, DNA synthesis and hormonal balance — and maintaining healthy nervous and cardiovascular systems.
Because of its wide-reaching roles within the body, a vitamin B12 deficiency can show up in many different negative symptoms, many of which are very noticeable, such as potential chronic fatigue, mood disorders like depression, and chronic stress or feeling run down. Vitamin B12, sometimes also called cyanocobalamin, also helps with digestion and heart health.
Vitamin B12 benefits the central nervous system in many important ways: It helps maintain the health of nerve cells — including those needed for neurotransmitter signalling — and helps form the protective covering of nerves, called the cell’s myelin sheath. This means that when vitamin B12 levels are low, almost every cognitive function can suffer.
-Source: https://draxe.com/vitamin-b12-benefits/
Vitamin D3
There is evidence that stress, fatigue, and depression are connected to low serum levels of vitamin D, in addition to known immunity, illness and disease issues.
Dr. Lipman is the founder of the Eleven Eleven Wellness Center in NYC. He lists fatigue, restless sleep and poor concentration among other symptoms of vitamin D deficiency. Over 80% of his clients are vitamin D deficient, which correlates with the general population epidemic. [1]
Dr. Anna Dorothea Hoeck, MD, from Cologne, Germany, has treated fatigue with vitamin D therapy, using the 25(OH)D3 test first, then boosting those readings accordingly.
She has discovered with actual clinical treatments that those with lower levels of chronic fatigue recovered quickly, while more severe cases required adding minerals with the vitamin, especially calcium and magnesium.
http://www.naturalnews.com/041772_vitamin_D_levels_stress_fatigue.html
Clinical Trials have proved Vitamin D3 to be superior to Vitamin D2
A 2011 Cochrane Database study highlighted the significant differences between the two and examined mortality rates for people who supplemented their diets with Vitamin D2, versus those who did so with Vitamin D3. The analysis of 50 randomised controlled trials, which included almost 100,000 participants, showed a 6% relative risk reduction among those who used D3, and a 2% relative risk increase among those who used D2.
Your body deals with the different types very differently
According to recent research, Vitamin D3 is approximately 85% better in raising and maintaining Vitamin D concentrations in the body and produces 200-300% greater storage of Vitamin D than Vitamin D2.
With either form your body must convert it into a more active form, and Vitamin D3 is converted 500 percent faster than Vitamin D2.
Vitamin D2 has a shorter shelf life and it binds poorly with proteins in your blood which further hinders its effectiveness.
-Source: https://www.justvitamins.co.uk/blog/is-vitamin-d-the-same-as-vitamin-d3/#.WaIaoygjHIU
Vitamin E
Vitamin E is important for strong immunity and healthy skin and eyes. In recent years, vitamin E supplements have become popular as antioxidants. These are substances that protect cells from damage.
Balances Hormones
Vitamin E can play a crucial role in balancing your endocrine and nervous systems, naturally working to balance hormones naturally. (5) Symptoms of a hormonal imbalance may include PMS, weight gain, allergies, urinary tract infections, changes in the skin, anxiety and fatigue.
Helps PMS Symptoms
Taking a vitamin E supplement two to three days before and two to three days after a menstrual period can reduce the cramping, anxiety and cravings and other PMS symptoms. Vitamin E can decrease pain severity and duration, and it can reduce menstrual blood loss. It does this by balancing your hormones naturally, and it helps keep your menstrual cycle regulated.
Important during Pregnancy for Growth and Development
Vitamin E is critical during pregnancy and for proper development in infants and children because it protects critical fatty acids and helps control inflammation.
Other vitamin E benefits include its role as an important fat-soluble vitamin that’s required for the proper function of many organs, enzymatic activities and neurological processes.
Source: https://draxe.com/vitamin-e-benefits/
Vitamin B-Complex
What is it? The vitamin B-complex refers to all of the known essential water-soluble vitamins except for vitamin C: thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), biotin, folic acid, and the cobalamins (B12). B vitamins are important for cell metabolism. Most people who eat a balanced diet should have adequate B vitamins, but a vegan diet or an immune disorder such as lupus can lead to B12 deficiencies.
Does it work? Some research indicates B-complex vitamins are linked to improved mood.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
How B vitamin complex helps to reduce stress: In several clinical trials, B vitamin complex supplements have shown great potential in reducing stress levels. Taking a b-vitamin daily helped patients to improve mood by improving the body’s natural production of serotonin and other neurotransmitters. It also helped to reduce levels of homocysteine, a toxic amino acid that can lead to many health issues down the road. B vitamins also play a key role in energy production, and as you likely know, stress is much easier to counter when you’re feeling energized.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Probiotic: L. Helveticus (Lactobacillus helveticus
Supplementation with the probiotic combination of Lactobacillus helveticus R0052 and Bifidobacterium longum R0175 is an evidence-based, biologically plausible approach to addressing symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress. Studies show favorable biochemical and behavioral changes in animals treated with the probiotic, and sharp and significant decreases in symptoms of depression and anxiety in human trials.
For anyone experiencing anxiety and/or depression, regular supplementation with this probiotic combination seems a natural and worthwhile practice. It is conceivable that such supplementation could reduce reliance on prescription medications and deliver freedom from the burdens of these common mental illnesses.
-Source: http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2016/3/safely-reduce-anxiety-and-mood-disorders/page-01
Glutamine
Glutamine supplements may have a beneficial effect on depression and patients suffering from depression may have lower levels of glutamine in their brains. If you experience high levels of stress, your body may need a higher amount of glutamine, as it is easily depleted by high levels of the stress hormone cortisol.
Depression Facts
Clinical depression occurs in several forms, including major depressive disorder, seasonal affective disorder, dysthymia and postpartum depression. According to NYU Langone Medical Center, depressive symptoms vary from person to person — some people experience just a few symptoms while others may experience a combination of many symptoms.
Some of the common symptoms of depression include feelings of low self-worth, irritability, sadness, a lowered mood, sleep problems, appetite changes, a decreased sex drive, fatigue, a lack of interest in activities you once enjoyed and, in some people, suicidal thoughts or gestures. Researchers believe a number of factors contribute to depressive disorders, including genetics, stressful life events, drug and alcohol addiction, lack of social support, medical illnesses and changes in brain chemistry.
Additionally, nutritional deficiencies can also cause depression. Although research on the benefits of glutamine for depression is limited, some people believe that it may help reduce depressive symptoms.
Clinical Evidence
A study published in the February 2007 issue of the “Archives of General Psychiatry,” a peer-reviewed journal published by the American Medical Association, found that depressed study participants had lowered levels of glutamine in their prefrontal brain tissue. However, most of the evidence confirming the benefits of glutamine supplementation on depression is anecdotal.
A systematic review published in 2002 in the “Medical Journal of Australia” states that only an uncontrolled experiment has been performed to verify the benefits of glutamine supplements on depression.
The experiment referred to is a study published in the July-August 1976 issue of the Belgian medical journal, “Acta Psychiatrica Belgica.” This study showed that l-glutamine supplementation showed antidepressant properties on adult study participants suffering from depression. However, more clinical research is needed to fully evaluate the potential benefit of glutamine supplementation on depression.
Considerations
Glutamine supplements are sold online and in health food stores in powder and capsule form. However, you should not use glutamine as a cure for depression or as a substitute for conventional medical care. -Source: http://www.livestrong.com/article/477074-glutamine-depression/
Chromium as Chromium AAC (Amino Acid Chelate)
Chelated chromium is a nutritional supplement that allows cells to receive and absorb blood sugar for energy, according to Source Naturals. Chelation is the process of bonding with amino acids. This bond allows the mineral content to stay intact, and it provides maximum assimilation into the body.
Chromium is also used for depression, Turner’s syndrome, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), lowering “bad” cholesterol, raising “good” cholesterol in people taking heart medications called beta blockers, metabolic syndrome, heart attack, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and binge eating disorder.
-Source: https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Chromium-HealthProfessional/
Phenylethylamine or PEA
PEA supplements are great for helping with the symptoms of anxiety. Since PEA is so good at increasing natural levels of dopamine, which is one of the ‘feel-good’ hormones, it is great at combatting negative feelings of anxiety.[7]
Low levels of dopamine are known to cause anxiety and depression, along with a number of other mental illnesses. Taking phenylethylamine boosts your dopamine levels.[8] Increased dopamine levels make you feel happier, calmer and more sensual.
Another great benefit is phenylethylamine for studying. By increasing catecholamines and dopamine, phenylethylamine give a clear focus and energy boost, associated with increases in cognitive power and learning capabilities.
-Source: https://liftmode.com/blog/people-use-phenylethylamine/
Phenylethylamine Benefits:
May significantly improve mood and produce overall feeling of well-being
Helpful for reducing high levels of stress and anxiety
Known to assist with those experiencing symptoms of depression
A common element used in treating anxiety and depression
Produces higher energy levels
Minimize fatigue that can often be associated with depression anxiety symptoms
Ability to increase Acetylcholine levels. Increased levels of this neurotransmitter will commonly result in faster memory recall and retention.
Many have reported improved attention span and overall learning aptitude.
Enhanced ability in focus and concentration
-Source: http://focushereandnow.com/nootropics/phenylethylamine/
Amylase
Stress is by far one of the worst things in the world for your health, particularly chronic stress. Research is showing that amylase can be a very helpful and accurate marker of stress levels.
One study looked at the whether or not the salivary enzyme alpha-amylase could indicate stress-reactive bodily changes. Researchers repeatedly measured salivary alpha-amylase and salivary cortisol as well as plasma catecholamines and cardiovascular activity before, during and after 30 young men underwent the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). Results indicated that salivary alpha-amylase is sensitive to psychosocial stress and may be a very helpful additional parameter for the measurement of stress in humans. (9)
-Source: https://draxe.com/amylase/
Wheat grass powder
Wheatgrass powder is made by freeze-drying, oven-drying or air-drying fresh wheatgrass. Adding wheatgrass to your diet is an effective way to get your quota of five to nine servings of fruits and vegetables a day, according to Illinois State University.
Restores pH Balance
Wheatgrass is an alkaline food supplement and it balances the body’s pH levels. Hence, it is beneficial for reducing the acidity in the blood and restoring its alkalinity (9).
Reduces Fatigue
Tiredness often symbolizes sleep deprivation and a weak immune system, which can be effectively treated with the help of wheatgrass. This amazing ingredient contains chlorophyll, which, apart from boosting our immune system, also assists in cell regeneration. This, in turn, helps heal our body and reduces fatigue. Additionally, chlorophyll helps boost our adrenal system, which is essential for the prevention of chronic fatigue.
Helps Improve Mood
Wheatgrass also helps uplift your mood in a number of ways; it is rich in vitamin K and magnesium. It boosts the adrenal system and helps your body deal with stress. Additionally, wheatgrass contains a good quantity of iron, the deficiency of which can cause fatigue that eventually worsens your mood. It also helps fight depression.
Increases Libido: Consuming wheatgrass powder regularly helps in enhancing the reproductive health of both men and women. It also increases vigor and helps in conception (21).
Is Good For The Liver
With its detoxifying properties, wheatgrass can revitalize your liver. In a study conducted in 2014, it has also been shown that having wheatgrass regularly can protect the liver from the harmful effects of alcohol. -Source: http://www.stylecraze.com/articles/benefits-of-wheatgrass-powder-for-skin-hair-and-health/
Magnesium
What is it? Magnesium is a mineral essential for nerve and muscle function. Although most people who eat a balanced diet get enough magnesium, an analysis of data from the 2005-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) found that a majority of Americans consume less than they should.
The supplement is considered safe, but side effects can include stomach upset, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea. Rarely, large doses can cause irregular heartbeat and low blood pressure.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Although it is found in several dietary sources, as well as included in most multivitamins, magnesium deficiency is extremely common. An estimated 57% of Americans do not get adequate magnesium in their diets, and that number is even higher in many other countries. A deficiency in magnesium can cause all sorts of health problems, and can worsen stress and anxiety. The good news is that it’s easy to fix magnesium deficiency by changing your diet or adding a supplement.
http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Ginger Root Extract
Ginger Increases Brain Levels of Important Neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are chemicals used by brain cells to communicate with each other. They control your ability to focus, concentrate, and remember, and regulate mood, cravings, addictions, sleep, and more.
It’s estimated that 86% of Americans have suboptimal levels of neurotransmitters. (13) Ginger increases levels of these important brain chemicals, including dopamine and serotonin. (14) Dopamine is considered the “motivation molecule” that helps you get focused and be productive. It’s also in charge of your pleasure-reward system. Serotonin is your “happiness molecule” that is critical for keeping up a positive mood.
Ginger Root Reduces Adrenal Fatigue
Overwhelming tiredness is not the only symptom of adrenal fatigue. Other symptoms include brain fog, depression, anxiety, insomnia, and an inability to handle stress. (29)
Dr. Michael Lam is an expert on adrenal fatigue syndrome and the author of Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome – Reclaim Your Energy and Vitality with Clinically Proven Natural Programs.
He recommends ginger root along with ginkgo and ginseng as part of his natural adrenal fatigue protocol. (30) These adaptogenic herbs strengthen the adrenals, increase resilience to stress, and modulate levels of the stress hormone cortisol. -Source: https://bebrainfit.com/ginger-root-benefits/
Licorice Root
There is research that shows that the Glycyrrhizic acid that is in licorice root can help with nervousness and depression by encouraging the function of the adrenal glands. Our adrenal glands control stress hormones including cortisol. When one’s stress hormone levels are low it can often be the cause of persistent fatigue, melancholy, anxiety, and having less resistance to infections and allergens. Licorice root also happens to also have the Asparagine amino acid that is needed to preserve equilibrium in the body’s nervous system.
-Source: http://www.naturalalternativeremedy.com/nine-health-benefits-of-licorice-root/
Eleuthero root extract
Some of the most important health benefits of eleuthero include its ability to help relieve stress, increase cognitive function, boost the immune system, reduce fatigue, lower inflammation, protect heart health, prevent degenerative diseases, boost respiratory health, and increase energy levels.
Reduce Fatigue
One of the major claims to fame for eleuthero is its ability to boost energy levels. This is accomplished by its impact on the nervous system, boosting the metabolism, increasing circulation, and reducing cloudiness and fatigue. For people who regularly need naps during the day, feel the mid-day exhaustion following a large meal, or find themselves tired without a good explanation, regular supplementation with eleuthero can get you back to normal.
Stress Relief
Eleuthero is considered an adaptogen, one of those rare herbs that can actually help your body adapt and change to better handle various stimuli or conditions. For example, eleuthero has been shown to improve user response to stress, namely in the way that their body responds when anxious or upset. Eleuthero’s powerful components actually teach the body to handle bio-chemical situations in the best way possible.
A Final Word of Warning
There is some controversy about the various applications of eleuthero, and it’s important to understand the risks. If you suffer from certain mental conditions (mania or insomnia) or hormone-related disorders, it can be dangerous to take eleuthero. Also, in the case of heart conditions, diabetes, or cancer, eleuthero use can be beneficial, but only under the strict guidance of your medical provider. This is a very powerful herb and can have complex interactions with other drugs, so caution and consultation is highly recommended.
-Source: https://www.organicfacts.net/health-benefits/herbs-and-spices/eleuthero.html
Citrus Aurantium Extract (Bitter Orange)
Background and objectives
Reducing anxiety is very important before operation. Preoperative visit and use of premedication are popular methods to achieve this goal, but the role of anxiolytic premedication remains unclear and postoperative side-effects may result from routine premedication.
Citrus aurantium is used as an alternative medicine in some countries to treat anxiety, and recently the anxiolytic role of this medicinal plant was established in an animal model study. The aim of this study was to assess the anxiolytic effect of Citrus aurantium blossom on preoperative anxiety.
Methods
We studied 60 ASA I patients undergoing minor operation. In a randomized double-blind design, two groups of 30 patients received one of the following oral premedication two hours before induction of anesthesia: 1) Citrus aurantium blossom distillate 1 mL.kg-1 (C-group); 2) Saline solution 1 mL.kg-1 as placebo (P-group). Anxiety was measured before and after premedication using the Spielberger state-trait anxiety inventory (STAI-state) and the Amsterdam preoperative anxiety and information scale (APAIS) before operation.
Results
After premedication, both the STAI-state and the APAIS scales were decreased in C-group (p < 0.05); while exhibiting no significant changes in P-group.
Conclusions
Citrus aurantium blossom may be effective in terms of reduction in preoperative anxiety before minor operation.
-Source: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034709411700794
Aspartic Acid (Women’s Formula Only)
Aspartic acid, also known as L-aspartate, is thought to help promote a robust metabolism, and is sometimes used to treat fatigue and depression. Aspartic acid plays an important role in the citric acid cycle, or Krebs cycle, during which other amino acids and biochemicals, such as asparagine, arginine, lysine, methionine, threonine, and isoleucine, are synthesized.
Aspartic acid gets its reputation as a treatment for chronic fatigue from the crucial role it plays in generating cellular energy. Aspartic acid moves the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) molecules from the main body of the cell to its mitochondria, where it is used to generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the fuel that powers all cellular activity.
In short, the more NADH a cell has, the more chemical fuel it produces, and the more energy you have to get through your day. (Some studies have shown that aspartic acid actually increases both stamina and endurance levels in athletes.) In addition, this amino acid helps transport minerals needed to form healthy RNA and DNA to the cells, and strengthens the immune system by promoting increased production of immunoglobulins and antibodies (immune system proteins).
Aspartic acid keeps your mind sharp by increasing concentrations of NADH in the brain, which is thought to boost the production of neurotransmitters and chemicals needed for normal mental functioning. It also removes excess toxins from the cells, particularly ammonia, which is very damaging to the brain and nervous system as well as the liver.
-Source: http://www.vitaminstuff.com/amino-acid-aspartic-acid.html
Aspartic acid is used as a testosterone booster aging and infertile men. Men taking D-aspartic acid during the 90-day study dramatically improved sperm count and motility. As a result, they became more fertile and pregnancies increased among their partners. [7]
After taking D-aspartic acid for 12 days, participants increased lutheinizing hormone and testosterone levels by 33% and 42%, respectively.[8] These are just a few benefits of high testosterone levels:
Greater muscle growth and strength
Fat loss
Better sleep quality
High libido
Positive mood
More Energy
Aspartic Acid is also used by athletes as a temporary booster. Elevated testosterone levels only last a week to a week and a half in healthy men, with testosterone returning to normal afterward.
During the 1950s and 1960s, European researchers discovered a simple and inexpensive way to treat physical and mental fatigue — including the kind caused by chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).aspartic acidThey found that aspartic acid supplements could seriously boost stamina and alertness and benefit health in many ways.
It’s no wonder that scientists believe aspartic acid can cure CFS. In fact, CFS may result from a deficiency of aspartic acid, which lowers cellular energy — and subsequently decreases your stamina.
Aspartic acid is responsible for the production of cellular fuel. The more of it your body has, the more energy you have throughout your day.
A study published in The Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences in September of 2006 documented that additional energy was created when rats were dosed with aspartic acid. For the study, 2 groups of rats swam until metabolic exhaustion set in. Researchers noted that the exhaustion point for the group given aspartic acid arrived after a significantly longer swim time.
The results of the study indicate that aspartic acid will typically increase physical endurance. Recent studies conducted with human athletes support these conclusions.
The athletes who took mineral salt preparations of aspartic acid experienced greater aerobic competency. It also appeared that the mineral salts increased endurance and stamina levels overall.
Other studies showed that 75% to 94% of patients suffering fatigue due to a multitude of different causes experienced notable improvement when treated with aspartic acid.
In fact, in one study of 80 patients who had struggled with post-surgical fatigue for more than one year, one gram of potassium-magnesium aspartate twice daily brought more than 90% complete relief from all symptoms within 2 weeks.
-Source: http://undergroundhealthreporter.com/aspartic-acid-the-key-to-a-healthy-metabolism/
L-Serine (Women’s Formula Only)
The syndrome fibromyalgia is a chronic disorder that affects many people. It is characterised by diffuse tenderness, widespread pain, cognitive disturbance and fatigue. The exact causes of fibromyalgia are unknown, however people suffering from this condition have lower levels of serine in their blood compared with healthy people.
Source: http://aminoacidstudies.org/l-serine/
Recent research being done in Australia has led to the conclusion that people who suffer from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFIDS), especially those with more neurological symptoms, may actually have a treatable amino acid deficiency. At the February 1998 CFIDS conference in Sydney, doctors from Newcastle University in Callaghan, Australia, who have formed the Collaborative Pain Research Unit (CPRU), presented their intriguing discovery that a substantial number of CFIDS patients have a deficiency in the amino acid, serine.
Source: http://www.prohealth.com/library/showarticle.cfm?libid=428
D-serine vs. L-serine
This article includes references from studies using both enantiomers of serine. The two may have somewhat similar effects since L-serine is converted to D-serine by serine racemase, an enzyme that requires vitamin B6 to function. It is thus important to supplement vitamin B6 when supplementing L-serine.
Mood and Depression
D-serine produces both acute[1] and chronic[2] antidepressant effects in animal models. Chronic use was also reported to lower markers of anxiety. Studies have also shown that it may prevent cognitive impairment in subjects exposed to stressful situations[3] (like a job interview) but not in normal day-to-day situations. D-serine, therefore, does not strictly meet the definition of a nootropic. It is, however, ubiquitous in the body, and with many interesting effects in promoting cerebral health, certainly a worthy supplement.
-Source: https://nootropix.com/sarcosine-d-serine/
White Tea Extract
White tea flavonoids and Caffeine can ease depression by stimulating release of hormones in brain and thus reduce stress.
This remarkable tea has also been shown to fight free radicals from sun, stress and poor diet, and reverse some of the signs of aging. According to a study by Kingston University in London, it seems that white tea may be an interesting option for reducing and preventing wrinkles. Out of 21 different compounds tested, white tea was found to contain by far the highest concentration of antioxidants.
Is there anything this tea doesn’t help improve? Well, let’s see here, white tea may also reduce blood sugar and lessen the symptoms of diabetes. This astounding tea has shown to reduce stress and yet increase energy levels. Now who doesn’t want to have more energy throughout the day?
-Source: https://draxe.com/health-benefits-of-white-tea/
Satiereal™ Saffron Extract (crocus):
Satiereal is the name given to an extract from saffron. The extract is called Crocus Sativus.
“Modern pharmacological studies have demonstrated that saffron extract or its constituents have antidepressant,[51] anti-inflammatory,[10] anti-tumor effects, radical-scavenging, learning and memory improving properties.[52–54]”
-Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3249922/
“In a 2005 study of women who were depressed, 45 women were randomly given 30 mg of saffron or a placebo for 6 weeks. Women getting the saffron (Crocus sativus, which is what Satiereal comes from) scored better on depression questioners compared to women who got the placebo.”
“Several other studies exist, which also hint that saffron can help mild to moderate depression too.” -Source: https://supplement-geek.com/thrive-patch-review/
Ginkgo leaf extract
Ginkgo’s been widely studied for its effective anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, platelet-forming and circulation-boosting effects. According to current research, ginkgo biloba benefits include improved cognitive function, positive mood, increased energy, improved memory and reduced symptoms related to multiple chronic diseases — for instance, it’s been used as an asthma natural remedy, ADHD natural remedy and dementia treatment. In fact, it’s believed to be so effective that it’s even a prescription herb in Germany! -Source: https://draxe.com/ginkgo-biloba-benefits/
Phosphatidylserine
What is it?: Phosphatidylserine (PS) occurs naturally in the body and supports cellular function, especially in the brain. Although the supplement form is considered safe for most adults and children, it can cause side effects like insomnia and stomach upset, particularly at doses over 300 mg.
Does it work?: Some research suggests that athletes taking PS during strenuous training might experience less muscle soreness, but there are conflicting results. One study found preliminary evidence that a combination of soy-based PS and lecithin may moderate the body’s reaction to stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Lemon Balm
What is lemon balm: Lemon balm, known formally as melissa officinalis, is a herbal plant that is often used in herbal teas and supplements. It’s known for its calming, relaxing effects, and is a favourite amongst those seeking an all-natural way to help inspire relaxation.
It has mild sedative effects for some people, but they are mellow enough that this herb can be taken during the day. Lemon balm has been used for centuries in traditional medicine from several ancient cultures. Its positive effects have been proven in many clinical trials, and it’s gentle, all-natural makeup makes it a great product to try.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Kava
What is kava: Kava, otherwise known as kava kava or piper methysitcum, is the root of a pepper found naturally in the Pacific Islands. For generations, it has been used as a ceremonial drink by Pacific Islanders. It has significant anxiety-reducing effects.
In several studies, supplemental kava has been shown to offer potent relaxing qualities. This is why we added it to this guide to the best stress supplements. This ancient remedy is relevant as ever in the modern age, and when used properly, can do wonders for your stress and anxiety levels.
How kava helps reduce anxiety: In clinical trials, kava has been shown to elevate mood, induce relaxation, and improve stress management. Kava root contains natural compounds known as kavalactones, which have psychoactive effects on the brain, helping to provide a natural, narcotic-free way to reduce anxiety. Kava may also be useful in treating insomnia, menopausal mood swings, and several other health concerns.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
St. John’s Wort
In one study of 40 patients with social anxiety disorder, taking St. John’s wort for two weeks seemed to slightly improve anxiety symptoms; however, the difference between the groups in the study may have been due to chance, and the study itself was poorly designed, according to Lenz.
Many herbal supplements are sedatives and should not be taken with other sedative drugs or alcohol, Lenz said.
-Source: https://www.livescience.com/16975-herbal-supplements-stress-reduction.html
Guarana
“Guarana acts on the central nervous system to prevent fatigue and break down lactic acid from muscle stress. Guarana also discourages blood clots, stimulates the urinary system, and promotes production of digestive juices. Guarana was used to treat diarrhea, decrease fatigue, reduce hunger, and to help arthritis. Guarana has been thought as a high energy source that increases mental alertness, slows the pulse, decreases the appetite, fights fatigue, an excellent mood elevator.” –Source: https://www.practo.com/healthfeed/8-benefits-of-eating-guarana-3438/post
Guarana is marketed as the rocket fuel behind energy drinks and demonised as a dangerous form of supercharged caffeine, but what’s the naked truth to this Brazilian herb?
Guaraná contains caffeine, the stimulant found in coffee, tea, yerba mate, colas and chocolate. “Guaraná also contains a whole mix of other compounds that act together to stimulate you over and above its caffeine content,” says Professor Stephen Myers, Director of NatMed-Research at Southern Cross University.
In fact, at the University of Tasmania a study comparing the effects of coffee, guaraná and yerba mate showed that guaraná produced the greatest alertness and improvement in the performance of mental tasks. Coffee produced a peak in alertness after about 30-45 minutes then rapidly fell away, while the effects of guaraná were still continuing – and increasing – after 150 minutes. “There might be substances in guaraná that delay the metabolism of caffeine or slows the absorption of caffeine to prolong its effect,” Professor Myers explains.
Like other forms of caffeine, guaraná may interact with certain medications, and too much guaraná carries all the risks associated with high levels (over 300mg) of caffeine – insomnia, trembling, anxiety, dehydration and palpitations. Unlike coffee, however, laboratory tests have shown no evidence of toxicity even in large doses, but guaraná should be avoided during pregnancy and lactation, or when there is high blood pressure.
-Source: http://www.bodyandsoul.com.au/health/health-news/health-benefits-of-guarana/news-story/9425c1e8cd9d759c26a10b8f8d292cde
Garcinia Cambogia
Garcinia cambogia (GC) is a small pumpkin-shaped fruit that grows in Southeast Asia and India. The key active ingredient found in garcinia cambogia is Hydroxycitric Acid (HCA), which some research suggests can help certain people lose weight. Developing research suggests that HCA might prevent fat storage, control appetite, and increase exercise endurance.
This weight loss supplement does more than just inhibit fat development. It also affects the brain. It is important to understand how garcinia cambogia improves your mood and how this affects weight loss.
The main ingredient in Garcinia Cambogia is called Hydroxycitric Acid, or HCA. HCA affects the body in a few different ways. It prevents your body from storing unused carbohydrates as fat that could add to your weight.
It also creates a full sensation while eating so that it becomes easier to consume fewer calories while dieting. The third important effect is that the HCA in Garcinia Cambogia increases the production of serotonin in the brain. Higher levels of serotonin have been proven to improve mood over time.
Serotonin is a key neurotransmitter in the brain. It is responsible for several things. Serotonin helps to regulate many functions in the body. It also allows messages to pass freely through the brain. Low levels of serotonin can lead to lethargic behavior, depression and anxiety. These factors can put you in a bad mood regardless of what is really happening around you.
Taking Garcinia Cambogia regularly will naturally stimulate the production of serotonin in your brain. You will begin to feel emotionally better. You will have fewer problems with depression, anxiety and feelings of hopelessness.
-Source: http://garciniacambogiaexpert.com/how-does-garcinia-cambogia-improve-your-mood/
Fish Oil
Neuroscientist, Dr. Andrew Stoll, from Harvard Medical School has found that natural sources of the essential fatty-acid, omega-3, which is found in oily fish like salmon and mackerel, can help bring mood back into balance.
-Source: https://anxietyexit.com/best-anxiety-supplements/
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
Is Your Thyroid Out of Balance?
Posted on July 2, 2017 by ihbPT
Is Your Thyroid Out of Balance?
Telltale Signs that Your Thyroid may be out of Balance:
Fatigue: If you are getting plenty of regular sleep but still wake up tired it is possible that your thyroid hormone level may be low. If your mind is constantly active and you cannot seem to sleep at night then you may have an over-active thyroid (hyperthyroidism). Either way, your thyroid hormones may well be out of balance.
Anxiety & Panic Episodes: If you suffer from mood swings, anxiety, panic episodes or depression, this can also be an indication of a thyroid disorder (hyperthyroidism).
Brain Fog: If you get days where you feel as though you’re walking around in a fog all day, your thyroid may be out of balance.
How’s Your Poop? Often people with an under active thyroid (hypothyroidism) complain of constipation, and those with an over active thyroid (hyperthyroidism) have the opposite; diarrhoea or more frequent sloppy bowel movements.
Weight Management Issues: If you’re eating habits have not changed, you exercise regularly but still cannot seem to remove stubborn excess weight, the cause may be an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism).
3 Fatty Acids in Coconut Oil that Your Thyroid Craves
The unique medium-chain fatty acid profile of coconut oil is what makes it stand apart from all other oils and gives it the ability to help the body self-regulate (something it is quite able to do).
These fatty acids, including lauric acid (found in a mother’s breast milk), are small enough that they can be gobbled up by the mitochondria in the cells. Because of this, they provide immediate energy for the body.
Lauric acid is converted to monolaurin, which is a potent antiviral, antibacterial, and antiprotozoal substance. Because monolaurin is a monoglyceride, it can destroy lipid-coated viruses including measles, influenza, HIV, herpes and a number of pathogenic bacteria.
Another fatty acid that coconut oil contains is caprylic acid, also found in breast milk. Also known as octanoic acid, this saturated fatty acid has a number of health promoting properties and the innate ability to treat yeast-like fungus in the intestines.
Capric acid is present in very small amounts in goat’s milk and cow’s milk, but is abundant in tropical oils, including coconut oil.
It is a medium-chain fatty acid that has potent antimicrobial and antiviral properties. In the body, capric acid is converted to monocaprin, a form that can readily fight viruses, bacteria, and the yeast Candida albicans.
Because of this unique combination of fatty acids, coconut oil suppresses inflammation and repairs tissue while inhibiting microorganisms that cause the inflammation in the first place.
Polyunsaturated oils are the real enemy and many people still prefer to cook with expeller-pressed or solvent-extracted oils. If you cook with vegetable oil, it is time to stop. These oils are only increasing inflammation in your body. If you have reason to believe that your thyroid may be working only half time for you, make the switch today to organic cold-pressed coconut oil.
Not all coconut oil is created equal… and some are better than others. As was the case when coconut oil was used heavily in the food processing industry years ago, there is still a lot of refined coconut oil in circulation. Obviously, the more processed the oil, the less health benefits it possesses. –Source: http://pages.thealternativedaily.com/alerts-click-coconut-thyroid/
Other Natural Ways to Improve Thyroid Function
In addition to including coconut oil in your diet, try these other natural ways to balance your thyroid function.
Switch from iodized table salt to sea salt, as it has more minerals that help support better thyroid functioning.
Chronic stress is said to be one of the main triggers of hypothyroidism so practicing stress reduction techniques such as meditation and deep-breathing can help as can regular de-stress hypnotherapy sessions.
Follow a gluten-free diet has also been shown to improve thyroid function. Research has found a link between wheat allergies and thyroid disease.
Avoid chemicals like triclosan, which is commonly found in items like antibacterial soap, deodorant, lotions, and even in cutting boards.
.. this is especially important to correct thyroid function. Walking briskly for 30 minutes a day is a good place to start.
Supplement with probiotics, vitamins and minerals. Many natural herbs can also assist in weight management and bringing the body back into balance.
Take high-quality supplements, such as zinc, selenium, manganese, chromium, B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin A and vitamin E.
High Quality Supplementation
If supplementation is a constant battle for you, you may want to try the 8-week Thrive experience: the world’s only wearable nutrition. The products in the 8-week program include probiotics, vitamins, minerals and herb supplements all in the one easy-to-follow program. Ideal for weight management and increased energy… and helping you bring your body back into balance… Check it out by Clicking Here Before long, you will not only feel better, but you may be surprised at how well your pants fit!
Posted in Anxiety and Stress	| Tagged anxiety, brain fog, fatigue, panic attacks, stress, thyroid, weight loss, weight management	| Leave a comment |
WHAT IS HYPNOSIS?
Posted on October 8, 2015 by ihbPT
WHAT IS HYPNOSIS?
Many successful people including sports professionals, CEO’s, movie directors, professional actors and other celebrities use Hypnotherapy on a regular basis to stay on track toward their goals. Dr. Steve G. Jones is a master hypnotist who has worked with many celebrities and he quotes in Forbes Magazine:
“It’s remarkable just how many celebrities use hypnosis—how many CEOs and heads of production companies… It’s sort of a secret weapon for a lot of very successful, very wealthy people.”
One of the key areas where hypnotherapists have been having amazing success is in the area of removing stress from people’s lives, family stress, relationship stress, workplace stress, and environmental stresses.
Stress is something we all try to deal with on a day-to-day basis and unfortunately, is also at the core of many aliments and diseases in our bodies. Unless we remove the core issue… the condition will persist.
By listening to this recording you’ll gain valuable information about what hypnosis can do for you. I’ll also dispel some of the myths associated with hypnosis.
Many people are not aware of the benefits of hypnosis, which are the life changing, permanent benefits that occur by working with the subconscious mind rather than consciously analysing and battling through your challenges.
Hypnosis is NOT about ‘fixing you’… it is about ‘empowering you’ with techniques and processes that you can use ongoing to create the life you want.
Hypnosis is NOT a ‘done to you’ process, it is a process where the hypnotherapist is merely the facilitator; guiding you, through different processes, to a state of deep relaxation where YOU can effectively choose to create the changes YOU desire to manifest into your life.
There are many misguided perceptions on what hypnosis is and how it is achieved, which have been fuelled by lack of understanding, television shows and stage performances. Some people believe hypnosis to be a form of mind control but this is simply not true.
It is not possible to hypnotize someone against their will and, it is not possible to hypnotize someone to do something or perform actions that are against their morals or values. During hypnosis the subject is always in full control and can terminate the session at any time.
Hypnosis is a ‘waking state’ of trance or deep relaxation, not dissimilar to visualization and meditation, which allows the subject disassociate from day-to-day conscious awareness and narrow their focus and open their subconscious mind to heightened suggestibility.
You see if you imagine the mind is like an iceberg… the conscious mind is what is above the surface, the things we see and do every day. The unconscious mind is the large mass under the surface where we record and store the memory of every event, experience and emotion we encounter in our lives.
Hypnosis has been clinically proven to provide powerful medical and therapeutic benefits and is a gentle, safe and natural… yet extremely powerful process, which is capable of creating positive life-changing results on many different levels.
Issues including lack of self-confidence, lack of self-esteem or self worthiness, anxiety and panic attacks, migraine headaches, lower back pain, cigarette smoking, and weight loss challenges are many times tied to stress factors in the body. In fact over 70% of weight issues are stress related, which is why no matter how many diets you go on or how many grueling exercise regimes you participate in, you will never attain the weight you desire unless you tackle the core issue.
So just approach it with an open your mind and experience the gentle yet powerful process of Hypnotherapy… you will not be disappointed.
Posted in Hypnotherapy	| Tagged anxiety, how does hypnosis work, hypnosis, hypnotherapy, panic attacks, relationships, weight issues, weight loss, what is hypnosis	| Leave a comment |
THE BENEFITS OF MACA EXPLODE
Posted on August 24, 2014 by ihbPT
THE BENEFITS OF MACA EXPLODE
Would you like to get out of bed each day energised and brimming with vigour, feeling lively, energised and rejuvenated? Ensure you get your Premium Maca Extract Superfood fix today and experience the transformation.
Maca is a root vegetable grown in the Peruvian Andes. It was sacred to the Incas and has been used as a food and medicine in South America for centuries. It is well known for its ability to help enhance strength and endurance; in fact, Inca warriors would often consume maca before long journeys and battles.
Maca Explode is a micro-pulverised, highly absorbent, 4:1 concentration of the most important elements in maca — a little goes a long way! Maca Extreme contains less starch and fibre than standard maca, making it ideal for those with difficulty digesting certain types of coniferous vegetables.
Eden Health Foods: Raising the Standard
Traditional maca powder is made by grinding up sun-dried maca roots. Eden Health Foods Maca Extract is created by juicing fresh certified organic maca roots and using a cold-drying process (RAW) which generates a uniquely powerful concentration not found anywhere else.
They have called it MACA EXPLODE because of its outstanding effects on the body. Eden Health Foods Maca extract can be used in place of or in combination with regular maca powder in all recipes.
Be careful, 1 teaspoon is the same a consuming 2 tablespoons of maca powder and is absorbed much quicker and better. Don’t take late at night… unless you want to stay up all night.
Maca is a nutritionally dense super-food that contains high amounts of minerals, vitamins, enzymes and all of the essential amino acids. Maca root is rich in B-vitamins, which are the energy vitamins, and Maca is a vegetarian source of B-12. To boot, Maca has high levels of calcium and magnesium and is great for mineralising the body.
Maca root helps balance our hormones and due to an over abundance of environmental oestrogens, most people’s hormones are a bit out of whack. Maca stimulates and nourishes the hypothalamus and pituitary glands which are the “master glands” of the body. These glands actually regulate the other glands, so when in balance they can bring balance to the adrenal, thyroid, pancreas, ovarian and testicular glands.
Instead of providing hormones to the body, Maca works as an adaptogen which means that it responds to different bodies’ needs individually. If you’re producing too much of a particular hormone, Maca will regulate the production downward. However, if you’re producing too little, it’ll regulate the production upward.
Hormones regulate many things including mood, growth, sexual development, and tissue function. Hormones also play a role in many diseases, like cancer and depression.
Women’s Health and Mood: Health Benefits of Maca Root For Women
Maca relieves menstrual issues and menopause. It alleviates cramps, body pain, hot flashes, anxiety, mood swings, and depression. Maca is also known for providing effective relief from symptoms of menopause, and turbo-charging sexual drive in females. A 2004 US study found Maca could provide a substantial relief from menopausal symptoms including hot flushes, loss of libido, vaginal dryness, depression and insomnia.
“What the Maca root does is to stimulate the hypothalamus and pituitary glands. These glands then trigger the adrenals, ovaries, thyroid, and pancreas to begin functioning in a healthier manner, thus causing them to begin producing natural hormones again.
Miranda Kerr, Victoria’s Secret Model, began touting the wonders Maca Root has done for her skin (and if you’ve seen her skin you’ll know its glowing and translucent), and now the world is really listening. What can you lose from trying this for yourself? Possibly a generous amount of weight, cellulite, depression, and saggy dull skin!” -Source: http://www.glow30.com
Weight Loss
Maca powder can help with your weight loss plan as it burns your fat cells to create energy. Now we are not saying that this will happen overnight, but use your common sense. The more fat your body burns for energy, the less fat gets stored around your gut, hips and thighs. Combine Maca Explode Extract with an alkaline based diet and get some regular exercise happening and you will start to discover the new you in no time.
Energy Booster
Within days of using Maca your energy level may increase. It is also known for increasing stamina. Many athletes and body-builders take Maca for extra energy and peak performance. If you find yourself tired most of the time, experiment with Maca to see if it helps. Just a small amount could be exactly what you need for that extra boost!
Protein
Maca is a root food and grows like a radish (doesn’t taste like one though) and has 10-14 % protein content, which is really high for a plant based food.
Vitamins
Maca is rich in vitamin B vitamins, C, and E. It provides plenty of calcium, zinc, iron, magnesium, phosphorous and amino acids.
Lowers Stress and Enhances Mood
If you find yourself overcome with anxiety, stress, depression or mood swings, Maca may help alleviate these symptoms, though of the evidence is anecdotal, many have reported enhanced mood and an increase in mental energy and focus. A 2006 study on mice found Maca showed antidepressant activity.
This magic herb is loaded with mood-enhancing phytochemicals and nutrients that increase your energy levels, gives you clear mental concentration, puts a smile on your face and makes you feel super happy which radiates from the inside out. Its mood-enhancing qualities gives you a euphoric feeling making you feel positive, confident and happy.
Sexual function
Maca is widely used to promote sexual function of both men and women. It serves as a boost to your libido and increases endurance. At the same time it balances your hormones and can help increase fertility. A 2001 study found Maca improved sperm production and motility. Double-charge your sex life with Maca Energy Explode.
What about Taste?
Now I know what you are thinking… almost all-herbal potions that you mix with water and drink, generally taste disgusting and tend to make you feel like gagging each time you drink them. But Maca is different; it has a slight caramel smell and taste and we have found it best taken in a breakfast fruit smoothie or mixed with almond or coconut milk on your breakfast cereal. In summer try mixing with a filtered water fruit smoothie for a lighter summer energy boost.
Watch out though…. Its effect is contagious… when you feel super happy and you are around negative depressed people, your positive, enthusiastic, mood-enhancing personality will be passed on to those people and you will just have to tell them all about this AMAZING Super Herb that you just tried out.
Certified Organic Maca “Explode” Extract Powder
150g $25
1kg $99
Safety Warning: Maca has been eaten by humans and livestock for centuries and is regarded as being as safe as any other vegetable. However, it does contain glucosinolates, which can cause goitres (enlargement of the thyroid glands) when consumed in high volume in combination with a diet low in iodine. There are also cases where over use can cause an increase in blood pressure. If you suffer from high blood pressure consult your physician before taking Maca. If you are pregnant or lactating you should avoid taking Maca.
Posted in Benefits of Maca	| Tagged energy booster, hormones, Maca, menopause, mood swings, sex simulant, weight loss, women's health	| Leave a comment |
Annual Eating Psychology Online Conference
Posted on June 9, 2014 by ihbPT
2nd Annual Eating Psychology Online Conference
It’s the 2nd Annual Eating Psychology Online Conference presented by Marc David and The Institute for the Psychology of Eating and it goes live July 21st – 26th 2014.
This highly unique event will showcase the voices of 45+ top professionals and thought-leaders in eating psychology, nutrition, health and personal transformation.
Each day, Monday through Friday, one interview will be released every hour on the hour. Each interview is available to watch or listen to for FREE for 24 hours from the time it’s released. The full conference schedule will be emailed to all registered participants before the conference begins. Click Here to Register for this Free Event
Marc David is the Founder of both the Institute for the Psychology of Eating and the Institute for Conscious Sexuality and Relationship, a leading visionary, teacher and consultant in Nutritional Psychology.
he Institute for the Psychology of Eating is the world’s first and only teaching organization dedicated to a forward thinking, positive, holistic approach to nutritional psychology.
Unique and revolutionary in its approach, the Institute teaches students and professionals how to effectively work with the most common eating challenges of our times – weight, body image, overeating, binge eating, digestion, fatigue, immunity, mood and much more.
Graduates are certified as Eating Psychology Coaches, and come away empowered around their own relationship with food and body, skilled in facilitating others, and confident to bring this knowledge out into the world. Click Here to Register for this Free Event
Posted in Psychology of Eating	| Tagged binge eating, body detox, eating disorder, eating disorders, nutrition, psychology and food, psychology of eating, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
A Simple 7-Minute Workout System that Really Works!
Posted on June 7, 2014 by ihbPT
A Simple 7-Minute Workout System that Really Works!
A healthy lifestyle includes exercise but it does NOT have to be a gruelling 1-hour session. Do you really think that “core” exercises and spin classes can change your body faster than resistance training adopted by world class athletes around the world?
Have you ever watched people in the gym sweating away in an aerobics class or pumping weights for hours on end… do their body shapes REALLY change… even after months of working out? Statistics reveal that only ½ of 1% of gym-goers and exercisers make any significant body transformation over a YEAR.
What about those who participate in age-increasing forms of exercise like running, cycling or boot camps. Watch them… do their bodies really change that much? Not from what I have observed… but I do know one thing… the acid build-up in their bodies from these types of exercise with rapidly age them.
We have been misled or just plain lied to. Look at all the second-hand gym equipment bought from magazine or late night infomercial hype lying around in peoples’ garages. Many people believe in the saying “no pain… no gain” but it is just not true… you do not have to work out longer and harder.
So what is missing?
Targeted muscle resistance training and simple diet changes are the keys to getting the sculpted body you have always wanted… it’s that simple. Forget the hype, you only have to work out 7-minutes a day but that exercise needs to be targeted to different muscle groups.
The real key here though is providing enough recovery time… 5-10 days before working on that group of muscles again. And don’t be fooled into thinking that working on your calf muscles doesn’t help your abs or hips… it does!
The 7-minute workout was developed by a former world class body builder and world martial arts champion, who has also trained three additional world champions, so this system really does work regardless of your age or present fitness level.
Here is an invite to their private Facebook group page where you can see people from all walks of life sharing their body sculpting results: http://www.fbgroupinvite.com/30_day_challenge/?id=Synergy
There is no obligation just an opportunity for you to see real life results from people of all ages and walks of life getting stunning results. Want to lose weight? Then join the 30-day challenge… lose 20 pounds (9kg) in 30-days doing just 7-minutes per day! http://www.fbgroupinvite.com/30_day_challenge/?id=Synergy
Posted in 7-Minute Work Out System	| Tagged 7-minute workout, body sculpting, burn fat, lose weight, simple exercises, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
How to Make Fat Burning Chocolate Brownies
Posted on June 4, 2014 by ihbPT
How to Make Fat Burning Chocolate Brownies
We all know too much sugary deserts will help you plie on the pounds and quickly erode your health but how do we satisfy our sugar addiction without destroying our health?
Well what you might not be aware of it but there is a way you can make healthy delicious chocolate brownies that will actually help you burn fat rather than lump it on. Not only that, but you can turn any delectable desert into a healthy fat-burning delight with a few simple steps.
We are not talking about those horrible tasting healthy deserts that do nothing to satisfy your sugar craving but gloriously decadent deserts to die for that are truly healthy. But what if you could…
Quench your cravings with rich delicious chocolate brownies
Relax and enjoy a mouth-watering piece of New York cheesecake topped with mango sauce
Enjoy a slice of warm cinnamon apple pie on a cool winters evening
Make guilt-free bliss balls filled with energy boosting ingredients
And what if you could eat all these delights minus any unnatural or refined ingredients, anything that might spike your blood sugar, and without having to worry about how it affects your health or waistline? Well the wait is over…
Kelley Herring, Founder & CEO of Healing Gourmet, the world’s leading provider of organic, sustainable recipes and meal plans for health and weight loss has produced a recipe book to die for. Guilt-Free Desserts™: Your Guide to Better Baking which contains delicious decadent recipes with mouth-watering taste and are actually good for you.
Click Here! to read more about this amazing recipe book.
Posted in Guilt Free Deserts	| Tagged burn fat, fat burning chocolate brownies, fat burning deserts, fat free deserts, guilt free deserts, healthy deserts, weight, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Recent Posts
Supplements to Help with Stress & Anxiety
Insomnia and Other Sleep Disorders
How to Slow the Aging Process…
The Dark Side of Your Emotional Needs – Mind and Body
When to Stop Being a Patient and Escape the Victim Cage!
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2019
June 2018
March 2018
February 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
July 2017
June 2017
January 2017
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
November 2015
October 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
November 2013
July 2013
Categories
Categories Select Category 7-Minute Work Out System Addiction Help Anxiety and Stress Benefits of Maca Brain Health Brainwashing Business Mindset Colds & Flu Virus Protectors Dangers of Sugar Eating Disorders Entire Body Detox Food Myths Guilt Free Deserts Gut Health How to Attract Money Hypnotherapy Immune System Booster Meditation & Hypnosis Mind Food Nutrition Pain Management Power Protein Powders Psychology of Eating Relationships Self-Confidence on Steroids Stress Relief Water Purification Weight Loss Secrets
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Design by Steve Deane.