Chiropractor Cranston RIChiropractic Care for Common Types of Headaches <!-Facebook Like Box-->
Home
About
Conditions
Headaches
Hip Pain
Lower Back Pain
Neck Pain
Sciatica
Chiropractic Charts & Diagrams
Chiropractic Services
Impulse-IQ Technique
Laser Therapy
New Patients
Articles
Contact
Chiropractic care, which includes a combination of spinal adjustments, muscular tension release and posture correction exercises are often used for headache management and prevention. In our office we also use nutritional therapy as an adjunct to headache management. Poor posture, constantly looking down at your cell phone, texting, sitting inappropriately and working at a computer all day are all main contributing factors to headaches and back pain. Regular chiropractic adjustments can effectively alleviate your tension, migraine, or cluster headaches.
To help you define symptoms and determine the type of headaches that you may be experiencing, as well as conditions that may be causing your symptoms, we have included some additional information below.
Most common types of headaches we treat with chiropractic therapies.
Tension Headache
Cluster Headache
Sinus Headache
Migraine Headache
Cervicogenic Headache
Tension Headache
The most common type of headache that people suffer from
A general pain or pressure felt around the head
The pain often described as a tight band around the head
Usually caused by muscle tension, stress, poor posture, eye strain
Can be helped by massage therapy, chiropractic and/or acupuncture
Prevention is the key with lifestyle changes that can help modulate stress and preventative body work done on the muscles and alignment of the neck.
Cluster Headache
Pain is usually sharp, sudden and located on one side of the head usually around the eye
Some describe the pain as “drilling” in nature
The headaches are usually cyclic or recurring in patterns or “clusters”
The pain usually lasts from 15 minutes to 3 hours and can occur up to 8X per day
Watery eyes, runny nose and sinus symptoms are commonly associated with it
Uncertain of the trigger but may be neuro-immune related
A clean diet, proper hydration and general exercise may help
Prevention is the best choice here and can be found in the form of chiropractic, nutrition and other forms of body work. As always seeking the root of the cause or finding any causal relationships to head pain is worth the investigation.
Sinus Headache
Usually associated with inflammation and/or infection
Pain is usually over the frontal and maxillary sinus regions “mask of the face”
Treatment is getting to the root cause of the issue which is usually a chronic underlying infection
Management is the key with this type of headache. If you are a chronic sinus headache sufferer, addressing this proactively is your best solution. This is where chiropractic and nutrition can really produce excellent outcomes. It’s too late once you have the infection and/or headache symptoms. The best treatment is not more antibiotics and/or prednisone and pain medication but smarter solutions to this problem.
Migrane Headache
Very common
Can be genetic or runs in families
Usually seen more in women
Head pain is usually on one side of the head, usually located around and behind the eye, temporal region of the head and under the base of the skull.
Head pain lasting between 4-72 hours
Pain is described as throbbing, severe and debilitating
Usually interferes with work and/or activities of daily living and in some cases laying down makes the pain worse
May be associated with nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light and/or sound as well as visual disturbances
Intensity and frequency can change throughout various phases of life, i.e. when the body goes through hormonal changes (menopause, andropause, pregnancy or aging)
Can be associated with various triggers including weather changes and foods
Best prevented by chiropractic adjustments to the upper cervical region and pointed nutrition strategies
Cervicogenic Headache
Head pain referred from the neck
Moderate-severe non-throbbing pain
Usually one sided and seems to radiate from the neck up into the head
May be associated with tenderness along the neck and/or limited range of motion
Difficult to distinguish between tension and migraine headache
Usually associated with aberrant cervical vertebrae and soft tissue structures of the neck (muscles and ligaments)
This is the most common headache that chiropractors see and it responds excellent to chiropractic adjustments
Some Causes of Headaches
Dehydration
Spinal vertebrae restrictions
Muscular tension
Low blood sugar (skipping meals)
Insomnia
Food sensitivities or allergies
Sedentary lifestyle
Sex
Stress
Obesity
Caffeine
MSG
Alcohol: red wine & beer
Aged, fermented and/or cured foods: cheese, sauerkraut, dried fruit, deli meat
Dairy products
Weather changes
Underlying medical conditions
Best Headache Proactive Treatments
Regular chiropractic adjustments
Massage therapy
Water
Exercise
Clean eating
Stress management
If you feel a headache start to come on drink some water immediately as you may be dehydrated and take a nice warm shower, this usually helps.
If you’re well into a headache a nice remedy is to soak your feet in very warm water and place a cold pack on the back of your neck. Try to relax/meditate and breathe deeply for about 10-15 minutes while doing this.
Magnesium works very nicely as a general preventative
Dr. Picard can help you!
Learn about Dr. Picard’s Chiropractic services
See more
Dr. Richard Picard
342 Atwood Avenue Cranston, RI 02920
401.942.6967
Fax: 401.944.0080
Follow Dr. Picard!
Dr Richard Picard
Website Designed By: Artisan Creative