Head cold: Symptoms and home remedies
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Everything you need to know about head cold
Last reviewed	 Sat 30 September 2017	 Last reviewed	Sat 30 Sep 2017
By Jayne Leonard
Reviewed by Graham Rogers, MD
Table of contents
What is a head cold?
Causes
Risk factors
Symptoms
Complications
Home remedies
Prevention
When to see a doctor
Outlook
A head cold or common cold is a viral infection of the nose and throat. It is usually a mild illness, but its symptoms can have a significant impact on everyday activities.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the average adult experiences two to three colds every year, and children may experience more.
This article looks at the symptoms of a head cold as well as a range of home remedies available to help manage its symptoms.
What is a head cold?
A head cold may resemble other similar conditions but differs due to the location of the symptoms.
Head colds can closely resemble other conditions, including chest colds and sinus infections. However, there are some significant differences.
A head cold occurs when a viral infection causes symptoms primarily in the head, such as a stuffy nose or a headache. It differs from a chest cold because of the location of the symptoms. Chest colds cause symptoms including chest congestion and coughing.
Sinus infections share many of the same symptoms as head colds, but their causes are usually different. Sinus infections are mostly caused by bacterial infections, although sometimes a sinus infection can be caused by a virus.
Causes
Several types of viruses can cause a head cold, including:
rhinoviruses
human metapneumovirus (HMPV)
human parainfluenza virus (HPIV)
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
Head colds are transmitted when an infected person sneezes or coughs, projecting droplets infected with the virus into the air or onto people around them.
It is possible to catch a head cold by coming into contact with surfaces or things that someone with the virus previously touched. The virus can enter the body through a person's eyes, mouth, or nose.
Risk factors
Although anyone can get a head cold, and most people will experience many colds in their lifetime, some factors increase the risk of getting sick. These include:
having a weakened immune system
being under the age of 6
smoking
the season, as colds are more common in fall and winter
exposure to other people with head colds, particularly schoolchildren
Eight home remedies for treating a cold
While there is currently no cure for the common cold, there are several home remedies that may reduce symptoms.
Read now
Symptoms
Symptoms of a head cold begin to appear within 3 days of exposure to rhinovirus or another cold-causing virus. These signs and symptoms vary between individuals and include:
Symptoms of a head cold may include a runny nose, sneezing, and a sore throat.
malaise, or a general feeling of being unwell
sore throat
cough
runny nose
stuffy nose
sneezing
congestion
body aches
headache
low-grade fever
fatigue
Most people recover from a head cold in 7-10 days, but symptoms may last longer in some cases.
Complications
Most people will recover from a head cold without experiencing any complications. When complications do arise, they include:
Asthma attack: In those with asthma, a cold may trigger an asthma attack.
Acute sinusitis: A head cold that does not resolve can eventually contribute to inflammation and infection of the sinuses, a condition known as sinusitis.
Ear infection (otitis media): If the virus gets into the area behind the eardrum, it can lead to earaches and a green or yellow discharge from the nose.
Other infections: Some people, especially children and individuals with weakened immune systems, can develop secondary infections following a head cold. Typical secondary infections associated with a head cold include strep throat, pneumonia, and croup, which a doctor must treat.
Home remedies
As a head cold is caused by a viral infection, antibiotics are not an effective treatment. Instead, treatment aims to manage the symptoms and reduce discomfort.
Some common home remedies for a head cold include:
Rest: Resting helps the body heal. Staying home from work or school also reduces the risk of transmitting the virus to others.
Hydration: Staying hydrated helps loosen congestion in the nose and sinuses while soothing the throat. Water and diluted juice are good options to stay hydrated. Warm liquids, such as teas, broths, and soups, may be especially beneficial. A person should avoid caffeine and alcohol until fully recovered.
Saltwater gargle: To soothe a sore throat, a person can mix a 1/2 teaspoon of salt with 8 ounces of warm water and use as a gargle.
Pain relievers: A headache, sore throat, and fever may be relieved with over-the-counter medications. Some of these are also available for purchase online, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Always follow the instructions on the packet, especially if giving medications to children.
Vaporizers or humidifiers: These devices help add moisture to the air, which may ease coughing and congestion. Using a vaporizer or humidifier at night might encourage a good night's sleep. Vaporizers and humidifiers should be cleaned daily to discourage the growth of microbes and mold. A range of humidifiers available for purchase online.
Nasal sprays: Saline nasal sprays can loosen mucus in the nose and are suitable for use by both children and adults. Adults may use decongestant nasal sprays for 3 to 5 days. However, people should avoid prolonged use of decongestant sprays. A range of nasal sprays are available for purchase online.
Supplements: Many people take supplements to prevent or treat a head cold. The most popular supplements used include vitamin C, Echinacea, and zinc. However, there is limited evidence on whether taking supplements reduces symptoms.
Prevention
Sneezing and coughing into tissues may help to prevent the spread of germs.
It is not possible to vaccinate against a head cold, but the following steps may help reduce the risk of getting a cold virus:
Avoid contact with infected people. Maintain a distance with anyone who has a head cold to reduce the risk of catching the virus.
Wash hands regularly. Thoroughly cleaning the hands with soap and hot water reduces transmission of the virus. An alcohol-based hand sanitizer is also effective.
Avoid sharing items. To prevent exposure to cold germs, try not to share cups or utensils with others.
Use disinfectant when family members are sick. Kitchen countertops and bathroom fittings should be cleaned with disinfectant when a family member is sick. Also, it is important to clean children's toys regularly.
Sneeze or cough into tissues. Using tissues prevents germs spreading through the air. Throw away used tissues immediately and always wash hands after sneezing and coughing.
Maintain a healthy lifestyle. Eating a balanced diet, engaging in regular physical activity, reducing stress, and getting an adequate amount of sleep can help the immune system fight off an illness.
Teach children good hygiene practices. Ask children to sneeze or cough into a tissue, or the bend of their elbow, so they cover their mouths without using their hands. Encourage children to wash their hands thoroughly on a regular basis.
When to see a doctor
Adults should consult their doctor if they experience any of the following symptoms:
shortness of breath
wheezing
a severe headache, sore throat, cough, or sinus pain
fever that persists beyond 5 days
Children should receive urgent medical treatment if they have:
wheezing
a severe headache, sore throat, cough, or sinus pain
symptoms that do not improve or get worse
earache
drowsiness
loss of appetite
fever of 100.4°F in infants under 12 weeks
fever for more than 2 days in children of any age
Outlook
Although there is no cure for a head cold, there are several home remedies that can help manage symptoms and reduce discomfort. To avoid getting a cold, a person can take steps to limit exposure to cold-causing viruses.
People with a head cold can expect to recover within 7-10 days. Individuals who experience severe or persistent head cold symptoms should see their doctor.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
How do I treat a cold? A viral infection is responsible for the common cold. While the effects can be unpleasant, people tend to recover within around 1 week. Medicines such as decongestants can help to manage symptoms, as can a range of home remedies, such as steam inhalation. Here, discover the best ways to reduce symptoms and find relief. Read now
Everything you need to know about infections Infection refers to an invasion of the body by harmfulmicroorganisms or parasites. Infections range from mild swelling to fatal conditions. Read now
Flu and colds: Why do we cough? Whether dry or chesty, coughing fits are customary when flu or the common cold is involved. But what causes us to cough? We investigate. Read now
Does an onion in the sock work for a cold? One folk remedy for cold and flu is to put an onion against the sole of the foot, inside a sock. Find out why people do this, and whether there is any evidence that it works. You can also find out more about the other benefits of onions, and some additional home remedies for colds and flu. Read now
All about the common cold Find out here all about the common cold, a viral disease that infects the upper respiratory tract and is highly infectious. Here, we explain the symptoms, causes, treatments, and why we catch colds over and over again. Also, read about what other complications can develop when someone catches a cold. Read now
email email
print
share share
Flu / Cold / SARS
Public Health Respiratory
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Sat 30 September 2017.
Visit our Flu / Cold / SARS category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Flu / Cold / SARS.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Common colds: Protect yourself and others. (2017, February 6). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/features/rhinoviruses/index.html
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Leonard, Jayne. "Everything you need to know about head cold." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 30 Sep. 2017. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319573.php>
APA
Leonard, J. (2017, September 30). "Everything you need to know about head cold." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319573.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Popular in: Flu / Cold / SARS
What can I do to make my cough go away?
12 remedios naturales para acabar con las tos
What should you eat when you are sick?
How do I know if I have a cold or sinusitis?
Top 7 essential oils for sinus congestion
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319573.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);