Heart attack: Fermented dairy products may protect against heart attack | Express.co.uk
Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express.
20°C
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Login
Register
Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Discounts Shop Paper
HOME
News
Showbiz & TV
Sport
Comment
Finance
Travel
Entertainment
Life & Style
Life
Style
Health
Cars
Garden
Property
Food
Tech
Diets
Win
Home
Life & Style
Health
Heart attack: Eating fermented dairy products may prevent deadly condition happening
HEART ATTACK: Eating fermented dairy products may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease and heart attacks, according to a recent study.
By Karolina Kaminska Karolina Kaminska
PUBLISHED: 14:39, Tue, Oct 30, 2018 | UPDATED: 14:57, Tue, Oct 30, 2018
0
Coronary heart disease is the leading cause of heart attacks, according to the NHS.
The study, from the University of Eastern Finland, examined around 2,000 men over the course of 20 years.
The participants’ dietary habits were assessed at the beginning of the study in 1984 to 1989, and were followed up for an average of 20 years.
During the follow-up, 472 men experienced an incident coronary heart disease event.
Related articles
Heart attack WARNING: Symptoms can be triggered by winter weather
Glenn Hoddle: Former England manager had heart attack - symptoms
The new study provides further evidence on the health benefits that fermented dairy products may have over non-fermented ones
University of Eastern Finland
During the study, it was revealed men who eat “plenty” of fermented dairy products have a smaller risk of indecent coronary heart disease than men who eat less of the products.
On the other hand, a very high consumption of non-fermented dairy products was associated with an increased risk of incident coronary heart disease.
Earlier studies had shown fermented dairy products to have positive effects on blood lipid profiles and on the risk of heart disease than other dairy products.
Examples of fermented dairy products include cheese, yoghurt, quark, kefir and sour milk.
The study participants were divided into groups on the basis of how much they ate different dairy products.
The study in Finland revealed fermented dairy products can reduce the risk of heart disease (Image: Getty Images)
The researchers compared the groups with the highest and lowest consumption, while also taking various lifestyle and nutrition factors into consideration.
According to the study, on the basis of consumption of fermented dairy products with less then 3.5 per cent fat, the risk of incident coronary heart disease was 26 per cent lower in the highest consumption group compared to the lowest consumption group.
Sour milk was the most commonly used low-fat fermented dairy product.
The consumption of high-fat fermented dairy products, such as cheese, was not associated with the risk of incident coronary heart disease.
However, the researchers found a very high consumption on non-fermented dairy products was associated with an increased risk of incident coronary heart disease.
Related articles
Heart attack: Unsaturated fat can help prevent a heart attack
Heart attack: How many tomatoes should you eat to lower risk?
Yoghurt is a fermented dairy product (Image: Getty Images)
Cheese is also a fermented dairy product (Image: Getty Images)
Early warning signs of a heart attack
Mon, August 29, 2016
Although chest pain is often severe, sometimes people only suffer minor pain, similar to indigestion. Here are some of the early warning signs and symptoms of a heart attack.
Play slideshow
1 of 9
{% } %}
Milk was the most commonly used product in this category, and a very high consumption was defined as an average daily milk intake of 0.9 litres.
Lower consumption levels were not associated with the risk.
“The new study provides further evidence on the health benefits that fermented dairy products may have over non-fermented ones,” said the University of Eastern Finland.
“All the mechanisms are not understood yet, but they may be linked to compounds forming during the fermentation process.”
According to the NHS, the risk of coronary heart disease is increased in people who eat a high-fat diet, are overweight, and have high cholesterol.
This is because bad cholesterol and fatty deposits can block the arteries, obstructing blood flow to the heart.
Having high blood pressure or a family history of coronary heart disease can also increase the risk.
Related articles
Heart attack - the 4p a day breakfast that could prevent attacks
Heart attack symptoms: Signs you must look out for
Heart attack risk lowered by eating nuts
Heart attack Heart Disease
Most read in Health
1
High blood pressure: Eating this fermented food could help lower your reading
2
Type 2 diabetes: The citrus fruit proven to help lower blood sugar
3
Vitamin B12 deficiency symptoms: Feeling like this could be a sign you lack B12
4
Best supplements for eczema: The plant-based oil that could repair sore and cracked skin
5
Dementia: The main early warning sign of Alzheimer’s disease everyone must know
Latest videos
Barcelona news LIVE: Man Utd player-plus-cash bid plot, Liverpool create Lionel Messi plan
State pension age change means women will miss out on a FURTHER £9,000 - will you?
Kim Jong-Un set to meet Putin amid Pompeo row and new nuclear tests
The INCREDIBLE Mauricio Pochettino dressing room footage as boss celebrates Man City win
Star Trek Jean-Luc Picard series cast: Who is in the cast?
Dementia: The main early warning sign of Alzheimer’s disease everyone must know
Vitamin B12 deficiency symptoms: Feeling like this could be a sign you lack B12
How to live longer: These colourful veg may protect against heart disease and cancer
Cancer: Scientists offer cancer cure hope by designing ‘decoy’ molecules to kill tumours
Stomach bloating warning: A bloated tummy after an Easter egg binge could be serious
Best supplements for eczema: The plant-based oil that could repair sore and cracked skin
Type 2 diabetes: The citrus fruit proven to help lower blood sugar
High blood pressure: Eating this fermented food could help lower your reading
Pollen count warning: Six steps for hay fever sufferers to take as UK forecast hot weather
Type 2 diabetes: Four foods proven to lower blood sugar and risk of condition developing
Heart attack symptoms: Seven signs you should call an ambulance
Dementia: The early and subtle warning sign of vascular dementia you mustn’t ignore
Cherylee Houston health: Symptoms linked to Coronation Street star’s rare condition
Eczema: Applying this sweet food spread to the skin may reduce itchy eczema symptoms
Best supplements for arthritis: The natural compound that could relieve inflamed joints
Stomach bloating: Do you use this ingredient when cooking? It could be why you are bloated
SEARCH
CONNECT WITH US
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Check us on Google+
Subscribe to our rss feed
TODAY'S PAPER
Thursday, 18th April 2019
See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
News
UK
World
Weird
Royal
Politics
Science
Weather
Scotland
Nature
Sunday
Latest News
Brexit
European Union
Theresa May
Angela Merkel
Donald Trump
The Queen
Kate Middleton
Meghan Markle
Diesel
Cancer
Diabetes
Dementia
YouTube
Showbiz & TV
Celebrity News
TV & Radio
Sport
Football
Transfer news
Premier League
Manchester United
Liverpool
Arsenal
Chelsea
Tottenham Hotspur
Manchester City
West Ham
Everton
Celtic
Rangers
Tennis
F1
Rugby
Boxing
WWE
UFC
Golf
NFL
Cricket
Racing
Pictures
Celebrity Galleries
Royal Galleries
Sport Galleries
Comment
Express Comment
Columnists
Finance
City & Business
Personal Finance
The Crusader
Travel
Cruise
Activity Holidays
Beach Holidays
Short & City breaks
Travel News
Entertainment
Gaming
Theatre
Films
Books
Music
Life & Style
Life
Style
Health
Cars
Garden
Property
Food
Tech
Diets
Win
EXPRESS.CO.UK
Apps
Puzzles
Horoscopes
Discounts
Shop
Paper
Sitemap
Site Archive
About Us
Journalists
How to Complain
Report a Tech Issue
Advertising
Affiliate advertising
Cookies Settings
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms & Conditions
Developed by Netro42
Syndication and Licensing
Clarifications and Corrections
IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2019 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.
{%#o.videoContent%}
{% if (o.inSection) { %} {%=o.sectionTitle%} {% } %} Close×
{%=o.headline%}