18 best ways to deal with anemia naturally at home
Toggle navigation
Crypto Reviews
Health
Nutrition
Food & Recipes
Sexual Health
Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Home Remedies
Home Remedies Index
How To
Relationships
Love & Sex
Men’s Dating
Women’s Dating
Marriage & Relationships
Parenting & Families
LifeStyle
Crypto Reviews
Health
Nutrition
Food & Recipes
Sexual Health
Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Home Remedies
Home Remedies Index
How To
Relationships
Love & Sex
Men’s Dating
Women’s Dating
Marriage & Relationships
Parenting & Families
LifeStyle
Home
How To
0 Shares
0 0
18 Ways on how to treat anemia naturally at home
In America, approximately 3 millions of people suffer from anemia, a problem that often occurs when the red blood cells count of the body is less than normal. In fact, red blood cells have hemoglobin, an iron-based protein which will help blood cells carry oxygen. Whenever you are anemic, the blood cannot supply the proper oxygen to your tissues and organs.
According to the WHO (World Health Organization), men who have less than thirteen grams of hemoglobin a deciliter are anemic. For females, the criteria are less than twelve grams of hemoglobin a deciliter.
Anything that reduces the normal lifespan of your red blood cells can cause anemia, including an increase in the excessive blood loss or damage of red blood cells, a decrease in the red blood cells production. There are also different types of anemia that depend on their cause.
People, especially women with some chronic diseases are at high risk for anemia. Some conditions that can cause this condition are heavy blood loss due to menstruation, pregnancy, bleeding disorders, intestinal disorders, cancer, ulcers, other chronic diseases, or the deficiency of vitamin B12, folic acid, iron. Certain types of anemia may also be inherited.
Symptoms will vary depending on the different causes and can change from mild to severe. People with anemia often experience common symptoms such as fatigue, pale skin, shortness of breath, an irregular or fast heartbeat, chest pain, dizziness, headaches, cold feet and hands, cognitive problems, lack of energy, low or high blood pressure, and hair loss.
In this writing, VKool.com will show to you top 29 ways on how to treat anemia naturally and fast without any side effect. This article listed the best methods to treat this problem from reliable sources. However, it is not intended to give medical advice and it is solely for the informational purpose. Continue reading this article to understand more!
Top 29 Ways On How To Treat Anemia Naturally At Home
1. Blackstrap Molasses, Apple Cider Vinegar, And Milk
Learning how to treat anemia naturally at home, blackstrap molasses is one of the best choices for you. It is high in iron, folate, and many B vitamins that will help to raise the red blood cells production efficiently in your blood. Luckily, all the people even people with diabetic can also have these molasses thanks to the low glycemic index in it.
Way 1: Blackstrap molasses, apple cider vinegar, and water
Ingredients:
Apple cider vinegar – 2 teaspoons
Blackstrap molasses – 2 teaspoons
Water – 1 cup
Directions:
At first, you add apple cider vinegar and blackstrap molasses in a small bowl.
Next, you add water into this bowl and mix them well.
Finally, you drink this mixture.
You may have this drink daily for one time per day.
Learn more: Health and beauty advantages of apple cider vinegar consumption
Way 2: Blackstrap molasses and hot milk
Ingredients:
Hot milk – 1 cup
Blackstrap molasses – 1 tablespoon
Directions:
Firstly, you add blackstrap molasses into the hot milk.
Then, you stir them well and drink this milk.
You have to drink it for about one or two times per day.
Remember that this milk is also highly helpful for the nursing and pregnant women.
See more: Real facts and myths of raw milk
2. Spinach, Broccoli, Watercress, Celery, And Honey
Being a green leafy vegetable, spinach is rich in vitamins B9, E, C, and A, fiber, calcium, beta-carotene, and iron. You just need ½ cup of the spinach to treat anemia. From ½ cup of this boiled spinach, you may get 3.2 milligrams of iron. Therefore, spinach is another way on how to treat anemia naturally at home. However, make sure that you do not boil these leaves for more than two to three minutes because this will reduce the oxalic acid levels within these leaves.
Way 1: Spinach, broccoli, watercress, celery, and kale
Ingredients:
Spinach
Broccoli
Watercress
Celery
Kale
Directions:
Simply, you just take spinach leaves and add them in your daily dish of green vegetable salads including broccoli, watercress, kale, celery, etc.
Or, if you may take this spinach in the salad, you increase its quantity.
You should have this green salad daily to raise the red blood cells count in your blood and this will give you a proper functioning of all body parts.
Read more: Health and nutritional advantage of broccoli
Way 2: Spinach and water
Ingredients:
Water – 1 cup
Spinach – ½ cup
Seasoning
Directions:
At first, you place the spinach in a bowl.
Next, you add water into it and mix them well to make a soup.
Then, you place this in a stove and boil this soup for a few minutes.
After that, you add your favorite seasoning into your spinach soup.
Finally, you have this soup immediately.
You may consume this soup for about two times per day on the daily basis.
Way 3: Spinach leaves juice and honey
Ingredients:
Honey – 1 tablespoon
Spinach leaves juice – 1 cup
Directions:
Firstly, you add honey into the cup of spinach juice.
Then, you stir them well until the honey is completely dissolved in spinach juice.
Finally, you drink this spinach juice.
You may consume this juice for one time per day on the daily basis for about 40 days.
3. Parsley, Sandwiches, Hot Water, And Honey
Parsley is a common culinary herb that is widely used in the world. This parsley is very high in folic acid and iron. 100 grams of parsley contain 5.5 milligrams of iron that generally comes from a half cup of fresh parsley or one tablespoon of this dried parsley herb. In addition, parsley is also rich in vitamin C that can help your body absorb the iron very effectively and quickly. Here are two ways on how to treat anemia using parsley that you should try!
Way 1: Parsley and sandwiches or salads
Ingredients:
Fresh parsley sprigs – a few
Salads or sandwiches
Directions:
At first, you cut a few fresh parsley sprigs finely.
Then, you add them into the sandwich or salad.
Finally, you eat this immediately.
You may use this parsley in your sandwiches or salads whenever you consume them or in other ways you like to have this parsley.
Or, you may toss some fresh or dried parsley sprigs into your gravies, soups, sauces, or stews.
Daily include this parsley into your diet to get rid of this problem completely.
See more: Healthy low-calorie sandwiches and recipes for your plan of weight loss
Way 2: Parsley leaves, honey, and hot water
Ingredients:
Fresh or dried parsley leaves
Hot water – 1 or 2 cups
Honey – 1 teaspoon
Directions:
At first, you place fresh or dried parsley into a cup.
Then, you pour hot water over the herb and let it soak for 3 to 5 min.
After that, you strain this tea and add honey into it.
Finally, you stir them well and drink this tea.
Drinking this tea daily for 2 to 3 times per day will prevent this anemia condition and keeps you healthy.
4. Apple Juice, Beetroot, And Honey
An apple per day keeps your doctor away and the saying is proved for anemia sufferers. In fact, apples are high in iron and contain other healthy components that can aid in increasing your red blood cells. Besides, beetroot is high in folic acid, potassium, and fiber that will help to treat this anemia condition very effectively. Moreover, beetroot peel also is also the nutrient rich part and if you want to have this beetroot, you have to cook it in a microwave or roast this on your stove with its peel. When it gets cooked well, you take off this peel and eat it to cure this problem. Coming to apples, you may eat 1 to 2 apples per day. If you mix the beetroot with apple, you definitely and fast prevent this anemia condition. Hence, you should follow this way if you want to learn how to treat anemia naturally at home.
Ingredients:
Beetroot juice – 1 cup
Apple juice – 1 cup
Honey – 1 or 2 teaspoons
Directions:
At first, you add beetroot juice and apple juice in a bowl.
Next, you add honey into this bowl and mix them well.
Finally, you drink this mixture.
You may have this for two times per day.
5. Sesame Seeds, Honey, Milk, And Water
Using sesame seeds is also an excellent way on how to treat anemia at home. Black sesame seeds seem to be most preferred for this condition because of its iron source in it.
Way 1: Sesame seeds, honey, and water
Ingredients:
Honey – 1 tablespoon
Sesame seeds – 1 teaspoon
Water
Directions:
At first, you add sesame seeds into a bowl.
Next, you add a sufficient amount of water into this bowl.
Now, you allow it to dip for 2 to 3 hours.
After that, you strain the water and crush or grind these seeds to make a paste.
Then, you add honey into this paste and mix them well.
Finally, you consume this paste completely.
Regular intake of this paste for about twice per day will help to cure anemia completely.
Learn more: Health and nutritional advantages of sesame seeds for everyone
Way 2: Black sesame seeds, honey, milk, and warm water
Ingredients:
Honey – 1 or 2 teaspoons
Black sesame seeds – 1 to 1½ teaspoons
Warm water
Milk – 1 cup
Directions:
Firstly, you add black sesame seeds into a bowl.
Next, you add a sufficient amount of lukewarm water into this bowl.
Now, you let it sit for about 2 to 3 hours.
After that, you grind these seeds to make a paste.
Then, you strain this paste to eliminate its emulsion and add honey and milk to it.
Finally, you stir them well and consume this sesame flavored milk every day.
Remember to consume this milk every day until your red blood cells reach the normal level.
6. Tomatoes
The intake of more iron cannot be a complete thing to treat anemia, but here you have completely the ability to absorb this iron into your body to treat this anemia condition. For the proper absorption of iron to your blood and body, tomatoes stand first among other foods. The tomatoes are high in lycopene and vitamin C that are essential for the iron absorption and prevent anemia.
Ingredients:
1 or 2 raw tomatoes
Salad
Sandwich
Directions:
At first, you wash 2 raw tomatoes thoroughly and consume them every day.
Or, you may also include these tomatoes into the sandwiches or salads or in any way you like to have them in raw form.
Another option, you can drink one glass of fresh tomato juice every day.
Or, you may mix the tomato juice and apple juice together to alleviate the anemia symptoms.
Or, you simply include tomatoes in the daily cooking dishes.
You should use tomatoes in your diet regularly to absorb this iron from these certain foods or any other supplements in order to get rid of this anemia condition.
See more: Top health advantages of tomatoes for men
There are a lot of other natural ways on how to treat anemia fast at home presented in the next part of this writing, so keep reading it if you want to discover more.
7. Dates, Milk, And Warm Water
Dates are obtained from a palm tree that is enriched with an iron source. As per the nutritional values of dates, 100 grams of dates contain 0.90 milligrams of iron. Regular intake of the dates will assist you in increasing the hemoglobin in your blood and this will cure the anemia condition. Moreover, it is also high in minerals such as magnesium, calcium, copper, and manganese. This copper is very necessary for your blood’s red blood cells production. There, to learn how to treat anemia at home, you should follow these ways using dates.
Way 1: Dry dates and milk
Ingredients:
2 dry dates
1 cup of milk
Directions:
Firstly, you take dry dates and then soak them into the milk for overnight.
After that, you will eat these soaked dates in the next morning when you stomach is still empty.
But make sure that you do not discard the milk you may drink this after consuming the dates.
You had better do this way regularly for 3 or 4 times per week.
Way 2: Dried dates and milk
If you do not like to consume the soaked dates, you may follow this way to have the same effect as the above one.
Ingredients:
A handful of dried dates
1 cup of milk
Directions:
At first, you take the dried dates and consume them in the morning when your stomach is empty.
Then, you drink 1 cup of milk as soon as you eat all the dates completely.
You may do this way regularly to get rid of this anemia problem and remain energy throughout the day.
Way 3: Dates and warm water
This way is especially helpful for some people who have milk or lactose intolerance, which mean they cannot consume milk or any milk product.
Ingredients:
1 to 3 dates
1 cup of warm water
Directions:
Firstly, you take dates and then soak them into the warm water for two to three hours
After that, you eat these dates and drink this water after it becomes cool down completely.
You may repeat this way regularly.
8. Pomegranate, Cinnamon, Honey, And Milk
Pomegranate is a super nutritious fruit due to its health beneficial components. It has proteins, fiber, fat, sugar, and carbohydrates. Also, it has a rich source of calcium and iron that will help to increase the red blood cells production in your blood. Moreover, it is enriched with many minerals such as potassium, copper, magnesium, etc. other than vitamins. They will increase the red blood cells and hemoglobin in your blood and this will make your blood flow to all the body parts to function properly. After having pomegranate, you will feel better from the anemia symptoms such as weakness, exhaustion, dizziness, etc.
Here are three ways on how to treat anemia naturally at home using pomegranate.
Way 1: Pomegranate
Ingredient:
Pomegranate – 200 grams
Directions:
Firstly, you remove the seeds from the pomegranate.
Then, you eat this fruit when your stomach is empty in the every morning
Or, you may drink one glass of pomegranate juice every day along with your breakfast.
You should follow this way daily until you get rid of this problem.
Read more: Amazing health and beauty advantages of pomegranate juice
Way 2: Pomegranate, cinnamon powder, and honey
Ingredients:
Cinnamon powder – ¼ teaspoon
Pomegranate juice – 1 glass
Honey – 2 teaspoons
Directions:
At first, you add honey along with cinnamon powder into the glass of pomegranate juice.
Then, you stir them well and drink this juice with your breakfast.
Regularize this way daily along with your breakfast to get relief from the anemia completely.
Learn more: Health and beauty advantages of cinnamon
Way 3: Dried pomegranate seed powder and warm milk
Ingredients:
2 teaspoons of dried pomegranate seed powder
1 glass of warm milk
Directions:
Firstly, you take the dried pomegranate seed powder.
Then, you add this powder into the glass of warm milk.
Finally, you mix them well and have this milk.
Regular intake of this milk for about once or twice per day will give you a relief from anemia completely
9. Raisin, Water, And Honey
Raisins have a great source of various nutrients such as calcium, potassium, fiber, iron, protein, and sodium. This raisin of 100 grams provides you with 1.88 milligrams of iron. It is another old way on how to treat anemia at home that you should try!
Ingredients:
8 to 15 raisins
½ cup of water
1 teaspoon of honey
Directions:
Firstly, you add raisins into a bowl and add ½ cup of water into this bowl.
Then, you soak them for overnight.
After that, you will eat them along with honey in the next morning.
You may follow this simple way daily.
See more: The book of 3 week diet
10. Bottle Gourd, Beetroot, Spinach, And Water
As you know, anemia is also caused by nutritional deficiencies. The intake of certain vegetables and fruits that has a good source of folic acid and iron will raise the blood in your body. The bottle gourd is such vegetable that raises the red blood cells production in your blood. Therefore, this is also another effective way on how to treat anemia naturally that you should not skip.
Ingredients:
Bottle gourd – 1
Chopped spinach – 1 cup
Beetroot pieces – ½ cup
Water – 2 glasses
A pan
Directions:
At first, you cut a bottle gourd into fine pieces.
Then, you pour water into the pan.
Next, you place this pan on the stove with medium flame.
Now, you add these bottle gourd pieces, chopped spinach, and beetroot pieces into this pan.
Then, you stir them well and cover the pan with the lid.
After that, you let it boil for several minutes until the vegetables become softer and your soup is ready.
Then, you turn off the flame and have this soup with these vegetable pieces or you may mash these pieces and remove them by using a sieve.
Daily consume this soup for one month to treat anemia as well as strengthen your immune system.
11. Honey, Apple Cider Vinegar, And Lemon Juice
Honey is another great way on how to treat anemia naturally at home. It increases the red blood cells count and hemoglobin in your blood with its high source of iron, manganese, and copper. You can have honey directly or mix it with other ingredients.
Ingredients:
Lemon juice – 1 tablespoon
Apple cider vinegar – 1 tablespoon
Honey – 1 tablespoon
Directions:
Firstly, you take honey, apple cider vinegar, and lemon juice in a small bowl.
Next, you stir them well and then make a concoction with the mixture.
Finally, you have this concoction immediately.
You may have it for one time per day.
Learn more: Health and beauty advantages of lemon juice, oil, and peel
12. Fenugreek, Rice, And Salt
Fenugreek is very high in iron that can aid in maintaining the proper iron levels within your blood. This also helps to produce the new red blood cells in order to treat this problem completely as well as prevents its recurrence. You may use both the seeds and leaves of this fenugreek in curing the anemia problem.
Ingredients:
Rice – 1 cup
Fenugreek seeds – 3 teaspoons
Salt – a pinch
Directions:
At first, you take the cup of rice and then add fenugreek seeds into it.
Next, you add a little salt into it and cook the rice.
Finally, you eat this rice daily.
You may have it for once per day and continue repeating this way for at least 2 to 3 weeks.
Or, you may also add some chopped fenugreek leaves into the rice cooking or the preparation of soups or salads.
Regular follow-up of the same process will definitely assist you in getting rid of anemia along with many other health benefits.
13. Dried Black Currant And Water
Dried black currant contains high concentrations of vitamin C and iron, which is very effective for curing the anemia condition. Vitamin C in the currants will aid in enhancing the ability of the absorption of iron of your body and then it raises the red blood cells and hemoglobin.
Ingredients:
10 to 12 dried black currants
Water
Directions:
Firstly, you add 10 to 12 dried black currants into a small bowl.
Next, you pour a sufficient amount of water into this bowl and allow these currants to soak for overnight.
After that, you will strain the water in the next morning to take out these seeds.
Then, you consume them before your breakfast.
You may have this daily for a few weeks.
14. Ash Gourd Fruit, Ash Gourd Leaves, And Buttermilk
Ash gourd is an ancient way on how to treat anemia naturally at home that is used by Ayurveda and Chinese medicine. Moreover, this ash gourd also contains many minerals and vitamins such as iron, calcium, riboflavin, thiamine, vitamin C, niacin, and phosphorus. Besides, this gourd is also used as a sweet in order to prevent the weakness caused by anemia.
Ingredients:
Ash gourd leaves
Ash gourd fruit
Buttermilk – 1 cup
Directions:
Firstly, you take ash gourd leaves and fruit.
Then, you let it get dry for several hours or days.
Next, you grind them well to make a fine powder.
Now, you take one teaspoon of the powder and add it into the cup of buttermilk.
After that, you stir them well and have this buttermilk.
Regular intake of this buttermilk will help you to treat the anemia condition.
You may find this fruit easily at many Chinese stores or health or Ayurveda stores. Chinese often use this fruit widely in order to cure many health problems.
15. Yellow Dock Herbal Decoction
This yellow dock is used or recommended by many herbalists for curing anemia caused by iron deficiency. Although this dock root does not have the much of iron content, it can raise the absorption of mineral which comes from food sources or other supplements by your body effectively. Follow this way if you want to know how to treat anemia naturally at home.
Ingredients:
1 teaspoon of yellow dock root
1 teaspoon of peony root
1 teaspoon of stinging nettle herb
1 teaspoon of dang gui
1 teaspoon of red clover
2 to 3 tablespoons of molasses
5 to 6 drops of water
A pot with lid
Directions:
Firstly, you take the pot and pour water into it.
Then, you add all these above herbs (but not molasses) into the pot.
Next, you mix them and simmer this mixture for about 30 to 45 min.
Now, you cover this pot while simmering the decoction.
After that, you add molasses into this decoction.
Finally, you have one cup of this decoction immediately.
Make sure that you have to add a little honey and water into this decoction, if you feel it is too strong.
You mix them and have this to prevent anemia and daily intake of this decoction for three times per day will treat the anemia condition as well as prevent its recurrence.
16. Wheat Germ, Molasses, Brewer’s Yeast, And Canola Oil
Wheat germ is a part of the wheat kernel that is obtained by eliminating it from the refined and processed flour. This germ contains various nutrients such as iron, zinc, etc. that can make it as one of other best ways on how to treat anemia at home. Here are the directions of preparing this iron tonic at home with wheat germ. You should remember that this way is more helpful for the vegetarian people who cannot get the essential nutrients from any kinds of animal.
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon of wheat germ
1 tablespoon of brewer’s yeast
1 tablespoon of blackstrap molasses
1 tablespoon of canola oil
½ cup of orange juice
Directions:
At first, you take a bowl and then add wheat germ, molasses, orange juice, brewer’s yeast, and canola oil into it.
Next, you mix normally or stir them well in a blender to make a tonic.
Finally, you have this homemade tonic to treat this anemia problem.
Regularize the same process of taking the iron tonic for about 2 or 3 times per day on the daily basis until you get rid of this condition.
See more: Amazing health advantages of oranges in your body
17. Banana, Honey, And Indian Gooseberry Juice
Banana is rich in iron that will stimulate the hemoglobin production along with other enzymes which are essential for the red blood cells formations. In addition, it also contains a good source of magnesium which perfectly aids in the hemoglobin synthesis.
Here are two ways on how to treat anemia containing banana along with other ingredients.
Way 1: Banana and honey
Ingredients:
A ripe banana
Honey – 1 tablespoon
Directions:
Firstly, you take honey and a ripe banana.
Then, you peel it off this banana and eat it along with honey.
You may do this simple way for two times per day to cure anemia and provide you with other health benefits.
Read more: Natural health advantages of honey for your skin, hair, and body
Way 2: Banana and Indian gooseberry juice
Ingredients:
A ripe banana
1 tablespoon of Indian gooseberry juice
Directions:
At first, you mash a ripe banana finely.
Then, you add Indian gooseberry juice into it.
Finally, you stir them well and have this.
You may eat this for about 2 or 3 times per day on the daily basis for the best results.
Learn more: Health and beauty advantages of banana consumption
18. Beetroot, Carrots, And Sweet Potato
Seeking some natural ways on how to treat anemia caused by the iron deficiency, you should not pass beetroot. It is very rich in iron along with fiber, sulfur, vitamins, potassium, and calcium. In addition, it can also help to cleanse your body and supply more oxygen, which will raise the red blood cells count in your body.
Way 1: Beetroot, carrots, and sweet potato
Ingredients:
A medium-sized beetroot
3 carrots
½ piece of sweet potato
Directions:
At first, you take all these above ingredients and add them into a juicer.
Then, you blend them finely to get the juice.
Finally, you drink this juice immediately.
You have to consume this juice daily to get better results.
See more: Health & beauty advantages of carrot, carrot juice, and carrot oil
Way 2: Beetroot and salad
Ingredients:
Beetroot
Salad
Directions:
Simply, you take beetroot and consume beetroot as a cooked vegetable or in salad form.
You have to consume this beetroot along with its peel to get the maximum nutritional value.
You should eat this beetroot daily to get relief from this condition.
Learn more: Healthy and easy salad ideas for weight loss
Additional Tips:
You should eat foods high vitamins C, B12, and iron.
You had better take a cold bath for two times per day to improve your blood circulation.
You cook your food into the iron pots to make iron content increase.
You should expose your body to the early morning sunlight for about 10 minutes daily.
Including lentils as well as whole grain cereals into your diet is very good for you.
You should include more fresh vegetables and fruits in your daily diet.
You do not have tea, cocoa, or coffee with your meals.
You had better take a warm water bath that is mixed with Epsom salt for 3 to 4 times per week.
Finally, you should exercise regularly and include the strength training to raise your muscle mass as well as fight the fatigue.
Related articles:
The first signs of the deficiency of iron in women and men
Natural and simple treatments for anemia
If you want to know more about natural ways for many other diseases and conditions related to your skin and health, go to our main How to page. After reading the article of top 29 ways on how to treat anemia, hope that you can find out the best solutions to treat anemia naturally at home. Nevertheless, the article is only for the informational purpose, thus, you should meet your doctor to get advice before applying any natural way. If you have any question, or you know other ways on how to treat anemia, please leave them below.
Want More Content Like This In Your Inbox?
ALSO ON VKOOL
Eye Floaters No More Review – Can The Book Work?
Get Rid Of Herpes Review – Can Sarah’s Guide Be Useful?
H Miracle System Review – Does Holly Hayden’s Book Work?
Heartburn No More Review – Will Jeff’s Guide Be Useful?
Total Hair Regrowth Review – Will John’s Guide Work?
Start Plan One Program Review – Will Ancore Digital’s Guide Work?
Eye Floaters No More Review – Can The Book Work?
Get Rid Of Herpes Review – Can Sarah’s Guide Be Useful?
H Miracle System Review – Does Holly Hayden’s Book Work?
Heartburn No More Review – Will Jeff’s Guide Be Useful?
Total Hair Regrowth Review – Will John’s Guide Work?
Start Plan One Program Review – Will Ancore Digital’s Guide Work?
Quantum Confidence With Tmm Review – Is It Reliable?
Muscle imbalances revealed review – is Rick’s system reliable?
TagsConditions & DiseasesHealthy LivingNatural Remedies
Last Updated: April 23, 2017 by Brown
Join The Discussion
VKool encourages comments, but please remember: Play nice, keep it clean, stay on-topic, and avoid promotional content. For additional, read our full comment policy. To report spelling errors, misinformation, or corrections in general, please contact us
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
 Comments JOIN THE CONVERSATION
TRENDING POSTS
20 Tips On How To Induce A Miscarriage Naturally At Home
27 Effective Tips On How To Tighten Vagina Naturally At Home
45 Tips How To Get Rid Of Vaginal Odor Fast And Naturally
54 Tips How To Grow Thick Hair Fast In One Month
28 Natural Ways On How To Remove Tattoos At Home Fast
47 Tips on How to Grow Taller Faster Naturally
CRYPTO REVIEWS →
ICO REVIEWS →
What's News
30 Tips On How To Treat Nasal Polyps Naturally At Home
Top 20 Tips On How To Get Rid Of Mustache Naturally
19 Tips How To Get Rid Of Edema In Legs Fast And Naturally
9 Tips On How To Stop Hand Tremors Naturally
28 Tips On How To Get Rid Of Tonsil Stones Without Gagging
16 Natural Ways On How To Get Rid Of White Tongue Fast
20 Tips How To Prevent Vitiligo From Spreading Naturally
15 Natural Tips On How To Maintain Dreadlocks By Yourself
You May Also Like
How To Get Rid Of Acne Scars Fast – Three Natural Acne Treatments
How To Increase Height With The Grow Taller Guide?
How To Get Rid Of Herpes With Stop Herpes Now
How To Shake Your Booty In 30 Days Review – Is It Sound?
How To Stop Hair Fall – Discover The Tips Of Reversing Hair Loss Condition With Hair Loss Black Book
How To Cure Candida Review – Is Ryan Shea’s Book Useful?
How To Get Rid Of Herpes With Herpes Wise?
How To Naturally Reduce And Help High Blood Pressure Review
How To Naturally Regrow Lost Hair In 15 Minutes A Day Pdf Review
How To Get Rid Of Ugly Stretch Marks Review
Popular on social
0
SHARES
How To Get Healthy Nails Naturally Fast At Home – 20 Proven Ways
0
SHARES
How To Lose Thigh Fat For Women & Men Fast & Easy
0
SHARES
How to control your appetite naturally to lose weight: 23 tricks
0
SHARES
How To Remove Oil From Face Naturally At Home
0
SHARES
How To Get Fit Fast At Home: 16 Tried And True Tips
0
SHARES
How to get plump lips fast and naturally – 8 useful tips
0
SHARES
How to get rid of bloating in stomach as soon as possible
0
SHARES
How To Prevent Lupus Disease Naturally
View more in
Everything on vkool.com
GENERAL HEALTH
Fitness
Low Carb
Ear Health
Eye Health
Oral Health
Kid’s Health
Bone Health
Liver Health
Heart Health
Men’s Health
Dental Health
Body Building
Kidney Health
Mental Health
Women’s Health
Digestive Health
Strength Training
HEALTH CONDITIONS
Diabetes
Addictions
Skin Issues
Skin Disorders
Health Diseases
Lose Belly Fat
Health Products
Sexual Health
Sexual Conditions
Arthritis Treatment
Respiratory Health
Brain Enhancement
Common Skin Issues
High Blood Pressure
Men’s Sexual Health
Women’s Sexual Health
Anxiety and Depression
BEAUTY TIPS
Workouts
Hair Care
Fat Loss
Anti-Aging
Body Care
Hair Loss
Skin Care
Beauty Tips
Paleo Diet
Hair Growth
Makeup Tips
Weight Loss
Yoga & Pilates
Foods & Recipes
General Beauty
Beauty Products
Fashion and Styles
HOME REMEDIES
Nail Care
Nutrition
Meditation
Back Pain
Knee Pain
Vegan Diet
Hair Health
Facial Skin Care
Skin Care Tips
Healthy Living
Skin Lightening
Herbal Remedies
Natural Remedies
Natural Treatments
Pregnancy & Childbirth
Weight Loss Products
Fitness & Exercise Products
RELATIONSHIPS
Love
Inspiration
Languages
Self-Esteem
Men’s Dating
Romantic Love
Body Language
Healthy Lifestyle
Women’s Dating
Child Development
Joy and Happiness
Habits and Hobbies
Parenting & Families
Stress Management
Teenagers and Parenting
Marriage & Relationships
Relationships & Dating Products
LIFESTYLE
Music
Diy Tips
Hobbies
Intelligence
Cooking Tips
Environment
Photography
Entertainment
Home Recipes
Success Skills
Lifestyle Products
Home Gardening
Home Decoration
Sport and Activities
Home And Gardening
Animal Care & Pets
Education and Learning
Copyright © 2009-2019
VKOOL
. All Rights Reserved.
105 Lonetree Court, Milpitas, CA 95035, USA.
View VKool on Google Maps[email protected] VKool - Health, Fitness, Beauty, News, Lifestyle Magazine
Follow VKool on Google Plus
VKool.com Today | Follow us:
About
Advertise
Write for Us
Contact
VKool.com Today | Follow us:
We deliver. Get the best of About VKool in your box
Get the best of About VKool in your box.Get the best of About VKool in your box.
You can opt-out at any time. Please refer to our Terms - privacy policy for more information.
Advertising Disclosure
Displayed content is offered by businesses which have been compensated. There is a potential effect on how, what, and where products may appear. All effort is made into providing full transparency, not all available products or companies are highlighted. Published material is offered without any slant or bias no matter what affiliation there is with sponsorship or association.
/html>