Does Green Tea Help With Anxiety | Turmeric and Mangosteen
Turmeric and Mangosteen
Holistic Health through Organic Foods | Herbs like Turmeric and Fruits like Mangosteen and more!
Home
About
Content Disclaimer
Contact Us
Does Green Tea Help With Anxiety
May 17, 2018 Be Healthy Green Tea 15
For centuries, the Chinese people have consumed green tea for treating depression. Green tea leaves can help you in weight management, improved brain function keeps you hydrated and in boosting the immune system of your body.
In fact, its medicinal uses date as far back as 5000 years ago. However, green tea is also good for you if you suffer from any symptom of anxiety. This is because it contains an amino acid called L-theanine known to relax the body, decrease stress and relax the mind. Herbal remedies are quite popular with regard to the control of anxiety.
Green Tea Helps With Anxiety
How It Works
As earlier mentioned, L-theanine is an amino acid in green tea that calms and soothes your body and mind when you drink it. This is because green tea with theanine stimulates the production of alpha waves (brain waves) to put you in a relaxed state.
Furthermore, L-theanine also alters the levels of dopamine, GABA, and serotonin, neurotransmitters inside the brain. These affect mood disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, depression, and anxiety.
Theanine decrease symptoms associated with anxiety. This is why you feel mellow after consuming it. It counteracts the effects of caffeine to alleviate your mood so that you feel much better.
L-theanine is also known to enhance the activity of an inhibitory neurotransmitter known as GABA. This, in turn, facilitates anti-anxiety and calming effects. When you have elevated levels of stress hormones like adrenaline and cortisol, you are likely to suffer from anxiety and depression hence the importance of the calming effect of green tea.
L-theanine is so effective because of its ability to cross the barrier that exists between your brain and blood thus affecting your central nervous system.
It is important to know that green tea does not sedate you but will rather help you with the following:
• It will help you feel much more alert.
• It will help you feel more focused.
• It will make you feel calm and happy.
Does green tea help with anxiety? Yes, it does, the above insightful information shows exactly how it helps.
Benefits
There are numerous benefits of using green tea to help with your anxiety symptoms, the notable ones are:
• You can purchase green tea without a prescription.
• Green tea provides you with instant relief from symptoms of anxiety.
• Taking green tea to help with anxiety is less time consuming compared to therapy.
• You will find it is more fun to take green tea for anxiety than it is to take modern medicine.
• It helps to fight anxiety without making you feel drowsy. In fact, green tea will make you more alert.
In addition, green tea has a pleasant characteristic taste and will help you feel very relaxed.
Conclusion
If you are prone to always experiencing symptoms of anxiety, then you should try switching the cups of coffee that you consume with some green tea. You can do this for a week and experience the amazing results by yourself.
This is the most enjoyable and easiest way by which you can consume the all-natural stress buster i.e. L-theanine.
Contributed by Suebeatrice
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Reddit
LinkedIn
Related
green tea
Previous
Why Eat Mangosteen
Next
What Can Turmeric With Milk Do?
15 Comments
Stacie
February 9, 2019 at 12:47 am
I had no idea that green tea could help with anxiety. I always thought it must be bad for anxiety because of the caffeine in it. Thanks for the heads up!
Reply
Dana Vento
February 9, 2019 at 12:55 am
Well, this is the best news I’ve heard all day! I love green tea to begin with. It’s nice to know it can help ease the stress.
Reply
Jesyka
February 9, 2019 at 1:05 am
I’ll have to give this a try! I love the way green tea tastes, and I know it’s good for my body. If it can help my mind, too, all the better!
Reply
Paula Schuck
February 9, 2019 at 1:09 am
Well to be honest I know a lot about anxiety and didn’t realize this was something that could help. I always drink green tea at my Brother’s house. His wife is Japanese and it’s culturally just something that is very integrated into their daily routine. Now I am convinced that I need to buy more for us here too. My oldest girl could drink it for her anxiety I think. If I put a bit of honey in it she’d like it I think. This was useful information, thanks.
Reply
Audrey
February 9, 2019 at 4:22 am
I like to have green tea on occasion. I was not aware that it’ll help with anxiety. This is very useful information!
Reply
Theresa
February 9, 2019 at 7:50 am
I love sipping on green tea and knew it had great health benefits, but I didn’t know it helps with anxiety too. I’ll have to tell my daughter because she has so much anxiety now that she’s in college.
Reply
Marcie W.
February 9, 2019 at 8:46 am
I struggle with anxiety, as well as occasional panic attacks. I’m willing to give any solution a try, especially a delicious one like green tea.
Reply
Sara Welch
February 9, 2019 at 11:20 am
I thought green tea was really only beneficial for energy! I didn’t realize it would also help with anxiety! This is great news!
Reply
Emmanuel Damian
February 9, 2019 at 11:47 pm
I personally love Green tea! It’s really a natural wonder! I like drinking it.
Reply
Terri Steffes
February 9, 2019 at 11:55 pm
Green tea has always helped me be calm in the morning. In the afternoon I get a different effect.
Reply
Subhashish Roy
February 10, 2019 at 12:44 am
Green tea has many benefits which is now drawing people in large numbers.Thanks for sharing.Great learning.
Reply
Shannon Gurnee
February 10, 2019 at 1:31 pm
I had no idea that green tea helped with anxiety. I would love to check it out.
Reply
Autumn Murray
February 11, 2019 at 7:08 am
I love green tea and had no clue it helps with anxiety. I need to drink it more ofen!
Reply
Danielle Faith
February 11, 2019 at 1:20 pm
Green tea and smelling peppermint oil are my two favorite ways to ease my anxiety!
Reply
katrina kroeplin
February 12, 2019 at 12:07 am
i def need to try this as my anxiety has been through the roof this year with so many things. thanks for the information.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Subscribe to get the latest posts
Popular Posts
Effects Of Turmeric Curcumin In Kidney Disease
Benefits of Orange and Turmeric Juice
6 Reasons Why Sports Athletes Should Use Turmeric
15 Amazing Milk Thistle Benefits
Surprising Turmeric And Saffron Health Benefits
Recent Posts
6 Reasons Why Sports Athletes Should Use Turmeric April 16, 2019
8 Amazing Health Effects of Green Tea March 11, 2019
10 Amazing Moringa Benefits March 8, 2019
10 Amazing Health Benefits Of Honey March 3, 2019
Top 10 Health Benefits of Ginger February 21, 2019
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Search for:
Categories
Apple Cider Vinegar
Cinnamon
Coconut
Cranberry
Ginger
Green Tea
Herbal Tea
Honey
Malunggay
Mangosteen
Milk Thistle
Saffron
Turmeric
Disclosure
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program (and other potential affiliate networks), an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Site Map – Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 | WordPress Theme by MH Themes
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok