17 Weeks Pregnant: What To Expect With Your Growing Tummy & Baby
UAE
Bahrain
Egypt
Iraq
Jordan
Kuwait
Pakistan
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Sign Up
Contact Us
العربية
Search
Search
sidr
Home
Products
My Pregnancy
Weekly Guide
Nutrition
Healthy Snacks on the Go
The Skinny on Pregnancy Weight Gain
Healthy Tips
Pregnancy and Fatigue
Digestion Issues – Relief Is Near
Getting Ready for Baby
Labor and Delivery
Feeding My Baby
Breast Feeding
Basics of Breast-Feeding
Does Your Baby Receive Enough Milk
Mum's Diet
Comfortable Breastfeeding Positions
Introduction to Formula
How to Prepare Infant Formula
Weaning
When to Introduce Solid Foods
Types of Food
Solid Food Introduction
Cognition
Important Elements for Brain and Eye Development
Enhancing Cognitive Development
Milestones
Developmental Milestones and Feeding Skills
Milestones for Cognitive Development
Nutrition Experts
My Babies Development
Monthly Guidance on Babies Growth
Baby at the End of the First Year
Babies Nutrition as they Grow
Weight and Height Related to Age
Vaccines
Why Similac 3 ?
Our Heritage
Key Benefits of Similac 3
Video
SimiMama Club
Similac Gold 3
Blog
Home
My Pregnancy
Weekly Guide
Week 17
17 Weeks Pregnant
Drag to read about different week
Drag to read about different week
week dropdown 01 Week 02 Week 03 Week 04 Week 05 Week 06 Week 07 Week 08 Week 09 Week 10 Week 11 Week 12 Week 13 Week 14 Week 15 Week 16 Week 17 Week 18 Week 19 Week 20 Week 21 Week 22 Week 23 Week 24 Week 25 Week 26 Week 27 Week 28 Week 29 Week 30 Week 31 Week 32 Week 33 Week 34 Week 35 Week 36 Week 37 Week 38 Week 39 Week 40 Week
Preparing for the inaugural breath.
Your baby’s development
Getting ready for breathing and, yup, more growing!
This week, your baby’s lungs are almost able to function. His/Her lungs will finish branching as they are being prepared to take in oxygen. During your 17th week of pregnancy:
This week, your baby’s lungs are almost able to function. His/Her lungs will finish branching as they are being prepared to take in oxygen. During your 17th week of pregnancy:
Little hiccups continue, only now you might feel them.
A necessary fat called brown fat develops under your baby’s skin. This will help keep her warm after birth. Additional fat layers will develop later in pregnancy.
Your baby is about 11.5 to 14 cm long, about the length of a large orange.
Continue Reading Read Less
Your nutrition and health
Continue boosting your pregnancy diet.
As you know, eating a balanced diet with colorful, nutritious foods and taking a prenatal multivitamin significantly impact you and your baby’s health.
During your seventeenth week of pregnancy, it’s important to continue with these specific nutrients (be sure to check with your doctor before making any significant dietary changes):
As you know, eating a balanced diet with colorful, nutritious foods and taking a prenatal multivitamin significantly impact you and your baby’s health.
During your seventeenth week of pregnancy, it’s important to continue with these specific nutrients (be sure to check with your doctor before making any significant dietary changes):
Protein: lean beef, chicken, turkey, beans, tofu
Iron: lean red meat, chicken, fish, beans and iron-fortified whole-wheat breads and cereals
Calcium: Nonfat or low-fat milk, yogurt, cheese, and soy products that are fortified with calcium
Folic acid (folate): Leafy green vegetables, broccoli, and breads and cereals that are fortified with folic acid
Vitamin C: Orange juice, citrus fruits
Zinc: Meat, seafood, dried beans, chickpeas, and breakfast cereals that are fortified with zinc
Continue Reading Read Less
Things to think about pregnancy at 17 weeks
Keep the B12 in your bonnet.
You don’t have to obsess about it, but you definitely don’t want to forget about vitamin B12. Vitamin B12: dietary intake is very low in vegetarian diets and absent in vegan diets. B12 is an An essential B vitamin for the formation of all body tissues, red cell formation and normal neurological function and it’s also important for the correct genetic code replication in cells . Required amounts of B12 Vit. are 2.4 g, 2.6 g and 2.8 g respectively for pre-pregnat, pregnant and lactating woman .
You don’t have to obsess about it, but you definitely don’t want to forget about vitamin B12. Vitamin B12: dietary intake is very low in vegetarian diets and absent in vegan diets. B12 is an An essential B vitamin for the formation of all body tissues, red cell formation and normal neurological function and it’s also important for the correct genetic code replication in cells . Required amounts of B12 Vit. are 2.4 g, 2.6 g and 2.8 g respectively for pre-pregnat, pregnant and lactating woman .
Vitamin B12 is only found in foods of animal origin, or fortified foods such as breakfast cereals, so vegetarians should choose foods from sources that are allowable, or from proper supplementation.
Here is a list of common foods that contain vitamin (B12):
milk/dairy products, meat , poultry, fish and eggs.
Women who do not consume meat or dairy foods should discuss with their healthcare professional the need for a supplemental source of vitamin B12 during pregnancy, such as a prenatal vitamin that contains 100% RDA for vitamin B12.
Continue Reading Read Less
What happens next week?
Growing by leaps and bounds.
Your baby’s number 1 priority this week is growth. You may even feel your baby start to move.
See Next Week >
Sitemap
Contact Us
Unsubscribe
Abbott Nutrition Products
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
© Abbott Laboratories, 2016
You are about to exit the Abbott family of websites for a 3rd party website.
Links which take you out of Abbott worldwide websites are not under the control of Abbott, and Abbott is not responsible for the contents of any such site or any further links from such site. Abbott is providing these links to you only as a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement of the linked site by Abbott. Do you wish to continue to the requested website?
CancelOK
Breastfeeding Disclaimer
Breastfeeding is the best source of infant nutrition. Good maternal nutrition is important for the preparation and maintenance of breastfeeding. When thinking of using infant formula, a mother should be aware of
the financial and social implications of formula feeding,
the difficulty of reversing the decision not to breastfeed and
the care that must be taken to prevent partial formula feeding from interfering with lactation.
In addition, proper preparation of powder or concentrated liquid infant formula requires the use of boiled water for the purposes of mixing formula and cleaning implements and the manufacturer’s mixing instructions must always be followed. Improper mixing or preparation may make a baby sick. A healthcare professional should always be consulted before initiating formula feeding.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use