L-Theanine: Reduce Stress & Anxiety While Boosting Focus
Home
About
Latest Focus
Nootropics City
Nootropics For Sale
Nootropics City Shop
Best Nootropic Supplements
FREE Customized Nootropic Stacks
Nootropics
About Nootropics
Nootropic Supplement Reviews
Best Nootropics For
Nootropics for Focus and Concentration
Nootropics for Memory
ADHD
Adult ADHD
Natural ADHD Treatments
ADHD Alternative Treatments
Child ADHD
Brain Foods
Contact Us
0 - items
Cart empty
Home
→
Nootropics for Stress
→
L-Theanine: Reduce Stress & Anxiety While Boosting Focus
L-Theanine: Reduce Stress & Anxiety While Boosting Focus
$4.99 – $29.99
L-Theanine benefits can NOT be understated…
Reduce stress and anxiety, while improving focus and mental clarity! Now available in 20, 40, 60, 90, 120, 150, & 180 Capsules!
Click Here to Buy L-Theanine on Sale, Today!
Quant/Bottle Choose an option12015018020406090 Clear
Add to cart
SKU: B009 Categories: Nootropics for ADHD, Nootropics for Anxiety, Nootropics for Attentiveness, Nootropics for Beginners, Nootropics for Brain Health, Nootropics for Energy, Nootropics for Focus, Nootropics for mental clarity, Nootropics for Overall Brain Health, Nootropics for Stacking, Nootropics for Stress
Description
Additional information
Reviews (0)
Description
L-Theanine: Reduce Stress and Anxiety While Boosting Calm Focus
L-Theanine Now on Sale! Now Available in 20, 40, 60, 90, 120, 150, & 180 L Theanine Capsules!
L-Theanine *(COA) – Certificate of Authenticity & Quality
** NOTE: We have officially teamed up with our friends over at Nootropics City. Please DO NOT use our on-site shopping cart to place an order. Instead, simply click on ANY of the L-theanine links throughout the product description to purchase your item. You will also be able to easily add additional nootropics to your cart from there. Thank you!
L-Theanine is an amino acid that is commonly found in green tea. It is responsible for providing a relaxed focus, which is why it is commonly stacked with Caffeine. Caffeine provides the boosted energy and L-theanine benefits and compliments that energy with a calm focus, while eliminating the jitters.
L-theanine Benefits:
Reduces stress.
Relaxation without drowsiness and sedative effects.
Improved concentration and focus.
Improve mental clarity.
Works synergistically with other nootropics and can potentiate nootropic effects
It has a particularly positive synergistic effect with caffeine, reducing side effects and magnifying the impact on focus
Shown to increase a calm focus and attention.
Can help to improve sleep quality while promoting feelings of relaxation.
Reduce Stress and Improve Focus and Concentration when You Need it Most!
There are times when we may feel like we have the weight of the world on our shoulders and it won't stop accumulating.
We start to feel overwhelmed.
Our anxiety increases until stress takes over completely.
That is when things have a tendency to go from bad to worse…
Focus and Stress
Focus commonly dwindles as our stress levels progress, making it difficult to get any sort of grasp on the circumstances that are causing us stress.
This causes our stress levels to increase further. This adds to the “weight.”
We don't usually have the time to sit down with a pot of tea, collect our thoughts and attempt to physically and emotionally decompress during these stressful times.
When we have that rare “opportunity” to go out and buy a cup of tea, it can cost upwards of $5. Not to mention, wind up cold and gross by the time we actually remember to drink it because we were so caught up in our stress and anxiety the minute we returned from our trip to the jam-packed, over-priced coffee shop that still can't spell your name right on the cup!
$5 should produce the correct spelling of “Howie” once in a while! Am I wrong? And another thing…
OK, my ADHD nearly got the best of me there. Luckily my l-theanine nootropic supplement stack wasn't far from reach.
So what's the solution?
Prepare to Chill Out:
We have taken the l-theanine benefits and encapsulated it for a simple, safe, and easy way to help reduce that stress and increase focus and clarity!
The more we can focus, the easier it gets to manage the stress. And it took all of 12 seconds to take the l-theanine supplement.
Why add weight on top of the world that is already resting on your shoulders?
Like all nootropic supplements, they are not all created equal.
We can only experience the full potential of l-theanine benefits from the top nootropics of the highest quality. Convenience is nice and important, but it means nothing if the quality is lacking.
Focus Here and Now provides the highest quality for all of the top nootropic supplements. L-theanine is no exception and should be a nootropic supplement that you always have readily available.
It can be taken at any time of day and does not leave you feeling drowsy.
It provides the relaxed focus that we need when we are feeling everyday stress or when we feel like the weight of the world is perched upon our shoulders.
Tame your stress and unlock focus, concentration and mental clarity with L-Theanine benefits!
The Bottom Line about L-Theanine
The bottom line is that L-Theanine provides a number of different cognitive benefits impacting a more positive mood, cognitive, and overall health. It makes a great addition to virtually any nootropic stack. However, if you still have no idea how to properly stack L-theanine into your nootropic stack, you can fill out our brief form and allow us to create a customized nootropic stack for you for FREE! We will take your personal cognitive needs and goals to develop the best nootropic stack for those needs. All of this is done for you comprehensively and for free!
L-Theanine is an amino acid naturally found in green tea. L-Theanine promotes relaxation without the drowsiness or negative side effects associated with other calming agents. It has a synergistic effect on caffeine, reducing side effects and magnifying the impact on focus.
L-theanine is now available in virtually any size you could need. Buy L-theanine in 20, 40, 60, 90, 120, 150, & 180 capsules, today!
*NOTE: These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Additional information
Weight
4 oz
Dimensions
2 × 2 × 4 in
Quant/Bottle
120, 150, 180, 20, 40, 60, 90
Reviews
There are no reviews yet.
Only logged in customers who have purchased this product may leave a review.
Related products
Sunifiram – Strong Nootropic is 1000x as Potent as Piracetam!
$8.99 – $46.99 Select options
Buy Pramiracetam Samples | Racetams | 20 Capsules | 250 mg
$11.99 Add to cart
Phenylpiracetam – A Potent and Powerful Nootropic Supplement
$19.99 – $144.99 Select options
Ashwagandha: Best to Boost Mood & Energy and Reduce Anxiety!
$4.99 – $27.99 Select options
Nootropic City Search
Search for:
Search
Product Categories
Natural Nootropics (1)
Nootropics for Addiction & Withdrawal (1)
Nootropics for ADHD (34)
Nootropics for Anxiety (27)
Nootropics for Attentiveness (41)
Nootropics for Beginners (15)
Nootropics for Brain Health (20)
Nootropics for Depression (21)
Nootropics for Energy (37)
Nootropics for Alertness (19)
Nootropics for Focus (42)
Nootropics for Learning and Studying (23)
Nootropics for Memory (34)
Nootropics for mental clarity (8)
Nootropics for Mental Energy (24)
Nootropics for Mood Enhancement (21)
Nootropics for Motivation (20)
Nootropics for Overall Brain Health (34)
Nootropics for Productivity (17)
Nootropics for Sleep (4)
Nootropics for Stacking (39)
Nootropics for Stress (25)
Nootropics Samples (19)
Nootropics to Prevent Cognitive Decline (24)
Potent Nootropics (22)
Racetam Class Nootropics (18)
Uncategorized (0)
Focus Here and Search
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
0 - items
© 2017 Brainiactive, LLC. - Proud Creators & Operators of Focus HERE and NOW - Own Your ADHD & Optimize Your Mind with Nootropics That Work!	- Designed by Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
{{{ data.variation.price_html }}}
{{{ data.variation.availability_html }}}