Get Moving to Ease Depression - Live Calm
Live Calm
Imagine how good your life could be.
Home
Archives
Profile
Subscribe
« Getting Help for Depression | Main | The Health Benefits of Saying Thanks »
11/12/2010
Get Moving to Ease Depression
Research has shown that getting active can reduce depression symptoms. Here's how to add an exercise program to your treatment plan.
If you have been diagnosed with depression, you may be following the traditional depression treatment of antidepressant medications and therapy. In addition, your doctor may recommend some lifestyle changes that can help you feel better. One of the best is adding exercise, because physical activity has been shown to reduce depression symptoms.
Depression Treatment: Why Exercise Helps
“There is a connection between stimulating your heart rate and your brain function,” says Julie Walther Scheibel, MEd, a counselor at Concordia Seminary Counseling and Resource Center in St. Louis, Mo.
In a detailed analysis of 80 studies on the subject of exercise and depression, researchers found that:
Exercise helped depression both immediately and over a span of time.
Exercise helped all those studied, but especially people who were in the worst state, physically or psychologically speaking, at the beginning of the exercise program.
Exercise helped adults in particular, and men and women equally.
The more someone exercised, the less depressed he became.
The best anti-depression regimen was a combination of psychotherapy and exercise.
More studies are still needed to determine exactly how exercise helps, but scientists think activity reduces levels of stress hormones and improves physical fitness, thereby alleviating thedepression symptoms. In addition, the socialization, distraction from daily stress, and self-esteem that often come with group exercise may play a part in relieving symptoms.
Depression Treatment: What Type of Exercise Is Best?
The answer to that question isn’t clear; what is clear is that any exercise is better than none at all.
After consulting with your physician, "I would recommend exercising at least three to five times a week for an hour,” says Walther Scheibel, who recommends a combination of cardiovascular exercise — also known as aerobic exercise — and weight training.
“There is no excuse not to exercise,” adds Walther Scheibel. She suggests that people should participate in physical activities that they enjoy and that work with their lifestyle and budget. “Walking, running, biking, swimming, and group exercise classes" are all good exercise options.”
Depression Treatment: Getting Started
If you are interested in exercising to relieve your depression symptoms, talk with your mental health provider. He or she can work with you to help figure out how to fit exercise into your overall depression treatment plan.
Talk with your primary doctor as well, especially if you have a health condition like heart disease, diabetes, or high blood pressure. Your doctor can recommend exercises that will be safe and effective for you.
Healthy adults can aim for 150 minutes of moderate cardiovascular exercises, like walking, jogging, or biking, each week; add strengthening exercises, such as push-ups, sit-ups, or weight training, at least twice each week.
A qualified personal trainer at your gym or local community center can help you develop a comprehensive routine that sets fitness goals as well. And recruiting an exercise partner may be just the motivation you need to commit to a regular program that will bring you both physical and psychological benefits.
By Krisha McCoy, MS
Medically reviewed by Kevin O. Hwang, MD, MPH
Posted at 06:31 PM | Permalink
| Reblog (0)
Comments
You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the comment feed for this post.
You hit the nail on the head. People who realize the importance of connecting, communicating on an emotional level, and cooperating with others to enhance their greatness IMHO have a distinct edge.
Posted by: cheap supra shoes | 04/23/2011 at 02:37 AM
discount nike men shoespayments should be referred to reputable housing experts. “The people most adversely
Posted by: cheap nike | 12/15/2011 at 01:08 AM
great blog. I'm trying the South Beach diet. I'm currently 133lbs I lost 28 lbs last year but hit the plateau so currently doing Tracy and South Beach. Can't do her diet. Looks very limited but I still love her! Check out my blog at www.corkonianblonde.wordpress.com :-)
Posted by: Slimming soft gel | 04/14/2012 at 08:59 AM
Your Blog is very good, I like it! Thank you for you sharing!Your blog is really helps for my search and i really like it.I just cant stop reading this. Its so cool, so full of information that I just didn't know.
Posted by: supreme hats cheap | 06/25/2012 at 02:40 AM
The comments to this entry are closed.
Subscribe to this blog's feed
Archives
November 2012
February 2012
November 2010
October 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
Live Calm
Amyen Evert