How To Get Rid Of Eczema: 13 Natural Remedies Backed By Research
Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact us
Join Our Newsletter
EBooks
Aromatherapy
Beauty
Food & Nutrition
Health
Home & Garden
News
How To Get Rid Of Eczema: 13 Natural Remedies Backed By Research
By Jenny Hills, Nutritionist and Medical Writer Health
Eczema is a chronic inflammatory skin condition that can affect people of all ages, but especially young children and infants. Eczema comes in many forms and most of these forms tend to cause red itchy skin rashes. Persistent flare-ups of eczema can cause the skin to become thickened and scaly, and sometimes blister-like bumps can appear which ooze fluid and become crusty scabs.
Advertisement
Atopic dermatitis is the most common type of eczema and it can affect any area of the body. It is common to have itchy patches of eczema on your hands, feet, upper chest, around the neck and facial area, and even on the scalp. It can be especially sore and irritating when it occurs inside the bend of the elbows and knees as the skin there constantly moves and stretches. Infant eczema can affect the face and scalp.
The itching sensation on the inflamed skin can lead to intense scratching which can damage the skin even more and cause bacterial skin infections.
If you suffer from this uncomfortable skin condition, there are many natural cures to get rid of eczema quicker.
In this article I am going to cover 13 home remedies for eczema backed by research. These home remedies can help you find relief from its symptoms like dry skin, itchiness, and red rashes.
I am also going to look at the reasons why some people experience eczema and what causes the breakout of itchy red rashes. This information can help you to know how to prevent eczema flare-ups and cope with its symptoms. You will also find helpful natural remedies to treat atopic dermatitis.
The Symptoms of Eczema
Itchiness ranging from a mild tickle to a severe and intense itch is a symptom of nearly all types of eczema. In fact, the skin can become itchy before the appearance of any rash. Eczema is also a common reason for itchy bumps on your elbows.
Respected dermatologist Dr. Debra Jaliman says that dry skin is usually associated with eczema. The affected skin often develops a rash and become thickened or scaly.1 These patches of reddened skin can turn a brownish-gray color and the skin can feel like leather.
The symptoms of eczema can be aggravated if a person scratches the itchy rash because this allows Staphylococcus aureus bacteria to infect broken skin. The end result is that the skin becomes raw, swollen and very sensitive. It may also ooze fluid which can leave the skin with crusty patches when the fluid dries.
Eczema in infants and children
It is very distressing for parents to see their toddlers and infants suffer from eczema. According to the National Eczema Association, around 10% of all infants in the U.S. suffer from some form of infant eczema.2
The appearance of infant eczema is different from eczema in older children and adults. Depending on the age of your infant, patches of eczema appear in different places. According to the National Eczema Association, the stages of infant eczema are as follows:2
Babies under 6 months. Red patches of “weepy” skin around your baby’s face and on the scalp.
Babies from 6 to 12 months. Patches of eczema develop around the elbows and knees. If these patches become infected, then “pus bumps” can occur which turn crusty when the pus dries.
Toddlers from 2 to 5 years. Your toddler’s eczema thickens and have the appearance of dry, scaly, and inflamed skin. Outbreaks of eczema may be more common around the mouth and eyelids.
Causes of Eczema
According to doctors from the Mayo Clinic, it is not known what exactly causes eczema. Because people with allergies and asthma often have atopic dermatitis, it is thought that atopic dermatitis is connected with an overactive immune system.3
Other causes of eczema could be dry skin, a problem with your skin’s barrier protection, or environmental conditions. Eczema often runs in families.
The Best Home Remedies to Get Rid of Eczema
Natural remedies are an excellent way to treat eczema and to prevent itching by keeping your skin moist and moisturized. This type of treatment method for inflamed skin helps to reduce the temptation to scratch the skin and stops the skin from becoming dry and scaly.
Let’s look at some of the best home remedies that are backed by research for treating the symptoms of eczema.
Advertisement
1. Coconut oil for treating eczema
Virgin coconut oil is a soothing natural home remedy to prevent and treat eczema. Coconut oil provides deep hydration to the skin, protecting it from drying out and becoming scaly. Coconut oil is an effective natural treatment for eczema because it contains antimicrobial, antifungal, antibacterial, and anti-inflammatory agents.7
Research on the healing properties of coconut oil for eczema shows that its antibacterial activities are effective against Staphylococcus aureus bacteria. In fact, a study published in the journal Dermatitis showed that coconut oil also acts as an emollient to moisturize dry skin and kill off bacteria that cause skin infections. It described coconut oil as “useful in the proactive treatment of atopic dermatitis colonization”.8
Coconut oil is also gentle enough to help treat mild to moderate eczema in infants. The International Journal of Dermatology found that virgin coconut oil effectively helps to reduce redness on the inflamed skin of infants, as well as helping to hydrate and soothe dry skin.9
Many eczema sufferers claim that organic unrefined virgin coconut oil helps to keep their outbreaks of eczema under control and gives them better results than much more expensive products.
To use coconut oil to repair skin damaged by eczema all you have to do is apply coconut oil directly to the affected area several times a day and before you go to sleep. Apply the coconut oil daily until the reddish itchy patches of skin have gone completely.
Coconut oil is more than just a way to get relief from dry, flaky skin. If you want to find out more of the health benefits that coconut oil can give you, please read my article about the amazing health benefits of coconut oil, and 60 uses for coconut oil.
2. Apple cider vinegar (ACV)
Raw unprocessed apple cider vinegar can reduce the inflammation and relieve the itching caused by eczema. Apple cider vinegar contains high amounts of acetic acid which can help kill off bacterial skin infections and reduce itchiness.
Skin affected by atopic eczema usually has a higher pH level than healthy skin and this is one reason for the itching and inflammation.4 The acid content in apple cider vinegar helps to lower the skin’s pH level, thus helping to reduce the urge to scratch itchy red patches of skin.
Clinical research also backs up the effectiveness of the acidic content of apple cider vinegar on damaged, inflamed skin. For example, a review of studies into acetic acid published on Medscape found that it can help to kill off Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus bacteria in wounds.5
Other studies into using natural remedies for helping to treat eczema have found that bathing the affected skin in acidic water can help to reduce inflammation caused by atopic dermatitis.6
There are several ways in which you can use ACV to naturally relieve the symptoms of eczema.
Use the apple cider vinegar home remedy for eczema method by mixing equal amounts of raw unprocessed ACV and water. Using a cotton ball or a spray bottle, apply the ACV remedy directly to the area of skin affected by eczema. Repeat the ACV treatment twice a day – once in the morning and once in the night before going to bed to speed up the healing process of itchy, inflamed skin.
If you have sensitive skin, dilute the ACV more. Always remember to moisturize your skin after using the ACV eczema treatment. You can use coconut oil or jojoba oil. Jojoba oil is actually a liquid wax. It penetrates the skin deeply and is incredibly rich and moisturizing.
The second natural treatment for eczema is to add 2 cups of ACV to warm or tepid bath water. Soak in this bath for at least 30 minutes. Repeat this treatment for at least 3 times a week to soothe irritated skin. The acidic content of the ACV will help to relieve itching all over your body.
The third method is to take 1-2 tablespoons of ACV and mix it into a cup of water (you can add honey for a better taste). Drink once or twice every day to help get rid of the signs of eczema and prevent further flare-ups. You will also enjoy the many other health benefits of apple cider vinegar and honey.
Using ACV is also one of the 70 habits featured in my e-book 70 Powerful Habits For A Great Health which will guide you how to take positive steps to improve your wellness and overall health.
Advertisement
3. Chamomile for eczema
Chamomile contains soothing properties for any type of inflamed skin and is an excellent therapeutic agent for getting rid of eczema faster. Chamomile is an excellent home remedy for eczema because it contains anti-inflammatory and antibacterial compounds to help soothe infected red patches of skin.
Research into the healing effects of chamomile on eczema found that extracts of the flowers can help to reduce skin inflammation. It is interesting to note, that chamomile extracts showed a similar anti-eczema effect as hydrocortisone ointments and other anti-inflammatory pharmaceutical ointments.10
There are many ways to use chamomile to soothe all types of eczema (including atopic dermatitis), minor burns and sunburn.
You can simply make a cup of soothing chamomile tea and use the chamomile tea bag to soothe itchy skin. Drinking the refreshing tea will help you to relax and will help take your mind off your skin irritation.
You can make an anti-inflammatory chamomile ointment to soothe the itchy skin and kill off bacterial infections on cracked, dry skin. You should add 2-3 drops of chamomile oil to a tablespoon of virgin coconut oil and gently massage into the scaly, red skin. Apply the natural ointment 2-3 times a day every day to speed up healing and prevent bacterial infection.
Chamomile oil is just one of the home remedies that I discuss in the article about the best essential oils for eczema. There you can find how to make a soothing eczema skin salve, a calming lavender spray, and how to use essential oils in the bath for eczema relief.
Chamomile is a common herb to treat various ailments. You can find more useful information about chamomile and other herbs in my e-book the Herbal Remedies Guide. This guide will teach you how to treat common ailments using herbs.
4. Witch Hazel
The main benefit of witch hazel for helping to cure the symptoms of eczema is its astringent and anti-inflammatory properties. This makes witch hazel a helpful home remedy to treat acne, cuts, psoriasis and eczema. Witch hazel is also one of the best natural remedies to get rid of skin rashes.
Witch hazel contains tannins which help to contract skin cells and speed up the healing process. This astringent activity has shown to help alleviate inflammation caused by eczema and prevent skin cell damage. The powerful antioxidant and antibacterial effects of witch hazel will also help avoid damaged skin becoming infected.11
Use witch hazel directly on your affected skin to help dry out weeping sores of severe eczema. Soak a cotton ball in witch hazel and gently apply to areas of skin where you have eczema. Repeat as necessary every day to get relief from eczema symptoms.
Witch hazel is also a natural remedy for insect bites, sunburn, puffy eyes and itchy skin. You can find more information in my article about the top uses of witch hazel for great health.
5. Colloidal oatmeal bath
To help get fast relief from flaky, dry, itchy skin caused by eczema, you can use the healing properties of oatmeal.
Dermatologist, Dr. David Lim recommends using oatmeal for various skin disorders.12 This is because colloidal oatmeal moisturizes the skin and contains antioxidants which are effective in getting rid of the symptoms of eczema like itchiness, dry skin, and skin inflammation. In fact, oatmeal is so gentle and effective that it can be used on babies and infants with eczema. These facts were confirmed in an extensive report on using oatmeal to treat atopic dermatitis. The report said that colloidal oatmeal improved the symptoms of atopic dermatitis and is well tolerated in babies, children, and adults with eczema.13
You can make your own colloidal oatmeal treatment for curing eczema and other itchy skin conditions. To make a soothing oatmeal bath, please do the following:
Take 2 cups of ground oatmeal and put them into an old pair of clean pantyhose and tie loosely.
Draw a bath with warm water making sure that the oatmeal sock is under the faucet and the water flows through it.
Squeeze the sock occasionally to get more of the oat liquid out.
Soak in the tub for 15 minutes. During this time dab the oat sock onto patches of skin where you have eczema to soothe the inflammation itching.
Take the oatmeal bath before going to bed at night to help you sleep better because very often the itchiness caused by eczema is worse during the night.
Advertisement
6. Aloe vera
Aloe vera is a great home remedy to help relieve the painful symptoms of eczema and repair damaged skin. Aloe vera is well-known for having healing properties that help treat burned and itchy skin. This is because it contains anti-inflammatory properties and vitamins which nourish and protect the skin. The antibacterial activities of aloe vera also help to reduce or completely eliminate bacterial skin infections.
A study published in 2014 found that itchy, inflammatory skin conditions are greatly improved when aloe vera is applied directly to the affected area. It reported that the anti-inflammatory effect of aloe vera can help to successfully treat long-term eczema.14
An article entitled “Plants Used to Treat Skin Diseases” published in Pharmacognosy Review explained why aloe vera is effective in speeding up the healing process of eczema. It said that aloe vera increases blood circulation to the affected areas and prevents cell death.15
To quickly relieve itching and scaly skin caused by eczema and at the same time nourish your damaged skin, apply pure aloe vera gel to the affected area. Gently massage the aloe vera gel 2-3 times a day every day until your itchy eczema rash is cured.
Aloe vera is also a natural cure for psoriasis which is mentioned in my article about the best natural ways to naturally relieve psoriasis.
7. Baking soda
Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) is an easy and cheap atopic dermatitis treatment. Baking soda contains anti-inflammatory properties that can help to relieve skin conditions that are characterized by dry, scaly, itchy patches of skin.
The National Eczema Association recommends taking a baking soda bath as an effective home remedy for treating eczema. This is an excellent way to help reduce the discomfort caused by eczema if you have large patches of eczema all over your body.17
Prepare a baking soda bath by adding half a cup of baking soda to a full warm bath. Soak for 20 minutes to relieve the itchy symptoms of eczema. After the bath, don’t forget to apply a mild moisturizer on the affected area.
You can also use baking soda in a paste form if you have small patches of eczema on your hands, arms, face, or behind your elbows or knees. To make natural baking soda remedy for eczema, take one or two tablespoons of baking soda and add enough water to form a thick paste. Apply the remedy to the affected area to relieve itching fast. Leave for few minutes, then rinse off with warm water and apply moisturizer.
Further reading: read my previous article about 9 uses for baking soda as a kitchen medicine.
8. Licorice cream
Licorice is known to help skin conditions like eczema and psoriasis because of its ability to soothe inflamed skin.
According to information published in The Journal of Dermatological Treatment, lab studies have shown that licorice has anti-inflammatory activity, and researchers have tested it for skin conditions that involve inflammation. The study showed that when licorice gel is applied to the skin, it relieves symptoms of itching, swelling, and redness. A gel with 2% licorice worked better than one with 1%.18
Licorice cream can be bought at many online stores.
9. Turmeric for eczema
Turmeric has numerous therapeutic health benefits to relieve many inflammatory conditions, including eczema. The active ingredient of turmeric that has anti-inflammatory properties is curcumin which gives it the bright yellow color and distinct taste.
Many studies have shown that curcumin helps to keep skin healthy and free from itchy red patches. The journal Phytotherapy Research examined many studies into curcumin for skin health and found that it can help to alleviate the symptoms of atopic dermatitis, psoriasis, and acne. It commented that both oral and topical curcumin supplements offer therapeutic benefits for skin health.19
There are many ways to incorporate more turmeric into your daily diet. However, to help treat eczema using curcumin, it is best to regularly take curcumin supplements. Because curcumin is poorly absorbed into the body, look for supplements with piperine included.
You can also use my recipe for making a natural turmeric face mask if you have eczema or psoriasis on your face.
10. Evening primrose oil for atopic dermatitis
Evening primrose oil can also be taken as a supplement or applied topically as an effective natural treatment for eczema. Oil extracts from evening primrose contain essential fatty acids that have a beneficial effect on the skin.
Advertisement
The University of Maryland reports that the most scientifically proven medical use for evening primrose oil is to treat the painful symptoms of eczema. A study into the effectiveness of evening primrose oil in reducing scaling and redness found that over 1,000 people found relief from eczema. Evening primrose oil also helped to reduce itching, swelling, and crusting in both adults and children with atopic dermatitis.20
Although some reports say that evening primrose doesn’t help with eczema symptoms, many people have found it to be effective in completely relieving their itchy skin.
You can make a topical application to nourish dry and flaky skin by adding a few drops of chamomile oil to a tablespoon of evening primrose oil. Apply the remedy to the affected area 2-3 times a day to get relief from red, itchy skin caused by eczema.
You may find that taking evening primrose oil as a supplement could help alleviate the irritation caused by eczema.
11. Urea cream
Although urea cream is not entirely natural, it is extremely effective for curing and preventing outbreaks of eczema. It is a very effective method of soothing irritated, itchy skin and it’s very cheap as well. Of course, urea is a natural ingredient, but the cream containing urea contains some other ingredients that are not natural, but since it is so effective in treating eczema I decided to include it in this article.
Urea cream is a very effective way to quickly moisturize dry, cracked and thickened skin. It can also help to get rid of dead skin cells and remove scaly skin.
You can buy urea cream on drugstores or online. For eczema relief, follow the instructions on the urea cream.
Other Ways to Get Rid of Eczema Naturally
Certain supplements have also shown to be effective in treating the symptoms of eczema. Some of these other ways to naturally get rid of eczema may work for you.
12. GLA supplement
GLA supplements have been shown to be very beneficial in treating eczema.
Some studies suggest that eczema may be caused by the lack of an important enzyme that creates omega 6 fatty acid called GLA. Lack of the enzyme means lack of GLA thus resulting in aggravating eczema. This was outlined in a study published in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. It found that that modest doses of GLA acid showed improvement in itching as a result of atopic dermatitis.21
Therefore the solution might be to take GLA as a supplement. It is recommended to use the GLA supplement for at least 4 weeks. Then symptoms should improve gradually.
13. Probiotics
Our gut needs a proper balance of “good” bacteria for proper digestive system function. If the digestion system doesn’t work properly, our body is more sensitive to allergies and skin irritations.
Studies suggest that taking probiotic supplements can help to prevent eczema in children.22
Further reading: You can read more about probiotics in my article 9 reasons to take probiotics and why it’s so good for you.
How to Prevent Eczema Flare-ups
Eczema is a chronic skin condition which can only be cured until the next flare-up. Therefore, one of the best ways in managing outbreaks of eczema is to take steps to prevent the frequency of eczema flare-ups.
Dermatologist, Dr. Debra Jaliman recommends a few simple tips which can reduce the frequency of eczema outbreaks on your skin:
Moisturize your skin regularly throughout the day to keep a protective barrier on your skin and prevent itchiness.
Try to avoid sudden changes in temperature.
Stress can trigger an eczema flare-up, so try to find ways to manage stress better.
Avoid clothing and other fabrics that can irritate sensitive areas of skin that are prone to eczema flare-ups.
Avoid soaps and detergents that strip the skin of its protective oils.
Dr. Jaliman also said that certain foods can trigger an outbreak.
Avoid trigger foods the cause eczema
It’s important to keep a food diary to try to identify any foods that aggravate your eczema symptoms and then eliminate them from your diet. You may also want to try the raw food diet as it was used to successfully get rid of eczema.
According to Dr. Tim Kenny on Patient.info, some of the most common trigger foods that make your eczema worse are cow’s milk, eggs, soy, wheat, peanuts, cheese, fish, chocolate, artificial food colors and tomatoes.
It might seem a long process if you go through every food, but the fact is that most people eat certain foods all the time. Start with those foods that you eat on a regular basis and by a process of elimination, try to find out which food triggers your itchy breakouts.
Eczema vs Psoriasis – What’s the Difference?
Both eczema and psoriasis are chronic skin diseases that are difficult to manage and cause great discomfort.
Both skin conditions show symptoms of itchy patches of dry skin and thickened skin that is inflamed. Both are connected to the immune system and are triggered by similar conditions. But psoriasis doesn’t affect as many people as eczema and it usually starts showing symptoms after the age of 16. The patches of skin are usually much thicker with psoriasis and are covered with silvery scales.
The good news is that there are many natural home remedies to successfully treat psoriasis and eczema. So give them a try and see what works best for you.
Read these related articles:
1. 8 Reasons to Use Coconut Oil for Eczema
2. The Best Essential Oils For Eczema
3. How to Use Raw Food Diet to Treat Eczema
Article Sources
Skin conditions and eczema
Understanding your infant or toddler’s eczema
Atopic dermatitis (eczema) – causes
Higher pH level, corresponding to that on the skin of patients with atopic eczema
Antiseptics on wounds: an area of controversy
Acidic water bathing could be a safe and effective therapeutic modality for severe atopic dermatitis
Treatment of dermal infections with topical coconut oil
Novel antibacterial and emollient effects of coconut and virgin olive oils in adult atopic dermatitis
The effect of topical virgin coconut oil on SCORAD index, transepidermal water loss, and skin capacitance in mild to moderate pediatric atopic dermatitis
A review of four common medicinal plants used to treat eczema
Antioxidant and potential anti-inflammatory activity of extracts witch hazel on primary human dermal fibroblast cells
Oatmeal
Colloidal oatmeal formulations as adjunct treatments in atopic dermatitis
A comparative study for the topical treatment of atopic dermatitis with Aloe ferox and Aloe vera
Plants used to treat skin diseases
Old fashioned sodium bicarbonate baths for the treatment of psoriasis
To soak or not to soak?
The treatment of atopic dermatitis with licorice gel
Effects of turmeric (curcuma longa) on skin health
Evening primrose oil
Essential fatty acid metabolism and its modification in atopic eczema
Probiotics and prebiotics in preventing food allergy and eczema
How To Get Rid Of Eczema: 13 Natural Remedies Backed By Research was last modified: September 26th, 2018 by Jenny Hills, Nutritionist and Medical Writer
Advertisement
Advertisement
35 Responses to How To Get Rid Of Eczema: 13 Natural Remedies Backed By Research
vida says:
April 15, 2014 at 2:02 pm
Anyone knows of any natural remedies for dandruff please
Reply
Jenny says:
April 15, 2014 at 7:12 pm
Hi Vida, please refer to my article “How to Treat Dandruff Using These Natural Remedies” – https://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/12-natural-treatments-to-stop-dandruff/
Reply
lntan Baharuddin says:
June 24, 2014 at 8:52 am
hi .. l have 3 types of Eczemas….yup..my skin is very sensitive & my immune system is overeactive so, l have asthma too. For my Seborrhoeic dermatitis i.e dandruff-like scalp due to a fungus, l used Nizoral shampoo with anti-fungal & vitaminB5 but, it’ll come back so, l used Henna paste i.e anti-fungal too coz l grow henna tree..It works!
For my contact dermatitis= Prevention Is better than cure..what my skin don’t like, l avoid touching it…save time & money than using the useless cortisteroids that have side-effects that l can’t handle later.l have problems with skin cream too & that drive my dermatologists..nuts!!..haha…
For my atopic dermatitis=l have combination dry-oily skin on certain part of my body so, l’m still trying to control it by growing chamomile ( died recently..sighs 🙁 ) but, my marigold is growing. Those are 2 wonderful herbs for most skin problems & soothing too.
l take supplements of omega3 & 6 ( sometimes l eat salmon, tuna & sardines & l’m growing Evening primrose in my garden now ), selenium ( brazil nuts, avocados & crutaceans /seafood is full of them ( sorry, l’m allergic o seafood so, l eat fruits laden with that anti-oxidant trace minerals, usually asthmatics are low in this mineral ),nope..l don;t take zinc, but it helps too coz l drink milk plus, folate helps better cell turnover & it keeps the skin smooth not scaly ya ) yes, l do take vitamin B complex or just plain folate coz vitamin B3 & B5 helps too in releasing the energy in your cells..healthy skin cells= clear skin rite? 🙂 Other vitamins that helps healing are the anti-oxidants vitamin A,C & E plenty in greens & veggies. They will make your skin younger-looking too ya. Gd luck! 🙂
Reply
lntan Baharuddin says:
June 24, 2014 at 9:01 am
oh yes.. to calm irritation & redness you need anti-inflammatories like curcumin in turmeric ( antiseptic too, eczemas do bleed if scratched ), anthocyanin in dark, blue & purple veggies & fruits like red-purple & blue grapes ( concord is best so, l’m growing grapes ), all berries ( blueberry is best, chokeberry too ),blue corn, butterfly peas flowers ( l grow one ), purple asparagus, red big onions ( deep purple actually & l’m growing them too ), purple artichokes, eggplants etc. Google it! Best of luck ya!
Reply
Irwan says:
June 26, 2014 at 10:36 am
Try black garlic.
My nightly hives and my eczema eruptions are virtually zero occurances for the last 1 year after I go on black garlic supplement with the peelings I used for tea
Reply
titi 4smartfren says:
July 14, 2014 at 2:35 am
I never heard black garlic. Can you explain to me. Thx
Kathy says:
August 11, 2014 at 8:17 pm
Take a B complex at 59 mg twice a day. A multivitamin that includes 200 micrograms (mcg) of mineral selenium. Also 2-3 Brazil nuts give you daily dose of selenium. EFA’s such as fish oil or flaxseed or perilla or hemp seed oil. Dandruff also may be linked to liw stomach acid, which impedes nutrient absorption
Reply
evelyn says:
May 11, 2015 at 12:40 pm
hey Vida, eczema is a sensitive subject for me, for years my eczema was so bad i would often have bloody sores from scratching so much. my heath crazy mother convinced me to try alkalise my body. basically it focuses on ridding your body of acid, which comes from a range of foods and even city air. 4 months later i my eczema, allergies and even asthma haven’t really bothered me in over a month 🙂 i also lost a lot of weight which is a nice bonus. i reccomend highly that you look into it. ive been using this new product that puts hydrogen in the body and helps clear the acid faster than anything, you can check it out at http://www.pure.sevenpoint2.com. all the best!
Reply
Richard McCullough says:
May 4, 2014 at 7:52 pm
I got it bad, my skin is a wreck and I don’t know what to do anymore, I have tried everything.
Reply
Michelle Jeffrey says:
May 14, 2014 at 9:27 pm
Hi Richard. I have suufered from eczema on my feet for years, sometimes it is just unbearable so i can sympathise. I have tried everything and have totally given up on the many different steroid creams prescribed by my doctor. I am now turning to more natural remedies. Lately my eczema has improved a great deal, first time in years. I soak my feet several times a day in a sea salt bath, dead sea salts in particular have been effective and easy to get hold of….also my mum has a friend who has severe eczema all over her body, and has to be hospitalised…the doctors wrap her head to toe in Zinc bandages and it is only thing that helps. I have been taking a zinc supplement as well as the foot soaks, and it has helped a great deal….hope that helps and give it a go…..good luck 🙂
Reply
Jenny says:
May 14, 2014 at 10:24 pm
Thank you for sharing your experience!
Reply
alia says:
May 15, 2014 at 4:30 am
I have eczema too. Currently using MooGoo Irritable Skin Balm and it kinda works wonder for me. Good thing it is made from natural ingredient. Maybe you can try them too
Reply
Bobbi-Jo Larrabee says:
June 5, 2014 at 2:45 am
I suffered for years until I removed cow’s milk from my diet. Turns out I am allergic to the protein in cow’s milk. I gave up milk and my skin began to clear up in a few days. I’ve had clear skin for 3 years now.
Reply
Jenny says:
June 5, 2014 at 3:17 am
So happy to hear you are okay now!
Reply
Dennis Lim says:
June 27, 2014 at 9:04 am
Try a food called Mila seed from genesis pure which has a lot of omega -3 , fibre , anti oxidant among others. We have help a lot of people with skin problems, diabetes, high blood pressure and sugar with this food alone.
Reply
Kelley Diveto says:
August 28, 2014 at 3:02 am
Richard,
Have you tried Renew lotion? This worked for my son. It also comes in a body wash, hand wash and bath oil.
Reply
rachel says:
May 14, 2014 at 7:54 pm
Try castor oil. Massage it in to problem areas. Use saran wrap or shower cap. Leave in up to 8 hours. Wash out with head and shoulders shampoo.
Reply
pavani says:
June 2, 2014 at 7:02 am
hi
im suffering with skin pblm
i had small bumps on my face.sometimes those are irritable
please suggest me what to do
Reply
Jenny says:
June 2, 2014 at 8:29 am
Hi Pavani, this is something that a doctor or dermatologist needs to see. It’s impossible to give advice over the internet, as there are many things it can be, and the description is too general.
Reply
pavani says:
June 10, 2014 at 3:22 pm
thanq for your suggestion jenny.
im applying olive oil.now it seems better.those are going to reduce.
im 31 yrs old.since teenage im having sking pblm.then i didnot taken any precautions.till now im suffering.
i met many doctors,.but i did’t get proper treatment for my skin type.
im tired with it.
Reply
Cliff says:
June 4, 2014 at 1:29 am
Try soaking with coconut water for a week and very thick Puer tea for another week
Reply
Toby Smith says:
June 4, 2014 at 2:13 am
I am a 57 year old female. I go out in the sun and get the little itchy fluid filled blisters or bumps. I’ve been getting this for about 25 years now. I was on a tropical cruise and it happened again. I went to their doctor and he said it was sun eczema. Do you or anyone else know what I can do for this?
Reply
Jenny says:
June 4, 2014 at 2:47 am
You may want to find more information in Livestrong website – http://www.livestrong.com/article/534340-eczema-sun-allergy/
Reply
Brenda Raulerson says:
July 15, 2014 at 1:59 am
I have been looking for options to treat my eczema, and I will try these out, Thank you
Reply
veronica says:
August 5, 2014 at 8:09 am
how to treat a very dry skin?its very shameful for me to go out whenever i forgot to apply any lotions or moisturizer on my skin
Reply
Jenny says:
August 8, 2014 at 4:42 am
Hi Veronica, you can find homemade facial cleansers for dry skin here – https://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/top-homemade-facial-cleansers/. You can get more tips in Wikihow website – http://www.wikihow.com/Treat-Dry-Skin-Naturally. You can also use olive oil cleanser which works as a natural cleanser and moisturizer. Just rub the oil into your skin and drape a warm, damp cloth over your face until it cools. then wipe away the excess oil.
Reply
Waternne says:
March 13, 2015 at 12:45 am
Try Immune First, mushroom beta glucan, it helped my son’s skin allergy. The polysaccharide derived from the mushrooms known as beta glucan is thought to have a significant impact on priming the immune system.
Reply
Posh Paula CA CMT says:
August 8, 2015 at 11:08 pm
This is the 2nd place I’m leaving this recipe, so I hope it gets to everyone who is (like I was) desperate to find relief and willing to try natural remedies rather than using topical steroids to treat skin problems. Topical steroids will break your skin down if used too much or too long – I speak from experience: I have 2 large splits in my skin that was misdiagnosed by the medical profession; they told me it was just a varicose vein popping out when in fact it was the topical steroid (triamcinolone) that was breaking down my skin and caused it to split and scar. Wish I could sue them! Anyway, this has worked for me and my husband: 1/2 oz evening primrose oil, 1/2 oz avocado oil, 1/2 oz flaxseed oil, 1/2 oz hazelnut oil, 6 drops geranium, 4 drops elemi, 4 drops tea tree, 3 drops lemon, 2 drops ylang ylang, 2 drops benzoin resin. Note: Geranium oil can lower your blood sugar level, so use caution or omit it if you have hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). Apply to affected area as necessary. I sincerely hope this helps someone else out there who suffered with this condition.
Reply
jackline says:
September 3, 2015 at 12:24 pm
plis help me to cure my face which has got big acnes, spots and scars…visited so many dermatologists but no cure at all…help me plis
Reply
Jenny says:
September 5, 2015 at 10:03 pm
Hi Jackline, I have several articles about acne, but I’m not sure if they are going to make any difference in your case, especially that you’ve visited so many dermatologists. As I’m not a doctor, I don’t know what I can help where other dermatologists have failed. I still believe that for severe type of acne, consulting with a professional dermatologist is the right solution. However if you still want to try few things at home for acne, you can refer to the following:
1. The Best Essential Oils for Acne
2. DIY Face Wash For Acne, Pimples And Blackheads
3. Turmeric Face Mask Recipe
4. Why You Should Wash Your Face With Apple Cider Vinegar
5. The Best Herbs for Acne, Including Other Natural Acne Treatments
Reply
eczema-story.com says:
October 31, 2015 at 10:05 am
Great article – some new ones in there we were not aware of! We can’t use coconut oil unfortunately as our daughter is allergic. For some additional eczema triggers to avoid, see our story, 14 Eczema Triggers Your Child Should Avoid
http://eczema-story.com/2015/10/16/14-eczema-triggers-your-child-should-avoid-2/
Cheers!
Christine
Reply
Nyliram says:
January 16, 2016 at 9:12 pm
My son suffered from eczema when he was a baby. He even lost his baby hair because of it. I used to cry and hated myself (perfectionist mother syndrome) because I felt sorry for my baby. His skin was so raw and he suffered for months. I tried everything but the only thing that worked was Aveeno cream. I used to apply it all over his skin every hour. Thank God! It only took a matter of few days and he was perfect again! He is now 17yrs old and still uses Aveeno to make sure the eczema will not come back. UK patients can now get this on prescription. At the time, the range wasn’t widely available and my chemist had to make special orders for it. Now it’s available almost everywhere. This isn’t an advertisement. I’m just sharing my experience.
Reply
Mayra Quiroz says:
February 13, 2017 at 3:00 am
I have eczema. I have tried many creams to relieve the pain. Foderma serum helped me immensely. It took several times to apply it until it worked. It did not get rid of the eczema but it relieved a lot of the symptoms pain and redness.
Reply
Yeasha says:
August 17, 2017 at 12:54 pm
I have eczema.. i feel sick of it… i feel like i have burnt skin all the time.. its painful, extremely swollen in hot temperatures… i use creams.. none work besides Nevea greasy lotion in Shea Butter.. i also have severe asthma.. few of my bronchioles dont work.. i also have some cures for it.. get Faracort daily 2 puff, in the morning and night.. also get Sulvatumol and use Montair original one from India. U can get rid of asthma in a month.
Reply
anntonywoore says:
August 28, 2017 at 10:35 am
Hi jenny Hills
I also faced this eczema disease from the last 40 years and more but from the past 6 years, I am getting enough relief. That time I felt so reckless and hopeless that I tried so many things to get rid of it like using cortisone cream, oil etc. At last, one of my friends told me about some material on pH balancing (or alkalizing) diets, drinking lots of water (moderate amounts regularly throughout the day) and engaging in twenty minutes of easy aerobic exercise (approved by your Doctor of course) for at least three months. So it is really necessary to commit yourself 100% to the diet and do some aerobic exercise to get the cure of eczema.
Thanks
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Join Our 2 Million Fans
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Our Trusted Reference Sites
CDC
HSS agency charged with protecting the public health and safety.
Mayo Clinic
Trusted, award-winning medical and health information resource.
American Cancer Society
American Cancer Society is fighting cancer with research, education, patient care, and rehabilitation.
Merck Manuals
The world’s most widely-used medical guides.
U.S. News
Trusted medical directory that includes 750,000+ of America’s physicians and surgeons.
Department of Health and Human Services
The main governmental agency for protecting the health of U.S. citizens.
Medline Plus
Diseases, symptoms, injuries, and more with photographs and illustrations.
NIH
Extensive and trusted resource for medical research in the United States.
JAMA
The most widely circulated peer-reviewed medical journal in the world.
New England Journal of Medicine
Publishes new medical research findings, review articles, and editorial opinion.
PubMed Central
Free digital archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature.
BioMed Central
Provides open access to hundreds of peer-reviewed medical journals.
At Healthy and Natural World, our mission is to empower people to take control of their own health by providing comprehensive, practical and well researched information.
Our articles are based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by experts. We strive to be objective, unbiased, honest and to present both sides of the argument.
Our articles contain scientific references which are numbered. Some of the references are clickable and some are found at the end of the article in the references section. The references are clickable and linked to peer-reviewed scientific papers or authority medical sites.
Our content does not constitute a medical consultation. If you have a medical problem you should seek advice from a doctor and other health care professional. For additional information please see our Full Disclaimer and Privacy Policy.
The entire content of this website is copyrighted and should not be copied without permission. © 2019 Healthy and Natural World
Healthy And Natural World