Can Magnesium Give You a Headache? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
Can Magnesium Give You a Headache?
Charlotte Waterworth
About the Author:
Charlotte Waterworth
Based in London, Charlotte Waterworth has been writing about health since 2000. Her work has appeared in trade magazines, including "Independent Community Pharmacist," "Pharmafocus," "Current Drug Discovery" and "Hospital Healthcare Europe." She is a member of the European Medical Writers Association. She holds an honors Bachelor of Science in biochemistry and a doctoral degree in gene therapy, both from Cardiff University.
Most people suffer from headaches from time to time. Although not usually harmful, headaches are, nevertheless, annoying and at times highly painful. They may be triggered by a number of factors including alcohol, caffeine, hormonal fluctuations, stress, noise and light. Headaches usually respond well to over-the-counter painkillers such as ibuprofen or aspirin, and rest. Rather than triggering a headache, magnesium is sometimes used to help prevent headaches, particularly migraine-type headaches. Get medical clearance before taking magnesium supplements.
Close-up of a man with a headache, clutching his temples. (Image: Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images)
Properties and Potential Benefits
Magnesium is a mineral that plays a vital role in several physiologic processes including energy production, immunity and nerve function. It also helps to regulate blood pressure and is sometimes used to help treat diabetes, cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis.The University of Maryland Medical Center notes that people who suffer from migraine-type headaches often have lower levels of magnesium than those who don't get headaches. Magnesium might also help to reduce headache frequency.
Effectiveness
An article published in the March 2011 issue of "Headache" notes there is a growing body of evidence to support the use of magnesium as a treatment for headache disorders. Most studies have evaluated the effects of magnesium on migraine-type headaches, rather than general tension-type headaches. However, the results of a study published in the June 2007 issue of "Neurological Sciences" show that magnesium reduced the number of headache days by 69.9 percent in children and and adolescents with tension-type headache.
Sources and Administration
Dietary sources of magnesium include brown rice, lentils, peanut butter, kidney beans, spinach, oatmeal and halibut. It is also available as a dietary supplement. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, 200 mg to 600 mg daily is sometimes used to help prevent migraine headaches. Since this is a general guideline, consult your doctor before using this dosage and read the supplement label carefully.
Safety Considerations
Do not take more than 350 mg of magnesium daily -- which is the tolerable upper intake level for adults -- unless your doctor tells you to. Taking large doses of magnesium may cause side effects including abdominal cramping and diarrhea, and may cause magnesium toxicity, symptoms of which include appetite loss, muscle weakness, very low blood pressure and irregular heartbeat. The Office of Dietary Supplements notes that magnesium may interact with, or heighten the effect of, other medicines, including antibiotics and thiazide diuretics.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Office of Dietary Supplements: Magnesium
University of Maryland Medical Center: Migraine Headache
"Headache"; Alternative Headache Treatments: Nutraceuticals, Behavioral and Physical Treatments; C. Sun-Edelstein and A. Mauskop; March 2011
"Neurological Sciences"; Magnesium as a Preventive Treatment for Paediatric Episodic Tension-Type Headache: Results at 1-year Follow-Up; L. Grazzi, et al.; June 2007
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
The Magnesium Dosage for Headaches
2
Vitamin B & Magnesium for Migraines
3
Benefits of Magnesium Potassium Aspartate
4
What Is Magnesium Aspartate?
5
Magnesium for Muscle & Joint Aches
6
Magnesium & Tension Headaches
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.