PhysicianOne Urgent Care Shares Four Tips to Avoid Tick Bites for Memorial Day Weekend
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
PRWeb
Home
News Center
Blog
Login Create a free account
Front Page
Arts
Business
Education
Environment
Government
Industry
Lifestyle
Sports
Tech
More
Industry
Lifestyle
Sports
Tech
Automotive
Communiques
Computer
Events
Health
Home and Family
Legal / Law
Media
Miscellaneous
Opinion / Editorial
Podcasting
Science
Society
RSS Email Newsletters Put PRWeb on your site
PhysicianOne Urgent Care Shares Four Tips to Avoid Tick Bites for Memorial Day Weekend
Share Article
PhysicianOne Urgent Care offers advice on how to avoid getting tick bites this tick season.
(PRWEB) May 24, 2016
PhysicianOne Urgent Care, advocators in helping their patients lead the healthiest lives possible, updates patients on the dangers of tick bites and how to avoid being bitten this spring.
The official tick season kicks off in May across the states of Connecticut and New York.
Ticks, small spider-like insects, are known for attaching themselves to their prey while they feed off their blood. Like other similar biting insects, the tick replaces the victim’s blood with their saliva. While most ticks do not carry serious disease, the species has been linked to Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Colorado Tick Fever, and even tick paralysis.
Typical reactions kick in within one to three days following the bite and can include high fever, body aches, and other flu-like symptoms. A rash or sore at the bite site can also denote a possible infection.
Simple education and adherence to best practices can help avoid tick bites. To start, PhysicianOne Urgent Care advocates understanding the environments where ticks thrive. While patients are not likely to be bitten on the beach, they increase their risk by heading into the woods for a hike or in areas with tall grass. Those headed outdoors and into tick-infested areas during the warmer spring and summer months are encouraged to follow the following tips to avoid being bitten:
Wear an insect repellent that is age-appropriate, especially for children
Cover as much of your skin as possible; lightweight, light-colored garments are best
Wear gloves when working with firewood or other lumber
Carefully check clothes, scalp, and pet fur for the presence of ticks after being in danger areas
PhysicianOne Urgent Care advises that, should a patient experience a tick bite, they remove the entire tick immediately. This is most easily done by using tweezers to extract the entire bug. Do not smother the tick in Vaseline, alcohol, or gasoline as myths may say, as this may lead to an increased risk of skin inflammation or further injury. It is also unwise and dangerous to attempt to remove the tick with flame or matches. Once the tick is removed, PhysicianOne Urgent Care advocates placing the tick into a small resealable storage bag and freezing it in case future tests or identification is needed. Patients should also wash their hands well after removing the tick.
For support during tick season, PhysicianOne Urgent Care offers tick removal, on-site lab services, and rash assessment at all locations. For the location nearest you, visit http://www.PhysicianOneUrgentCare.com.
About PhysicianOne Urgent Care
Established in 2008, PhysicianOne Urgent Care was the first in the market to be accredited and certified by the Urgent Care Association of America. PhysicianOne Urgent Care takes great pride in helping make families lives a bit easier. PhysicianOne Urgent Care’s high quality medical care is a cost effective alternative to the Emergency Room as well as a convenient alternative to primary care physicians during off or peak hours. PhysicianOne Urgent Care provides walk-in treatment for a wide array of illnesses and injuries. On-site services include x-ray, wound stitching, and lab services.
All locations are open 365 days a year. Experienced providers are on-site at all times. Most insurances are accepted. For more information, please visit http://www.PhysicianOneUrgentCare.com.
Share article on social media or email:
View article via:
Pdf Print
Contact Author
Alyssa Tiberio
PhysicianOne Urgent Care
+1 3126907120
Email >
Visit website
News Center
PRWeb
Questions about a news article you've read?
Reach out to the author: contact and available social following information is listed in the top-right of all news releases.
Questions about your PRWeb account or interested in learning more about our news services?
Call PRWeb:1-866-640-6397
PRWeb home
Why PRWeb
How It Works
Who Uses It
Pricing
Learning
Blog
About Cision
Contact Us
Partners
Subscribe to News
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Copyright
Site Map
Create a free prweb account
©Copyright 1997-2015, Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC. Vocus, PRWeb, and Publicity Wire are trademarks or registered trademarks of Vocus, Inc. or Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC.