How long is the treatment with Dupixent?
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Q & A
Questions
How long is the treatment...
How long is the treatment with Dupixent?
Asked
20 Oct 2017 by funkypants
Updated
4 February 2018
Topics
atopic dermatitis, eczema, doctor, treatment, dupixent
Details:
It likely depends on the person, but I'm wondering, have any of your doctors indicated the anticipated length of treatment with Dupixent? Is it every 2 weeks for the rest of your life, or will you possibly be able to come off of it at some point? And do the side effect subside with longer use?
Answer this question
Responses (2)
LA
LadyO760 17 Dec 2017
I am on my 4th shot of dupixent I ask my dermatologist The same thing and she pretty much said it's for the rest of your life but you're more than welcome to come off of it and they're not sure if your eczema will get worse or not
SU
suzanne66 5 Feb 2018
Dupixent (dupilumab) injections treat moderate-to-severe eczema in patients whose condition is not controlled by topical treatments. Dupixent belongs to a group of drugs called biologics and is made from proteins derived from human DNA and administered by injection under the skin. It reduces symptoms of eczema such as itching, redness, lichenification (thickened skin), swelling, and scratched skin.
It is recommended that you keep taking your shots if want your skin to remain clear. If you stop the biologic your eczema will probably come back slowly. Because this is a relatively new drug there is limited data about long term safety but researchers are confident of its use.
Commonly reported side effects of dupilumab include: allergic conjunctivitis, conjunctivitis, injection site reaction, ophthalmic inflammation, and eye irritation.
Some side effects of dupilumab may occur that usually do not need medical attention. These side effects may go away during treatment as your body adjusts to the medicine.
Check with your health care professional if any side effects continue or are bothersome or if you have any questions about them.
https://www.drugs.com/mtm/dupilumab.html
Further Information
Dupixent Information for Consumers
Dupixent Information for Healthcare Professionals (includes dosage details)
Side Effects of Dupixent (detailed)
Search for questions
Still looking for answers? Try searching for what you seek or ask your own question.
Search
Similar Questions
If Prednisone inhibits or slows healing, why do I heal so well when taking it?
Updated 1 Apr 2012 • 2 answers
Dupixent - Side Effects hurting your quality of life?
Updated 28 Sep 2018 • 2 answers
Dupixent - How long after your loading dose did you see noticeable results?
Posted 15 Nov 2018 • 0 answers
Has anyone taken Dupixent a day early?
Posted 31 Mar 2019 • 0 answers
I am a new Dupixent user having been a low level eczema sufferer for many years, which was...
Posted 12 days ago • 0 answers
Sign In or Register
Support Groups
Top 100 groups
Groups by medication
Groups by condition
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.