Copper: Benefits, Side Effects, Dosage, and Interactions
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
The Health Benefits of Copper
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Holistic Health
Supplements
Herbal Medicine
Aromatherapy & Essential Oils
Massage Therapy
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Holistic Health Supplements
The Health Benefits of Copper
Benefits, Side Effects, Dosage, and Interactions
Print
By Lana Barhum | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated February 08, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
Health Benefits Possible Side Effects Dosage and Preparation
What to Look For Other Questions
View All
Back To Top
More in Holistic Health
Supplements
Herbal Medicine
Aromatherapy & Essential Oils
Massage Therapy
There are many health benefits of copper. It is an essential element for bone strength, heart health, immune health and much more. Copper deficiency can lead to iron deficiency, and problems with nervous and immune system functions. Too much or too little copper can affect how brain functions work and have been linked to neurological diseases and Wilson’s disease (condition in which too much copper forms in the organs).
Illustration by Brianna Gilmartin, Verywell
What Is Wilson's Disease?
Health Benefits
Copper plays an important role in maintaining a healthy body and has a variety of health benefits.
Anti-Inflammatory Properties
Studies on animals have suggested that maintaining copper levels in the body may delay or even prevent arthritis. This is why some people wear copper gloves, bracelets, and other accessories made of copper. However, studies conducted in volunteers with arthritis have shown no benefit from wearing copper jewelry.
Antioxidant Properties
Research studies have found that copper has antioxidant properties. Since copper contains antioxidants, it may reduce the production of free radicals. Free radicals are known for damaging cells and causing diseases, especially cancer.
Improves Cardiovascular Health
There has been evidence linking high blood pressure and cholesterol to low levels of copper. One study published in the European Heart Journal suggests some patients with heart failure can benefit from adding copper supplements to their diets. Other studies in animals have found a connection between low copper and cardiovascular disease. However, it unknown whether low copper has the same effect on humans.
Boosts Immune Health
Cooper deficiency and low copper intake have been shown to reduce the number of white blood cells in the body, causing a condition called neutropenia. Having a low white blood cell count can make a person more vulnerable to infection. Maintaining copper levels in the body may help with the production and support of white blood cells and in keeping the body healthy.
Protects Bone Density
Severe copper deficiency has been linked to a greater risk of osteoporosis, osteopenia, and decreases in bone density. Osteoporosis is a condition that weakens bones and makes them susceptible to fractures. Osteopenia causes bone mineral density to be lower than it should be, and it is considered a precursor to osteoporosis.
More research needs to be done to determine whether low levels of copper alone may affect bone health and if copper supplements may actually prevent osteoporosis and manage its effects.
Assists in Collagen Production
Since copper has antioxidant properties, researchers think it may help prevent skin aging. Sufficient levels of copper help the body to replace damaged connective tissues and the collagen needed to hold bones together. (Collagen is the main structural competent in the space between the connective tissues and bones.) Insufficient collagen levels may lead to joint dysfunction and the breakdown of connective tissues.
Promotes Brain Health
Copper is involved in neurological processes and growth, and it is important for cognitive function. But too much copper can be negative, causing cognitive decline. Researchers from Berkeley recently found that when high amounts of copper enter cells, neuron signaling is reduced—when copper levels fell, signals resumed correctly.
Possible Side Effects
Copper supplements may interact with certain medications and cause an imbalance of either reduced levels or increased levels. Some medications may interact adversely with copper. These include:
hormone therapies and birth control pills.
non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen.
allopurinol, a gout medication.
penicillamine, a medication used to reduce copper levels in people with Wilson's disease.
zinc supplements.
medications for treating gastric ulcers and gastric reflux disease.
Copper toxicity is rare, but can be identified by several symptoms.
Symptoms of Copper Toxicity
Gastrointestinal effects (stomach pains, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea)
Headache
Dizziness
Weakness
Metallic taste in the mouth
More serious symptoms of copper toxicity may include:
cirrhosis.
jaundice.
heart problems.
red blood cell abnormalities.
Dosage and Preparation
The Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion’s Dietary Guidelines recommend around 900 micrograms (mcg) of copper daily for most adults and children. Anything more can be toxic.
In the United States and most developed countries, copper deficiency and toxicity are both rare.
What to Look For
Most people can get all the copper they need simply from their diets. Good dietary sources of copper come from foods such as:
shellfish (clams, oyster, lobsters, crab, shrimp).
whole grains.
dark leafy greens.
dried fruit.
organ meats, such as liver and kidneys.
nuts, including cashews and almonds.
Other Questions
Should I take a copper supplement?
While supplements can be an option to put needed copper into the body, the best method is to try to get copper through food sources—this reduces the risk of imbalances and toxicity. Due to the rarity of copper deficiency, doctors rarely prescribe copper supplements. Most multivitamins contain less than 2 milligrams (mg) of copper, which is considered a safe dose. Speak with your doctor before taking any copper supplements.
Could there be side effects or risks of consuming dietary copper?
There are no risks or side effects reported with dietary consumption of copper. The only time a person would experience a problem would be due to excessive levels of copper in drinking water, exposure to high levels of copper through chemicals, or excessive use of supplements.
A Word From Verywell
Copper deficiency in the United States and most developed countries is rare, especially when a person follows a balanced diet. In fact, most people can get all the copper they need through diet. If a person’s copper levels are low, a doctor can recommend a copper supplement and/or look for any underlying conditions. Anyone thinking about a copper supplement should first check with a doctor.
Using Copper Hands Gloves to Help With Arthritis Pain
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
When used safely and carefully, many alternative treatments can make a wonderful addition to your health. Sign up to learn more about popular uses of holistic health and how to properly approach alternative treatments.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Fusco D., Colloca G, Lo Monaco, MR, et al. Effects of antioxidant supplementation on the aging process. Clin Interv Aging. 2007 Sep; 2(3): 377–387.
Hatori Y, Lutsen S. An Expanding Range of Functions for the Copper Chaperone/Antioxidant Protein Atox1. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2013 Sep 20; 19(9): 945–957. DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.5086
Klevay LM. Heart failure improvement from a supplement containing copper, European Heart Journal (2006). 27(1): 117. DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehi634
Lazarchick J. Update on anemia and neutropenia in copper deficiency. Curr Opin Hematol. 2012 Jan; 19(1):58-60. DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e32834da9d2
Medline Plus. Copper in Diet.
Richmond SJ, Gunadasa S, Bland M, MacPherson H. Copper Bracelets and Magnetic Wrist Straps for Rheumatoid Arthritis – Analgesic and Anti-Inflammatory Effects: A Randomised Double-Blind Placebo Controlled Crossover Trial. PLOS ONE. 2013. 8(9): e71529. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071529
Roshan-Mahdavi M, Ebrahimi M., Ebrahimi A. Copper, magnesium, zinc and calcium status in osteopenic and osteoporotic post-menopausal women. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2015 Jan-Apr; 12(1): 18–21. DOI: 10.11138/ccmbm/2015.12.1.018
Sheigber IF, Mercer JFB, Dringen R. Metabolism and functions of copper in brain. Progress in Neurobiology. 2014. 116: 33-57. DOI: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2014.01.002
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and U.S. Department of Agriculture. 2015 – 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
Continue Reading
Article
The Health Benefits of Iron
Article
Find Out the Health Benefits of Niacinamide
Article
The Health Benefits of Calcium
Article
The Health Benefits of Phenylalanine
Article
Can Osha Root Really Treat Cold, Flu, and Sore Throat?
Article
Find Out How Fluoride Protects Your Dental Health
Article
Does Sarsaparilla Kill Cancer?
Article
Should You Take Chaparral Supplements?
Article
The Health Benefits of Magnesium Oxide
Article
The Health Benefits of Roman Chamomile
Article
Iodine: How It Affects Your Health
Article
Can Cinnamon Essential Oil Enhance Your Health?
Article
The Health Benefits of DHEA Supplements
Article
The Benefits of Caprylic Acid
Article
Benefits and Uses of L-Arginine
Article
Is Greater Celandine an All-Natural Cancer-Fighter?
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more