Hip Exercises As Osteoarthritis Treatment | EmaxHealth
Skip to main content
EmaxHealth
Health News
Medical Press Releases
Book Reviews
Health Gadgets
SEARCH
Home / Disease and Condition / Arthritis Pain Treatment
Hip Exercises As Osteoarthritis Treatment
By Ruzanna Harutyunyan G+ Jul 17 2009 - 12:02pm
Advertisement
Researchers at Rush University Medical Center are testing a novel regimen of hip-muscle exercises to decrease the load on the knee joints in patients with osteoarthritis. The goal is not only to relieve pain but also, possibly, to halt progression of the disease.
“Each time you take a step, a load, or force, is placed on the knee joints. How much load depends not just on your weight, but also on the way you walk and the alignment of your leg,” said Laura Thorp, PhD, assistant professor of anatomy and cell biology at Rush Medical College and principal investigator for the study. “If we can appropriately alter the gait patterns of patients with osteoarthritis, we can minimize the load and relieve pain.
“Ultimately, we’re hoping we can prevent the disease from advancing. No treatment currently exists that can stop osteoarthritis from progressing in the knees, other than joint replacement surgery.”
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis and a significant source of disability and impaired quality of life. A higher-than-normal load on the knees during walking is a hallmark of the disease, associated with both the severity of the osteoarthritis and its progression, according to Thorp.
Thorp is enrolling patients with mild to moderate osteoarthritis in their knees in a research study to determine the effectiveness of certain hip exercises in treating the disease. Study participants have their knees x-rayed and undergo an initial assessment in Rush’s Human Motion Laboratory to measure the load on their knee joints while walking. Participants then follow a specific regimen of hip exercises for four weeks under the direction of Charles Cranny, clinical manager of outpatient physical therapy.
Advertisement
The exercises focus on strengthening the hip abductor muscles, such as the gluteus medius, a broad, thick, radiating muscle that helps to stabilize the pelvis during ambulation. In patients with osteoarthritis in the knees, these muscles tend to be weak, causing the pelvis to tilt toward the side of the swing leg when walking, instead of remaining level with the ground, which increases the load on the knee joints. Strengthening these muscles helps the pelvis and the knee remain in better alignment, and thereby lessens the load.
After the four weeks of supervised physical therapy, participants are reassessed to determine whether the load on the knees has decreased, and whether the pain has subsided.
The trial continues for another four weeks, with patients exercising at home to determine whether the adjustments in gait can be maintained.
According to Thorp, exercise regimens to date have focused largely on strengthening the quadriceps and hamstring muscles, which stabilize the knee joint but likely do little to correct alignment with the rest of the leg or alter the load on the joint.
Preliminary evidence in the present trial has already shown that a decrease in load is attained with hip-muscle exercises.
“By lessening the load on the knees, we can remove one of the major known risk factors for the progression of osteoarthritis,” Thorp said.
Arthritis Pain Treatment
Advertisement
Please, click to subscribe to our Youtube Channel to be notified about upcoming health and food tips.
Your name *
E-mail *
The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.
Comment *
Notify me when new comments are posted
All comments
Replies to my comment
Leave this field blank
Related Terms
Options for treatment of Osteoarthritis-Knees
Why Boscumin Is the Best Turmeric Supplement Available on the Market Today
Top 10 Health Benefits of Fulvic Acid: Learn the Healing Secrets of Nature’s Miracle Molecule
Why The New Salonpas Pain Relief Patch LARGE Is Bigger and Better
How the X4 Smart Brace from DonJoy Revolutionizes Patient-Physician Communication After Knee Replacement Surgery
cDMARD Arthritis Drug Shows Strong Effect Halving Dementia Risk
How Desert Harvest’s Aloe Vera Supplement Relieved 92% of Interstitial Cystitis Symptoms
Health Topics
Acne Colon Cancer Menopause
ADHD Dental Mental
Aging Depression Mesothelioma
Alcohol Addiction Diabetes Migraine
Allergy Diet Nutrition
Alternative Exercise Obesity
Alzheimer's Disease Flu Ovarian Cancer
Arthritis Food Pets
Asthma Hair Loss Pregnancy
Autism Heart Prostate
Back Pain Herbal Remedies Skin Cancer
Beauty Celiac & GF Skin Care
Blood Pressure Impotence Sleep Disorders
Breast Cancer Insurance Smoking
Cervical Cancer Liver Cancer Stress Relief
Cholesterol Lung Cancer Stroke
Coffee Men's Health Women's Health
Archive | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | About Us
Editorial Review Process | Advertise | Contact | Contributors | Republish EmaxHealth Stories
EmaxHealth is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
eMaxHealth is HONCode Certified 05/2017