17 Natural Remedies for Rheumatoid Arthritis Pain Relief
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatments Home
Medical Reference
Features
Slideshows & Images
News Archive
Rheumatoid Arthritis Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Rheumatologist
Medications
Rheumatoid Arthritis Guide
Overview
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
Living With RA
Complications of RA
Related to Rheumatoid Arthritis
Arthritis
Assess Your RA
Biologic Drugs for RA
Psoriatic Arthritis
Fibromyalgia
Lupus
Lyme Disease
Pain Management
More About RA
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Guide
Test Your RA Knowledge
Natural Remedies for Rheumatoid Arthritis Pain Relief
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Heat and Cold
Magnets
Acupuncture
Aromatherapy
Biofeedback
Deep Breathing
Exercise
Massage
Meditation
Progressive Muscle Relaxation
Tai Chi
Thunder God Vine
Topical Creams, Gels, and Patches
Turmeric
Visualization
Yoga
A Warning About Supplements
You’ll need to keep up with your usual medical care, but some natural remedies might help relieve pain and stiffness from rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Many of them are simple, like using heat and ice packs. Others, like acupuncture, need a trained pro.
If you want to try natural and home remedies, ask your doctor what would be most helpful for you and if there are any limits on what’s OK for you to try. If he gives you the go-ahead, you might want to look into some of these common treatments:
Heat and Cold
Many doctors recommend heat and cold treatments to ease rheumatoid arthritis symptoms. Each offers different benefits:
Cold: It curbs joint swelling and inflammation. Apply an ice pack to the affected joint during an RA flare-up, for instance. Just don't overdo it. Apply the cold compress for 15 minutes at a time. Take at least a 30-minute break between treatments.
Heat: It relaxes your muscles and spurs blood flow. You can use a moist heating pad or a warm, damp towel. Many people like using microwaveable hot packs. Don't go too hot. Your skin shouldn’t burn. You can also use heat therapy in the shower. Let the warm water hit the painful area on your body. That may help soothe it. A hot tub is another good way to relax stiff muscles. Just don’t use hot tubs or spas if you have high blood pressure, heart disease, or are pregnant.
Magnets
Magnet therapies come in a variety of forms, such as bracelets, necklaces, inserts, pads, or disks. You can find them at most natural food stores.
Most research on magnets involves people with osteoarthritis, the wear-and-tear type of arthritis linked to aging, not RA.
In people with knee and hip osteoarthritis, some early studies have shown they improved joint pain better than a placebo. Doctors don’t know exactly how magnets might relieve pain, and there’s no clear proof that they actually help people with rheumatoid arthritis.
Acupuncture
This traditional form of Chinese medicine is one of the oldest natural pain remedies around. It uses super-fine needles to stimulate energy along pathways in your body called meridians. The goal is to correct imbalances of energy, or qi (pronounced “chee”). There isn’t a lot of research specific to RA, although studies do show it lowers levels of chemicals in your body linked to inflammation. It also helps with chronic pain, especially back pain. It may also help with osteoarthritis.
Since it involves needles that need to be clean and properly placed, ask your rheumatologist to recommend a practitioner who works with people that have RA.
Continued
Aromatherapy
This natural treatment doesn’t appear to affect pain levels or chemicals that cause inflammation. But it might boost your mood. One small study found lemon scent might boost your mood, but that’s about it. Essential oils can be a nice addition to a massage. Be careful if you apply them to your skin or let someone else do it. Some are known irritants. Try a test patch to see how you react. Don’t use it on broken or damaged skin.
Biofeedback
This technique helps you learn to control automatic responses such as heart rate and blood pressure. You do it with sensors on your body, which send information to a monitor. A therapist teaches you how to control your reaction to stresses.
Deep Breathing
Take slow breaths from your belly. It can calm you and turn off the stress receptors that tighten your muscles and make pain worse. Plus, when you focus on your breathing, you take your brain away from thoughts about pain.
Exercise
You may not feel like moving, but it’s good for you. It won’t make your RA worse, and it could lower the swelling in your joints and help ease your pain. Talk to your doctor or a physical therapist before you get started. They can help create the right program for you. It’ll probably focus on:
Aerobics, like walking or swimming, to get your heart moving
Strength training, to keep the muscles around your joints strong
Range-of-motion exercises to help your joints move like they should
Balance moves to help you avoid stumbles and falls
Massage
This natural remedy dates back thousands of years. But modern science does show it can help ease pain. There are many different types. You’ll want to talk to your doctor before you try it. You can also ask for recommendations. It’s good to get a massage therapist who’s worked with people that have RA. Let him know if you have any sore spots he needs to avoid. You can also ask him not to use scented products that could irritate your skin.
Continued
Meditation
This technique can be as simple as focusing on your breathing and just noticing each inhale and exhale. It doesn’t require any spiritual beliefs, and it isn’t about being super-calm. Anyone can do it, and only a few minutes can make a difference. Your mind will almost certainly wander. That’s OK. Just return your attention to your breath, or whatever else you choose to focus on.
Progressive Muscle Relaxation
To do this:
Tighten and then relax the muscles in different parts of your body.
Work your way down the body, starting with your face muscles, followed by your neck, arms, chest, back, belly, legs, and feet. Or work your way up from your feet.
Breathe in as you contract your muscles.
Breathe out when you let go.
Tai Chi
This slow, gentle martial art is easy on your joints. You’ll stand and do a series of gentle movements that are easy to modify if your joints are sore. It can help with strength, flexibility, and balance. There isn’t enough research to know if it works to curb RA pain, but it may be something to try.
Thunder God Vine
A few studies have shown a drop in inflammation and tender joints in people with RA who take this supplement. A large government-funded study that compared this root with sulfasalazine, a traditional drug used to treat RA, found that symptoms improved more with the use of thunder god vine. Side effects may include stomach upset, headache, hair loss, upper respiratory tract infections, and sterility in men. Pregnant women and women at risk of getting osteoporosis should not take it.
Keep in mind that it’s hard to get safe and high-quality thunder god vine made in the U.S. The safety and effectiveness of thunder god vine from outside the U.S., such as from China, can't be verified according to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.
Topical Creams, Gels, and Patches
You might not think of a pain rub as a natural remedy, but many of these products are made from capsaicin, the ingredient that makes chili peppers hot. Studies show it can help ease RA pain. Don’t use it along with a heating pad. It makes burns more likely.
Continued
Turmeric
This golden spice found in many curries is a member of the ginger family. It hails from India and Indonesia and has been a staple in traditional medicine in that part of the world for centuries. Research shows it blocks proteins that cause inflammation and may ease pain as well as some nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) commonly used to treat RA.
Visualization
This can help reduce stress and pain. To try this simple exercise:
Close your eyes.
Breathe deeply.
Picture yourself in a quiet, peaceful place.
Yoga
This mix of low-impact exercise, breathing, and meditation was developed in India some 5,000 years ago. It’s good for your body and mind. It can ease joint pain, improve your flexibility, and zap stress and tension. Studies show it can lower chemicals that cause inflammation and stress. Just talk to your doctor to make sure it’s OK for you before you dive in. Work with them to find an instructor that knows how to handle people with RA.
A Warning About Supplements
A few RA studies show that certain supplements and natural remedies can help. But the research is still in its early stages, so the bottom line isn’t clear yet.
Keep in mind that supplements can affect other medications. Tell your doctor about anything you take, even if it’s natural, so he can check that it’s safe for you.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Nayana Ambardekar, MD on April 3, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
NCCAM: "Rheumatoid Arthritis and Complementary and Alternative Medicine;" "The Use of Magnets for Pain" and "Thunder God Vine."
Session 3: Joint Nutrition Society and Irish Nutrition and Dietetic Institute Symposium on "Nutrition and autoimmune disease" PUFA, inflammatory processes and rheumatoid arthritis.
Arthritis Today: "Supplement Guide."
Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database: "Rheumatoid Arthritis."
Sales, D. Reumatismo, July-September 2008.
Arthritis Foundation: “Benefits of Massage,” “Can Acupuncture Help Relieve RA?” “How Breathing Exercises Can Help,” ‘Supplement Guide: Capsaicin,” “Turmeric,” “Yoga Benefits for Arthritis.”
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health: “Aromatherapy May Make Good Scents, But Does It Work?” “Massage Therapy for Health Purposes,”
National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy: “Exploring Aromatherapy.”
Journal of Aging Research: “Benefits of Exercise in Rheumatoid Arthritis.”
Johns Hopkins Arthritis Center: “Role of Exercise in Arthritis Management.”
Harvard Health Publishing: “Exercise can ease rheumatoid arthritis pain,” “The health benefits of tai chi.”
Journal of Pain and Symptom Management: “Advances in Rheumatology: Coxibs and Beyond.”
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
What Is Acupuncture and How Does It Work?
Rheumatoid Arthritis Guide
Overview
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
Living With RA
Complications of RA
Top Picks
Treating RA With Biologics
Is Your RA Under Control?
How to Deal With RA Fatigue
Avoid These 6 RA Mistakes
Can Your Diet Help Your RA?
Myths and Facts About RA
further reading
Slideshow: Which Alternative Remedies Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis?
Slideshow: RA Home Remedies -- Busted!
How to Manage Your RA and Get Relief
If I Feel Great, Can I Go Off My RA Medication?
Can I Use Complementary Medicine for Rheumatoid Arthritis?
What’s New In RA Treatment?
Tips to Ease RA Flare
Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatments Topics
Today on WebMD
Have RA?
Avoid these 6 common mistakes.
Joint-Friendly Exercises
Decrease pain, increase energy.
RA Myths and Facts
How much do you know?
Are Your Symptoms RA?
Swelling, fatigue, pain, and more.
Recommended for You
Slideshow
Natural Remedies for RA
Article
10 RA Symptoms Never to Ignore
Article
RA Treatment: DMARDs, NSAIDs, and More
Quiz
RA Myths and Facts
Video
How Exercise Can Help RA Symptoms
Slideshow
18 Tips for Healthier Joints
Slideshow
When a Loved One Has RA
Article
Common Types of Arthitis
Tools & Resources
RA Symptoms, Causes, and More
Simple Definitions for Common RA Terms
Why Are My Joints So Stiff?
Is Your RA Progressing?
Joint-Friendly Workouts
Lyme Disease Symptoms
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.