Home Remedies For Throat Obstruction | Speedy Remedies
All Home Remedies
Amazing Tips
Beauty Care
How to Get Rid Of..
Health & Diet
Herbs That Cure
Common Cures
Home Remedies by SpeedyRemedies
Home Remedies for Various Diseases & Conditions
You are here: Home / Home Remedies / Home Remedies For Throat Obstruction
Home Remedies For Throat Obstruction
March 16, 2010 2 Comments
What is Throat Obstruction?
Obstruction in the throat usually takes place when a foreign object becomes lodged in the throat. The problem might not seem serious in the beginning. But, if Throat Obstruction is not taken care of at the right time then it tends to become troublesome by further obstructing the air passageway thereby giving rise to breathing problems.
The process of swallowing takes place in three phases. They are the mouth phase, the throat phase and the esophageal phase. Throat Obstruction is generally the result of a problem in this normal swallowing process. The condition is also referred to as Dysphagia. Dysphagia can be of two types, namely, Esophageal Dysphagia (originating in the Esophagus) and Oropharyngeal Dysphagia (before reaching the Esophagus).
In order to prevent Throat Obstruction, individuals should chew the food properly before swallowing it. Kids should be checked from swallowing inedible play objects as they ultimately get stuck halfway through the throat. Plus, a number of natural home remedies for Throat Obstruction can also be adopted for quick relief.
Causes and Symptoms of Throat Obstruction
Inadequate chewing or careless swallowing of the food is one of the most common causes of Throat Obstruction. Other factors that tend to increase the risk of developing this ailment are vocal cord problems, Tracheomalacia, Epiglottitis, Croup, thyroid enlargement, allergic reactions, chemical reactions, trauma etc.
Besides, the presence of Throat Cancer may also cause Throat Obstruction. At times, throat infections may give rise to Retropharyngeal Abscess, which is simply a collection of pus at the back of the throat. This in turn increases the chances of obstructed upper airways.
Similarly, Peritonsillar Abscess, a complication of tonsillitis may also result in the same. A condition called Pharyngeal Diverticula may also be held responsible for choking as it causes swallowing problems by forming a small pouch-like structure just above the esophagus and collecting food particles in it.
The most common symptom of Throat Obstruction is choking. It may be accompanied by wheezing sounds during breathing. Other symptoms include drooling, vomiting, painful swallowing, inability to speak, gasping of air, unconsciousness, confusion, irritability and other related symptoms.
Advertisement
The airway obstruction leading to breathing difficulty may result in Cyanosis. Cyanosis refers to a condition characterized by face turning bluish or purple in color due to lack of oxygen.
Natural Home Remedies for Throat Obstruction
• Swallowing a chunk of break or boiled rice is regarded as one of the best Throat Obstruction home remedies. These ingredients tend to stick to the object thereby putting additional weight and pressure which in turn helps in pushing the object further down up to the stomach.
• Another popular home remedy used to cure Throat Obstruction is by using a raw egg. Simply crack a raw egg in a cup and gulp it down the throat in one go to relieve choking.
• A decoction prepared from root of clematis is one of the most popular and equally effective natural home remedies for Throat Obstruction. For this, natural remedy to give encouraging results, also add some brown sugar and vinegar in the decoction. Take this warm therapeutic decoction two to three times every half an hour to soften the source of obstruction.
• Gargling with vinegar is one of the most successful natural home remedies for Throat Obstruction caused by large pieces of bone, especially chicken bone. Vinegar helps to soften the bone thereby making it small in size and easily to swallow. A lump of boiled and mashed potatoes can also be taken after vinegar gargle to facilitate this Throat Obstruction home treatment.
• Depending on the severity of the condition, Heimlich maneuver can be performed to get rid of Throat Obstruction. Finger swipe method can be used in case the object causing obstruction is visible.
Diet for Throat Obstruction
When dealing with throat Obstruction, try to sip water slowly to facilitate the process of swallowing. Plus, include more liquid items in the diet and avoid hard foods until the problem goes away. Mashed bananas and papayas are also good natural remdies as they are soft and do not encourage further throat injury. Besides, avoid eating mindlessly in a hurry in order to avoid Throat Obstruction.
Be careful while eating meat foods and avoid choking on chicken bone, fish bone etc. Habits of having alcohol when eating food or talking while eating should be strictly given up. Therefore, this problem can be healed provided Throat Obstruction home remedies are followed immediately and coupled with the requisite dietary measures.
Share
0
Share
0
Share
0
Share
0
Comments
bob says
July 14, 2010 at 8:39 am
I had a throat obstruction once, and unfortunately, i died. I am currently in heaven to tell you that when you are choking, dont grab a jar of vinegar and start chugging it. it will not work. trust me. i’m dead. it’s better just to sit there and die.
Reply
keith says
June 9, 2013 at 5:02 pm
As a CPR instructor I understand choking. What I had was chicken stuck in my throat but not affecting my breathing. The vinegar worked but it took a while.
Reply
Speak Your Mind Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Categories
Amazing Tips
Beauty Care
Common Cures
Health & Diet
Herbs That Cure
Home Remedies
Homemade Products
How To Get Rid Of..
Nutrition Info
How to Enhance Brain Development in Children
How to Manage Side Effects of Chemotherapy
10 Food Items You Should Never Combine
10 Children’s Health Symptoms You Shouldn’t Ignore
How to Make your Own Natural First Aid Kit
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2013 Speedy Remedies. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Contact Us