Ankle Surgery at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation
Skip Navigation
Display Mode:
Choose Default Style
Choose High Contrast
Orthopedics Home
PAMF Home
Search site
Search
Home
Our Team
Services Offered
Why Choose Us
Locations
Services Offered
Ankle Surgery
Back & Spine Treatments
Elbow Surgery
Foot Surgery
Hand and Wrist Surgery
Hip Treatments
Knee Treatments
Orthopedics Medicine
Pediatric Orthopedics
Shoulder Treatments
Sports Medicine
Main content
Ankle Surgery
Get Started
Doctors:
Andrew Haskell
(Palo Alto, San Carlos)
Foot & Ankle Surgery Reconstruction,
Ankle replacement, Sports related
injuries of the Foot and Ankle, Lower
extremity trauma and deformity
correction
Todd S. Kim (Burlingame)
Foot & Ankle Surgery Reconstruction,
Ankle replacement, Sports related
injuries of the Foot and Ankle, Lower
extremity trauma and deformity
correction
Brandon Lindberg, DPM
(Santa Cruz)
Ankle joint replacement, ankle
reconstructive surgery, foot and
ankle fractures, sports related
injuries of the foot and ankle, lower
extremity trauma and deformity correction.
Amol Saxena (Palo Alto)
Foot & Ankle Surgery Reconstruction,
Sports related injuries of the Foot
and Ankle
Akira Yamamoto
(Mountain View, Los Gatos)
Lower extremity, trauma and
deformity correction
Foot and ankle problems have a wide range of causes. Most foot and ankle problems stem from wear and tear over the course of our lives. But they may also arise from diseases such as diabetes, nervous system disorders or congenital defects, or from sudden injuries, sports injuries, or fractures.
We offer fellowship-trained foot and ankle surgeons who are skilled in a wide range of treatment options. When surgery is needed for your ankle or foot problem, PAMF is the place to come. Our specialists employ the latest surgical techniques to correct persistent ankle and foot problems, including fusion, ankle replacement, ligament repair, cartilage regeneration, foot realignment procedures and more.
Achilles Tendon Problems
Your Achilles tendon connects your calf muscle to the heel bone, and problems typically occur in athletic people between 30 and 50. Achilles tendinitis is inflammation of the tendon. Achilles tendinosis refers to tiny tears in the tendon. These problems often heal naturally with rest, stretching exercises and pain medication. The Achilles tendon can also tear or rupture, which may require a brace or cast to keep your foot immobile while it heals. The doctor may also recommend surgery to reattach the torn ends of the tendon.
Ankle and Foot Arthritis
Arthritis can wear down the cartilage that lines joints in your ankle, hindfoot or midfoot, causing pain, stiffness, swelling and difficulty walking. Early arthritis is treated with pain medication, ice, rest and physical therapy. When your arthritis interferes with your ability to go about your normal activities, the doctor may recommend surgery. Surgery can range from a total ankle replacement or fusion to ankle distraction or joint debridement to remove painful bone spurs and inflamed tissue.
Fracture Care
Some ankle and foot fractures heal easily in a cast or functional brace, while others require surgery. During surgery the broken bones are repositioned and held in place by metal pins or screws. Our specialists are experts at diagnosing which fractures require more than just a cast and in putting even complex fractures back together again.
Osteochondral lesions, Cartilage Regeneration and Ankle Arthroscopy
Cartilage is the smooth white tissue that caps the ends of bones and allows your joints to glide smoothly during activity. When the cartilage is injured, painful cysts may form. Joints may grind, catch and swell. Spurs and soft tissue may pinch. Flakes of cartilage or bone may stick and rub in the joint. Many of these problems can be repaired through arthroscopy, a minimally invasive type of surgery that uses very small instruments and a camera inserted through small incisions.
Ligament and Tendon Repair
When you sprain your ankle, the ligaments and/or tendons around your ankle are stretched or torn. This causes swelling, bruising and pain. Most ankle sprains heal with non-surgical treatments, but some lead to chronic pain and ankle instability. Repair or reconstruction of damaged ligaments relieves pain and restores instability.
Back to top
Site Map
Website Feedback
© 2015 Palo Alto Medical Foundation. All rights reserved. Sutter Health is a registered trademark of Sutter Health®, Reg. U.S. Patent. & Trademark office.
Serving communities around Palo Alto, Mountain View, Fremont, San Jose, San Francisco, Oakland, Dublin, San Mateo & Santa Cruz.