Generic Imitrex (Sumatriptan) - Pain Relief -> unipills.com
Universal Medicine Online Store.
Language:
Currency:
English English(UK) Deutsch Français Italiano Español Svenska Português 日本人 Dansk Norsk Suomi Czech
USD - US Dollar	EUR - Euro	GBP - British Pound	CAD - Canadian Dollar	AUD - Australian Dollar	CHF - Swiss Franc	SEK - Swedish Kronor	NOK - Norway Krone	DKK - Denmark Krone	JPY - Japanese Yen	ARS - Argentine Peso	NZD - NZ Dollar	PLN - Polish Zloty	SGD - Singapore Dollar	MXN - Mexican Peso	HUF - Hungarian Forint	CZK - Czech Koruna	BRL - Brazilian Real	ZAR - S. African Rand	MYR - Malaysian Ringgit
Your cart:
$ 0.00
(0 items)
Checkout
HOME
ORDER STATUS
FAQ
CONTACT US
TESTIMONIALS
Search:
Search by name:
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W X Y Z
Categories List
Bestsellers
Allergy
Anti Fungal
Anti Viral
Anti-Depressants
Antibacterial
Antibiotics
Arthritis
Asthma
Birth Control
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cardiovascular
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Diuretics
Erectile Dysfunction
Eye Drop
Gastro Health
General Health
Hair Loss
Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)
Herbals
HIV
Hormones
Men's ED Packs
Men's Health
Mental Illness
Motion Sickness
Muscle Relaxant
Pain Relief
Penis Enlargement
Quit Smoking
Skin Care
Sleeping Aids
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Payment Methods
Shipping Option
Generic Imitrex (Sumatriptan)
Sumatriptan is a drug used for treating migraine attacks.
Package
Price
Per Pills
Savings
Order
25 mg	x 10	pills
$64.99
$6.50
$0.00
Add to cart
25 mg	x 20	pills
$103.99
$5.20
$26.00
Add to cart
25 mg	x 30	pills
$140.99
$4.70
$54.00
Add to cart
25 mg	x 60	pills
$252.99
$4.22
$136.80
Add to cart
25 mg	x 90	pills
$340.99
$3.79
$243.90
Add to cart
25 mg	x 120	pills
$409.99
$3.42
$369.60
Add to cart
Package
Price
Per Pills
Savings
Order
50 mg	x 10	pills
$100.99
$10.10
$0.00
Add to cart
50 mg	x 20	pills
$161.99
$8.10
$40.00
Add to cart
50 mg	x 30	pills
$218.99
$7.30
$84.00
Add to cart
50 mg	x 60	pills
$393.99
$6.57
$211.80
Add to cart
Package
Price
Per Pills
Savings
Order
100 mg	x 10	pills
$106.99
$10.70
$0.00
Add to cart
100 mg	x 20	pills
$191.99
$9.60
$22.00
Add to cart
100 mg	x 30	pills
$258.99
$8.63
$62.10
Add to cart
100 mg	x 60	pills
$465.99
$7.77
$175.80
Add to cart
Product Description
Common use
Sumatriptan is a drug that is used for treating migraine attacks with or without the presence of an aura, to relieve cluster headache attacks. Sumatriptan is a Specific and selective agonist of 5-HT1-serotonin receptors localized mainly in blood vessels of the brain. Migraine headaches are believed to be stipulated by widening of blood vessels in the brain. Sumatriptan causes vasoconstriction of the carotid arterial bed which provides extracranial and intracranial tissues with blood without a significant impact on cerebral blood flow. It also inhibits activity of receptor which are responsible for transmission of pain signals by nerves to the brain.
Dosage and direction
Treatment with Sumatripan should be done just before the starting of a migraine attack. Recommended oral dose of adults is 25-50 mg, the dose maybe increased up to 100 mg if necessary. The medication is effective at any stage of the attack but if it does not help during the attack additional dose should not be taken. Treatment with Sumatriptan should be continued to prevent the next attack. Tablet of Sumatriptan should be swallowed whole, take it with a big glass of water. Usual intranasal dose of 5-20 mg may be increased to the maximum dose of 40 mg daily.
Precautions
Sumatriptan is used only to treat an acute, classic migraine attack or a cluster headache, it should not be used for treatment of certain unusual types of migraine. Patients with uncontrolled high blood pressure should not use Sumatriptan.
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity, basal, ophtalmoplegic, hemiplegic forms of migraine, ischemic heart disease (including suspected it), angina (including angina Printsmetala), myocardial infarction (also in history), hypertension, peripheral arterial occlusive disease, stroke or transient cerebrovascular accident (also in history), liver and kidney failure. Cautiousness should be exercised in patients with epilepsy (including any condition with low epileptic threshold), hypertension, pregnancy, breastfeeding, in infants and adolescents (younger than 18 y.o.), in patients older than 65 y.o.; simultaneous intake of medications which contain ergotamine and its derivatives, MAO inhibitors, and also during the period of 14 days after their cancellation.
Possible side effect
This medication is usually well tolerated and adverse reactions are not expected. Most frequent side effects include pain or tightness in the chest or throat, tingling, flushing, weakness, dizziness, abdominal discomfort, sweating, nasal irritation, and injection site reactions. Allergic reactions as adverse reactions of organism to Sumatriptan are also possible.
Drug interaction
Co-administration with ergotamine and medications containing ergotamin may develop a continued spasm of blood vessels (the interval between administration of these medications must be at least 24 h). Interaction of Sumatriptan and MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), tranylcypromine (Parnate), and procarbazine (Matulane)) is also possible resulting in increased concentration of Sumatriptan. Concomitant use of Sumatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or SSRIs, including fluoxetine (Prozac), citalopram (Celexa), paroxetine (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft) or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, including venlafaxine (Effexor), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and desvenlafaxine (Pristiq) may promote weakness, hyperreflexia and poor coordination of movements.
Missed dose
Sumatriptan is not meant for regular use, it is taken only during an attack.
Overdose
Be especially attentive to such symptoms as bluish tinge to the skin, convulsions, dilated pupils, inactivity, lack of coordination, paralysis, redness in the arms and legs, skin changes at the site of injection, slow breathing, sluggishness, tremor as they may be signs of Sumatriptan overdose. Inform your health care advisor immediately about your condition nor seek for emergency medical help.
Storage
Store this medication at a temperature of 2-30 C (36-86 F) in a tight container resistant to light and moisture.
Disclaimer
We provide only general information about medications which does not cover all directions, possible drug integrations, or precautions. Information at the site cannot be used for self-treatment and self-diagnosis. Any specific instructions for a particular patient should be agreed with your health care adviser or doctor in charge of the case. We disclaim reliability of this information and mistakes it could contain. We are not responsible for any direct, indirect, special or other indirect damage as a result of any use of the information on this site and also for consequences of self-treatment.
Testimonials
Tom, Clearwater
Dear customer support, I finally received my package yesterday. And, all is good. It took its time getting here, but it made it.
Albert, Halmstad, Sweden
Now I have what I had ordered. I know now that you are a company you can trust. Thank you, and I will recommend you to all my friends and acquaintances who want to buy..Once again ...
Read more
TRY OUR ED PACK
Social bookmarks:
News
Sore knee? Maybe you have a fabella
A little bone scientists thought was being lost to evolution seems to be making a comeback, say experts.
People with learning disabilities 'trapped' in hospitals as target missed
More than 2,200 people with learning disabilities are still being treated in hospitals, figures show.
Mother 'felt suicidal' after baby death news reports
Holly Eastall says she felt suicidal after being falsely accused of abuse following her baby's death.
HIV used to cure 'bubble boy' disease
All eight infants now have fully functioning immune systems after undergoing treatment, say experts.
Bookmark
Sitemap
Subscribe to the news
Home |
About Us |
FAQ |
Our Policy |
Terms & Conditions |
Contact Us
Copyright © unipillz.com. All rights reserved