Ovarian Cyst and PCOS Relief Secrets - Ovarian Help
Ovarian Cyst and PCOS Relief Secrets
Home
Natural Cure for Ovarian Cysts
Ovarian Help
Privacy Policy
Free Counseling
New Page
Ovarian Cancer | Ovarian Cyst Cancer, What does the Doctor do?
4/18/2009
Although many ovarian cysts will disappear naturally over a few menstrual cycles, ovarian cyst removal is often an option or indeed necessary in some cases. For instance, if the cysts are large, solid, irregularly shaped, twisted, ruptured, and causing extreme pain then removal is often a good option. If the cyst is potentially cancerous then surgery is often necessary. As the development of a cancerous ovarian cyst increases with the woman's age, it is more likely to be recommended for older patients to have cysts removed immediately.
Prior to the removal of an ovarian cyst, your health care provider will give you a physical exam and examine the pelvic region. They will also conduct a review of medications, a urine test, and a blood test. They may do a CT scan and X-ray of the abdomen to confirm their diagnosis before considering ovarian cyst removal.
A surgeon will opt for either a laparoscopic surgery or an open surgery to remove the cyst. This generally depends on the state of the cyst and the views of the patient. However in some cases, where the cyst is large, there may not be an option and open surgery is needed.
In laparoscopic surgery, the surgeon makes a small incision in which to insert a thin tube called a LAPAROSCOPE. The tube is used to find the cyst and from there, the surgeon is able to remove the cyst.
To excise a particularly large cyst, the physician may need to perform a surgical procedure for ovarian cyst removal using general anesthesia. The patient may suffer some discomfort after the operation. Complications such as infection and bleeding may occur as well. The patient must recognize that further cysts may develop in the future. And, while it is rare, the patient may also become infertile and/or suffer clotting.
Should the surgeon find no sign of ovarian cancer during the procedure, then is can be relatively safe to say you will be back to normal within a week to two weeks after the operation. However, if ovarian cancer is found, it may be necessary to undergo further surgery to remove one or both ovaries or the decision may be taken to do it in the current procedure. With this completed then a course of ovarian cancer treatment would be required.
After the removal of an ovarian cyst, it is important to notify your doctor if you have a fever or chills, excessive pain or bleeding, shortness of breath, headaches, muscle aches, nausea, abdominal swelling, vomiting, or any other signs of ill health. An ovarian cyst removal, like all other surgeries, must be closely monitored post-surgery but in all likelihood will have no further complications.
This is why thousands of ladies are now looking for a holistic approach or natural treatment, combining lifestyle changes with scientific treatment to help cure their ovarian cyst. Holistic approach is the best treatment to completely eliminate the threat of having an ovarian cyst.
More Info on Ovarian Cysts
What do you think of Natural Ovarian Cyst Removal Treatment?
4/18/2009
Ovarian cysts are fluid-filled pouches which are similar to blisters. Ovarian cysts are common among women when they are fertile and are growths that form on the two almond sized organs on each side of their reproductive system. Most types of ovarian cysts are not that dangerous and go away without any remedy. Ovarian cysts are products of failed ovulation. A functional ovarian cyst is formed when the follicle does NOT release its egg, and the follicle continues to grow forming a cyst wherein the egg is still trapped inside. An ovarian cyst can also exist even if the follicle releases the egg, the hole where the egg is released closes up, the corpus lustrum is NOT formed, and that's also the reason why the cyst continues to grow. And before anything else, if you have ovarian cysts, it is a good decision on your part that you should try to find an ovarian cyst removal remedy and you can find some of them which can be self-applicable. You don't have to go to the doctor or let him let you go under the knife for it.
The first few lines above tell a major reason for ovarian cyst in women. However, according to many experts, it is now believed that XENOESTROGENS may also contribute to ovarian cysts. So, what are XENOESTROGENS? Based on personal research and experiences, this kind of chemical can be found in plastic bags. According to an item in Newsweek, a 19-year-old girl found out that she had ovarian cysts and the doctors have found some traces of XENOESTROGENS in her system and it lead them to a conclusion that it came from plastic bags that were used to wrap food that she brings everyday at school.
It's true that ovarian cysts are harmless and can go away without medical attention but you should be aware that there is such thing as malevolent ovarian cysts. Unless a woman will find an ovarian cyst treatment, she will be suffering from dire situations.
So, what are the best remedies? On the Internet, for your convenience, you can find several treatments for ovarian cysts. Women should receive this information about the ovarian cysts that may rupture in an asymptomatic. However, with the several methods available to treat ovarian cysts, it is wise to appreciate that some may be expensive and others may be designed only to temporarily get rid of the symptom rather than get to the root cause to get rid of the problem. The treatment must be made on the real cause of the problem with a cyst if a solution is to be implemented that will work over the long term.
A holistic program or Natural Treatment is therefore the right choice if you are looking for a real solution to a ruptured ovarian cyst. When you say holistic, it means that you have to get down to the root cause of the problem and no, sir, taking out the ovarian cysts through surgical procedures or medications can't give permanent positive results. The outcome of these treatments is purely temporary. They only get rid of the "obvious" problem and not the root cause and if this is what you are looking for, then, you should do a little researching about different natural treatment for ovarian cysts and some of them are fully explained in book guides that are readily available for download or for direct shipping via online shopping. If you have this kind of malady, the best time to look for these natural treatments is now and you have to do it fast before it's too late.
This is why thousands of ladies are now looking for a holistic approach or natural treatment, combining lifestyle changes with scientific treatment to help cure their ovarian cyst. Holistic approach is the best treatment to completely eliminate the threat of having an ovarian cyst.
More Info on Ovarian Cyst
Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome PCOS - Doctor's FAQ
4/18/2009
Question - What is PCOS?
Answer- PCOS is a little bit different animal actually. Here is some genetic predisposition. PCOS means bunch of those bubbles in the ovaries.
Question - What is the real cause of PCOS?
Answer - Causes of PCOD or PCOS (disease or syndrome) are obesity, genetic predisposition and some other causes of Luteinizing hormone (LH) excess.
Question - Does that mean fat women have high risk of PCOS?
Answer - PCOS kicks in when a woman is obese. There are more fat cells to convert Androstendione to Estrone. Estrone has such effect that it stimulates pituitary secretion of LH. In this case LH causes growth of the cysts in the ovaries.
Also, women with PCOS have intolerance to glucose (sugar) and resistance to insulin.
It means there is a lot of insulin (hormone that helps to utilize glucose mainly).
Question - What is the treatment for PCOS?
Answer - The treatment for PCOS includes different medications: oral contraceptives, progesterone, ovarian wedge resection, mechanical hair removal etc. All methods break the cycle of overproduction. The medications are either hormones themselves or hormone-like substances that occupy receptor site and prevent regular hormone to work.
The medications act on different levels. Normal hormones have very complicated regulation. There are loops and feedback in the pathways.
To suppress a hormone production or action, you give similar hormone or another hormone or nonhormone at all, that goes to the feedback loop and breaks it and so on. It's really long separate discussion.
Basically, you either decrease hormone production or shift ratio toward female hormones.
Another way, the best probably, is weight loss. No fat cells - no conversion of androgens etc. You can make conclusions yourself.
It's the first line of treatment.
For larger cysts, doctor would order pelvic ultrasound.
Most follicular cyst will resolve on their own, in six to eight weeks. If the cyst is still there after 6-8 weeks, a suspicion arises that the cyst maybe malignant. Then doctor orders other studies. CT scans. Physician may perform surgical procedures also.
Question - Can ruptured cyst be infected?
Answer - Cyst content is very nutrient-rich. All those cells and their products are dedicated to feeding the OOCYTE (future baby). Rupture may cause significant bleeding as well. This blood is also different from the blood in your vessels. So, it is very nutrient-rich media for bacteria growth. If a female had another pelvic infection before, that infection can flare up. In a normal person peritoneal cavity should be sterile. However, any gynecological or gastrointestinal infection may supply bacteria. Now, mix these bacteria with the content of the leaking cyst. It just destined to become infected.
All questions are answered by the specialist Dr. Kavokin.
As you know prevention is better than cure. There is a new approach to ovarian cysts. This is called the Holistic approach or the natural treatment for the ovarian cysts and thousands of women all around the world have found that the holistic approach had proved to be the best for them.
More Info on Ovarian Cysts
Ovary Removal Surgery - Do you really Need it?
4/18/2009
You may undergo a Ovary Removal Surgery to remove cysts larger than 5 centimeters in diameter. The majorities of ovarian cysts are benign and are functional cysts, which mean they usually occur as the result of normal processes within the ovaries.
Surgical operation for an ovarian cyst is not a solution for ovarian cyst and this is not a guarantee that you will never have an ovarian cyst again. This is just a last resort to get rid of the extreme pain of an ovarian cyst, which has gained a big size because of being ignored. A Doctor generally recommend removing an ovarian cyst only if the cyst is large, solid, has an irregular shape or could be cancerous. It has more possibilities to be removed if it is twisted or ruptured and is causing extreme pain. Older patients with ovarian cysts are more likely to need to have them removed since the likelihood of having a cancerous cyst increases with age.
A thorough physical examination is needed, before undergoing an ovarian cyst removal. Your doctor will need your medical history, and he will review any current medications that you may be going through. Your doctor will then order routine tests of blood and urine, as well as request that X-rays and CT scan of the abdomen will be done. So that he can confirm the diagnosis of your ovarian cyst and various positions to proceed for operation.
Your surgeon will either opt for a laparoscopic surgery or an open surgery to remove your ovarian cyst. This generally depends on the state of the cyst and the views of the patient. However in some cases, where the cyst is large, there may not be an option and open surgery is needed.
Laparoscopic surgery involves a thin tube. This tube is inserted through a small incision in your lower abdomen. The tube helps to locate an ovarian cyst and with the help of this information, your surgeon will take steps to remove the cyst.
If you had a large ovarian cyst and your doctor had advised to remove it, then a surgery under general anesthesia may be needed. You may suffer from some pain in the abdomen after surgery. You may also experience such complications as infection or bleeding. It is important to understand that recurrence of ovarian cysts is possible. In a few rare cases, the patient may also experience infertility and blood clots.
If during the surgical operation of your ovarian cyst, no ovarian cancer is detected, then it is highly unlikely that there may be some other complications. You may be back to normal in a week or two after the surgery. However if ovarian cancer is found, the patient may need surgery to remove either one or both of the ovaries. After this procedure a treatment program for the ovarian cancer would need to be started.
The best approach to treat an ovarian cyst or even PCOS " POLYCYSTIC Ovarian Cyst" is the Natural treatment called the Holistic Approach for Ovarian Cyst.
When your ovarian cyst is removed by a surgery, then you should look out that these symptoms do not occur to you, symptoms like excessive pain, abdominal swelling, bleeding, or something like fever or chills, nausea, shortness of breath, vomiting, or any other unusual thing. If you find any thing like that you should immediately consult your doctor. And just like any other surgery, surgical removal of an ovarian cyst requires some time to recover and you have to monitor for any complications.
More Info on Ovarian Cysts
PCOS Polycystic Syndrome | PCOS Symptoms and Causes
4/18/2009
There is an imbalance in a woman's body, which affects several hormone systems that may cause women to have a variety of symptoms of having an ovarian cyst. These symptoms also include of having a high level of androgens (a male hormone), missed or irregular period and many small cysts in the ovaries (which are abnormal, closed sac-like structures within a tissue that contain a liquid, gaseous or semisolid substance, they can occur anywhere in the body and can vary in shape).
Symptoms
Other signs include acne, obesity, excessive hair growth, and unusual hair growth and distribution and skin discolorations. If PCOS is not treated it can progress to metabolic syndrome: high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes. Other important signs include endocrine disturbances such as increase in insulin level, increase in PROLACTIN, increase in testosterone level, and increase in LUTEINIZING hormone that stimulates the ovary.
Any of the above symptoms and signs may be absent in PCOS, with the exception of irregular or no menstrual periods and all women with PCOS will have irregular or no menstrual periods. Women who have PCOS do not regularly ovulate, that means; they do not release an egg every month. This is why they do not have regular periods. It is a common cause for an ovulation and female infertility.
PCOS affects at least 20 % of all women of reproductive age, and it is more common in the ladies living in Middle East and Asian populations. However no one is definitely sure what causes PCOS. Although women with PCOS often have a mother or sister with the condition, so there seems to be a hereditary factor. In a study, 93% of girls who had PCOS reported that their mothers also suffered from this syndrome. Stress may also be an important contributing factor, sometimes that stress is biological, such as going through puberty.
Stress
Arab girls who hit puberty tend to feel quite shy and they are mostly ashamed of the change that is happening in their body, and most of the time these girls try to hide any of their physical change even from their mothers. This issue also increases their risk of stress and anxiety and hence the chances of developing an ovarian cyst.
Sometimes stress is the result of a "high energy personality." The symptoms of PCOS seem to occur more often when there is also a diagnosis of bipolar disorder, anxiety, and/or depression. There may be fact that PCOS happens when the woman's body starts to have trouble keeping up with the demands of a stress response that never has the opportunity to turn off. The socio-environmental factor is also significant. " Most people in the Middle East tend to have a very unhealthy lifestyle especially when it comes to sleeping, most people stay awake all night and then sleep in the afternoon, however what people don't realize is that unhealthy sleep is one of the contributing factors to people who suffer from some of the PCOS symptoms.
PCOS is definitely a health problem for ladies that can affect a women's menstrual cycle hindering her ability to have children, plus it leads to the appearance of blood vessels and 60% of women suffering from this problem are obese. Most women with PCOS have troubles in their menstrual cycle mainly because ovulation does not occur and the hormone progesterone is not made, and without progesterone the menstrual cycle is irregular or absent. The small cysts make male hormones, which also prevent ovulation.
Diagnosis
However the PCOS syndrome has many different presentations and no two women are alike. Yet two things do appear to be common in most cases and that is insulin resistance and there is some kind of stressor that pushes a woman's body into 'stress mode'
The diagnosis of PCOS is generally made on the basis of clinical signs and symptoms.
Treatment
However the cysts in the ovaries can be identified with imaging technology such as picture of a typical POLYCYSTIC ovary. "There is no cure for PCOS, treatment goals are only based on the symptoms. For younger ladies who practice birth control, especially those with low "androgenic" (male hormone-like) side effects, birth control pills like Jasmine, can cause regular periods and prevent the risk of uterine cancer. For acne or excess hair growth, a water pill (diuretic) called SPIRONOLACTONE may be prescribed to help reverse these problems.
Other medications include Diane, anti-androgens, FINASTERIDE, VANIQA cream and laser hair removal. For women who desire pregnancy, a medication called CLOMIPHENE (CLOMID) can be used to induce ovulation (cause egg production). In addition, weight loss can normalize menstrual cycles and often increases the possibility of pregnancy in women with PCOS. Therefore modifying one's lifestyle can also help the situation. "The best diet to follow for those suffering from PCOS is a low carbohydrate diet. Emerging research is also pointing to the importance of Omega-3 fatty acids, which maintains mood and hormone function among PCO patients.
Risks and the best approach to handle PCOS or ovarian cysts
Women with PCOS are at a higher risk for a number of illnesses, including high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease, and cancer of the uterus (ENDOMETRIAL cancer). Getting your symptoms under control at an earlier age can reverse much of the risks. It is also important to eat right and exercise, and to avoid smoking cigarettes. A regular test for diabetes can also help. Family support is also very important and everyone needs to know that PCOS is a common illness but is not the most serious illness however treatment of the symptoms at an early stage is a great help to all sufferers of PCOS.
This is why thousands of ladies are now looking for a holistic approach or natural treatment, combining lifestyle changes with scientific treatment to help cure their ovarian cyst. Holistic approach is the best treatment to completely eliminate the threat of having an ovarian cyst.
More Info on Ovarian Cysts
Ovary Pain | Right, Left Ovary Pains - The Top 5 Causes and Risk Factors Involved
4/18/2009
First of all let us find out what exactly is the cyst in your ovary or an ovarian cyst. An ovarian cyst is a collection of fluid / liquid, which is surrounded by a very thin wall, and is within an ovary itself. Any ovarian follicle that is larger than about two centimeters is termed an ovarian cyst. An ovarian cyst can be as small as a pea, or larger than a cantaloupe. Although, an ovarian cyst can affect women of all ages, yet they occur most often, during a woman's childbearing years.
Some ovarian cysts can cause problems, such as bleeding and or pain. Surgery or operation may be required to remove cysts that are larger than 5 centimeters in diameter.
Although, a majority of the ovarian cysts are simply functional in nature, yet some ovarian cysts can turn out to be cancerous in nature. As the first step of correctly diagnosing and treating ovarian cysts is to locate the cause of the disease, it is essential to understand the possible causes of ovarian cysts. However, there is no single cause of ovarian cysts. Ovarian cyst can be triggered by a variety of primary factors and secondary factors. It is imperative to understand these different factors in order to seek appropriate treatment.
Here are the top 5 causes of having a cyst or cysts in ovary / ovarian cyst.
1. If any lady has a family history of female members in blood relations already have had a case of ovarian cyst or PCOS or had any other kind of cyst in ovary, than you may also have the possibility to develop cysts in your ovaries. It's a kind of hereditary weakness. Although genetics plays a leading part in the cause of an ovary cyst, yet it has been determined that alterations to lifestyle can eliminate some of the ovarian cyst symptoms. Comparisons between those who suffer from ovarian cysts against those who don't, has shown that the two cases have a different genetic pattern.
2. If a lady has a weak immune system, she has more chances to develop cysts in ovary. A weak immune may system invites trouble, as it is not able to put up a natural fight against ovarian cyst triggers. There are many factors including dietary factors and having lesser sleep can also lead to weakened immune system.
3. Any lady can develop hormonal imbalance, which can be as a result of certain types of diet. This can increase the chance of having an ovarian cyst. For example, Carbohydrates and processed food can impact your immune system, which can reduce the likelihood of a women's body defending her against ovarian cysts. It is also important to maintain fresh vegetables in your diet to ensure that toxins are removed with the normal process associated with fresh vegetables.
4. If any lady has or had been on serum sex-hormone binding globulin or SHGB, this can also worsen the condition of her ovarian cysts. This will result a possible resistance to insulin which the leads to the ovaries producing an abnormal amount of the male hormone androgen.
5. Another cause of an ovarian cyst can be due to failed ovulation process. Sometimes, the ovaries fail to release egg on a monthly basis. In this case the ovulation fails to produce progesterone and hence brings about hormonal imbalance. This can then lead to the formation of a cyst in your ovaries.
The risk factors involved in the treatment for having a cyst on the ovary.
This has been experienced by all ladies how had ovarian cysts that the doctors will recommend to resort to birth control pills to reduce cysts but this has not been the solution. Infertility is the highest risk involved in taking birth control pills. Many ladies then developed bigger sized cyst, which had to go under surgery to remove the cyst on the ovary. But the surgery is not the solution, because many ladies then developed another bigger size cysts, had so surgery may lead to another surgery.
A combined approach of treatment is preferable to traditional forms of treatment. A holistic approach or natural treatment is necessary, combining lifestyle changes with scientific treatment. Thousands of ladies have fond the Holistic as the best treatment to completely eliminate the threat of having an ovarian cyst. And this thing reassures that Holistic Approach a Natural Treatment for Ovarian Cystis the treatment that lots of ladies around the world is now relying on to eradicate an ovarian cyst or PCOS.
For more facts of an Ovarian Cyst go to Holistic Approach link.
More Info on Ovarian Cysts
Jeniffer Mas
Helping you to eliminate your Ovarian Pains forever.
Cure for Ovarian Pain
Is your doctor right?
Cure PCOS Now!
Treatment for Ovarian Cyst
Treat Polycystic Syndrome
Categories
All
Left Ovary Pain
Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian Cyst Cancer
Ovarian Cyst Removal
Ovarian Surgery
Ovary Cyst Surgery
Ovary Pain
Ovary Removal
Ovary Removal Surgery
Ovary Surgery
Ovary Syndrome
Pcos Faq
Polycystic Ovary
Polycystic Ovary Disease
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Polycystic Syndrome
Remove Ovarian Cysta
Right Ovary Pain
Archives
April 2009
RSS Feed
Conventional Treatment for Ovarian Cyst
Holistic Approch for Ovarian Cysts
Risks and Complications
The Real Cause of Ovarian Cyst
Symptoms and signs of Ovarian cyst
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started