Osteochondritis - Podiatrist in Bronx, NY
Bronx, NY Podiatrist
NYNJ Foot and Ankle Associates
2425 Eastchester Rd
Bronx, NY 10469
(718) 881-7990
Call For Pricing Options
Home
Office
Services
New Patients
Contact Us
Appointment Request
Patient Education
Diabetes Care/ Wound Care
According to the American Diabetes Association, about 15.7 million people (5.9 percent of the United States population) have diabetes. Nervous system damage (also called neuropathy) affects about 60 to 70 percent of people with diabetes and is a major complication that may cause diabetics to lose feeling in their feet or hands.
Foot problems are a big risk in diabetics. Diabetics must constantly monitor their feet tp prevent complications including amputation.
With a diabetic foot, a wound as small as a blister from wearing a shoe that's too tight can cause a lot of damage. Diabetes decreases blood flow, so injuries are slow to heal. When your wound is not healing, it's at risk for infection. As a diabetic, your infections spread quickly. If you have diabetes, you should inspect your feet every day. Look for puncture wounds, bruises, pressure areas, redness, warmth, blisters, ulcers, scratches, cuts and nail problems. Get someone to help you, or use a mirror.
According to the American Diabetes Association, about 15.7 million people (5.9 percent of the United States population) have diabetes. Nervous system damage (also called neuropathy) affects about 60 to 70 percent of people with diabetes and is a major complication that may cause diabetics to lose feeling in their feet or hands.
Foot problems are a big risk in diabetics. Diabetics must constantly monitor their feet or face severe consequences, including amputation.
With a diabetic foot, a wound as small as a blister from wearing a shoe that's too tight can cause a lot of damage. Diabetes decreases blood flow, so injuries are slow to heal. When your wound is not healing, it's at risk for infection. As a diabetic, your infections spread quickly. If you have diabetes, you should inspect your feet every day. Look for puncture wounds, bruises, pressure areas, redness, warmth, blisters, ulcers, scratches, cuts and nail problems. Get someone to help you, or use a mirror.
Here's some basic advice for taking care of your feet:
Always keep your feet warm.
Don't get your feet wet in snow or rain.
Don't put your feet on radiators or in front of the fireplace.
Don't smoke or sit cross-legged. Both decrease blood supply to your feet.
Don't soak your feet.
Don't use antiseptic solutions, drugstore medications, heating pads or sharp instruments on your feet.
Trim your toenails straight across. Avoid cutting the corners. Use a nail file or emery board. If you find an ingrown toenail, contact our office.
Use quality lotion to keep the skin of your feet soft and moist, but don't put any lotion between your toes.
Wash your feet every day with mild soap and warm water.
Wear loose socks to bed.
Wear warm socks and shoes in winter.
When drying your feet, pat each foot with a towel and be careful between your toes.
Buy shoes that are comfortable without a "breaking in" period. Check how your shoe fits in width, length, back, bottom of heel, and sole. Avoid pointed-toe styles and high heels. Try to get shoes made with leather upper material and deep toe boxes. Wear new shoes for only two hours or less at a time. Don't wear the same pair everyday. Inspect the inside of each shoe before putting it on. Don't lace your shoes too tightly or loosely.
Choose socks and stockings carefully. Wear clean, dry socks every day. Avoid socks with holes or wrinkles. Thin cotton socks are more absorbent for summer wear. Square-toes socks will not squeeze your toes. Avoid stockings with elastic tops.
When your feet become numb, they are at risk for becoming deformed. One way this happens is through ulcers. Open sores may become infected. Another way is the bone condition Charcot (pronounced "sharko") foot. This is one of the most serious foot problems you can face. It warps the shape of your foot when your bones fracture and disintegrate, and yet you continue to walk on it because it doesn't hurt. Diabetic foot ulcers and early phases of Charcot fractures can be treated with a total contact cast.
The shape of your foot molds the cast. It lets your ulcer heal by distributing weight and relieving pressure. If you have Charcot foot, the cast controls your foot's movement and supports its contours if you don't put any weight on it. To use a total contact cast, you need good blood flow in your foot. The cast is changed every week or two until your foot heals. A custom-walking boot is another way to treat your Charcot foot. It supports the foot until all the swelling goes down, which can take as long as a year. You should keep from putting your weight on the Charcot foot. Surgery is considered if your deformity is too severe for a brace or shoe.
Here's some basic advice for taking care of your feet and preventing wounds and infections:
Always keep your feet warm.
Don't get your feet wet in snow or rain.
Don't put your feet on radiators or in front of the fireplace.
Don't smoke or sit cross-legged. Both decrease blood supply to your feet.
Don't soak your feet.
Don't use antiseptic solutions, drugstore medications, heating pads or sharp instruments on your feet.
Do not use sharp instruments (such as nail clippers) to cut your toenails. Use a nail file or emery board. If you find an ingrown toenail, contact our office.
Use quality lotion to keep the skin of your feet soft and moist, but don't put any lotion between your toes.
Wash your feet every day with mild soap and warm water.
Wear loose socks to bed.
Wear warm socks and shoes in winter.
When drying your feet, pat each foot with a towel and be careful between your toes.
Buy shoes that are comfortable without a "breaking in" period. Check how your shoe fits in width, length, back, bottom of heel, and sole. Avoid pointed-toe styles and high heels. Try to get shoes made with leather upper material and deep toe boxes. Wear new shoes for only two hours or less at a time. Don't wear the same pair everyday. Inspect the inside of each shoe before putting it on. Don't lace your shoes too tightly or loosely.
Choose socks and stockings carefully. Wear clean, dry socks every day. Avoid socks with holes or wrinkles. Thin cotton socks are more absorbent for summer wear. Square-toes socks will not squeeze your toes. Avoid stockings with elastic tops.
When your feet become numb, they are at risk for becoming deformed. One way this happens is through ulcers. Open sores may become infected. Another way is the bone condition Charcot (pronounced "sharko") foot. This is one of the most serious foot problems you can face. It warps the shape of your foot when your bones fracture and disintegrate, and yet you continue to walk on it because it doesn't hurt. Diabetic foot ulcers and early phases of Charcot fractures can be treated with a total contact cast.
The shape of your foot molds the cast. It lets your ulcer heal by distributing weight and relieving pressure. If you have Charcot foot, the cast controls your foot's movement and supports its contours if you don't put any weight on it. To use a total contact cast, you need good blood flow in your foot. The cast is changed every week or two until your foot heals. A custom-walking boot is another way to treat your Charcot foot. It supports the foot until all the swelling goes down, which can take as long as a year. You should keep from putting your weight on the Charcot foot. Surgery is considered if your deformity is too severe for a brace or shoe.
Diabetes and Your Feet |
Diabetic Foot Care
Osteochondritis is a lesion that usually causes pain and stiffness of the ankle joint and affects all age groups. Osteochondritis is caused by a twisting-type injury to the ankle. Symptoms include swelling and ankle pain.
Immobilization of the foot and ankle for a period of time usually resolves the problem. In more severe cases, however, surgery may be prescribed. During the surgery, loose fragments of cartilage and bone are removed from the ankle joint and, in some cases, small drill holes are made in the defect to stimulate new blood vessels and help form scar tissue that will fill the defect.
What is a Podiatrist?
When To Call a Doctor
Foot Anatomy
Overview of Foot and Ankle Problems
Basic Foot Care Guidelines
Foot Problems
General Statistics
Achilles Problems
Achilles Tendonitis
Peroneal Tendon Dislocation/Dysfunction
Xanthomas of the Achilles Tendon
Ankle Problems
Ankle Sprain
Chronic Lateral Ankle Pain
Osteochondritis
Arch and Ball Problems
Capsulitis
Flat Feet (over pronation)
Metatarsalgia (foot pain in ball)
Plantar Fibromas (lumps in the arch of the foot)
Sesamoiditis
Common Foot Injuries
Ankle Sprain Injuries
Broken Ankle
Fractures
Osteochondritis (stiff ankle)
Osteochondromas
Shin Splints
Sports Injuries
Deformities
Amniotic Band Syndrome
Bunions
Claw Toe
Clubfoot
Dysplasia (Epiphysealis Hemimelica)
Enchondroma
Flat Feet
Gordon Syndrome
Haglund's Deformity
Hallux Limitus (Stiff Big Toe Joint)
Hallux Rigidus (Stiff Big Toe)
Hallux Varus
Hammertoes
Jackson-Weiss Syndrome
Mallet Toes
Metatarsalgia
Osteomyelitis (Bone Infections)
Overlapping or Underlapping Toes
Peroneal Tendon Dislocation/Dysfunction
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction
Sesamoiditis
Spurs
Tarsal Coalition
Diabetes and Your Feet
Diseases of the Foot
Arthritis
Cancer
Charcot Foot
Freiberg's Disease
Gout
Kaposi's Sarcoma (AIDS related)
Kohler's Disease
Maffucci's Syndrome
Ollier's Disease
Raynaud's Disease
Sever's Disease
Sever's Disease
Fungus Problems
Common Fungal Problems
Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis)
Fungal Nails
Heel Problems
Haglund's Deformity
Heel Callus
Heel Fissures
Plantar Fasciitis (heel spur)
Nail Problems
Black Toenails
Ingrown Toenails
Nail Fungus
Skin Problems
Allergies
Athlete's Foot (tinea pedis)
Blisters
Burning Feet
Calluses
Corns
Cysts
Frostbite
Fungus
Gangrene
Lesions
Psoriasis
Smelly Feet and Foot Odor
Swelling
Ulcers
Warts
Toe Problems
Bunions
Claw Toe
Digital Deformity
Hallux Limitus (stiff big toe joint)
Hallux Rigidis (rigid big toe)
Hallux Varus
Hammertoes
Intoeing
Overlapping, Underlapping Toes
Subungal Exotosis (bone spur under toenail)
Turf Toe
Vascular/Nerve Problems
Acrocyanosis
Alcoholic Neuropathy
Chilblains (cold feet)
Erythromelalgia
Ischemic Foot
Neuroma
Spasms
Venous Stasis
Medical Care
Diagnostic Procedures
Computed Tomography
MRI
Ultrasound
X-Rays
Orthotics
Pain Management
General Information and Tips
Pain Management for Specific Conditions
Surgical Procedures
General Information
Achilles Surgery
Ankle Surgery
Arthritis Surgery
Arthroscopy
Bunion Surgery
Cyst Removal
Flatfoot Correction
Hammertoe Surgery
Heel Surgery
Metatarsal Surgery
Nerve Surgery (Neuroma)
Toe Surgery
Therapies
Athlete's Foot Treatment
Cryotherapy
Extracorporeal Shock Wave
Iontophoresis
Physical Therapy
Neurolysis
Fitness and Your Feet
General Information About Fitness and Your Feet
Aerobics
Fitness And Your Feet
Sports and Your Feet
Baseball
Basketball
Cycling
Golf
Jogging and Running
Tennis
Stretching
Walking and Your Feet
Work Footwear
Foot Care
Basic Foot Care Guidelines
Athletic Foot Care
Blisters
Children's Feet
Corns and Calluses
Diabetic Foot Care
Foot Care For Seniors
Foot Self-Exam
Pedicures
Self-Assessment Quiz
Women's Feet
High Heels
Stockings?
Pregnancy
Women Over 65
Your Feet at Work
Bunion Prevention
Burning Feet
Fungus Problems
Athlete's Foot
Common Fungal Problems
Fungal Nails
Other Tips
Prevention
Ingrown Nails
Osteoporosis
Foot Odor and Smelly Feet
Prevention
Treating Foot Odor
Shoes
Anatomy of a Shoe
Athletic Shoe Guidelines
Children's Shoes
Corrective and Prescription Shoes
What To Look For
Getting a Proper Fit
Men's Shoes
Women's Shoes
Your Footprint
Wear Patterns
Links
Government
Associations/Groups
Online Resources
Bronx, NY Podiatrist NYNJ Foot and Ankle Associates 2425 Eastchester Rd Bronx, NY 10469 (718) 881-7990 Call For Pricing Options
Home
Staff
Office
Services
New Patients
Patient Education
Contact Us
Appointment Request
Copyright © MH Sub I, LLC dba Officite
Disclaimer
Patient Privacy
Site Map