tylenol | Manu's Alternative Medicine Blog
Home
About
RSS
Manu's Alternative Medicine Blog
News and opinion related to alternative medicine. Disclaimer: nothing anywhere on this blog is intended as medical advice, or to substitute for medical advice, or intended to treat, cure or prevent any disease. It's intended for educational, informational, or entertainment purposes only. Before making any changes to your health care regimen always consult your qualified licensed health care professional.
Hey there! Thanks for dropping by Manu's Alternative Medicine Blog! Take a look around and grab the RSS feed to stay updated. See you around!
News
Politics
Research
Opinion
Uncategorized
Tag Archive: tylenol
Some Natural Treatments for Pain and Inflammation
Filed under: News, Research — Leave a comment
January 25, 2014
So this week I’m pleased to bring you some good news about natural treatments for pain and inflammation.
One of the most impressive herbs for this purpose is turmeric. In this video by Dr. Greger he presents the latest evidence that turmeric is useful for rheumatoid arthritis, an inflammatory illness, which even proved superior to a common drug in a clinical trial (a dosage of 500 mg curcumin was used in this study, which is the amount in 10 grams of turmeric, or about one and one half tablespoons). Furthermore, turmeric also proved effective in treating osteoarthritis, which is caused by chronic wear and tear on joints. In fact once again turmeric compared very favorably with pharmaceutical drugs in the treatment of osteoarthritis-induced knee pain (a dosage of 90 mg curcumin was used in this study, the amount in about 2/3 of a teaspoon of turmeric). Turmeric also reduces inflammation in general.
One of the compounds in turmeric responsible for much of these beneficial effects is called curcumin; it’s about 5% by weight of a given quantity of turmeric. One problem in using turmeric as a medicine is that the bioavailability – the amount of the substance that is actually usable by the body – of curcumin is relatively low. You can increase the bioavailability of curcumin by 2000% by adding some black pepper; even just 1/4 tsp of black pepper turns out to have this effect. Another strategy is to add oil; a healthy oil like coconut oil or avocado oil might be useful here. So to get the medicinal effects one strategy is to take the traditional route: have a curry made with turmeric and black pepper. A nouveau strategy might be to make a smoothie using coconut milk, a teaspoon or two of turmeric, 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper, a banana, and maybe a few dates for sweetness 🙂
Should everyone take turmeric? Dr. Greger cautions us that those who have gallstones, are prone to kidney stones, or are pregnant might want to avoid it or eat it only in moderation; it contains a fairly high concentration of oxalates (which are associated with kidney stone formation), can cause the gallbladder to contract, and in very high doses can cause DNA damage: http://nutritionfacts.org/video/who-shouldnt-consume-curcumin-or-turmeric/.
While we’re on the subject of osteoarthritis, there is also evidence that other natural approaches are effective in treating the pain it causes. Osteoarthritis (sometimes called progressive joint disease) is a disease caused by the gradual deterioration of the cartilage (connective tissue) of a joint, leading it to become stiff and painful. It turns out that ginger applied topically (daily for a week) appears to help. Unfortunately, that study didn’t include a control, but all the participants had previously had conventional medical treatment for their osteoarthritis and not been satisfied with the results. One of the effective methods of application used in the study is called a ginger compress. One simple method of applying a ginger compress that I like to use is this: I just take some very thin slices of fresh ginger, apply it to the painful area, place a thin towel over the ginger, and a hot water bottle or heating pad on top of the towel; I warm the area for about 15 minutes.
Tart cherries – in addition to the effects on blood pressure noted in my last post – also appear to help relieve osteoarthritis pain. Apparently, the effects can be achieved simply by drinking cherry juice. Note that this study is on tart cherries like the Montmorency, not sweet cherries like the Bing or Rainier varieties (although other studies show some benefits from those as well).
Eating sesame seeds, believe it or not, also help reduce osteoarthritis pain, and do so even better than Tylenol. The amount of sesame seeds used in the study to get this effect was 40 grams per day, which is less than two ounces; the seeds were powdered first (a coffee grinder can do this, or you can use a mortar and pestle). 5 tablespoons a day will get you 45 grams.
Finally on osteoarthritis, this study shows acupuncture beneficial for treating osteoarthritis of the knee: http://www.healthcmi.com/Acupuncture-Continuing-Education-News/1233-osteoarthritiskneeub23
On the subject of Chinese medicine and pain, I’m excited by the news that researchers have found additional evidence that the herb corydalis (corydalis yanhusuo) is helpful for pain, including inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain (pain caused by nervous system damage). Corydalis has enough analgesic properties to relieve the intensity of pain of a broken ankle, and furthermore does so in way that prevents the body from developing resistance to the herb. It is also non-addictive. These factors, the researchers suggest, may make the herb a suitable treatment for chronic pain.
Traditionally, 3-9 grams of corydalis is cooked in about 3 cups of water for 45 minutes to an hour, and drunk half a cup or so at a time as a tea. It may cause drowsiness, dizziness, and abdominal distention, especially when taken in doses of 10 grams or more; high doses of more than 15 grams can cause serious side effects. See Dan Bensky’s Materia Medica for more information on the traditional use.
And last but not least, Dr. Greger reminds us that the potassium in foods like leafy greens and bananas is a good way to reduce inflammation.
As always, use caution when interpreting this information and in choosing whether to apply it to yourself. In particular, note that herbs can sometimes interact with medications or supplements, so be sure to consult your MD if you’re on any medications. Please take a look at the disclaimer at the top of this page once again 🙂
Having said all that, if you’ve tried any of these strategies or had any experience with them, please feel free to let me know your results here. Anything else you’d like to find out about? I’d love to hear from you!
47.671499 -122.387864
Advertisements
Tags: acupuncture, analgesic, arthritis, cherry, chinese medicine, corydalis, curcumin, evidence, herb, Inflammation, natural, osteoarthritis, pain, relief, research, rheumatoid, sesame seed, study, treatment, turmeric, tylenol
Comment
Advertisements
Recent entries
Sanjay Gupta Gets Some Japanese Acupuncture
Flu shots: Are They Worth Getting?
Is Acupuncture Evidence-Based Medicine?
Fire Cider: A Cure for What Ails You?
Dates, Green Tea, and Blood Sugar: Some Good News for the Holidays
Some Recent Research on Acupuncture
Some Natural Treatments for Pain and Inflammation
Keeping Your Heart Healthy
The Latest Research on Acupuncture, and Needling Sea Turtles
Mushrooms, Saving the World, and You
Browse popular tags
acupuncture animal rights brain cancer chinese medicine cholesterol depression ethics evidence exercise fertility German health heart herbs hibiscus meat medicine migraine MRI news pain pregnancy research stress study Tai chi Tea triglycerides vegetarian
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
Friends & links
Agape Acupuncture in Seattle
Community Acupuncture in Seattle
Documentation
My Facebook Page
One Heart Community Acupuncture in Seattle
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet
Pages
About
Monthly archives
April 2019
January 2018
November 2015
January 2015
December 2014
Blog at WordPress.com.
[ Back to top ]
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy