Nasal irrigation - Natural Pantry
Free Membership Offer! Receive free email newsletters about healthy living, our store and more.
Your E-mail:
My Account
Contact Us
Table of Contents > Alternative Modalities > Nasal irrigation
Nasal irrigation
Related terms
Background
Theory
Evidencetable
Tradition
Safety
Attribution
Bibliography
Related Terms
Antral lavage, antral washout, bulb syringe, endonasal mucosa care, hyperthermia, hypertonic Dead Sea salt, hypertonic saline, inhaler humidified warm air, intranasal douche, Jala Neti, jet lavage, nasal douche, nasal hyperthermia, nasal lavage, nasal saline solution lavage, nasal sprayer, nasal washing, nebulization, neti (irrigation) pot, power irrigation, respiratory hydrotherapy, Rhinomer®, saline lavage, saline nasal irrigation, Smiegelof's irrigation, steam inhalation.
Not included in this review: Proetz displacement (saline irrigation combined with suctioning).
Background
Yoga enthusiasts have used nasal irrigation for thousands of years to clear the sinuses and the mind. Today, nasal irrigation is becoming more widely accepted as a home remedy for allergies, colds, and sinus infections. Nasal irrigation can be performed up to twice daily at home or in a doctor's office, as long as it does not irritate the mucous membranes.
Saline lavage is a type of nasal irrigation that uses a warm liquid solution. Humidified warm air lavage (hyperthermia) uses heated mist, steam, or humidified air. Large-particle nebulized aerosol therapy uses a saline solution nasal spray. Occasionally, antibiotics are added to the solution.
There is variability in nasal irrigation techniques. Differences include the method of saline delivery, the strength of the saline solution, and the use of other additives. Delivery methods include the traditional neti (irrigation) pot, nasal sprayer, bulb syringe, cupped hand, and commercially available devices. The strength of the saline solution depends on the amount of salt added to the water. Additives have included antibiotics, substances that narrow the blood vessels (called vasoconstrictors), and buffers, which reduce acidity. Some practitioners recommend buffered hypersaline solution, although this may irritate the nasal tissues. Gravity-fed normal saline is often used in Jali Neti, one form of nasal irrigation.
There is growing evidence to support nasal irrigation because it is more natural, soothing, generally safe, and less expensive than many over-the-counter medications. It also does not cause side effects often associated with these medications, such as drowsiness and nausea.
The International Consensus Report on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Rhinitis recommends nasal irrigation for the treatment of swollen nasal airways (called rhinitis). There is good evidence for the use of nasal irrigation in allergic rhinitis and sinusitis. There is also promising early evidence that nasal irrigation may help treat the common cold, respiratory symptoms from occupational exposure, and wounds after sinus or nasal surgeries. Nasal saline irrigation is still the main treatment for acute rhinitis in infants because excessive use of nasal drops that narrow blood vessels is unsafe in early childhood.
Theory
It is unclear how saline nasal irrigation may work. It has been suggested that nasal irrigation may clear mucus, improve the function of the tiny hairs that move mucus through the nasal passages, reduce the number of particles that stick to the inside of the nasal passages, decrease swelling, and/or decrease levels of chemicals that cause swelling. It has also been suggested that heat from nasal irrigation may directly interfere with allergens. Vapor may stabilize the mucosal surface and reduce symptoms of congestion and a runny nose.
In traditional systems of healing, nasal irrigation is believed to help prevent against disease and improve symptoms of a variety of nasal and sinus conditions.
Evidence Table
These uses have been tested in humans or animals. Safety and effectiveness have not always been proven. Some of these conditions are potentially serious, and should be evaluated by a qualified healthcare provider.
GRADE *
Several studies suggest that nasal irrigation with normal or hypertonic saline may effectively treat allergic rhinitis in adults and children. Better studies are needed before a strong recommendation can be made.
B
Early research suggests that nasal irrigation may help treat chronic sinusitis, with improvements in sinus-related quality of life, decreases in symptoms, and decreases in medication use. Further study is needed before a strong recommendation can be made.
B
Early research suggests that hypertonic saline aerosol may enhance the clearance of lung secretions. More studies are needed.
C
Early human studies found that nasal steam inhalation may not improve common cold symptoms. Well-conducted research is needed to make a more compelling case.
C
There is some evidence that saline nasal irrigation or inhaled steam may improve mucus clearance in people with cystic fibrosis. Some studies have added antibiotics or drugs that affect cellular sodium channels. Further study is needed.
C
Studies have examined whether the amount of bacteria in the nasal passages before and after nasal surgery can be reduced by nasal washing (with or without added antibiotics or corticosteroids). Although some evidence suggests that bacteria are reduced, it is unclear if this therapy reduces the risk of infections after surgery.
C
Early evidence supports the use of nasal irrigation for respiratory symptoms or diseases caused by occupational exposure to dust or air pollutants. In addition, several studies suggest that nasal irrigation may be used to examine the inhalation effects of acute occupational exposure, especially to pollutants. More research is needed in this area.
C
* Key to grades
A: Strong scientific evidence for this use
B: Good scientific evidence for this use
C: Unclear scientific evidence for this use
D: Fair scientific evidence for this use (it may not work)
F: Strong scientific evidence against this use (it likley does not work)
Tradition / Theory
The below uses are based on tradition, scientific theories, or limited research. They often have not been thoroughly tested in humans, and safety and effectiveness have not always been proven. Some of these conditions are potentially serious, and should be evaluated by a qualified healthcare provider. There may be other proposed uses that are not listed below.
Asthma, dizziness, multidrug resistance (antibiotics), nasal septal deviation, swollen mucous membranes.
Safety
Many complementary techniques are practiced by healthcare professionals with formal training, in accordance with the standards of national organizations. However, this is not universally the case, and adverse effects are possible. Due to limited research, in some cases only limited safety information is available.
Nasal irrigation is likely safe for the general population when used daily with proper technique. There are some reports of nasal irritation, nasal discomfort, itchiness, earache, cough, sneezing, nosebleeds, increased allergy symptoms, dizziness, and pooling of saline in the paranasal sinuses.
Some preparations include drugs that may cause side effects. Studies using saline plus ephedrine added have noted brief episodes of irregular heartbeat, lightheadedness, and nasal burning in a few people. Cystic fibrosis patients have experienced increased cough (that sometimes included blood), throat irritation, and chest tightness.
Nasal irrigation should be used cautiously in people with frequent nosebleeds.
After nasal surgery, nasal irrigation should be discussed with the surgeon.
People with impaired gag reflexes, such as patients with chronic illnesses or recovering from surgery, may be at risk of fluid entering the windpipe or lungs (aspiration). A healthcare provider should be consulted before starting therapy.
Irritation or burning of the nasal passage may occur if the irrigation solution is too hot.
Bacterial infections from dirty equipment are possible.
In children, nasal irrigation is sometimes performed by healthcare providers. Limited research suggests that nasal irrigation is safe in children older than seven years. However, the safety in children is unclear when nasal irrigation is performed outside of a doctor's office.
To prevent bacterial infections, disinfection treatment is effective if associated with carefully selected materials, good circuit design, and good maintenance practices.
Nasal irrigation may affect the action of other drugs, herbs, and supplements, such as antibiotics, antihistamines, anti-inflammatories, antivirals, cough suppressants, and nasal sprays.
Attribution
This information is based on a systematic review of scientific literature edited and peer-reviewed by contributors to the Natural Standard Research Collaboration (www.naturalstandard.com).
Bibliography
Berger ME, Jones OW, Ricks RC, et al. Decontaminating the nasal passages. Health Phys 2003;84(5 Suppl):S80-S82.
Cordray S, Harjo JB, Miner L. Comparison of intranasal hypertonic dead sea saline spray and intranasal aqueous triamcinolone spray in seasonal allergic rhinitis. Ear Nose Throat J 2005;84(7):426-30.
Desrosiers MY, Salas-Prato M. Treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis refractory to other treatments with topical antibiotic therapy delivered by means of a large-particle nebulizer: results of a controlled trial. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2001;125(3):265-269.
Friedman M, Vidyasagar R, Joseph N. A randomized, prospective, double-blind study on the efficacy of dead sea salt nasal irrigations. Laryngoscope 2006;116(6):878-82.
Garavello W, Di Berardino F, Romagnoli M, et al. Nasal rinsing with hypertonic solution: an adjunctive treatment for pediatric seasonal allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. Int Arch Allergy Immunol 2005;137(4):310-314.
Garavello W, Romagnoli M, Sordo L, et al. Hypersaline nasal irrigation in children with symptomatic seasonal allergic rhinitis: a randomized study. Pediatr Allergy Immunol 2003;14(2):140-143.
Greiff L, Anderson M, Wollmer P, et al. Hypertonic saline increases secretory and exudative responsiveness of human nasal airway in vivo. Eur Respir J 2003;Feb, 21:308-312.
Heatley DG, McConnell KE, Kille TL, et al. Nasal irrigation for the alleviation of sinonasal symptoms. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2001;125(1):44-48.
Passali D, Damiani V, Passali FM, et al. Atomized nasal douche vs nasal lavage in acute viral rhinitis. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2005;131(9):788-790.
Rabago G, Manito N, Palomo J, et al. Improvement of chronic renal failure after introduction of mycophenolate mofetil and reduction of cyclosporine dose. J Heart Lung Transplant 2001;20(2):193.
Rabago D, Zgierska A, Mundt M, et al. Efficacy of daily hypertonic saline nasal irrigation among patients with sinusitis: a randomized controlled trial. J Fam Pract 2002;Dec, 51(12):1049-1055.
Ricchetti A, Landis BN, Maffioli A, et al. Effect of anti-fungal nasal lavage with amphotericin B on nasal polyposis. J Laryngol Otol 2002;116(4):261-263.
Shin SH, Ye MK. Effects of topical amphotericin B on expression of cytokines in nasal polyps. Acta Otolaryngol 2004;124(10):1174-1177.
Tano L, Tano K. A daily nasal spray with saline prevents symptoms of rhinitis. Acta Otolaryngol 2004;124(9):1059-1062.
Wormald PJ, Cain T, Oates L, et al. A comparative study of three methods of nasal irrigation. Laryngoscope 2004;114(12):2224-2227.
Copyright © 2011 Natural Standard (www.naturalstandard.com)
The information in this monograph is intended for informational purposes only, and is meant to help users better understand health concerns. Information is based on review of scientific research data, historical practice patterns, and clinical experience. This information should not be interpreted as specific medical advice. Users should consult with a qualified healthcare provider for specific questions regarding therapies, diagnosis and/or health conditions, prior to making therapeutic decisions.
Search Site
Entire SiteReference LibraryHealthy RecipesNews & Features
Home
About Us
Reference Library
Health Calculators
News & Features
Healthy Recipes
Ingredient Glossary
Health-E-Coupons
Coupons
Home | About Us | Reference Library | News & Features | Healthy Recipes | Health-E-Coupons | Coupons | My Email Subscription | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
All contents © Copyright 1999-2019 Genius Central and Natural Pantry. All rights reserved. This internet site is hosted by Genius Central, a Web site service provider to natural health stores nationwide. Genius Central and Natural Pantry have no means of independently evaluating the safety or functionality of the products offered by their suppliers and affiliates and thus can neither endorse nor recommend products. Information presented is of a general nature for educational and informational purposes only. Statements about products and health conditions have not been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration. Products and information presented herein are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Your use of this site indicates your agreement to be bound by our Terms and Conditions