Appetite for Infection: Should a Cold Be Starved and a Fever Be Fed? - MPR
Skip to navigation Skip to main content
Menu
Close
Search drug information, news and resources
Submit
Resource Centers
Open Submenu
Resource Centers
Back
Allergic Disorders
Cardiovascular Disease
Dermatological Disorders
Diagnostic Agents
Endocrine Disorders
Gastrohepatic Disorders
Geriatrics
Hematological Disorders
Immune Disorders
Immunization
Infectious Diseases
Kidney Disease
Metabolic Disorders
Musculoskeletal Disorders
Neurologic Disorders
Nutrition
OB/GYN
Oncology
Ophthalmic Disorders
Oral Health
Otic Disorders
Pain Management
Pediatrics
Poisoning & Drug Dependence
Psychiatric Disorders
Respiratory Disorders
Urological Disorders
Drugs
Open Submenu
Drugs
Back
Drug Search
Browse by Brand
Browse by Generic
Browse by Therapeutic Category
Browse by Manufacturer
More
New Drug Products
Drug Monograph Updates
Drug Treatment Tables
Trial Tracker
Monthly Drug Updates
New Drug Products
New Drug Product: Dexycu
New Drug Product: Motegrity
New Drug Product: Gamifant
News
Open Submenu
News
Back
Drug News
Alternative Medicine
Safety Alerts and Recalls
Generics News
Drugs in the Pipeline
Conference Coverage
Guidelines
Medical Technology
Healthcare Policy
Features
Open Submenu
Features
Back
Features
Case Studies
Ask the Experts
Latest Features
Protecting Your Practice From Data Breaches: An Expert Interview
Physician Liable When Vital Information Not Conveyed to Patient, Other Clinicians
Managing Psoriatic Arthritis: Updated 2018 Recommendations From ACR/NPF
My Diagnosis Is...
Clinical Challenge: Asymptomatic Blisters on the Hands, Arms, and Feet
Clinical Challenge: Thickening of the Nose Skin
Charts
Tools
Open Submenu
Tools
Back
Expand Your Knowledge
Calculators
ICD-10
Medical Devices & Products
Patient Information
Enrich Your Practice
CME Courses
Jobs
Have a Little Fun!
Cartoons
Quizzes
CME/CE
App
Subscribe
Login
Register
Home » Features
Publish Date September 29, 2016
Appetite for Infection: Should a Cold Be Starved and a Fever Be Fed?
Ruslan Medzhitov, Professor of Immunobiology, Yale University
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Reddit
Print
Share by Email
Why does eating affect bacterial and viral infections differently?
Think back to the last time you came down with a cold and what it felt like to be sick. For most people, the feeling of sickness is a set of psychological and behavioral changes including fatigue, lethargy, changes in appetite, changes in sleep patterns and a desire to be away from others.
Of course, none of these changes feel particularly good, but what if they are actually good for us in terms of recovering from the infection?
Interestingly, these infection-induced behavioral changes, collectively known as “sickness behaviors,” occur in most other animals – from your pet dogs and cats to the worms in your backyard. Because so many animals exhibit sickness behaviors during infection, scientists have thought for decades that these behaviors may protect us from infections.
In our immunobiology lab at Yale University, we are interested in these sickness behaviors and most recently have focused on the aspect of appetite loss during infection. If all sickness behaviors indeed help us survive infections, then how does loss of appetite specifically fit in?
One common theory is that although we are starving ourselves, starvation is worse for the bacteria or virus than it is for us. Some scientific evidence supports this theory, but a lot does not.
Recently we ventured to reexamine why we lose our appetites when we get sick.
Why your appetite matters when you get an infection
The question of whether or not we should eat when we get sick is commonly argued, both at home and in the hospital. Every family has its own beliefs about how to address appetite loss during infection.
Some believe it’s best to keep well-fed regardless of desire to eat, some swear by old adages like “feed a fever, starve a cold” and few suggest letting the sick individual’s appetite guide their food consumption. Determining which of these is the right approach – or if it even matters – could help people recover better from mild infections.
Another, perhaps more important, reason to understand appetite changes during infection is to improve survival of critically ill patients in intensive care units across the world. Critically ill patients often cannot feed themselves, so doctors generally feed them during the time of critical illness.
But how much food is the right amount of food? And what type of food is best? And which patients should we feed? Doctors have struggled with these questions for decades and have performed many clinical trials to test different feeding regimens, but no definitive conclusions have been reached.
If we could understand the role of appetite in infection, we could provide more rational care for infected patients at home and in the hospital.
Is losing your appetite a good thing when you’re sick?
Based on our recent findings, it depends.
Like humans, lab mice lose their appetite when infected. When we infected mice with the bacteria Listeria monocytogenes and fed them, they died at a much higher frequency.
In stark contrast, when we infected mice with the flu virus and fed them, they survived better than their unfed counterparts.
Pages:
1 2
Topics:
Features Lifestyle Infectious Disease Nutrition Viral Infections Vitamins/minerals/supplements
Recommended For You
Popular
Emailed
Recent
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Want to read more?
Please login or register first to view this content.
Login
Register
Back to Top
Resources
MPR Publications
Subscribe
User Center
FAQ
Customer Services
Advertise
Share Your Feedback
Haymarket Medical Network
Cancer Therapy Advisor
Clinical Advisor
Clinical Pain Advisor
Dermatology Advisor
Endocrinology Advisor
Hematology Advisor
Infectious Disease Advisor
McKnight's Long Term Care News
McKnight's Senior Living
Medical Bag
myCME
Neurology Advisor
Oncology Nurse Advisor
Psychiatry Advisor
Pulmonology Advisor
Renal & Urology News
Rheumatology Advisor
The Cardiology Advisor
Copyright © 2019 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media’s Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Close more info about Appetite for Infection: Should a Cold Be Starved and a Fever Be Fed?
Loading...
Close more info about Appetite for Infection: Should a Cold Be Starved and a Fever Be Fed?
Loading...