stress relief | DrTroyBuescher
DrTroyBuescher
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
About
Tag Archives: stress relief
Top 5 Benefits of Chiropractic
Posted on August 8, 2016 by Dr. Troy Buescher
Reply
Are There Any Benefits of Chiropractic Care That You May Not Know About?
There are a number of different reasons why patients decide to seek out chiropractic care. Whether you are getting adjusted for headaches, low back pain, or anything in between, there are a number of ways that spinal adjustments can help your overall health. When you take care of your nervous system, your entire body can benefit. This is why there are so many great benefits of chiropractic care that the average person doesn’t even know about. Here are some of the best benefits of chiropractic care that could help improve your life.
1. Relieve Stress: When your nervous system is interfered with, your spinal bones are misaligned and your muscles are imbalanced, chances are your entire body will feel out of line. This can cause a great deal of mental and physical stress on your body. Once you have been balanced, your body will immediately feel less tense, and this message of relaxation will also go straight to the brain.
2. Improve Posture: Over time, regular chiropractic adjustments can help align tilting and abnormal curves in your spine and help you improve your posture. This can be particularly beneficial when it comes to the curve in your neck. Many people develop neck issues younger than ever, due to their constant position sitting in front of a computer screen or hunched over a phone.
3. Improve Your Mood: When you get adjusted, you are balancing your body’s entire system. This includes your body chemistry. This means that those who are suffering from certain chemical imbalances will often benefit from chiropractic care. Many people dealing with depression can see an improvement in their mood with regular chiropractic care. Many individuals with ADHD have also seen great benefits with regular adjustments.
4. Improve Your Immune System: When you get adjusted, your chiropractor is removing subluxations that are preventing your nervous system from working properly. Keeping your nervous system working properly keeps your immune system working properly, meaning your immune system will start working better and you will start recovering from illnesses faster.
5. Improve Your Sleep: Many sleep problems are related to pain, stress and body aches and imbalances in the nervous system. Taking care of these issues with regular chiropractic care can help any individual improve their sleep quality and get the rest they need every night.
Regular chiropractic care can provide these benefits and more by removing interference to your nervous system allowing your body to work a peak performance.
Advertisements
Posted in ADHD, Nervous System, Posture, Wellness	| Tagged chiropractic, Chiropractic Adjustment, Immune System, mental stress, Mood, Sleep, stress relief, subluxation	| Leave a reply
7 Mental Health Benefits of Exercise
Posted on June 24, 2014 by Dr. Troy Buescher
Reply
How Does Exercise Benefit My Mental Health?
1. Reduce Stress: Rough day at the office? Take a walk or head to the gym for a quick workout. One of the most common mental benefits of exercise is stress relief. Working up a sweat can help manage mental stress. Exercise increases your level of norepinephrine, a chemical that can moderate the brain’s response to stress.
2. Boost Happy Chemicals: Slogging through a few miles on the treadmill can be tough, but it’s worth the effort! Exercise releases endorphins, which create feelings of happiness and euphoria. Studies have shown that exercise can even help alleviate symptoms of depression among the clinically depressed.
3. Enjoy The Great Outdoors: Find an outdoor workout that fits your style, whether it’s rock-climbing, hiking, renting a canoe or just taking a jog in the park. All the Vitamin D acquired from soaking up the sun can lessen the likelihood of experiencing depressive symptoms.
4. Prevent Cognitive Decline: It’s unpleasant, but it’s true… as we get older, our brains get a little… hazy. As aging and degenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s kill off brain cells, the brain actually shrinks, losing many important brain functions in the process. While exercise and a healthy diet can’t “cure” Alzheimer’s, they can slow cognitive decline by preventing the degeneration of the hippocampus, an important part of the brain for memory and learning.
5. Alleviate Anxiety: Quick Q&A: Which is better at relieving anxiety… a warm bubble bath or a 20-minute jog? You might be surprised at the answer. The warm and fuzzy chemicals that are released during and after exercise can help people with anxiety disorders calm down.
6. Boost Brainpower: Cardiovascular exercise can create new brain cells and improve brain performance. Studies suggest that a tough workout increases levels of a brain-derived protein (known as BDNF) in the body, believed to help with decision making, higher thinking and learning.
7. Sharpen Memory: Regular physical activity boosts memory and the ability to learn new things by increasing the production of hippocampus cells responsible for memory and learning.
Posted in Exercise, Wellness	| Tagged benefits of exercise, Exercise Benefit, Exercise releases endorphins, mental stress, stress relief	| Leave a reply
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Recent Posts
How Does Chiropractic Stack Up for Low Back Pain? April 8, 2019
Can the Cervical Spine Cause Shoulder Pain? March 18, 2019
Can Chiropractic Adjustments Help Headaches? February 6, 2019
A Weak Core May Contribute to Hip Pain December 17, 2018
Back Pain: Does Maintenance Care Work? December 10, 2018
Categories
ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Ask the Doctor
Asthma
Back Pain
Carpal Tunnel
Children
chiropractic
Chiropractic Adjustment
Concussion
Diet
Exercise
Fatigue
Fibromyalgia
Headaches
Knee Pain
Low Back Pain
Neck Pain
Nervous System
Nutrition
Posture
Pregnacy
Recommendations
Reports
Sciatica
Shoulder Pain
Sleep
Social
Sports
Tribute
Uncategorized
Videos
Wellness
Whiplash
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Follow
Chiropractic Links
Dr. Troy Buescher's Website
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Advertisements
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy