Osteoarthritis Pictures: Which Joints Are at Risk? How Can You Prevent It?
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Osteoarthritis
Slideshows
Slideshow: A Visual Guide to Understanding Osteoarthritis
1 / 17
Osteoarthritis: What Is It?
Also called "wear and tear" arthritis or degenerative joint disease, osteoarthritis (OA) is the progressive breakdown of the joints' natural shock absorbers. This can cause discomfort when you use the affected joints -- perhaps an ache when you bend at the hips or knees, or sore fingers when you type. Most people over 60 have some degree of OA, but it also affects people in their 20s and 30s.
Swipe to advance
2 / 17
Osteoarthritis: Symptoms
The symptoms of osteoarthritis tend to develop slowly. You may notice pain or soreness when you move certain joints or when you've been inactive for a prolonged period. The affected joints may also be stiff or creaky. Typically, osteoarthritis leads to morning stiffness that resolves in 30 minutes. When osteoarthritis affects the hands, some people develop bony enlargements in the fingers, which may or may not cause pain.
Swipe to advance
3 / 17
Osteoarthritis: Where Does It Hurt?
In most cases, osteoarthritis develops in the weight-bearing joints of the knees, hips, or spine. It's also common in the fingers. Other joints such as the elbow, wrist, and ankle are usually not affected, unless an injury is involved.
Swipe to advance
4 / 17
Osteoarthritis: What Causes It?
Every joint comes with a natural shock absorber in the form of cartilage. This firm, rubbery material cushions the ends of the bones and reduces friction in healthy joints. In general, as we age our joints become stiffer and cartilage can become more vulnerable to wear and tear. At the same time, repetitive use of the joints over the years irritates the cartilage. If it deteriorates enough, bone rubs against bone, causing pain and reducing range of motion.
Swipe to advance
5 / 17
Risk Factors You Can't Control
One of the major risk factors for osteoarthritis is something none of us can control -- getting older. Gender also plays a role. Over age 50, more women than men develop osteoarthritis. In most cases, the condition results from normal wear and tear over the years. But some people have a genetic defect or joint abnormality that makes them more vulnerable.
Swipe to advance
6 / 17
Risk Factors You Can Control
Because injured joints are more vulnerable to osteoarthritis, doing anything that damages the joints can raise your risk. This includes sports that have a high rate of injury and jobs that require repetitive motion, such as bending the knees to install flooring. Obesity is another risk factor -- it has been linked specifically to osteoarthritis of the hands, knees and hips.
Swipe to advance
7 / 17
Impact on Daily Life
Osteoarthritis affects each person differently. Some people have few symptoms despite the deterioration of their joints. Others experience pain and stiffness that may interfere with daily activities. If bony knobs develop in the small joints of the fingers, tasks such as buttoning a shirt can become difficult. Osteoarthritis of the knees or hips can lead to a limp. And osteoarthritis of the spine can cause debilitating pain and/or numbness.
Swipe to advance
8 / 17
Diagnosing Osteoarthritis
To help your doctor make an accurate diagnosis, you'll need to describe your symptoms in detail, including the location and frequency of any pain. Your doctor will examine the affected joints and may order X-rays or other imaging studies to see how much damage there is, and to rule out other joint conditions. Your doctor may suggest doing blood tests to rule out other forms of arthritis.
Swipe to advance
9 / 17
Long-Term Complications
Unlike rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis does not affect the body's organs or cause illness. But it can lead to deformities that take a toll on mobility. Severe loss of cartilage in the knee joints can cause the knees to curve out, creating a bow-legged appearance (shown on the left). Bony spurs along the spine (shown on the right) can irritate nerves, leading to pain, numbness, or tingling in some parts of the body.
Swipe to advance
10 / 17
Treatment: Physical Therapy
There is no treatment to stop the erosion of cartilage in the joints, but there are ways to improve joint function. One of these is physical therapy to increase flexibility and strengthen the muscles around the affected joints. The therapist may also apply heat or cold therapies such as heat packs or compresses to relieve pain.
Swipe to advance
11 / 17
Supportive Devices
Supportive devices, such as finger splints or knee braces, can reduce stress on the joints and ease pain. If walking is difficult, canes, crutches, or walkers may be helpful. People with osteoarthritis of the spine may benefit from switching to a firmer mattress and wearing a back brace or neck collar.
Swipe to advance
12 / 17
Medication for OA
When osteoarthritis flares up, many patients find relief with over-the-counter pain and anti-inflammatory medication, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen. Pain-relieving creams or sprays can also help when applied directly to the sore area. If pain persists despite the use of pills or creams, your doctor may suggest an injection of steroids or hyaluronans directly into the knee joint.
Swipe to advance
13 / 17
Supplements
Overall studies suggest no benefits of glucosamine and chondroitin -- supplements available at pharmacies and health food stores touted for relieving pain and stiffness for people with osteoarthritis. Check with your doctor before using chondroitin, especially if you take blood-thinners. Other supplements such as antioxidants vitamin C and E and vitamin D have not been shown to help.
Swipe to advance
14 / 17
Osteoarthritis and Weight
If you're overweight, one of the most effective ways to relieve pain and improve function of joints in the knee or hip joints is to shed a few pounds. Even modest weight loss has been shown to reduce symptoms of osteoarthritis by easing the strain on weight-bearing joints. Losing weight not only cuts down on pain, but may also reduce long-term joint damage.
Swipe to advance
15 / 17
Osteoarthritis and Exercise
People with osteoarthritis may avoid exercise out of concern that it will cause pain. But low-impact activities such as swimming, walking, or bicycling can improve mobility and increase strength. Training with light weights can help by strengthening the muscles that surround your joints. For example, strengthening the quadriceps can reduce pain in the knees. Ask your doctor or physical therapist which exercises are best for you.
Swipe to advance
16 / 17
Is Surgery for You?
If osteoarthritis interferes significantly with everyday life and the symptoms don't improve with physical therapy or medication, surgery is an option. Joint replacement or resurfacing is used on those with severe OA . The knee and hip are the joints that are replaced most often.
Swipe to advance
17 / 17
Preventing Osteoarthritis
The most important thing you can do to ward off osteoarthritis is keep your weight in check. Over the years, extra weight puts stress on the joints and may even alter the normal joint structure. Preventing injuries is also important. Take precautions to avoid repetitive motion injuries on the job. If you play a sport, use proper equipment and observe safety guidelines.
Swipe to advance
Up Next
Next Slideshow Title
Skip Ad
1 / 17
Skip Ad
Sources | Medically Reviewed on 01/17/2018 Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on January 17, 2018
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
1) Peter Dazeley/Photographer's Choice
2) Nisian Hughes/The Image Bank
3) ISM/Phototake/Dr. P Marazzi/Photo Researchers Inc
4) Carol Donner/Phototake
5) Zave Smith/Photographer's Choice
6) Erik Isakson/Tetra Images
7) Skip Nall/White
8) BSIP/Photo Researchers Inc
9) Bart's Medical Library/ISM/Phototake
10) John Lund/Blend Images
11) Stockbyte
12) I Love Images
13) Cordelia Molloy/Photo Researchers Inc
14) Cappi Thompson/Flickr
15) Armwell/Riser
16) Dr. P Marazzi/Photo Researchers, Inc
17) Altrendo Images
REFERENCES:
Arthritis Foundation.
Clegg, D. New England Journal of Medicine, February 2006.
Medical News Today.
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.
Up to Date.
Walker-Bone, K. British Medical Journal, October 2000.
Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on January 17, 2018
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information.
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
WebMD Slideshows
View our slideshows to learn more about your health.
Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches?
Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task.
Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for.
Attention Killers What steals your concentration?
Cancer Does THIS cause cancer?
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.