Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake: November 2012
Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake
Welcome to the Podiatry Blog of Dr Richard Blake of San Francisco. I hope that the information here will help you in some way. Please feel free to leave a comment on the blog, or email me questions at drblakeshealingsole@gmail.com. If the blog helps you, consider a $5 donation to keep the blog growing. Thank you so very much for the generosity. Dr Rich Blake
Total Pageviews
Followers
Search This Blog
Paypal Button for Donations
Friday, November 30, 2012
Fractured Sesamoid: Email Advice
Dr. Blake,
I was diagnosed with a fibula sesamoid fracture on my left foot. I feel like I am walking on a golf ball and that is what I call it now. I walk on the side of my foot to keep the pressure off of the ball of my foot but that is causing knee pain and hip pain.
The podiatrist that I saw took one set of x-rays sold me cushions for my shoes and arch supports to wear. I tried those for 2 weeks and no relief. When I returned to the podiatrist he suggested since the arch supports provided no relief that I try a cortisone shot. The shot took the inflammation out of my foot,for about a week, so it felt like the golf ball went away but the pain was more severe since there was not any extra padding on the ball of my foot.
I returned to the Dr. 2 weeks later and he said there is nothing else he can do surgery is my only option and sent me home. I feel after reading your blog that I really need a second opinion before I let anyone do surgery on my foot. My question is do I get that second opinion from another podiatrist or do I try to see an orthopedic doctor? I am scheduled for surgery on December 28, 2012. Any help or advice is very much appreciated. I have cried with my husband over this whole situation and how frustrated I am please help.
Sincerely,
Kara (name changed)
Dear Kara,
Thank you for paying me the biggest compliment allowing the blog to help you. Please cancel the surgery so that the next 6 months can be dedicated to healing, not hoping the surgery can be avoided. I would not focus on the surgery, even though you may go that route in a much more enlightened frame of mind.
The following checklist should help you focus on what you should be doing over the next 3 months. All of this is in the blog.
Daily Use of Removable Cast with EvenUp on the opposite side. Accommodation if more off weight bearing is needed.
Evaulation of Hormone Levels affecting Bone Healing
Daily 1500 mg Calcium and minimum 1000 units Vit D3.
Ice 15 min twice daily
Contrast Bathing every evening.
Shoe inserts that take the pressure off the sesamoids (under the first metatarsal), normally with good dancer's padding.
Spica Taping daily to restrict toe bend.
Activity Modification to minimize activities which reproduce pain.
MRI ASAP so we have one to compare to in 6 months if necessary.
No more cortisone shots please since they can delay healing and mask pain.
Sure hope this helps. Rich
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:57:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sesamoid Fractures
Wednesday, November 28, 2012
More On Pain: Lortimer Moseley
I have many patients in pain. It is a very disturbing, challenging, fascinating problem. This introductory lecture by Lortimer Moseley discusses how pain becomes it's own source of pain. The brain senses a danger that does not exist, or has existed in the past. It is a fascinating talk. Hopefully, for patients living in pain, it is the doorway to a better tomorrow. This is my prayer for you. It has great validity.
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:13:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Complex Regional Pain Syndrome, Pain
Tuesday, November 27, 2012
Sesamoid Injury S/P Surgery: Email Advice
Okay any help would be appreciated. 5 years ago I had a stress fracture in my sesamoid bone The one Under my second toe. I continued to work out on it and the pain went away.
Dr Blake's comment: You have two sesamoids, extra bones like kneecaps, under the ball of your foot (sub first metatarsal head). One of them is closer to the side of the foot (tibial or medial sesamoid) and the other is closer to the 2nd toe/metatarsal (lateral or fibular sesamoid). It was probably the lateral sesamoid that you injured.
You can imagine the irregularity in the sesamoid that is injured here showing bone remodeling and some break down.
About a year later it came back with a vengeance . I tried conservative therapies for a year. Boots, rest, massage, cortisone. Well the bone had necrosis and was completely removed.
Dr Blake's comment: Sound like you did the right thing. Once a sesamoid is removed, the other sesamoid is now more prone for injury and requires a lifetime of dancer's pads and/or orthotics to off weight the area.
A blue dancer's pad is easily applied to the shoe insert that came with the shoe to off weight the area.
Everything was fine and pain free. About 6 months ago I was barefoot trying to get a door open and kicked it hard. I fractured my other sesamoid in the same foot. So stupid of me! It is Once again not healing. I don't know what else to do. It hurts to walk. I am 29 very active and in good shape. I know having the other sesamoid removed can cause problems, but do I have another choice? For this current fracture have tried rest, ice, cortisone, and A boot. Any help would be appreciated. I am scared and frustrated.
Dr Blake's comment: Get an MRI now to document the bone edema in the sesamoid and possibly first metatarsal head. Create a pain free environment with boot and off weight pads, crutches if needed, possible RollaBout for prolonged standing, make sure your calcium and VitD are great, get a bone density if any suspicions about bone health are raised by your PCP, 3 times daily do 10 ice pack and/or contrast bathing, avoid cortisone and all anti-inflammatories (NSAIDS can slow down bone healing), use the next 3 months to create a good athletic and dress orthotic that protects well, get a bone stimulator to use daily, use the next 3 months to find shoes that limit the pressure on the area. Goals: 3 months to get the above accomplished and hopefully bring down the pain 90% or so, and use the next 6 months to gradually remove all the protection, one piece at a time biweekly. 6 months after the new MRI you get another MRI to document treatment success and decide how much more to do. I sure hope this gets your next 3 months organized. Keep me in the loop. Rich
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:38:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sesamoid Fracture Post Surgery
Sunday, November 25, 2012
Sesamoiditis: Email Advice
Hello Mr Blake,
first of all thank you very much for your blog, it's very informative.
My name's Pierre and I am based in London. Could it be please possible to have your opinion on my case?
3 months ago, I injured my foot playing football - what you guys call soccer ;). I saw a foot surgeon and after X-Ray and MRI he diagnosed Sesamoiditis.
At first, pain was mild, and I could walk as much as I wanted and could run for one hour at the gym. I couldn't play football though.
A podiatrist made me some special insoles, but I think it made my shoes too tight (they occupied too much space) or they had much "arch" thus putting pressure on toes (is it possible?) and the pain became much worse.
Dr Blake's comment: Definitely, any shoe insole, even designed with the best intentions can place the body's weight in the wrong place, or make the shoe too tight, or create motion when the best is to limit the motion for awhile, or a combination. With orthotic therapy, much experimentation can be needed, and the technician designing the inserts has to have some tricks up the sleeves, and be willing to experiment. There is just too many factors to consider, and even if known, sometimes you just have to take an educated guess on which direction to go. Golden Rule of Foot: If the insert makes the pain worse, remove immediately, re-introduce a few more times, and if still a bother, definitely modify and do not wear until modified.
I then spend a week in a removable cast, but I had to remove it because it was putting pressure on my foot / toe and was hurting even on a rest position.
Dr Blake's comments: The removable casts for sesamoid pain must have an off weight bearing float placed into them unless immediately comfortable. See if the brace shop or Doc's office can do that for you. I typically use 1/4 inch adhesive felt, and may have to increase to 1/2 inch by doubling over.
So i then used for a month crutches with no weight bearing
I have recently had another X-Ray and MRI (I have the CDs but I am not sure if I can attach the contents in an email). It showed the inflammation is worse than when I had the 1st X-Ray & MRI. I was told to rest and take Ibuprofen if pain for the next 3 months before another MRI and maybe operation.
Dr Blake's comment: Non weight bearing to reduce the pressure on the bottom of your foot will cause more stagnation in blood flow and the appearance of more inflammation. It is weight bearing that pushes it back toward your heart and out of your boot. So, the weight bearing cast is important as I mentioned above. I am assuming with this conversation that the MRI revealed no fracture.
I would have the following questions please:
Would you know a specialist for such injury based in London? No
Could you please give me your thoughts/recommendations: insoles, painkillers, calcium supplements, for how long can i walk, excercises / sport I can still do etc. any advice that you think would help basically.
Dr Blake's comment: Even though you are in the Immobilization/Anti-Inflammatory Phase of Rehabilitation, finding a good doc or pedorthist to design a comfortable insole that protects the sore area will be very helpful even if surgery is needed in the future. Part of any program is to create a painfree environment. This is normally with ice packs for 10 minutes three times a day. Anti-inflammatory medication is fine if there is no bone injury. Straight pain killers are typically reserved to allow patients to get a good night sleep when needed for that function. Calcium and VitD supplements when there is a fracture is discussed at length, but it is never a bad idea to make sure you get 1500mg calcium and 1000 units VitD3 daily between dietary intake and supplements. Most patients with pain in and around the sesamoids are limited to biking with the weight on the arch, and swimming, for cardio, and multiple gym routines or pilates and yoga type. You can always pick and choose the positions to avoid or minimize.
What do you think of the surgery: what's the success rate, how long after operation can I run again, are there any sports I won't be able to do again? Dr Blake's comment: What would they be operating on? Inflammation? Nothing you have said makes me want to go down that path right now!!!
Thanking you very much in advance for your time and attention. I would be very grateful if you could please send me your thoughts and a few advices, this injury is getting very frustrating I must acknowledge...
Yours faithfully, Pierre
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:18:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sesamoid Injuries
Unresponsive Plantar Fasciitis: Email Advice
Dr. Blake,
I had surgery on both of my big toes in Feb. 2009. It seems to be a hereditary issue since my brother had the same surgery a few years earlier. My father and grandmother had arthritis here too. I had cracked the toe while running for only 3 years. I cracked the bone on my left foot and it also had numerous bone spurs. Since the swelling did not go down after 6 weeks, surgery was performed. I had them xray the right foot, which also had spurs, so I opted to have both of them done. Yes, it was a painful surgery. I got a general and not a local so when I woke up I was in terrible pain. I blame the Dr. on that one.
Dr Blake's comment: I feel that the first surgery was rushed, since inadequate time was given to let the injury completely heal. 1 year with rehabilitation of a big toe joint injury before surgery is not abnormal. The delay helps with understanding of the problem as the various aspects of rehabilitation are put into play. Surprisingly, some do heal avoiding surgery and the possibility of surgical problems. The other foot surgery was in the realm of preventative surgery. You are getting surgery since the problem will only get worse down the line. I personally do not buy into that approach, although many smart people do. I believe surgery should be your last resort, and not done until your present disability warrants that. I know I have strong biases in this regard, and it is important that you know where I am coming from when giving advice.
In 2010, a year later, after training for a triathlon I developed Plantar Faciitis. It came on very slow but by 201i and now 2012 it has stopped me dead in my tracks. I have had pain for two years. I finally got an xray that showed a heel spur also. I have have tried everything, constant exercises, scraping, orthodics (OTC)and have stopped running. Nothing helps.
Question? Did my surgery have anything to do with this issue?I am afraid of cortizone shots. Should I have an MRI?
Dr Blake's comment: Big toe joint stiffness with loss of normal bending allows the plantar fascia to tighten and makes it prone for injury. You can usually combat that problem with plantar fascial stretching, especially the towel and rolling exercises described in my blog. You may be been tighter from your surgery, but maybe not. An MRI is needed to rule out a plantar fascial tear. Tears give unresponsive plantar fasciitis a bad name. Plantar Fasciitis normally gets better with stretching, icing, orthotics, activity modification, etc. If plantar fasciitis does not get better, I think of tear, fracture, nerve entrapment, bursitis. The MRI should definitely point you in the right direction.
I am 59 yrs. old. Running was my new hobby. It kept me off of antidepressant after my husbands death in 2006.
What do you suggest?
Pam
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Dr Blake's comments: Pam, there is nothing better than running for the adrenaline, feelings of emotional well being, etc. Get the MRI and hopefully a new course of action will be recommended. For right now, try biking in one of its many forms. It is the best at helping keep the leg strength up needed to get back into running. I wish you well. Rich
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 8:13:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Plantar Fasciitis
Thursday, November 22, 2012
Happy Thanksgiving from Dr Rich Blake
I hope you enjoy a classic. Definitely podiatry related with the kicking of a football. Happy Thanksgiving!! Dr Blake
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
I am very thankful for my great family and friends, for my health and house, for my faith and job. I hope this Thanksgiving finds you with much to be thankful for, and much to look forward to in the coming months and year.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:18:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Humor, Thanksgiving
Sunday, November 18, 2012
Budin Splint Modifications for Sore Toes/Metatarsals
Hi Dr. Blake and I hope you are staying dry!
You asked that I email you with how I’m doing. We met on Tuesday, November 6th regarding pain on my right foot at the base of the second toe. You prescribed a pad with an elastic loop to wear around the second toe along with some stretching and icing.
It’s now been 11 days and I can’t say I’m felling much different. The pad is irritating to wear with sneakers or boots because when I slip my foot into the shoe, the elastic loop gets pulled down and irritates the skin at the base of the toe. Sometimes I have to take it off for a while.
I find that when I wear my clogs with an open heel, however, it is much more comfortable. I don’t usually wear clogs but it’s the only shoe that I can wear the pad pretty much all day without discomfort. I’ve been pretty religious about wearing the pad regardless.
I’ve been bad about the icing. I’ve only iced twice since seeing you.
I do the stretches but not daily.
So I haven’t been the perfect patient.
What do you suggest?
Thank you.
Dr Blake's Response:
Hey Alicia (name change), Thanks for the update. Try getting a digital gel pad at the Sports Shop to put under the splint. It is a long finger looking structure, that you can cut into 3rds to place over the one toe. I have also attached the link to Silipos company that makes these things. Then you can put the splint on tighter even. You can also use paper tape on the top of your foot to tape the splint down so it will move less. Attached is the note I wrote. Definitely ice twice daily, since the pain you are feeling is inflammation. Remember to stretch and perhaps buy some Yoga Toes so that we can begin to introduce them. Sure hope this helps. Rich PS If the icing does not bring down the inflammation along, then we can have you ice and go to PT. They would love to work on your foot.
Budin Splint is a powerful stabilizer of the toe joints. When the elastic band is irritative, a digital gel pad can be used initially over the toe, or just tape to hold down the band and prevent it from moving.
Alicia is a return patient I have not seen for about 4 years. Nancy has pain in her right foot and second toe area for about 6 months. Her pain level on a scale of 0 to 10 is about 4 or 5. She is taking some Advil for the pain. Has 2 pairs of orthotics which both have reverse Morton's extensions made by Dr. David Hannaford. She is a 59-year-old. She is 5 feet, 128 pounds. Her activities that she likes are West Coast Swing, water aerobics, Zumba and dance aerobics. She would like to enjoy them without discomfort are her main goals.
SHE HAS NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.
Medicines she takes a regular basis include
1. Valtrex.
2. Calcium.
3. Vitamin C.
4. Vitamin D.
5. DHA.
She has had no past hospitalizations or surgery. She is on no special diet.
On my examination, I found someone who had pain in the 2nd metatarsophalangeal joint plantarly. It is sore on maximum plantar flexion of the joint, not dorsiflexion. She has full range of motion. There is no evidence of instability. She has always had a short second toe and I think that short second toe may be raising up just a little bit or the 1st and 3rd toes may be going under it. In either case it would trap the second metatarsal head against the ground and cause irritation. If you couple that with her reverse Morton's or dancer's pad, that puts the weight off the first and onto the second, so as part of her treatment I reduced the padding under the 2nd metatarsal head.
Alicia's 2nd toe is much like this. When the toe is being held up in the air by being above other toes, and can not physically get down to it's normal level, pain develops under the metatarsal toe joint. The pressure at push off stays too long in the one place. The splint is designed to pull the toe down into more normal alignment.
DIAGNOSES:
1. Capsulitis symptoms, right 2nd metatarsophalangeal joint, 726.90.
2. Right hammertoe deformity, 735.4.
PLAN: So today orthotic devices were evaluated and on the right side the area under the 2nd metatarsal head of the reverse Morton's extension was removed. I encouraged her to ice twice a day, encouraged her to stretch the toe in a plantigrade direction without pain. I may go to YogaToes once it is less painful. I gave her a prescription for 2 Budin splints and this will be designed to hold the toe down. She is advised that she can easily adjust the bottom if there is any pressure.
http://www.silipos.com/products/orthopedics/Digital-Care
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:05:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Budin Splints, Metatarsal Pain, Metatarsalgia
Soles4Souls: A Great Place to give your Shoes
The website below will let you know how to donate your shoes. Thank you.
http://www.soles4souls.org/about/locations.html
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 1:09:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Soles4Souls
Saturday, November 17, 2012
Graded Motor Imagery: Chronic Pain Tool and Loss of Body Sensation Tool
I would like to introduce a fascinating topic called "Graded Motor Imagery". I have several patients who have used the technique to help with their pain or nerve syndromes, several patients who have been exposed to it, and many more that I will now expose and emphasize as part of their pain treatment. The Noi Group has a well organized website to let you get started. The photos below are part of the process of laterality--recognizing which side of the body a photo is taken. Amazingly, in many nerve injuries, we lose the ability of our nervous system to process this. I hope the videos, websites, and photos are a good enough start to help you or a loved one in the overwhelming process of healing when all seems to be losted. It is many times that the spouse or friend must help the patient take the initial steps towards healing. This is a process that can be done alone, or helped tremendously with another.
http://www.gradedmotorimagery.com/
http://www.noigroup.com/en/Category/BT
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15109523
These photos are part of the first and very vital steps in Graded Motor Imagery called Laterality. The links above contain the website to login and begin the process now. The patient is asked to identify which foot is being shown, and later asked to imagine their foot in that position.
David Butler is a physiotherapist in Australia. After you hear this 40 minute presentation broken in 4 parts, you will want to have him over and make him your best friend. What a character!! I believe the main parts of this process are adequately introduced.
Here a patient with complex regional pain syndrome explains her use of mirror therapy in a touching manner.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:51:00 PM 5 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Chronic Pain, Complex Regional Pain Syndrome, Graded Motor Imagery, Loss of Sensation, Phantom Limb Pain, RSD
More Decorative Canes: Why Not have some Fun!!!
http://caneexpressions.com/
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:56:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Canes Decorative
Monday, November 12, 2012
Chronic Ankle Injury: Email Advice
Dear Dr. Blake,
I came across your blog while searching for an answer to my ankle problem; I am wondering if you can give me some idea?
I am a 22 year old female, BMI is in the normal category; I injured my right ankle when I was 12 (jumping down the stairs). From what I can remember, it was really painful but I didn't do anything (compress with ice etc) and I only went to the doctors some times after. I think the doctor said one of the ligaments is torn. I have been wearing ankle braces and minimize sports activity (though still keep on running occasionally). There is not any problem, although sometimes in the morning when I get up, I feel the joint is a bit "tight" or sore but not up to a level that is painful and the symptom is gone soon after.
Dr Blake's comment: This is fairly common for joint injuries. The symptoms may plateau below perfect, but definitely manageable. There is probably some scar tissue in the wrong place, but the disability of removing it is far worse than the disability of leaving it alone.
However, 2 months ago when I woke up (was woke up by the pain actually) the pain is unbearable, even if I did not touch the ankle. Standing was not possible and I had to use crutches. I went to the doctors and was diagonosed arithritis, happened for no reason (the blood test was normal). I took Naproxen sodium and Ranitidine tablet for 2-3 days before I can walk independently without crutches.
Dr Blake's comment: This may or may not be separate from the old injury. Sleeping in the wrong position for an extended period of time can cause the joint lining to be pinched. The joint lining is full of nerve endings and when and when irritated are very unhappy. This pain normally goes down over 4-5 days, unless some extra scar tissue is stuck. The treatment for this acute type of pain is icing for 96 hours 3 to 4 times per day to reduce the inflammation. Arthritis always sounds bad and permanent and dark, but actually means joint inflammation. Yes, you had joint inflammation. The rest of the seriousness has to be followed and possibly explored with imaging.
What I am not sure now is that my ankle is swollen, without pain. I do not notice if it is always like this (I know it is not completely right but never compare the size between left and right ankles). Since the incident 2 months ago, I stopped every sports and only walk and swim. I also have ankle braces on all the time no matter what. The swelling is positioned at the anterior part between Tibia and Talus bones and also a small part above the ankle. It appears to be twice bigger than my left ankle (normal one).
Dr Blake's comment: Pain in and around the ankle causing swelling. Long after the pain is gone, and the disability, the swelling can remain and remain. Up to 4-6 months longer than the pain. Ankle braces can hold in the swelling. Inactivity can also hold in the swelling. It is best to judge what you should and shouldn't do, and what you should and shouldn't wear based on pain. Remember the wise old adage of "Listen To Your Body". It was not look at the swelling of your body for good reasons.
What do you think might be the cause to the swelling? And would you suggest to go for an operation or any alternatives? Is it possible to avoid surgery at all in this circumstances?
Dr Blake's comments: You irritated your ankle from sleeping funny, and this caused the initial pain. The pain was intense enough that your body tried to heal something by bringing in swelling. Now the swelling is trapped. Twice daily ice pack the ankle for 20 minutes, and once day do contrast bathes. See the blog for info on these techniques. Avoid tight fitting socks that leave a skin indentation. Your chance of surgery is less than 1% at this time, unless further info comes forward. You have surgery for unrelenting pain, never for swelling. Hope this helps. Rich
I am grateful for any comments that you have! Thank you for your time in advance.
Sincerely,
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:09:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Swelling After Ankle Sprains
Friday, November 9, 2012
Health Tip: Take More Breaks (Definitely Something I Desperately Need to Do)
Here is a wonderful post from my friends at Learn Stuff. After reading this, I felt that they were speaking to me. Hope it does not fall on deaf ears. Dr Rich Blake
LearnStuff.com
Created by: http://www.learnstuff.com/">LearnStuff.com
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 7:15:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Health Tip, Take More Breaks
San Francisco Giants and Bunions
Listen to the San Francisco Giants Post Season Highlights
http://soundcloud.com/dj-raw-b/sf-giants-2012-postseason
Hello,
I have started to notice the beginnings of bunions on both feet. I am a 30 year old female and I was curious to see if there were any preventative measures I could start so that they don't get worse.
Thanks!
Dr Blake's comment:
Here is the link to my blog post that reviews that most common preventative measures for bunion deformities. Hope they are helpful to you. Rich
http://www.drblakeshealingsole.com/2012/07/how-to-conservatively-treat-bunions.html
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 7:03:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Bunions, San Francisco Giants
Hallux Rigidus And Abnormal Skin Discoloration: Email Advice
Hello Dr. Blake,
I am a 56 year old female. I have been dealing with hallux rigidus for three years.
Dr Blake's comment: Hallux Rigidus is defined as stiffness in the Big Toe Joint of less than 30 degrees of dorsiflexion (the bend of the joint as we try and push off). Normally the big toe joint (called the first metatarsal phalangeal joint) is between 75-90 degrees of bend. We normally need 75 degrees to comfortably function in sports, and 60 degrees for normal walking. This is a common measurement taken.
Tonight my pain level is around 7.
Dr Blake's comment: My favorite post on this blog is called Good Pain vs Bad Pain. Good Pain is considered pain levels of 0-2 on a pain scale of 0-10. 10 means you are in very serious pain and 1 means you are annoyed but still smiling since the San Francisco Giants just beat the Detroit Tigers in the 2012 World Series. 7 is getting very bad and we need to fix ASAP.
My left big toe joint is totally frozen. It swells. It bruises. I walk funny. Since Sunday my knee on that side is sorta clicking/popping when I walk. My ankle swells.
My foot looks awful. It’s like it is continuously bruised around the joint, along the base of the toes and on the top of the foot though I think some might be due to meds that I take and sun exposure and the rest to reinjuring it over and over. It’s ugly.
Dr Blake's comment: I definitely agree that the discoloration is something different than the normal Hallux Rigidus. It seems to especially involve the first 3 toes and could be some form of arthritic or vascular problem. Is the temperature normal? If it is colder, I would say see a vascular specialist, if warmer, an arthritis specialist. Is the pain all from the big toe joint, or are other joints involved? All Anti-Inflammatory Medication can cause abnormal bleeding. Simple blood tests can tell us if you have any abnormal bleeding problems.
I have never worn high heels in my life because I am tall. For the past five years I have been limited to flats. Three years ago I fell off of chair and came down on that toe. I already had damage there but this time it was the worse. When I went into the E.R. they thought it was a broken bone but found it was arthritis and bone fragments. They referred me to a podiatrist. I let it heal and did not go into the podiatrist until I damaged it again last winter. This time I had pain throughout the foot and was put on steroids for soft tissue damage.
Dr Blake's comments: You are not going to get any absolution of your sins from me. When you keep ignoring the pain, the pain can become it's own problem. The skin discoloration could be a sign that your pain has been out of control too long. Prolonged pain can cause vasospasm (loss of blood flow) since the nerves feed the blood vessels. The loss of blood flow for too long can cause rebound increase blood flow which can cause skin discorations or ugliness!!! The vascular specialist would probably be the correct person in that scenario to see.
During this first visit to the podiatrist he did x-ray my foot and said my joint had arthritis. He gave me naproxen and sent me to have an insert made. At that time the top part of foot over the big toe joint and then along the other toes was bruising. Old looking yellowish yet darker in some spots.
Dr Blake's comments: Yellow, of course, is deep blood and the darker stains are the most superficial blood. Both of these colors are from the constant beating up on this or these joints. But, could indicate a bleeding problem. Please have some blood work including the standard CBC with Differential.
This bruising gets better and then worse when I hurt the joint accidently or wear shoes that are too soft. Anyway, I never got the insert made. This past year the pain has been getting worse. This past weekend I wore new boots with the same heel as the other boots I wear. I wore them around for around five hours and it got increasing more painful to walk. When I got home my foot was throbbing. I took off the boot and it felt like my joint was coming apart. It hurt and the area around the joint swelled as well as my ankle. I did walk though and by Monday the next morning it was somewhat better. I was limping and it was really sore and I am yet today.
Dr Blake's comment: I know when you have something for a long time, you just want to ignore it and live life. However, this problem is crying out to be treated seriously, and you must start with creating a pain free environment for it, and keeping it pain free for 3 to 6 months. This probably will mean a removable cast, like the Anklizer, to reduce the bend in the joint. Perhaps just a shoe like the MBT will produce less bend to minimize the discomfort. In this task however, you should be armed with good protective orthotics and the skill of spica taping.
Fortunately I had an appointment with the podiatrist that same day Monday. Again I went in and he did x rays and said it was bone on bone.
Dr Blake's comment: Bone on Bone means that the cartilage (pillow) covering the bone is gone and the bone nerve endings are exposed. Pressure from the opposite side of the joint produces pain since the pillow is gone. Cartilage has no nerve endings, so in a normal joint you do not feel the joint moving. In an arthritic joint, with exposed bone on one side of the joint hitting exposed bone on the other side of the joint, the nerve endings produce a lot of pain with this pressure.
While examining my foot he asked me if I was diabetic. I told him I was not. He said my foot looked the way a diabetic foot looks. He was referring to the discoloration/bruising. I told him about the meds I take (nipedipine and hydrochlorthiazide) and what I thought some of the discolorations were along with injury. He really did not say any more about that. He then gave me three options. Do nothing, joint replacement or fusion. I asked him what he would do and he said if it was him he would probably do the fusion. He set me up to have the surgery on November 15th.
Dr Blake's comment: If you are pre-diabetic, signifying possibly poor healing, you need to get that checked out before any type of elective surgery. Check if your drugs for high blood pressure can cause easy bleeding. Definitely, you need you internist to work things up and make sure you can have surgery in the first place, or do you need to get your circulation, blood sugars, platelets, etc, evaluated?
I asked him if there was anything I could in the meantime meaning wrapping…something. He said just carry on til then.
That’s a long way away. I have stairs in my house and my knee is making a sound/feeling every time I go from my room down to the living area. I am limping up and down and not putting any weight on that area.
I don’t want surgery but I know something needs to be done because of the pain and the swelling. Right now I want to call my podiatrist and ask him for a boot just so I don't have to hurt that area anymore but I am leery as he did not recommend this on Monday.
Dr Blake's comment: Doctors are human, at least some of them. You need to feel comfortable with any doctor who is making major decisions about the rest of your life. If you do not feel comfortable calling him, switch to another doctor. But, I would encourage you to stay with him and call. Doctors can not remember everything in the short time of the visit. Golden Rule of Foot: If a doctor does not discuss something you think is important, it is important, and they were just thinking of too many things at the time. So ask!!!
Do you have any ideas? I want to walk again. I want to exercise. I feel like a cripple. I am active though not athletic. I hate the way the skin keeps being so discolored as if I broken bones. Please give some me some advice. I am wits end.
The one good thing. When I lay down I have no pain. It's sore but it does not hurt. But I can't lay down for the months or years...can I? Nope got to work.
Thanks for your time
Linda (name changed for privacy)
Dr Blake's initial response:
Linda, I will have more time this weekend to explore your email. Definitely you should be in a removable boot for the next 3 months while you analyze the pros and cons of various surgeries. I will help. I need photos of your foot, copies of your MRI and xrays. I prefer you cancel surgery while you really think this out. Rich You also need to have a good vascular workup to make sure you will heal from any surgery.
Hello again,
Thanks so much for replying.
You do not know how much I do not want to let anyone see my feet. I looked at pictures on your website and mostly their feet look healthy. Mine look disgusting. If only they could just look and feel halfway good i would be happy.
I took two pictures with my cell phone. Not good light. I can get better pictures too.
I also have a nail fungus which I asked the Podiatrist to treat, he wants to prescribe the antifungus meds which I refused at this time. i wanted to read more about them. And I wanted the joint pain taken care of first.
I can request xrays but never had an MRI on my foot.
The tips of my toes are pink. There is no bruising on any of them. I wore open top shoes up to last month and both tops of my feet are discolored. The right foot top is dark like a permanent tan but not bruised like the left. The bruising was not as bad before I wore the boots on Sunday...anything constraining makes the swelling and bruising worse. If I know it is nothing I can live with discoloration but what is causing it? The damage to tissue? And i want to believe part of it is meds. I also take synthyroid.
I realize it is late and I don't expect any answers... I just have to ask the questions.
Thanks again
Linda
Dr Blake's response:
Hey Linda, So here are the steps you need to do if possible over the next few months. Get a vascular workup to make sure you do not have any bleeding problems that would interfere with surgery. Get an MRI to document the status of cartilage destruction on the joint. Get another opinion after these on the viability of conservative care vs joint cleanout vs joint replacement vs joint fusion. Definitely get into a removable boot with EvenUp, get orthotics that seem to place your weight into the center of your foot, learn to spica tape, and ice twice per day. I sure hope this has been helpful. Rich
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:05:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Hallux Rigidus, Skin Discoloration
Monday, November 5, 2012
Fractured Sesamoid Bone: Email Advice
Hi Dr. Blake,
I have been dealing with a fractured seisamoid for several years now. I have seen orthopedic surgeons and a podiatrist that works with an Ortho group. I have had x-rays and an MRI confirming that it is fractured. I wore a walking boot for 5 very long months. I have taken anti-inflammatory medications, I have had an annual cortisone injection (which last about 6-8 months and then I tough it out). I have tried to have custom orthotics made, and every time they make me a new pair, it causes another area of the foot so much pain that it's worse because two areas hurt. I have heard a metatarsal sleeve is helpful.
I used to be a recreational runner, but have not had that pleasure for about three years now. I do live near the mountains in Colorado, and I love to hike. I have found that shoes with stiff and rigid soles help, and I have stopped wearing heels except for an occasional special occasion like a Christmas party. I have a VERY high arch.
My doctor is at the point of surgery, but I am terrified that all I will be doing is trading one pain issue for a host of pain issues, and that I won't even be able to hike. I have NEVER read anything good about that surgery or it's success.
Is it possible to get a shoe insert made that is very hard & stiff to make even softer soled shoes more rigid?
I am desperate!
Sheila
Dr Blake's response:
Dear Sheila,
First of all, the biggest question after this amount of time is: Do you have pain from a sesamoid fracture, or do you have pain from arthritis that has developed within the joint, or a combination of both? If the pain is from the fracture, removing the bone will give you less disability than you have. If some of the pain is coming from arthritis that is settling in the joint (called Hallux Limitus Syndrome), than the surgery just to remove a broken sesamoid, may be unsuccessful, and gives sesamoid removal a bad name. The diagnosis is somewhat clinical, and 2 very good men in Colorado are friends of mine, both podiatrists-- Dr William O'Halloran and Dr Thomas Shonka. Please look them up. You need a recent MRI of the big toe joint, and some current xrays.
When a patient decides that they are going to have surgery, then they have cortisone shots. Golden Rule of Foot: Never have long acting Cortisone Shots into a Joint in an attempt to avoid surgery. The cortisone will mask the pain, but could speed up the breakdown of the joint. I you get an MRI, I would be happy to help review for you.
Yes, Dr Shonka and/or Dr O'Halloran can make, or someone they recommend, a great shoe insert and recommend a particular shoe, that stiffens the area, decreasing the bend, that helps your symptoms. But, please, try to have someone evaluate the possibilities of the pain being solely fracture vs joint breakdown. This is in the most important question to be answered now.
I am hopeful this info helps you somewhat. Rich Blake
Dr Blake's comment:
Dear Sheila, The most important question right now is whether you have injured the joint (a condition called Hallux Rigidus). The three possible reasons you could have injured the joint are A) time with an unhealing injury, B) using cortisone to mask the pain (especially repeatedly), and C) the fractured sesamoid injuring the first metatarsal since the fragments irritate the joint.
I would recommend you see Dr William O'Halloran or Dr Thomas Shonka in Colorado. Both are wise podiatrists, both are my friends. You should have a recent MRI and xrays. The joint can be easily assessed. If damaged, the surgery discussion is focused on removing the injured sesamoid and somewhat fixing the joint.
Definitely, get this info first and see what you are dealing with. I do not recommend sesamoid fracture removal without an MRI. When the joint is healthy, and the symptoms and story as long as yours, I would have no problem recommending surgery. The surgery is not perfect, the disability is 90% better than before surgery, but you could be in the 10%. I would not hesitate to have surgery and take my chances after this long.
If the joint is unhealthy, you need to assess pre-op anyway. You still remove the sesamoid, but the joint must be helped also. It may require a second surgery. You may require 2 different procedures at the same time. There are several possibilities, which all stem from the initial MRI.
I hope this gets you pointed in the right direction. Rich Blake
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:08:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sesamoid Fractures
Sunday, November 4, 2012
ShearBan: Great to Reduce Friction at the Bottom of the Foot
When trying to eliminate friction from the bottom of the foot, especially in cases of ulcerations, scars, calluses, and sore points, ShearBan and Engo are 2 great products. Here I am using ShearBan, with 1/8th plastazote or memory foam, with an accommodative pad to reduce both the vertical load and the shearing load (friction) on a developing ulcer. This patient has already had toes amputated from PAD, or peripheral arterial disease, and any developing sore must be protected as well as possible.
1/8th inch Memory foam (plastazote) from JMS Plastics to replace the shoe insert to reduce the vertical load on the sore area.
The developing sore, which has not yet ulcerated, is marked with Wet and Wild Lipstick
The shoe insert is placed into the shoe, and then the foot with the lipstick, is carefully placed. The patient is asked to walk a few feet. The first mark is always from the foot getting into the shoe, with the mark closest to the toes being where the sore is located.
A small piece of ShearBan is placed on this area on the top surface of the memory foam in direct contact with the sore area. You want to reduce the shearing force in as small area as possible since you do not want the foot sliding too much in the shoe.
Here 1/16 inch neolon, also from JMS Plastics, is placed on the bottom surface of the pad to off weight the sore.
Here the 2 glued sided are joined accomplishing the off weight bearing. So, with the above treatment, this shoe insert has reduced vertical load, reducing friction or the shearing force, and off weighted the sore area. One of these functions should help prevent pain and further loss of limb.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:02:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Engo, ShearBan, Sore Pressure Spots Bottom Feet, Ulcerations
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction: A Useful Brace to help in the Rehabilitation
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction is a devastating problem. The earlier you start to support the ankle as the arch begins to collapse inward, the better. Most ankle braces tend to pronate the arch, definitely holding it in the wrong direction in an effort to stablize post ankle sprain. Recently, one of my patients saw an orthopedist who recommended this brace. I have never seen it before, but was impressed. I am not totally sure of the success of the air bag, but the basic design of the brace will work to fight against the arch collapse and inward collapse of the ankle. If we combine this brace with supportive orthotics, varus or medial shoe or insert wedging, stable shoes, an anti-inflammatory program, and of utmost importance a gradual strengthening program, then the patient may have a fighting chance.
http://www.betterbraces.com/aircast-airlift-pttd-brace?mr:trackingCode=02C84769-100F-E111-804A-A8C6AF702B72&mr:referralID=NA&mr:adType=pla&gclid=CLG46oCxn7MCFY9_Qgodr18Atw
Since you need to get out of the brace at times, or if the brace is not a good fit for you, posterior tibial tendon taping is still a great option. It takes a good 10 times with any taping technique to learn the right tension to put on the tape and the right variation that works for you.
Here are a photo from my patient showing the air bag placed in the arch. Since many posterior tibial tendon dysfunction patients have significant arch pain, this may or may not cushion the interface between the brace and the shoe or orthotic device.
The Aircast AirLift PTTD Brace has a airbag for under the arch. I am showing the medial side (arch side) of the foot. The main strap of the brace was pulled forward to show the air bag, but will pull up on the arch. The brace is taller than a standard ankle brace, and you are in control how much to inflate the bag and how much tension you put on the strap. Standing next to the brace is my orthotic device. This device by itself made her arch too sore and even though it controlled the pronation motion and protected the foot, it could not be made comfortable. The combination of brace and orthotic is working well right now.
Here is a reminder video of the posterior tibial tendon strengthening exercises.
Since you need to get out of the brace at times, or if the brace is not a good fit for you, posterior tibial tendon taping is still a great option. It takes a good 10 times with any taping technique to learn the right tension to put on the tape and the right variation that works for you.
Here are a photo from my patient showing the air bag placed in the arch. Since many posterior tibial tendon dysfunction patients have significant arch pain, this may or may not cushion the interface between the brace and the shoe or orthotic device.
The Aircast AirLift PTTD Brace has a airbag for under the arch. I am showing the medial side (arch side) of the foot. The main strap of the brace was pulled forward to show the air bag, but will pull up on the arch. The brace is taller than a standard ankle brace, and you are in control how much to inflate the bag and how much tension you put on the strap. Standing next to the brace is my orthotic device. This device by itself made her arch too sore and even though it controlled the pronation motion and protected the foot, it could not be made comfortable. The combination of brace and orthotic is working well right now.
--
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:35:00 AM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Posterior Tibial Dysfunction, Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction Brace
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Translate
Dr Blake's Book
Follow by Email
Blog Archive
► 2019 (36)
► April (3)
► March (12)
► February (8)
► January (13)
► 2018 (148)
► December (11)
► November (2)
► October (10)
► September (13)
► August (6)
► July (3)
► June (22)
► May (8)
► April (18)
► March (20)
► February (4)
► January (31)
► 2017 (159)
► December (10)
► November (8)
► October (17)
► September (7)
► August (17)
► July (22)
► June (17)
► May (19)
► April (13)
► March (5)
► February (10)
► January (14)
► 2016 (189)
► December (21)
► November (24)
► October (6)
► September (19)
► August (11)
► July (16)
► June (15)
► May (28)
► April (25)
► March (9)
► February (11)
► January (4)
► 2015 (153)
► December (5)
► November (14)
► October (22)
► September (5)
► August (11)
► July (28)
► June (7)
► May (4)
► April (11)
► March (5)
► February (15)
► January (26)
► 2014 (218)
► December (10)
► November (17)
► October (19)
► September (17)
► August (14)
► July (17)
► June (20)
► May (11)
► April (17)
► March (31)
► February (29)
► January (16)
► 2013 (289)
► December (9)
► November (24)
► October (31)
► September (19)
► August (31)
► July (30)
► June (41)
► May (22)
► April (13)
► March (16)
► February (28)
► January (25)
▼ 2012 (262)
► December (22)
▼ November (22)
Fractured Sesamoid: Email Advice
More On Pain: Lortimer Moseley
Sesamoid Injury S/P Surgery: Email Advice
Sesamoiditis: Email Advice
Unresponsive Plantar Fasciitis: Email Advice
Happy Thanksgiving from Dr Rich Blake
Budin Splint Modifications for Sore Toes/Metatarsa...
Soles4Souls: A Great Place to give your Shoes
Graded Motor Imagery: Chronic Pain Tool and Loss o...
More Decorative Canes: Why Not have some Fun!!!
Chronic Ankle Injury: Email Advice
Health Tip: Take More Breaks (Definitely Something...
San Francisco Giants and Bunions
Hallux Rigidus And Abnormal Skin Discoloration: Em...
Fractured Sesamoid Bone: Email Advice
ShearBan: Great to Reduce Friction at the Bottom o...
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction: A Useful Brac...
Designing Orthotic Devices from Afar
The Start of the New Basketball Season: Dr Blake D...
Modified Towel Stretch for Plantar Fasciitis for s...
Calcaneal Apophysitis: Sever's Disease Email Corre...
Calcaneal (Heel Bone) Stress Fractures: A Cause of...
► October (14)
► September (33)
► August (21)
► July (23)
► June (17)
► May (25)
► April (26)
► March (20)
► February (20)
► January (19)
► 2011 (244)
► December (24)
► November (17)
► October (24)
► September (11)
► August (29)
► July (18)
► June (20)
► May (21)
► April (22)
► March (20)
► February (22)
► January (16)
► 2010 (197)
► December (23)
► November (33)
► October (25)
► September (13)
► August (27)
► July (25)
► June (11)
► May (13)
► April (21)
► March (6)
Popular Posts
Why do toenails become more curved as we Age?
Toe Nail Fungus: 30 Minute Vinegar Soaking
Achilles StretchIng: One Stretch to Avoid (when you have achilles tendinitits or plantar fasciitis)
Supinators: Wedges for the Shoes (Email correspondence)
Sesamoid Fractures: Advice when not healing well
Foot Pain in 8 year old: Email Advice
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction/Tendinitis
For Podiatrists: Biomechanical Discussion Points #1
Cortisone Shots: The Thought Process Behind
Cartiva Joint Implant vs Arthrosurface: Present Thoughts
AvantLink
About Me
Dr Richard Blake
San Francisco, CA, United States
I have been a podiatrist for 34 years now and I am excited about sharing what I have learned on this blog. I love to exercise, especially basketball and hiking. I love to travel. I am very happily married to Patty, and have 2 wonderful sons Steve and Chris, a great daughter in law Clare, my new grandson Henry, and a grand dog Felix.
View my complete profile
AAPSM for Sports Podiatrists
AAPSM - American Academy of Podiatric Sports Medicine
Dr Blake's Typical Orthotic Response
Labels
2nd Metatarsal Fracture (1)
2nd Metatarsal Pain (5)
2nd Toe Dislocation (2)
2nd Toe Problems (2)
3rd Metatarsal Capsulitis (1)
4th Metatarsal Stress Fracture (1)
5th Metatarsal Fractures (4)
5th Toe Dislocation (1)
A.R.T. (1)
AAPSM (1)
AAPSM Lecture 4/11 (1)
AAPSM Referral Source for Good Podiatrists (2)
Abductor Hallucis Strengthening for Bunions (2)
Accessory Navicular (26)
Accommodative Padding (3)
Accupuncture (2)
Achilles (8)
Achilles Strengthening (8)
Achilles Stretching (7)
Achilles Stretching Principles (2)
Achilles Tendinitis (7)
Achilles Tendon Cortisone Shots (1)
Achilles Tendon Injuries (11)
Achilles Tendon Partial Tear MRI Image (2)
Achilles Tendon Ruptures (9)
Achilles Tendon Surgery (2)
Achilles Tendon Tightness (1)
Achilles Tightness Measurement (1)
Achilles Treatment with Soleus Roll (1)
Acute Ankle Sprain Treatment Advice (1)
Acute Injury Treatment (1)
Alcohol Injections for Nerve Pain (7)
Alpha Lipoic Acid (1)
Anatomy of the Foot (1)
Anatomy of the Foot and Ankle Video (1)
Ankle Brace Waterproof (1)
Ankle Braces (3)
Ankle Foot Orthotic (1)
Ankle Fracture (1)
Ankle Images Cartilage Damage (1)
Ankle Instability (5)
Ankle Pain (1)
Ankle Reconstruction Surgery (1)
Ankle Replacement Surgery (1)
Ankle Snapping (1)
Ankle Sprain (4)
Ankle Sprain Exercises (1)
Ankle Sprain Treatment Videos (1)
Ankle Sprains (14)
Ankle Strengthening Exercises (7)
Ankle Strengthening Video (1)
Ankle Xrays (1)
Anti-Inflammatory Medication (2)
Appointment with Dr Rich Blake (1)
Arch Heights (1)
Arch Strengthening Exercises (1)
Arch Supports Over the Counter (1)
Arch Taping (3)
Arm Swing (1)
Arthritis (when is it time to stop?) (1)
Ask The Podiatrist Segment (2)
Babinski (1)
Back and Foot Connection (1)
Back Exercises for Curves (1)
Balance (2)
Balance Exercises (5)
Balance Improvement with Orthoses (1)
Ball of Foot Pain (12)
Ballet (4)
Ballet Sesamoid Injury (1)
Ballet Shoes (1)
BAPS for Foot and Ankle Strengthening and Range of Motion (1)
Bar Method Intro (1)
Barefoot Running (6)
Basketball (3)
Big Toe Joint Fusion (4)
Big Toe Joint Injury (7)
Big Toe Joint Motion Evaluation (1)
Big Toe Joint MRI (1)
Big Toe Joint Pain (12)
Big Toe Pain (5)
Biker's Knee (1)
Biomechanics (11)
Biomechanics for the Podiatrist (4)
Biomechanics of Running (4)
Biomechanics of the Foot (1)
Biomechanics of Walking (2)
Bipartite Sesamoid (2)
Blake Inverted Device (5)
Blisters (6)
Bone Density Test (2)
Bone Scan for Diagnosis of Bone Pain (4)
Bone Spur Big Toe Joint (2)
Bone Spurs (1)
Bone Stimulators for Slow Fractures (3)
Breaking Into Orthotic Devices (1)
Bromstrom Procedure (1)
Buddy Taping (2)
Budin Splints (5)
Bunion and Treatment Recommendations (2)
Bunion Evaluation (4)
Bunion Exercise (1)
Bunion Night Splints (1)
Bunion Padding (1)
Bunion Self Help Tips (3)
Bunion Stages (1)
Bunion Surgery PreOp Considerations (1)
Bunion Surgery Problems (2)
Bunion Taping (1)
Bunion Treatment Tips (1)
Bunion Xray Evaluation (2)
Bunions (27)
Bunions and Shoe Recommendations (1)
Bursitis (6)
Bursitis Heel (1)
Bursitis on MRI imaging (2)
Buttock Pain (1)
Buzzing Sensation Feet (1)
Calcaneal Apophysitis (4)
Calcaneal Fracture (3)
Calcaneal Stress Fracture (2)
Calcaneo-Navicular Coalition (1)
Calcific Achilles Tendinitis (1)
Calf Atrophy (1)
Calf Pain (2)
Calf Strain (1)
Calf Tightness (1)
Calluses (4)
Calmare Pain Therapy (10)
Cane Decorative (1)
Canes (2)
Capsulitis of the 2nd and 3rd Metatarsal Phalangeal Joints (1)
Carbon Graphite Steel for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Cartilage Supplementation Injectable (1)
Cast Disease (1)
Cast Immobilization Rehab (3)
Casts/Splints/Braces (2)
Cerebral Palsy Patient (2)
Cervical Spine Myelopathy (1)
Chairs: Leading to Inflexibility (1)
Charcot (1)
Charcot Shoes (1)
Checklist Gait Evaluation (1)
Cheilectomy for Hallux Rigidus (5)
Cheilectomy Post Op (2)
Chi Running (1)
Children's Feet (2)
Children's Flatfeet (1)
Children's Health Article (1)
Children's Shoes (1)
Chronic Pain (6)
Chronic Pain treatment with Opioids (1)
Cipro Negative Impact Tendons (2)
Clonus (1)
Cluffy Wedge (1)
Coalition (1)
Coban Wraps (1)
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Cold Feet (3)
Cold Therapy (3)
Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (21)
Compression Pumps for Swelling (1)
Contrast Bathing (2)
Corns (1)
Correct Toes (2)
Cortisone (2)
Cortisone Injections Near Tendons Are Potentially Dangerous (2)
Cortisone Shot Adverse Effect (2)
cortisone shots (2)
Cramping at Night (1)
Creating a Pain Free Environment (1)
CRPS (27)
CRPS emergency room protocol (1)
CRPS patients needing shots (1)
CRPS Study 2016 seeking participants (1)
Crutches (1)
Crutches Weaning Off (1)
Cryotherapy (1)
Custom Orthotic Devices (3)
Custom Shoes (1)
Cycling (5)
Dance Injury (1)
Dancer's Knee (1)
Dancer's Pads (2)
Deep Relief for Soreness (1)
Deep Vein Thrombosis (3)
Diabetes (11)
Diabetes and Vegan Diet Help (1)
Diabetes Blood Test (1)
Diabetes Treatment (1)
Diabetic Neuropathic Pain (4)
Diabetic Socks (1)
Diet Health (1)
Dislocated Toe (1)
Distance Running (1)
Double Crush Syndrome (11)
Dr Deepak Chopra (pain specialist Rhode Island) (1)
Dr Lance Silverman's Blog (3)
Drawing Salve (1)
Dress Orthotic Devices (2)
Dry Cracked Heels (1)
Dry Skin (1)
Ehler Danlos (1)
En Pointe (Ballet) (2)
En Pointe Starting Point (1)
Epiphyseal Injury (1)
Equinus (1)
EvenUps (2)
Excessive Pronation (3)
Excessive Pronation Varus Wedge (1)
Excessive Supination (6)
Exercise Health Benefits (2)
Exercise Is Medicine Program (1)
Exercise Tips (1)
Exogen Bone Stimulator (5)
External Hip Rotator Strengthening (5)
Extracorpreal Shockwave Treatment (1)
Fall Injury with Advice (1)
Fall Prevention Program (2)
Falling and Ways to Prevent (2)
Family Support for Injury (1)
Fascia (1)
Fat Pad Atrophy (4)
Fat Pad Replacement (3)
Fettig Technique (2)
Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (6)
Finn Comfort Boots/Shoes/Sandals (1)
First Metatarsal Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
First Metatarsal Position Evaluation (3)
First Metatarsal Stability (1)
Flat Feet (5)
Flat Feet and Running (1)
Flatfeet (2)
Flatfeet in Children (1)
Flexor Hallucis Longus Eccentric Strengthening (1)
Floor Mirror for Diabetes (1)
Flying Advice when Swollen (1)
Foam Toe Caps (1)
Food Allergies (1)
Foods to Fight Pain (1)
Foot Anatomy (1)
Foot and Ankle Strengthening Video Playlist (1)
Foot and Knee Relationship (2)
Foot Drop (3)
Foot Exercises (2)
Foot Health Websites (1)
Foot Nerve Pain (8)
Foot Orthotic Devices (21)
Foot Poem (1)
Foot Smart Company (1)
Foot Strengthening Exercises (16)
Foot Stress Fractures (6)
Foot Surgeries and Strengthening (1)
Force Length Curve (1)
Forefoot Abnormalities (3)
Forefoot Pain (2)
Forefoot Valgus (1)
Forefoot Varus (2)
Fracture Foot Advise (1)
Fracture Healing with Bone Stimulation (1)
Fracture with Soft Tissue Involvement (1)
Fractures and Smoking Link (1)
Fractures Foot (1)
Fractures of Metatarsals (3)
Fractures of the Foot (1)
Friction Relief (1)
Front of Foot Pain (2)
Frozen Ankle (1)
Functional Foot Orthotics (3)
Functional Hallux Limitus (2)
Gabapentin (1)
Gait Abnormalities (1)
Gait Evaluation (22)
Gait Phases (1)
Ganglions (5)
Gangrene (1)
Gel for Cushioning (2)
General Biomechanical Principles (4)
General Foot Care Advice (1)
Golden Rules of Foot (5)
Good Pain vs Bad Pain (4)
Gout (6)
Gout: General Treatment Thoughts (1)
Graded Motor Imagery for Nerve Pain (1)
Hallux Inter-Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
Hallux Limitus Functional (1)
Hallux Limitus Initial Symptoms (1)
Hallux Limitus Xray Evaluation (1)
Hallux Limitus/ Rigidus (44)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (9)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Playlist (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Reader Comment Post (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Self Mobilization Technique (2)
Hallux Pain (1)
Hallux Rigidus (5)
Hallux Rigidus Splint (1)
Hallux Rigidus Surgical Options (3)
Hallux Rigidus/Post Op (5)
Hallux Sesamoiditis (1)
Hallux Valgus/Bunion (1)
Hallux Varus (2)
Hammertoe Surgical Rehabilitation (1)
Hammertoes (8)
Hammertoes: Cause and Treatment (1)
Hamstring Stretches (5)
Hamstring Stretches Floor Based (1)
Hamstrings (2)
Hannaford Orthotics (8)
Hapad OTC Arch Supports (3)
Hawaii (1)
HbA1c Blood Test for Diabetes (1)
Health Benefits Daily Exercise (1)
Health Tip (1)
Heat Therapy (1)
Heel Bursitis (3)
Heel Lifts (1)
Heel Pain (26)
Heel Pain Evaluation (1)
Heel Pain in a Runner (1)
Heel Pain in Children (1)
Heel Pain Treatment with Orthotics (1)
Heel Pain Video (1)
Heel Pain Website (1)
Heel Slippage (1)
Heel Slippage and Shoes (1)
Heel Spurs (1)
High Heels (8)
High Heels with Orthopedic Thoughtfulness (1)
Hiking (1)
Hiking Boot Lacing for Stability (1)
Hiking Boots (5)
Hiking Preparation (1)
Hip Arthritis in Runners (1)
Hip Hop Dance (1)
Hip Pain (4)
Hip Pain and Foot Mechanics (1)
Hip Replacement (4)
Hip Replacement Problems (1)
Hip Replacements and Limb Length Discrepancies (2)
History of Podiatric Biomechanics (1)
HOKA shoes (4)
How To Begin To Run (1)
Hypermobility of Joints/Feet (1)
Ice Pack (1)
Ice Therapy (1)
Ice Treatment (1)
Icing for Swelling Reduction (2)
Ilio-Tibial Band Syndrome (3)
Iliotibial Band Syndrome: General Thoughts (1)
Images of Plantar Fascial Tear (4)
Immobilization with EvenUp (1)
Impressions for Orthotic Devices (1)
Infected Ingrown Toenail (3)
Infections (2)
Inflammation Food Triggers (1)
Ingrown Toenails (4)
Injection Tips for Comfort (1)
Injections for Diagnosis (1)
Injury Rehabilitation (4)
Injury Rehabilitation Principles (12)
Insect Bite (1)
Insertional Achilles Tendinitis (3)
Instep Pain (1)
Internally Rotated Legs (2)
International Biomechanics (1)
Intoed Gait (1)
Intrinsic Foot Strengthening (2)
Inverted Orthotic Technique (33)
Iontophoresis (1)
Joint Dysfunction (1)
Joint Mobilization Treatment (1)
Jones Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (3)
Juvaderm (1)
Keep It Simple Stupid (1)
Ketamine sublingual (1)
Kinesiotape (2)
Kirby Skive (3)
KISS Principle (2)
Knee Arthritis in Runners (1)
Knee Mechanics (1)
Knee Pain (16)
Knee Pain and Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Knee Treatment with Varus Wedging (1)
Kneecap Injuries (1)
Knees (4)
Lacing for Stability (2)
Lacing Modifications (2)
Lamisil (2)
Laser for Fungus (1)
Lasers for Pain (1)
Lateral Ankle Pain (1)
Lateral Knee Compartment Syndrome (2)
Laterality Flash Cards (3)
Laterality Flash Cards for Nerve Pain (1)
Ledderhose Disease (2)
Leg Length Discrepancy (1)
Leg/Shin Pain (7)
Lifts (2)
Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Limb Dominance in Gait (1)
Limb Length Discrepancies (4)
Limping Discussion (1)
Lipitor (1)
Lisa Tonra's Fitness Tips (4)
Lisfranc's Joint Sprain (5)
Listen To Your Body/Never Push Through Pain (1)
Long Distance Running (1)
Longer Feet Problems (1)
Loss of Sensation (1)
Lotions/Creams (1)
Low Back Nerve Compression (1)
Low Back Pain (4)
Low Dose Naltrexone (2)
Low Dye Taping (1)
Lower Extremity Review (1)
Lumps on the Foot (1)
Lymphatic Drainage (1)
Lyrica Dosing for Neuropathic Pain (1)
Magical 80% (1)
Malignant Melanoma (2)
Marathon Matt (2)
Marathon Training for Beginners (2)
MarathonRookie.com (1)
Marathons (3)
Marc Evans Triathalon Coach (4)
Massage Balls for Foot Pain (2)
Maximalistic Shoes (3)
Mechanics of Overuse Injuries (1)
Medial Knee Arthritis (1)
Medial Knee Compartment Syndrome (3)
Medical History (3)
Medical History: Biomechanics (1)
Medications Causing Tendon Problems (1)
Medications for Nerve Pain (5)
Meditation for Healing (2)
Men's Shoes for Long and Narrow Feet (1)
Metatarsal Arcing Exercise (1)
Metatarsal Doming Exercise (2)
Metatarsal Fracture Oblique Fifth (1)
Metatarsal Fractures (4)
Metatarsal Pain (16)
Metatarsal Support (1)
Metatarsalgia (6)
Midfoot Arthritis/Arthralgias (1)
Midfoot Pain (1)
Mirror Box Therapy (1)
Morton's Neuromas (29)
Morton's Syndrome (1)
MRI Knee (1)
Multiple Sclerosis (1)
Music for Chronic Pain (1)
Music for Healing (2)
Mustard Seed Plaster (1)
Nail Matrixectomy (kill root cells) (1)
Nail Polish (1)
Navicular (4)
Navicular Drop Test for Pronation (1)
Navicular Fractures (2)
Negative Cast Bisection (1)
Negative Cast Pouring (1)
Nerve Hypersensitivity (2)
Nerve Injury (2)
Nerve Pain (40)
Nerve Pain after Injuries (1)
Nerve Pain and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Nerve Pain and Exercise (1)
Nerve Pain caused by Neck Problems (1)
Nerve Pain Diet (1)
Nerve Pain Forefoot (1)
Nerve Pain from Back (1)
Nerve Pain Topical Medication (2)
Nerve Pain Treatment with Exercise (1)
Nerve Symptoms in Foot (1)
Neural Flossing (7)
Neural Prolotherapy (1)
Neural Tension (2)
Neuro-Eze (3)
Neuromas (6)
Neurontin (2)
Neuropathic Pain (11)
Nexcare Tape (1)
NSAIDS (1)
Numbness in the Foot (2)
Ollier's Disease (1)
Onychomycosis (3)
Oral Cortisone (2)
Orthotic Adjustments (1)
Orthotic Casting (1)
Orthotic Design (4)
Orthotic Designs (7)
Orthotic Device Break In (Tips) (1)
Orthotic Device Shoe Fit (1)
Orthotic Functions (1)
Orthotic Manufacturing (1)
Orthotic Modification to Prevent Movement (1)
Orthotic Modifications (7)
Orthotic Prescription Writing (1)
Orthotic Research (1)
Orthotic Waterproofing Product (1)
Orthotics for Maximum Shock Absorption (1)
Orthotics for Sandals (1)
Os Peroneum (1)
Os Tibial Externum (1)
Os Trigonum (2)
Osgood Schlatters Prolotherapy (1)
Osgood Schlatters Syndrome (1)
Osteoporosis Exercises (1)
Overheating While Exercising (1)
Overuse Injury Generalizations (1)
PAD: Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Pain (3)
Pain Checklist (1)
Pain Flareups (1)
Pain Management (3)
Pain Medical History (1)
Pain Scale (2)
Pain Treatment with Laser (1)
Pain: 3 Sources (2)
Paraffin Wax Treatments (1)
Partial Sesamoidectomy (3)
Patella Injuries (1)
Pediatric Problems (1)
Pedicures (1)
Pelvic Pain (1)
Pelvic Tilts (2)
Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Peripheral Neuropathy (9)
Peripheral Neuropathy with Gluten Sensitivity (1)
Peripheral Venous Insufficiency (1)
Peroneal Subluxation/Dislocation Syndrome (3)
Peroneal Tendinitis (7)
Peroneal Tendon Injuries (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Post Op (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Rehabilitation (1)
Peroneal Tendon Strengthening with Therabands (1)
Pes Cavus (1)
Pes Cavus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Pes Planus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Phantom Limb Pain (1)
Phases of Rehabilitation (1)
Physical Fitness (1)
Physical Therapy Modalities (4)
Pigeon Toes (1)
Piriformis Syndrome (2)
Plantar Fascia Sock (1)
Plantar Fascial Night Splint (2)
Plantar Fascial Stretches (9)
Plantar Fascial Surgery/Post Op (1)
Plantar Fascial Tear (15)
Plantar Fasciitis (45)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment based on need (1)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment Principles (3)
Plantar Fasciitis Injection (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Massage Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Orthotics by Hannaford Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Prolotherapy (1)
plantar fasciitis taping (1)
Plantar Fasciitis: Basic Treatment Remedies (1)
Plantar Fibromatosis or Fibromas (3)
Plantar Heel Bursitis (2)
Plantar Plate Tear (11)
Plantar Wart (4)
Playlist for Morton's Neuroma (2)
Playlist for Plantar Fasciitis (1)
Playlist for Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Playlist Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (1)
Plyometrics (1)
Posemethod of Running (1)
Positive Casts (2)
Positive Casts before Balancing (1)
Post Exercise Cool Down (1)
Post Op Foot Concerns (1)
Posterior Ankle Impingement Syndrome (1)
Posterior Heel Pain (1)
Posterior Tibial Dysfunction (26)
posterior tibial strengthening exercises (3)
posterior tibial tendinitis (11)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction Brace (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Surgery (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Taping (1)
Power Lacing (4)
Pre-Dislocation Syndrome (1)
Prednisone Negative Impact Tendons (1)
Pregnancy (2)
PRICE (2)
Prolotherapy (1)
Pronation Control with Orthotic Modifications (2)
Pronation Evaluation (1)
Proprioceptive Exercises (1)
PRP injection (1)
Psoriasis (1)
Psoriatic Arthritis (3)
Psoriatic Arthritis and Ankle Swelling (1)
Push Off (1)
Quadreps Stretching (2)
Quadriceps Strengthening (1)
Radiculopathy (1)
Rearfoot Posts (3)
Recovering from Injury (1)
Referred Pain from Low Back (5)
Referred Pain to Foot (1)
Removable Boot from Ovation Medical (1)
Removable Boots (3)
Research on Treatment Success (1)
Retro-calcaneal bursitis (2)
Retrocalcaneal spur/exostosis (1)
Return to Activity (1)
Returning to Running after Injury (1)
Rheumatoid Arthritis (1)
RICE Therapy (1)
Rockport Shoes (1)
Roll A Bout (2)
Ronald Reagan's Humor (1)
Root Balance Technique (8)
Root Balancing Device (2)
RSD (5)
Runner's Exercise (1)
Runner's Knee (3)
Runner's Knee Exercise (1)
Runner's Loop (1)
Running (16)
Running 2012 (1)
Running Downhill (1)
Running Form (2)
Running Injuries (4)
Running Low Impact (1)
Running Shoe Evaluation for Wear (1)
Running Shoe Lecture (1)
Running Shoes (13)
Running Socks (1)
Running Technique (1)
Running vs Walking (1)
Running vs Walking Mechanics (1)
Running Warehouse (1)
Sacro-Iliac Joint Testing (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture Oct 2015 (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture on Gait Evaluation (1)
Samuel Merritt University Sports Medicine Lecture 1/13 (1)
Sandals for Cushioning (2)
Sandals for Summer (3)
Scar Breakdown (3)
Scar Reduction Techniques (2)
Sciatica (2)
Sciatica and Piriformis Syndrome (3)
Scoliosis (2)
Second Opinions (3)
Senior Health Issues (1)
Sensoria (1)
Sesamoid (10)
Sesamoid AVN (9)
Sesamoid Fracture (40)
Sesamoid Fracture General Rules (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Growing Child (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Initial Plan of Attack (1)
Sesamoid Fracture Post Surgery (12)
Sesamoid Fractures (53)
Sesamoid Injuries (58)
Sesamoid Missing in Child (1)
Sesamoid MRI views (1)
Sesamoid Partial Removal Post Surgery (2)
Sesamoid Post Op (6)
Sesamoid Sleeve for Protection (1)
Sesamoid Surgery Advice (1)
Sesamoid Surgery with Complications (4)
Sesamoiditis (8)
Sesamoidits (2)
Sever's Disease (3)
ShearBan (2)
Shin Splints (8)
Shin Splints 4 Basic Types (1)
Shin Splints Basic Treatment (1)
Shock Absorption (4)
Shoe Biomechanics (2)
Shoe Buying Tip (1)
Shoe Evaluation (4)
Shoe Evaluation for Flexion Properties (1)
Shoe Horn Replacement: Footfunnel (1)
Shoe Insert Evaluation (1)
Shoe Inserts (18)
Shoe Lace Modification (1)
Shoe Lacing for Wide Feet (1)
Shoe Lacing Techniques (5)
Shoe Lift Online Purchasing (1)
Shoe Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Shoe Modification (11)
Shoe Purchasing (1)
Shoe Size (2)
Shoe Size Measurement (1)
Shoe Stability Tests (2)
Shoe Wear Patterns (3)
Shoe Wedging (1)
Shoe Wedging for Supinators (1)
Shoes (10)
Shoes for Fashion (1)
Shoes for Infants (1)
Shoes for Men Long and Narrow (1)
Shoes online (1)
Short Leg Lifts Shoe Website (1)
Short Leg Syndrome (47)
Short Leg Syndrome and Hip Replacement (2)
Shots (1)
SI Joint (1)
Single Leg Balancing Exercise (1)
Sinus Tarsi Syndrome (1)
Skin Cancer (3)
Skin Discoloration (1)
Skin/Nail Conditions (2)
Sleeping Protection for Foot Pain (1)
Smart Socks (1)
Smart Sox (1)
Soccer Cleats (2)
Socks (3)
Socks for Cold Feet (1)
Socks with High Tech (1)
Soft Tissue Injury Treatment (1)
Sole OTC Arch Supports (2)
Solemates for Heels (1)
Soles4Souls (1)
Somatic Experiencing (1)
Song of Podiatry (2)
Sore Pressure Spots Bottom Feet (3)
Special Interest Story (1)
Spica Taping (5)
Spica Taping for big toe joint problems testimony (1)
Sports Medicine (1)
Sports Medicine Class 2012 (1)
Sprain Big Toe Joint (1)
Squeaking Orthotics (2)
Stationary Bike (2)
Steida's Process Fracture (1)
Stinky Feet (1)
Stonger Bones (1)
Straight Leg Raise Test (1)
Strengthening 6 Basic Types (1)
Strengthening Achilles Eccentrically (2)
Strengthening for Ankles (1)
Strengthening for Feet (2)
Strengthening for Hips (1)
strengthening for posterior tibial tendon (1)
Strengthening General Principles (4)
Stress Fractures (4)
Stress Fractures of the Leg (1)
Stretching (4)
Stretching 13 General Principles (1)
Stretching Achilles Principles (1)
Stretching for Achilles (1)
Stretching for Hamstrings (4)
Stretching for Ilio-Tibial Band (2)
Stretching for Plantar Fasciitis (2)
Stretching for Quads (2)
Stretching General Principles (1)
Stretching Principles (1)
Stretching Technique (1)
Stretching the Achilles Properly (1)
Stretching with Heat and Ice (2)
Subtalar Joint Arthritis (1)
Sunscreen for Feet (1)
Supination (15)
Supination causing Ankle Problems (2)
Supination Exercises for better Stability (1)
Supination Orthotic Modifications (2)
Support Hose for Leg Swelling (5)
Support Hose Slippage (1)
Support the Foot Taping (1)
Supportthefoot.com (1)
Sural Neuritis (maybe) (1)
Surgery of the Future?? (1)
Swelling After Ankle Sprains (2)
Swelling and Nerve Symptoms (1)
Swelling Self Help Tips (1)
Swelling Treatment (7)
Swimming Rehabilitation Ankle Brace (1)
Swollen Big Toe Joint (8)
Tailor's Bunions (2)
Talar Fractures (1)
Talus Injury (2)
Taping for 2nd Metatarsal/Toe Pain (4)
Taping for 5th Metatarsal Base Fractures (1)
Taping for Achilles (2)
Taping for Ankle Sprains/Pain (1)
Taping for Arch Pain (4)
Taping for Big Toe Joint Pain (3)
Taping for Bunions (1)
Taping for Plantar Fasciitis (4)
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping for Toe Injuries (1)
Taping Modifications (1)
Taping of Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping of the Arch (2)
Taping the Arch (1)
Taping/Wraps (2)
Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome (13)
Team In Training (1)
Tendinitis (3)
tendinitis of the posterior tibial tendon (1)
Tendinitis Treatment with BRISS (3)
Tennis Shoes (2)
Theraband Strengthening Equipment (1)
Tibial Stress Fractures (3)
Tingling in the Foot (1)
Tip of the Iceberg Concept (1)
Tips for Breaking in Orthotic Devices (1)
Toastie Toes (1)
Toe Dislocation with Closed Reduction (1)
Toe Hyper Flexion Injury (1)
Toe Injury (1)
Toe Length Differences (1)
Toe Length Issues (1)
Toe Problems (4)
Toe Separators for Bunions (2)
Toenail Fungus (17)
Toenail Fungus Cold Plasma Treatment (1)
Toenail Fungus Topical Medication (1)
Toenail Fungus Urea Treatment (1)
Toenail Pain (1)
Toenails (1)
Top 100 Biomechanical Guidelines (45)
Treadmill Workouts (2)
Triathalons (3)
Tumeric (2)
Tumor of the Bone (1)
Turf Toe (7)
Twitter Updates (2)
Two Different Size Feet (1)
Ulcerations (3)
Ultrasound Examination Foot and Ankle (1)
Underpronation (aka over supination) (1)
Valgus Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Varicose Veins (1)
Varus Wedging (3)
Vegan Diet (1)
Vitamin B Deficiency (1)
Vitamin D Deficiency (2)
Vitamin D/Calcium (6)
Walk Run Program (2)
Walking Poles for Hiking (1)
Walking Schedule Website (1)
Walking Shoes (1)
Walking Stairs (1)
Walking vs Running Mechanics (1)
Walnuts (1)
Wart (1)
Wart Treatment with Apple Cider Vinegar (1)
Water Aerobic Shoes (1)
Water Gym (1)
Water Workouts (1)
Waterproofing (1)
Weaning from a Cast (2)
Websites for Foot Health (1)
Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Weight Loss Workouts (1)
Weighted Jackets for MS patients (1)
When To Ice? (1)
Wide Feet Shoes (3)
Women's Shoes (1)
Wounds (1)
X-rays for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Xrays for Short Leg (3)
Xrays for Tibial Stress Fractures (1)
Xrays/MRIs/Tests (7)
Yoga (2)
Yoga Introduction 13 Poses (1)
Yoga Toes (1)
Zappos Shoes Online (1)
Sitemap
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.