Yoga Can Help Asthma - Yoga Teacher Training Blog
Skip to content
FacebookTwitterYouTubePinterestRssInstagram
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use – Articles
Why Yoga Teacher Training?
The Benefits of Online Yoga Teacher Training
No Cost Membership
Yoga Teacher Training FAQs
How to Get the Most Out of Your Yoga Teacher Training Videos
Yoga Community
Yoga Teacher Video Resource Center
Yoga Teacher Training Podcasts
Yoga Resources for Teachers
Courses and Products
Platinum Teacher Courses
Teacher Courses
Upgrade Courses
e-Courses
e-Books
Books
CDs
DVDs
Kits
Apparel
Merchandise
Class Packages
Online Intensives
Onsite Yoga Teacher Training
White Glove Services
Miscellaneous
Follow our Blog
Join our Forum
Benefits of using Aura’s Yoga Teacher Training Forum
Yoga Teacher Training Testimonials
Yoga Kids and Prenatal Testimonials
Video Testimonials
Submit Your Testimonial
Newsletter
Newsletter Archives
Search for:
Yoga Can Help Asthma
Home/YOGA BY CONDITION/Asthma/Yoga Can Help Asthma
Previous	Next
Yoga Can Help Asthma
By Narendra Maheshri
Asthma is a chronic disease characterized by inflammation of the lungs, wheezing, tightness in the chest and difficulty breathing. Asthmatics might suffer from chronic or persistent coughing as well as attacks triggered by any number of things, which can include allergens or stressors. Often, these attacks follow interludes of time that are symptom-free.
Most asthmatics use drugs to control their symptoms. The use of inhalers offers immediate relief during attacks though over-use can contribute to worsening of chronic asthma. Long-term control drugs like corticosteroids also work to keep the disease from progressing. People with asthma are advised to avoid known asthma triggers and to carry a rescue inhaler with them whenever possible.
How Can Yoga Help?
If drugs are the primary treatment option that doctors and patients use on asthma, there are still a variety of alternative or complementary therapies that can reduce symptoms. Many researchers and practitioners believe that yoga can relieve symptoms of asthma through a retraining of disturbed breathing patterns as well as an improved, more relaxed connection with the body.
Despite the fact that asthmatics must change their breathing patterns to reduce asthma symptoms, some yogis with asthma really struggle in certain pranayama exercises. Barbara Benagh, a yoga teacher suffering from asthma, explains that after a bout of pneumonia induced her chronic asthma, pranayama actually became a trigger for asthma attacks. She goes on to explain, however, that with much patience and persistent practice of breathing exercises, she was able to overcome many of her symptoms. One key factor in learning to overcome her triggers was focusing on breathing through her nose while at the same time trying not to over breathe, by which she means not exhaling too much carbon dioxide, which can alter the balance of the body. These ideas adhere to Buteyko’s method of reducing asthma symptoms by identifying and correcting chronic hyperventilation that can characterize asthmatics.
The practice of yoga also lends itself to a more complete self-awareness in addition to a more intense mind-body connection. Yoga practitioners that learn how to use breathing to alter an over-stimulated mental or emotional environment can also reduce asthma symptoms since some attacks are triggered by emotional or mental stimuli. Additionally, being more aware of their bodies through the practice of yoga can alert asthmatics early to potential attacks and allow them to take steps to avoid triggers or to head off the onset of symptoms.
© Copyright 2012 – Aura Wellness Center – Publications Division
To see our selection of Yoga teacher training and continuing education courses, please visit the following link.
https://www.aurawellnesscenter.com/store/
Free report, newsletter, videos, podcasts, and e-Book: “Yoga in Practice.”
If you are a Yoga Teacher, studio owner, blogger, e-zine, or website publisher, and are in need of quality content, please feel free to use my blog entries (articles). Please be sure to reprint each article, as is, including the resource box above. Namaste!
Share This Article
Dr. Paul Jerard, E-RYT 5002017-04-26T15:30:17+00:00Categories: Asthma|Tags: help asthma, practice of breathing exercises, practice of yoga, yoga can, yoga can help, yoga teacher|1 Comment
One Comment
Masud Parvez February 25, 2016 at 8:58 am	Log in to Reply
Yoga can relieve symptoms of asthma through a retraining of disturbed breathing patterns as well as an improved, more relaxed connection with the body. Thanks for sharing this useful article.
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
What are the Benefits?
Read more about the benefits of becoming a free member of Yoga-Teacher-Training.org
Choose a Topic
Choose a Topic Select Category A YOGA BUSINESS Yoga Books Yoga Business Yoga Certification Yoga Class Yoga Distance Learning Yoga Ethics Yoga Practice Yoga Studio YOGA BY CONDITION Aging Ailments / Disorders Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Cancer Diabetes Digestion Eating Disorders Fibromyalgia Glaucoma / Vision Headaches Heart Health High Blood Pressure Infertility Lung Disease Medical Conditions Multiple Sclerosis Obesity Pain Management Parkinson’s Disease Skeletal Health Sleep Disorders / Insomnia Stroke Weight Loss YOGA BY GROUP Corporate Yoga Family Yoga Yoga at Home Yoga for Children Yoga for Men Yoga for Mothers Yoga for Seniors Yoga for Women YOGA FOR MENTAL HEALTH Anger Management Depression Emotional Health Fear Happiness Meditation / Nidra Mindfulness Positive Thinking Relaxation Self-Esteem Stress Management Trauma Survivors YOGA FOR PHYSICAL HEALTH About Naturopathy Breath Awareness / Pranayama Yoga Anatomy Yoga and Ayurveda Yoga Fitness Yoga for Athletes Yoga for Beauty Yoga Kinesiology Yoga Therapy Yogic Diet YOGA INTRODUCTION & HISTORY Benefits of Yoga History of Yoga Sanskrit Yoga Sutras Yogic Philosophy YOGA MULTIMEDIA Mudras Video Series Podcasts Yoga Videos YOGA NEWS AND PRESS Announcements YOGA STYLES: Modern Chair Yoga Hot Yoga Office Yoga Partner Yoga Power Yoga Prenatal Yoga Restorative Yoga YOGA STYLES: Traditional Ashtanga Yoga Bhakti Yoga Hatha Yoga Jnana Yoga Karma Yoga Kundalini Yoga Vedanta Yoga Vinyasa Yoga Yama and Niyama Yin Yoga YOGA TEACHER FAQs Online Yoga FAQs Yoga Business FAQs Yoga Certification FAQs Yoga Courses FAQs Yoga Health FAQs Yoga Learning FAQs Yoga Policy FAQs Yoga Practice FAQs Yoga Products FAQs YOGA TEACHING How to Teach Yoga Teaching Fitness Yoga Yoga Online Yoga Regulation Yoga Research Yoga Schools Yoga Student Safety Yoga Teacher Course Information Yoga Teacher Issues Yoga Training YOGIC LIFESTYLE Laughter Yoga Loving Kindness Mantras and Japa Prana Yoga and Religion Yoga for Empowerment Yoga for Inspiration Yoga for Personal Growth Yoga for Spiritual Health Yoga Lifestyle and the Yogic path YOGIC METHODOLOGY Asana Moon Salutations Sun Salutations Yoga Bandhas Yoga Mudras for Healing Yoga Poses Yoga Props Yogic Subtle Body
Tags
Aura Wellness Center become a yoga instructor become a yoga teacher benefits of yoga certified yoga teacher chair yoga articles hatha-yoga-safety hatha yoga article archive kids yoga articles Meditation practice of yoga practice yoga practicing yoga students teaching hatha yoga teaching yoga teach yoga yoga yoga asana archive yoga certification yoga certification course yoga class yoga classes yoga instructor yoga instructor certification yoga instructors yoga instructor training yoga is yoga poses archive yoga practice yoga school yoga student yoga students yoga studio yoga teacher yoga teacher certification yoga teacher course information yoga teachers yoga teachers training Yoga Teacher Training Yoga Teacher Training course yoga teacher training courses Yoga teacher training intensive yoga teacher training program yoga training
Popular
Recent
Comments
Secrets of Successful Yoga Teachers
Apr 1, 2014
Yoga and Your Bowels
Jun 26, 2011
How Long Does It Take to Become a Certified Yoga Teacher?
Feb 6, 2008
Yoga Students and Comparisons to Instructors
Apr 16, 2017
What Doctors Should Know about Yoga
Jul 27, 2016
Celebrating Life with Yoga: A Metaphorical Journey
Feb 20, 2016
seodcpl says:
Thank you for nice article!
parvezbdjsr says:
Yoga is a form of exercise that benefits both our body mind…
parvezbdjsr says:
Yogic exercise are always helpful to keep our body fit and besides…
Keep in Touch
Find us on Facebook
Recent Tweets
Tweets by PaulJerard
Due to the repeated success of our Yoga teacher training graduates, Aura Wellness Center has developed a Yoga certification program, which teaches you everything you need to know about how to safely instruct classes, constantly improve your skills, and run a successful teaching practice.
Recent Posts
Yoga Students and Comparisons to Instructors
What Doctors Should Know about Yoga
Celebrating Life with Yoga: A Metaphorical Journey
Therapeutic Value of Slow Flow Yoga
Teaching Inversions For Mood Elevation
Aura Wellness Center
21 Park Street, Suite 202
Attleboro, MA 02703
Phone: 508-222-0092
Web: Yoga Teacher Training
Home
Forum
Blog
Video Resources
About Yoga Teacher Training
Testimonials
Contact Us
Tweets by PaulJerard
© Copyright Aura Wellness Center, Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | SiteMap
FacebookTwitterYouTubePinterestRssInstagram
×
Become an Aura Insider
Sign Up and Save!
Newsletter
Discounts
Videos
Forum
Get $25 Off Any Course $497 or More Today!
Sign Up
hidden
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site you are giving consent to cookies being used.OkRead more