Croup
Sign in to MyChart Directions Español International
Refine Search
Entire Site
Conditions & Health Topics
Clinical Services & Specialties
Doctors & Researchers
Research Institutes, Divisions, and Centers
Special Needs Resources
Clinical Studies
Visit and Directions
Physician Toolkit
Human Genetics
Patients & Family
Patients and Family Home
Clinical Services
Your Child's Condition
Visiting Cincinnati Children's
Hospital Resources
MyChart
International
Quick Links
Schedule an Appointment
Billing and Health Care Exchange
Visiting Policies
eCards
Clinical Studies
Special Needs Resources
Patient's Guide to Surgery
Subscribe to e-Newsletters
What Makes Us Different
Healthcare Professionals
Healthcare Professionals Home
Refer a Patient
Resources
Continuing Professional Education
Institutes, Divisions & Centers
Clinical Studies
Quick Links
Continuing Medical Education
Nursing
Subscribe to e-Newsletters
Conditions
MyChart
Neighborhood Locations
Outcomes and Quality
Family-Centered Rounds
Clinical Laboratories
Researchers
Research Home
Research at Cincinnati Children's
Institutes, Divisions & Centers
Research Cores
Education & Training Programs
Research Support Services
Clinical Trials
Quick Links
Research Annual Report
Cincinnati Children's Research Foundation
Research Horizons
Professional Education
Professional Education Home
Clinical Programs
Research Programs
Funded Training
Community Education & Events
Quick Links
Pediatric Residency Program
Graduate Medical Education
Clinical Fellowship Programs
Specialty Residency Programs
PhD Training Programs
Student & Graduate Programs
Genetics Education Nursing Program
About
About Home
Mission and Vision
Awards and Recognition
Careers
Our History
Contact Us
Quick Links
Outcomes and Quality
Visiting Cincinnati Children's
What Makes Us Different
Newsroom
Critical Care Building
Other Languages
Make a Referral
Giving
Giving Home
Make a Gift
Events
Volunteer
Stay Connected
Shop to Give
Contact Us
Quick Links
Critical Care Campaign
Stories of Hope and Giving
Champions: Share Your Story
Community Fundraisers
Plan a Future Gift
Corporate & Foundation Giving
Donate Toys & Other Items
Gift Shop
Create an Online Personal Page
Croup
Home
Health Topics
C
Croup
Recommend Email
Print
Find Another Condition or Treatment
Croup
Croup is an infection causing a partial blockage of air as it flows through the larynx (voice box). The noise can be very frightening, and your child's cough may sound like a seal barking. When your child breathes in you may hear a harsh, rasping sound, which is called stridor. The child's voice may be hoarse, too.
Croup may appear after your child has had a cold for several days. Croup is usually caused by a virus and may last several days. Sometimes croup comes on suddenly in the middle of the night. It may disappear in as little as a few hours. It may occur more than one time in a child's life.
Show All
Signs and Symptoms of CroupShow
Because your child cannot move air in and out of his / her lungs easily, you may see some of the following symptoms:
The hollow area beneath the child's Adam's apple in the neck may pull in
Your child's chest may pull in when he / she breathes in
Your child's face may be pale
Your child may look frightened
Stay calm. Croup is frightening to the child and parents. A crying, upset child tends to make the croup worse. Parents can help to relieve croup by being calm themselves, which helps to quiet the child. This relieves the tightness around the larynx and allows the child to breathe more easily.
Treatment for CroupShow
Take your child into the bathroom and shut the door.
Turn on the shower and hot water faucets to make steam. Be careful to keep away from the hot water. Cool mist will work, too, and is safer. If the mist seems to upset the child, stop and calm the child. You may also take the child outside to breathe in the cool night air.
Sit with your child and let him / her breathe in the steam.
Do not leave your child alone.
Have someone start a vaporizer or a humidifier in the child's room. Continue to keep your child's room humidified, especially if the air is dry.
When breathing is easier (10-15 minutes), give your child a Popsicle. Later give him / her more clear fluids to drink. This will help keep the throat and airway moist.
If your child’s breathing does not improve, call your child’s doctor or go to the nearest emergency room.
Seek Emergency Care/ Call 911 If:Show
Your child's breathing does not improve after trying the home treatments for 15-30 minutes
Your child's breathing problem gets worse
Your child begins drooling
Your child has trouble swallowing
Your child becomes restless and cannot sleep
A bluish color is seen around your child's lips
Your observations of your child are important. Tell the doctor what you have seen and what you have done. This information will help the doctor care for your child.
DietShow
Avoid milk and thick liquids. These will make your child's phlegm (mucus) thicker and make him / her cough more.
Encourage age appropriate clear fluids: Pedialyte for children less than 1 year of age; juice for children over 1 year of age.
ActivityShow
Activities such as coloring and looking at books together will help your child stay calm and quiet so he / she may breathe more easily.
Last Updated 04/2017
Translation
Spanish Translation
Clinical Services
Emergency Services
Pulmonary
General and Community Pediatrics
Conditions & Treatments
Chest / Lungs Conditions and Diagnoses
Infectious Diseases Conditions and Diagnoses
About Children's
About Us Careers Newsroom Events Español eCards
Your Children's
Billing Information
Schedule an Appointment
Find a Doctor / Researcher
Medical Records
Make a Referral
MyChart
Find Children's
Contact Us Locations & Directions Terms of Use / Privacy Policies Non-Discrimination Notice
3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3026 | 1-513-636-4200 | 1-800-344-2462
© 1999-2019 Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. All rights reserved.