Best Creams To Fight Acne Scars - AskMen
AskMen
Sign up Log in
AskMen
0
Shares
Search AskMen
Search
Messages You have no messages
Notifications You have no notifications
Log out My guyQ My Stacks Settings
guyQ
Dating
Grooming
Gifting
Subscriptions
Gear
Fitness
Top 10
Subscribe
Search AskMen
Search
Become a Better Man
Dating
Sex
Dating Sites Reviews
Sex Positions Guide
Grooming
Gifting
Fitness
Style
Discoveries
Gear
News
Fine Living
Entertainment
Money
Cars
Special Features
Ask A Question
Subscription Reviews
Top 99 Women
Subscribe
Media Kit
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
IGN
PCMag
Offers.com
Geek
ExtremeTech
Toolbox
SpeedTest
AskMen on Facebook
AskMen on Twitter
AskMen on Flipboard
AskMen on Google News
© 2019 Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
AskMen, Become a Better Man, Big Shiny Things, Mantics and guyQ are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Hide
GROOMING
Appearance
Best Creams To Fight Acne Scars
© AskMen
Best Creams To Fight Acne Scars
What's Worse Than Acne? Acne Scars - Here's How To Avoid Them
Alex Bracetti
February 27, 2017
Share
Tweet
Flip
0
Shares
The AskMen editorial team thoroughly researches & reviews the best gear, services and staples for life. AskMen may get paid if you click a link in this article and buy a product or service.
Acne blows. Craters. Discoloration. Oily skin. Spotting. Every component of it is a complete morale killer, looks unattractive, and can easily place you in left swipe category. Could there be anything worse? Oh, wait, acne scarring. The emotional effects damaged skin causes can last longer than the actual blemishes that reshape your moneymaker. And while scarring can be incredibly difficult to avoid at times, it’s not an untreatable condition. So don’t shed a tear just yet because there’s nothing a good anti-acne scar cream can’t fix.
Before the search for a miracle facial serum commences, one must understand how acne scarring develops, and more importantly, how it should be treated. It starts with the texture of the skin being damaged. Once old breakouts heal, they can potentially leave a bump or indentation on the surface. Scarring comes in many shapes and forms. The biggest culprits listed below:
Boxcar: Have steeper edges than rolling scars and cover smaller areas
Erythema: Permanent redness that occurs with lighter skin tones
Hyper-pigmentation: Freckle-like spots or blotches that become more noticeable
Icepick: Deep and narrow blemishes that are the most difficult to treat
Keloid: Excess scar tissue that forms at the exact location of an injury
Pitted: Most common type resulting from inflammation that rests atop of fibrous tissue
Rolling: Similar to pitted scars, but identified by rounded, sloping edges
Restoring your skin back to its flawless profile requires some kind of medical care. Google acne scar treatments and you’re bound to stumble upon a variety of clinically proven cures, each offering their own skincare benefits. Laser surgery and collagen injections might be out of budget’s reach. So this is where topical creams save the day. They remain a popular choice based on over-the-counter availability, soothing application, and much more. And if that’s the remedy of choice you feel most comfortable purchasing and using, consider some of these key factors before stepping into the beauty aisle of your pharmacy.
What You Need To Know
Avoid harmful agents: Certain ones — including acrylics, alcohols, phthalates, and parabens — will destroy your skin, whereas ingredients like hydroquinone can produce permanent grey pigmentation.
Bask in the extra benefits: Scar healing is great, but any products designed to attack bumps, discoloration, and other acne-related infirmities are a huge win.
More vitamin C, less vitamin E: It’s been said a high dose of ascorbic acid works to brighten uneven skin tone and produce smoother outcomes, whereas a study from the University of Miami showed that applying vitamin E to scars either had no effect or made matters worse for 90% of test subjects.
Resort to Retinoids (when possible): Doctors recommend the use of retinoid skin products because they brighten and heal skin quickly.
Small checklist, massive gains. The best acne scar creams are the ones promoting essential ingredients and instant results. You’re asking, which are those? The market’s top offerings await you below.
Peter Thomas Roth De-Spot Plus
This luxury skincare staple offers a hybrid serum that works both as an acne and spot removal treatment. It’s a multi-purpose solution filled with rich antioxidants and skin-conditioning agents that restore your bark to its natural state. Making it a part of your skincare routine reverses some of the side effects that come with aging and post-acne discoloration, with betterment promised in as little as two weeks. Deeper scarring can take up to 12 weeks, with significant progress occurring throughout time. Modern ingredients such as illumiscin, niacinamide PC, actiwhite, chromabright, lipochroman-6, and caffeine work to boost one’s appearance by maintaining skintone clarity and texture, which is exactly what you desire.
$33.00 at Amazon.com
Mederma Scar Cream Plus
More affordable than the rest of the options, plus favored by most dermatologists and pharmacists, Merderma’s skin healer is the safest bet one can make. The fact that it’s potent enough to manage older and newer scars alone earns it a badge. That’s not to undersell some of its other rejuvenating features. It’s infused with SPF 30 to not only prevent sunburn, but also conceal scars in light environments. Testimonials rave over the product’s effectiveness on their skin, having improved the softness and texture of scars after weeks of use. Certain ingredients like glycerin and panthenol aid in healing skin tissue as well.
$12.99 at Amazon.com
Radha Beauty Organic Anti-Acne Spot Treatment
Is vegan grooming a big part of your skincare regimen? Much respect to you. Here we have an anti-acne cream composed from botanical ingredients and plant extracts, making it the only 100% organic scar treatment out there that we’re aware of. That means it’s free of GMOs, gluten and soy. This singular formulation brings antimicrobial and healing herbs together to fight hormonal breakouts and cystic acne from the moment it’s slathered onto your grille, halting the formation of blemishes by removing impurities and leveling out skin texture. One small pump (twice a day) is apparently enough to save face (pun intended). Even when producing an oily presence at first, it dries out quickly after application to work its magic.
$11.95 at Amazon.com
Eau Thermale Avene Cicalfate Restorative Skin Cream
A protection balm with restorative powers, this moisturizing elixir accelerates the recovery process by employing a special blend of minerals and thermal spring water to control the optimal healing environment of your skin. The use of sucralfate, a medication primarily taken for treating ulcers, works to protect damaged skin and isolates it from environmental toxins. A protective barrier is formed to minimize the appearance of scars. While thick in texture, the cream provides a gentle touch on sensitive skin, activating its cooling properties upon contact to tame irritation and redness. Reviews claim it works best when worn at night due to its thickness. This should spare you from any makeup malfunctions during the day.
$28.00 at Amazon.com
Vernal N-E Spot Corrector Cream
Vernal’s spot treatment is suited for all skin types and kills two blemish birds with one stone by working its way into cells to reduce signs of aging and scarring. A sense of warmth rushes through your face when applied gently onto skin. The complex is ridiculously loaded with skin renewal ingredients that work cohesively to reduce the formation of cellular debris for smoother skin retransformation. Supplements like hyaluronic acid enhance skin by replenishing the surface with essential nutrients to provide a healthier glow — no parabens, no sulfates. It’s recommended that users pair the cream with a quality SPF for a bigger payoff. Clinical trials show 63% of consumers experienced improvements in skin tone and 100% reported healthier skin.
$37.95 at Amazon.com
Revitol Scar Removal Cream
From acne to burn scars, bruises to surgical lesions, the makers of Revitol claim their product is made to cure all wounds. If the name of the product isn’t already a clear indication, the signature ingredient here is retinol, which works uniformly with more advanced elements like copper peptides to penetrate through lower skin layers and heal damaged tissue, stimulating skin cell regeneration. Special proteins and vitamins then work to reduce the visibility of any scarring. The formula bears other notable traits including the ability to block skin from growing back faded cells again — not to mention it balances collagen levels to eliminate discolorations.
$39.95 at Amazon.com
a. c. care Bee's Repair Complex Cream
It’s pretty easy to sell a consumer on an acne treatment formulated using “organic components from nature.” That’s basically the mantra of this repair cream. It doesn’t exude the most masculine of scents (floral), and the petite bottle design fits right in with your girlfriend’s skincare products. But those drawbacks take a backseat to the incredible potency of the complex that raises bumps to the surface to instantly cure them rather than allow them to rest underneath the skin. The cream’s special blend of ingredients adds to its uniqueness with a special mixture that exploits rejuvenation in the most non-traditional ways. For instance, Bee venom is a key element used to increase blood circulation and distribute nutrients to the skin for moisturization and nutriment. Not to brag, but we did warn you of its amazing skincare benefits in our bizarre grooming ingredients breakdown. Just sayin’!
$31.98 at Amazon.com
DHC Renewing AHA Face Cream
Beauty is a vanity only afforded to those that are willing to pay for it. So if funds allow, it doesn’t hurt to spoil oneself with this skin renewing solution. It relies on chemical compounds known as alpha hydroxy acids, which is one of the most popular methods of removing scars by sloughing away dead skin cells and balancing skin tone. Most reviewers praise the cream for its lightweight feel and softening effect, along with its other skincare benefits including redness and wrinkle prevention. Some also claim the miniature bottle offers enough to purge your face of blotches in a matter of days, though that’s always dependent on your skin type.
$42.50 at Amazon.com
Related Reading:
- Banish Acne Scars For Good With Help From These Skincare Treatments
- Acne Prone Skin? Here's What You Need To Achieve A Clear Complexion
AskMen may get paid if you click a link in this article and buy a product or service. To find out more, please read our complete terms of use.
Show comments
Comments
Share your opinion
Your name
Skincare
Health & Sports News
Which Childhood Fears Follow You Into Adulthood?Read More
Tech News
Here’s Why NASA Needs You to Start Measuring TreesRead More
Fashion Trends
Hot & Not Tats (According to Tattoo Artists)Read More
Recommended Reading
Appearance
Banish Nasty Cold Sores With These Proven Remedies
Appearance
Keep Your Body Blemish-Free With These Skin Tag Remedies
Appearance
Summer Heat Ruining Your Complexion? Try These Treatments
Appearance
The Best Organic Grooming Products For Men
Appearance
Don't Turn Her Off With Your Feet - Pick Up These Fungus-Treating Solutions ASAP