Minapharm
HOME
CORPORATE
About MINAPHARM
Partners
History
Investors علاقات المستثمرين
Corporate Responsibility
Contact Us
Media Center
Corporate News
Scientific News
In the News
PRODUCTS
PATIENT INFO-SERVICES
Osteoporosis
Deep Venous Thrombosis
Hepatitis C
Baldness
Angina
Dry Eye
Dementia
Anemia
Glaucoma
R & D
Home»Magazine»Refresh Your Mind
Refresh your Mind
Baldness
Baldness (Alopecia)
Baldness or alopecia is the term applied for an area, which has lost hair. Androgenetic alopecia, which is also called common baldness, is the most common form of alopecia. Common baldness is genetically determined and androgen dependant.
Women may also show baldness but it is usually milder with only diffuse thinning.
Other causes of alopecia include Alopecia Areata, inflammatory alopecia, traumatic alopecia and also hair loss in patients using chemotherapy.
Hair loss affects men both physically and psychologically.
Fortunately hair loss is not a helpless situation. Baldness can be treated. You can now treat bald visitors of your pharmacy and take the opportunity of receiving our special offer.
Hair Back
Hair growth after treatment with Hair Back
Hair Back a topical solution for hair regrowth manufactured by Minapharm. The active ingredient is minoxidil, topical solution 2%.
Hair Back works by dilating blood vessels of the scalp and restoring the blood circulation to the hair follicles.
This effect is catalyzed by minoxidil sulfotransferase enzyme found to be localized in the hair follicle transforming minoxidil to its active form minoxidil sulphate.
This enlargement lengthens the period that hair is actively growing, allowing the hair to become longer and thicker. The difference in appearance is gradual, the hair grows naturally over time.
However, Hair Back is a treatment not a cure. So for continued response or further progress to be possible it is essential to use it continuously. Hair Back was found to elicit cosmetically acceptable hair growth in those with patchy alopecia areata.
A recent study showed that minoxidil decreased the duration of alopecia caused by chemotherapy.
Usage
Use Hair Back twice daily on healthy dry scalp. Massage scalp gently for 2-5 minutes with fingertips using rotatory motion. The first improvement is noticed at the end of initial treatment of 4 months.
For maximum results, usage for 8-12 months is required. To maintain improvement and prevent future loss, continuing usage is suggested.
Packaging
Hair Back is presented in a bottle of 100 ml scalp lotion at a price of 48 pounds.
Hair Back is economic, being the least expensive minoxidil preparation in the Egyptian market.
Special offer
Get a free Hair Back bottle for every 20 bottles you buy (offer available for a limited time).
Contact us now and get benefit of our special offer.
Email: mailbox@minapharm.com
Magazine Sections
Behind The Scenes
Refresh your Mind
Corporate News Read More »
Minapharm's 2018 Summer Internship: A Great Success
Minapharm Awarded as One of the Top Companies in Egypt
Our Subsidiary ProBioGen celebrates the 20th anniversary: €20 million investment in Mammalian Manufacturing Expansion
Scientific News Read More »
Expert panel No 65. “Best Practice in Hair Regrowth”
The meeting was chaired by Prof. Abdel-Shakour EL MOHAMADY. Minapharm started
New Horizons in sport medicine
New Horizons in sport medicine were discussed in a meeting
” Hair Regrowth In-Vivo & In-Vito; Futuristic View”
Minapharm launched a new form of Hair Plus back; Topical
Latest Products Read More »
MINAPHARM announces the launch of the first minoxidil 5% foam in Egypt, Hair Plus Back Topical foam, prescribed in various types of alopecia and hair loss.
Newsletter Sign-up
Stay connected, subscribe to our newsletter for news and updates.
Office Address
Address: El-Bardissi St., 2T Takseem Asmaa Fahmy St., Heliopolis, Cairo - Egypt.
Phone: (+202) 2414-3170/1/2/3/4/5
Fax: (+202) 2414-3179
Email: mailbox@minapharm.com
Social Media
© 2019 MINAPHARM Pharmaceuticals. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Site Map