Dupilumab (Dupixent) for Moderate to Severe Atopic Dermatitis | The Medical Letter, Inc.
Wednesday, April 24, 2019
Login/Register Subscribe | Donate | Search
Essential to your practice
Search
Not a subscriber
My Account
My Orders
Logout
The Medical Letter on Drugs and Therapeutics
FROM
ISSUE
1519
April 24, 2017
View Complete Issue Table of Contents 2017
Dupilumab (Dupixent) for Moderate to Severe Atopic Dermatitis
Subscribers: Log in to read full article. Not a subscriber? Subscribe or purchase article.
April 24, 2017 (Issue: 1519)
The FDA has approved dupilumab (Dupixent – Sanofi/Regeneron), a subcutaneously-injected fully human monoclonal antibody, for treatment of adults with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that has not responded to topical therapies. It can be used with or without topical corticosteroids.
MECHANISM OF ACTION — Dupilumab binds to the IL-4 receptor alpha subunit shared by interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 receptors, inhibiting the signaling of these two cytokines, which are thought to be the drivers of atopic dermatitis, asthma, and possibly other allergic diseases.1
STANDARD TREATMENT — Application of moisturizers, emollients, and barrier creams can reduce the need for pharmacologic treatment of atopic dermatitis. Low-potency topical corticosteroids are generally used for treatment of mild atopic dermatitis that fails ... more
Show References Hide References
M Kraft and M Worm. Dupilumab in the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. Expert Rev Clin Immunol 2017; 13:301.
Crisaborole (Eucrisa) for atopic dermatitis. Med Lett Drugs Ther 2017; 59:34.
Drugs for allergic disorders. Med Lett Drugs Ther 2017; 59 (in press).
LA Beck et al. Dupilumab treatment in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. N Engl J Med 2014; 371:130.
EL Simpson et al. Two phase 3 trials of dupilumab versus placebo in atopic dermatitis. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:2335.
A Blauvelt et al. Long-term management of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (AD) with dupilumab and concomitant topical corticosteroids (TCS): a 1-year, randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial (CHRONOS). Presented at the 75th American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) Annual Meeting, Orlando, FL, March 3-7, 2017. Abstract 5267.
MJ Cork et al. Pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of dupilumab in a pediatric population with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis: results from an open-label phase 2a trial. Presented at the 75th American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) Annual Meeting, Orlando, FL, March 3-7, 2017. Abstract 5279.
Approximate WAC. WAC = wholesaler acquisition cost or manufacturer's published price to wholesalers; WAC represents a published catalogue or list price and may not represent an actual transactional price. Source: AnalySource® Monthly. April 5, 2017. Reprinted with permission by First Databank, Inc. All rights reserved. ©2017. www.fdbhealth.com/policies/drug-pricing-policy.
The Medical Letter is a subscriber-funded nonprofit organization that publishes critical appraisals of new prescription drugs and comparative reviews of drugs for common diseases.
Would you like to read the rest of this article? Gain access below.
Subscribe
Subscriptions to The Medical Letter on Drugs and Therapeutics include:
Print version published and mailed biweekly (26 issues/year)
Unlimited online access to current and past issues (1988 - present)
Mobile App for iOS, Android, and Kindle Fire
FREE online per issue CME/CE
Subscribe
Purchase this article:
Title: Dupilumab (Dupixent) for Moderate to Severe Atopic Dermatitis
Article code: 1519b
Electronic, downloadable article - $45
Add to cart
Gain access through your organization
Ask your librarian to consider an Institutional Subscription to The Medical Letter.
Recommend to your librarian
THE MEDICAL LETTER
Current Issue
Previous Issues
The Medical Letter
Treatment Guidelines
La Lettre Médicale
Reference Tables
Most Read Articles
Purchase Single Article
Sample Issues
Free Trial
ABOUT US
Our Mission
Reader Testimonials
SUBSCRIPTIONS & PRODUCTS
The Medical Letter
Continuing Education
Exams
Drugs of Choice
Drug Interactions
Site Licenses
Content Licensing
Mobile App
RECOMMEND TO YOUR LIBRARY
CONTACT US
© 2019 The Medical Letter, Inc. FAQs Site Map Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Contact Us Corrections & Clarifications Follow us: