About Copper Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
About Copper Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Copper was known to some of the oldest civilizations on record, and has a history of use that is at least 10,000 years old. A copper pendant was found in what is now northern Iraq that dates to 8700 BCE.
The therapeutic benefits of copper and copper rich alloys to human health have been recognised throughout history since pre-Roman times and the copper bracelets were worn in by the Egyptians, Romans and Greeks. With the re-awakening of New Age and alternative healing therapies, the products are reaching an ever wider and more appreciative public
For Hundreds of years, people have worn copper bracelets and other copper jewellery, such as copper anklets, copper rings and other copper items to help relieve joint pain caused from tendonitis and arthritis.
Copper is a natural element and is essential in all plants and animals. Copper is carried mostly in the bloodstream in a plasma protein called ceruloplasmin. In the human body, Copper is found in a variety of enzymes, including the copper centres of cytochrome c oxidase and the enzyme superoxide dismutase (containing copper and zinc). In addition to its enzymatic roles, copper is used for biological electron transport.
Because of its role in facilitating iron uptake, copper deficiency can often produce anamia-like symptoms (deficiency of red blood cells and/or haemoglobin). This results in a reduced ability of blood to transfer oxygen to the tissues, causing tissue hypoxia. Signs of possible copper deficiency include anaemia, low body temperature, bone fractures and osteoporosis, low white blood cell count (the cells that help fight infection), irregular heartbeat, loss of pigment from the skin, and thyroid disorders.
Now you can have the benefits of copper with the benefits of magnets in copper magnetic bracelets.
When wearing a copper magnetic therapy bracelet, you can be sure to have a fashion statement combine with the benefits of magnetic therapy. We carry copper magnetic bracelets and copper bracelets that are completely manufactured from start to finish in a process where we can control the quality of copper used. We ensure that our copper magnetic bracelets and copper bracelets uses high quality copper. All solid copper bio magnetic bracelets, copper magnetic therapy bracelets have different styles to enhance the design and the visual effect. We are sure that you will find something that fits your style and needs of copper cuff magnetic bangles, copper link bracelets, and any other copper jewellery on the pages below. Remember that all of the copper bracelets, copper cuff bracelets and other copper bio magnetic jewellery in this on-line store are made using the latest techniques. We think that our quality copper bracelets, copper magnetic bracelets and other copper magnetic jewellery are the most competitively priced you can find anywhere on the internet. The copper bangles (the copper magnetic bangles) are made of the same high standards as the rest of our copper bracelets. Our pure copper bracelets and copper magnetic bracelets are checked for quality control before being packed carefully to ensure you get the perfect magnetic bracelet.
Out of our range of metal links magnetic bracelets (Which are made of titanium bracelets, stainless steel bracelets and alloys bracelets), the copper magnetic bracelets is the second most popular after the titanium magnetic bracelets, here in the UK and abroad.
New blog posting on our site talks about some of the issues raised above.
About Copper
Copper is a reddish-colour metal, which has its characteristic colour because it reflects red and orange light and absorbs other
frequencies in the visible spectrum, due to its band structure.
Copper occupies the same family of the periodic table as silver and gold, since they each have one
s-orbital electron on top of a filled electron shell. This similarity in electron structure makes
them similar in many characteristics. All have very high thermal and electrical conductivity, and all are malleable metals.
Copper Magnetic Bracelets
SHOPPING BASKET
INFORMATION
KNOWLEDGE CENTRE
Magnetic Bracelets for Arthritis Pain
Magnetic Therapy in History
About Magnetic Therapy
About Magnets
OUR RANGE
• About Magnetic Bracelets with Gemstones
• About All-Magnets Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
• About Alloys Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
• About Copper Magnetic Therapy Bangles / Bracelets
• About Copper Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
• About Gold / Stainless Steel Magnetic Bracelets
• About Magnetic Body Wraps / Support
• About Magnetic hematite Bracelets / Wraps
• About Magnetic Therapy Bracelets for golfers
• About Magnetic Therapy Care for Dogs & Cats
• About Magnetic Therapy Necklaces / Chains
• About Magnetic Therapy Rings & Earrings
• About Silver Magnetic Therapy Bangles / Bracelets
• About Stainless Steel Expanding Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
• About Stainless Steel Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
• About Titanium Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Books about magnetic therapy
HOW TO / FAQ's
TROUBLESHOOTING & BRACELET MAINTENANCE
How to measure your wrist
Health & Safety
MAGNETIC BRACELETS BUYERS GUIDE
More on Which Magnetic Jewellery?
Resizing Service for Links Bracelets
Blog Categories
BLOG HOME PAGE
Site's Special Offers
New Bracelets
Bracelet of the Month
General Help
Information about the site
Interesting products
In the news
Sport
Magnets and health
Healing Questions
Disclaimer
No product on this website is sold as a medical device.
We STRONGLY recommend seeking advice from conventional medical professional for any medical condition.
We have received emails over the years that magnets did help ease or treat certain medical conditions. Those testimonials have not been substantiated with medical or scientific evidence.
ABOUT
About us / Why us
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Site Map
Testimonials
SERVICES
Guarantees & Returns
Shipping Costs
Free Gift Wallet
Rewards Points
Resizing Tool
Secured Shopping
HELP
Troubleshooting
How to Measure Wrist
Advanced Search
Knowledge Centre
WikiMagnets
Blog
PAYMENTS ACCEPTED
All major cards
Pay Pal
Secured Site
TRUSTED SHOPPING
NOTE: For magnetic bracelets reviews, see the individual product pages
MPS is a UK based store with FREE UK postage, and post from the United Kingdom to the following countries: ALL EUROPEAN UNION COUNTRIES: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden. OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES: Belarus, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Gibraltar, Greenland, Guernsey, Iceland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Liechtenstein, Macedonia, Moldova, Norway, Russia, Serbia, Switzerland. ASIA: Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Israel, Hong Kong, Japan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates. AUSTRALASIA: Australia, New Zealand. SOUTH & CENTRAL AMERICA: Argentina, Belize, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Trinidad & Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela. NORTH AMERICA: USA, Cayman Islands, Canada.
MPS is a Registered Trademarks owned by Adva Trading Ltd.
Copyright © 2004 - 2019 Adva Trading Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Order Line: 0800 977 6053
HOME
Magnetic BraceletsContact UsAbout UsBest Return Policy EverRewards Points
TITANIUM
All Titanium BraceletsTitanium Bracelets For LadiesTitanium Bracelets For MenDouble Strength Titanium BraceletsBlack Titanium BraceletsGunmetal Titanium BraceletsGold & Silver Titanium BraceletsTitanium Copper BraceletsIonic Titanium Bracelets
STAINLESS STEEL
All Stainless Steel BraceletsStainless Steel Bracelets for HERStainless Steel Bracelets for HIMDouble Strength Stainless Steel BraceletsExpanding Stainless Steel Bracelets
COPPER
Pure Copper BanglesPure Copper Links Bracelets
BANGLES
Hi PowerPure CopperGothicGold PlatedTitanium, Stainless Steel & Silver
SPORT
Silicone BandsFor GolfersExpanding Bracelets (No Clasp)Supports with Magnets
OFFERS MORE CATEGORIES
SETS: Bracelet & NecklaceNecklacesExpanding (No Clasp)Extra Long BraceletsNew ArrivalsGifts ServicesBrowse by RangeMost Popular
FAQ's
FAQ'sKnowledge CentreMPS Blog
Sign In | Register | Wish List | Go to Checkout