Dupixent (Dupilumab) | MyEczemaTeam
Many features of MyEczemaTeam will not work unless you enable JavaScript support in your browser.
Sign up / Log in
IMMUNOMODULATOR/BIOLOGIC
Dupixent (Dupilumab)
99 people have indicated they have taken Dupixent
Overview
Dupixent is a prescription medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat adults with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in cases where traditional therapies are not safe or effective. Dupixent may be referred to by its drug name, Dupilumab.
Dupixent is an immunomodulator, or drug that modulates the immune system. It is considered a biologic drug, and more specifically, an interleukin-4 (IL-4) receptor alpha antagonist. Dupixent is a genetically engineered molecule believed to work by blocking IL-4 and IL-13, chemical messengers involved in autoimmune attacks. Dupixent prevents IL-4 and IL-13 from signaling the immune system to attack the tissues.... read more
How do I take it?
Dupixent is administered as a subcutaneous injection every other week after initial loading doses.
Dupixent is available as a prefilled single-use syringe.
Side effects
The FDA-approved label for Dupixent lists common side effects including injection site reactions, eye problems, and herpes simplex infections such as cold sores.
Rare but serious side effects listed for Dupixent can include severe eye problems, hypersensitivity reactions, and worsening asthma.
For more details about this treatment, visit:
Dupixent – Sanofi
https://www.dupixent.com/
Dupixent for Atopic Dermatitis FAQ – National Eczema Association
https://nationaleczema.org/eczema/treatment/dup...
Dupixent (Dupilumab) Questions
Question:
Dupixent... trying to get approval through insurance co. Anyone using it? If so what have been results. I have severe facial eczema
Answer:
Rob1n, My daughter has been dealing with a very sever case which has just been getting worse over the last 3 years. We have tried all the topical creams, we were on cyclosporine which she maxed out the dose and uad no relief. From that point we fought wirh the insurance to try dupixent.… read more
ask a question about Dupixent
view all questions about Dupixent view all conversations about Dupixent
Join today!
Start meeting others who understand
We never share your personal information with anyone.
Continue with Facebook
Sign up with your email
Already a Member? Log in
×
Welcome back!
Log in to gain access to the thousands of comments being shared on MyEczemaTeam.
log in
×
ABOUT ECZEMA TYPES DIAGNOSIS CAUSES SYMPTOMS TREATMENTS RESOURCES
Learn more...ABOUT ECZEMA TYPES DIAGNOSIS CAUSES SYMPTOMS TREATMENTS RESOURCES
MyEczemaTeam is a social network and online support group for those living with eczema. Get the emotional support you need from others like you, and gain practical advice and insights on managing treatment or therapies for eczema. MyEczemaTeam is the only social network where you can truly connect, make real friendships, and share daily ups and downs in a judgement-free place.
Quick Links
Q+A Treatments A-Z Resources Provider directory Are you a provider? Crisis
About Us
What is MyEczemaTeam? Partner with us Terms of service Press/News Privacy policy Cookie policy
Help With This Site
Getting started FAQ Community guidelines Contact us
Get the MyEczemaTeam mobile app
© 2019 MyHealthTeams. All rights reserved.
MyEczemaTeam is not a medical referral site and does not recommend or endorse any particular Provider or medical treatment.
No information on MyEczemaTeam should be construed as medical and/or health advice.