Tick Infestations: Causes, Signs, and Prevention
Newsletter
Tick Infestations
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on August 15, 2017 — Written by Darla Burke
Causes
Signs
Control and prevention
Seeking help
Ticks and the diseases they carry
Ticks are small parasitic organisms that live in wooded areas and fields. These arachnids need blood from humans or animals to survive. Ticks tend to be carriers of various serious diseases, which they may transmit to the people they bite.
Examples of diseases that ticks may transmit include:
Lyme disease (especially transmitted by adult deer ticks)
Rocky Mountain spotted fever
tularemia
babesiosis (a malaria-like illness transmitted by certain ticks)
ehrlichiosis
anaplasmosis
tick-borne relapsing fever
Symptoms vary among the different diseases, but they may include fever or chills, body aches, headaches, rashes, and nausea. These symptoms can occur in a person years after they were bitten.
What causes tick infestations?
Tick infestations can occur when just one tick is brought into the home.
It’s possible for you to come into contact with a tick if there are wooded or brushy areas near your home and you’re outdoors when the weather is warm. The tick will attach itself somewhere on your body and bury its head into your skin.
Ticks can attach themselves to any part of the body, including:
the groin
under the arms
inside the ears
in the hair
inside the belly button
behind the knee
Ticks can also attach themselves to your pets, especially dogs. Since ticks are usually small, it can be hard to see them on your body or in your pet’s fur.
After a tick is brought into your home, a tick infestation may occur once the tick reproduces. Ticks can lay their eggs in different parts of the home. However, they typically lay their eggs near baseboards, window and door surrounds, furniture, edges of rugs, and curtains.
What are the signs of a tick infestation?
During a tick infestation in your home, you might find a large number of ticks on yourself or on your pet. Since ticks require blood from people or animals to survive, they will attach themselves to you, your family members, or your pet.
Ticks move quickly across the body, but they prefer areas that are warm and moist. They are often found in the armpits, groin, or scalp. Once the tick has found a place it likes, it will bite you and burrow its head firmly into your skin. Unlike other insect bites, this bite is painless.
You should always check your body — and that of your children and pets — after being in an outside area known to have ticks. Make sure to examine any brown or black spots. Don’t just focus on the areas where ticks are commonly found. Ticks range in size from 1 to 2 millimeters (mm) in diameter (the size of a poppy seed) to as large as 10 mm in diameter (the size of a pencil eraser).
You may also have a tick infestation in your home if you or one of your family members develops a tick-borne illness. The effects of these illnesses can range from mild to severe. Many of them have similar symptoms, such as:
fever
chills
body aches and pains similar to the flu
headaches
fatigue
a rash
Many symptoms of these illnesses are similar to those of other health conditions. Rashes that develop with tick-borne illnesses may make it easier for your doctor to make a diagnosis. However, sometimes the rashes disappear after other symptoms occur and the illness progresses.
You should see your doctor right away if you have symptoms and have been in areas where ticks live, or if your home was recently infested. They can properly diagnosis a tick-borne illness. Early diagnosis is essential to prevent any long-term complications associated with these diseases.
How can you control and prevent tick infestations?
Ticks that aren’t attached to the skin can be vacuumed up. The vacuum bag should be tightly sealed and immediately discarded to a location outside of your home. You should check your clothing and your body after vacuuming to ensure that no ticks are on you.
You may also use spray or powder pesticide to help kill ticks inside your home.
Although it’s possible to control a tick infestation once it occurs, it’s far better to prevent an infestation from happening in the first place.
If you live or spend time in an area where ticks are common, you should check yourself and your children before returning indoors. You can also wear long-sleeved shirts and tuck your pants into your socks while hiking on trails or in wooded areas. Try to use insect repellant that works on ticks. You may also buy certain types of clothing that contain insect repellant in the fabric.
To remove a tick that is already biting you or a family member, grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible using tweezers or a tissue. Then pull it out slowly and steadily without twisting. Before pulling the tick from the skin, don’t use Vaseline, oil, or alcohol to try to kill the tick. These methods may cause the tick’s mouth to remain in your body, which can lead to infection.
After it’s removed, , the tick can then be drowned in rubbing alcohol, suffocated in a sealed bag or between layers of tape, or flushed down the toilet for extermination.
To prevent ticks from infesting areas near your home, try to make the surrounding property unsuitable for ticks. Ticks don’t like sunny, dry environments and can’t thrive in short vegetation. Keeping weeds and brush away from your home and maintaining your lawn will help you get rid of ticks near your property.
If your home is surrounded by heavy brush or wooded areas where ticks are commonly found, you can spray these areas with pesticides to help eliminate ticks. Most pesticides will be effective with one or two applications. You should also clean up any areas around your home that may attract rodents (such as mice and rats), since they often carry ticks.
Regularly check your pets for ticks and apply tick prevention. Ticks are more commonly found on animals that are allowed to roam outside. If you find a tick on your pet, remove it and call your veterinarian. Your pet may need treatment for a tick bite. You can also buy certain medications for your pet that prevent ticks from attaching.
When should you contact your doctor?
You should call your doctor if a tick bites you and you develop symptoms of a tick-borne illness. One of the first signs will be a rash, accompanied by a fever. Antibiotics are typically used to treat tick-borne illnesses, as many are bacterial. Your doctor will be able to give you the correct diagnosis and prescribe the right antibiotic for treatment.
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on August 15, 2017 — Written by Darla Burke
related stories
Is It Lyme Disease? Check Your Symptoms
Tick Removal
Colorado Tick Fever
Tick Bites: Symptoms and Treatments
Everything You Need to Know About Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
READ THIS NEXT
Is It Lyme Disease? Check Your Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Xixi Luo, MD
Lyme disease is a serious tick-borne disease with a wide range of symptoms. The sooner you get treated for this disease, the better your outcome. For…
READ MORE
Tick Removal
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, Ph.D, MSN, RN, CRNA
Ticks are small, brown parasites that are known for carrying disease and that can attach to your skin and suck your blood.
READ MORE
Colorado Tick Fever
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Colorado tick fever is a viral infection transmitted through a bite from an infected tick. Learn about Colorado tick fever symptoms, diagnosis, and…
READ MORE
Tick Bites: Symptoms and Treatments
Medically reviewed by Judith Marcin, MD
Ticks are very common in the United States. Tick bites are often harmless, but they can cause allergic reactions and can spread diseases like Lyme…
READ MORE
Everything You Need to Know About Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
Medically reviewed by Judith Marcin, MD
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is most often seen in the southeastern United States. Here's what you need to know to prevent this tick-borne disease.
READ MORE
What Is Arbovirus and How It Treated?
Medically reviewed by Stacy Sampson, DO
There are more than 600 known arboviruses. Find out how they're spread, symptoms to watch for, treatment options, and more.
READ MORE
What's Causing My Rash?
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
Skin rashes can be both unsightly and uncomfortable. Some are caused by minor irritations or allergies, while others are related to more serious…
READ MORE
Ehrlichiosis
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD
Ehrlichiosis is a bacterial illness that causes flu-like symptoms that include fever and aches. It can cause very serious complications if left…
READ MORE
Zoonosis
Medically reviewed by Kaitlyn T. Walsh, DVM
Learn about zoonosis, including how zoonotic diseases can be transferred from animal to human.
READ MORE
Doxycycline, Oral Tablet
Medically reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, Drug Information Group
Doxycycline is an oral drug used to treat infections and acne, and to prevent malaria. It's sold as a generic medication or under the brand-names…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 19934 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582