Infected eczema: Symptoms, treatment, and prevention
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Infected eczema: What you need to know
Last reviewed	 Fri 29 September 2017	 Last reviewed	Fri 29 Sep 2017
By Jenna Fletcher
Reviewed by Jill Seladi-Schulman, PhD
Table of contents
Causes
Symptoms
Complications
When to see a doctor
Treatment
Natural treatments
Prevention
Eczema is a term used to describe a wide variety of conditions that cause red, itchy, and inflamed skin. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis.
Eczema is primarily found in infants, and most children outgrow eczema by the time they are about 10 years old. In cases where eczema persists into adulthood, people are typically able to manage their condition with medicated creams.
Sometimes, eczema may become infected. Typically, this happens when a virus or bacteria gets into open blisters or wounds at the site of an eczema rash.
It is important for people with eczema or caregivers of children with eczema to know what causes eczema to become infected, the signs and symptoms, and what treatment options are available.
Causes
Infectioned eczema may be caused by fungal infections, viruses like herpes, or bacteria.
Eczema infections are caused by a variety of potential viruses, bacteria, or fungi. The following are some of the more common microbes responsible for causing infected eczema:
Staphylococcus aureus (Staph infection)
fungal infections, such as ringworm (tinea)
herpes simplex virus
Staphylococcus aureus is a type of bacteria found on the skin of nearly all people with eczema. It also lives on the skin of about 20 percent of healthy adults.
Staphylococcus aureus thrives on weeping or broken skin. In cases of a staph infection, eczema spreads more quickly and makes healing more difficult.
Ringworm is a common source of fungal infection in eczema. Ringworm can be found all over the body and typically appears as isolated patches. It can also occur between the toes, where it is known as athlete's foot.
Fungal infections are more likely to occur in people with eczema, but they are relatively common in all individuals.
Herpes simplex can also cause infections in people with eczema, so it is a good idea for people with eczema to avoid people with cold sores, where possible.
A secondary infection of the skin caused by the herpes simplex virus is called eczema herpeticum. If it is not correctly diagnosed and treated with antiviral therapy, it can cause serious consequences, even leading to blindness or death.
Most people that have infected eczema will have an open sore in the affected area. The open sores usually develop because a person has been scratching their skin.
Do probiotics for eczema work?
Can eating probiotic foods help get rid of painful, itchy eczema? We look at the evidence.
Read now
Symptoms
Infected eczema is easy to recognize because the area will usually appear more inflamed.
A person with infected eczema may also experience the following:
burning
extreme itching
fluid drainage
blistering
white or yellow pus
In more advanced cases, a person may experience more severe symptoms including:
fever
chills
aches
fatigue
If anyone experiences any of these symptoms at the site of eczema, they should seek medical intervention to treat the infection.
Complications
It is recommended that infected eczema is examined by a doctor as soon as possible, so that any complications can be effectively prevented.
Infected eczema is a complication of eczema, but it can produce its own problems and issues.
Some common complications of infected eczema may include:
prolonged eczema flare - the infection needs to be treated before the eczema will heal
increased itchiness and blisters
growth problems in children using steroids
eventual resistance to topical steroids with prolonged use
scarring
Infected eczema can also lead to more dangerous complications. For example, if left untreated, a serious staph infection may cause a blood infection known as sepsis.
In general, the younger the person is, the more likely they are to develop complications from an infection. Infants and young children are at particular risk of developing blood or bacterial infections, so a doctor should examine them as soon as possible.
When to see a doctor
If a child or infant develops a rash, it is a good idea to contact a doctor to rule out more serious infections.
If a person has chronic eczema flares, they should see their doctor if they develop a fever, experience chills, have reduced energy, or develop signs of infection, such as oozing blisters and excessive itchiness.
Treatment
Treatment for infected eczema varies based on the type of infection present. If the cause of the infection is a virus, a doctor may prescribe an antiviral medication.
In cases of bacterial infections, a doctor may choose to use either an oral or topical antibiotic. Doctors are likely to recommend creams for mild cases and prescribe oral antibiotics for more advanced cases. A doctor may also prescribe a steroid cream to reduce associated swelling and redness.
Fungal infections require antifungal creams or medication. Similarly, a steroid cream may also help with a fungal-infected eczema rash. Some antifungal creams that may help with the infection are available over the counter.
Natural remedies
Evening primrose or tea tree essential oil may help to treat infected eczema.
Some people and caregivers may want to supplement medication with natural alternatives to treat or prevent infections from coming back.
People seeking natural remedies for infected eczema may choose to try the following:
essential oils, such as evening primrose and tea tree
herbal supplements for eczema flares
natural soaps and creams with emollients
probiotics while taking antibiotics
oatmeal baths to help soothe and dry the eczema
Prevention
A person can help prevent infected eczema by reducing eczema flares and avoiding scratching. Also, those with eczema should keep their skin as clean as possible. When flares occur, a person should follow the recommended treatment plan to help manage and reduce the flare.
For flares occurring in folds or naturally more moist areas of the skin, care should be taken to keep the area dry and clean.
Outlook
Infected eczema is a relatively easy condition to avoid. One of the most common ways an infection occurs is through scratching and scraping the eczema rash open, leaving an open sore on the skin that bacteria or viruses can enter.
Children who have eczema should be monitored and reminded not to scratch. If infected, a person should seek medical treatment to prevent the infection from getting worse.
Related coverage
Childhood eczema, asthma may be relieved with new treatment New research uses a combination of two anti-inflammatory compounds in an attempt to stop the development of the so-called atopic march. Read now
What is scrotal eczema? Learn about scrotal eczema, a form of eczema that affects the scrotum. We examine the symptoms, treatment options, and management tips for this condition. Read now
What is dyshidrotic eczema? Learn about dyshidrotic eczema, a common form of this skin condition that causes blisters. We look at the symptoms and treatment options. Read now
Differences between eczema and psoriasis What are the similarities and differences between psoriasis and eczema regarding appearance, location, itching, and age of occurrence? Learn here. Read now
What's to know about eczema? Eczema is a condition that causes a person’s skin to become inflamed, itchy, red, cracked, and rough. The most common type of eczema is called atopic dermatitis. There is no cure for eczema, but it is possible to manage the condition. This article looks at symptoms in children and adults, types, and treatment options. Read now
email email
print
share share
Atopic Dermatitis / Eczema
Dermatology Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses Psoriasis
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Fri 29 September 2017.
Visit our Atopic Dermatitis / Eczema category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Atopic Dermatitis / Eczema.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Atopic eczema. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.eczema.org/atopic-eczema
Bush, L. M., & Schmidt, C. E. (n.d.). Staphylococcus aureus infections. Retrieved from http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/bacterial-infections/staphylococcus-aureus-infections
Francis, N. A., Ridd, M. J., Thomas-Jones, E., Butler, C. C., Hood, K., Shepard, V., …Sullivan, F. (2017, March-April). Oral and topical antibiotics for clinically infected eczema in children: A pragmatic randomized controlled trial in ambulatory care. The Annals of Family Medicine, 15(2), 124-130. Retrieved from http://www.annfammed.org/content/15/2/124.full
Liaw, F.-Y., Huang, C.-F., Hsueh, J.-T., & Chiang, C.-P. (2012, December). Eczema herpeticum: A medical emergency. Canadian Family Physician, 58(12), 1358-1361. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3520662/
Lübbe, J. (2003). Secondary infections in patients with atopic dermatitis [Abstract]. American Journal of Clinical Dermatology, 4(9), 641-654. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12926982
Other conditions related to eczema. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://nationaleczema.org/eczema/related-conditions/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Fletcher, Jenna. "Infected eczema: What you need to know." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 29 Sep. 2017. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319561.php>
APA
Fletcher, J. (2017, September 29). "Infected eczema: What you need to know." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319561.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Popular in: Atopic Dermatitis / Eczema
Top 12 natural remedies for eczema
What are the different types of eczema?
Eczema on the lips: Causes and treatment
How to stop eczema itching at night
What to know about ear eczema
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319561.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);