Athlete's foot - myDr.com.au
Toggle navigation
News
Conditions
Conditions
ADHD
Allergic rhinitis
Alzheimer's disease
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Autism
Bowel cancer
Breast cancer
Cancer
Chesty coughs
Chickenpox
Chlamydia
Cholesterol
Coeliac disease
Common cold
Constipation
COPD
Depression
Diabetes
Diverticulitis
Epilepsy
Fatty liver
Fibromyalgia
Genital herpes
GORD (reflux)
Gout
Haemorrhoids
Hair loss
Heart attack
Hepatitis
Hiatus hernia
High blood pressure
HIV and AIDS
Impotence
Menopause
Migraine
Neuropathic pain
Osteoporosis
Pain
Peptic ulcers
Pneumonia
Prostate cancer
Scabies
Schizophrenia
Sciatica
Shingles
Sinusitis
Skin cancer
Stroke
Thyroid gland disorders
Urticaria (hives)
Vaginal thrush
Vasectomy
Vertigo
Vulval problems
Whooping cough
Medicines
Medicines
Augmentin
Avil
Chlorsig
Daklinza
Duromine
Endep
Endone
Harvoni
Levlen
Lyrica
Mersyndol
Metrogyl
Panadeine Forte
Panefcortelone
Primolut
Restavit
Sovaldi
Stemetil
Viagra
Zentel
Find a Medicine
Medicines Centre
Symptoms
Symptoms
Back pain
Childhood rashes
Common cold
Depression
Fever
Fibromyalgia
Heart attack
Heel pain
Herpes
Leg ache
Leg cramps
Sciatica
Shingles
Stroke
Vaginal thrush
Vertigo
More symptoms
Lifestyle
Healthy Lifestyle
Addictions
Alcohol
Cholesterol
Exercise
Healthy eating
Healthy Weight
Heart health
Immunisation
Sleep
Smoking
Stress
Health Centres
Nutrition & Weight
Sports & Fitness
Tools
Medical Dictionary
Medical Dictionary
Health Tools
Baby Due Date Calculator
Basal Metabolic Rate Calculator
Body Mass Index (BMI) Calculator
Calories Burned Calculator
Child Energy Requirements Calculator
Daily Calcium Requirements Calculator
Daily Fibre Requirements Calculator
Ideal Weight Calculator
Infectious Diseases Exclusion Periods Tool
Ovulation Calculator
Smoking Cost Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Waist-to-hip Ratio Calculator
Risk Tests
Depression Self-Assessment
Erectile Dysfunction Tool
Macular Degeneration Tool
Osteoporosis Risk Test
Prostate Symptoms Self-Assessment
Skin & Hair
Athlete's foot
Athlete's foot
Athlete's foot is a common skin infection of the feet caused by a fungus. The fungus causes an itchy, red or flaky rash between the toes or soles of the feet that can become cracked and painful. Athlete’s foot is also known as tinea pedis, which means ‘tinea of the foot'.
Although the name suggests otherwise, you don’t have to be an athlete to develop athlete’s foot – the fungus can infect anyone.
The fungus grows in areas that are warm and humid, particularly the skin between the toes and sometimes the soles of the feet.
Fungal infections of the feet have affected people for centuries, with the condition first described in the late 1800s and early 1900s. They have become more common over the last several hundred years due to the increased use of shoes that don’t allow the feet to breathe, which creates an ideal environment for the fungus to grow.
Causes of athlete's foot
There are a number of species of fungus that can cause athlete's foot. The most common species (called Trichophyton) can be found in warm or humid environments, which includes many places in Australia. Wearing poorly ventilated shoes and sweaty socks can allow the feet to become a breeding ground for the fungus.
The fungus can spread from person to person through walking barefoot on contaminated floors in places like shared showers, changing rooms, or swimming pools. The fungus can also survive in socks and clothing, or on used towels.
Athlete's foot symptoms
The symptoms of athlete’s foot affect the feet, particularly the toes. Any toe can be affected, but the skin between the outermost toes (the fourth and fifth toes) is most commonly involved. Fungal infections can sometimes spread to the soles of the feet.
Symptoms of athlete’s foot can include:
A moist, itchy, red or flaky rash between the toes;
Cracked, scaly or peeling skin;
Stinging and burning of the skin between the toes or on the soles of the feet if the skin becomes cracked or split;
Itchy blisters between the toes (or on the sides of the top of the feet) that leave scales when they burst; and
A dry, scaly rash covering the soles and extending up the sides of the feet (commonly called ‘moccasin tinea’).
Symptoms in advanced stages
For most people, the condition is an uncomfortable but temporary nuisance. However, if athlete’s foot is not treated, the condition may become more serious.
In advanced stages, some of the following symptoms may occur:
Bleeding from cracked skin;
White, soggy skin in the webbing between the toes;
An unpleasant smell;
Oozing from blisters;
Pain in the affected areas;
Thickened, crumbly or discoloured toenails if the fungus spreads to the nails (although fungal infections of the nails can also occur without any symptoms of athlete's foot).
Because athlete's foot can lead to cracks in the skin, bacteria are able to enter the skin and cause bacterial infections. The skin may become severely inflamed (called cellulitis), although this is more common in particular people, such as the elderly and people with diabetes, weakened immune systems, or chronically swollen legs, or those who have had veins removed from their legs (such as for heart bypass surgery).
Other sites of fungal infections
Fungal infections can also affect other areas of the body where conditions are warm and humid, such as the groin (‘jock itch’), the scalp or skin folds (such as under the breasts).
Risk factors for athlete’s foot
There are a number of risk factors for athlete’s foot including:
Wearing closed shoes that don’t allow the feet to breathe;
Sweating heavily from the feet;
Not drying feet and toes properly after showering;
Not changing socks frequently
Living in a warm or urban environment;
Letting bare feet touch the floor in shared showers and changing areas;
Having a weakened immune system (due to certain medicines or diseases);
Age – athlete’s foot mostly affects adults; and
Gender – men are generally more likely to develop athlete’s foot than women.
Diagnosis of athlete’s foot
Athlete’s foot is usually diagnosed on the basis of its typical symptoms. However, tests may be necessary in some cases if your doctor is uncertain about the cause of foot problems, or to rule out other skin conditions (such as psoriasis or dermatitis).
Tests can include:
Examining the affected areas under an ultraviolet light (some species of fungus glow under UV light);
Taking a skin scraping or nail clippings from the affected foot to check for fungi.
If the doctor suspects there may be a bacterial infection present, they make take a swab of the affected area
Basic treatments for athlete's foot
There are a number of simple steps you can take to help treat (and prevent) athlete’s foot:
Carefully wash your feet and between your toes every day;
Thoroughly dry your feet and in between your toes before you put on your socks and shoes;
Wear thick cotton socks to soak up sweat and change them daily;
Wear shoes made of leather or other breathable material (shoes made from materials like vinyl don't allow the feet to breathe, so they become warm and humid, which allows the fungus to grow;
Keep your shoes dry and sweat-free (allow shoes to dry in the sun if possible); and
Wear open sandals or thongs/flip-flops in shared changing rooms, swimming pools and showers, and whenever possible to allow air to circulate around the feet.
Medical treatments for athlete’s foot
Antifungal treatments help to relieve symptoms and clear the infection. These treatments can include:
Antifungal creams, gels, ointments, sprays or powders – these medicines are available over the counter from pharmacies or by prescription and are applied to the feet and in between the toes. It’s important to use these medicines according to their instructions:
Apply creams and ointments to clean, completely dry skin
Apply enough medicine to cover the affected area
Gently rub in creams/ointments until no residue is visible on the skin
Apply medicines for the recommended length of time to make sure the fungus is eradicated (some medicines need to be used for up to 1-2 weeks after the symptoms have disappeared); or
Antifungal tablets – your doctor may prescribe a course of antifungal tablets if you have severe athlete’s foot that covers a large area, or if it has not responded to antifungal products applied to the skin. Tablets might also be recommended if the fungal infection has spread to the toenails.
When should I consult my doctor?
Early treatment can ensure athlete’s foot is correctly diagnosed and treated to prevent complications. For most people, keeping feet clean and dry – plus applying antifungal products to the skin – will be enough to clear the infection. However, you should see your doctor if your symptoms don’t get better despite treatment, or if there is any redness, increased swelling or bleeding. You should also seek medical advice if you have any of the underlying health conditions described earlier (e.g. diabetes, a weak immune system or chronic swelling of the legs).
Last Reviewed: 26 May 2016
myDr
References
1. Tinea (Published November 2015). In: eTG Complete. Melbourne: Therapeutic Guidelines Limited; March 2016. http://online.tg.org.au/complete/ (accessed 25 May 2016).
2. MayoClinic.com. Athlete's foot (updated 24 Jan 2014). www.mayoclinic.com/health/athletes-foot/DS00317 (accessed 25 May 2016).
3. DermNet NZ. Tinea pedis. Available at: www.dermnetnz.org/fungal/tinea-pedis.html (accessed 25 May 2016).
4. DermNet NZ. Athlete's foot. Available at: www.dermnetnz.org/fungal/athletes-foot.html (accessed 25 May 2016).
5. Medscape. Tinea pedis. Available at: www.emedicine.medscape.com/article/1091684-overview (accessed 25 May 2016).
6. The International Foundation For Dermatology. Management of tinea pedis. Available at: www.ifd.org/protocols/tinea-pedis (accessed 25 May 2016).
myDr
myDr provides comprehensive Australian health and medical information, images and tools covering symptoms, diseases, tests, medicines and treatments, and nutrition and fitness.
Related Articles
Fungal nail problems
Fungal nail infections: risk factors, symptoms, treatment and how to prevent fungal infections of th
Fungal skin infections
Areas commonly affected by fungal infections include the skin, scalp, feet, fingernails and toenails
Jock itch (tinea cruris)
An itchy rash in the groin area could be jock itch. Find out the causes, symptoms and treatment, plu
Ringworm
Ringworm is a type of tinea - a fungal skin infection. The main symptom is round patches of dry, sca
Advertisement
Medicine Finder
Latest News
Video: Scarce fertility awareness for young people
Video: All it takes is 5 nights of bad sleep
Video: Poor diet responsible for 1 in 5 deaths
Video: Flu awareness
Video: Measles - global outbreak
Video: Private Health Insurance reforms
This web site is intended for Australian residents and is not a substitute for independent professional advice. Information and interactions contained in this Web site are for information purposes only and are not intended to be used to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Further, the accuracy, currency and completeness of the information available on this Web site cannot be guaranteed. Tonic Digital Media Pty Ltd, its affiliates and their respective servants and agents do not accept any liability for any injury, loss or damage incurred by use of or reliance on the information made available via or through myDr whether arising from negligence or otherwise. See Privacy Policy and Disclaimer.
2001-2019 myDr.com.au © | All Rights Reserved
About Us
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Sitemap