Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women - Regenepure Intense Volumizing Hair Conditioner
Home
Shop
Usage
FAQs
Blog
CONTACT US
Home
Shop
Usage
FAQs
Blog
CONTACT US
Home / Uncategorized / Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women
Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women
$29.95
Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women contains the only clinically proven and FDA approved topical ingredient to treat hair loss and regrow hair in women.
Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women quantity
Add to cart
Category: Uncategorized
Description
Reviews (0)
How to use
Description
Hair Regrowth Treatment for Women. Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women contains the only clinically-proven and FDA approved topical ingredient to treat hair loss and regrow hair in women. The breakthrough precision mist applicator includes a pivoting nozzle that delivers the 5% minoxidil solution directly into the scalp in the hair loss area. It is convenient and the most-effective way to regrow hair in women with once-a-day application. The Regenepure Precision Minoxidil Spray fits flawlessly into your beauty routine whether you decide to apply it in the morning or at night, the small convenient packaging allows you to travel with it so you do not miss a dose. Step out of the shadow and embrace the new you with fuller and thicker hair in just 12 weeks. Stop hair loss and begin your journey to growing beautiful hair that is all yours. NDC # 71290-813-02
Recommended for women with hair loss or thinning hair. Works with any hair type, length or texture. For optimal results, use in conjunction with the full Regenepure line.
Warning: For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. If eye contact occurs, rinse immediately with clean water. Keep out of reach of children. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease.
Is 5% Topical Minoxidil More Effective Than 2% Topical Minoxidil in Treatment of Female Hair Loss?
In a 48-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, multicenter trial compared the efficacy and safety of 5% topical Minoxidil with 2% topical Minoxidil and placebo in the treatment of female pattern hair loss[1]. Topical Minoxidil solution 2% stimulates new hair growth and helps stop the loss of hair in men with androgenetic alopecia and women with female pattern hair loss. Results can be variable, but historic experience suggests that higher concentrations of topical Minoxidil may enhance efficacy.
In this clinical study of 381 women (ages 18-49) with female pattern hair loss, at week 48, the 5% topical Minoxidil group demonstrated statistical superiority over the 2% topical Minoxidil group in the patient assessment of treatment benefit. Both concentrations of topical Minoxidil were well tolerated by the women in this trial without evidence of systemic adverse effects.
Female Hair Loss – Facts:
– Over 30 million women in the U.S. alone are affected by hair loss[2]
– An estimated 40% of Americans suffering from hair loss are women[3]
– Hair loss in women is a serious life altering condition that affects one’s self-image and emotional well-being
– Women’s hair loss is not as openly recognized as men’s hair loss therefore information along with treatment options are quite limited and not easily available
– Women’s hair loss can be triggered by a multitude of conditions and circumstances (In men, about 90% of all cases are caused by hereditary male pattern baldness)
Minoxidil 5% Topical Treatment on Androgenetic Alopecia in Women
Minoxidil was first used in tablet form as a medicine to treat high blood pressure (an antihypertensive). It was noticed that patients being treated with minoxidil experienced excessive hair growth (hypertrichosis) as a side effect. Further research showed that applying a solution of minoxidil directly to the scalp could also stimulate hair growth. The amount of minoxidil absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream is usually too small to cause internal side effects.
Women with diffuse androgenetic alopecia can use minoxidil and it actually seems to be more effective for women compared to men. Many dermatologists prescribe minoxidil 5% for women with androgenetic alopecia if used under their supervision. Some small clinical trials have been conducted on 5% minoxidil for androgenetic alopecia in women showing that indeed the 5% solution is significantly more effective in both retaining and regrowing hair than the 2% solution.
In clinical studies of mostly white women aged 18-45 years with mild to moderate degrees of hair loss, the following response to minoxidil was reported: 19% of women reported moderate hair growth after using minoxidil for 8 months (19% had moderate regrowth; 40% had minimal regrowth). This compares with 7% of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using the placebo, the liquid without the active ingredient in it, for 8 months (7% had moderate regrowth, 33% had minimal regrowth).
The efficacy of this treatment method vary from person to person, but many women have found that using the 5% minoxidil treatment have made a positive difference in their hair and their self-esteem.
Minoxidil Spray Application and Benefits
Regenepure 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women is formulated for women’s use only. Additionally, this hair loss treatment will help women who suffer from androgenetic alopecia to retain and regrow hair. One of the benefits of this breakthrough spray treatment, vis-a-vis droppers and foams, is that it delivers the solution directly onto the scalp with no mess. The fine mist applicator ensures absolute accuracy, targeting thinning areas with ease. The direct contact spray will also help provide the scalp with the oxygen and nutrients it needs to stimulate healthy hair growth and regrowth. It is also important to note that the Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray works best when used in conjunction with the Regenepure DR Hair and scalp treatment shampoo, to help cleanse and detoxify hair follicles; allowing for optimal minoxidil absorption.
Reviews
There are no reviews yet.
Be the first to review “Regenepure Precision 5% Minoxidil Spray for Women” Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Your rating Rate… Perfect Good Average Not that bad Very poor
Your review *
Name *
Email *
Time limit is exhausted. Please reload the CAPTCHA. seven + = 11
How to use
Apply one ml. (6 sprays) once a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area. Using more or more often will not improve results. Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth, or hair loss will begin again. Wash hands thoroughly after use.
Related products
REGENEPURE PRECISION 5% MINOXIDIL
$29.95 Order Now
REGENEPURE MINOXIDIL COMBO
$84.00 Order Now
REGENEPURE COMPLETE
Rated 5.00 out of 5
$45.00 Order Now
INTENSE VOLUMIZING BIOTIN CONDITIONER
$25.00 Order Now
terms & conditions privacy policy
2017 Biotin Conditioner, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Statements on this site have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The products on this site are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Disclaimer: The information including any, advice and recommendations on the website is intended solely as a general educational aid. It is not intended as medical or healthcare advice, or to be used for medical diagnosis or treatment, for any individual problem. It is also not intended as a substitute for professional advice and services from a qualified healthcare provider familiar with your unique facts. Always seek the advice of your doctor or other qualified healthcare provider regarding any medical condition and before starting any new treatment. Your use of the site is subject to the additional disclaimers and caveats that may appear throughout the website. We assume no responsibility for any consequence relating directly or indirectly to any action or inaction you take based on the information, services, or other material on the website. While we strive to keep the information on the website accurate, complete, and up-to-date, we do not give any assurances, and will not be responsible for, any damage or loss related to the accuracy, completeness, or timeliness of the information on the website.