FDA Approves New Formulation Of Migraine Headache Treatment | Medicine Blog
Medicine Blog
Skip to content
Home
← Allergy Treatment
Vulvovaginitis – Infection of the vulva →
FDA Approves New Formulation Of Migraine Headache Treatment
Posted on September 25, 2011 by Sonika
Imagine that it is 5 a.m. and you wake with a migraine headache. What can you take that will start to work fast on the pain? Or what if your migraine makes you nauseous or causes vomiting? What can you do to relieve your pain when you can’t keep a pill down? Or what if you feel a migraine coming on and the pain of this migraine grows worse by the minute. What can you do to stop it before it takes over?
Migraines can vary from person to person and from attack to attack, and therefore, the treatment needs for each attack may also vary. Oral treatments can be effective at treating migraine pain for many patients, but for certain types of migraine attacks, such as those described above, an alternative delivery system may be more appropriate.
Another Option for
Migraine Pain
Today, there is good news for migraine sufferers. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently approved a new formulation of Imitrex (sumatriptan succinate) Injection. The new formulation gives people an easy way to take a 4mg dose of the product. With the push of a button, patients can treat their migraines quickly and easily using the Imitrex STATdose System. According to a study published in the journal Headache, 88 percent of patients found the product easy to use. In another study of patients with moderate to severe migraine pain, 67 percent reported headache relief within one hour and 11 percent of patients reported relief starting at 10 minutes.
Migraines affect 28 million Americans. The treatment needs for migraines can vary from attack to attack, and being able to effectively treat a migraine can be the difference between debilitating pain and getting on with your daily life. That is why it is important for many migraine sufferers to have different treatment options.
“The availability of this product provides a simple and effective treatment option for patients who experience certain types of migraines,” said Robert Kaniecki, M.D., director of The Headache Center at the University of Pittsburgh and assistant professor of neurology. “Migraine patients who experience nausea or vomiting with their headaches often require an injection, since oral treatments are typically not well tolerated by these patients. Additionally, injections bypass the digestive system and enter the bloodstream quickly, which is especially important for treating certain migraine attacks, such as morning and rapidly escalating migraines.”
Kimberly McGonigle suffers from migraines. As a busy mother and professional, she knows first-hand that it is important to have options for treating migraine headaches. “I’ve suffered with migraines for the last 15 years and do not respond well to oral treatments due to the nausea I experience with each attack, so I use Imitrex Injection,” said Kimberly. “With the injection, I can quickly and easily treat my migraines, so that I can get on with my life.”
About The Imitrex
STATdose System
Imitrex Injection is available in the easy-to-use STATdose System, which allows patients to administer a 4mg dose of the product with just the push of a button. Until now, patients did not have an easy way to administer doses lower than 6mg. The system includes two small, disposable cartridges pre-filled with a single dose of medicine and an easy-to-use autoinjector pen that allows patients to give themselves a single dose of the medication. The delivery system enables patients to treat their migraines quickly and conveniently while avoiding direct contact with a needle or a syringe.
Important Safety Information About Imitrex
Imitrex is approved for the acute treatment of migraines with and without aura in adults. Patients should not take Imitrex if they have certain types of heart disease, history of stroke or TIAs, peripheral vascular disease, Raynaud syndrome, or blood pressure that is uncontrolled. Patients with risk factors for heart disease, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes or being a smoker, should be evaluated by a doctor before taking Imitrex. Very rarely, certain people, even some without heart disease, have had serious heart-related problems. Patients who are pregnant, nursing or taking medications should talk to their doctor.
Related posts:
New Insight-Transformation of Migraines Causes Fibromyalgia
The Four Phases of Migraines
A Wake-Up Call From The Heart
The Diagnosis and Treatment of Sleep Apnea
Gingivitis Symptoms and Treatment
Psoriasis Treatment & How To Deal With The Illness
Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatment
Tinnitus – Causes and Treatment
This entry was posted in Medicine for you. Bookmark the permalink.
← Allergy Treatment
Vulvovaginitis – Infection of the vulva →
Comments are closed.
Common Infections Caused By Candida The Neurological Causes of Alzheimer’s Disease A Better Understanding Of Arthritis Acid Reflux – Is It Just Indigestion? Interesting Aspects of Fibromyalgia Symptoms “Bird Flu”: What You Need To Know ozdorovimsa.ru Sinus Infection Symptoms – What Should You Look For? Cancer Survivors Move Beyond The Cure Parasite Cleanse Avian Bird Flu Poses Serious Threats To Humans Allergies – Allergy Shots Graves’ Disease and Hyperthyroidism Cancer Patient Beats the Odds, Hopes to Inspire Others What are the Symptoms and Treatments for Genital Warts? Tips On Interacting With The Blind Alzheimer’s Disease — How To Slash Your Chances Of Getting It Check Your Colon Transient Time The Facts About Bad Breath Help Advance The Next Generation Of Cancer Drugs Gospel Great Byron Cage Raises His Voice To Raise. Awareness About Chronic Kidney Disease The In and Out of Std’s Mental Illness: Getting Our Minds Around The Facts New Survey Reveals Insights To Successful Asthma Management Adult Attention Deficit Disorder Dealing With The Loss Of A Loved One The Different Types Of Incontinence Symptoms Explained Nail Fungus – Do I Treat It? Pure Water Hydration in an Avian Flu Pandemic – The Value of Planning in Northern Virginia and the Washington D.C. Metro Area Hemorrhoids – Description, Symptoms and Treatment Chronic Fatigue — The Facts You Should Know Finally a great site for dealing in disaster management Get Rid Of Bad Breath Herpes – Protect Yourself From Genital Herpes Cancer Remission: What Is It Exactly? Research Results In New Drugs And Cancer Treatments Finger Nail Fungus The Seven Stages of Alzheimer’s Disease Stress, immune system and age Congestive Heart Failure and the Heart Healthy Diet Mold Allergies – Learn About The Symptoms Acid Reflux – Treating It With Medication Psoriasis More Than A Skin Problem Know More About Arthritis, and How it Can Affect You
Search for:
Categories
LAST news
Medicine for you
Archives
September 2011
September 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
Search for:
Medicine Blog
sitemap