Imitrex New FDA Drug Approval | CenterWatch
Search
Menu
Clinical Trials
Overview
Search Clinical Trials
Patient Notification Service
Overview of Clinical Trials
Volunteering for a Trial
Understanding Informed Consent
Post Clinical Trials
Drug Information
Overview
FDA Approved Drugs
Patient Resources
Overview
Health Associations
Other Patient Organizations
Blogs and Support Groups
Glossary
Social Media
Professional Resources
Overview
Webinar Training Pass
White Papers
Research Center Profiles
Industry Provider Profiles
Market Research Services
Training Guides
Books
Events
TrialWatch Services
Social Media
News & Publications
CWWeekly
The CenterWatch Monthly
Research Practitioner
Renew your subscriptions
Subscribe today
Shop
JobWatch
About Us
About CenterWatch
Contact Us
Advertise
FAQ
Social Media
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Home » Drug Information » FDA Approved Drugs » 1997
Toggle navigation
View By:
Year
Company
Conditions
Areas
Names
Imitrex (sumatriptan) nasal spray
The following drug information is obtained from various newswires, published medical journal articles, and medical conference presentations.
Company:
GlaxoSmithKline
Approval Status:
Approved November 1997
Specific Treatments:
migraine
Therapeutic Areas
Neurology
Family Medicine
Find Related Trials for The Following Conditions
Migraine and Cluster Headaches
General Information
The nasal spray form of Imitrex (sumatriptan) for the treatment of migraine has been approved for marketing. Imitrex has been available in the U.S. since 1993 in injection form, and since 1995 in tablet form.
Imitrex Nasal Spray is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks in adults with or without aura. Imitrex Nasal Spray is not intended to prevent or reduce the number of migraine attacks, nor is it for use in the management of basilar or hemiplegic migraine. Imitrex should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established.
Imitrex, a nonsedating, nonnarcotic medication, is the only migraine therapy that treats the multiple symptoms characteristic of migraine, including severe recurrent pain usually on one side of the head often accompanied by one or more of the following: nausea and sensitivity to light and sound. Imitrex is equally effective when taken at any point during a migraine headache.
Clinical Results
Imitrex Nasal Spray has been studied in clinical trials with more than 3,700 patients to treat more than 10,000 attacks. In these studies, 55% to 64% of patients achieved headache relief at two hours with a 20 mg dose.
In four out of five studies, there was a significantly greater percentage of patients with headache response at two hours in the 20 mg group when compared with the lower dose groups (5 mg and 10 mg).
Side Effects
In clinical trials for the 20 mg nasal spray formulation, the most common side effects included bad/unusual taste, and nausea and/or vomiting. Most side effects are mild and transient.
Copyright © 1995-2019 CenterWatch.
Contact Us
Privacy
Glossary
Site Map