Achilles tendinitis - myDr.com.au
Toggle navigation
News
Conditions
Conditions
ADHD
Allergic rhinitis
Alzheimer's disease
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Autism
Bowel cancer
Breast cancer
Cancer
Chesty coughs
Chickenpox
Chlamydia
Cholesterol
Coeliac disease
Common cold
Constipation
COPD
Depression
Diabetes
Diverticulitis
Epilepsy
Fatty liver
Fibromyalgia
Genital herpes
GORD (reflux)
Gout
Haemorrhoids
Hair loss
Heart attack
Hepatitis
Hiatus hernia
High blood pressure
HIV and AIDS
Impotence
Menopause
Migraine
Neuropathic pain
Osteoporosis
Pain
Peptic ulcers
Pneumonia
Prostate cancer
Scabies
Schizophrenia
Sciatica
Shingles
Sinusitis
Skin cancer
Stroke
Thyroid gland disorders
Urticaria (hives)
Vaginal thrush
Vasectomy
Vertigo
Vulval problems
Whooping cough
Medicines
Medicines
Augmentin
Avil
Chlorsig
Daklinza
Duromine
Endep
Endone
Harvoni
Levlen
Lyrica
Mersyndol
Metrogyl
Panadeine Forte
Panefcortelone
Primolut
Restavit
Sovaldi
Stemetil
Viagra
Zentel
Find a Medicine
Medicines Centre
Symptoms
Symptoms
Back pain
Childhood rashes
Common cold
Depression
Fever
Fibromyalgia
Heart attack
Heel pain
Herpes
Leg ache
Leg cramps
Sciatica
Shingles
Stroke
Vaginal thrush
Vertigo
More symptoms
Lifestyle
Healthy Lifestyle
Addictions
Alcohol
Cholesterol
Exercise
Healthy eating
Healthy Weight
Heart health
Immunisation
Sleep
Smoking
Stress
Health Centres
Nutrition & Weight
Sports & Fitness
Tools
Medical Dictionary
Medical Dictionary
Health Tools
Baby Due Date Calculator
Basal Metabolic Rate Calculator
Body Mass Index (BMI) Calculator
Calories Burned Calculator
Child Energy Requirements Calculator
Daily Calcium Requirements Calculator
Daily Fibre Requirements Calculator
Ideal Weight Calculator
Infectious Diseases Exclusion Periods Tool
Ovulation Calculator
Smoking Cost Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Waist-to-hip Ratio Calculator
Risk Tests
Depression Self-Assessment
Erectile Dysfunction Tool
Macular Degeneration Tool
Osteoporosis Risk Test
Prostate Symptoms Self-Assessment
Exercise & Fitness
Achilles tendinitis
Achilles tendinitis
What is Achilles tendinitis?
Achilles tendinitis, also known as Achilles tendonitis, is inflammation of the Achilles tendon. The Achilles tendon connects your calf muscles to the back of your heel bone. It allows extension of your foot downward, away from your body, which lets your heel lift off the ground as you move forward when walking. Every time you take a step you rely on your Achilles tendon.
What causes Achilles tendinitis?
Achilles tendinitis can be caused by:
overly tight calf muscles;
excessive running up hill or down hill;
a sudden increase in the amount of exercise, e.g. running for a longer distance;
wearing ill-fitting running shoes, such as those with soles that are too stiff; or
wearing high heels regularly, or changing between high heels all day and flat shoes or low running shoes in the evening.
Overuse is common in walkers, runners, dancers and other athletes who do a lot of jumping and sudden starts/stops, which exert a lot of stress on the Achilles tendon.
Continuing to stress an inflamed Achilles tendon can cause rupture of the tendon - it snaps, often with a distinctive popping sound. A ruptured Achilles tendon makes it virtually impossible to walk. An Achilles tendon rupture is usually treated by surgical repair or wearing a cast.
Symptoms of Achilles tendinitis
Pain anywhere along the tendon, but most often on or close to the heel.
Swelling of the skin over the tendon, associated with warmth, redness and tenderness.
Pain on rising up on the toes and pain with pushing off on the toes. If you are unable to stand on your toes you may have ruptured the tendon. This requires urgent medical attention.
A painful heel for the first few minutes of walking after waking up in the morning.
Stiffness of the ankle, which often improves with mild activity.
What you can do in the first 48 hours of an Achilles injury
Rest the affected foot and avoid weight-bearing activities.
Use ice packs to help ease the swelling, pain and redness.
Compress the affected foot and ankle with an elastic compression bandage.
Elevate the affected foot as much as possible while the inflammation settles.
If you cannot walk properly and think you may have ruptured the tendon, see a doctor straight away. Similarly, if you have a sudden feeling like you have been kicked in the back of the leg, seek medical advice.
Rehabilitation for Achilles tendinitis
See your doctor or sports physiotherapist for further advice. You may be prescribed anti-inflammatory medicine and a rehabilitation programme. Sometimes, the ankle may be put into a walking boot or cast to immobilise the ankle in the short term.
Gentle calf stretching is the first stage of rehabilitation. Don’t stretch to the point of pain.
Strengthening the Achilles tendon is the second stage. Your doctor or sports physiotherapist will be able to advise you on exercises for this.
Special exercises called eccentric calf raises, that contract the calf muscle as it is lengthening (during the lowering part of the movement), are the standard exercise used in the rehabilitation of Achilles tendon injuries.
Sometimes a heel raise or orthotics may be useful.
As symptoms resolve, resume normal weight-bearing activities gradually.
Avoid running until all tenderness has gone. Swimming or cycling in low gear are good replacement activities.
Preventing Achilles tendinitis
Do strengthening and stretching exercises to keep calf muscles strong and flexible.
Keep your hamstring muscles flexible by stretching.
Warm up and stretch adequately before participating in any sports.
Always increase the intensity and duration of training gradually.
Do not continue an exercise if you experience pain over the tendon.
Wear properly fitted running and other sports shoes, including properly fitted arch supports if your feet roll inwards excessively (over-pronate).
When to see a doctor
Consult a doctor if you feel pain over your heels, or the back of your legs, that worsens with exercise.
Last Reviewed: 27 May 2014
myDr
References
1. Rheumatological conditions of the ankle region (revised October 2010). In: eTG complete. Melbourne: Therapeutic Guidelines Limited; 2014 Mar. http://online.tg.org.au/complete/ (accessed Jun 2014).
2. MayoClinic.com. Achilles tendinitis (updated 2 Oct 2012). http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/achilles-tendinitis/basics/definition/con-20024518 (accessed Jun 2014).
3. American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Achilles tendinitis (updated Jun 2010). http://orthoinfo.aaos.org/topic.cfm?topic=a00147 (accessed Jun 2014).
4. US National Library of Medicine; National Institutes of Health. MedlinePlus. Achilles tendinitis (updated 11 Aug 2012). http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/001072.htm (accessed Jun 2014).
myDr
myDr provides comprehensive Australian health and medical information, images and tools covering symptoms, diseases, tests, medicines and treatments, and nutrition and fitness.
Related Articles
Calf strain or tear
Calf strain or tear is caused by overstretching or tearing of either of the 2 calf muscles. It usual
Posterior tibial tendon injury
Posterior tibial tendonitis occurs when the posterior tibial tendon becomes inflamed or torn, causin
Advertisement
Medicine Finder
Latest News
Video: All it takes is 5 nights of bad sleep
Video: Poor diet responsible for 1 in 5 deaths
Video: Flu awareness
Video: Measles - global outbreak
Video: Private Health Insurance reforms
Video: Parkinson's disease awareness
This web site is intended for Australian residents and is not a substitute for independent professional advice. Information and interactions contained in this Web site are for information purposes only and are not intended to be used to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Further, the accuracy, currency and completeness of the information available on this Web site cannot be guaranteed. Tonic Digital Media Pty Ltd, its affiliates and their respective servants and agents do not accept any liability for any injury, loss or damage incurred by use of or reliance on the information made available via or through myDr whether arising from negligence or otherwise. See Privacy Policy and Disclaimer.
2001-2019 myDr.com.au © | All Rights Reserved
About Us
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Sitemap