Body and Soul Remedies
Is Light Therapy for You?
Acne and Light Therapy
Depression and Light Therapy
Blue and Red Light
More
How Does LED Light Therapy Work?
How Effective Is Light Therapy in Treating Anxiety?
Blue, Red and White Light Therapy
Blue Light As An Acne Treatment
Depression and Light Therapy
Does Vitamin D Give You Energy?
10 Ways Red Light Therapy Can Help Your Skin
Is Red Light Therapy Save?
Light Therapy and Anti-Aging
Light Therapy For Babies: What Every Parent Should Know
How Red Light Therapy Can Relieve Joint Pain
Red Light Laser Therapy For Hair Loss
How Light Therapy Helps Me Get 7 Hours of Healthy Sleep
The Effects of Light on the Brain
How Does Red Light Therapy Work?
Red Light Therapy for Rosacea: Things You Need To Know Now
Search
Sign in
Welcome! Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password? Get help
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
A password will be e-mailed to you.
brightenyourmood.com
Is Light Therapy for You?
Acne and Light Therapy
Depression and Light Therapy
Blue and Red Light
More
How Does LED Light Therapy Work?
How Effective Is Light Therapy in Treating Anxiety?
Blue, Red and White Light Therapy
Blue Light As An Acne Treatment
Depression and Light Therapy
Does Vitamin D Give You Energy?
10 Ways Red Light Therapy Can Help Your Skin
Is Red Light Therapy Save?
Light Therapy and Anti-Aging
Light Therapy For Babies: What Every Parent Should Know
How Red Light Therapy Can Relieve Joint Pain
Red Light Laser Therapy For Hair Loss
How Light Therapy Helps Me Get 7 Hours of Healthy Sleep
The Effects of Light on the Brain
How Does Red Light Therapy Work?
Red Light Therapy for Rosacea: Things You Need To Know Now
Home The Top 12 Best Light Therapy Product Reviews
The Top 12 Best Light Therapy Product Reviews
Which Light Therapy Product Works Best for You?
Acne, Insomnia and Depression are arguably some of the most common and widespread conditions afflicting millions of people worldwide.
Many of the traditional or mainstream treatments used to cure these conditions can have significant side effects such as increased depression, mania, chronic fatigue, and complex skin conditions.
Light therapy is quite a new treatment that is now being used to alleviate sleep disorders, mild to moderate acne, jetlag as well as seasonal and non-seasonal depression.
What Constitutes a Light Therapy System?
Light therapy lamps are made of fluorescent bulbs contained in an encasing box. The lamp comes with a light diffusing screen, which serves to reflect light onto surfaces. You can place the lamp anywhere close to where you sleep, eat, read or work from.
Many modern lamps are portable, allowing you to move them around the house and even during your travels.
For all three conditions, nothing much is needed other than just seating with your head and body oriented toward the light, with the eyes open but without directly looking into the light.
Different lamps emit different light intensities. Lamps with a 2,500 lux require sitting in front of the light for much longer while those with 10,000 lux require shorter exposure.
Winter Fatique and Depression
acne
sleeplessness
Effectively Fighting the Winter Blues
Some people tend to experience the ‘winter blues’ more intensely than others do. Depression, fatigue, lethargy and overeating are all symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). The causes of SAD are unknown. But, most studies attribute it to changes in the brain’s chemical balance caused by a lack of bright light.
The body’s circadian rhythms are controlled by the production of hormones. Light is particularly important in triggering the production of these hormones.
Low levels of light experienced over the winter can disrupt the production of hormones that control mood, appetite and sleep.
Illumination, through light therapy, triggers the production of feel good hormones that elevates the mood, sleep and appetite. People who suffer from SAD require exposure to artificial light for about 30 minutes each morning to be able to feel energized throughout the day.
For the therapy to be effective, the lamp must illuminate at least 2,000 lux. The light adjusts your body clock, allowing you to wake up gradually and to get on with your day without depressive symptoms.
Edit
Product
UV Filters
10,000 Lux
@ 11'' or more
Programm
-able
Portable
Rating out of 5
$
Carex Health Brands
Yes Yes No Yes 4.3 $$
Verilux Happy Light Delux Energy Lamp Yes Yes Yes Yes 4.4 $$$
VLumie Sunrise Clock Lamp
Yes Yes Yes Yes 4.4 $$$
Omega Sun Yes Yes Yes Yes 3.8 $$
Philips HF3330 goLITE BLU
Yes No Yes No 4.3 $$$$
Recommended Products in Detail
Carex Health Brands Day-Light Classic
The Carex Health Brands Day-Light Classic therapeutic lamp is recommended by the Center for Environmental Therapeutics. It is built to alleviate the symptoms of seasonal affective disorder (SAD), and non-seasonal depression. The lamp illuminates up to 10,000 LUX of broad light, offering the ultimate bright light therapy.
The unit is conveniently designed to work as a task lamp to project the light downward. The diffusing screen is specially built to filter out 99% of harmful ultra violet rays, offering a safe, home treatment for seasonal and non-seasonal depression, jet lag and sleep problems.
The Carex Health Brands Day-Light Classic is effective when used for just 20-30 minutes each day and offers a glare-free source of light. The lamp features high-value ballasts to ensure that the fluorescent lights do not flicker.
The lamp’s adjustable legs allow you to position the light at a convenient angle and height as recommended by light therapy experts. The Day-Light Classic illuminates a glare-free light, thanks to its white diffusing screen. Three 36-watt tubes radiate a warm light that is free of blue rays, which can be potentially harmful when you are overexposed.
Experts recommend this bright lamp therapy due to its polycarbonate lens that filter out up to 99% of UV rays. At the same time, the Carex Health Brand Day-Light Classic features three lights to provide a bright light of 10,000 LUX. There is an option for two lights if you desire a soft rather than a bright glow. Finally, a built-in handle fixed at the back of the unit makes it super easy to conveniently move the lamp from one position to another.
Adjustable angle and legs
Glare-free
​Screen lens filters 99% of UV rays
10,000-LUX white light for ultimate therapy
​5-year warranty (limited)
Clinically approved
Buy on AMAZON
Verilux Happy Light Delux Energy Lamp
The Verilux HappyLite Deluxe Energy Lamp is ideal for people who are sensitive to bright light glare and heat, which are typically emitted by other light therapy units. The lamp is designed for the comfort of the human eye.
Its patent bulbs and ballast allow you to instantly turn on the lights and eliminates irritating flicker upon lighting. The light is glare-free and guarantees comfort as you use the lamp. With the recommended 10,000 lux, the Verilux HappyLite Deluxe Energy Lamp not only offers adequate bright light; it also emits low light heat to make each session comfortable and safe. This unit is especially ideal if you have SAD and you are sensitive to bright light.
This unit has a super modern design allowing the screen to illuminate light across a wider angle. The wide illumination makes it easy to use when undertaking any task including reading, eating, or working on the computer. The sleek and compact design does not take up too much space, making it convenient to work on the same desk where the lamp is placed. It also features an attached handle making it portable and easy to mount on top of a table or on a wall when convenient.
This Verilux light therapy lamp is approved under the Product Safety on Environment, Life and Health and undergoes audits throughout the year to uphold its safety standards. Most consumers have experienced higher energy levels and diminished symptoms of SAD by using the lamp for at least 3 days a week each morning.
Glare-free, low heat light
10,000-lux natural day light spectrum
2 patent bulps
Electronic ballast for a flicker free effect
​Product Safety on Environment, Life and Health approved
Measures 3.6kg; 19.5 X 13 X 4 inches
​Table top and wall mount
​Compact, modern design
2-year warranty
Buy on AMAZON
VLumie Sunrise Clock Lamp
The Sunrise Clock Lamp is a dawn simulator that wakes you up gradually by emitting pleasantly natural light in increments.
Designed in an elliptical contemporary design, this lamp is not only stylish; it is also proven to be effective at alleviating the symptoms of SAD.
The natural light is emitted gradually over 15, 20,30,45,60 or 90-minute increments, prompting your body to reduce the production of sleep hormones. At the same time, the light also cues the body to produce hormones such as cortisol to enable you to wake up energized.
The SunRise Clock Lamp Lumie 250 is particularly helpful in the dark winter months and works to boost your mood and energy level, essentially fighting off seasonal depression.
The lamp filters out light and sounds that could prevent you from sleeping. Instead, it comes with wave sounds and dimmable lights to allow you to fall asleep easily.​
3 Alarm Settings
Digitally Tuned FM Radio
Replacement Bulps
Natural Sunlight
Dimm-able Lights
Snooze
Power Failure Backup
Buy on AMAZON
Omega Sunlight SAD Light Therapy
The Omega Sunlight SAD light therapy device is sleek and compact, making it easy to use at your own convenience. The lamp emits up to 10,000 lux of safe bright light to combat the effects of SAD.
Treating seasonal depression requires more than just sitting in front of an ordinary lamp. Light therapy experts recommend blue light wavelength to effectively alleviate the depressive symptom.
The Omega Sunlight SAD light therapy provides a short blue light with a wavelength of 470 nm. This, combined with the 10,000-lux intensity light, completely eradicates the symptoms of SAD such depression, food cravings, difficulty sleeping and low energy. All you need is just 15-minute exposure to the blue light to feel the rejuvenating effects. The bright 10,000-lux light is also effective at regulating sleep patterns so you can go to bed and wake up feeling energized.
The Omega light measures just 5.5’’ x 2.5’’x 1.5’’ so you can carry it and use it at your most convenient time and location. So, whether you are reading, working on the computer or enjoying a meal, you can just flick the lights on to feel your mood lift. The device is fully programmable so you can adjust the intensity of the light and the length of the therapy session.
Contemporary, Sleek Look
Fully Programmable and Portable
Emits Blue Light Wavelength
Clinically Approved to Combat SAD
10,000 Lux Bright Light
UN-Filtered Light
Buy on AMAZON
Philips HF3330 goLITE BLU Energy SAD Light
The Philip goLITE BLUE is a conveniently compact, lightweight and portable light therapy lamp that emits a light as bright as the sun. The natural daylight spectrum of light is perfect for combating SAD symptom.
This light therapy lamp is designed to emit blue light that is easily absorbed by the eyes to make you feel energized and vibrant throughout the day.
Unlike many lamps that require up to 60 minutes of exposure, you only need to sit close to the goLite BLU lamp for 15 minutes to experience elevated mood and high energy levels. It’s best to use it regularly especially in the less sunny months starting from autumn all through to the end of winter to eliminate SAD symptoms.
This unit comes with a rechargeable battery and versatile adapters, making it easy to carry the lamp as you travel. The hi-tech touch button allows you to easily set the timer and to adjust the brightness level according to your needs.
A remarkable feature of the goLITE BLUE is its LED blubs, which are durable enough to last 50 years when used for 30 minutes each day.
Rechargeable Battery
International Adapter- American and European Plug
Built-in Clock and Treatment Alarm
​Backlit Touch Screen for Convenient Programming
Travel Case
​Blue Light
​Dimmer to Control Light Intensity
On/off Button and Pause Function
Buy on AMAZON
Alleviate Acne And Wipe Out the Scars With Light Therapy
Light therapy has become a popular method for treating mild to moderate acne at home. Light therapy devices for treating acne are usually hand held while others are desktop lamps.
The blue or red light emitted by the device helps to alleviate inflamed zits by activating porphyrins, compounds found in acne bacteria and which help to kill the bacteria. Red light may be more effective at eliminating inflammation and deep seated acne and scars.
You only need to a maximum of 15 minutes exposure to the light to experience the healing effects of desktop lamps. Hand held devices require up to 1-hour exposure, two times a day to see the benefits of the light therapy.
Below is a review of several light therapy devices that can be used to alleviate symptoms of SAD, help with better sleeping patterns and relieve acne.
Different criteria have been used to rank the product including their brightness, presence of blue, red or white light, effectiveness as well as cost.
Edit
Product
Blue+
Red Light
Portable
Requires Charging
UV Filtered
Rating out of 5
$
BlueMD - Acne Blue Light Therapy Treatment
No No No Yes 4.0 $$$
Caribbean Sun Light Therapy Acne Treatment Pro NEW
​
Yes No No Yes 4.4 $$$$
Tanda Clear Acne Light Therapy Starter Kit
​
No Yes Yes Yes 3.1 $$
Sirius SS-77 Aurora
Light Therapy System Yes Yes No No 4.0 $$
Recommended Products in Detail
BlueMD - Acne Blue Light Therapy Treatment Lamp
The Blue MD- Acne Blue Light Therapy lamp is effective at improving teen acne, oily skin, enlarged pores and acne scars. The device utilizes a high intensity blue light to eliminate acne causing bacteria. Compared to other laser treatments, the Blue MD device uses a very particular wavelength that directly combats the p.acnes bacterium.
The blue light is effective when used regularly every week. For best results, it’s best to compliment the light therapy sessions with proper cleansing habits such as washing your face or affected body parts to eliminate dirt. Cleansing your pores helps the light to penetrate deeper into your skin to combat the acne bacteria much faster.
Manufactured by the Trophy Skin brand, the Blue MD- Acne Blue Light device uses a patented bulb that radiate a specific light spectrum suitable for eliminating acne bacteria. In particular, this unit uses 405nm - 420nm light wavelength as recommended by the American Academy of Dermatology to kill the acne causing bacteria. When the bacteria are killed, pimples on your skin shrivel and fade away. Consistent use also lowers the amount of sebum production and minimizes the size of your pores.
Patented blue and red bulb
Dermatologist approved acne light therapy device
FDA approved blue light technology
Treatment lamp comes with 1 pair of goggles
Use 3 times a week, for 20 minutes
Buy on AMAZON
Caribbean Sun Light Therapy Acne Treatment Pro
The Caribbean Sunlight Therapy Acne Treatment Pro utilizes LED lights to effectively treat mild to moderate acne. The lamp uses a combination of red and blue light for optimal treatment. In particular, blue light is effective at destroying acne bacteria while the red light soothes the inflammations that accompany a bout of acne.
This light therapy unit is approved by the FDA and has been proven to effectively reduce acne by 75%. The device is compact and lightweight, measuring just 5 ½ x 9 x 1 ¼ inches so you can use it on the countertop, bedside desk or kitchen at your own convenience. The Caribbean Sun Pro also comes with a foldable stand, double on/off switches, a UV shielding screen and a sufficiently long 6ft. cord so you can plug on nearby switches.
Blue and red LED lamps for acne treatment and soothing inflammation
FDA approved for safety
Hi-tech LED bulb technology
Minimal power consumption
​Goggles for protection against UV rays
10-year warranty
90-day money back guarantee
Buy on AMAZON
Tanda Clear Acne Light Therapy Starter Kit
Tanda is a well-known brand in the light therapy industry. The Tanda Clear Acne Light Therapy kit is an easy to use, hand- held unit with two detachable treatment heads used to clear out acne and blemishes.
This treatment kit is approved and recommended by dermatologists for its effectiveness at combating acne-causing bacteria.
The unit features a blue light LED that emits a 414nm light, which is strong enough to kill bacteria that that causes acne. The deep penetrating beam of light not only helps to fight off acne; but it also help to eliminate breakouts and improve the skin’s tone, color and texture.
The 414nm beam of blue light works by emitting oxygen drops that cling onto the acne-causing bacteria. The oxygen drops create a phototoxic effect that causes the acne bacteria to destroy itself. At the same time, the blue light boosts microcirculation to soothe inflammation and causes the skin to open up to more light, thereby killing more bacteria.
Modular design with large treatment area
FDA approved and recommended by dermatologists
Treatment time: Use for just 3 minutes, 3 times daily
​Rechargeable and cordless making it easy to move around with
Set comes with charger and charging stand
Interchangeable treatment heads for multiple ace and anti-aging uses
Buy on AMAZON
Sirius SS-77 Aurora Light Therapy System
Sirius Aurora utilizes LED light therapy to alleviate acne. The treatment system comes with three interchangeable lamps that can be used to minimize aging, hyperpigmentation and acne. The modular lamps are easy to use, portable, long-lasting and designed or home use.
LED light penetrates deep into the skin to combat the proprioni bacterium acne, which is the primary cause of blackheads and zits. In particular, the blue light emitted by the Sirius Aurora lamp has antibacterial properties that prevent future occurrence of zits and blackheads. The light also soothes inflammation, allowing the skin to heal and rejuvenate. The lamp is free of UV radiation, making it safe to use for mild to moderate acne treatment.
Compared to chemicals and cream that are typically used to treat acne, Sirius Aurora combats the source of the acne rather than treating the surface skin condition, to eliminate the acne. You will start to notice the results in 8 to 12 weeks when you use the treatment for just 15 minutes each day.
Blue LED light to eliminate acne-causing bacteria
​3 interchangeable lamps for alleviating acne, hyperpigmentation and aging
Modular shape for ease of use
​LED bulbs are bright and last up to 10,000 hours
UV-rays free
Buy on AMAZON
Using Light Therapy to Deal With Sleeplessness
Irregular sleeping patterns, work shifts, a demanding work schedule and regular travel can wreak havoc on your sleeping pattern, as well as your ability to wake up and go on with your day feeling energized.
The body’s 24-hour clock controls the circadian rhythms that drive physiological functions in the body such as sleep and mood.
Ideally, the body clock is aligned with local time and any change in time zones could result to a misalignment. Jet lag is a good example of this misalignment.
Other than travel, extreme sleeping patterns such as waking up too early and sleeping too late or vice-versa could also disrupt the normal body clock functions.
Light therapy can be used to backtrack or fast-forward the body clock. To align your body clock to the 24-hour day, it is important to use light therapy at the right time.
Late sleepers who want to adjust to earlier sleeping hours can use the therapy lamp in the morning. While those who wake up and sleep too early can push back their sleeping and waking hours by using the light in the evenings.
Having a bright light lamp at your desk can be especially helpful if you are having a hard time staying awake during the day because you couldn’t sleep at night.
Edit
Product
5,000 lux
or more
Portable
Programm-
able
UV Filtered
Rating out of 5
$
Day-Light Sky 10,000 LUX Bright Light Therapy Lamp
Yes No No Yes 4.0 $$
Philips Hf3470 Wake-up Light, White
​
No Yes No Yes 4.3 $$
Verilux TwiLight Mini Ultra Blue Light Therapy Sleep System
​
Yes Yes Yes Yes 2.9 $
BioBrite Sunrise Clock Advanced Model Charcoal No Yes Yes Yes 3.8 $$
Recommended Products in Detail
Day-Light Sky 10,000 LUX Bright Light Therapy Lamp (DL2000)
The Day-Light Sky comes with a host of impressive features to offer optimal light therapy treatment. The lamp is designed with two-light settings to provide 10,000-LUX illumination. The one-light setting option emits a softer light for ambient or task lighting.
Designed using the BrightZone Technology, the Day Light Sky is recommended for home or office use without harming the eye. Compared to other lamps under the Day Light brand, the Day-Light Sky is up to 33% smaller; its compact size makes it convenient to use while still emitting optimal elimination for the user.
This unit comes with a white lens that effectively diffuses light, prevents glare and evenly emits light for ease and comfort. Its two 55-watt bulbs radiate a warm glow and alleviate blue rays that are potentially harmful. Meanwhile, the polycarbonate lens blocks out 99% of harmful UV rays.
With a height adjustable arm, you can easily position the lamp at a convenient angle. The Day Light Sky is designed with electronic ballasts to keep the fluorescent light from flickering.
BrightZoneTM patent technology
10,000-LUX illumination for optimal therapy
Small footprint, compact and lightweight design
Stylish desk-lamp design for home or office
Recommended by Center for Environmental Therapeutic
Buy on AMAZON
Philips Hf3470 Wake-up Light
The Philips Wake-Up Light HF3470 makes waking up a delight. The light therapy lamp emits a natural light that simulates the sunrise, allowing you to wake up gradually and feeling energized for the day.
In place of a loud jarring alarm, the lamp features two pleasant alarm clock sounds—FM radio or a nature sound that is enjoyable to the ear. The volume of the alarm clocks is adjustable and will increase to your preferred volume within 90 seconds. The delightful nature sounds include wind chimes, a beep and morning birds.
The Philips Wake-Up Light HF3470 features different light intensity levels, allowing you to choose a lux that is comfortable for you. The lamp provides a default lux of 250 but you can adjust it to your preferences. This wake-up lamp is conveniently designed as a bedside lamp with a choice of 20 brightness levels.
Recommended by National Sleep Foundation, the Philips Wake-Up Light HF3470 is safe to use and has been proven to be effective at regulating sleep patterns.
Portable, easy to use light therapy lamp
Choice of two pleasant alarm sounds
Recommended by the National Sleep Foundation
Free of UV rays
​Use for just 15 to 45 minutes daily
Buy on AMAZON
Verilux TwiLight Mini Ultra Blue Light Therapy Sleep System
The Verilux TwiLight Mini Ultra Blue Light Therapy Sleep System features a sleek and minimalist design, making it both stylish and effective at regulating your circadian rhythms. The lamp works by exposing you to blue light wavelength and in turn brings balance to your sleep pattern.
A disrupted sleep pattern could be as a result of jetlag from travelling, working night shifts, age, waking up too early and sleeping too late and vice-versa. The Verilux TwiLight Mini Ultra Blue Light Therapy Sleep System can regulate and balance your sleep patterns just by getting exposure to short blue light for 30-60 minutes before going to sleep. This exposure not only lets you fall asleep faster; it also allows you to stay asleep and to wake up feeling rejuvenated.
The lamp features a translucent lens to produce the ultimate amount of blue light for optimal therapy. The Verilux TwiLight is also built to stay cool even when in use, so you can use it safe
High/low light brightness control
Flicker elimination feature and electronic ballast
36-watt bulb delivers 5,000 LUX of 460 nm blue light
​Stylish and portable device
3 year warranty (limited)
Buy on AMAZON
BioBrite Sunrise Clock Advanced Model Charcoal
BioBrite SunRise Clock has a compact, contemporary design that makes it portable and easy to use at your own convenience. The light therapy offered by the lamp is based on scientific research that has taken consideration of human behavior in response to light.
Research has found that in the early hours of the morning, the body’s biological clock is sensitive to light of low intensity. As such, you are bound to wake up feeling energized when you are exposed to light that increases in small amounts. As opposed to jumping out of sleep, light therapy allows you to naturally wake up to rays of refreshing light.
The SunRise Clock allows you to program your simulated sunrise and sunset in increments of 15, 30, 45 or 60 minutes. It also comes with a backup alarm and an intelligent display that automatically dims out at night to allow you to fall asleep naturally. The handmade opal glass adds a touch of classiness to the lamp.
Flexible sunrise and sunset hours
​Backup alarm system
Brightness controls
​Intelligent LCD display
Optional snoozer
Power failure backup
Dimm-able lights for bedside reading
Buy on AMAZON
Related Articles
How to Get Rid of Keloid
How to Get Rid of Fever Blisters
How to Get Gum out of Your Hair
Natural Remedies for Skin Fungus
What Is the Best Waterproof Makeup to Cover up Tattoos?
The Best Hair Removal Cream for Sensitive Skin
The Best Night Cream for Acne Prone Skin
© 2018 brightenyourmood.com All rights reserved.
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();