How to Lighten Up Scars | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Scars
How to Lighten Up Scars
Tammy Dray
About the Author:
Tammy Dray
Tammy Dray has been writing since 1996. She specializes in health, wellness and travel topics and has credits in various publications including Woman's Day, Marie Claire, Adirondack Life and Self. She is also a seasoned independent traveler and a certified personal trainer and nutrition consultant. Dray is pursuing a criminal justice degree at Penn Foster College.
View Full Profile
If you are worried about the appearance of dark scars on your body, you can treat them at home. However, while natural remedies may work for smaller scars, for more serious scars you might need a prescription. A dermatologist can help you decide which treatment option is best based on the type and location of the scar. If you're using natural products, keep in mind that it can take months before you see any difference in the coloring of the scar.
Lemons (Image: tanjichica7/iStock/Getty Images)
Step 1
Apply fresh lemon juice directly to the scar, using your fingers or a cotton ball. Repeat several times a day for at least a few weeks. Lemon juice is acidic and may help bleach the skin.
Step 2
Rub vitamin E oil directly onto the scars and the surrounding skin. Vitamin E can help soften the scar, making it less prominent. Because vitamin E is an antioxidant, it can also help halt the formation of free radicals, which age the skin and prevent healing. Olive oil and coconut oil can also help, although these are less effective than vitamin E.
Step 3
Apply an over-the-counter scar-lightening cream that contains allium cepa bulb extract to the area. Allium is a type of onion used in the making of creams such as Mederma, which doctors often recommend for stretch marks and acne scars. Follow the directions on the packaging. You might need to apply the cream several times a day for up to six months to see a difference.
Things You'll Need
Fresh lemon juice
Cotton balls
Vitamin E oil
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
“Recipes for Natural Beauty”; Neals Yard; 2002
“Jude's Herbal Home Remedies: Natural Health, Beauty &amp; Home-Care Secrets (Living with Nature Series)”; Jude Todd; 2002
Drugs.com: Mederma
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Inexpensive Way to Get Rid of Frown Lines Between the Eyes
2
Mederma Vs. Vitamin E Oil
3
Foods Rich in Vitamins B & C
4
Lemon Juice Concentrate Nutritional Facts
5
How to Treat Scars After Surgery
6
Can B-12 Make You Feel Jittery?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.