New research shows that 50% of all Migraine sufferers are deficient in Magnesium …. so why doesn’t Magnesium supplementation work for my migraine ?
Australian Press Release Distribution & PR Wire Service
Login or Sign Up
Login
Lost Password
Sign Up
New Press Release
For Journalists
News Categories
New research shows that 50% of all Migraine sufferers are deficient in Magnesium …. so why doesn’t Magnesium supplementation work for my migraine ?
Saturday, July 22nd, 2017 - Regenex Laboratories
In the last 3 years new research conducted at the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil and the New England Centre for Headache at Stamford University in the USA has uncovered a link between Migraine sufferers and magnesium serum levels, with the conclusion Magnesium can effectively be used for the treatment of ongoing Migraine headache.
Further research shows that 40-50% of all migraine sufferers are deficient in magnesium showing a link between magnesium deficiency and migraine, so why is supplementation with standard Magnesium usually ineffective?
This vital mineral is critical in more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body and Dr. Marc Sircus, Director of the International Medical Veritas Association once said “there is a power and a force in magnesium that cannot be equaled anywhere else in the world of medicine”
In 2012, the American Headache Society and the American Academy of Neurology reviewed the studies on medications used for migraine prevention and rated magnesium as being “more probably effective and should be considered for patients requiring migraine preventive therapy”.
So is avoiding migraines as simple as taking a magnesium supplement? No it is not and here is the reason why supplementation with standard magnesium usually doesn’t work.
While magnesium given by IV does seem to work miracles, it’s pretty hard to give yourself an IV drip at home, and in supplement form plain magnesium (on it’s own) doesn’t cross the blood brain barrier or enter soft muscle tissue. It needs to be combined with other selected B group vitamins and minerals, known as co-factors, for it to enter the blood stream.
So if you take a regular magnesium supplement, like one you might find in your local pharmacy or supermarket, it will have little or no effect on your migraine frequency or severity, as most of it will just pass through your body and flush out in your urine. Maybe you’ve been there before and already know the outcome.
But more recently, in a product developed with the help of leading doctors, professors and clinical researchers from Australia, New Zealand and the USA, the magnesium is activated by bonding it with other co-factors (Vitamins B3, B6 & Zinc), so it has the best chance of crossing the blood brain barrier and relieving your pain and helping prevent future migraines.
This new supplement has been launched under the Tradename of Migraine Stop and it contains all 3 of the best forms of magnesium into one capsule, with B group vitamins and zinc added to allow the magnesium to cross the blood brain barrier. The manufacturer claims that this activated magnesium alone is incredibly powerful but in order to add weight to the formulation they also need a natural solution to the anxiety and stress that often accompanies migraine pain, so to assist with anxiety and further enhance muscle relaxation they added Cramp Bark and Passionflower.
So will this new Migraine Stop work for everyone?
Apparently not everyone, but at least 50% of people. Migraines are triggered by a huge range of factors, but this research has definitively shown that around 40-50% of migrainers exhibit a magnesium deficiency, so if you fall into that category then the activated magnesium will definitely help.
This new migraine prevention supplement is the product of Regenex Laboratories, a New Zealand based company with distribution in Australia and USA and as of writing the company launched globally, offering clients a chance to try the product at a $30 discount by way of a promotional code. It’s an innovative launch and so far more than 1,000,000 consumers worldwide are using Migraine. Check the link here to get one of the discounted bottles before they run out – http://www.migrainestop.co.nz/get-coupon-code
File Library
Contact Profile
Regenex Laboratories
Regenex Laboratories is a New Zealand based company, marketing natural supplements in Australia, the USA, the UK and Asia. Regenex Labs marqee product is Migraine Stop, a magnesium based product for migraine, tension headaches, leg cramps, PMS and improved sleep
Mark Linford
M: +61413386308
W: www.migrainestop.com
Keywords
migraine, magnesium, migraine headache, magnesium deficiency, natural migraine prevention
Categories
Medicine & Health
Newsrooms
Regenex Laboratories
Sharing
More Formats
View QR Code
Quick Links
New Press Release
For Journalists
News Categories
Company
Contact
About
Terms
Pricing
Privacy
We're Social
Blog
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Google+
Subscribe
Subscribe to receive NewsMaker E-News updates with the latest PR tips and trends
Subscribe
Copyright© 2005-2019 Newsgallery Pty Ltd. NewsMaker® is a trademark of NewsGallery Pty Ltd.
2019-04-19 10:13:05 GMT +9.5
Back to Top