6 Best Athlete's Foot Treatment Creams (2019) | Faveable
About
Signup
Health
Men
Women
Credit Cards
Style
Home & Office
Baby
Health
Bedding
Outdoors
6 Best Athlete's Foot Treatment Creams
11
Hours
Researched
45
Products
Evaluated
After 11 hours of research evaluating 45 products, we picked Family Care Clotrimazole Anti Fungal Cream as our top choice.
The average person spends anywhere from 6-12 hours per day wearing shoes and socks. Not just comfortable shoes for use at the office, but running shoes, gym shoes, and shoes to work around the house. All that time with your feet trapped can drastically increase your risk of tinea pedis.
More commonly known as "athlete's foot".
Athlete's foot is a fungal infection on your feet, usually beginning between your toes and spreading to your toenails and hands. Thankfully, it's not too difficult to figure out how to get rid of athlete's foot. Most topical athlete's foot treatment creams have a 70% success rate and will work within a couple of weeks.
But which is the best?
With so many creams and unguents available in supermarkets, grocery stores, and over the counter at pharmacies, you're likely overwhelmed by the large variety of options to choose from.
But don't worry, we've done the work for you! We have researched just about every athlete's foot cream available to find the most effective products on the market.
Below are our top six recommendations to cure your athlete's foot. Now, happy reading!
Show more
Why you should trust us: Faveable has been providing some of the best product recommendations on the web since 2013. Spending thousands of hours researching, interviewing experts, and testing products to come up with carefully selected lists that are trusted by millions of consumers.
6 PICKS
Expert Author Andrew Peloquin
Faveable supports you with thousands of hours of research to find the best products. Our independently chosen links earn us a commission. Learn more »
Read Time
8 min
Views
2.2K
S M T W T F S
20 million Readers
Have trusted our product reviews
Last updated: March 1, 2019
6 Best Athlete's Foot Treatment Creams
6. Derman Antifungal Cream 6-Pack
5. Purely Northwest Antifungal Soap with Tea Tree Oil
4. Puriya WonderBalm
3. The Yellow Bird All Natural Antifungal Foot Cream
2. O'Keeffe's for Healthy Feet Foot Cream
1. Family Care Clotrimazole Anti Fungal Cream
Most Easily Available Athlete's Foot Cure
#6
Derman Antifungal Cream 6-Pack
Get from Amazon
76 % Editor Score
80 % User Score
195 Bought
Why People Love it
•	Cheap and available in every pharmacy and supermarket
•	Effective; undecylenic acid stops the fungal growth in its tracks
•	Strong formula, useful for many infections, efficient penetration
Show more
Pros Cons
Inexpensive, available everywhere, effective, reliable, softens callouses, absorbed into the skin quickly, gets rid of infections on the microbial level, combats serious infections efficiently, and prevents the spread of infection.
Leaves a greasy film on your skin, and regular application is required.
Details
Details: This cream is one you'll find in EVERY supermarket, grocery store, pharmacy, and even in many convenience stores. It's one of the most widely available brands—for good reason, thanks to its efficiency. It's designed to completely clear up your athlete's foot over the course of four weeks.
The cream contains undecylenic acid, a fatty acid that counteracts the fungal infection on a microbial level. The fatty acid disrupts the fungal cells, killing them off and preventing their spread. It also hinders the production of the enzyme that allows the fungi to reproduce and worsen the infection.
The product is medicated with a glycerin base (which can interact negatively with some users' skin), and it's highly effective when applied at least twice a day. It can be used while wearing shoes and socks, though some people find the greasy texture a bit annoying. However, there's no strong smell, so it won't bother you as you apply it. The cream will protect your hands and prevent the fungal infection from spreading to your toes and fingernails.
Price: At $18 for a 6-pack, this is one of the most cost-effective options on the list. It's pricier than our top-rated pick and not quite as effective, but it's a medicated cream that gets the job done every time.
Learn more:Derman Antifungal Cream 6-Pack »
Show More
Most Versatile Athlete's Foot Treatment
#5
Purely Northwest Antifungal Soap with Tea Tree Oil
Get from Amazon
80 % Editor Score
82 % User Score
122 Bought
Why People Love it
•	Tea tree oil makes short work of bacterial and fungal infections
•	Can be used to treat jock itch, body odor, acne, nail fungus, athlete's foot, and more
•	Natural ingredients protect and nourish your skin
Show more
Pros Cons
Antifungal and antibacterial soap that's useful for treating ALL fungal infections. Additionally, it's easily applied, leaves no greasy residue, absorbs quickly into your skin, effective, amazing range of natural ingredients, reduced risk of skin irritation, and features a cooling and soothing formula.
You have to use a lot per application.
Details
Details: This is a totally new approach to treating your athlete's foot. Instead of using a greasy ointment or thick cream, this antibacterial and antifungal soap is light and airy. It absorbs quickly into your skin, killing off the fungi causing your athlete's foot. It also contains natural ingredients like Vitamin E to protect your skin and lock the moisture in place.
The Vitamins A and C in the cream are amazing for your skin, and the essential oils (eucalyptus, peppermint, and tea tree) will help to kill off the fungi causing the infection. It's great for those who are incessantly scratching their feet! The formula is also cooling and soothing, helping to deal with the itchiness and heat common with athlete's foot.
The soap is designed to be used for more than just athlete's foot—it can treat jock itch, toenail fungus, dry and chapped skin, ringworm, bad armpit odor, bacterial skin infections, and acne infections. It's made without parabens, petroleum products, silicone, and any artificial dyes or chemicals. It not be as fast-acting as a medicated cream, but it gets the job done naturally.
Be warned: it's thinner than your average cream, so you will end up applying more every time. This means you'll go through the bottle of antibacterial soap quicker than other products.
Price: At $15, this is a very well-priced product. You get 9 fluid ounces per bottle, and it should last you for weeks of daily use. It can be used as an antibacterial soap/hand sanitizer or to treat your athlete's foot infection. So overall, this is an effective, versatile product.
Learn more:Purely Northwest Antifungal Soap with Tea Tree Oil »
Show More
Best Natural Athlete's Foot Cream
#4
Puriya WonderBalm
Get from Amazon
84 % Editor Score
86 % User Score
91 Bought
Why People Love it
•	An all-natural approach to treating athlete's foot
•	Antiseptic, antifungal, and antimicrobial properties
•	Soft, soothing, and highly effective
Show more
Pros Cons
Homeopathic, contains essential oils, no artificial or chemical ingredients, great for your skin health, soothes infected and cracked skin, no greasy residue left behind, and suitable for use anywhere.
Some risk of allergic reactions, and it's a bit pricey.
Details
Details: Worried about the athlete's foot infection spreading to your toenails or hands? Use this lotion to help you treat and combat the infection! The essential oils (tea tree, eucalyptus, and lavender) will fight the fungi causing the infection, preventing them from spreading and speeding up healing. Thanks to its all-natural ingredients, you have a homeopathic approach to treating your athlete's foot.
The formula is designed to soothe inflamed skin, preventing itching and pain. The essential oils also kill off the odors and leave your feet smelling beautiful. Application is easy and won't leave behind a greasy residue, so it's great for use just before wearing shoes. The beeswax and olive oil will infuse your skin with a protective layer that will reduce dryness and further infection.
There are no artificial or chemical ingredients to irritate your skin. However, this has two drawbacks: the natural ingredients may cause allergic reactions, and it's not as quick-acting as medicated/OTC athlete's foot creams.
Price: At $35, this is the priciest of the athlete's foot creams on our list. It's worth it if you want a homeopathic remedy for your infection, but prepare to pay high prices. (Note: the manufacturer offers a 180-day Money Back Guarantee, so you can get a full refund if the cream doesn't work to your satisfaction.)
Learn more:Puriya WonderBalm »
Show More
Best Organic Athlete's Foot Cream
#3
The Yellow Bird All Natural Antifungal Foot Cream
Get from Amazon
89 % Editor Score
89 % User Score
93 Bought
Why People Love it
•	Combat bad smells and athlete's foot the natural way
•	All organic and natural ingredients; GMO, soy, paraben, and phthalate-free
•	Everything you need to care for your feet
Show more
Pros Cons
Organic ingredients, highly effective, smells beautiful, moisturizing, odor-killing, GMO-free, no phthalates or parabens, soothing, great for dry skin, and protect your feet from bacteria.
Not suitable for SERIOUS infections.
Details
Details: If you've got a serious case of athlete's foot, you may be better off with medicated cream. However, for a minor fungal infection, this cream does an amazing job of curbing fungal growth. Thanks to its coconut oil and tea tree oil content, you can kill off bacteria and fungus, preventing bad smells as well as reducing the risk of infections.
The cream contains 10 organic and natural ingredients, including lavender, eucalyptus, peppermint, and tea tree oil. It's fully non-GMO, soy-free, and contains no phthalates or parabens. The essential oils give it a beautifully fresh smell, and it's highly effective as a moisturizer to prevent skin dryness and cracked skin.
The cream is absorbed into your skin effectively, providing long-lasting coverage. It's amazing to use as a foot massage cream, and the nutrients in the cream will improve your skin health. If you have thick calluses, it can be used to soften them.
Price: The price tag on this organic cream is a bit high: a little over $16 for a 4-ounce jar. However, given its effectiveness against fungal infections and bacterial odors, you'll find it's a useful cream to have handy!
Learn more:The Yellow Bird All Natural Antifungal Foot Cream »
Show More
Best Antifungal Cream for Moisturizing
#2
O'Keeffe's for Healthy Feet Foot Cream
Get from Amazon
93 % Editor Score
93 % User Score
256 Bought
Why People Love it
•	A great product for dry and cracked feet; hydrating and anti-fungal
•	Protect your feet from infection and dry skin
•	Soothing, unscented, and hypoallergenic
Show more
Pros Cons
Ideal for athletes, fast-acting, moisturizing, concentrated dose, great for sensitive skin, protects the skin, locks in moisture, heals dry/cracked skin, and works great as an overnight cream.
Not as effective as medicated creams.
Learn more:O'Keeffe's for Healthy Feet Foot Cream »
Show More
Best Athletes Foot Cream Overall
#1
Family Care Clotrimazole Anti Fungal Cream
Get from Amazon
98 % Editor Score
96 % User Score
898 Bought
Why People Love it
•	Highly effective cream for most fungal infections
•	One of the best-priced options for treating athlete's foot
•	Easy to apply, doesn't leave greasy film on your fingers
Show more
Pros Cons
Great value, excellent effectiveness, versatile, medicated, comes in a pack of five, fragrance-free, no greasy texture, and it's great for toenails and skin between the toes.
Generic brand, and it takes a bit longer to treat than some products.
Details
Details: This product is made with Clotrimazole, a fungistatic agent that disrupts the membrane development of fungal cells rather than killing off the fungi (fungicide). This means it has a slower treatment time than other medications (Terbinafine, for example). However, it's faster-acting than Tolnaftate, and has a higher success rate. It's effective not just for athlete's foot, but can be used for jock itch, ringworm, and most other fungal infections.
The 1% concentration of Clotrimazole is the same as you get from brand name creams like Lotrimin, but this 5-pack of generic (store brand) anti-fungal cream is far cheaper.
Applying the cream is easy: simply squeeze the tube and apply the cream to your toenails and the skin between your toes. It doesn't leave a greasy film on your hands or feet, and there's no nasty fragrance. The risk of skin irritation is low, so it's good for those with sensitivity to medicated creams. All in all, the best choice for dealing with your athlete's foot!
Price: At just over $8 for a 5-pack of cream, this is one of the best-priced products on our list. Add in its high effectiveness, and you've got an awesome option for treating your fungal infection.
Learn more:Family Care Clotrimazole Anti Fungal Cream »
Show More
Faveable Giveaway: $100 Amazon Gift Card
Enter Giveaway
Thanks for entering
Share and get FIVE (5) additional entries
Article Staff
By Andrew Peloquin
Fitness has come hard for Andy; he's had to work for it. But, his trials have led him to becoming a martial artist, a NFPT-certified fitness trainer, and a man passionate about exercise and healthy living. That’s why he’s our resident fitness expert.
His favorite food is lettuce-leaf steak tacos – though he’ll admit to a love of hot wings if you leverage the right pressure.
We know him as the guy who understands British humor and wishes everyone was as passionate about life as he is. His previous forays into the worlds of international business and education have left him wildly optimistic. And, if that wasn’t enough, he's also a best-selling, award-winning author of fantasy novels! Can you say renaissance?
Editor Jenna Holtz
Researcher Ronnie Langston
Art Director Cherry Barbacena
Join the conversation
6 Best Athlete's Foot Treatment Creams
Thanks for reading my article. I value your feedback and invite you to join the conversation:
Share your opinion on the list
Suggest an item for consideration
Review items you've tried
— Andrew
Post your comment
You May Also Like
10 Best Compression Shorts for Men
Andrew Peloquin
13 min
4.3K
5 Best Neck Massagers
Andrew Peloquin
7 min
356
6 Best Gym Bags for Men
Erika Wester
8 min
513
3 Best Inversion Tables
Katie Schenk
5 min
603
9 Best Water Bottles
Marina Wiersma
11 min
2.7K
8 Best Night Creams
Suzanne Scacca
10 min
1.2K
See more in Health
It's what you didn't know you were missing
We spend thousands of hours researching and testing products to create the most authoritative product ranking on the web. Over 20 million users and counting have trusted our rankings and product reviews.
9,106 Reviews … and counting
Make your account
Category
Men
Women
Credit Cards
Style
Home & Office
Baby
Health
Bedding
Eat
Dating & Sex
Outdoors
Tech
Pets
Special Occasions
Motivation
Entertainment
More...
About
Join
Login
About
Press
Contact
Social
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Subscribe
You've subscribed to the Faveable newsletter. Thank you.
Become a Member
About Faveable
Advertising Disclosure
Copyrights
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact
© 2019 Faveable Inc.
Never make a dumb purchase again
Our tips in your mailbox:
You've subscribed to the Faveable newsletter. Thank you.
for access to exclusive free content -- it's easy!