Croup | Raceland, LA | Children's Clinic of Raceland
Navigation
Home
About Us
Our Location
Our Services
Providers
Hospital List
Insurance List
Get Our Mobile App
Forms & Policies
New Patients
Patient Portal
Is Your Child Sick? TM
Illnesses and Symptoms...... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Croup
Is this your child's symptom?
Barky cough and hoarse voice caused by a virus
Croup is a viral infection of the voicebox (larynx)
The croupy cough is tight, low-pitched, and barky (like a barking seal)
The voice or cry is hoarse (called laryngitis)
Some children with severe croup get a harsh, tight sound while breathing in. This is called stridor.
If NOT, try one of these:
Cough
Stridor: A nother Health Problem of Croup
Stridor is a harsh, raspy tight sound best heard with breathing in
Loud or constant stridor means severe croup. So does stridor at rest (when not crying or coughing).
All stridor needs to be treated with warm mist
Most children with stridor need treatment with a steroid (such as Decadron)
For any stridor, see First Aid for treatment
Causes of a Croupy Cough
Viral Croup. Viruses are the most common cause of croup symptoms. Many respiratory viruses can infect the vocal cord area and cause narrowing. Even influenza (the flu) can do this. A fever is often present with the barky cough.
Allergic Croup. A croupy cough can occur with exposure to pollens or allergens in a barn. A runny nose, itchy eyes and sneezing are also often present.
Inhaled Powder. Breathing in any fine substance can trigger 10 minutes of severe coughing. Examples are powdered sugar, flour dust or peanut dust. They can float into the lungs. This is not an allergic reaction.
Airway Foreign Object (Serious). Suspect when there is a sudden onset of coughing and choking. Common examples are peanut and seeds. Peak age is 1 to 4 years.
Food Allergy (Serious). Croup symptoms can also be caused by a food allergy. This can be life-threatening (anaphylaxis). Examples are nuts or fish.
When to Call for Croup
When to Call for Croup
Call 911 Now
Severe trouble breathing (struggling for each breath, constant severe stridor)
Passed out or stopped breathing
Lips or face are bluish when not coughing
Croup started suddenly after bee sting, taking a new medicine or allergic food
Drooling, spitting or having great trouble swallowing. Exception: drooling due to teething.
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) is heard now
Trouble breathing. Exception: present only when coughing.
Lips or face have turned bluish during coughing
Ribs are pulling in with each breath (retractions)
Breathing is much faster than normal
Can't bend the neck forward
Severe chest pain
Age less than 1 year old with stridor
Had croup before that needed Decadron
Weak immune system. Examples are: sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids.
High-risk child (such as cystic fibrosis or other chronic lung disease)
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Age less than 12 weeks old with fever. Caution: do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) occurred but not present now
Nonstop coughing
Age less than 1 year old with a croupy cough
Earache or ear drainage
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after being gone more than 24 hours
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Coughing causes vomiting 3 or more times
Croup is a frequent problem (3 or more times)
Barky cough lasts more than 14 days
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Mild croup (barky cough) with no stridor
Call 911 Now
Severe trouble breathing (struggling for each breath, constant severe stridor)
Passed out or stopped breathing
Lips or face are bluish when not coughing
Croup started suddenly after bee sting, taking a new medicine or allergic food
Drooling, spitting or having great trouble swallowing. Exception: drooling due to teething.
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) is heard now
Trouble breathing. Exception: present only when coughing.
Lips or face have turned bluish during coughing
Ribs are pulling in with each breath (retractions)
Breathing is much faster than normal
Can't bend the neck forward
Severe chest pain
Age less than 1 year old with stridor
Had croup before that needed Decadron
Weak immune system. Examples are: sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids.
High-risk child (such as cystic fibrosis or other chronic lung disease)
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Age less than 12 weeks old with fever. Caution: do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) occurred but not present now
Nonstop coughing
Age less than 1 year old with a croupy cough
Earache or ear drainage
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after being gone more than 24 hours
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Coughing causes vomiting 3 or more times
Croup is a frequent problem (3 or more times)
Barky cough lasts more than 14 days
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Mild croup (barky cough) with no stridor
Care Advice for Croup
What You Should Know About Croup:
Most children with croup just have a barky cough.
Some have tight breathing (called stridor). Stridor is a loud, harsh sound when breathing in. It comes from the area of the voicebox.
Coughing up mucus is very important. It helps protect the lungs from pneumonia.
We want to help a productive cough, not turn it off.
Here is some care advice that should help.
First Aid For Stridor (Harsh sound with breathing in):
Breathe warm mist in a closed bathroom with the hot shower running. Do this for 20 minutes.
You could also use a wet washcloth held near the face.
Caution: Do not use very hot water or steam which could cause burns.
If warm mist fails, breathe cool air by standing near an open refrigerator. You can also go outside with your child if the weather is cold. Do this for a few minutes.
Calm Your Child if He or She has Stridor:
Crying or fear can make stridor worse.
Try to keep your child calm and happy.
Hold and comfort your child.
Use a soothing, soft voice.
Humidifier:
If the air in your home is dry, use a humidifier.
Reason: Dry air makes croup worse.
Homemade Cough Medicine:
Goal: Decrease the irritation or tickle in the throat that causes a dry cough.
Age 3 months to 1 year: Give warm clear fluids to treat the cough. Examples are apple juice and lemonade. Amount: Use a dose of 1-3 teaspoons (5-15 mL). Give 4 times per day when coughing. Caution: Do not use honey until 1 year old.
Age 1 year and older: Use Honey ½ to 1 teaspoon (2-5 mL) as needed. It works as a homemade cough medicine. It can thin the secretions and loosen the cough. If you don't have any honey, you can use corn syrup.
Age 6 years and older: Use Cough Drops to decrease the tickle in the throat. If you don't have any, you can use hard candy. Avoid cough drops before 6 years. Reason: risk of choking.
Non-Prescription Cough Medicine (DM):
Non-prescription cough medicines are not advised. Reason: No proven benefit for children and not approved under 6 years old. (FDA)
Honey has been shown to work better for coughs. Caution: Do not use honey until 1 year old.
If age 6 years or older, you might decide to use a cough medicine. Choose one with dextromethorphan (DM) such as Robitussin Cough syrup. DM is present in most non-prescription cough syrups.
When to Use: Give only for severe coughs that interfere with sleep or school.
DM Dose: Give every 6 to 8 hours as needed.
Coughing Fits or Spells - Warm Mist and Fluids:
Breathe warm mist, such as with shower running in a closed bathroom.
Give warm clear fluids to drink. Examples are apple juice and lemonade.
Age under 3 months. Don't use warm fluids.
Age 3 - 12 months of age. Give 1 ounce (30 mL) each time. Limit to 4 times per day.
Age over 1 year of age. Give as much warm fluids as needed.
Reason: Both relax the airway and loosen up any phlegm.
Fluids - Offer More:
Try to get your child to drink lots of fluids.
Goal: Keep your child well hydrated.
It also loosens up any phlegm in the lungs. Then it's easier to cough up.
Fever Medicine:
For fevers above 102° F (39° C), give an acetaminophen product (such as Tylenol).
Another choice is an ibuprofen product (such as Advil).
Note: Fevers less than 102° F (39° C) are important for fighting infections.
For all fevers: Keep your child well hydrated. Give lots of cold fluids.
Sleep Close By to Your Child:
Sleep in the same room with your child for a few nights.
Reason: Stridor can start all of a sudden at night.
Avoid Tobacco Smoke:
Tobacco smoke makes croup much worse.
Return to School:
Your child can go back to school after the fever is gone.
Your child should also feel well enough to join in normal activities.
For practical purposes, the spread of croup and colds cannot be prevented.
What to Expect:
Most often, croup lasts 5 to 6 days and becomes worse at night.
The croupy cough can last up to 2 weeks.
Call Your Doctor If:
Trouble breathing occurs
Stridor (harsh raspy sound) occurs
Croupy cough lasts more than 14 days
You think your child needs to be seen
Your child becomes worse
And remember, contact your doctor if your child develops any of the 'Call Your Doctor' symptoms.
Disclaimer: this health information is for educational purposes only. You, the reader, assume full responsibility for how you choose to use it.
Copyright 2000-2019 Schmitt Pediatric Guidelines LLC.
First Aid - Croup with Stridor
Stridor is a harsh, tight sound with breathing in. Stridor means the croup is severe.
Breathe warm mist in a closed bathroom with the hot shower running. Do this for 20 minutes.
Other Option: Use a wet washcloth held near the face. Can also use a humidifier containing warm water.
Caution: Do not use very hot water or steam which could cause burns. Hot steam can also cause high body temperatures.
If warm mist fails, breathe cool air by standing near an open refrigerator. You can also go outside with your child if the weather is cold. Do this for a few minutes.
Office Information
Office Hours: Mon-Fri: 8:00 - 4:30
(closed 12:00 - 1:00 for lunch)
Sat & Sun: Closed
Appointments:
After Hours: 985-537-8687
985-537-6841
Emergencies
Is Your Child Sick?TM
Select from over 100 symptoms to learn about managing your child's illness.
Illnesses and Symptoms...... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Medicine Dosage... Acetaminophen Cold Medicines Cough Medicines Ibuprofen Itching/Allergies
Medical Conditions... Abdominal Pain, Recurrent Acne Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Otitis Media Acute Strep Throat Addison AIDS/HIV Anxiety Appendicitis Atopic Dermatitis (Eczema) Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Breast Enlargement, Premature Breath-Holding Spells Bronchiolitis Care of the Premature Infant Celiac Disease Chickenpox Chickenpox Immunization Coarctation of the Aorta Congenital Hip Dysplasia Coxsackie A16 Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome (CVS) Depression Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip Diabetic Mother, Infant of Ear Infection Eating Disorders Eczema Enlarged Lymph Nodes Erythema Multiforme Eye Problems Related to Headache Febrile Seizure Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Fifth Disease (Erythema Infectiosum) Flu Food Borne Illnesses Fragile X Syndrome Gastroenteritis, Viral Gastroesophageal Reflux Hand Foot and Mouth Head Lice Headache Related to Eye Problems Hemangioma Hepatitis A Hepatitis A Immunization Hepatitis B Hepatitis B Immunization Hepatitis C Hib Immunization High Blood Pressure HIV/AIDS Hyperactivity Hypertension Hypothyroidism Immunizations Infant of a Diabetic Mother Infectious Mononucleosis Influenza Immunization Influenza-Seasonal Kawasaki Syndrome Language Development in Young Children Lead Poisoning Leukemia Lung Hypoplasia Lyme Disease Lymphadenopathy Measles Mental Health MMR Immunization Mumps Obesity in Childhood Otitis Media, Acute Parasites - Giardia Pneumococcal Conjugate Immunization Polio Immunization Premature Thelarche Prematurity Prematurity, Retinopathy of Pulmonary Hypertension Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH & SPH) Retinopathy of Prematurity Rheumatic Fever, Acute Ringworm (Tinea) Roseola Rotavirus Rubella (German Measles) Scabies Separation Anxiety Sinusitis Smoking Speech Development in Young Children Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Strep Throat-Acute Strep Throat-Recurrent Stuttering and the Young Child Swine Flu Swine Flu (H1N1) FAQ Swine Flu (H1N1) Vaccine Swollen Glands Tattoos Tear Duct, Blocked Tetralogy of Fallot Thyroid Problems Tinea (ringworm infection) Toxic Shock Syndrome Toxoplasmosis Turner Syndrome Underdeveloped Lungs Urinary Tract Infection Varicella or Chickenpox Varivax Immunization Vesicoureteral Reflux Wheezing-Infant Wilson Disease
Medical Library
Browse our library of information about various medical conditions.
Immunizations
Newborns
Breastfeeding
Behavior
Teens
Special Needs
Parenting Tips
Helpful Links
Emergencies
Visual Symptom Checker
What's Going Around?
Children's Clinic of Raceland | 110 Acadia Drive, Raceland, LA 70394 | Phone: (985) 537-8687
DISCLAIMER:
The information contained in these topics is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, it is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information.
Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified healthcare provider before starting any new treatment or discontinuing an existing treatment. Talk with your healthcare provider about any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Nothing contained in these topics is intended to be used for medical diagnosis or treatment.
Not a Substitute - The information and materials on this website and RemedyConnect's content (Including but not exclusive of: Illness/Symptoms, Is Your Child Sick? Medicine Dosages, Medical Conditions) should not be used as a substitute for the care and knowledge that your physician can provide to you.
Supplement - The information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online are meant to supplement the information that you obtain from your physician. If there is a disagreement between the information presented herein and what your physician has told you -- it is more likely that your physician is correct. He or she has the benefit of knowing your medical problems.
Limitations - You should recognize that the information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online have the following limitations, in comparison to being examined by your own physician:
You can have a conversation with your doctor.
Your doctor can perform a physical examination and any necessary tests.
You could have an underlying medical problem that requires a physician to detect.
If you're taking medications, they could influence how you experience various symptoms.
If you think that you are having a medical emergency,
call 911 or the number for the local emergency ambulance service NOW!
And when in doubt, call your doctor NOW
or go to the closest emergency department.
By using this website, you accept the information provided herein "AS IS." Neither RemedyConnect nor the providers of the information contained herein will have any liability to you arising out of your use of the information contained herein or make any express or implied warranty regarding the accuracy, content, completeness, reliability, or efficacy of the information contained within this website.
X
Privacy Statement
RemedyConnect, Inc. has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to your privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for this website: http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Acquisition of Information through PMD
We do not acquire any more information about website visitors than is required by law or is otherwise necessary to provide a high level of service efficiently and securely. Our site's registration form requires users to give us contact information (e.g., their name and e-mail address) and demographic information (e.g., children's birth months, but not birth dates). We use customer contact information from the registration form to (1) send the user pertinent medical and parenting information and (2) allow your local health provider lists of who is registering on that provider's site as a parent/guardian, staff member, doctor, or visitor. Users may opt-out of receiving future mailings; see the choice/opt-out section below.
We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Website. Your IP address is used to help identify you and to gather broad demographic information.
Demographic and profile data is also collected at our site. We may use this data to tailor the visitor's experience at our site, showing them content that we think they might be interested in, and displaying the content according to their preferences.
Our site may use order forms to allow users to request information, products, and services.
Your Doctor's Right to Privacy
We will respect your doctor's right to privacy. A doctor typically does not give his/her e-mail address to the parents/guardians of patients. We will not provide the e-mail addresses of doctor(s) in the local practice to users of their site without the doctor(s)' permission. Their site is restricted to use by whomever they wish, and they may deny access to their site to one or more prior users. In unusual cases, doctors may change their private site's access code and arrange for us to e-mail the new access code to approved users.
Cookies
We use cookies to deliver content specific to your interests and to save your doctor's access code so you don't have to re-enter it each time you visit your doctor's site on http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Links
This site contains links to other sites. RemedyConnect.com is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Websites. See Disclaimers.
Disclosure to Third Parties
We will provide individually-identifiable information about website users to third parties only if we are compelled to do so by order of a duly-empowered governmental authority, we have the express permission of the visitor, or it is necessary to process transactions and provide you services from our affiliates: Live Agent Answering Service, Digital Answering Service, Medical Answering Service and Pediatric Answering Service.
Privacy and Our Business Partners
When we make our technology or services available to business partners, we will not share with them any more consumer information than is necessary, and we will make every reasonable effort to assure, by contract or otherwise, that they use our technology and services in a manner that is consistent with this Privacy Policy.
Public Forums
This site may make chat rooms, forums, message boards, and/or news groups available to its users. Please remember that any information that is disclosed in these areas becomes public information and you should exercise caution when deciding to disclose your personal information.
Security
This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. For further information regarding our security, please contact us at support@remedyconnect.com. If you have any concerns regarding the security of information, please do not provide any information to RemedyConnect, Inc. until you are comfortable with our security measures.
Correct/Update
You may correct or update your User Registration information at any time, by visiting the User Registration section and providing your personal password that you set at registration. If need be, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com.
Choice/Opt-Out
Our site provides users the opportunity to opt-out of receiving e-mail communications from our partners or us, except communications approved by your doctor's practice office. To so opt-out, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com. To be removed as a user, please email us at the same address. If need be, you may mail requests to us at RemedyConnect, Inc.
Contacting the Website
If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this Website, you can contact us by email at support@remedyconnect.com or by mail at our address above.
Privacy X