Minoxidil Side Effects | 16 Most Common + user pics - Hairguard
Skip to content
Growband
Scalp Elixir
Products
Laser Cap
Supplement
Shampoo
Dermastamp
Our Story
Account
Cart
Minoxidil Side Effects | 16 Most Common + user pics
Will Hartfield
69 Comments
Last Updated February 27, 2019
In this article I’m going to show you the most common side effects of using minoxidil. And YES, there are some which will make you think twice about using it!
I’ve used minoxidil myself (before I knew better) and I’ve talked to literally hundreds of men and women who have as well. So I know the most common issues that come up again and again.
We get comments like this all the time:
(Scroll down to the bottom to read more user comments)
Secondly, I’m going to show you the alternative that I use everyday instead. It’s 100% natural, cheaper and has been proven more effective than minoxidil in scientific studies.
Wait, what!!
You mean there is a completely natural substance that is even more effective at hair regrowth than minoxidil – but without the nasty side-effects??
YES – That’s exactly what I mean.
It’s like minoxidil but without the side effects.
The drug companies DO NOT want you to know about this!
Thirdly, I’ll show you the simple device can potentially increase the effectiveness of minoxidil or alternatives by a large degree. So you can use less and reduce the side effects even more.
Contents
Minoxidil In The Treatment Of Hair Loss
How It Is Applied?
How Much Is Taken?
How Long Does It Take To Work?
Consideration Before Using Minoxidil
Reported Common Side Effects
Rare Side Effects
Update! Bags Under Eyes & Dark Circles
Complications
Further Complications
Are There Any Alternatives To Minoxidil?
How To Make Topical Treatments More Effective
Update! Have You Heard Of Oleuropein?
Conclusion
Minoxidil In The Treatment Of Hair Loss
Minoxodil is a vasodilator which has been shown to reduce and slow hair loss in those who suffer from alopecia.
It is speculated that the active form of the drug, minoxidil sulfate, triggers the dilation of capillaries in the scalp which supply hair follicles, thus improving their function and stimulating hair growth.
It is thought that hairs which are already in the telogen phase – the final stage of a hair’s development, are shed as a result of this, to be replaced by stronger and healthier hairs in the anagen, or growth, phase.
It is often taken along with other synthetic drugs designed to prevent hair loss, such as finasteride, and is often required to be used as preparation for hair transplant surgery like Neograft.
How It Is Applied?
Minoxidil is commonly used in both foam and topical solution forms in the treatment of hair loss. It is commercially marketed and sold as Rogaine. It is applied topically and massaged into the scalp as a liquid, foam or cream
The drug is left to be absorbed into the scalp, where it is converted into its active form and stimulates the widening of the capillaries supplying blood and nutrients to the hair follicles.
How Much Is Taken?
The FDA has now approved the use of 5% minoxidil foam for both men and women, whereas the use of 5% topical solution has only been approved for men.
There is a 2% solution which was approved for women’s use in 1992. The manufacturer recommends that people use half a cap full, twice daily – in the morning and at night time.
How Long Does It Take To Work?
The manufacturer of Rogaine states that it may take up to four months to start seeing the effects of minoxidil topical solution and foam.
There is a body of anecdotal evidence suggesting that the topical solution leads to better results, as it is applied with more precision to the scalp, whereas the foam may be left on the stem of the hair if not properly massaged into the scalp.
In the case of people with advanced alopecia, there may be no positive effect at all.
If the scalp does not contain hair follicles, growth cannot be stimulated.
Here’s a study about 5% vs. 2% minoxidil for men and women.
Consideration Before Using Minoxidil
Minoxidil (MXD) is popularly used in topical form to curb the progress of androgenic alopecia and may not be appropriate for the treatment of other forms of alopecia.
If you are not sure as to the cause of your hair loss, consult your physician before using minoxidil, especially if you have no family history of hair loss.
If you already know that you are allergic to any of the ingredients, it goes without saying that you should avoid using it.
If you are allergic to propylene glycol, you should avoid using the topical MXD solution as it is known to provoke dermatitis in some people. Minoxidil foam does not contain propylene glycol.
Pregnant and breast-feeding women are advised not to use minoxidil as the drug’s effects on the fetus are not yet known, and it may well turn out to be harmful to unborn babies.
Those who are already taking other forms of medication and people with cardiovascular problems, hypertension and hypotension are advised to consult their physician before using minoxidil.
As the drug is absorbed into the blood, it is possible that it could interact with other medicines, with unforeseen effects.
MXD is not approved for use by those under 18 years of age as its effects have not fully been studied yet. If the area of skin you want to treat is inflamed or irritated, you should avoid use.
Don’t apply it to facial or body parts other than the top of your head, and be sure to wash your hands thoroughly after each application.
Minoxidil foam may cause dizziness, especially when used with alcohol or certain other drugs. It is advisable to apply it the first times in a safe environment so as to be able to gauge your reaction to the drug.
Avoid driving and other hazardous tasks until you are sure it won’t make you dizzy.
The alcohol in most MXD products can also cause itching and irritation, which is why an alcohol-free version is recommended.
I did a review of the popular minoxidil brand Kirkland and how it compares to Rogaine here.
Reported Common Side Effects
Most common side effects of using minoxidil do not pose an immediate threat to your health, but if they become bothersome, you should cease using the drug until you have consulted your physician.
The most common symptom is itching of the skin and the appearance of a rash.
As mentioned earlier, this is also a common allergic reaction to propylene glycol – if you are using minoxidil topical solution and experience such side effects, you may find that they disappear if you switch to using minoxidil foam.
Here are some user comments about their personal experiences:
Rare Side Effects
Severe side effects from using minoxidil are very uncommon, but urgent medical attention must be sought if any of the following symptoms are experienced:
Swelling of the hands or feet
Unexplained weight gain
Chest pain
Dizziness
Loss of consciousness
Difficulty breathing
Palpitations
Severe rashes, hives
Swelling of the tongue or lips
Many of the side effects listed above can be caused by absorption of too much MXD into the bloodstream. If you resume use of the drug, ensure that you are administering the correct dosage and check this your physician.
Update! Bags Under Eyes & Dark Circles
We get a lot of emails and comments from minoxidil users here at the website and one thing that seems to keep coming up is that dark circles can be one of the biggest unexpected effects.
And it doesn’t just seem like this is related to lack of sleep. There seems to be a clear connection for some users that minoxidil has caused dark circles around their eyes which hasn’t quickly cleared up even after stopping use.
If this is something you’ve experienced then please write a comment in the box at the bottom of the article giving your experience. This would be greatly appreciated.
Complications
Minoxidil foam and topical solution should only be applied according to specified directions. It should be kept well out of the reach of children.
If you get it in your eyes, nose or mouth, rinse it out immediately and thoroughly using cool water.
It should be stored in a securely and tightly closed container, away from direct sunlight or appliances which give off heat. It is ideally stored at room temperature (between 68 and 78 degrees Fahrenheit, or 20 and 25 degrees Celcius).
If you or another person have ingested minoxidil, you must seek emergency medical attention.
Do not smoke when using MXD foam or directly after using it, as the foam is highly flammable and contact with hot smoke or a flame could result in serious injury.
Minoxidil In The Treatment Of Hypertension & Related Side Effects
Minoxidil’s role as a vasodilator is also what helps it play an effective part in the treatment of hypertension. It is usually taken in pill form along with a diuretic.
By triggering a widening of the blood vessels, it helps reduce the overall pressure of the blood being pumped around the body.
As the body starts to adjust to the lower body pressure, users may experience dizziness and drowsiness.
This is a normal and expected side effect of using minoxidil in the treatment of hypertension, but it should not happen when using the drug as a topical treatment for hair loss, in which case treatment must be stopped and urgent medical attention must be found.
Other adverse effects that have been noted as a result of using minoxidil as a treatment for hypertension are:
Chest pain
Nausea
Vomiting
Changes in body hair
Fever
Headache
Further Complications
Perhaps more of interest to those using MXD as a topical treatment for hair loss, are the dermatological side effects sometimes associated with oral minoxidil.
Some of those treated noticed a change in the color of their body hair, along with longer and thicker hairs – a symptom of hypertrichosis.
The first areas to be affected are typically the temples and between the eyebrows, and may be noted between three and six weeks after commencement of treatment.
Cessation of treatment results in a lack of new growth, however, it can take up to six months of abstention from the drug to return the user’s appearance to normal.
A serious side effect of using oral minoxidil is increased salt and water retention. Up to 7% of those treated with the drug have been found to develop temporary edemas.
Likewise, in some cases, inflammation of the pericardium – the membrane surrounding the heart, has been noted, along with pericardial effusion – a serious condition.
It has also been noted that in 60% of those using the treatment, heart rhythm changes, although there is no outward presentation of this.
In addition to this, laboratory tests on blood, liver and kidneys may show changes in results, influenced by the use of minoxidil.
Likewise, such changes do not manifest themselves in any visible symptoms.
Are There Any Alternatives To Minoxidil?
Are there any alternatives to minoxidil that don’t have the horrible effects of using a chemical on your skin everyday?
Yes, there are.
They use natural ingredients to block DHT topically as well as promoting hair growth through increased circulation.
I have written longer articles about removing DHT from the scalp naturally, as well as making a homemade minoxidil so I won’t go into too much depth.
I recommend you read both of those articles, but I will summarise the alternative to minoxidil quickly here.
Ingredients:
Hyaluronic acid (6 parts)
Saw palmetto (1 part)
Apply polyphenol (1 part)
Tea tree oil (1 part)
Emu oil (2 parts)
Pumpkin seed oil (1 part)
The ‘parts’ represent the ratio of ingredients, so how much you make is up to you. You can store the mixture in the fridge for a month or so.
Rub the mixture into your scalp (especially around the area of thinning or receding hair.) Let the mixture sit on the scalp for around 10 minutes before washing off thoroughly with mild warm water.
A Simple, Natural Alternative To Minoxidil Without Side Effects
Here’s a recipe I use everyday to protect my hairline from receding.
It works more effectively than minoxidil, it’s also cheaper and doesn’t have the adverse effects of a chemical because you’ll only be using natural ingredients.
Firstly, take some magnesium oil. Magnesium oil helps reduce calcification in the scalp. With a 200ml bottle of magnesium oil add around 10ml of peppermint essential oil and 10ml of rosemary essential oil.
From the graph below it’s clear that peppermint oil (PEO) ranks above minoxidil (MXD) for hair regrowth effectiveness.
Even the title of the study from 2014 was “Peppermint Oil Promotes Hair Growth without Toxic Signs” showing that the side effects associated with peppermint oil are non-existant compared to minoxidil.
Source.
Both of these essential oils have proven to be more effective than minoxidil by themselves. They’re also natural, and easy and cheap to find. When mixed with magnesium oil they become even more powerful.
Mix thoroughly and use the magnesium spray bottle to apply to the hairline each night before bed. In the morning wash out the mixture with cool water.
How To Make Topical Treatments More Effective
There is a simple, yet incredibly effective way to make minoxidil, or even better, the natural alternatives I’ve suggested. This can allow you to use less of the liquid, which can help to decrease any adverse effects.
This method is to use a dermaroller, in a process called microneedling.
There are convincing studies that how microneedling helps to drastically increase the effectiveness of minoxidil.
Here are the results from a study conducted in 2013:
As you can see from the graph above, the mean hair count after 12 weeks for the dermaroller + minoxidil group was 317 vs. 218. That’s a 45% increase in effectiveness.
Here’s a further breakdown of the results:
Source.
As you can see from patients 1 and 2 below from the microneedling group, the results were impressive:
Source.
My point here is that if you’re worried about the adverse effects that are associated with minoxidil, firstly, why not try a homemade mixture that’s more effective and 100% natural?
Secondly, why not increase your results, so you can use less liquid by using a dermaroller, thereby decreasing associated adverse effects?
Update! Have You Heard Of Oleuropein?
Oleuropein is a compound derived from the leaves of the olive tree and it’s also found in argan oil.
There was a really interesting study done in 2015 on the topical application of Oleuropein for hair growth and how it compared to minoxidil, and I think you’ll find the results quite interesting.
Although the study was carried out on mice, and only lasted 28 days the results are very encouraging.
Oleuropein beat minoxidil in every criteria that the researchers used to assess how well topical solutions regrew hair, there were:
Hair follicle length
Hair follicle diameter
Number of hair follicles
Skin thickness (important for blood flow to hair follicle)
Dermal papilla cell proliferation
As you can see from the diagram below, after 28 days OP (Oleuropein) had regrown the hair more than MXD (minoxidil) and much more than the control.
Source.
The number of hair follicles, and the hair follicle diameter was also significantly better with OP than with MXD as you can see from the graph below:
Source.
The thickness of the skin can be used as an indicator for how well the hair will grow. With thicker dermal layer suggesting higher blood flow and nutriment going to the hair.
Again, we can see from the graphs from the 2015 study that OP clearly outperforms the control and the minoxidil topical solutions.
Source.
Finally, we can see the OP stimulates the growth of the number of viable dermal papilla cells (the cells responsible for growing the hair follicles.)
Source.
With all this evidence for the nasty side-effects of using minoxidil, and the evidence of the efficacy of natural alternatives, by now you should be asking yourself, why even use minoxidil at all?
Dermal papilla cells are basically like the starting points for new hair follicles. So they can be used as a strong indicator of overall hair health.
Let me ask you…
Personally when it comes to dealing with the very high possibility of nasty side-effects associated with minoxidil (like having big dark circles under my eyes and potential eye-sight problems) or using a natural ingredients like peppermint or Oleuropein, my choice is easy to make.
Conclusion
It is important to consult with a physician before taking minoxidil due to the various complications and nasty unintended effects that it can present.
Each individual may react differently to the drug, according to their personal circumstances and state of health.
It is impossible to know the short and long-term effects of using minoxidil in conjunction with other medications, although your health care professional will be able to tell you if you should avoid use.
Be that as it may, in the cases where side effects are reported as a result of minoxidil, most are not severe, and subside with cessation of usage.
By far the most likely side effect is irritation of the skin, which may not be caused by the active ingredient itself. In such cases, treatment may be continued by using minoxidil without propylene glycol.
Before using minoxidil, it is essential to understand the cause of hair loss.
Minoxidil has been shown to be effective in certain people who suffer from particular conditions such as androgenic alopecia, but is not an effective treatment for other types of hair loss, which may have other causes such as stress or fungal infection – for which there is often already a different, effective treatment.
Most Popular to Get Started:
SUPPLEMENT
LEARN MORE
GROWBAND
LEARN MORE
272 LASER CAP
LEARN MORE
ELIXIR
LEARN MORE
Information contained on this website has not been evaluated by any medical body such as the Food & Drug Administration. All information is for educational purposes only. We do not aim to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent and disease or illness. You must consult a medical professional before acting on any content on this website.
69 thoughts on “Minoxidil Side Effects | 16 Most Common + user pics”
Chug
16/02/2017 at 1:51 pm	 | Reply
Hey will. I have been having a tingling sensation in my scalp.my hair are thin and I have been using minoxidil after a break. Could the tingling mean that dht is removed or is it being deposited?
Will Hartfield
18/02/2017 at 12:54 pm	 | Reply
The tingling could be from the increased blood circulation that minoxidil causes, since its vasodilator and supposedly opens up the blood capillaries.
Chug
16/02/2017 at 1:57 pm	 | Reply
Does minoxidil block dht or not?
Will Hartfield
14/03/2017 at 1:58 pm	 | Reply
The way it works is generally believed to be via increased blood flow to the follicles, not by blocking DHT.
Taqi
24/05/2017 at 6:11 am	 | Reply
I’m using minoxidil from 2 months but from last week I’m feeling two much lazy and I feel itching on my arms and ears all the time. Should I stop using minoxidil topical solution ?
Will Hartfield
17/07/2018 at 9:46 am	 | Reply
You have to make the choice yourself, and with the help of a doctor. I think it’s already clear on what my personal opinion is.
Danny
29/09/2017 at 5:48 pm	 | Reply
Hi Will, now you mention it I do remember getting really bad dark circles around my eyes while I was on Rogaine. I didn’t think much of it at the time, but there was a noticeable difference, I just didn’t connect the two things. Thanks for pointing it out. All natural products or nothing at all for me, from now on.
Dan
Will Hartfield
29/09/2017 at 5:49 pm	 | Reply
Hi Danny, thanks for sharing that. That’s interesting! I wonder how quickly the dark circles went away after you stopped using it, if they ever did?
Regards
Will
Ravikant
03/10/2017 at 8:48 am	 | Reply
Thanks for sharing the natural alternatives. It looks like you did a lot of research into them. I used mxd for about 5 months, but I couldn’t stand the itching and I think my skin got dryer during that time. I want to try your product.
Will Hartfield
04/10/2017 at 3:28 pm	 | Reply
Hi Ravikant, yep it’s best to avoid any products with alcohol in them, such as most minoxidil products. I would highly recommend trying our Scalp Elixir instead.
Verisco
22/10/2017 at 9:42 pm	 | Reply
I used minoxidil for 4 1/2 months, and just recently stopped. I was sick for 4 weeks with nausea/diarrhea in the mornings, which started around 3 1/2 months and continued to get worse until I realized it was the minoxidil causing it. I’m feeling better now, it’s been a few days since I’ve used it.
Honestly despite promising initial results in the first month (had plenty of vellus hairs appear on my cheeks, neck, etc.) the progress didn’t improve much after that and I achieved sparse transitional hairs for the most part. Guess they’ll be falling out now. I honestly used it to grow a beard, not for my head. Sucks watching my dream die again, and I doubt any of these natural prducts can help with that either.
Will Hartfield
23/10/2017 at 9:24 am	 | Reply
Hi Verisco,
Thanks for sharing your experience with Minox, can I ask which specific product it was you were using?
I’ve never heard first-hand about this particular type of side effect. I think these chemicals can affect the body in weird and unexpected ways.
Have you thought about trying our Scalp Elixir? Studies show the ingredients we use can be more effective than minoxidil for regrowth, but are completely natural. I would recommend trying it for 2 months and seeing how you get on.
Will
Dan
01/11/2017 at 12:25 pm	 | Reply
Hi, how do you apply the oleuropein? Is it safe or beneficial to leave any of these “potions” on your scalp during the day or are they all rinsed off due to oiliness?
Will Hartfield
03/11/2017 at 4:48 am	 | Reply
In general, the longer you leave them on the better, because they have longer to absorb. However, they can make the hair look oily, which is why the best option is to leave them on overnight and then rinse out in the morning. The other option would be to apply on when you don’t mind your hair looking oily and then lightly rinse out (leaving some of the ingredients still on the scalp.)
Divya
01/11/2017 at 6:04 pm	 | Reply
I am suffering with vertigo since 3 mnths bcz of using minoxydil .. initially I got rashes, bumps ,itching,ring sound in ears..I had MRI and ent checkups done.. everything is normal.despite using many medicines I cudnt get rid of vertigo..is this a permanent side effect of minoxydil..???I am worried..plz suggest ..
Will Hartfield
06/11/2017 at 5:02 am	 | Reply
I have never heard about vertigo from using minox. The other effects sound quite typical though. You would definitely want to talk to your doctor about this, but I would be confident that the effects would fade.
D Jan
01/11/2017 at 7:49 pm	 | Reply
I used minoxidil 5% + 12.5% cream for one month. I stopped it because I couldn’t breathe and there was black circle around my eyes, and Im still not feeling good with chest pain and heavy breathing.
Will Hartfield
06/11/2017 at 5:00 am	 | Reply
Hey there,
Thanks for the comment. Those are some quite serious side-effects. I would definitely recommend going for a all-natural approach if you want to continue with a topical treatment.
Mark
06/11/2017 at 7:51 pm	 | Reply
Hi,
Many thanks for posting this information. Out of interest how long generally does the peppermint, rosemary in magnesium oil take to see results in hair growth?
Will Hartfield
07/11/2017 at 5:57 am	 | Reply
It varies for everyone. Some people don’t see results at all. Some people see new hairs after a month or so. If you’re only using topical treatments then you shouldn’t expect too much though because the problem really needs to be attacked from multiple angles.
Josh
12/11/2017 at 5:44 am	 | Reply
Hey, I started using 5% mxd for maybe 3 months and whenever I smoked weed I would get a crazy fast heart rate and my blood pressure would drop extremely low. I’ve started using the 2% but i find I always need to use extra to cover all the areas of balding this I’ve been doing this method for around 1 week now and I’m still noticing an increased heart rate (especially when I smoke) and I still get occasional chest and kidney pains would it be dangerous to continue use of minoxidil? (I am definitely going to try your natural product regardless by the way) thanks 🙂
Josh
12/11/2017 at 5:53 am	 | Reply
I use extra minoxidil to get the product through my long hair and all over the areas which are balding, with the 5% I noticed dark circles, light headidness, rapid heart rate, palpitations and the occasional chest/kidney pain. I’ve switched to the 2% and am still applying too much to my hair (maybe double the dose) and am finding that my body is overall uncomfortable with the dark circles still persisting, rapid heart beat for a couple hours after applying, and still the occasional body pains. (I’m going to be using this natural product regardless). I am honestly quite concerned what my now 4month trial with this drug has done to my body, will the effects be long term? Should I stop taking the product all together? Or should I just start applying abnormal dose of the 2%?(would a normal dosage at this point still be dangerous to my health?). I know, lots of questions and I would be very much appreciative if you could help out thanks so much!
Adal
15/11/2017 at 4:27 am	 | Reply
When you say rashes and hives does that mean it could develop anywhere on my body like the lower half aswell. Because it’s my 2 month of using Monoxidil and I have red bumps and constant itches on my lower and upper part of the body
Will Hartfield
15/11/2017 at 5:36 am	 | Reply
Yes it’s a possibility. I have heard of people getting it, not just on or close to the scalp. Did the itching start at a similar time to when you started minox?
Uriel Hurtado
21/11/2017 at 9:59 pm	 | Reply
Hi, I’m from Colombia, I have used minoxidil for 3 months and in the last two weeks dark circles have appeared around my eyes. Also,
I have felt pain chest occasionally, which is probably due to minoxidil
Will Hartfield
22/11/2017 at 6:42 am	 | Reply
Thanks for your comment Uriel.
Gupta
27/11/2017 at 3:22 am	 | Reply
How often can we use the scalp elixir sir per week? with the 6 parts. I have scalp itching that has improved with acv + peppermint oil + tea tree oil + rosemary oil BEFORE SHOWER EVERYDAY FOR 30 MINS, regenepure dt shampoo every other day — what do you recommend?
ankit
04/01/2018 at 6:57 pm	 | Reply
how is your hair condition after using it ?
Martin
04/12/2017 at 12:54 pm	 | Reply
Hi, I have been using Minoxidil for 16 months and I have noticed this year my skin under the eyes is very tired and looks wrinkly and I have puffy dark bags under my eyes. The other side effect I have noticed is blurred vision. I didnt know what was causing it, I taked to my optician and they couldnt really help. Only then I came across an article where blurred vision is quoted as one of the recently reported side effects. I stoppped using Minoxidil two weeks ago and I have not yet seen any improvement in my skin under my eyes and I still blurred vission. Do you know if theese side effects are reversable and if so how long it may take to get back to normal? Thank you.
Will Hartfield
04/12/2017 at 11:06 pm	 | Reply
Hi Martin, thanks for your feedback on what you experienced. Puffy dark bags seem to be fairly common for users. The blurry vision is a less known effect, but that is quite scary. I would be hopeful that your bags and vision would return to normal over the next few months. It’s hard to say though, it varies for everyone. I don’t know why it has this effect on the eyes and eye bags in particular. it would be worth looking into. Could you update us with your progress in a few weeks or months?
Thanks
Will
Totti
27/12/2017 at 12:50 pm	 | Reply
Hello will ! I used minoxidil like 1 year.. from when i start to use i was feeling tierd ..now i can discover that i have blur vision .. now i wear glass ..Is not a big problem but .. Is not ok . I feel my eyes tierd on night ..sensible to the light and dry .. I was thinking abouth the brake i did from minoxidil ego 4 mouths ..that i didant feel tierd ..eyes blur or red.. no problems. I only have 1 day from stop using because i sow many complains here abou5h eyes vision. Do u think i will have back my comfort zone of eyes ? I dont think abouth haire lose anymore .. What natural advices do u have ? Thank y
Steph
17/04/2018 at 12:21 am	 | Reply
Hi Totti,
The only way to know is to stop minoxidil.
I would also recommend you take a look at this guide: https://www.hairguard.com/scalp-secrets/
These are natural ways to treat hair loss.
– Steph
Dennis
08/01/2018 at 10:35 pm	 | Reply
I applied it on my beard, but I started experiencing hair loss on my head, why?
Will Hartfield
09/01/2018 at 9:22 am	 | Reply
I’ve never heard of this happening before to be honest.
Adrian
13/01/2018 at 4:55 am	 | Reply
Hi Will. Could you add the Oleuropein to the Magnesium, Peppermint and Rosemary Oil mixture? If so, how much would you recommend adding in terms of ml? I was thinking of doing that in combination with the derma rolling 3 or 4 times a week.
Will Hartfield
17/07/2018 at 9:44 am	 | Reply
Yes that could work. I would only dermaroll once per week though. Your skin needs time to recover.
ken
19/01/2018 at 2:27 am	 | Reply
I used minoxidil 5% for 4 months, I have same problem like dark circle,
my eye colour became a black, how to solve this problem?
Will Hartfield
19/01/2018 at 3:18 am	 | Reply
The first step is to stop using the product and move over to something completely natural. I suggest taking a look at our Scalp Elixir as an alternative. As for proactively reducing the dark circles, I am not entirely sure how you would do this. You could try using cold cucumber slices placed on the eyes. It should fade over time.
Syed
24/01/2018 at 5:09 pm	 | Reply
I’m 16 years old. I consulted a doctor . He gave me minoxidil 10 % topical solution. I’m using it for a week. Today I had a face swelling, what should I do?
Will
20/03/2018 at 5:58 am	 | Reply
Hello Syed, this is terrible. You need to immediately stop using it. It sounds like you are allergic. Swelling is one of the common problems that people are reporting.
Dominic
25/01/2018 at 9:33 pm	 | Reply
I have been using minoxidil only for my beard for 5 months now and I have started losing my hair around in from of my head, the hair over there has become very thin forming M shape in front of my head, please can I apply some on where I’m losing hair or stop usage. And I want to know is it only used for the head or the beard?
jsfreak
28/01/2018 at 8:33 am	 | Reply
I have been using minoxidil 5% since 3 month on my beard and moustache and i feel unbelievable change, I got large amount of beard and thicker moustache, I suggest to all those who are feeling shy to be in front of the society because of lack of facial hair.
palak
06/03/2018 at 10:18 am	 | Reply
I can not find in market Oleuropein. Is it olive oil? or am i use olive oil replace of Oleuropein? Thanks.. please how am i make this in home remedy and how much use it. I use it for my beard….
Vikash
02/03/2018 at 6:06 pm	 | Reply
I have been using minoxidil topical solution 10%. I am suffering from bad effects from it. My head has swollen and dry scalp and suffering from itchiness and headaches.
Will
14/03/2018 at 4:22 am	 | Reply
Hello Vikash, thanks for sharing your experience.
Vito
08/03/2018 at 6:11 am	 | Reply
How much of the Magnesium oil/peppermint essential do you recommend using per application.
Will
14/03/2018 at 4:16 am	 | Reply
Hi Vito, I do recommend taking a look at our Grogenix Scalp Elixir. Our formulation uses mag oil and PEO (along with some other proven ingredients) and most people who try it end up switching completely from minox products.
Ray
11/03/2018 at 4:27 pm	 | Reply
I have had I diagnosable vision loss with optic nerve swelling in the right eye. I have used Rogaine for more than a decade. Have you had other reports of this?
Will
12/03/2018 at 12:54 am	 | Reply
Hi Ray, I’m sorry to hear this. There do seem to be a lot of complaints related to the eyes from users of minox products. Whether it directly caused your issues it’s hard to tell. Personally if I was in your situation I would start using an alternative such as our Scalp Elixir which is 100% natural.
abhi.kr.tiwari
30/03/2018 at 1:04 pm	 | Reply
Hi, Can we use your Scalp Elixir soon after Hair Transplant or we’d have to wait for some time?
Will
02/04/2018 at 1:18 am	 | Reply
This isn’t something I really feel confident commenting about, since the Scalp Elixir has not been formulated and tested on transplanted hair. I would be extremely cautious about using it in the short term after a hair transplant. Even then, I would only use a small amount on a small area of hair to test it first. I would also consult your clinic about using topicals.
David
10/04/2018 at 9:01 am	 | Reply
Hi will my question to you is which one of the two options that you gave us work better? The first one with the 6 ingredients or the one with the Oleuropein?
Will Hartfield
17/07/2018 at 9:42 am	 | Reply
It’s up to you. Try both and see which one you prefer. You can also add Oleuropein to the first mixture. They are not mutually exclusive.
Rajeev
15/04/2018 at 7:51 am	 | Reply
I have lost too many hairs, it can be due to stress as my girlfriend left me, because of my irregular diet, or may be due to genetic, although my father has still some hair on top of his head at the age of 60, but both my uncles are completely bald.
I researched for hair transplant but did not find it effective without finesteride which I don’t want to use, so I left with this idea.
Now I found derma roller effects with minoxidil. But again because of minoxidil long term use I don’t want to go with it.
Deepak
03/05/2018 at 3:47 am	 | Reply
Hello,
I have sufficient hairs but last one month having hair fall physician told me to use MINOXIDIL solution. I’m using it since last 30 Days but there is no improvement in hair fall and hair gain.
I asked Physician he told me that it removes dead hairs.
What would you like to say that Still I should continue to use this or not.
Or, would you like to suggest me for stop hair fall.
Will
03/05/2018 at 5:49 am	 | Reply
There is usually a shedding period with minox products. During that period you can expect more to fall out than to regrow. It looks like you’re still going through that period. Our overall stance on minoxidil is that we don’t recommend it. The reason is, it’s a harsh chemical with well known side-effects, and it doesn’t address the real root cause of your hair loss. As soon as your stop using it you’ll lose all the hair you’ve gained/kept, and you’ll be back to where you started (maybe even with some added side-effects such as dark circles around your eyes.)
Nadia
14/05/2018 at 1:01 pm	 | Reply
Hi there so my dermatologist prescribed me oral minoxidil and I’ve been on it for 2 months now. For the last 6 weeks I’ve had headaches, chest pain, and more recently my skin has become sensitive and broken out into rashes (which I have never had before) and this morning I woke with dark purple and pink puffy eyes as though I had been in a small fist fight. I’m scared to continue the medication but I’m even more scared to stop as my hair just started to settle down and the amount of hair loss in a day had also slowed. As a girl I’m terrified to lose my hair.
Will
15/05/2018 at 3:05 pm	 | Reply
Hi Nadia, thanks for sharing your story with us. Unfortunately, these kind of effects are not uncommon. Whether you decide to keep using it is up to you and your dermatologist. You probably know by now that we’re not advocates of using minoxidil. First things first, have you optimised your nutrition? If not, get started with our meal plan. You can do so much just by getting your nutrition right.
Thanks and all the best,
Will
Ashraf
21/05/2018 at 8:40 am	 | Reply
I’m using Minoxidil for more than four years and recently started side effects like heavy dandruff and severe itching on scalp and forehead plus dark circles around eyes
Last year I have started using 1mg finistrade as per doctor’s advise and within a month time problems started like ED
I wanted to stop both of these medicines and at the same time would like to stop hair fall/regain lost hair
Can you please suggest an alternate and as I’m from UAE please advise where can I find your products
Will
25/05/2018 at 12:24 pm	 | Reply
Hello Ashraf, firstly I’m not a doctor, this is just my opinion, you need to do your own research. Sorry to hear about your side effects. They can be very common with powerful drugs like these. I would firstly recommend looking into our Hair Equilibrium program. Lots of people using this program have achieved regrowth without drugs.
Andy
01/09/2018 at 6:10 am	 | Reply
Dude, the peppermint vs minoxidil oil was tested on shaved mice. The mice were not balding, they had been shaved! It has no obvious bearing on balding men.
Will Hartfield
07/09/2018 at 5:56 am	 | Reply
Hi Andy it’s a good point. However we can still use it as a strong indicator that PEO works through the same mechanism as minoxidil (increasing blood flow) and would therefore be beneficial for men with MPB which has it’s root cause in lack of blood flow to the follicles. Yes, ideally we’d like to see a study done on humans with MPB but since human trials are much more expensive and PEO isn’t a patentable ingredient, it’s very unlikely that study will ever receive the funding it needs. The truth is that topical products have limited effectiveness, and you should mostly focus on other methods to get back your healthy hair.
Maria
21/10/2018 at 12:21 am	 | Reply
Hi Will, I just received and will start with your shampoo and elixir (thanks and thanks for all the information!) – I would rather not leave the elixir in all night and rinse out in the morning due to longer hair and a tendency to catch colds in cold weather (and not being a “morning person”). Is there anything magic about that, or can I experiment with applying the elixir earlier in the day and rinsing out at night? Thanks!
Will Hartfield
15/11/2018 at 3:57 pm	 | Reply
Hi Maria, the general rule is that the longer the topical is in contact with the hair/scalp the more effective it will be. It’s up to you what time you leave it in your hair. Most people just do it overnight since that’s the easiest.
Monir
09/11/2018 at 10:13 am	 | Reply
I am 22 years old.. I used minoxidil 2 month.. but now I have chest pain.. headache.. vomiting.. what can I do?
Will Hartfield
09/11/2018 at 5:28 pm	 | Reply
Hello Monir, I’m sorry to hear about your condition. These are fairly well known secondary effects. You should talk to your doctor about them and perhaps consider stopping using it?
ar ro
11/11/2018 at 8:52 am	 | Reply
1. Where are examples of succes of your treatment ?
2. You suggest an alternative treatment with oils and say that it ecpires after one month. how does your product lasts more ?
Bilal
25/11/2018 at 1:10 pm	 | Reply
I have always had dark circles under my eyes even before I started using minoxidil, I have been using minoxidil for about six months now and I’m not sure if the dark circles increased or not. However I was visiting a boutique store and the sales lady handed me samples of continuous eye moisture cream. It’s needs to be applied under the eyes, after my second use it I did notice a difference as in the dark circles were reduced, I have now applied it for the 4th time and I’m confident that it will reduce the dark circles as I continue to use it. just posting it anyone else who is having the same issue.
I would suggest getting a sample before you purchase the bottle. From the ones I sure I have done four applications, and I’m sure there is one or two more left in there.
Hasan
29/03/2019 at 12:21 pm	 | Reply
Can I use pumpkin seed oil instead of magnesium oil? Or I have to mix two.
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
ARTICLE CATEGORIES
Guides
Topical
Nutrition
Shampoo
Surgery
ACCOUNT
Your Account
Product Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy | Disclaimer
ABOUT US
About & Contact
We’re Hiring
Contact Us
info@hairguard.com
70 Upper Richmond Road, Putney, London, UK, SW15 2RP
All content is strictly the opinion of the Hairguard writers and is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to treat, cure or diagnose any disease. Readers are advised to consult a certified medical professional.
© 2019 | Hairguard
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy