Tinea pedis | DermNet NZ
logo-new
This page was printed on
25th April 2019
DermNet NZ RANDOM random RANDOM TRANSLATE TRANSLATE CLOSE SEARCH modal-close SEARCH DERMNET
logo-new
Home Topics A–Z Images Browse Glossary CME Quizzes About Contact Jobs
Home
Topics A–Z
Images
Browse
Glossary
CME
Quizzes
About
Contact
Jobs
Donate
breadcrumbs Home » Topics A–Z » Tinea pedis
Tinea pedis
Original page created in 2003. Updated by Dr Thomas Stewart, General Practitioner, Sydney, Australia. DermNet NZ Editor in Chief: Adjunct A/Prof Amanda Oakley, Dermatologist, Hamilton, New Zealand. Copy edited by Gus Mitchell. April 2018.
What is tinea pedis?
Tinea pedis is a foot infection due to a dermatophyte fungus. It is the most common dermatophyte infection and is particularly prevalent in hot, tropical, urban environments.
Interdigital involvement is most commonly seen (this presentation is also known as athlete’s foot, although some people use the term for any kind of tinea pedis).
Tinea pedis may be accompanied by tinea cruris, tinea manuum or tinea unguium.
What causes tinea pedis?
The three most common dermatophyte fungi causing tinea pedis are:
Trichophyton (T.) rubrum
T. interdigitale, previously called T. mentagrophytes var. interdigitale
Epidermophyton floccosum
Tinea pedis
See more images of tinea pedis ...
Who gets tinea pedis?
Tinea pedis usually occurs in males and adolescents/young adults, but can also affect females, children and older people. Infection is usually acquired by direct contact with the causative organism, for example using a shared towel, or by walking barefoot in a public change room.
Other risk factors include:
Occlusive footwear (for example, heavy industrial boots)
Excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis)
Underlying immunodeficiency or diabetes mellitus
Systemic corticosteroids or immune suppressive medications
Poor peripheral circulation or lymphoedema.
What are the clinical features of tinea pedis?
Tinea pedis tends to be asymmetrical, and may be unilateral. It usually presents in one of three ways:
Itchy erosions and/or scales between the toes, especially between 4th and 5th toes
Scale covering the sole and sides of the feet (hyperkeratotic/moccasin type, usually caused by T. rubrum)
Small to medium-sized blisters, usually affecting the inner aspect of the foot (vesiculobullous type).
It can also uncommonly cause oozing and ulceration between the toes (ulcerative type), or pustules (these are more common in tinea pedis due to T. interdigitale than that due to T. rubrum).
How is the diagnosis of tinea pedis made?
The diagnosis of tinea pedis can be made clinically in most cases, based on the characteristic clinical features. Other typical sites, such as toenails, groin, and palms of the hands, should be examined for fungal infection, which may support a diagnosis of tinea pedis.
Diagnosis is confirmed by skin scrapings, which are sent for microscopy in potassium hydroxide (when segmented hyphae may be observed) and culture (mycology). Culture may not be necessary if typical fungal elements are observed on microscopy.
What is the differential diagnosis of tinea pedis?
The differential diagnosis of tinea pedis includes:
Foot eczema — especially pompholyx (pedopompholyx), or irritant contact dermatitis due to persistent moisture between closely adherent toes
Contact allergic dermatitis to a component of footwear (such as a rubber accelerant, shoe adhesive, potassium dichromate used as leather tanning agent, or fabric dye)
Psoriasis (plantar psoriasis)
Plantar pustulosis
Plantar keratoderma.
These inflammatory disorders are more likely to be symmetrical and bilateral. Mycology is negative.
What is the treatment for tinea pedis?
General measures should be first-line, including meticulous drying of feet, especially between the toes, avoidance of occlusive footwear, and the use of barrier protection (sandals) in communal facilities.
Topical antifungal therapy once or twice daily is usually sufficient. These include azoles, allylamines, butenafine, ciclopirox, and tolnaftate. A typical course is 2 to 4 weeks, but single dose regimes can be successful for mild infection [1,2].
For those who do not respond to topical therapy, an oral antifungal agent may be needed for a few weeks. These include:
Terbinafine
Itraconazole
Fluconazole
Griseofulvin (this may be inferior to other oral agents and may not be available in some countries) [3,4].
Patients with the hyperkeratotic variant of tinea pedis may benefit from the addition of a topical keratolytic cream containing salicylic acid or urea [5].
How can recurrence of tinea pedis be prevented?
To minimise recurrence of tinea pedis:
Dry feet and toes meticulously after bathing
Use desiccating foot powder once or twice daily
Avoid wearing occlusive footwear for long periods
Thoroughly dry shoes and boots
Clean the shower and bathroom floors using a product containing bleach
Treat shoes with antifungal powder.
If treatment of tinea pedis is unsuccessful, consider reinfection, coexistent untreated fungal nail infection, reinfection due to untreated family member, or an alternative diagnosis.
Related information
References
Crawford F, Hollis S. Topical treatments for fungal infections of the skin and nails of the foot. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007; 18(3): CD001434. PubMed
Korting HC, Tietz HJ, Bräutigam M, Mayser P, Rapatz G, Paul C. One week terbinafine 1% cream (Lamisil) once daily is effective in the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis: a vehicle controlled study. LAS-INT-06 Study Group. Med Mycol. 2001; 39(4): 335–40. PubMed
Gupta AK, Cooper EA. Update in antifungal therapy of dermatophytosis. Mycopathologia. 2008; 166 (5-6): 353. DOI: 10.1007/s11046-008-9109-0. PubMed
Bell-Syer SE, Khan SM, Torgerson DJ. Oral treatments for fungal infections of the skin of the foot. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012; 10: CD003584. PubMed
Kircik LH, Onumah N. Use of naftifine hydrochloride 2% cream and 39% urea cream in the treatment of tinea pedis complicated by hyperkeratosis. J Drugs Dermatol. 2014 Feb. 13(2): 162–5. Journal
On DermNet NZ
Tinea
Introduction to fungal infections
Laboratory tests for fungal infections
Treatment of fungal infections
More images of tinea pedis
Mycology of dermatophyte infections
Conditions affecting the feet
Other websites
Tinea pedis – Medscape Reference
Patient information: Ringworm, athlete’s foot, and jock itch (The Basics) – UpToDate (for subscribers)
Patient information: Ringworm (including athlete's foot and jock itch) (Beyond the Basics) – UpToDate (for subscribers)
Management of Tinea Pedis – International Foundation for Dermatology
Books about skin diseases
See the DermNet NZ bookstore.
Recently added pages
Splinter haemorrhage
Aeroallergens and the skin
Peanut allergy
Fibroepithelioma of Pinkus
Spindle cell melanoma
Legius syndrome
Annular lichenoid dermatitis of youth
Erythema gyratum repens
Chronic spontaneous urticaria
Chronic inducible urticaria
Periorificial dermatitis in children
Naevus simplex
Hypogonadism in males
Dermatology Made Easy Book
Tweets by dermnetnz
Self-skin examination
Smartphone apps to check your skin - Learn more. Sponsored content.
With your help, we can update and expand the website.
Sign up to the newsletter
Full name
Email address
Tell us your profession or specialty Please select I am a dermatologist Primary care physician Other health professional Other (not health professional) Medical student or physician in training Patient or caregiver Marketing/media
SPAM PROTECTION - DO NOT FILL THIS FIELD IN
DermNet NZ does not provide an online consultation service. If you have any concerns with your skin or its treatment, see a dermatologist for advice.
youtube
Contact us
Sponsors Donate Website terms FAQ Advertising policy Privacy policy Image licence Newsletter Volunteer Submit a photo
logo-new-white
© 2019 DermNet New Zealand Trust.
Creative Commons License
print-logo-footer
© 2019 DermNet New Zealand Trust.
DermNet NZ does not provide an online consultation service. If you have any concerns with your skin or its treatment, see a dermatologist for advice.