Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake: March 2014
Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake
Welcome to the Podiatry Blog of Dr Richard Blake of San Francisco. I hope that the information here will help you in some way. Please feel free to leave a comment on the blog, or email me questions at drblakeshealingsole@gmail.com. If the blog helps you, consider a $5 donation to keep the blog growing. Thank you so very much for the generosity. Dr Rich Blake
Total Pageviews
Followers
Search This Blog
Paypal Button for Donations
Monday, March 31, 2014
Monday's Images of the Week: MRI views of normal and injured plantar fascia
These are some of the MRI images I look at when evaluating the plantar fascia for injuries. I wanted to show mainly the coronal images which typically show the injury the best.
On this first view we see the sensor is just under the medial slip of the plantar fascia which is healthy when dark black as in this case. The "itis" of plantar fasciitis is seen by the white under the darker plantar fascia.
These next views follow the medial slip of the plantar fascia about 3 inches in front of the heel towards the arch. So, this image is closer to the arch than the first one I showed.
Check as normal plantar fascia gets closer to the arch it will thin out, but remain dark black. The area under and around the sensor is the normal fat pad of your heel. The heel bone is dark black above the plantar fascia.
As we go further out into the arch, the wonderful arch muscles and veins and tendons all come into view.
Here is the final coronal view of the plantar fascia. We have traced it from under the heel forward into the arch. You can appreciate all the incredible structure in the arch.
Same patient but now we are looking form the side. See how the plantar fascia starts under the heel and goes into the arch. It should look solid, consistent, and one thickness.
Unfortunately this is on the opposite side. See the plantar fascia above the sensor is very dark on the bottom and irregular/gray on the top. This is an old plantar fascia partial tear which has somewhat healed.
This is the same patient from above with the old plantar fascial tear. Compare this side view with the image 2 above. See in this image the plantar fascia is thinner by the heel, then gets thick, then thins out as you go into the arch. This thinner area by the heel is the first hint something is wrong. We know by looking at other images that that area was injured and attempting to heal.
Here is another patient with an acute (just happened) plantar fascial tear. The plantar fascia has just exploded from the heel.
Same patient from above. Missing plantar fascial medial slip due to recent tear. We will now follow this forward into the arch. See how the plantar fascia starts to show normalcy as we move forward.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:12:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Images of Plantar Fascial Tear
Sunday, March 30, 2014
Sunday's Video of the Week on CRPS: Wonderful Lecture by Dr Deepak Chopra
I had the pleasure of attending this great lecture in 2013. It changed my treatment thoughts on CRPS. It may me favor Ketamine Infusion over Spinal Cord Stimulator in severe cases. And now Calmare Pain Therapy seems to have a valid place. As a podiatrist I can only recommend some treatments, but this is in the world of pain management specialists rightfully so.
http://youtu.be/6_NzhnAXX2c
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:16:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: CRPS, Dr Deepak Chopra (pain specialist Rhode Island)
Saturday, March 29, 2014
Saturday's Exercise of the Week: Bunion Joint Strengthening
As you begin your treatment to maintain your bunions in an attempt to avoid surgery, think about all the possible treatment choices you have available.
My common checklist for my bunion patients includes: (and my blog is full of these tips)
A) Toe Separators
B) Yoga Toes
C) Digital Stretches and possible Night Splint
D) Shoe Selection (so as not to push too hard)
E) Padding to Off Weight the Bunion Area
F) Icing as needed
G) Abductor Hallucis Strengthening (this video shows the patient attempting to train the toe to pull down as straight as possible)
http://youtu.be/V487w7IM_2c
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
H) Taping occasionally
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:42:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Abductor Hallucis Strengthening for Bunions, Bunions
Friday, March 28, 2014
Friday's Patient Problem of the Week:Supination and ankle problems
Good Evening Dr. Blake
I am a 33 year old young man living in Los Angeles CA. I have been having ankle inflammation in my right ankle which started about 1 year and 7 months ago. It was a pretty simple episode that I got ankle cramp and I manipulated my ankle with my finger and got inflamed for over 8 months.
Dr Blake's comment: Inflammation in the ankle in somehow who stands like you do is very very common. It normally is a combination of muscle fatigue and mechanical stresses (flat feet, high arches, loose ligaments, tight muscles, etc). Typically, you place yourself into some logical problem of rest, bracing, anti-inflammatory, and stretching and strengthening. The rest part is activity modification where you try to sit more at work, or at least get a soft mat to stand on, and use weekends (days off) to recover.
During this time, I was trying to not put pressure on my right ankle so I was putting my body pressure on the left foot. The inflammation was not going down with taking lots of Ibuprofen 800 mg twice to 3 times daily. I was having burning sensation and warmth feeling around my ankle all the way down towards my heel.
Dr Blake's comment:Burning can be from a lot of causes---neurological coming from local or as high as your spine, vascular with poor circulation, and inflammatory with marked swelling. Unless there is more swelling than you describe, this burning may be from some stress on the nerves, however could be from swelling deep within the ankle joint.
I have high uric acid level which is approximately around 9.2 or little less over the past 12 years, and while suffering from burning and discomfort, my ankle would get a warmth feeling when I was wearing shoes. I saw couple of podiatrists where one gave me lidocaine injection to increase blood flow to reduce the inflammation, but it did not help me.
Dr Blake's comment: Nothing in the history you give sounds like gout, although there is mild versions of it. Typical Gout is red, hot, and swollen area, where you worry that there could be an infection in your workup. The high uric acid blood test could have just been a red herring.
Over the phase of 1 year I received 3 cortisone shots in my right ankle that it finally helped with the inflammation going down. When my ankle was inflamed, I was experiencing tingling sensation around my ankle which the tingling would be less when I was laying down on my bed.
Dr Blake's comment: So, your tingling was probably from deep swelling putting stress on the tarsal tunnel nerves. Nerve pain is so debilitating, and your body goes quickly into a self preservation mode to relieve it. However, this preservation mode normally produces way too much muscle atrophy and severe weakness settles in.
After about 1 year my left foot started burning around the ankle and I have changed many shoes but I would feel the burning getting worse as I wore every shoes. My wife noticed that I walked not straight and she brought it up to me every time I walked. After reading and doing a lot of research online, I came to conclusion that I have severe supination and I still have a little inflammation on the right ankle with the burning sensation and tingling.
Dr Blake's comment: Best to send me a photo of you standing, barefoot and in shoes, from the back of the heels. The photo should be from 2-3 feet behind you in good lighting. This will help me understand the severity of your severe supination. Supination, with the lateral instability it causes your ankle, could explain all of your symptoms. That would be nice.
http://youtu.be/bc2PRrtwemM
http://youtu.be/hxsNaBXT_ug
I have been seeing physical therapy for couple of sessions and they have gave me stretches and some work out but I need your help Dr. Blake. Please respond back and try to eliminate my pain and suffering that I am having for the past 1 year and 7 months. My job is a Pharmacist and I stand on my feet over 8 hours. Please please get back to me to find a solution to my suffering. I would really appreciate your concern and attention Dr. Blake if you can make my wishes of walking normal without any pain. GOD may bless you and your family for helping a young married man gain back his strength and be pain free.
my cell phone number is XXXXXXXXX please contact me if you have to and please help me with all my suffering.
Dr Blake's response:
Thank you so very much for your email. I have tried to give it some attention. I am glad you are going to the Physical Therapist since they can be my eyes in my attempt to help some.
The questions I would have from them:
1. Are you excessively supinating and, if so, can they design an inserts that completely eliminates that stress?
2. Do they think you have inflammatory pain or neuropathic pain? Neuropathic pain is true suffering. Ask them to teach you neural flossing and test for low back involvement.
http://youtu.be/Xs8Cl39LXQg
3. Can they give you an Air Cast Ankle Brace for more stability but not a lot of compression?
http://www.betterbraces.com/aircast-sport-stirrup-1
4. If it is neurological, you should have a doc involved that can give you oral meds, topical medications, and be able to order MRIs, EMGs, etc as indicated. All your pain can be coming from the low back because it is so hard to stand in spine neutral constantly in your job.
http://youtu.be/E0E60NpOSHg
5. Ask the physical therapist if an ergonomic evaluation of your work place can be done to make sure you know all the tricks at keeping your ankles and back healthy and minimally stressed.
I sure hope this helps you some.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:39:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Supination, Supination causing Ankle Problems
Dr Nancy Sajben, pain management extrordinaire!!
I recently had a patient who saw Dr Sajben for her chronic debilitating nerve pain (she flew down from San Francisco where I live to San Diego). Dr Sajben gave her advice and a RX for LDN (low dose naltrexone). This has been a miracle to restoring her function, giving her back the life she had lost. I just called and talked to the patient's husband. The reason the patient was not able to get to the phone was because she was on a 4 mile hike, something the last 8 years would never have happened. Chronic pain sufferers do not give up hope. There are some answers out there that many help you. When you see Dr Sajben's website you will see how many options are out there and that implies hope.
http://painsandiego.com/
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 8:33:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: CRPS, Low Dose Naltrexone, Nerve Pain, Pain Management
Thursday, March 27, 2014
Thursday's Orthotic Discussion of the Week: Asymmetry in Orthotic Control is Best
When you take impressions of patient's feet, there will always be differences in the overall foot structure. Study the casts and appreciate these differences. Decide if these differences, like more or less forefoot deformity, is important to correct fully. Orthotic labs overall love to even out the tilts, but these tilts may be important. Work with your lab on making sure they only even out when you prescribe, not routinely. Most of the time I see totally symmetrical orthotics, even when both feet look totally different, so I know this evening out occurs (and possibly not for the patient's best interest).
The true reason for this post is the asymmetry in the correction that so many feet need. Correcting asymmetrically, like the photo above, is needed often. This occurs since one foot may pronate more than the other, supinate more than the other, require more forward pitch than the other. The photo above shows more pronation (arch) support on the right, and more supination (outside) support on the left. Be critical of your orthotics, work with your labs, dare to be more asymmetrical in your Rx.
The goal really is to make both feet function close to symmetrical, and stable, no jerking, very smooth. With asymmetries, just make symmetrical orthotics will not feet function even. This is an old theory from the 1970's. Perhaps it worked more in rigid rohadur orthos and oxford or wingtip shoes. But, not in 2014. Think asymmetry for RX to make the feet function more symmetrical.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:41:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Custom Orthotic Devices, Orthotic Designs
Wednesday, March 26, 2014
Wednesday's Article of the Week: Gait Changes Post Big Toe Joint Fusion
So many of my patients with Hallux Rigidus do not like the thought of big toe joint fusion, and I share that thought. I have only two patients in my practice and they are doing well post surgery. I present this article abstract to help with pro/con list we all create when trying to choose between different treatments. I would still recommend joint fusion in only small instances, but when I do recommend the procedure articles like this help me feel better that the patient will do well afterwards.
Below are the foot x ray images of my patient who is doing very well with her big toe joint fusion. The hardware is scary, but she is stable, pain free, and comfortable walking. She is 2 years post fusion by our podiatrist Dr Remy Ardizzone. Dr Ardizzone is very skilled at cheilectomies (joint clean outs) and implants, but felt fusion due to the severe joint arthritis was the best option. My patient is happy with the results.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17296132?dopt=Abstract
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:16:00 PM 2 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Big Toe Joint Fusion, Hallux Rigidus/Post Op
New Website for Heel Pain Sufferers: I hope it helps millions!!
Hi-
I wrote to you a couple of months ago and asked if you would mind if I embed one of your videos onto a website I was building about heel pain. The one showing the plantar fasciitis wall stretch is the one that I wanted to use.
Just letting you know that the website is up and running if you want to see how it came out. Your video is located at:
http://heelpainrelief.net/physical-therapy-videos/
Hope you like the way it turned out. I have a link to your site also. I could add another one or two videos if you want; let me know if there is one specifically that would fit.
Again, thanks for your help. I really like your work...
Sincerely,
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 6:41:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Heel Pain, Heel Pain Website, Plantar Fasciitis
Calmare Therapy: A Rising Star for Nerve Pain (even CRPS)!?
Hi Dr. Blake, I have some very exciting news to share. I have been on the East Coast having some experimental treatments for the last three weeks. A new generation of electronic device that delivers healthy nervous system signals to the brain, somehow erasing old pain pathways.
I was very skeptical initially, seemed like one more silly Tens kind of gizmo, but I have been completely astounded at the results.
The technology does not rely on the Gate theory of pain, but rather on a different kind of signal theory.
Almost all of the pain and allodynia has been eliminated from my foot.
It is like a miracle.
I don't know how long this improvement will endure. Most patients experience some regression over time, and need additional treatments. and I also will have a lot of rehab to do to get a normal sock and shoe on that foot, and very gradually rebuild strength and endurance in walking.
But for right now it has given me so much hope to have relief from that horrible neuropathy that was like the worst kind of torture.
The name of the machine is called Calmar. There have been some small scale studies demonstrating efficacy, and larger scale trials, including at the Mayo Clinic, are now underway. It is effective with CRPS, post herpetic neuralgia, diabetic neuropathy, and post chemo therapy neuropathy. Goodness knows these are all patients who need help and hope.
I know you care so much about your patients and have been trying very hard to find solutions for me and others. I will send you more information when I get home.
Unfortunately my L5 – S1 disc issue, which was a sleeping tiger, has been set off by the travels, so I am having very painful sciatica now And will have to get that calmed down. But even that is nothing compared to the CRPS.
I'll be in touch with more information about Calmar, when I'm home and doing a little better.
I hope you are doing well and thank you again for all your care and concern.
Best to you,
http://youtu.be/GzbbkS-Imm0
http://youtu.be/KFkTEr-uz78
http://youtu.be/NElvi0ZYhYY
http://www.calmarett.com/pain/index.html
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 6:12:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Calmare Pain Therapy, CRPS, Nerve Pain, Neuropathic Pain, Peripheral Neuropathy
Tuesday, March 25, 2014
Tuesday's Patient Question of the Week: Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction
Dear Dr Blake:
Thank you for your wonderful blog and devotion to truly mastering your craft and helping others! Here is a patient question-of-the-week(I know you may not answer!)
I've had five years of dealing with chronic re-injury of the posterior tibial tendon and achilles.I've never let it go too far, but stop and rest for three weeks to three months, incorporating taping and strengthening until it feels strong enough and no pain.
After twenty practitioners and thousands spent on modalities and orthosis, I am no further ahead, although my first orthotic had a flange up the side-back of the heel that stabilized the foot and healed it more quickly. My longest time without injury was when I went minimalist, stuck to a soft trail and did steep hill workouts(I've loved running for 25 years; I miss it so very dearly).
I wonder if this strengthened my PT and achilles enough to stay running? I greatly reduced mileage.I went back to roads due to winter conditions on the trail and within months was injured again. It is so anxiety-provoking to live this crippled. Could a leg length discrepancy be at fault? I also have a pelvic tilt, according to my chiropractor, and hyper-eversion(valgus) of the affected foot at the ankle bone.And hip arthritis and OCD lesions in the knees, but the PTT is a deal-breaker. It seems I cannot keep this foot neutral, no matter how much work I do on my gait or core.I know the ankle seems "loose".
Will it help to build up my own orthotic(currently, a custom SOLE) How do I find the material and tools, and can I use duct tape?:) I am willing to experiment; I have done a lot of it with shoes and insoles, but feel a bit out of my league! Do you think you could make me an orthotic that works? I am 50 years old, but it is the new 80! I don't want to be in a wheelchair in ten years.
Thank you so much for your earnest blog and practice!
Marina (name changed)
Dr Blake's comment: Marina, thanks for your wonderful compliment. I have a wonderful love hate affair with Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction. Developing the correct orthotic device is a crucial first step in stabilizing you, along with arch taping, PTTD Braces and then tons of posterior tibial strengthening. Check out the many blog posts on this site on PTTD. It takes alot of work to get the right orthotic, so I would be happy to try if you want to come to San Francisco. Not a bad place to have a two week vacation. The minimum time would be an initial Fri afternoon visit for evaluation and orthotic stuff, followed by a dispense visit on Monday AM. This has to be all arranged. Perhaps followup can be done locally by a podiatrist or orthotist. Contact me directly through by email and I will arrange things, give me 2 or 3 weekends that you can do this. If their is someone locally that can at least adjust my work, that would be wonderful. The video below discusses this problem.
http://youtu.be/PeD-lG3383A
http://youtu.be/pKWOKCgJVDQ
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:16:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Posterior Tibial Dysfunction
Monday, March 24, 2014
Monday's Image of the Week: Stretching a Very Tight Achilles
Patients whom have very tight achilles tendons can use this technique to stretch out very gently in a relatively short time. An exercise band (like this yoga strap) is used to place a continuous stretch on the achilles tendon. The strap is anchored around the waist so that the patient does not need to stand or hold the band during the prolonged stretch. A towel is placed under the foot to protect the foot. Then, heat is applied under the calf for 20 minutes, and then switched to a 10 minute ice pack. The secret is to hold the stretch consistently and painlessly for the entire 30 minutes. You need a friend/partner to help with set up and to change the heat pack to ice pack at the 20 minute time interval. Dramatic increases in flexibility are noted within several weeks. Typically this is done every third day, with normal stretching 3 times per day on the off days. It is important to protect the knee while holding this stretch by rolling a towel under the knee to keep it slightly bent. You must make sure your spine is stable as you rest against a firm supportive surface. Stop if any pain develops anywhere. Review with a physical therapist to make the exercise safer for you.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 8:46:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Achilles Stretching, Achilles Tendon Stretching for Very Tight
Sunday, March 23, 2014
Sunday's Video of the Week: Pain Management using Lasers
Later this week I will share 2 emails from patients with severe nerve pain both helped recently with laser treatment. I am going to research these topic to bring to you as it seems like a quantum leap forward in the treatment of many problems.
http://youtu.be/_qDKKhMz_mE
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:58:00 PM 2 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Lasers for Pain, Nerve Pain, Pain Treatment with Laser
Monday, March 17, 2014
Drawing Salve: Help to pull out problems out of your foot
Hi Dr. Blake,
This is the CPA with the dog hair stuck in her foot! Sorry it took me a while to email you, but here’s a link to the drawing salve I told you about:
http://www.cvs.com/shop/product-detail/CVS-Drawing-Salve-Ichthammol-Ointment?skuId=705149
Update on my foot - After I saw you, I soaked my left foot every night and after a few days, the hole started to get red and it hurt again. I continued to soak, but after soaking and rinsing off, I bandaged it with this drawing salve for 4 or so nights. The pain went away and I think the hole in my foot is closing up nicely now. One other thing, do you remember right before I left, I told you I thought I had another hair in my other foot, but we both didn’t see anything? It turns out I did have something in there! I started to feel a bump a day after I saw you. I soaked it for a week or so along with my left foot and whatever it was came out! Thanks!
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:00:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Drawing Salve, Lotions/Creams
Monday's Image of the Week: Infected Ingrown Toenail
'
This ingrown toenail involved both sides and had been present for over 3 years. The nail discoloration is from some attempt at using Silver Nitrate to shrink or cauterize the swollen tissue. The nail borders can not be seen due to the swollen borders. The patient is wrapping the toe for compression, soaking 1-2 times daily in salt water, and hopefully the infection will be cleared.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:30:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Infected Ingrown Toenail, Ingrown Toenails
Sunday, March 16, 2014
Sunday's Video of the Week: Personal Story of the development of CRPS
I am all too aware of this devastating problem. The smarter I become at understanding, the dumber I feel. I recently caused a flare of a CRPS patient by attempting some injections proximal (above) the area. I will be forever sorry for inflicting this on my patient. It has caused multiple sympathetic blocks in the spine to help calm down, and it is still not back to its pre-injection state. These problems are the some of the most serious treated by the health care profession. I am hoping they get recognized quickly in the process, so it has an easier time being quieted. The word easier is not really appropriate.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:00:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Complex Regional Pain Syndrome, CRPS
Saturday, March 15, 2014
Golden Rule of Foot #1: Treat Every Patient with the Same Respect, Kindness, Care and Concern
I have all of these Golden Rules I try (many times fail) to follow in my life. I love these rules of nature, of life, of love, of soul. My Golden Rules are sacred to me and I am miserable (or at least uncomfortable) when I break them. They extend into every facet of my life, so why not into my version of the practice of medicine. It is called the practice of medicine may I remind you all out there. I am practicing an art with my Golden Rules. Not a perfect art but full of the reasons that the word HEART has ART in it. These rules are sometimes taught in the medical schools, but mainly taught in the school of life. They really have no order, but society demands some bullet points, some indexing. Every person has their own golden rules, so think of your own as you reflect on mine. One of the keys is not to compartmentalize them, thus using drastically different rules in apparently different environments--like work versus home. As I meander through them with various posts, I hope you will stop for just a second reflecting on your own similiar golden rules.
Golden Rule of Foot #1: Treat every patient with the same respect, kindness, care, and concern.
This is #1 because it is at the very soul of medicine. If you think of your relationships with others you realize this is impossible at first glance. We are only human. We like some people more than others. Those we like we tend to treat better. Those we like better tend to get more respect, more kindness, more care, and more concern. But, we must continue to work towards this truly Golden Rule. It is sacred. It will bring out all of the values we hold true. As you try to follow this rule with someone you really don't like, humility and emptying of self must surface. A health care provider with humility, an interesting concept!! Can it be a reality? Trying to follow this rule will allow humility to begin, and true caring to unfold. Try, fail, try again, and keep trying throughout your life.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:30:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Golden Rules of Foot
Friday, March 14, 2014
Treatment can be affected by Looks
I think you'll like listening to this podcast from yesterday on NPR radio in which people talk about, and call in to describe reactions from friends, family, and strangers, to their "Invisible Physical Disability". Just click on the link and then hit the little yellow arrow on the upper left of the page.
http://www.kqed.org/a/forum/R201308191000
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 4:13:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Thursday, March 13, 2014
Thursday's Orthotic Discussion of the Week: Root Balanced Technique evaluated in a left Positive Cast
Dr Merton Root in the late 1960's developed many methods to stabilize feet. He developed a way to cast feet to achieve a reliable, reproducible foot. This cast, called a negative cast, was taken using plaster of paris splints and the foot was held in a certain way, and this became the Golden Standard of making orthotic devices. Once the cast was taken, the heel was placed straight
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:30:00 AM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Orthotic Design, Positive Casts, Root Balance Technique
Wednesday, March 12, 2014
Wednesday's Article of the Week: Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction: Regaining Strength is Crucial
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction is a devastating injury. Stage II is when the damage is not too great and the chances for a good rehabilitation are great. It is so important to combine Phase I of rehabilitation: Immobilization and Anti-Inflammatory with Phase II: Restrengthening. Start restrengthening the tendon is what ever way possible as soon as you can, but it has to be pain free!!!
Foot Ankle Int. 2008 Sep;29(9):895-902. doi: 10.3113/FAI.2008.0895.
The effect of Stage II posterior tibial tendon dysfunction on deep compartment muscle strength: a new strength test.
Houck JR, Nomides C, Neville CG, Samuel Flemister A.
Source
Ithaca College - Rochester, Physical Therapy, 1100 South Goodman, Rochester, NY 14620, USA. jhouck@ithaca.edu
Abstract
BACKGROUND:
The purpose of this study was to compare isometric subtalar inversion and forefoot adduction strength in subjects with Stage II posterior tibial tendon dysfunction (PTTD) to controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Twenty four subjects with Stage II PTTD and fifteen matched controls volunteered for this study. A force transducer (Model SML-200, Interface, Scottsdale, AZ) was connected with a resistance plate and oscilloscope (TDS 410A, Tektronix, Beaverton, OR) to the foot. Via the oscilloscope, subjects were given feedback on the amount of force produced and muscle activation of the anterior tibialis (AT) muscle. Subjects were instructed to maintain a plantar flexion force while performing a maximal voluntary subtalar inversion and forefoot adduction effort. A two-way ANOVA model with the factors including, side (involved/uninvolved) and group (control/PTTD) was used.
RESULTS:
The PTTD group on the involved side showed significantly decreased subtalar inversion and foot adduction strength (0.70 +/- 0.24 N/Kg) compared to the uninvolved side (0.94 +/- 0.24 N/Kg) and controls (involved side = 0.99 +/- 0.24 N/Kg, uninvolved side = 0.97 +/- 0.21 N/Kg). The average AT activation was between 11% to 17% for both groups, however, considerable variability in subjects with PTTD.
CONCLUSION:
These data confirm a subtalar inversion and forefoot adduction strength deficit by 20% to 30% in subjects with Stage II PTTD. Although isolating the PT muscle is difficult, a test specific to subtalar inversion and forefoot adduction demonstrated the weakness in this population.
)
http://youtu.be/QP3Ud4d39dc
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 6:20:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Posterior Tibial Dysfunction, posterior tibial strengthening exercises
Tuesday, March 11, 2014
Tuesday's Question of the Week: Do you have video links to help with an Ankle Sprain
Common compression wrap with felt horseshoe applied to the ankle after a sprain. The hole of the horseshoe should be over the bone with more compression over the ligaments and tendons around the bone. The tube compression is pulled over the top and every attempt is made not to have wrinkles.
Rich. My young Cousin in is Berlin w a stained ankle. Do you have any video links to care?
Best Regards,
Hey, Here are 4 of my youtube videos that are for ankle sprains. Rich
http://youtu.be/o2s9BtfZvNU
http://youtu.be/5_qC2FnS2RU
http://youtu.be/F3PyQT9ftnA
http://youtu.be/sekBTg7cowo
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:42:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Ankle Sprain Treatment Videos
Monday, March 10, 2014
Monday's Image of the Week: Abnormal Heel Wear as a Sign of Gait Problems
As this patient walks, his right heel scuffs the ground terribly causing tripping and foot slap. This is a neurological problem related to his low back. It is seen primarily at the heel of his right shoe (on the left side of the image below). As a podiatrist, I am trained to look for clues in shoe inserts and shoe outer sole wear patterns. Usually the clues are more subtle. This patient was having major nerve problems in the right low back, and the nerves were not firing appropriately.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:01:00 PM 3 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Drop, Heel Scuffing, Shoe Wear Patterns
Sunday, March 9, 2014
Sunday's Video of the Week: Introducing the Footfunnel: Could it solve the shoe horn problem?
So many of my injured, disabled, patients have a hard time getting into their shoes. Long shoe horns help, but not always. The Footfunnel may be a podiatrist's dream invention. Check it out.
http://youtu.be/kFRyZaun0Rg
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:29:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Footfunnel, Shoe Horn Replacement: Footfunnel
Saturday, March 8, 2014
Saturday's Exercise of the Week: Single Leg Balancing with Resistance Band Variation
I am always in search of wonderful and safe exercises that help us keep our lower extremities strong. This is a great exercise and a great addition to my original video on Single Leg Balancing. As we improve in our strength and stability, we need to find ways to make these exercises more and more challenging. It is easy to pick up these exercise bands (our office uses Theraband). Good luck.
http://www.amazon.com/Thera-Band-Light-Set-Resistance-Exercise/dp/B001EU9M1S/ref=sr_1_1?s=hpc&ie=UTF8&qid=1394342843&sr=1-1&keywords=theraband
http://youtu.be/mfTQIUWTMBo
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:30:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Balance Exercises, Runner's Exercise
Friday, March 7, 2014
Friday's Patient Problem of the Week: Measuring Range of Motion 2nd Metatarsal Phalangeal Joint
A patient presented post operative 2nd metatarsal phalangeal joint. The joint was very stiff and painful and she wanted advice on increasing the range of motion and minimizing the pain. As she walked, she felt that the bottom of the base of the toe would stay against the ground and cause pain. She felt that the toe would not move up as she walked through her foot. Even though the pain was on the bottom of the toe at the MPJ, she felt that the restriction to bending the joint was in the top of the joint.
2nd MPJ with healed surgical scars, but too much restriction at the top of the joint. Patient started on joint mobilization (like with Hallux Limitus) and cross frictional massage with a Blaine Scar Treatment Kit.
http://youtu.be/bdRuO0QERpI
Tin Foil is used to give the patient a reference point before and then after treatment. With the toe bent upwards as much as possible, the tin foil is massaged into the skin to represent that area. About a 6 inch strip of tin foil is used and folded on itself to get some rigidity.
Once the tin foil is removed for the skin, the patient can observe the angular relationship to the toe to the metatarsal (here before mob and massage). I can measure this as a 19 degree angle.
After mobilization and massage, the angular relationship is remeasured and the patient can see how their treatment is working. Doing this multiple times a day (2-3) for several months (3-6) can give a consistent improvement. Remember no pain in this treatment. Here I measured the same patient at 40 degrees post mobilization and gentle cross frictional massage of 2 minutes.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:16:00 PM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: 2nd Toe Dislocation, 2nd Toe Post Op Measurements
Thursday, March 6, 2014
Thursday's Orthotic Discussion of the Week: Functional Foot Orthotic Devices and Rearfoot Posts
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7SjkTwynaQM&feature=share&list=UU6k8-p7cA93aIpg0pnxm1Jw
http://www.drblakeshealingsole.com/2011/12/extrinsic-rearfoot-posting-adding.html
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:08:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Functional Foot Orthotics, Rearfoot Posts
Custom Shoemaker: Highly Recommended by a Very Discerning Patient of Mine
http://customshoemaker.com/home.html
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 12:56:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Custom Shoes
Wednesday, March 5, 2014
Wednesday's Article of the Week: Leg Length Differences Following Hip Replacements
If you are going in for a hip replacement, try to get the most information you can about how you can avoid or minimize a short leg. I have found only a few hip replacements to have no residual short legs, and so it is standard of care to have a short leg after. But, this means, lifts for the rest of your life in shoes or added to the bottom of shoes. I have many posts in my blog on the topic of treating short leg syndrome. This wonderful article below kindly discusses the problem. With supposedly 80% of the population having a short leg, it does mean that at least 80% of these surgeries will leave a short leg and need for a lift guy/gal like me to help post operatively. This is complicated by the fact that any surgery will temporarily weaken the joint involved. When it comes to the hip joint, when that area feels week, it throws off the gait, and makes it feel either long or short. Standing AP Pelvic Xrays post hip replacement can tell you what side of the body to place the lift, and it may not be the side you feel is short.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15190563
http://youtu.be/WRD62QspZtw
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:49:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Hip Replacement Problems, Hip Replacements and Limb Length Discrepancies, Short Leg Syndrome, Short Leg Syndrome and Hip Replacement
Tuesday, March 4, 2014
Tuesday's Patient Question of the Week: Advice for Plantar Fascia Injections
Hi i have plantar fasciitis in both feet and have been told i need injections but i am terrified of needles. I was wondering how much it actually hurts, and whether you can return to work the following day?
One Image to give yourself if you are going to get an injection is that the injection is going to make you more beautiful inside and out.
Dr Blake's comment:
Shots for Plantar Fasciitis are normally done from the side of the foot where the skin is softer. So, it would be more painful if injected from the bottom of the heel. I use Ethyl Chloride skin coolant to numb the skin before the actual injection, and that typically helps alot. You should ice for 20 minutes just after the shot and several more times that day. People go back to work after the shots, but no running for 2 weeks. You can inject long acting steroid into the bursae under the heel, but typically not into the plantar fascia itself. All these fine points are really up to the doctor, and most based on what he/she finds and is trying to accomplish. I have given heel shots that feel like a little prick to sharp pain, so have someone hold your hand, and definitely do not look. Bring music and earplugs so that you can relax before/during the shot. I pray you will not feel it at all. Look at the video and ask the nurse to see if some of these tips could be used. The Emla Occlusion is wonderful, but requires getting the medication and you coming one hour beforehand. Rich
http://youtu.be/t1qGGtZMFzI
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:34:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Injection Tips for Comfort, Plantar Fasciitis Injection
Monday, March 3, 2014
Monday's Image of the Week: When One Foot Being Longer can cause Chronic Symptoms
I am hoping one of these 3 photos clearly captures the longer left foot. These inserts were removed from the shoe to check why the left second toe was continually being irritated. He was sent home to check other shoes to see if this was a consistent pattern. This will help in my recommendations on shoe buying. With some situations, patients with this problem need to buy 2 pairs of different shoe sizes and chose one from one pair and the other from the second pair.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:49:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Longer Feet Problems, Shoe Insert Evaluation, Toe Length Differences
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Translate
Dr Blake's Book
Follow by Email
Blog Archive
► 2019 (36)
► April (3)
► March (12)
► February (8)
► January (13)
► 2018 (148)
► December (11)
► November (2)
► October (10)
► September (13)
► August (6)
► July (3)
► June (22)
► May (8)
► April (18)
► March (20)
► February (4)
► January (31)
► 2017 (159)
► December (10)
► November (8)
► October (17)
► September (7)
► August (17)
► July (22)
► June (17)
► May (19)
► April (13)
► March (5)
► February (10)
► January (14)
► 2016 (189)
► December (21)
► November (24)
► October (6)
► September (19)
► August (11)
► July (16)
► June (15)
► May (28)
► April (25)
► March (9)
► February (11)
► January (4)
► 2015 (153)
► December (5)
► November (14)
► October (22)
► September (5)
► August (11)
► July (28)
► June (7)
► May (4)
► April (11)
► March (5)
► February (15)
► January (26)
▼ 2014 (218)
► December (10)
► November (17)
► October (19)
► September (17)
► August (14)
► July (17)
► June (20)
► May (11)
► April (17)
▼ March (31)
Monday's Images of the Week: MRI views of normal a...
Sunday's Video of the Week on CRPS: Wonderful Lect...
Saturday's Exercise of the Week: Bunion Joint Stre...
Friday's Patient Problem of the Week:Supination an...
Dr Nancy Sajben, pain management extrordinaire!!
Thursday's Orthotic Discussion of the Week: Asymme...
Wednesday's Article of the Week: Gait Changes Post...
New Website for Heel Pain Sufferers: I hope it hel...
Calmare Therapy: A Rising Star for Nerve Pain (eve...
Tuesday's Patient Question of the Week: Posterior ...
Monday's Image of the Week: Stretching a Very Tigh...
Sunday's Video of the Week: Pain Management using ...
Drawing Salve: Help to pull out problems out of yo...
Monday's Image of the Week: Infected Ingrown Toena...
Sunday's Video of the Week: Personal Story of the ...
Golden Rule of Foot #1: Treat Every Patient with t...
Treatment can be affected by Looks
Thursday's Orthotic Discussion of the Week: Root B...
Wednesday's Article of the Week: Posterior Tibial ...
Tuesday's Question of the Week: Do you have video ...
Monday's Image of the Week: Abnormal Heel Wear as ...
Sunday's Video of the Week: Introducing the Footfu...
Saturday's Exercise of the Week: Single Leg Balanc...
Friday's Patient Problem of the Week: Measuring Ra...
Thursday's Orthotic Discussion of the Week: Functi...
Custom Shoemaker: Highly Recommended by a Very Dis...
Wednesday's Article of the Week: Leg Length Differ...
Tuesday's Patient Question of the Week: Advice for...
Monday's Image of the Week: When One Foot Being Lo...
Sunday's Video of the Week: Why Jones Fractures ha...
Saturday's Exercise of the Week: Eccentric Strengt...
► February (29)
► January (16)
► 2013 (289)
► December (9)
► November (24)
► October (31)
► September (19)
► August (31)
► July (30)
► June (41)
► May (22)
► April (13)
► March (16)
► February (28)
► January (25)
► 2012 (262)
► December (22)
► November (22)
► October (14)
► September (33)
► August (21)
► July (23)
► June (17)
► May (25)
► April (26)
► March (20)
► February (20)
► January (19)
► 2011 (244)
► December (24)
► November (17)
► October (24)
► September (11)
► August (29)
► July (18)
► June (20)
► May (21)
► April (22)
► March (20)
► February (22)
► January (16)
► 2010 (197)
► December (23)
► November (33)
► October (25)
► September (13)
► August (27)
► July (25)
► June (11)
► May (13)
► April (21)
► March (6)
Popular Posts
Why do toenails become more curved as we Age?
Toe Nail Fungus: 30 Minute Vinegar Soaking
Achilles StretchIng: One Stretch to Avoid (when you have achilles tendinitits or plantar fasciitis)
Supinators: Wedges for the Shoes (Email correspondence)
Sesamoid Fractures: Advice when not healing well
Foot Pain in 8 year old: Email Advice
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction/Tendinitis
For Podiatrists: Biomechanical Discussion Points #1
Cortisone Shots: The Thought Process Behind
Cartiva Joint Implant vs Arthrosurface: Present Thoughts
AvantLink
About Me
Dr Richard Blake
San Francisco, CA, United States
I have been a podiatrist for 34 years now and I am excited about sharing what I have learned on this blog. I love to exercise, especially basketball and hiking. I love to travel. I am very happily married to Patty, and have 2 wonderful sons Steve and Chris, a great daughter in law Clare, my new grandson Henry, and a grand dog Felix.
View my complete profile
AAPSM for Sports Podiatrists
AAPSM - American Academy of Podiatric Sports Medicine
Dr Blake's Typical Orthotic Response
Labels
2nd Metatarsal Fracture (1)
2nd Metatarsal Pain (5)
2nd Toe Dislocation (2)
2nd Toe Problems (2)
3rd Metatarsal Capsulitis (1)
4th Metatarsal Stress Fracture (1)
5th Metatarsal Fractures (4)
5th Toe Dislocation (1)
A.R.T. (1)
AAPSM (1)
AAPSM Lecture 4/11 (1)
AAPSM Referral Source for Good Podiatrists (2)
Abductor Hallucis Strengthening for Bunions (2)
Accessory Navicular (26)
Accommodative Padding (3)
Accupuncture (2)
Achilles (8)
Achilles Strengthening (8)
Achilles Stretching (7)
Achilles Stretching Principles (2)
Achilles Tendinitis (7)
Achilles Tendon Cortisone Shots (1)
Achilles Tendon Injuries (11)
Achilles Tendon Partial Tear MRI Image (2)
Achilles Tendon Ruptures (9)
Achilles Tendon Surgery (2)
Achilles Tendon Tightness (1)
Achilles Tightness Measurement (1)
Achilles Treatment with Soleus Roll (1)
Acute Ankle Sprain Treatment Advice (1)
Acute Injury Treatment (1)
Alcohol Injections for Nerve Pain (7)
Alpha Lipoic Acid (1)
Anatomy of the Foot (1)
Anatomy of the Foot and Ankle Video (1)
Ankle Brace Waterproof (1)
Ankle Braces (3)
Ankle Foot Orthotic (1)
Ankle Fracture (1)
Ankle Images Cartilage Damage (1)
Ankle Instability (5)
Ankle Pain (1)
Ankle Reconstruction Surgery (1)
Ankle Replacement Surgery (1)
Ankle Snapping (1)
Ankle Sprain (4)
Ankle Sprain Exercises (1)
Ankle Sprain Treatment Videos (1)
Ankle Sprains (14)
Ankle Strengthening Exercises (7)
Ankle Strengthening Video (1)
Ankle Xrays (1)
Anti-Inflammatory Medication (2)
Appointment with Dr Rich Blake (1)
Arch Heights (1)
Arch Strengthening Exercises (1)
Arch Supports Over the Counter (1)
Arch Taping (3)
Arm Swing (1)
Arthritis (when is it time to stop?) (1)
Ask The Podiatrist Segment (2)
Babinski (1)
Back and Foot Connection (1)
Back Exercises for Curves (1)
Balance (2)
Balance Exercises (5)
Balance Improvement with Orthoses (1)
Ball of Foot Pain (12)
Ballet (4)
Ballet Sesamoid Injury (1)
Ballet Shoes (1)
BAPS for Foot and Ankle Strengthening and Range of Motion (1)
Bar Method Intro (1)
Barefoot Running (6)
Basketball (3)
Big Toe Joint Fusion (4)
Big Toe Joint Injury (7)
Big Toe Joint Motion Evaluation (1)
Big Toe Joint MRI (1)
Big Toe Joint Pain (12)
Big Toe Pain (5)
Biker's Knee (1)
Biomechanics (11)
Biomechanics for the Podiatrist (4)
Biomechanics of Running (4)
Biomechanics of the Foot (1)
Biomechanics of Walking (2)
Bipartite Sesamoid (2)
Blake Inverted Device (5)
Blisters (6)
Bone Density Test (2)
Bone Scan for Diagnosis of Bone Pain (4)
Bone Spur Big Toe Joint (2)
Bone Spurs (1)
Bone Stimulators for Slow Fractures (3)
Breaking Into Orthotic Devices (1)
Bromstrom Procedure (1)
Buddy Taping (2)
Budin Splints (5)
Bunion and Treatment Recommendations (2)
Bunion Evaluation (4)
Bunion Exercise (1)
Bunion Night Splints (1)
Bunion Padding (1)
Bunion Self Help Tips (3)
Bunion Stages (1)
Bunion Surgery PreOp Considerations (1)
Bunion Surgery Problems (2)
Bunion Taping (1)
Bunion Treatment Tips (1)
Bunion Xray Evaluation (2)
Bunions (27)
Bunions and Shoe Recommendations (1)
Bursitis (6)
Bursitis Heel (1)
Bursitis on MRI imaging (2)
Buttock Pain (1)
Buzzing Sensation Feet (1)
Calcaneal Apophysitis (4)
Calcaneal Fracture (3)
Calcaneal Stress Fracture (2)
Calcaneo-Navicular Coalition (1)
Calcific Achilles Tendinitis (1)
Calf Atrophy (1)
Calf Pain (2)
Calf Strain (1)
Calf Tightness (1)
Calluses (4)
Calmare Pain Therapy (10)
Cane Decorative (1)
Canes (2)
Capsulitis of the 2nd and 3rd Metatarsal Phalangeal Joints (1)
Carbon Graphite Steel for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Cartilage Supplementation Injectable (1)
Cast Disease (1)
Cast Immobilization Rehab (3)
Casts/Splints/Braces (2)
Cerebral Palsy Patient (2)
Cervical Spine Myelopathy (1)
Chairs: Leading to Inflexibility (1)
Charcot (1)
Charcot Shoes (1)
Checklist Gait Evaluation (1)
Cheilectomy for Hallux Rigidus (5)
Cheilectomy Post Op (2)
Chi Running (1)
Children's Feet (2)
Children's Flatfeet (1)
Children's Health Article (1)
Children's Shoes (1)
Chronic Pain (6)
Chronic Pain treatment with Opioids (1)
Cipro Negative Impact Tendons (2)
Clonus (1)
Cluffy Wedge (1)
Coalition (1)
Coban Wraps (1)
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Cold Feet (3)
Cold Therapy (3)
Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (21)
Compression Pumps for Swelling (1)
Contrast Bathing (2)
Corns (1)
Correct Toes (2)
Cortisone (2)
Cortisone Injections Near Tendons Are Potentially Dangerous (2)
Cortisone Shot Adverse Effect (2)
cortisone shots (2)
Cramping at Night (1)
Creating a Pain Free Environment (1)
CRPS (27)
CRPS emergency room protocol (1)
CRPS patients needing shots (1)
CRPS Study 2016 seeking participants (1)
Crutches (1)
Crutches Weaning Off (1)
Cryotherapy (1)
Custom Orthotic Devices (3)
Custom Shoes (1)
Cycling (5)
Dance Injury (1)
Dancer's Knee (1)
Dancer's Pads (2)
Deep Relief for Soreness (1)
Deep Vein Thrombosis (3)
Diabetes (11)
Diabetes and Vegan Diet Help (1)
Diabetes Blood Test (1)
Diabetes Treatment (1)
Diabetic Neuropathic Pain (4)
Diabetic Socks (1)
Diet Health (1)
Dislocated Toe (1)
Distance Running (1)
Double Crush Syndrome (11)
Dr Deepak Chopra (pain specialist Rhode Island) (1)
Dr Lance Silverman's Blog (3)
Drawing Salve (1)
Dress Orthotic Devices (2)
Dry Cracked Heels (1)
Dry Skin (1)
Ehler Danlos (1)
En Pointe (Ballet) (2)
En Pointe Starting Point (1)
Epiphyseal Injury (1)
Equinus (1)
EvenUps (2)
Excessive Pronation (3)
Excessive Pronation Varus Wedge (1)
Excessive Supination (6)
Exercise Health Benefits (2)
Exercise Is Medicine Program (1)
Exercise Tips (1)
Exogen Bone Stimulator (5)
External Hip Rotator Strengthening (5)
Extracorpreal Shockwave Treatment (1)
Fall Injury with Advice (1)
Fall Prevention Program (2)
Falling and Ways to Prevent (2)
Family Support for Injury (1)
Fascia (1)
Fat Pad Atrophy (4)
Fat Pad Replacement (3)
Fettig Technique (2)
Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (6)
Finn Comfort Boots/Shoes/Sandals (1)
First Metatarsal Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
First Metatarsal Position Evaluation (3)
First Metatarsal Stability (1)
Flat Feet (5)
Flat Feet and Running (1)
Flatfeet (2)
Flatfeet in Children (1)
Flexor Hallucis Longus Eccentric Strengthening (1)
Floor Mirror for Diabetes (1)
Flying Advice when Swollen (1)
Foam Toe Caps (1)
Food Allergies (1)
Foods to Fight Pain (1)
Foot Anatomy (1)
Foot and Ankle Strengthening Video Playlist (1)
Foot and Knee Relationship (2)
Foot Drop (3)
Foot Exercises (2)
Foot Health Websites (1)
Foot Nerve Pain (8)
Foot Orthotic Devices (21)
Foot Poem (1)
Foot Smart Company (1)
Foot Strengthening Exercises (16)
Foot Stress Fractures (6)
Foot Surgeries and Strengthening (1)
Force Length Curve (1)
Forefoot Abnormalities (3)
Forefoot Pain (2)
Forefoot Valgus (1)
Forefoot Varus (2)
Fracture Foot Advise (1)
Fracture Healing with Bone Stimulation (1)
Fracture with Soft Tissue Involvement (1)
Fractures and Smoking Link (1)
Fractures Foot (1)
Fractures of Metatarsals (3)
Fractures of the Foot (1)
Friction Relief (1)
Front of Foot Pain (2)
Frozen Ankle (1)
Functional Foot Orthotics (3)
Functional Hallux Limitus (2)
Gabapentin (1)
Gait Abnormalities (1)
Gait Evaluation (22)
Gait Phases (1)
Ganglions (5)
Gangrene (1)
Gel for Cushioning (2)
General Biomechanical Principles (4)
General Foot Care Advice (1)
Golden Rules of Foot (5)
Good Pain vs Bad Pain (4)
Gout (6)
Gout: General Treatment Thoughts (1)
Graded Motor Imagery for Nerve Pain (1)
Hallux Inter-Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
Hallux Limitus Functional (1)
Hallux Limitus Initial Symptoms (1)
Hallux Limitus Xray Evaluation (1)
Hallux Limitus/ Rigidus (44)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (9)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Playlist (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Reader Comment Post (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Self Mobilization Technique (2)
Hallux Pain (1)
Hallux Rigidus (5)
Hallux Rigidus Splint (1)
Hallux Rigidus Surgical Options (3)
Hallux Rigidus/Post Op (5)
Hallux Sesamoiditis (1)
Hallux Valgus/Bunion (1)
Hallux Varus (2)
Hammertoe Surgical Rehabilitation (1)
Hammertoes (8)
Hammertoes: Cause and Treatment (1)
Hamstring Stretches (5)
Hamstring Stretches Floor Based (1)
Hamstrings (2)
Hannaford Orthotics (8)
Hapad OTC Arch Supports (3)
Hawaii (1)
HbA1c Blood Test for Diabetes (1)
Health Benefits Daily Exercise (1)
Health Tip (1)
Heat Therapy (1)
Heel Bursitis (3)
Heel Lifts (1)
Heel Pain (26)
Heel Pain Evaluation (1)
Heel Pain in a Runner (1)
Heel Pain in Children (1)
Heel Pain Treatment with Orthotics (1)
Heel Pain Video (1)
Heel Pain Website (1)
Heel Slippage (1)
Heel Slippage and Shoes (1)
Heel Spurs (1)
High Heels (8)
High Heels with Orthopedic Thoughtfulness (1)
Hiking (1)
Hiking Boot Lacing for Stability (1)
Hiking Boots (5)
Hiking Preparation (1)
Hip Arthritis in Runners (1)
Hip Hop Dance (1)
Hip Pain (4)
Hip Pain and Foot Mechanics (1)
Hip Replacement (4)
Hip Replacement Problems (1)
Hip Replacements and Limb Length Discrepancies (2)
History of Podiatric Biomechanics (1)
HOKA shoes (4)
How To Begin To Run (1)
Hypermobility of Joints/Feet (1)
Ice Pack (1)
Ice Therapy (1)
Ice Treatment (1)
Icing for Swelling Reduction (2)
Ilio-Tibial Band Syndrome (3)
Iliotibial Band Syndrome: General Thoughts (1)
Images of Plantar Fascial Tear (4)
Immobilization with EvenUp (1)
Impressions for Orthotic Devices (1)
Infected Ingrown Toenail (3)
Infections (2)
Inflammation Food Triggers (1)
Ingrown Toenails (4)
Injection Tips for Comfort (1)
Injections for Diagnosis (1)
Injury Rehabilitation (4)
Injury Rehabilitation Principles (12)
Insect Bite (1)
Insertional Achilles Tendinitis (3)
Instep Pain (1)
Internally Rotated Legs (2)
International Biomechanics (1)
Intoed Gait (1)
Intrinsic Foot Strengthening (2)
Inverted Orthotic Technique (33)
Iontophoresis (1)
Joint Dysfunction (1)
Joint Mobilization Treatment (1)
Jones Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (3)
Juvaderm (1)
Keep It Simple Stupid (1)
Ketamine sublingual (1)
Kinesiotape (2)
Kirby Skive (3)
KISS Principle (2)
Knee Arthritis in Runners (1)
Knee Mechanics (1)
Knee Pain (16)
Knee Pain and Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Knee Treatment with Varus Wedging (1)
Kneecap Injuries (1)
Knees (4)
Lacing for Stability (2)
Lacing Modifications (2)
Lamisil (2)
Laser for Fungus (1)
Lasers for Pain (1)
Lateral Ankle Pain (1)
Lateral Knee Compartment Syndrome (2)
Laterality Flash Cards (3)
Laterality Flash Cards for Nerve Pain (1)
Ledderhose Disease (2)
Leg Length Discrepancy (1)
Leg/Shin Pain (7)
Lifts (2)
Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Limb Dominance in Gait (1)
Limb Length Discrepancies (4)
Limping Discussion (1)
Lipitor (1)
Lisa Tonra's Fitness Tips (4)
Lisfranc's Joint Sprain (5)
Listen To Your Body/Never Push Through Pain (1)
Long Distance Running (1)
Longer Feet Problems (1)
Loss of Sensation (1)
Lotions/Creams (1)
Low Back Nerve Compression (1)
Low Back Pain (4)
Low Dose Naltrexone (2)
Low Dye Taping (1)
Lower Extremity Review (1)
Lumps on the Foot (1)
Lymphatic Drainage (1)
Lyrica Dosing for Neuropathic Pain (1)
Magical 80% (1)
Malignant Melanoma (2)
Marathon Matt (2)
Marathon Training for Beginners (2)
MarathonRookie.com (1)
Marathons (3)
Marc Evans Triathalon Coach (4)
Massage Balls for Foot Pain (2)
Maximalistic Shoes (3)
Mechanics of Overuse Injuries (1)
Medial Knee Arthritis (1)
Medial Knee Compartment Syndrome (3)
Medical History (3)
Medical History: Biomechanics (1)
Medications Causing Tendon Problems (1)
Medications for Nerve Pain (5)
Meditation for Healing (2)
Men's Shoes for Long and Narrow Feet (1)
Metatarsal Arcing Exercise (1)
Metatarsal Doming Exercise (2)
Metatarsal Fracture Oblique Fifth (1)
Metatarsal Fractures (4)
Metatarsal Pain (16)
Metatarsal Support (1)
Metatarsalgia (6)
Midfoot Arthritis/Arthralgias (1)
Midfoot Pain (1)
Mirror Box Therapy (1)
Morton's Neuromas (29)
Morton's Syndrome (1)
MRI Knee (1)
Multiple Sclerosis (1)
Music for Chronic Pain (1)
Music for Healing (2)
Mustard Seed Plaster (1)
Nail Matrixectomy (kill root cells) (1)
Nail Polish (1)
Navicular (4)
Navicular Drop Test for Pronation (1)
Navicular Fractures (2)
Negative Cast Bisection (1)
Negative Cast Pouring (1)
Nerve Hypersensitivity (2)
Nerve Injury (2)
Nerve Pain (40)
Nerve Pain after Injuries (1)
Nerve Pain and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Nerve Pain and Exercise (1)
Nerve Pain caused by Neck Problems (1)
Nerve Pain Diet (1)
Nerve Pain Forefoot (1)
Nerve Pain from Back (1)
Nerve Pain Topical Medication (2)
Nerve Pain Treatment with Exercise (1)
Nerve Symptoms in Foot (1)
Neural Flossing (7)
Neural Prolotherapy (1)
Neural Tension (2)
Neuro-Eze (3)
Neuromas (6)
Neurontin (2)
Neuropathic Pain (11)
Nexcare Tape (1)
NSAIDS (1)
Numbness in the Foot (2)
Ollier's Disease (1)
Onychomycosis (3)
Oral Cortisone (2)
Orthotic Adjustments (1)
Orthotic Casting (1)
Orthotic Design (4)
Orthotic Designs (7)
Orthotic Device Break In (Tips) (1)
Orthotic Device Shoe Fit (1)
Orthotic Functions (1)
Orthotic Manufacturing (1)
Orthotic Modification to Prevent Movement (1)
Orthotic Modifications (7)
Orthotic Prescription Writing (1)
Orthotic Research (1)
Orthotic Waterproofing Product (1)
Orthotics for Maximum Shock Absorption (1)
Orthotics for Sandals (1)
Os Peroneum (1)
Os Tibial Externum (1)
Os Trigonum (2)
Osgood Schlatters Prolotherapy (1)
Osgood Schlatters Syndrome (1)
Osteoporosis Exercises (1)
Overheating While Exercising (1)
Overuse Injury Generalizations (1)
PAD: Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Pain (3)
Pain Checklist (1)
Pain Flareups (1)
Pain Management (3)
Pain Medical History (1)
Pain Scale (2)
Pain Treatment with Laser (1)
Pain: 3 Sources (2)
Paraffin Wax Treatments (1)
Partial Sesamoidectomy (3)
Patella Injuries (1)
Pediatric Problems (1)
Pedicures (1)
Pelvic Pain (1)
Pelvic Tilts (2)
Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Peripheral Neuropathy (9)
Peripheral Neuropathy with Gluten Sensitivity (1)
Peripheral Venous Insufficiency (1)
Peroneal Subluxation/Dislocation Syndrome (3)
Peroneal Tendinitis (7)
Peroneal Tendon Injuries (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Post Op (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Rehabilitation (1)
Peroneal Tendon Strengthening with Therabands (1)
Pes Cavus (1)
Pes Cavus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Pes Planus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Phantom Limb Pain (1)
Phases of Rehabilitation (1)
Physical Fitness (1)
Physical Therapy Modalities (4)
Pigeon Toes (1)
Piriformis Syndrome (2)
Plantar Fascia Sock (1)
Plantar Fascial Night Splint (2)
Plantar Fascial Stretches (9)
Plantar Fascial Surgery/Post Op (1)
Plantar Fascial Tear (15)
Plantar Fasciitis (45)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment based on need (1)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment Principles (3)
Plantar Fasciitis Injection (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Massage Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Orthotics by Hannaford Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Prolotherapy (1)
plantar fasciitis taping (1)
Plantar Fasciitis: Basic Treatment Remedies (1)
Plantar Fibromatosis or Fibromas (3)
Plantar Heel Bursitis (2)
Plantar Plate Tear (11)
Plantar Wart (4)
Playlist for Morton's Neuroma (2)
Playlist for Plantar Fasciitis (1)
Playlist for Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Playlist Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (1)
Plyometrics (1)
Posemethod of Running (1)
Positive Casts (2)
Positive Casts before Balancing (1)
Post Exercise Cool Down (1)
Post Op Foot Concerns (1)
Posterior Ankle Impingement Syndrome (1)
Posterior Heel Pain (1)
Posterior Tibial Dysfunction (26)
posterior tibial strengthening exercises (3)
posterior tibial tendinitis (11)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction Brace (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Surgery (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Taping (1)
Power Lacing (4)
Pre-Dislocation Syndrome (1)
Prednisone Negative Impact Tendons (1)
Pregnancy (2)
PRICE (2)
Prolotherapy (1)
Pronation Control with Orthotic Modifications (2)
Pronation Evaluation (1)
Proprioceptive Exercises (1)
PRP injection (1)
Psoriasis (1)
Psoriatic Arthritis (3)
Psoriatic Arthritis and Ankle Swelling (1)
Push Off (1)
Quadreps Stretching (2)
Quadriceps Strengthening (1)
Radiculopathy (1)
Rearfoot Posts (3)
Recovering from Injury (1)
Referred Pain from Low Back (5)
Referred Pain to Foot (1)
Removable Boot from Ovation Medical (1)
Removable Boots (3)
Research on Treatment Success (1)
Retro-calcaneal bursitis (2)
Retrocalcaneal spur/exostosis (1)
Return to Activity (1)
Returning to Running after Injury (1)
Rheumatoid Arthritis (1)
RICE Therapy (1)
Rockport Shoes (1)
Roll A Bout (2)
Ronald Reagan's Humor (1)
Root Balance Technique (8)
Root Balancing Device (2)
RSD (5)
Runner's Exercise (1)
Runner's Knee (3)
Runner's Knee Exercise (1)
Runner's Loop (1)
Running (16)
Running 2012 (1)
Running Downhill (1)
Running Form (2)
Running Injuries (4)
Running Low Impact (1)
Running Shoe Evaluation for Wear (1)
Running Shoe Lecture (1)
Running Shoes (13)
Running Socks (1)
Running Technique (1)
Running vs Walking (1)
Running vs Walking Mechanics (1)
Running Warehouse (1)
Sacro-Iliac Joint Testing (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture Oct 2015 (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture on Gait Evaluation (1)
Samuel Merritt University Sports Medicine Lecture 1/13 (1)
Sandals for Cushioning (2)
Sandals for Summer (3)
Scar Breakdown (3)
Scar Reduction Techniques (2)
Sciatica (2)
Sciatica and Piriformis Syndrome (3)
Scoliosis (2)
Second Opinions (3)
Senior Health Issues (1)
Sensoria (1)
Sesamoid (10)
Sesamoid AVN (9)
Sesamoid Fracture (40)
Sesamoid Fracture General Rules (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Growing Child (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Initial Plan of Attack (1)
Sesamoid Fracture Post Surgery (12)
Sesamoid Fractures (53)
Sesamoid Injuries (58)
Sesamoid Missing in Child (1)
Sesamoid MRI views (1)
Sesamoid Partial Removal Post Surgery (2)
Sesamoid Post Op (6)
Sesamoid Sleeve for Protection (1)
Sesamoid Surgery Advice (1)
Sesamoid Surgery with Complications (4)
Sesamoiditis (8)
Sesamoidits (2)
Sever's Disease (3)
ShearBan (2)
Shin Splints (8)
Shin Splints 4 Basic Types (1)
Shin Splints Basic Treatment (1)
Shock Absorption (4)
Shoe Biomechanics (2)
Shoe Buying Tip (1)
Shoe Evaluation (4)
Shoe Evaluation for Flexion Properties (1)
Shoe Horn Replacement: Footfunnel (1)
Shoe Insert Evaluation (1)
Shoe Inserts (18)
Shoe Lace Modification (1)
Shoe Lacing for Wide Feet (1)
Shoe Lacing Techniques (5)
Shoe Lift Online Purchasing (1)
Shoe Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Shoe Modification (11)
Shoe Purchasing (1)
Shoe Size (2)
Shoe Size Measurement (1)
Shoe Stability Tests (2)
Shoe Wear Patterns (3)
Shoe Wedging (1)
Shoe Wedging for Supinators (1)
Shoes (10)
Shoes for Fashion (1)
Shoes for Infants (1)
Shoes for Men Long and Narrow (1)
Shoes online (1)
Short Leg Lifts Shoe Website (1)
Short Leg Syndrome (47)
Short Leg Syndrome and Hip Replacement (2)
Shots (1)
SI Joint (1)
Single Leg Balancing Exercise (1)
Sinus Tarsi Syndrome (1)
Skin Cancer (3)
Skin Discoloration (1)
Skin/Nail Conditions (2)
Sleeping Protection for Foot Pain (1)
Smart Socks (1)
Smart Sox (1)
Soccer Cleats (2)
Socks (3)
Socks for Cold Feet (1)
Socks with High Tech (1)
Soft Tissue Injury Treatment (1)
Sole OTC Arch Supports (2)
Solemates for Heels (1)
Soles4Souls (1)
Somatic Experiencing (1)
Song of Podiatry (2)
Sore Pressure Spots Bottom Feet (3)
Special Interest Story (1)
Spica Taping (5)
Spica Taping for big toe joint problems testimony (1)
Sports Medicine (1)
Sports Medicine Class 2012 (1)
Sprain Big Toe Joint (1)
Squeaking Orthotics (2)
Stationary Bike (2)
Steida's Process Fracture (1)
Stinky Feet (1)
Stonger Bones (1)
Straight Leg Raise Test (1)
Strengthening 6 Basic Types (1)
Strengthening Achilles Eccentrically (2)
Strengthening for Ankles (1)
Strengthening for Feet (2)
Strengthening for Hips (1)
strengthening for posterior tibial tendon (1)
Strengthening General Principles (4)
Stress Fractures (4)
Stress Fractures of the Leg (1)
Stretching (4)
Stretching 13 General Principles (1)
Stretching Achilles Principles (1)
Stretching for Achilles (1)
Stretching for Hamstrings (4)
Stretching for Ilio-Tibial Band (2)
Stretching for Plantar Fasciitis (2)
Stretching for Quads (2)
Stretching General Principles (1)
Stretching Principles (1)
Stretching Technique (1)
Stretching the Achilles Properly (1)
Stretching with Heat and Ice (2)
Subtalar Joint Arthritis (1)
Sunscreen for Feet (1)
Supination (15)
Supination causing Ankle Problems (2)
Supination Exercises for better Stability (1)
Supination Orthotic Modifications (2)
Support Hose for Leg Swelling (5)
Support Hose Slippage (1)
Support the Foot Taping (1)
Supportthefoot.com (1)
Sural Neuritis (maybe) (1)
Surgery of the Future?? (1)
Swelling After Ankle Sprains (2)
Swelling and Nerve Symptoms (1)
Swelling Self Help Tips (1)
Swelling Treatment (7)
Swimming Rehabilitation Ankle Brace (1)
Swollen Big Toe Joint (8)
Tailor's Bunions (2)
Talar Fractures (1)
Talus Injury (2)
Taping for 2nd Metatarsal/Toe Pain (4)
Taping for 5th Metatarsal Base Fractures (1)
Taping for Achilles (2)
Taping for Ankle Sprains/Pain (1)
Taping for Arch Pain (4)
Taping for Big Toe Joint Pain (3)
Taping for Bunions (1)
Taping for Plantar Fasciitis (4)
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping for Toe Injuries (1)
Taping Modifications (1)
Taping of Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping of the Arch (2)
Taping the Arch (1)
Taping/Wraps (2)
Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome (13)
Team In Training (1)
Tendinitis (3)
tendinitis of the posterior tibial tendon (1)
Tendinitis Treatment with BRISS (3)
Tennis Shoes (2)
Theraband Strengthening Equipment (1)
Tibial Stress Fractures (3)
Tingling in the Foot (1)
Tip of the Iceberg Concept (1)
Tips for Breaking in Orthotic Devices (1)
Toastie Toes (1)
Toe Dislocation with Closed Reduction (1)
Toe Hyper Flexion Injury (1)
Toe Injury (1)
Toe Length Differences (1)
Toe Length Issues (1)
Toe Problems (4)
Toe Separators for Bunions (2)
Toenail Fungus (17)
Toenail Fungus Cold Plasma Treatment (1)
Toenail Fungus Topical Medication (1)
Toenail Fungus Urea Treatment (1)
Toenail Pain (1)
Toenails (1)
Top 100 Biomechanical Guidelines (45)
Treadmill Workouts (2)
Triathalons (3)
Tumeric (2)
Tumor of the Bone (1)
Turf Toe (7)
Twitter Updates (2)
Two Different Size Feet (1)
Ulcerations (3)
Ultrasound Examination Foot and Ankle (1)
Underpronation (aka over supination) (1)
Valgus Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Varicose Veins (1)
Varus Wedging (3)
Vegan Diet (1)
Vitamin B Deficiency (1)
Vitamin D Deficiency (2)
Vitamin D/Calcium (6)
Walk Run Program (2)
Walking Poles for Hiking (1)
Walking Schedule Website (1)
Walking Shoes (1)
Walking Stairs (1)
Walking vs Running Mechanics (1)
Walnuts (1)
Wart (1)
Wart Treatment with Apple Cider Vinegar (1)
Water Aerobic Shoes (1)
Water Gym (1)
Water Workouts (1)
Waterproofing (1)
Weaning from a Cast (2)
Websites for Foot Health (1)
Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Weight Loss Workouts (1)
Weighted Jackets for MS patients (1)
When To Ice? (1)
Wide Feet Shoes (3)
Women's Shoes (1)
Wounds (1)
X-rays for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Xrays for Short Leg (3)
Xrays for Tibial Stress Fractures (1)
Xrays/MRIs/Tests (7)
Yoga (2)
Yoga Introduction 13 Poses (1)
Yoga Toes (1)
Zappos Shoes Online (1)
Sitemap
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.