Fever Guide: Causes, Symptoms and Treatment Options
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Harvard Health Topics A-Z
Fever
Print Share
Fever
Medically reviewed by Drugs.com. Last updated on Jun 11, 2018.
Health Guide
Disease Reference
Care Notes
Medication List
Q & A
A fever is an increase in body temperature above the normal range. However, body temperature varies between people, with different levels of activity and at different times of the day. Medical textbooks differ in their definition of the highest normal body temperature. Fever generally can be defined as an early morning temperature higher than 99 degrees Fahrenheit or a temperature higher than 100 degrees Fahrenheit at any time of the day.
A part of the brain called the hypothalamus acts as the body's thermostat. When all is well in the body, the hypothalamus is set at the normal body temperature. Fever develops when the hypothalamus is set to a higher-than-normal temperature. This resetting of the hypothalamus is usually caused by small molecules called pyrogens in the blood. Pyrogens can come from outside the body (external) or can be produced inside the body (internal). External pyrogens include toxins (poisons) produced by infectious viruses or bacteria. Internal pyrogens include abnormal chemicals that are produced by tumors and proteins that are released during the normal response of the immune system.
Causes of fever include:
Hundreds of types of viruses, bacteria and parasites that cause many illnesses, such as upper respiratory infections, pneumonia, diarrhea and urinary tract infections
Chronic (long-term) conditions associated with inflammation, such as rheumatoid arthritis
Severe trauma, including surgery
Reactions to medications or immunizations
Certain types of cancers
Symptoms
Common symptoms associated with fever include sweating, shivering, headaches, muscle aches, poor appetite, rash, restlessness and general body weakness. High fever can lead to symptoms of mental dysfunction, such as confusion, excessive sleepiness, irritability and convulsions (seizures).
Convulsions triggered by fever (febrile seizures) are common among children younger than 5 years. These seizures usually occur at the beginning of an illness when temperature rises rapidly. In infants and toddlers, febrile seizures typically cause generalized shaking and muscle rigidity. They usually last one to three minutes and are often followed by a long period of sleep.
Specific symptoms associated with a fever often can provide clues to help identify the fever's cause. For example, a fever accompanied by vomiting and diarrhea may signal gastroenteritis, and a fever associated with coughing, shortness of breath and grayish-yellow phlegm may indicate pneumonia.
Diagnosis
In pinpointing a fever's cause, your doctor may ask about:
Cold or flu symptoms
Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea
Burning or pain with urination
Pain or discomfort in any part of your body
Contact with sick people at home, work or school
The types of food you've eaten recently
Any recent exposure you have had to animals, including pets
Whether you have any implanted prosthetic or mechanical device, such as an artificial joint or mechanical heart valve
Any recent surgery, cuts or large areas of broken skin
Chronic inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis
The types of medications you take
Recent immunizations
Recent travel, especially to a foreign country
Your doctor will take your temperature orally, in the ear canal or rectally. Depending on the suspected site of infection, your doctor’s exam will focus on certain parts of your body:
Skin — For signs of rash or infection
Lymph nodes — For swelling (a sign of nearby infection)
Eyes — For redness or jaundice (yellowing of the whites of the eyes)
Mouth and throat — For signs of pharyngitis (throat infection) or a tooth abscess
Cardiovascular system — For heart failure or infections involving the heart
Chest — For lung infection
Abdomen — For infections of the gallbladder, intestine or appendix
Joints — For arthritis
Genitals — For sexually transmitted diseases
Nervous system — For encephalitis (brain infection) or meningitis (inflammation or infection involving the membranes covering the brain)
Depending on your symptoms and the results of your physical examination, you may need diagnostic tests, including laboratory examination of body fluids (blood, urine, stool or spinal fluid); special X-rays or scans; or a biopsy (taking a sample of body tissue for laboratory examination).
Expected Duration
Depending on its cause, a fever may disappear in a day or last for weeks.
Prevention
You can reduce your risk of getting illnesses that cause fever by adopting these healthy habits:
Practice good hygiene by washing your hands frequently with soap and warm water, especially after using the toilet and before eating.
Limit exposure to crowds and to people with known infections.
Cook and store foods properly to avoid food poisoning.
Keep a record of your current immunizations. Review this record with your doctor every year to confirm that your immunizations are up-to-date.
Contact your doctor before traveling to a foreign country to receive any recommended immunizations before your trip.
Treatment
Doctors often advise adults with mild to moderate fevers below 102 degrees Fahrenheit to:
Drink plenty of water and fruit juices to prevent dehydration (abnormally low levels of body water). Fluids help to cool your body and they replenish vital salts and minerals (electrolytes), which may be lost during vomiting or diarrhea.
Eat light foods that are easy to digest.
Get plenty of rest.
Take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin or others), acetaminophen (Tylenol) or aspirin according to label directions. Fever may help to fight infection, so there is a controversy about whether fever should be treated routinely or only if it is particularly severe.
Aspirin should not be given to infants and children younger than age 16 because of the risk of Reye's syndrome, a life-threatening neurological disorder that can develop when children take aspirin during a viral illness. In children, reduce fever by using acetaminophen or ibuprofen, together with lukewarm sponge baths. If your child has a febrile seizure, call your doctor immediately.
If your doctor suspects that a bacterial infection is causing your fever, he or she will prescribe antibiotics.
When To Call a Professional
Adults and children should seek immediate medical attention for any fever of 104 degrees Fahrenheit or higher or for any fever accompanied by one or more of the following:
Convulsion
Loss of consciousness
Confusion
Stiff neck
Difficulty breathing
Severe pain anywhere in the body (especially the head, chest or abdomen)
Swelling or inflammation of any part of the body
Vaginal discharge that is discolored or foul-smelling
Urinary tract symptoms (pain on urination, foul-smelling urine)
Call a doctor immediately if an infant younger than 3 months develops any fever.
For a lower fever of unexplained origin, call your doctor if it does not improve after two to three days. Call sooner if you develop additional symptoms.
Prognosis
For most fevers caused by common infections, the person either recovers on their own or the doctor is able to identify and treat the cause.
Sustained body temperatures of 106 degrees Fahrenheit or above can cause brain damage.
Print this page
Learn more about Fever
Associated drugs
Fever
Mayo Clinic Reference
Fever
External resources
American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP )11400 Tomahawk Creek Parkway Leawood, KS 66211-2672 Phone: 913-906-6000Toll-Free: 1-800-274-2237 http://www.familydoctor.org/
Further information
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Medical Disclaimer
More About Fever
Medication Guide1 related article
Mayo Clinic1 related article
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Latest Drug Information Updates
Evenity Evenity (romosozumab) is an anti-sclerostin monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis in...
Dovato Dovato (dolutegravir and lamivudine) is a once-daily, single-tablet, two-drug regimen of the approved drugs...
Duaklir Pressair Duaklir Pressair (aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate) is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)...
Mavenclad Mavenclad (cladribine) is a purine antimetabolite indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple...
Mayzent Mayzent (siponimod) is a sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator for the treatment of secondary...
Sunosi Sunosi (solriamfetol) is a selective dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (DNRI) for the treatment...
More updates
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide