Vitamin D: 2p supplements could lower the risk of asthma attacks by THIS much ~ protein-barscheap.info
Protein Barscheap
Protein
Barscheap
Home » Daily-Express-Health » Vitamin D: 2p supplements could lower the risk of asthma attacks by THIS much
Vitamin D: 2p supplements could lower the risk of asthma attacks by THIS much
By Unknown December 12, 2017
Vitamin D supplements could help to protect against life-threatening attacks in asthma patients, scientists have claimed.
The vitamin may boost the immune system of asthma patients, to help ward off harmful respiratory viruses, they said.
The viruses usually lead to inflamed airways, which instigates the deadly attacks.
Almost 400,000 people a year die from asthma attacks, while two in three deaths are preventable in the UK, according to Asthma UK.
“These results add to the ever growing body of evidence that vitamin D can support immune function as well as bone health,” said lead author of the research, Professor Adrian Martineau from Queen Mary University of London.
“On average, three people in the UK die from asthma attacks every day.
“Vitamin D is safe to take and relatively inexpensive so supplementation represents a potentially cost-effective strategy to reduce this problem.”
Previous research has found vitamin D boosts the immune system, and could also help to prevent cardiovascular disease and multiple sclerosis.
The researchers analysed 483 previous studies linking vitamin D to asthma attacks.
There was a 30 per cent reduction in the number of asthma attacks needing steroid medication after the patients took vitamin D supplements.
The number of patients experiencing at least one asthma attack which required hospital treatment halved, from six per cent to three per cent, the scientists revealed.
More research is needed to confirm the findings, the researchers cautioned.
The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) said the findings would have an impact on every asthma patient across the world.
“The results of this NIHR-funded study brings together evidence from several other studies from over the world and is an important contribution to reducing uncertainties on whether Vitamin D is helpful for asthma – a common condition that impacts on many thousands of people worldwide,” said its Health Technology Assessment Programme Director, Professor Hywel Williams.
About 5.4 million people in the UK are currently being treated for asthma in the UK.
Last year, 1,410 people died from asthma in the UK.
from http://www.protein-barscheap.info
via http://www.protein-barscheap.info/search/label/Daily-Express-Health
← Newer Post Older Post → Home
Total Pageviews
Popular
Tags
Blog Archives
How to live longer: Doing THIS will add YEARS to your life
Every year spent studying, beyond school, adds almost an extra year to your lifespan, according to researchers form the University of Edin...
Faculty Forum on Strategic Planning #1
Following are notes from a forum held on Sept 8 for faculty members of the Strategic Planning Committee to meet with their faculty constit...
IBS diet news: Food might NOT be main cause of symptoms
IBS affects one in five people in the UK at some point in their lives, and can cause a number of debilitating symptoms including stomach p...
Type 2 diabetes: Supplements containing this enzyme could help manage condition's symptoms
Supplementation with the co-enzyme Ubiquinone Q10 can “significantly improve” blood sugar control in Type 2 diabetics, as well as helping ...
‘Phenomenal’ new treatment could help to save thousands at risk of heart disease
The tablet, when taken with aspirin, slashes the death rate for people with known heart conditions by 15 per cent. And it stops all attack...
Cough - 10p a day supplements could relieve dry and chesty symptoms
Coughs usually go away by themselves within three weeks, according to the NHS. The best way to get rid of a cough is to get plenty of res...
The magic vitamin that'll give you back your glow
Diabetes warning: Sufferers TWICE as likely to have a deadly stroke
The number of type 2 diabetes sufferers experiencing a serious - and potentially deadly - heart problem is on the rise, experts have warne...
Song couple presents home appliances to "Descendants of the Sun" co-star
Kim Min-seok revealed his " Descendants of the Sun " co-stars Song Joong-ki and Song Hye-kyo bought him a refrigerator and washin...
Things to know The University of North Dakota
Program and Support Service Prioritization. The members of the two task forces for the Program and Support Service Prioritization Initiativ...
Labels
countryliving.com Daily-Express-Health Protein Science Trends und.edu vuongbao
Blog Archive
► 2018 (604)
► March (13)
► February (258)
► January (333)
▼ 2017 (1117)
▼ December (271)
Anti-ageing for 2018: The FIVE trends you will be ...
Gym workout diet: Build muscle by eating THESE kin...
New year diet? Forget weight loss, THIS is the unh...
What is Dry January? THREE ways to help you stop d...
New Year’s Eve WARNING: Watching fireworks in the ...
New flu superjab breakthrough to replace vaccine t...
Keeping it simple is key to dieting in the new yea...
Fancy a low-cal drink? These are the alcoholic tip...
Why do Dry January? Weight loss and better sleep t...
Diabetes breakthrough? New skin patch could end mi...
Live longer: Secret to good health unveiled and it...
Black poo? THREE reasons for strange bowel symptom...
Weight loss diet: Five EASY ways to start shedding...
New year weight loss diet: Eating carbs is good fo...
What is the link between bacon and cancer? New typ...
Hair loss treatment: Three everyday habits that co...
Sore throat remedies: The scary reason you should ...
New year diet: Make these 10 simple changes to eat...
These are the three things you MUST do before book...
Constipation warning: Why you shouldn’t ignore blo...
How to sleep: Needing eight hours is a ‘myth’ - cl...
Prostate enlargement: One in three men over 50 at ...
Dementia symptoms: Exercising THIS many times a we...
New year diet plan: Would YOU try these NINE healt...
Gym membership warning: Exercising too much could ...
Best superfood to detox: Drink five cups of THIS t...
Flu symptoms between Christmas and New Year? THIS ...
How to get rid of a cold: Flu symptoms stopped by ...
Chesty cough? Dry cough? Why you should NEVER igno...
Boost your libido by sleeping more: Six signs of s...
Melanoma skin cancer: Early symptom spotted on Pie...
Tramadol: The powerful painkiller that is 'legal b...
Arthritis symptoms: THIS festive treat could relie...
Type 2 diabetes symptoms: Is it possible to REVERS...
Dementia: How BLUEBERRY vinegar ‘could beat' the d...
Healthy lifestyle and exercise key to staving off ...
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome is a PHYSICAL condition n...
My jaw clicks when I use it and it's painful, what...
Kick THESE unhealthy habits to improve your sleep ...
Reverend Richard Coles reveals his struggles with ...
Best supplements to detox: Take these four nutrien...
Christmas Day warning: Eat THIS for breakfast to C...
High blood pressure warning: THIS causes your leve...
Heartburn and acid reflux symptoms: How to get RID...
What is gastroenteritis? Signs and symptoms includ...
Hepatitis A outbreak: Symptoms of viral infection ...
Hero dog: How ‘diagnosis’ Labrador has changed my ...
Festive drinks WARNING: Prosecco could have this p...
Are YOU struggling to concentrate? Eating these ch...
'Being sectioned, I felt shame' Frank Bruno speaks...
Eat, drink and be merry... anti-fat jab is on its ...
Drinking alcohol every day for a month: The FOUR d...
Acid reflux: Foods to AVOID this Christmas to prev...
Not a feast: THIS is what you'd eat tomorrow if yo...
Improve energy levels and sleep better: Seven food...
Do you suffer from earache? Signs and symptoms of ...
Contraceptive gel for men could soon replace condo...
Dementia WARNING - Signs to look out in relatives ...
Gym workout warning: Cancel your membership and ex...
How HEALTHY is Santa? GP gives THIS damning verdic...
Norovirus OUTBREAK: Hospitals in LOCKDOWN amid vom...
Parkinson’s disease breakthrough: Exercise could S...
Suffering with heartburn? Do NOT eat this, or risk...
Flu WARNING: Eating these foods could protect YOU ...
Can eating chocolate improve your eyesight? Optici...
Constipation cure: Five cheap foods from 13p to ad...
Australian flu warning: NHS fears materialise afte...
Is shingles contagious? Symptoms risk rises with a...
Best supplements for bloating: THIS is a WASTE of ...
Fish health benefits: Eating it once a week can bo...
High-tech watch will tell the elderly when it is s...
Lung damage by smoking could be repaired by eating...
Acid reflux symptoms: Why your Christmas heartburn...
Arthritis symptoms: A handful of cherries a day co...
Diabetes symptoms: ED and vaginal dryness a shock ...
High blood pressure warning: Finding THIS in your ...
Heart disease warning: THIS happening to you durin...
Best supplements for dementia: Cannabis CBD oil ma...
Urologist warns - do NOT urinate before intercours...
Divorced heart disease patients at higher risk of ...
These foods could give you a flakey scalp this win...
Eating salad could help stave off dementia, new re...
Dementia symptoms: Eating THIS for lunch everyday ...
Diabetes news: James Norton has revealed an unusua...
What is diabetes? Signs and symptoms of type 1 and...
Heart disease warning: Single people more likely t...
What is blood pressure? This is how to tell if you...
Drinking just two soft drinks a day can raise kids...
Diabetes symptoms: Top tips for reducing risk incl...
Matt's Meet Up: Leicester men set up mental health...
Mediterranean diet in a pill could help beat heart...
Bad teeth WARNING: Tooth loss and gum disease incr...
Mental health: Two men set up an awareness group a...
Dementia symptoms: Try these NINE ways to ward off...
Aussie flu WARNING: Parents are urged to get child...
Pain in neck: Try THESE three ways to CURE chronic...
Arthritis symptoms: £1 a day supplements could red...
Christmas warning: NHS fear blood stocks for THESE...
Mental health: Five ways that Christmas traditions...
Neck pain? Tuina massage could relieve stiff joint...
► November (265)
► October (267)
► September (266)
► August (48)
Wego Casa Blanca
Bleaching Skin
News C10MT
Online Dapoxetine Buy
TamGa ADS
Popular Posts Last 30 days
How to live longer: Doing THIS will add YEARS to your life
Every year spent studying, beyond school, adds almost an extra year to your lifespan, according to researchers form the University of Edin...
Faculty Forum on Strategic Planning #1
Following are notes from a forum held on Sept 8 for faculty members of the Strategic Planning Committee to meet with their faculty constit...
Type 2 diabetes: Supplements containing this enzyme could help manage condition's symptoms
Supplementation with the co-enzyme Ubiquinone Q10 can “significantly improve” blood sugar control in Type 2 diabetics, as well as helping ...
IBS diet news: Food might NOT be main cause of symptoms
IBS affects one in five people in the UK at some point in their lives, and can cause a number of debilitating symptoms including stomach p...
Cough - 10p a day supplements could relieve dry and chesty symptoms
Coughs usually go away by themselves within three weeks, according to the NHS. The best way to get rid of a cough is to get plenty of res...
The magic vitamin that'll give you back your glow
Song couple presents home appliances to "Descendants of the Sun" co-star
Kim Min-seok revealed his " Descendants of the Sun " co-stars Song Joong-ki and Song Hye-kyo bought him a refrigerator and washin...
Eye test: Third of adults ADMIT being overdue for an examination
More than half (59 per cent) do not know what the pupil does and 42 per cent have no idea of the purpose of the retina. The research, by ...
Piles: This common cold symptom increases your chances of haemorrhoids - are you at risk?
Piles, also known as haemorrhoids, are swollen blood vessels that are found inside or around the anus, according to the NHS. Symptoms of ...
Daily dose of aspirin ‘beats diabetes and heart disease’
vuongbao
countryliving.com
Und.edu
Daily Express Health
Protein
Science
Copyright © protein-barscheap.info | Powered by Nguyen Thanh Tam Google Search Box