Food Stuck in Throat When You Can Still Breathe
Newsletter
What to Do If You Get Food Stuck in Your Throat
Medically reviewed by Suzanne Falck, MD on February 1, 2018 — Written by Corinne O'Keefe Osborn
Seek emergency medical care
Home remedies
Medical treatment
Takeaway and prevention
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Overview
Swallowing is a complex process. When you eat, around 50 pairs of muscles and many nerves work together to move food from your mouth to your stomach. It’s not uncommon for something to go wrong during this process, making it feel like you have food stuck in your throat.
When you take a bite of solid food, a three-step process begins:
You prepare the food to be swallowed by chewing it. This process allows the food to mix with saliva, and transforms it into a moistened puree.
Your swallowing reflex is triggered as your tongue pushes the food to the back of your throat. During this phase, your windpipe closes tightly and your breathing stops. This prevents food from going down the wrong pipe.
The food enters your esophagus and travels down into your stomach.
When it feels like something didn’t go all the way down, it’s usually because it’s stuck in your esophagus. Your breathing isn’t affected when this happens because the food has already cleared your windpipe. However, you may cough or gag.
Symptoms of food stuck in your esophagus develop immediately after it happens. It’s not uncommon to have severe chest pain. You may also experience excessive drooling. But there are often ways to resolve the issue at home.
When to seek emergency medical care
Thousands of people die from choking every year. It’s particularly common among young children and adults over the age of 74. Choking happens when food or a foreign object gets stuck in your throat or windpipe, blocking the flow of air.
When someone is choking, they:
are unable to talk
have difficulty breathing or noisy breathing
make squeaky sounds when trying to breathe
cough, forcefully or weakly
become flushed, then turn pale or bluish
lose consciousness
Choking is a life-threatening emergency. If you or a loved one experiences these symptoms, call your local emergency services and perform rescue techniques such as the Heimlich maneuver or chest compressions immediately.
Ways to remove food stuck in throat
The following techniques may assist you in removing food that’s become lodged in your esophagus.
The ‘Coca-Cola’ trick
that drinking a can of Coke, or another carbonated beverage, can help dislodge food stuck in the esophagus. Doctors and emergency workers often utilize this simple technique to break up food.
Although they don’t know exactly how it works, that the carbon dioxide gas in soda helps disintegrate the food. It’s also thought that some of the soda gets into the stomach, which then releases gas. The pressure of the gas can dislodge the stuck food.
Try a few cans of diet soda or seltzer water at home immediately after noticing the stuck food.
Purchase seltzer water online.
Simethicone
Over-the-counter medications designed to treat gas pain may help dislodge food stuck in the esophagus. In the same way as carbonated sodas, medications containing simethicone (Gas-X) make it easier for your stomach to produce gas. This gas increases the pressure in your esophagus and can push the food loose.
Follow the standard dosing recommendation on the package.
Shop for simethicone medications.
Water
A few big sips of water may help you wash down the food stuck in your esophagus. Normally, your saliva provides enough lubrication to help food slide easily down the esophagus. If your food wasn’t chewed properly, it may be too dry. Repeated sips of water may moisten the stuck food, making it go down more easily.
A moist piece of food
It may feel uncomfortable to swallow something else, but sometimes one food can help push another down. Try dipping a piece of bread in some water or milk to soften it, and take a few small bites.
Another effective option may be to take a bite of banana, a naturally soft food.
Alka-Seltzer or baking soda
An effervescent drug like Alka-Seltzer may help break down food that’s stuck in the throat. Effervescent drugs dissolve when mixed with a liquid. Similar to soda, the bubbles they produce when dissolving may help disintegrate the food and produce pressure that can dislodge it.
Find Alka-Seltzer online.
If you don’t have Alka-Seltzer, you can try mixing some baking soda, or sodium bicarbonate, with water. This may help dislodge food in the same way.
Shop for sodium bicarbonate.
Butter
Sometimes the esophagus needs an extra bit of lubrication. As unpleasant as it may sound, it may help to eat a tablespoon of butter. This can sometimes help moisten the lining of the esophagus and make it easier for the stuck food to move down into your stomach.
Wait it out
Food that gets stuck in the throat usually passes on its own, given some time. Give your body a chance to do its thing.
Getting help from your doctor
If you’re unable to swallow your saliva and are experiencing distress, go to your local emergency room as soon as possible. If you’re not in distress but the food is still stuck, you can have an endoscopic procedure to remove the food . After that, there’s risk of damage to the lining of your esophagus. Some doctors recommend coming in after to reduce the likelihood of damage and make the extraction easier.
During an endoscopic procedure, your doctor can identify any possible underlying causes. If you frequently get food stuck in your throat, you should consult a doctor. One of the most common problems is a narrowing of the esophagus caused by the buildup of scar tissue, or esophageal stricture. A specialist can treat esophageal stricture by placing a stent or performing a dilation procedure.
The takeaway
Getting food stuck in your throat can be frustrating and painful. If this occurs frequently, talk to your doctor about possible underlying causes. Otherwise, you may be able to avoid a trip to the emergency room by treating yourself at home with carbonated beverages or other remedies.
In the future, be particularly careful when eating meat, as it’s the most common culprit. Avoid eating too quickly, take small bites, and avoid eating while intoxicated.
Medically reviewed by Suzanne Falck, MD on February 1, 2018 — Written by Corinne O'Keefe Osborn
related stories
Benign Esophageal Stricture
Pill Stuck in Your Throat? Here’s What You Do
Difficulty Swallowing (Dysphagia) Due to Acid Reflux
Emergency Acid Reflux Symptoms
Swallowed (or Inhaled) Foreign Object
READ THIS NEXT
Benign Esophageal Stricture
Medically reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, College of Medicine
Benign esophageal stricture is a narrowing or tightening of the esophagus. Find information on benign esophageal stricture causes, symptoms, and…
READ MORE
Pill Stuck in Your Throat? Here’s What You Do
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
Getting a pill stuck in your throat can be a scary experience, but it's usually not an emergency. Pills often get stuck in your throat when there's…
READ MORE
Difficulty Swallowing (Dysphagia) Due to Acid Reflux
Medically reviewed by Sara Minnis MS, CCC-SLP
Dysphagia is when you have difficulty swallowing. You may experience this if you have GERD. Dysphagia may occur occasionally or on a more regular…
READ MORE
Emergency Acid Reflux Symptoms
Medically reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, College of Medicine
Learn about acid reflux and when you should see a doctor about acid reflux symptoms.
READ MORE
Swallowed (or Inhaled) Foreign Object
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
Anyone can swallow a foreign object, but infants and toddlers are at a higher risk. Read on to learn how it's treated.
READ MORE
What to Do When a Fish Bone Gets Stuck in Your Throat
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Getting a fish bone stuck in your throat can be scary, but it's fairly common and isn't usually dangerous. We'll share some tips for getting a fish…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 142819 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582