A-Z Acne Remedies That Work Overnight!
Adult-Acne.net
What is Acne
Adult Acne
Symptoms
Treatment
Products
A-Z Acne Remedies That Work Overnight!
By Jacob Olesen
Looking for overnight remedies for acne and acne scars? Then look no further than your kitchen! Many home remedies are the best pimple removers and you need not even spend a whole lot of money on them. Today, we are enlisting A-Z home treatment for pimples which can help you get rid of zits overnight.
1. A for Apple cider vinegar
Only use organic, unfiltered apple cider vinegar (ACV) for this treatment. You need to use this best pimple remover remedy internally as well as topically to zap zits overnight.
How to use: Drink warm water and organic, raw ACV first thing upon waking up. Also, throughout the day, apply a bit of diluted apple cider vinegar on the pimples. Let it dry naturally. Repeat application 3-4 times a day. This will get rid of acne and acne scars overnight.
2. B for Black molasses
Black molasses are obtained after boiling sugarcane juice 3 times before it is crystallized to give us refined sugar. The black liquid substance left behind during the 3rd distillation step is known as black molasses. It is extremely rich in iron, B vitamins and trace minerals needed for a healthy and glowing complexion. Regular intake of black molasses can eliminate bacteria causing acne.
How to use: Eat black molasses (add it to your coffee, tea, stews, cereals etc) daily for glowing complexion.
3. C for Castor oil
Castor oil is one of the best remedies for removing pimples and pimple marks. The oil nourishes the skin, reduces sebum and also stimulates the skin to heal itself.
How to use: Apply castor oil on the acne three to four times a day. Wash your face with a mild cleaner after 30 minutes.
4. D for Dead Sea mud mask
Dead Sea mud mask has been used by thousands of acne sufferers to get rid of zits overnight. It is a natural product containing hundreds of skin-benefiting nutrients that zap pimples and leave your skin feeling soft, healthy and nourished. It lightens and brightens skin, minimizes pores, reduces wrinkles and also eliminates older acne scars.
How to use: Apply a thin layer. Leave it on to dry (15-20 minutes). Rinse off with warm water.
5. E for Egg whites
Egg whites are one of the best natural remedies for pimples. They reduce sebum and dirt that cause the acne. Egg whites can also dry up the existing acne quickly to give you healthy and glowing acne-free skin.
How to use: Crack the eggs and separate the yolk. Apply a thin layer of the egg whites on the face. Let it dry naturally. Remove with water and mild soap.
6. F for Food
There are many foods that prevent acne and many that trigger acne. Any home treatment for pimples, acne and zits can be enhanced with proper diet.
What to eat- Foods that are good for the skin include fresh organic fruits and vegetables, plenty of water, green tea, nuts, seeds, eggs, lean meat, brown rice, quinoa, amaranth, buckwheat.
What to avoid- Refined foods, oily, greasy junk food, sugar, red meat, dairy, grains, soya,
7. G for Green tea
Green tea is rich in antioxidants that give you a healthy, glowing skin. If your skin is producing excess sebum, chances are that your body is having inflammation. Green tea reduces inflammation to prevent excess sebum.
How to use: drink 1-2 cups of green tea a day (no more than that, as excess is known to give rise to hypertension). Use green tea mask for acne (apply brewed tea on the pimples and let it dry naturally).
8. H for Hemp seed oil
Hemp seed oil is being termed as the Holy Grail for acne sufferers. Nearly 4 out of 5 users who used hemp seed oil for treating acne will recommend it to their friends looking for quick acne cures.
How to use: Consume 1-2 tbsp of high quality hemp seed oil daily to curb sebum production. Also apply pure hemp seed oil on acne and leave it on overnight.
9. I for Illu-Mask® anti-wrinkle and anti-acne light therapy
Illu-mask is based on the principle of light therapy for skin rejuvenation. It is very effective for use on mild to moderate acne and for sufferers who do not want to take antibiotics for acne. Even celebrities like Kim Kardashian are known to swear by this acne remedy.
How to use: Use the mask daily or at least 3 times a week. The mask comes with a timer so you use it only for the specified time.
10. J for Jojoba oil
Jojoba oil is light, non-comedogenic oil that can be applied with some Aloe Vera gel or coconut oil on the acne and blemishes to reduce scarring.
How to use: Use daily as a moisturizer with some Aloe Vera gel or coconut oil after cleansing the face.
11. K for Vitamin K
Vitamin K is often overlooked when it comes to eating a healthy diet to combat acne. It is one of the best ways to cure pimples permanently.
How to use vitamin K for acne-Apply Vitamin K anti acne cream daily on acne and acne scars overnight for 1 month. Also eat a diet rich in vitamin K found in eggs, kale, spinach etc. Read some vitamin K success stories for acne scarring here.
12. L for L-lysine
L-lysine is one of the best natural cures for getting rid of pimples overnight. This essential amino acid boosts collagen and enables the skin to heal itself reducing acne scars in the process.
How to use L-lysine to reduce acne-Try and take L-lysine supplements (500 mg once a day for 2 months), in order to see a noticeable difference in your complexion.
13. M for Manuka honey
Manuka honey is calming and moisturizing. You also get manuka oil which soothes acne scars and reduces future breakouts with its anti-inflammatory and antibacterial action.
How to use manuka honey for acne-Apply raw and active manuka honey every day on the acne for at least 20 minutes before rinsing off clean.
14. N for Nutmeg
Nutmeg is a proven acne scar reducing treatment that can be done in the comforts of your home. Nutmeg contains essential oils and compounds that fight blemishes and reduce scarring and uneven skin tone.
How to use: Mix nutmeg powder with cold milk to make a thick paste. Apply this paste on the acne and acne scars. Keep it on for a few hours. Wash off clean with warm water.
15. O for Olive oil
Olive oil for acne prone skin is one of the best natural cures to get rid of scars and prevent fresh bout of pimples. Not only does it remove toxins from the skin, it also reduces sebum production. Olive oil contains vitamin E which restores the skin’s balance and soothes inflammation.
How to use: Apply olive oil and lemon juice on the skin. Massage the face in circular motion. You can also make a homemade scrub containing brown sugar and olive oil to exfoliate the skin, reduce blackheads and whiteheads and reveal younger, smoother skin underneath.
16. P for Peroxide
Two types of peroxides can benefit acne prone skin: hydrogen peroxide and benzoyl peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide is a quick, easy and an inexpensive acne cure. It helps dry the acne up and also lightens the scar tissue. Your dermatologist will also prescribe benzoyl peroxide creams or cleansers. These can be a bit drying on the skin; so make sure you use a moisturizing lotion to reduce dryness.
How to use: Apply hydrogen peroxide on the pimples using a clean, sterile cotton ball. Let the solution dry up naturally. You can follow it up with an oil-free moisturizer.
17. Q for Quercetin
Acne that results due to allergy to certain foods can be curbed by increasing Quercetin content in your diet. Quercetin is found in apples, red onions, red wine, peppers, broccoli, tomatoes, dark cherries etc. It acts as a natural antihistamine to curb acne breakouts.
How to use: Eat plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables. Drink fresh green smoothies. Take a multi-vitamin and multi mineral pill.
18. R for Retinol
Retinol is especially recommended for adult acne and this derivative of Vitamin A also helps fight wrinkles. Retinol is anti aging and it boosts collagen production. It also reduces hyperpigmentation caused by sun damage.
How to use: Retinol creams are readily available in the market. Make sure you use them as directed. Also apply sunscreen as the product can make your skin susceptible to sun damage.
19. S for Sulfur
Sulfur is one of the oldest natural acne cures that can help you eliminate pimples overnight. It is a gentle, effective mineral that is naturally found in our body and is needed to bind connective tissue. Regular use of sulfur can prevent breakouts, promote cell turnover, refine uneven skin tone, prevent acne-causing bacteria to spread and also dry out existing blemishes.
How to use: Use 4% sulfacetamide every morning. Many products containing sulfur are readily available in the market. One such product is Bye Bye Blemish which is inexpensive and can be used regularly for curing acne overnight. It contains 10% sulfur. It might cause mild itchiness and irritation in the beginning. Make sure the product does not get in your eyes.
20. T for Tea tree oil
Tea tree oil is antimicrobial, antifungal and also antiseptic. It helps remove bacteria and sebum in the pores to prevent breakouts. Tea tree oil is one of the best remedies to zap pimples overnight. It disinfects the skin and dries out blackheads, whiteheads and active acne.
How to use: In case you are using highly concentrated tea tree oil, dilute it first with a carrier oil like Jojoba or sweet almond oil. Apply the oils on the pimples and let it remain overnight. You can also mix tea tree oil with witch hazel toner and apply 10 drops of the mixture all over the acne. Tea tree oil can be very drying, so follow up with a light moisturizer.
21. U for Urine therapy
Yucks! Gross! But it works! Urine therapy helps reduce severe cystic acne and can actually cause your skin to glow. According to Ayurveda, the ancient Indian medicinal science, drinking cow’s urine is known to build immunity and even fight cancer. Some people also drink their own urine. Applying urine to acne prone skin can dry out pimples in a short amount of time.
How to use: Drink tons of water. Apply your morning pee to the pimples. Let it dry out naturally. Don’t worry, it won’t smell if you have made sure to drink tons of water.
22. V for vodka
Does vodka help acne scars? Apparently it does! You can use vodka on the skin as a toner. The alcohol in the vodka dries out pimples and leaves you with a glowing skin. It also acts like a safe natural astringent that kills the acne-causing bacteria and dries out excess sebum to give you a clearer complexion.
How to use: Dip a cotton ball in vodka and apply it to the pimples. You can also use vodka in your shampoo to eliminate dandruff that could cause forehead acne.
23. W for witch hazel
Witch hazel contains natural salicylic acid that dries up acne overnight. It is also an effective natural remedy for acne scars.
How to use: Use witch hazel toner morning and evening after cleansing the face.
24. X for X out
X out spot corrector acne treatment has received mix reviews. 49% of reviews gave it a 5 star rating. Most people said that it cleared up the acne overnight.
How to use: Use day and night. Keep using it for long lasting results.
25. Y for yogurt face mask
Yogurt face mask can reduce blemishes and zap zits overnight. Eating yogurt can also help as it has probiotic or good bacteria that fight bad bacteria that cause skin eruptions. (In some acne sufferers, eliminating dairy actually clears up acne!). The lactic acid in yogurt exfoliates the skin, unclogs pores and stops pimples from spreading to health areas of the skin.
How to use: There are many ways to make yogurt mask for acne and you should decide upon the ingredients based on your skin type. For example, if you have oily skin, you can mix Bentonite clay and yogurt which will help absorb excess oil. For dry or sensitive skin, mix yogurt, honey and turmeric. For combination skin, mash up some strawberries and mix them up with yogurt. Apply the mask on the face, leave it on for 30 minutes and wash off clean. Use up to 3 times a week for moderate to severe acne.
26. Z for zinc
Acne sufferers are usually known to be deficient in zinc. So taking a zinc supplement can help as this mineral is essential for healthy skin. Skin creams containing zinc oxide can also be used to cure acne quickly. Many people have actually tried diaper rash creams with zinc to clear up blemishes.
How to use: Take zinc in the form of zinc methionine and zinc picolinate (at least 30 mg of elemental zinc per day).
Related Posts
Nodular Acne Home Treatment: 7 Remedies That Really Work!
Nodular acne can be a nightmare-be it for a teenager or an adult. Not only…
Why Does My Skin Look So Bad In Winter - Home Remedies for Winter Acne
Many women and men experience severe acne outbreaks in winters. There are many reasons why…
Acne Laser Treatment - Adult Acne Skin Treatment
Acne or medically termed acne vulgaris is a common skin condition among teenagers and adults.…
Got acne? Here are 10 products that can help you get rid of it.
How to Deal with Adult Acne Depression
Adult Acne
How To Make DHT Hormonal Acne Go Away Naturally (Includes a Herbal Remedy)
Treatment
Do Certain Foods Cause Acne? What is The Link Between Diet and Acne?
Adult Acne
Do Chemical Peels For Acne Give You Clear Skin?
Treatment
About Jacob
Hi, my name is Jacob Olesen. I will show you how to get rid of acne and keep your skin healthy and beautiful.
More info about this website.
Do you like my website? Tell me all about that.
If you prefer, you can also send me a quick email.
Always contact your doctor for medical advice.
Privacy Policy · Disclaimer · Copyright © 2019