Skin - Dr Jill Tomlinson
Home
Body
Abdominoplasty
Brachioplasty
Hyperhidrosis treatment
Labiaplasty
Scar management
Breast
Gynaecomastia
Nipple inversion correction
Burns
Face
Blepharoplasty / eyelid surgery
Mole, skin tag & lump removal
Scar management
Ears
Chondrodermatitis nodularis helicis
Prominent ear correction
Ear gauge repair
Ear molding
Preauricular skin tag / accessory tragus
Hand / wrist
Skin
Basal cell carcinoma
Dermapen Cryo™
Efudix / Fluorouracil
Melanoma prevention
Melanoma treatment
Mole, skin tag & lump removal
Picato® gel (Ingenol Mebutate)
Scar management
Skin cancer prevention
Squamous cell carcinoma
Dermal Therapies
Acne
Brushes
Clinical grade skincare
Dermapen3™
Mineral makeup
Pigmentation
Rosacea
Serums
Synergie Skin Kits
Dermapen3™
Antioxidant Cocktail™
Brite Lite™
Collagen Induction Therapy - Dermapen3™
Cover Recover™
Dermapen3™ Packages
Dermapen Cryo™
Hyla Active™
Hyla Active™ 3D Sculptured Mask™
MyDermapen
Micro Derm™ Exfoliant
Retinal Active™
Tri-Phase Cleanser™
Vitamin Rich Repair™
HomeDermal TherapiesMineral makeupSkin
Print
Retinal Active™
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 05 July 2016 .
Retinal Active™ provides an intense infusion of Vitamin A for repair, rejuvenation and anti-aging results.
KEY BENEFITS
Visibly firms and lifts atrophied contours
Promotes regeneration and repair
Nourishes and comforts for increased resiliency
Absorbs easily
Improves hydration in and around skin cells
Combats skin damage from sun and aging
All skin types and Skin conditions; Aged, pigmented, dehydrated, sun-damaged
DOCTOR’S TIPS
Use every third night (for 2 weeks) prior to skin needling and rejuvenation treatments as a skin prep
Suitable as a night cream, if irritation occurs, stagger the use to alternative nights or every third night
Recommence use 3 days after skin needling and rejuvenation treatments
METHOD OF USE
After cleansing with Tri-Phase Cleanser, apply sparingly every third night (for 2 weeks), to cleansed face, neck and décolleté. Not recommended for use during pregnancy, or as an immediate follow up to skin rejuvenation treatments.
KEY INGREDIENTS
Vitamin A - Retinaldehyde concentrate - Skin compatible, active Vitamin A. Effectively improves and regulates cellular activity to visibly reduce discoloration and fine lines. Improves skin tone and radiance for generally younger-looking skin.
Vitamin E - A potent antioxidant that reinforces barrier function and protection. The skin is armed against environmental aggression for a visibly stronger and resilient integrity.
Neodermyl - A patented power copper peptide that is clinically proven to revitalise aged cells to stimulate refreshed and renewed collagen production. The skin is visibly plumped with increased volume and firmness.
Hylafuse Complex - A triple weighted Hyaluronic Acid complex that effortlessly absorbs into the skin to promote maximum hydration moisture infusion and long lasting comfort.
RRP $139
Print
Cover Recover™
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 05 July 2016 .
Cover Recover™ is an amazing liquid foundation designed for use after skin treatments including Dermapen3™ skin needling and rejuvenation procedures such as peels and cosmetic injectables.
Cover Recover™ offers:
Cooling: Customised cooling agents designed for application following rejuvenation treatments relieve calm, calm and soothe irritated skin. The immediate sensation of coolness awakens and refreshes the skin while delivering long lasting protection.
Coverage: Weightless yet buildable, Cover Recover™ blends for undetectable, breathable coverage that transforms skin into a flawless, smooth appearance. Light diffusing elements blur imperfections with self-adjusting pigment. With 8 versatile shades, the hypoallergenic formula blends seamlessly!
Recovery: Repair inflamed and damaged cells with a dynamic combination of pro-biotics, antioxidants and peptides. Cover Recover™ features the unique HylaFuse™ Complex to stimulate, repair and saturate the skin with long lasting hydration. Anti-bacterial probiotics promote strengthened support immunity.
Protection: With a broadspectrum, non-chemical SPF30, Cover Recover™ is essential for post rejuvenation and everyday ultraviolet protection. Cover Recover™ is the quintessential solution to minimising downtime and provides comfortable, seamless coverage immediately after Dermapen3™ skin needling and rejuvenation procedures including peels and cosmetic injectables.
Shades available: Ivory, Creme, Taupe, Warm Beige, Beige, Sand, Tawny, Cocoa.
RRP $89.95
Print
Stratamed® scar gel
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 13 March 2016 .
S tratamed® is a silicone wound dressing used for post procedure care, wound healing and scar management.
Stratamed can be used immediately after surgery, skin resurfacing procedures, trauma, burns and on chronic wounds. Benefits include:
Full contact flexible wound dressing
Faster wound healing and reduced inflammatory response
Wound hydration and protection of compromised skin from microbial and bacterial invasion
Allows prevention of abnormal scarring to begin earlier than ever before, which significantly reduces the likelihood and severity of abnormal scarring
Suitable for people with sensitive skin and for children
Safe to use during pregnancy and while breastfeeding
Transparent, 100% odour free, does not contain fragrances, parabens or alcohol
Where to buy
Stratamed® is available for purchase from our rooms; the most popular product size is a 5g tube for $30.
Print
Kelo-cote® silicone gel
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 13 March 2016 .
K elo-cote® is a patented silicone scar gel that has been clinically proven to reduce the redness, hardness, elevation, itch and pain associated with scars. It has also demonstrated efficacy in preventing hypertrophic and keloid scar development after surgery, trauma, or burns. The patented formula is supported by extensive peer reviewed evidence.
Kelo-cote® gel dries to a waterproof, gas permeable membrane that acts like an extra layer of skin. It helps to soften, flatten and smooth the scar while maintaining the moisture balance and elasticity of the adjacent skin. It has also been shown to reduce the discoloration and itching associated with scars. It is ideal for use on children and sensitive skin.
Kelo-cote® UV is the only 100% silicone scar treatment with SPF-30 providing UVA/UVB protection.
How does Kelo-cote® work?
K elo-cote® works in the same way as silicone gel sheets. Its unique formulation ensures that an ultra thin layer of silicone binds to the top layer of the skin (stratum corneum) forming a durable membrane. This ultra thin waterproof sheet increases the hydration of the stratum corneum but also allows the skin underneath to breathe. The thinner the layer, the more durable the material will be and the better the breathability.
Because Kelo-cote® binds to the stratum corneum, the contact time of the silicone gel is maximized. Kelo-cote® has no such reports of maceration, pruritus or localized infection issues, while conventional silicone sheets do.
Kelo-cote® rapidly dries to form a custom fitted silicone sheet (this silicone gel sheet layer is gas permeable, flexible and waterproof). It forms a protective barrier against chemical, physical and microbial invasion of the scar site while assisting with hydration. This creates an environment that allows the scar to mature through normalized collagen synthesis cycles, and improves the physiological and cosmetic appearance of the scar.
where to buy
For the convenience of our patients Kelo-cote® is available for purchase from our rooms. The most popular products (depicted above right) are Kelo-cote® UV 6g for $40.22 and Kelo-cote® 6g for $38.24 (RRP).
Print
Stratamark® stretch mark scar gel
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 13 March 2016 .
Stratamark® is the first and only medical product with clinically proven efficacy and safety for both prevention and treatment of stretch marks. Stratamark® was specifically developed for treatment and prevention of all types of stretch marks, including from pregnancy, adolescent growth spurts, weight gain, and bodybuilding.
Stratamark® is easily applied to all areas of the skin and is easy to spread over large surface areas, making it ideal for use on the buttocks, abdomen, thighs, breasts and back. When used as directed, Stratamark® dries to form a invisible sheet, a protective layer that is gas permeable and waterproof which hydrates and protects your stretch marks, allowing the skin to normalize the collagen synthesis cycle.
Benefits of Stratamark®
Stratamark® is a unique gel formulation with clinically proven efficacy, specifically designed for the prevention and treatment of all types of stretch marks.
Prevents stretch marks from forming
Softens and flattens stretch marks
Reduces redness and discoloration associated with stretch marks
Relieves the itching and discomfort of stretch marks
Stratamark® is applied in a very thin layer to the relevant areas.
Highly efficient: Stratamark® gel is a unique formulation that requires substantially less product per application than typical moisturizing creams or cosmetic preparations.
Easy application to all areas of the skin, including exposed and sensitive areas
Can be covered by undergarments, sunscreens or cosmetics
Stratamark® dries to form a thin, flexible and protective gel sheet that is gas permeable and waterproof.
Hydrates and protects the skin
Stratamark® is transparent and odorless. It does not contain alcohol, fragrances or parabens.
Suitable for pregnant women, breastfeeding mothers, children and people with sensitive skin
Stratamark® can be purchased from our rooms and retails at $46 for a 20g tube and $80 for a 50g tube.
If you would like to access treatment for stretch marks please contact our reception on (03) 9427 9596 to arrange a consultation with one of our practice nurses to have your scars assessed and to discuss the treatment options. A nurse consultation costs $45 and the consultation cost is redeemable with the purchase of skin treatments or products.
Print
Picato® gel (Ingenol Mebutate)
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 07 February 2016 .
Picato® gel (Ingenol Mebutate) is a topical medication that is used to treat sunspots (also called "actinic keratoses" or "solar keratoses"). It differs from other topical creams such as Aldara® (imiquimod) and Efudix® (fluorouracil) because it only requires daily application for two or three days to achieve its effect, rather than for 3-8 weeks.
About Picato®
Picato® is available only with a doctor's prescription and comes in two different strengths (0.05% and 0.015%), the choice of which is made by your doctor based on the area of the body that is being treated. You can expect a reduction in sunspots of around 80-85% in the areas treated after the course of treatment. Treatment on the face or scalp is generally for three days, whereas treatment on the limbs or trunk is for two days. The medication costs around $140 to purchase at a pharmacy or chemist and is not listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
Picato® is a medication that is developed and produced in Australia. In 1997 Australian scientists isolated a group of compounds from the Euphorbia peplus plant. The active ingredient in Picato® is ingenol mebutate, which is produced in Australia. Queensland and New South Wales are the only places in the world where the plant is grown for commercial use.
How does it work?
Picato® works by killing rapidly growing cells. It is a cytotoxic medication.
Can Picato® be used to treat skin cancers?
At this time Picato® is licensed only for the treatment of sunspots, not skin cancers. Clinical trials are underway investigating the treatment of early skin cancers with Picato®, but at this time Dr Jill Tomlinson does not recommend the use of Picato® gel for the treatment of skin cancers.
Instructions
Picato® should be kept in the fridge, out of the reach of children. Once the treatment course has finished please discard any left over gel.
Apply Picato® only to the areas advised by your doctor.
When treating the face or scalp apply Picato® gel 0.015% once a day for three consecutive days.
When treating the trunk or limbs apply Picato® gel 0.05% once a day for two consecutive days.
Apply Picato® gel with a fingertip and spread evenly over the treatment area, allowing 15 minutes for it to dry. The application should cover a 5cm x 5cm area and the visible sunspot or sunspots. After application wash your hands with soap and water immediately (unless you are treating your hands, in which case only wash the fingertip that was used for applying the gel.
Apply only to dry skin, so do not apply immediately before or immediately after taking a shower. Avoid touching or washing the treated area for six hours after application. Do not apply Picato® gel less than two hours before you go to bed. Do not cover the treated area with bandaids, bandages or other dressings. Do not get Picato® gel in your eyes. If you do get gel in your eyes, wash your eyes with large volumes of water and seek medical attention.
During treament, protect yourself from sunlight and ultra violet radiation through the use of hats, clothing and sun-avoidance behaviour. Do not use sunscreen on the area of treatment during treatment. After treatment has ended you can (and should) use sunscreen on the treated area whenever it is exposed to the sun.
Side effects of Picato® gel
It is expected that you will have a skin reaction during treatment with Picato® gel. These reactions include skin redness, skin flaking, blister formation, swelling, pain, itching and skin irritation. You may also experience a headache.
Skin reactions are temporary. They start within one day of treatment and can continue worsening for one week after the application of Picato® gel stops. Healing of the skin is usually complete at around two weeks after treatment. If you have ongoing problems or concerns please contact your doctor.
More severe side effects can include skin ulceration and weeping, and swelling of the eyelids. If you think the treatment site has become secondarily infected (which is associated with more severe pain, redness and discharge) please contact your doctor so that you can be reviewed and your doctor can provide advice on further treatment.
How do I know if Picato® gel is right for me?
Please see your doctor to discuss if Picato® gel is right for you. Picato® gel is only available with a doctor's prescription, so you will need to see a doctor to access this treatment.
What are the alternatives?
Alternative options for the treatment of sunspots include Aldara® cream (imiquimod), Efudix® cream (fluorouracil), Solaraze® gel (diclofenac) and cryotherapy. Information written by Dr Jill Tomlinson about these treatments is available in the weblinks provided; further information is available at the NPS MedicineWise website. To discuss the pros and cons of each treatment, and which one is best for you, please arrange an appointment by calling (03) 9427 9596.
More Articles ...
Dermapen Cryo™
Synergie Skin Kits
Serums
Pigmentation
About Dr Tomlinson
Information for patients
Locations
"See & Treat" Service
Patient care philosophy
About this website
Post operative instructions
Contact Us
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Search only trustworthy HONcode health websites:
Website Disclaimer
This website is authored by Dr Jillian Tomlinson, a fully qualified plastic, reconstructive and hand surgeon who practices in Melbourne, Australia. This website aims to inform patients and health professionals about hand surgery, illness prevention and the practice philosophy of Dr Jill Tomlinson. This website's content is designed to complement, not replace, the relationship between a patient and his/her own doctor. The information is not intended to replace the advice of a health professional. This website does not host or receive funding from advertising or from the display of commercial content.
Site Map