Ten Natural Headache Remedies that can Insure Instant Relief - MIGRAINENET
Skip to content
Skip to secondary menu
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to secondary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Donate
Resources
Site Map
Contact Us
Migraine Herbal Mix For You
MIGRAINENET
Heal Your Migraine Naturally!
Migraine News
Migraine Tools
Migraine Recipes
Ten Natural Headache Remedies that can Insure Instant Relief
April 1, 2017 By Sanjay Sharma Leave a Comment
These days, life can be pretty stressful and awfully busy, and the “usual headache” is sometimes overlooked or get masked with OTC painkiller (which, if overused, can lead to many serious health issues).
A simple headache is a clear indicator that your body is missing something-maybe you need to drink some fresh water, you need to take a breather, or change the way you eat. You may have some food sensitivity or a nutrient or vitamin deficiency that is causing this built-up tension.
Mostly, headaches are triggered by fatigue, stress, eyestrain, allergies, alcohol, poor posture, or drugs, hormones, low blood sugar, nutritional deficiencies and constipation. Your body is trying to tell you that something needs to be changed, so its in your best interest to heed to those signals and use these ten headache remedies, which includes vitamins, herbs, diet changes, posture correction and more, to easily overcome headaches in a healthy and natural way.
Top Ten Headache Remedies
1. Mix Of Breads
If you have gluten sensitivity and eat foods with large amounts of gluten, it can quickly lead to headache. According to a report by National Foundation of Celiac Awareness, all those who have undiagnosed migraine headache and celiac disease often see either significant reduction in strength and frequency of symptoms, or complete resolution of migraine headaches after giving up gluten.
You may not be suffering from celiac disease, but even gluten sensitivity may give you a headache. If this is the case, then there is not need to cut your gluten completely-instead try to limit your daily intake.
Start this easy-to-follow migraine remedy by eliminating gluten for about two weeks, then introduce few foods with small gluten content slowly. Pay attention to what you feel when you add more gluten to your daily diet and then try to find a happy balance. It’s best to listen to your body-you will easily find out the amount of each food group you can easily eat without triggering symptoms.
2. Magnesium
Magnesium is one of the most potent headache remedies, mainly because it’s much safer than taking those harmful painkillers. All those who suffer from chronic headaches, like migraines, often have much lower magnesium levels, and many studies suggest that magnesium can definitely reduce frequency of migraine attacks in people having low levels.
People suffering from heart disease, diabetes, alcoholism as well as those who are on diuretics for blood pressure are prone to low counts of magnesium.
Magnesium can prevent the wave of brain signaling, known as cortical spreading depression, which produces many sensory and visual changes that are common for all those who experience headaches, especially migraine. Magnesium can easily block various pain-transmitting chemicals in the brain, and can also improve platelet function, which will definitely help your body react to various injuries and prevent bleeding.
You just need 25-500 mg of magnesium in a day to reduce frequency of your headache attacks. Both intravenous and oral magnesium are widely available, extremely inexpensive and safe. Magnesium can be used safely by pregnant women. The most common side effect of magnesium is diarrhea, but you can easily control it by lowering your dose or taking it less often.
To boost your daily magnesium intake, you also need to eat more fiber. Dietary sources of magnesium include whole grains, beans, nuts, seeds, and vegetables like squash, broccoli, and leafy greens, meats, dairy products, coffee and chocolates also include decent levels of magnesium.
3. Lavender and Peppermint Essential Oil
The numbing and calming effects of both lavender and peppermint oils make them best tools for relieving most headache symptoms.
Lavender oil is mostly used as a sedative and mood stabilizer. Research shows that use of lavender oil is an effective and safe treatment of migraine headaches. Study in 2014 in Texas measures results of inhaling lavender oil for 20 minutes. The 78 participants were asked to record the effects every half hour, for two hours. Out of 133 headache attacks, 87 responded to the lavender oil remedy.
Peppermint oil can generate a long-lasting soothing and cooling effect on your skin. It stimulates a significant increase in your skin blood flow of the forehead, and soothes muscle contractions. One study in 2007 showed that peppermint oil, when combined with some ethanol, can reduce headache sensitivity.
So both these essential oils combine to create a really effective headache remedy, so take advantage of their benefits by placing just few drops of lavender or peppermint oil into your hands and then rubbing this blend on your forehead, back of the neck and temples. If you feel this smell is too strong for you, or if peppermint appears too chilling, you can dilute it down by mixing these essential oils with some grapeseed, almond or coconut oil. With addition of coconut oil, you can benefit from its amazing health benefits-such as moisturizing skin, balancing hormones, and reducing wrinkles.
4. Herbs: Feverfew & Butterbur
Headaches can also be relieved in a natural way with the help of some tension-easing herbs.
The feverfew leaves are used to make medicine. Research shows can consumption of feverfew can reduce frequency of migraine attacks and headache symptoms, including nausea, pain, sensitivity to noise and light, and vomiting.
In a systematic review, the School of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Science, United Kingdom, compared the results of eight studies. The results show that feverfew is highly effective in preventing migraine headaches and doesn’t pose any safely concerns.
If you want to try this completely natural remedy, it’s very easy to buy feverfew online on many websites. You can also get feverfew supplements in the form of tablets, capsules or liquid extracts; the recommended dose for fast headache relief is 40-100mg of feverfew extract.
Butterbur can also reduce inflammatory effects of chemicals that can trigger headaches, especially migraines. It also acts as beta blockers, resulting in improved blood flow to brain. Doses of around 70-80mg twice a day seems to be perfect for the best results.
One study, carried out for over six-month period by Albert Einstein College of Medicine showed that migraine attack frequency was reduced by 57 percent in participants who consumed 80mg of butterbur thrice a day.
5. Chiropractic Care & Posture
The best thing about chiropractic care is that is’ completely surgery free and drug-free path to healing naturally. The chiropractor will work towards reducing oxidative stress in your body, just like any oxidant.
Oxidative stress in a body is the damage that occurs when free radicals outnumber all of the body’s antioxidants. It can damage all body cell components: lipids, proteins, and DNA.
Many clinical trials indicate that spinal manipulation therapy can also treat headaches. In one such study, 31 percent of those who received chiropractic manipulation reported more than 87 percent reduction of headaches; and 44 percent reported that headache intensity was significantly reduced after receiving chiropractic care.
Spinal manipulation or chiropractic adjustments help to alleviate some stress of your system. Many studies in the past clearly show that chiropractic manipulation reduces migraine and tension headaches. In a study conducted by Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College in 2013 involving 917 subjects, of when 644 received chiropractic care and their outcomes ranged from nice to excellent, clearly indicating that it’s beneficial and positive headache remedy.
6. B-Complex Vitamins
Several B vitamins play a significant role in formation of neurotransmitters, (such as serotonin), which is deficient in all those who suffer from different types of migraines. Sadly, millions in United States suffer from one or more of the B vitamins and this is reason they experience energy slumps, adrenal effects, unhealthy blood cells, headache symptoms, ad foggy thinking.
A B-complex vitamin actually includes a group of 8 water soluble vitamins: riboflavin, thiamine, vitamin B6, niacin, vitamin B12, pantothenic acid and biotin. Together they play an important role in improving circulation, brain cells, cardiovascular health and immune function.
B vitamins are completely water-soluble, so there is no danger of overdose. If they’re extra in your system, they will be flushed out with urine. Many studies indicate that while vitamin B2 can reduce duration and frequency of migraines, vitamin B3 can calm vascular headaches by opening up constricted blood vessels to improve blood flow. So try taking just one B-complex vitamin a day, as their benefits go far beyond the headache relief.
An interesting study on psychological strain and mood associated with acute work stress measured the real effectiveness of a four-month administration of three forms of high-dose vitamin B complex. 67 participants were involved in this trial that assessed their personality, mood, work demands, strain and anxiety.
The groups treated with vitamin B complex fared much better than the control group, reporting much lower levels of “personal strain”, and overall reduction in depressed/dejected mood and confusion after 12 weeks. The outcome clearly suggested that vitamin B complex were a cost-effective treatment for the psychological strain and mood effects on occupational stress.
7. Detox Bath to Reduce Tension
A detox can not only clean your body, but is also good for ridding it from many toxins that can otherwise make you sick and can be one of the easiest and best preventive headache remedies. To bring toxins to the surface of your skin, you need to sit in sufficiently hot water (as much as you can tolerate), and then subsequently you must sit in cooling water. This prompts your body to release many toxins.
It’s possible to quickly dress up your favorite detox bath to enhance its tension reducing capabilities:
Add some essential oil to your bath water- you can find so many surprising essential oil benefits and uses. The calming, soothing, cooling and invigorating qualities of these oils will surely release all pent-up tension in your body. Try peppermint, lavender, frankincense, lemongrass or sandalwood oil.
Add half a cup of baking soda to your hot bath water. Baking soda can kill bacteria, and will leave your skin smooth and clean, and also minimizes skin irritability-making it an inexpensive and handy product.
Add about two and a half cups of apple cider vinegar to hot bath water. Apple cider vinegar can draw excess uric acid out of your body, and can provide arthritis, joint pain, headache and gout relief. It can also heal poison ivy, soothe sunburn, kill fungus, and can also tone up your skin.
8. Stay Hydrated
The dehydrating effects of sugary drinks, coffee and alcohol may leave many of us with a killer headache. In f fact, many people are simply not getting enough water, which in itself can relive migraine or headache pain and symptoms. This simple (and completely free) remedy can keep you feeling energized, full and headache-free.
Veggies and fruits will also quench your thirst and help stay hydrated-some even have water content of up to 94 percent. Try adding some nutritious fruits and veggies to your daily diet in order to stay fully hydrated throughout the day:
• celery
• cucumbers
• radishes
• cabbage
• green peppers
• zucchini
• eggplant
• cauliflower
• spinach
• strawberries
• watermelon
• grapefruit
• oranges
• cantaloupe
A study by National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery in 2006 has concluded that there is indeed water-deprivation headache. This study notes that while water-deprivation is indeed recognized by public, it’s never described in any medical literature. This study indicates that headache due to paucity of water include irritability and impaired concentration, too!
Therefore, if you feel a migraine or headache coming on, improve your water intake and drink up.
9. Stretching and Moving
Staying in one position, without periodic movements for a long time, can lead to body tension, can lead to many headache symptoms.
In addition, let’s face it, many of us spend lot of time at smartphones. This position, with your head sticking out, can put an extra 15-20 pounds on pressure on your neck!
No wonder this type of position can lead to major tension headaches. An easy way out to avoid chain reaction is to take a short break every 20-30 minutes-stretch and move your neck and head around in perfect circular motion. This can quickly relieve built up stress and may also help in avoiding headaches.
Yoga is a nice and easy way to relieve any built-up tension. It can clear up your mind and loosen your muscles-it also improves vitality, respiration, and muscle strength, and is good for your circulatory system. If, at any time, you feel headache coming on, you can try few yoga poses, such as child’s pose or the downward facing dog.
A 2010 study by the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation based in Finland measured the results of stretching program for 78 women. The 10-month program resulted in a 74 percent decrease in headache frequency and symptom intensity. In addition to stretching, the results seemed even better when these participants added strength training and muscle endurance exercises to their routines.
10. Cayenne Muscle Rub
Cayenne pepper has the power to stimulate your body’s natural circulation and reduce some acidity-and makes one of the most effective and surprising headache remedies. The capsaicin present in cayenne is best for treating inflammation and pain-cayenne helps in reducing the body element that makes you feel pain, known as substance P, by successfully stimulating a pain response in another area of your body.
When amount of substance P reduces, the pain messages no longer reach the brain, and you may feel relief. When it is applied topically as muscle rub, cayenne has the power to relieve headache symptoms and smoothly relax your muscles.
In the United States today, cayenne pepper is mostly used as a spice, but in many parts of the world and societies, it goes far beyond just flavoring food. For all native Americans as well as all those who live in china, cayenne pepper is mostly used for therapeutic reasons.
Related posts:
Acupuncture shows promise in effective migraine treatment, study says
Promising Migraine Supplements And Herbs
Vitamin C can treat your Migraine Headaches
These Foods Help Eliminate Even the most Stubborn Tension Headaches
Water Chemicals Pose a REAL Danger because then Water becomes your Enemy
Did you know Reverse Osmosis Water is actually a Pure Dead Water
Blow Away your Weekend Migraine Naturally with these Tips
It’s better if You Get your Migraine Minerals and Vitamins through Diet
Valuable Tips to enjoy a Sound Sleep through the Night and Avoid recurring Migraine Attacks due to A...
Filed Under: Migraine Supplements Tagged With: natural headache remedies
About Sanjay Sharma
40+ year migraine warrior, patient advocate, nature lover, and now Migrainenet author, Sanjay's mission is to help worldwide sufferers while boosting awareness about natural migraine cures.
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Primary Sidebar
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Search the site ...
About Author
I'm a married man in my 40's and live in India with my wife and a cute little daughter Gauranshi. I've been experiencing ocular migraine attacks since 2003. Initially, I tried western medicine with no positive results. My migraine worsened with time and it was then that I decided to give Ayurvedic herbs a try in 2009.
The experience was pleasant. I won't say my migraine attacks have stopped, but there is definitely a 96-98- percent improvement. Earlier I had an attack every 4-6 days, but now that's a thing of past, I rarely get attacks anymore. Whenever I experience migraine attack it is usually very light and I'm back to work within 10-15 minutes. I feel absolutely no pain during or after the episode.
I understand the perils of life with migraine and have vowed to spend rest of my life mitigating the sufferings of all those who experience migraine attacks from around the world.
Topics
General Pain Control (1)
Kimberly (1)
Migraine Foods (7)
Migraine Herbs (13)
Migraine in Women (4)
Migraine Medicines (7)
Migraine News (22)
Migraine Pain Control (71)
Migraine Recipes (14)
Migraine Supplements (21)
Migraine Tips (63)
Migraine Tips For Kids (5)
Migraine Tools (7)
We Recommend
Low-Tyramine Diet can work for your Migraine
Strangest Migraine Symptoms!
Migraineur’s Lavender Lemonade
These Tricks can Reduce your Daily Salt (Sodium) Intake and Banish Hypertension and Stress Induced Migraines
Blow Away your Weekend Migraine Naturally with these Tips
Mineral Water is BEST for Migraine Prevention
Did You Know About these Ayurvedic Headache Helpers?
Top Herbal Teas for Lasting Migraine Relief
The ADAM System for Migraine Management Medication Zolmitriptan is Coming Soon!
Your Migraine Headaches Could Be Coming From Your Neck
Acid Reflux could be the Reason Behind your recurring Migraines
Celery Juice Can Be Used to Treat Migraines and Headaches
These Tips Can Prevent Those Nasty Wine Headaches!
Sprouted Grains have a Better Nutritional Value than Whole Grains so they work well for Headaches and Migraines
Stop Your Migraine Within Minutes- Take Fresh Lemon Juice With Some Salt!
Pressure Points That Can Heal Migraines
Amazing Drinks That Help Relieve Your Migraine Nausea Within Minutes
Is Surgery My Next Option When Abortive Medication Fails To Bring Some Relief from Migraine Pain?
Getting Migraines at Work- Can your Employer Fire you from your Job?
Valuable Tips To Handle Your Migraine Fatigue
Five Simple Foods that Can Fight Migraines
Migraine Community is just a Click Away!
3 Strategies for Staying Positive in Recovery
Easy Stretches for Quick Tension Headache Relief
Three Alternative Methods of Addiction Recovery
Does Daith Piercing for Migraines Work? An Expert View
Ultimate Power Smoothie for Migraineurs
Your Ultimate Migraine Survival Kit!
Why People Avoid Triptans for their Every Migraine Attack
How to Manage Stress?
Some Yoga Positions Can Also Provide Lasting Migraine Relief
Wearable Ice Packs- A Gentler Way To Cool Your Throbbing Migraine
Grape Juice Can Relieve Migraine Symptoms in Some People
Septoplasty Can Reduce Migraine Attacks
Now Kids can also benefit from Botox Migraine Treatment
Suffering from Migraine—Eat your Spinach!
Proper Way to Use Magnesium for Migraines
Guide to the Best Ice Pack for Your Headache and Migraine
These Unique Tips will help you in getting Rid of your Migraine Headaches FAST
Migraines with Photophobia…You Can Handle Them
Email Newsletter (bi-monthly)
Your E-Mail Address
Latest Migraine News
A Narrow Band of Green Light has the potential to Improve Migraines
April 20, 2017
Researchers want to Cure Headaches During Flight
April 19, 2017
Migraine Tied to High Hypertension Risk in Some Women
May 5, 2017
Top Innovations In Migraine Treatments
May 25, 2017
Innovative sound therapy can successfully treats acute hypertension and migraine
April 5, 2017
Occipital Nerve Stimulation, And Five More New Migraine Treatments That Hold Promise
April 4, 2017
Top Migraine Bloggers In 2017
May 18, 2017
Specially Designed Earplugs Can Handle Weather Migraines
August 15, 2017
More Posts from this Category
Secondary Sidebar
Most Recent Posts
What’s the Link Between some Skin Rashes and Migraines
Acid Reflux could be the Reason Behind your recurring Migraines
Valuable Tips For Showering During Your Migraine Attack
Occipital Nerve Stimulation, And Five More New Migraine Treatments That Hold Promise
Surprising Migraine Triggers that can Rock you anytime!
Stop Your Migraine Within Minutes- Take Fresh Lemon Juice With Some Salt!
It’s better if You Get your Migraine Minerals and Vitamins through Diet
Chronic Migraines: Five Tips to Take Control
Here’s The List Of Top Migraine Myths
Healthiest Migraine drinks in the World!
Try These Easy-To-Use Natural Remedies To Get Rid Of Migraine Pain Instead Of Popping Pills
Pure Fish Oil Helps in Reducing Migraine Attacks
Will Omega Procedure for Migraine Control Work for you?
Simple Herbal Remedies For Your Migraine
Is Surgery My Next Option When Abortive Medication Fails To Bring Some Relief from Migraine Pain?
Tips to Beat Anxiety to get a Better Night’s Sleep and Avoid Migraines and Headaches
Peppermint Oil can provide Quick Migraine and Headache Relief
Promising Migraine Supplements And Herbs
Know Your Headache Season For Better Pain Management
Investigational Drug Eptinezumab Reduces Migraines
The Vinegar Solution Can Reduce Your Migraine Pain
What Are The Signs Of Opioid Addiction?
The New Migraine Drugs on the Horizon- They Promise A Relief but at a Steep Price!
Some Headaches may seem like Migraines but are actually Warning Signs of Brain Tumors
Suffering from Migraine—Eat your Spinach!
This Common Nutritional Deficiency May Cause Severe Migraine Headaches
6 Tips on Ways to Use your Mind to Reduce Migraine Pain
Five Valuable Tips to Prevent Summer-Season Migraines
Specially Designed Earplugs Can Handle Weather Migraines
Valuable Tips to Succeed in your School with Migraine
LED Green Lights offer a New Hope to Doctors who want to Treat Migraine Pain
Your Ultimate Migraine Survival Kit!
Tips To Avoid Your Migraine Triggers While Dining Out
These Foods can Help Eliminate your Tension Headaches
These Horrible Migraine Inducing Toxic ingredients are Hiding deep inside your Innocent Looking Food!
Menstrual Migraines Can Be Treated Easily
Apple Cider Vinegar Diet can Heal Migraine: It works!
Should I Tone Down My Workouts for the Sake of less Migraine Headaches?
Easy Tips to Stay Hydrated throughout the Day and Remain Migraine Free
These Medications can cause Headaches
How to Use Apple Cider Vinegar for handling your Headaches
CBD Oil Can Handle Some Migraine Headaches
Handle Your Migraine Headache With Charcoal!
Is there any link between my Jaw Problems and my Migraines?
3 Strategies for Staying Positive in Recovery
Hypnotherapy-A Natural Cure for Headaches and Migraines
Ways to Quickly Stop a Migraine Aura
Migraine Home Remedies from Around the World-Exciting Herbal Options That May Work For You
Walking for Migraine Control? Avoid those Traffic-Clogged Streets
These Are the Causes of Waking Up With a Headache
Latest Breakthrough in 2017- Neuromodulation Therapy can work for Cluster and Migraine Headaches
The Best Essential Oils For Your Migraines
Soda And Migraine Connection
Innovative Wireless Smartphone Device Could Reduce Your Migraine Pain!
These Foods Help Eliminate Even the most Stubborn Tension Headaches
Five Simple Foods that Can Fight Migraines
Almonds And Migraine Connection
Serotonin syndrome- What’s the Actual Risk to Regular Triptan Users?
Now Kids can also benefit from Botox Migraine Treatment
Important Things to Do After Your Migraine Appointment
Footer
Tags
acupuncture for migraine apple ginger butter from migraines aromatherapy for migraine best cheese for migraines botox for migraines children migriane treatment Eptinezumab reduces migraines Feverfew butter Flight headahce treatmnet folate for migraine grape juice for migraine Green light headahce cure handling migraine auras HIRREM and migraine hypnosis migraine pain control Innovative migraine treatments intense headache treatment latest migraine treatments migraine control migraine control with cayenne migraine foods migraine management tips Migraine Minerals And VItamins migraine pain control migraine pressure points migraine recipes migraines and almonds migraines and soda migraine supplements migraine tips for kids migraine treatment with gingko biloba migraine triggering foods migraine triggering vitamin deficiency migriane diet Moringa for migraine natural pain fighters new migraine treatmnet 2018 obesity and migraine right migraine treatment save money on migraine treatment sound threapy for migraine top migraine bloggers Triptans For Migraine Vitamin C for migraine yoga positions for migraine relief
Archives
Archives Select Month February 2019 (1) January 2019 (1) September 2018 (2) August 2018 (4) July 2018 (1) June 2018 (9) May 2018 (13) April 2018 (6) March 2018 (10) February 2018 (6) January 2018 (9) December 2017 (15) November 2017 (19) October 2017 (17) September 2017 (26) August 2017 (19) July 2017 (6) June 2017 (10) May 2017 (22) April 2017 (34) March 2017 (5)
© 2016-2019 Migrainenet Powered by Inmotion hosting
All rights reserved.