8 Natural Remedies for Eczema Relief
Newsletter
8 Natural Remedies to Reduce Eczema Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on April 17, 2019 Recently Updated — Written by Annette McDermott
Oatmeal
Evening primrose oil
Coconut oil
Sunflower oil
Witch hazel
Calendula cream
Acupuncture
Relaxation
Takeaway
Share on Pinterest
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Overview
If you live with eczema, you know what it’s like to search for relief from red, itchy skin. You’ve probably already tried a variety of products. Unfortunately, some items can leave your skin feeling drier and even more irritated.
Don’t give up hope yet! In addition to medications, there are many options you can try at home to help with your symptoms. The eight natural remedies listed below may help replenish moisture and protect your skin’s natural barrier.
If you’re taking prescription medications for your eczema, it’s a good idea to check with your doctor before trying new home remedies.
1. Colloidal oatmeal
Colloidal oatmeal is made from finely-ground oats. It helps calm and soften inflamed skin. Colloidal oatmeal is available in cream or powder form. Buy it here.
Here’s how to use it:
Add the powder to lukewarm bathwater and soak for 10 to 15 minutes to help soften rough skin and relieve itching.
After your bath, pat your skin dry and apply a thick layer of hypoallergenic moisturizer that has a high oil content.
2. Evening primrose oil
Evening primrose oil comes from the evening primrose plant. It’s used topically to soothe irritated skin.
When taken by mouth, it’s used to treat systemic inflammatory conditions such as eczema. Evening primrose oil contains omega-6 fatty acids and gamma-linolenic acid, which may play a role in preventing inflammation in the body.
Study results on evening primrose oil for eczema are mixed. Even so, many people claim it helps reduce their eczema symptoms without negative side effects. Shop evening primrose oil products here.
3. Coconut oil
Coconut oil is extracted from coconut meat. It may be used as a natural moisturizer.
According to the National Eczema Association, the antibacterial abilities of coconut oil can reduce staph bacteria on the skin, which helps prevent infection. This is important for people with eczema because patches of inflamed skin may crack and ooze, allowing bacteria to enter.
When applying it to your skin, choose virgin or cold-pressed coconut oil that’s processed without chemicals. Shop here for coconut oil.
4. Sunflower oil
Sunflower oil is extracted from sunflower seeds. Research has shown it protects the skin’s outer layer, which helps keep moisture in and bacteria out. Sunflower oil also hydrates skin and may relieve itching and inflammation.
Sunflower oil may be applied, undiluted, directly to the skin, preferably after bathing while skin is still damp. Get some online.
5. Witch hazel
Witch hazel is an astringent made from the bark and leaves of the witch hazel shrub. It has been used for centuries as a topical remedy for skin inflammation. Yet, research on witch hazel for eczema is scarce.
Still, the remedy is often applied to calm inflamed skin, dry-up oozing areas, and relieve itching. Buy witch hazel now.
6. Calendula cream
Calendula cream is an herbal remedy. Calendula has been used for centuries as a folk remedy to heal skin inflammation, burns, and cuts.
It’s thought to improve blood flow to areas of injury or inflammation, help hydrate skin, and help fight infection.
Research is lacking on the effectiveness of calendula for eczema. But, people claim it helps. Calendula cream is available over the counter. You can get some here.
7. Acupuncture and acupressure
The practice of acupuncture uses fine needles inserted at specific points in the body to alter the flow of energy. Although more research is needed, some believe that acupuncture may bring itch relief.
Acupressure is similar to acupuncture, except it uses the fingers and hands to apply pressure instead of needles. has shown acupressure might relieve eczema-related itchy skin.
8. Relaxation techniques
Stress is a common eczema trigger. Although it’s unclear exactly why, it’s believed that stress plays a role in developing inflammation. Learning to cope with stressful situations using relaxation techniques may help reduce eczema flare-ups.
Relaxation techniques that may help include:
meditation
cognitive behavioral therapy
deep breathing
visualization
music therapy
hypnosis
biofeedback
tai chi
yoga
Takeaway
If you live with eczema, it’s important to avoid anything that may irritate or dry your skin and cause a flare, including:
perfumed soap or body wash
soaps with dyes
wool clothing
tight clothing
pollen
animal dander
perfumed detergents
Food allergies are also a common cause of eczema, especially in children. Your symptoms might improve by eliminating common foods linked to eczema, like:
milk
eggs
wheat
peanuts
soy
A combination of self-care and the above natural remedies may be all you need to manage mild-to-moderate cases of eczema.
Severe eczema may require prescription topical steroids or antihistamines. Work with your doctor to create a treatment plan that’s best for you.
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on April 17, 2019 Recently Updated — Written by Annette McDermott
related stories
What Are the 7 Different Types of Eczema?
5 Treatments to Help People with Severe Eczema
How to Create an Eczema-Friendly Diet
I Almost Died from Eczema: How a Nondairy Diet Saved Me
Oatmeal Baths for Eczema Relief
READ THIS NEXT
What Are the 7 Different Types of Eczema?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, CNE, COI
There are seven types of eczema. Each type has its own identifying characteristics.
READ MORE
5 Treatments to Help People with Severe Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Eczema symptoms and effective therapies vary. Severe eczema often needs many treatments to ease the awful, stinging itch and discomfort. Severe eczema…
READ MORE
How to Create an Eczema-Friendly Diet
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Eczema is an inflammatory skin condition that can cause skin irritation, oozing blisters, and itchy rashes. It can also result in leathery skin…
READ MORE
I Almost Died from Eczema: How a Nondairy Diet Saved Me
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
When eczema got so bad that I almost died from the complications, a new diet saved my life.
READ MORE
Oatmeal Baths for Eczema Relief
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
The itch from eczema can be frustrating. One proven way to help relieve the itching of eczema is by soaking in a colloidal oatmeal bath. Discover the…
READ MORE
5 Options When Severe Eczema Stops Responding to Treatment
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Sometimes, severe cases of eczema can stop responding to your current treatment. If this happens, you don't need to give up. There are several others…
READ MORE
7 Questions to Ask Your Dermatologist About Managing Severe Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
If you're living with severe eczema and finding it difficult to get under control, you might be wondering what else you can do. Here are several…
READ MORE
Diet and Severe Eczema: Can What You Eat Affect Your Symptoms?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
If you're having trouble getting your severe eczema under control, you may want to look into your diet. Find out how an undiagnosed food allergy and…
READ MORE
7 Essential Oils for Severe Eczema
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Severe eczema can be difficult to get under control. Certain essential oils have anti-inflammatory properties that can reduce irritation. Here are…
READ MORE
13 Severe Eczema Triggers and How to Avoid Them
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Becoming aware of what triggers your eczema is an important step to get your condition under control. Certain foods, products, and substances can lead…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 119922 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582