NICE Guidelines for Fever in Children | medcaretips.com
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to secondary sidebar
Skip to footer
News
About
Team
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
medcaretips.com
Health, Medicine and Medical Care
Health
Presentation
Procedures
Diseases
You are here: Home / Child Health / NICE Guidelines for Fever in Children
NICE Guidelines for Fever in Children
January 26, 2018 by Dr Arun Pal Singh
In 2007 British journal of clinical practice published NICE guidelines on fever.
It contains practical advice on fever care.
Here is the set of guidelines
Use of Antipyretic Agents
These guidelines recommend agains use of antipyretic agents routinely with the sole aim of reducing body temperature in children with fever who are otherwise well.
So if the child is playful and not sick looking, fever medication may be held. Paracetamol and ibuprofen are commonly used antipyretic agents.
Similarly, antipyretic agents will not prevent febrile convulsions and should not be used specifically for this purpose.
Paracetamol and ibuprofen should not routinely be given alternately to children with fever.
The use of antipyretic agents should be considered in children with fever who appear distressed or unwell.
Either paracetamol or ibuprofen can be used to reduce temperature in children with fever.
Paracetamol and ibuprofen should not be administered at the same time to children with fever.
Tepid Sponging
Tepid sponging is not recommended for the treatment of fever. Children with fever should not be under dressed or over wrapped.
Building Confidence in Parents
It is a myth that is constantly maintained that the fevers can get too high and death ensues.
Another myth is that when the temperature gets too high, febrile convulsions may result.
These are myths and cause widespread anxiety about fever.
There is a concern or rather phobia about high temperature as it is believed that reducing the temperature makes the child feel more comfortable.
However, all fevers need not to be managed aggressively. Rather the need is to address the distress in the parents
Rather than advising to fear and fight a fever,the physician advice should support the fever process and, as such, build confidence in parents caring for their feverish child. This would enable the parents to cope with situation better and child is also not unduly stressed seeing concerned parents.
Get more Health & Medicine Articles like this
Subscribe & Get Updates sent to your email inbox.
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously
Spread the Knowledge
3
3
Shares
3
Filed Under: Child Health
Primary Sidebar
Supratrochlear Lymph Nodes
Supratrochlear nodes are one or two in number and located above the medial epicondyle of the humerus, medial to the basilic vein. [On the anteromedial … [Read More...] about Supratrochlear Lymph Nodes
Myelophthisic Anemia: Causes, Features, Lab diagnosis and Treatment
Myelophthisic anemia is a type of anemia that is caused due to the replacement of normal bone marrow by nonhematopoietic or abnormal cells.These … [Read More...] about Myelophthisic Anemia: Causes, Features, Lab diagnosis and Treatment
Home Pregnancy Test – Principle, Procedure, Accuracy and Interpretation
Home pregnancy test kit is a commercially available kit that women can … [Read More...] about Home Pregnancy Test – Principle, Procedure, Accuracy and Interpretation
Acrodynia or Pink Disease Symptoms and Treatment
Acrodynia is a condition that primarily affects young children and is … [Read More...] about Acrodynia or Pink Disease Symptoms and Treatment
Arterial Supply of Body – An Overview
Arteries are the large vessels that carry blood away from the … [Read More...] about Arterial Supply of Body – An Overview
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin – Structure, Function, Test and Uses
Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone produced during … [Read More...] about Human Chorionic Gonadotropin – Structure, Function, Test and Uses
Intravenous Cannulation – Indications and Procedure
Intravenous cannulation is a technique in which a cannula is placed … [Read More...] about Intravenous Cannulation – Indications and Procedure
Secondary Sidebar
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Blood and Blood Products
Blood and blood products are used for transfusion in various situations in medicine. Blood products … [Read More...] about Blood and Blood Products
Anatomy of Ear
The ear consists of three parts- external ear, middle ear and internal ear The External Ear The … [Read More...] about Anatomy of Ear
Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology or FNAC
Fine-needle aspiration cytology or FNAC is a diagnostic procedure used to investigate lumps or … [Read More...] about Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology or FNAC
Wound Scars – Formation, Types and Remedies
Scars is an area of fibrous tissue (fibrosis) that replace normal skin after injury. … [Read More...] about Wound Scars – Formation, Types and Remedies
Lungs Anatomy and Physiology
Lungs are balloon like structures in the body whose purpose is gas exchange.When we take our … [Read More...] about Lungs Anatomy and Physiology
Ads
Footer
Most Read Articles
Digital Clubbing or Nail Clubbing - Causes and Grading
Abnormal Breathing Patterns
Pulse Measurement - Normal and Abnormal
Like and Follow
Like and Follow
Copyright © 2019 · News Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
Health and Medicine Tips
Be Aware! Stay Healthy
Receive Health Articles right in your inbox!
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously