Evening primrose oil – the natural wonder ingredient
Get stronger and healthier hair
Nuviante
Homepage
Blog – Beauty
TestoUltra
Homepage
Blog – Sex Life
Useful Articles
Contact
March 3, 2016
Evening primrose oil – the natural wonder ingredient
L U R E Blog	acne, evening primrose oil, skin	0
Rich in essential fatty acids, evening primrose oil is used in cosmetics for its reputable skin boosting properties
Considered to be the best remedy for eczema and other complicated skin problems, evening primrose oil contains fatty acids, elements that are essential for skin health.
Extracted from evening primrose seeds (oenothera biennis) this oil is a gentle moisturizer that keeps a proper water balance inside the skin cells. By boosting blood circulation, it can be the perfect remedy for tired skin and eyes.
The fatty acids inside regenerate cellular membranes and act like carriers for important fat-soluble vitamins, such as vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and Vitamin K, all vital for keeping a healthy skin.
Alleviating acne
Common hormonal imbalances can lead to acne, an unpleasant skin condition usually difficult to be treated topically. The omega-6 fatty acids in the evening primrose oil help regulating hormonal levels, improve cellular functions and promote skin elasticity.
In terms of topical application, the gamma-Linoleic acid (GLA) enhances the epidermal barrier, dilutes the sebum production and calms acne flare-ups due to its astringent properties.
Daily use of evening primrose oil cosmetics accelerates acne’s healing process and improves the overall skin appearance, by cleaning and refreshing it.
Skin healer
Eczema, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis are just a few of a series of complex skin disorders that this natural oil can help alleviating. Evening primrose oil addresses pruritus, xerosis, scaliness, skin redness, firmness, roughness, itching, edema, rashes and converts to substances that reduce inflammation and cell growth, relieving the unwanted symptoms of various skin conditions.
Its high level of antioxidants fight oxidation effects and reduce fine lines, lighten dark circles and have remarkable anti-aging effects.
Apart from its skin uses, evening primrose oil has several other health benefits: it can be an excellent remedy for PMS and menopause syndrome and it can boost hair vitality and bone resistance, while lowering the risk of heart disease and cancer.
Related Posts
Blog
Nuviante Advanced System – for appealing glances and amazing hair
Blog
Reinvent the aspect of your hair with Nuviante Luxury Kit
Blog
Experience Nuviante System – for a fuller hair that shines
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Recent Posts
Nuviante Advanced System – for appealing glances and amazing hair
November 27, 2016
Reinvent the aspect of your hair with Nuviante Luxury Kit
November 26, 2016
Experience Nuviante System – for a fuller hair that shines
November 25, 2016
The interesting history of hair combs
November 25, 2016
Nuviante Advanced Hair Growth Formula – naturally beautiful hair
November 24, 2016
EXCLUSIVE OFFER!
Home
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Contact
© Nuviante 2019