Atopic Eczema and Dry Skin: 5 Tips and 1 Supplement
No electricity? No fear. Own “The Survival Doctor’s Complete Handbook.” Click here.
FacebookTwitterPinterestGoodReads YoutubeRss
Home
About
About
Pressroom
Newspaper Column
Book Reviews
Blog
By Topic
Where to Begin
Survival
Bones/Joints
Children
Critters
General
Infectious Disease
Skin
Cuts
Other Wounds
Rashes
Weather
Cold
Hot
General Health
Videos
Training Course
Books
Contact
No electricity? No fear. Own “The Survival Doctor’s Complete Handbook.” Click here.
Eczema and Dry Skin: 5 Simple Tips and 1 Soothing Supplement
Home/General/Eczema and Dry Skin: 5 Simple Tips and 1 Soothing Supplement
Previous	Next
Eczema and Dry Skin: 5 Simple Tips and 1 Soothing Supplement
Atopic eczema (also called atopic dermatitis or just eczema).
by James Hubbard, MD, MPH
Whether called eczema, atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema, or it’s just dry, itchy skin, it’s all going to be treated about the same when you can’t get medical help. And it does need to be treated. Because the problem can go beyond a mere nuisance if, in a typically unhygienic disaster, the wrong type of bacteria ever gets in one of those cracks or scratches and causes a bad skin infection.
The American Academy of Dermatology has a new post and video on tips for children with eczema (atopic dermatitis, aka atopic eczema). I think the tips are good for anyone with any sort of dry, itchy skin.
The Academy gives the usual advice, like not using scented soaps or lotions, washing new clothes before wearing them, and using mild detergents, but some of the tips that stand out for survival are:
To prevent cracked skin, use an unscented, thick cream or ointment twice a day. If you have time, trial and error is the best method to find which one works best.
Petroleum jelly (Vaseline) works well as a moisturizer by holding in the moisture already in your skin.
If you’re using a topical steroid on scaly spots, apply it first. Then cover it with the moisturizing cream or ointment.
To avoid infection, cut your child’s fingernails short and smooth. For bedtime consider gloves (white cotton is a good choice—no dyes to irritate).
If some areas look infected, try adding bleach to the bath water, but no more than twice a week. Mayo Clinic’s website recommends a half-cup of bleach to a full tub (forty gallons) of water. I calculate that out to about a half-teaspoon of bleach per gallon of water. Soak for five to ten minutes. Don’t dunk your head, and keep it out of your eyes. If you do get it in your eyes, you’ll know. It stings. Irrigate it out immediately for about five to ten minutes (or until the stinging goes away) with some of your drinking water.
The Academy of Dermatology doesn’t mention it, but aloe vera is another good, soothing moisturizer for eczema.
In addition, some studies have shown taking evening primrose oil can help eczema. They think it’s the gamma-linolenic acid in the primrose oil that helps, so you can try gamma-linolenic acid alone (500 mg twice a day) or the evening primrose oil capsules—3,000 to 4,000 mg in divided doses three or four times a day.* As always, ask your doctor before starting as either of these supplements can have interactions with other medications. And I would never start any supplement or herb on your child before checking with his/her doctor.
What about your family? Does anyone have trouble with dry, itchy skin? What have you found that works?
Photo by Care_SMC on Flickr.
*Disclosure: The links to the supplements are for examples only, not endorsements. They’re also affiliate links, meaning that someone associated with this website will receive a commission if you buy anything through them.
(Subscribe to updates below.)
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google
Email
More
LinkedIn
Reddit
Tumblr
By James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.| 2016-05-03T00:08:50+00:00	December 20th, 2012|General|35 Comments
About the Author: James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Dr. James Hubbard is the best-selling author of five books, including his latest, The Survival Doctor's Complete Handbook. His expertise and down-to-earth style have made him one of the foremost survival medicine experts in the country. Through books; lectures; an online training course; and his popular website, TheSurvivalDoctor.com, Dr. Hubbard shares information about how to deal with medical problems when getting expert care is impossible. His evidence-based tips are a combination of modern medicine, makeshift treatments and Grandma’s home remedies.
Read My Books
The Survival Doctor’s Complete Handbook: What to Do When Help Is NOT on the Way	Kari Sharp	2016-05-09T16:48:45+00:00
Permalink
The Survival Doctor’s Complete Handbook: What to Do When Help Is NOT on the Way
Duct Tape 911: The Many Amazing Medical Things You Can Do to Tape Yourself Together	Kari Sharp	2016-05-09T16:49:16+00:00
Permalink
Duct Tape 911: The Many Amazing Medical Things You Can Do to Tape Yourself Together
Living Ready Pocket Manual: First Aid	Kari Sharp	2016-05-09T16:49:56+00:00
Permalink
Living Ready Pocket Manual: First Aid
The Survival Doctor’s Guide to Wounds	Kari Sharp	2016-05-09T16:50:40+00:00
Permalink
The Survival Doctor’s Guide to Wounds
The Survival Doctor’s Guide to Burns	Kari Sharp	2016-05-09T16:51:18+00:00
Permalink
The Survival Doctor’s Guide to Burns
Related Posts
Permalink
Where I’ve Been—Plus, Sale on Training Course
September 12th, 2017 | Comments Off on Where I’ve Been—Plus, Sale on Training Course
Permalink
3 Reasons I Don’t Teach Surgery—Even to Survivalists
August 9th, 2016 | 27 Comments
Permalink
How You Could Save Lives in a Mass Casualty Situation
July 20th, 2016 | 6 Comments
Permalink
Top-10 Survival Gift Ideas for Father’s Day
June 6th, 2016 | Comments Off on Top-10 Survival Gift Ideas for Father’s Day
Permalink
The Survival Doctor’s Complete Handbook Excerpt: How to Remove a Fish Hook
May 17th, 2016 | 6 Comments
←
Newer Comments →
Dave, RN
Step 1 should be: Stop eating wheat and processed foods.
http://www.livestrong.com/article/289954-wheat-grain-eczema/
http://www.marksdailyapple.com/forum/thread20496.html
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Dave.
Guy Cherisol
my 8 yr old have eczema since she was born . all her body is cover accept her face. strong allergic reaction to certain food just by being in her presence, like peanut. modern medecine have give relief butheal what natural herbs you can advice to treat this eczema
James Hubbard, MD, MPH
See the last part of the post. Also, aloe vera gel applied to the rash might help
Grace
Moisturize with pure organic, unprocessed cocoanut oil twice daily, esp at night. This oil is good for all persons both inside as food and on the skin as it has antibacterial, antiviral and anti fungal properties. Read Bruce Fife’s book Cocoanut Cures. Grace RN
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Grace.
Nancy
Grace, Honestly, this is NOT a spell check on my part, as God knows I misspell plenty. (actually, I like to say my keyboard keys jump around from time to time) And I don’t think it’s productive to call everyone on typos, but I am very interested in what you wrote. I love and use coconut oil, and in the past, I used to use (and was told by a Dr. to use) cocoa butter. You are saying cocoanut, and I am wondering if you mean coconut, or if you are talking about cocoa processed a new way? I sincerely thank you for a clarification, as I love using these wonderful products.
Wendy Knight-Nutty
Both of my sons had scaly, itchy spots as babies. Once at an ER visit for a high fever, the doctor on call told me put a few drops of pure lavender oil in with every bath. It worked! We also use a humidifier in the winter.
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Wendy.
Nancy
Oh, I’ll never forget this. My sister had it so bad on her fingers and hands..with those tiny little blisters,that itch and crust, and itch some more. Her Dr. way back then, finally told her to soak her hands in apple cider vinegar twice a day. It stung so so bad, I remember her crying while they soaked for 15 minutes. Then a gentle rinse, and pat dry. In less than a week, it was gone, and has never returned…35 years ago now. My husband suffers from this same thing, and gets all kinds of meds, creams, oils, and nothing works to keep it away. He knows about the vinegar, but to date is afraid to try it! Don’t know if that;s a cure all, but it sure worked for my sister!
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Nancy.
Dena
Sounds like dishydrotic eczema. I soak my hands in hot vinegar whenever it crops up. It stings if the skin is already broken, but if you’re just dealing with the little blisters it doesn’t. I pat dry and apply a homemade salve (oils, beeswax and essential oils: tea tree to help fight infections, lavender to heal). My trigger is stress, but other causes are typically a skin allergy or too much water exposure.
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Dena.
Dena
Oops, I spelled that wrong. It is dyshidrosis or dyshidrotic eczema, or pompholyx. One time I applied zinc oxide (from diaper ointment) to dry out some vesicles. Worked like a charm.
Lisa
As a child, I suffered terribly with Eczema. The heat was my worst enemy, followed by the hives and itching. Doctors used to treat my Eczema using Hydrocortisone HCL ointment or cream.
Eventually, my symptoms of the malady eased and for years I didn’t any episodes. Then (I don’t remember when) I started to experience problems again. A wonderful dermatologist prescribed what I call a “miracle” cream, Temovate (sorry, I don’t recall the generic name). It can only be used for a short time and must be discontinued before using it again.
Now, I tend to have only one or two episodes a year but the problem is minor considered to what I suffered as a child.
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Lisa. Both Hydrocortisone and Temovate are a steroid ointments or creams, but Temovate is much stronger.
Sonja, RN
Dave,
I agree from experience. I always had a few eczematous patches, but as I got older it became more widespread. I used all kinds of things on these areas but nothing ever helped. I quit eating gluten because of fibromyalgia. Not only did the fibromyalgia disappear, but so did the eczema. Now, if I unknowingly ingestion gluten, I ache all over and a few eczema spots show
back up. Takes a few weeks to get it out of my system and to get back to normal.
Thanks,
Sonja
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Thanks, Sonja.
Gin
We’ve been struggling with eczema on our 1 year old since he was about 2 months old. While moisturizers work for his recurring ankle rash, his cheeks have been a real problem. He would itch and scratch his cheeks until they were oozing, and every time we traveled any distance in the heat, it got much worse. It improved greatly when he began swimming in our local pool — that’s when we realized that the drying effects of the pool water seemed to help his cheeks more than moisturizing. We’re now using witch hazel on his cheeks daily, which seems to be working well — no more oozing rashes, but still the occasional flare-up.
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Great that you’ve figured it out, Gin. That’s what it takes sometimes.
Pingback: Atopic Eczema and Dry Skin: 5 Tips and 1 Supplement()
samuel
DEAR James Hubbard,
thank you,for your support and concern about this rash/atopic thing on my hands.
im feling a little better everytime i use these tips
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
You’re welcome, Samuel. I’m glad you’re doing better.
IAMAWSOME(SAMUEL)
DEAR James Hubbard,
my skin is slowly healing
thank you
James Hubbard, M.D., M.P.H.
Great Samuel.
←
Newer Comments →
Caution!
Use the information on this site AT YOUR OWN RISK, and read the disclaimer.
New to the Blog?
Get Started Here
Popular Posts
Popular
Recent
Comments
8 Tips for How to Treat a Knee Injury and How to Know If It’s Bad
September 27th, 2012
6 Clues Your Ankle is Broken, Not Sprained
February 4th, 2013
How to Know If You Really Have a Concussion
September 13th, 2012
Your Child Has a Rash. Do You Know What to Do?
June 26th, 2012
How a Felon Could Make You Lose a Finger
February 23rd, 2012
Where I’ve Been—Plus, Sale on Training Course
September 12th, 2017
Hurricane-Survival Review
October 6th, 2016
3 Reasons I Don’t Teach Surgery—Even to Survivalists
August 9th, 2016
Hey, Hollywood, Leave the Bullet Alone!
August 3rd, 2016
How to Treat Gunshot Wounds When No Help Is Coming
July 27th, 2016
AstraHealth says:
Really informative post thanks for sharing
hemant thapa says:
Please help
hemant thapa says:
I'm having cough problem and then at night fever rises up to…
Gayle says:
Doesn’t anyone have an answer to this mystery rash? My grandson came…
Karen Hicks Swift says:
I know this is an old stream but I thought I may…
Search by Disorder
Allergies
Asthma
Athelete’s Foot
Blood Pressure, High
Cholesterol, High
Cold Sores
Depression
Diabetes
Eczema
Gout
Headache
Jock Itch
Panic Attacks
Sinus Infections
Yeast Infections
Filter by Topic
allergies antibiotics bites bleeding books broken bone christmas colds controversy cough CPR cut nerve cuts diabetes drowning emergency supplies finger flood flu Frostbite garlic gunshot head injury heart heatstroke herb and food remedies holidays hypothermia infection insects knee lacerations long-term-disaster diseases low body temperature media medications mental health mosquitoes pain parasites quiz rash sprain The Survival Doctor news videos
Available Now!
Get Your Copy
Disclaimer
Copyright
Privacy Policy
Comments Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact
© 2016 The Survival Doctor | All Rights Reserved | Website design by Get Sharp, Inc.
FacebookTwitterPinterestGoodReads YoutubeRss
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.