DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) for Moderate-to-Severe Teen Eczema
A prescription medication for people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis that is not well
controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies.
Patient Prescribing
Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
For Healthcare Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Other Condition
WHAT IS ATOPIC
DERMATITIS?
ABOUT DUPIXENT
DUPIXENT SUPPORT
SIGN UP
For Healthcare Professionals
ECZEMA:
UNDER CONTROL
HER DANCE MOVES: NOT SO MUCH
HER DATA LIMIT: NOT SO MUCH
NOISE LEVEL: NOT SO MUCH
HER DANCE MOVES: NOT SO MUCH
DUPIXENT is an innovation in the treatment of moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) for teens ages 12-17. It’s a treatment option that helps control the symptoms so your teen’s eczema doesn’t hold them back.
TAKE CONTROL Actor portrayal;
individual results vary
Why DUPIXENT
May Be Right for
Your Teen
DUPIXENT is a prescription medication and the first biologic approved to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
DUPIXENT is an injectible prescription medicine used by teens ages 12-17 in clinical studies. You can view the results of the clinical study, and see the results of patients who were administered DUPIXENT vs. those who received a placebo.
Treats individuals aged 12 years and older with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema)
Continuously treats your teen’s skin, even when it looks clear
Injectable prescription medicine that’s not a steroid or cream
SEE THE DATA
Actor portrayal;
individual results vary
Is Eczema Different Than Atopic Dermatitis?
There are many forms of eczema, with atopic dermatitis being the most common. Learn why what’s going on underneath your teen’s skin is just as important as what is happening on top of it. See the role inflammation plays in your teen’s symptoms.
GET THE FACTS
Let DUPIXENT MyWay® Help
There’s no question that uncontrolled moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis can be daunting, and there are plenty of questions about how to treat it. That’s why we’ve created the DUPIXENT MyWay program. You’ll get:
Nurse Educators offering tips, tools, and resources
Supplemental injection training online or in-person
Ongoing nursing support for DUPIXENT available by phone 24/7
Help scheduling deliveries and monthly prescription refills
Exclusive support and resources about DUPIXENT
GET MORE INFO
Sign Up
Sign up for emails to get the latest news and information about DUPIXENT.
Does your teen have a prescription for DUPIXENT? Yes, they have started taking DUPIXENT. Yes, but they have not started taking DUPIXENT yet. No.
First Name Please provide a first name.
Last Name Please provide a last name.
Email Address Please enter a valid email address Please provide a valid email address.
ZIP Code Please provide a valid ZIP code Please provide a Zip Code.
By submitting this form, I agree to receive information and resources about DUPIXENT. View Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.
I certify that I am at least 18 years old.
Success!
You are now signed up for emails. Check your inbox for a verification email.
SIGN UP
Close
Message
OK
Connect With a Specialist Who Treats Eczema
Consult with your teen’s doctor and then use this tool to easily find nearby specialists with experience in treating teens and adults with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanofi US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
Continue
Cancel
US-DAD-14969
Sanofi US and Regeneron do not endorse or recommend any particular physician, and search results do not include a comprehensive list of doctors in your area.
Important Safety Information and Indication
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indication
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi Biotechnology.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DAD-14969
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DAD-14969
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
Privacy Policy
Legal Disclaimer
© 2002-2018 sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Legal Disclaimer | Contact Us
This site is intended for use by U.S. residents only.
US-DAD-14969 Last Update: March 2019