Hair Loss in Men – DermMatch UK
Customer Service Tel: 01625 533588 Sign in or Create an Account
Search
Cart 0
Search
Home
Shop
How it Works
Success Stories
About Hair Loss
Blog
FAQ
Contact
Sign in
Create an Account
Menu
Cart 0
Home › News › Hair Loss in Men
Hair Loss in Men
85% of men will have major hair thinning by the time they’re 50. And while hair loss doesn’t harm your health, it can certainly cause emotional stress. Male hair loss is almost always hereditary and usually starts in your 20’s. While hair loss usually occurs slowly over 15-25, in some cases the process can take as little as 5 years.
How Hair Loss Works
Occasionally, hair loss in men can be caused by medication, stress, or a dietary imbalance. Most of the time, however, the cause of men’s hair loss is androgenic hair loss, also known as male pattern baldness.
So what causes hair thinning in men? During androgenic hair loss, the male hormone (DHT) causes hair follicles to shrink. Eventually, the hair follicles will shrink so much that they can no longer sustain hair, leading to hair loss.
The extent to which your hair is affected by DHT is all due to genetics. Hair loss tends to begin at the temples and crown. Eventually, these areas will meet causing the horseshoe pattern. Hair loss is tracked in the medical community by the Norwood scale.
Men’s Hair Loss Treatment Options
It’s easier to keep the hair that you have rather than try to grow it back. This is why it’s important to catch hair loss as early as possible and seek treatment right away. Also, be wary of miracle products. While there are some treatments for hair loss, there is no cure.
Minoxidil
Minoxidil is an FDA-approved over-the-counter topical treatment for hair loss. Minoxidil is the active ingredient in Rogaine. About 40% of men using Minoxidil experience hair regrowth after 3-6 months. Side effects can include skin irritation at the application site and unwanted hair growth in other areas. However, the effects aren’t permanent. Once you stop using Minoxidil, you will lose your hair again.
Finasteride
Finasteride, more commonly known as Propecia, is an oral medication sometimes prescribed for hair loss. The medication works by blocking production of DHT, the hormone that causes male pattern hair loss. Finasteride slows hair loss, and can provide around 30% improvement in hair loss after 6 months. However, Finasteride can cause unpleasant side effects. As with Minoxidil, the effects will end if you stop taking the medication.
Hair Transplant
A hair transplant is the only sure way to restore hair. The procedure has improved drastically in recent years, with Follicular Unit Extraction (FUE) becoming the norm. In this procedure, the surgeon extracts follicles from a donor source and implants them into areas of hair loss. The donor source is typically the back and sides of the head where hair is not affected by DHT. However, if there is not enough available hair on the head, some surgeons are actually able to use body hair as a donor source. As with any surgery, there are risks involved. Hair transplants are also quite expensive, so they’re not an option for everyone.
Scalp Concealer - DermMatch
A simple way to instantly reverse the appearance of hair loss is to use DermMatch. DermMatch can be very helpful as part of the recovery since DermMatch instantly disguises hair loss. DermMatch is loaded with botanical ingredients that coat every existing hair shaft, making thin hairs stand up and spread out for spectacular fullness. DermMatch also colours your scalp in areas of thin hair and small bald areas, making the scalp disappear. See here for some impressive before and after photos.
Remember, if you’re losing your hair, you’re in good company. Hair loss is a something that most men struggle with in their lives. Besides, hair doesn’t make the man. Whether you choose to treat your hair loss, disguise it with a new ‘do, or rock a shaved head, confidence is the best look of all!
Share this post
Share 0 Tweet 0 +1
Latest Posts
Hair Loss in Men
85% of men will have major hair thinning by the time they’re 50. And while hair loss doesn’t harm your health, it can certainly cause emotional stress. Male...
Apr. 15, 2019 | Hair Loss
Female Pattern Baldness and Treatments
It is normal for women to shed some hair each day, but when bald patches or thinning occurs, it may be due to female pattern baldness. Hair is...
Apr. 09, 2019 | Hair Loss
Follow DermMatch
Recent Articles
Hair Loss in Men
Hair Loss
Female Pattern Baldness and Treatments
Hair Loss
Do You Have Telogen Effluvium?
Hair Loss
Do Men Need Hair Conditioner?
Health
Pregnancy and Hair Loss
Hair Extensions and Hair Loss
Featured Products
DermMatch PLATINUM BLONDE Hair Loss Concealer (40g)
£34.95
DermMatch WHITE Hair Loss Concealer (40g)
£34.95
DermMatch RED Hair Loss Concealer (40g)
£34.95
Quick Links
Search
About Us
Returns Policy
Privacy Notice
Terms and Conditions
Get In Touch
Contact the friendly customer service team on 01625 533588 if you have any questions.
dermmatch.co.uk brought to you by Saks Medical & Cosmetic Ltd
Grove Chambers Green Lane Wilmslow SK9 1LD
Lifestyle Pharmacy
Twitter
Facebook
Newsletter
© 2019 DermMatch UK
Powered by Shopify
american express
maestro
master
paypal
shopify pay
visa
{{name}}
{{variation}}
+ -
{{price}}
Remove
{{/items}}
Subtotal {{totalPrice}}
-
-