Nutritional Supplements - SOUTH LAKE TAHOE CHIROPRACTIC DR. JOSHUA WELCH
Safe Haven
Directions and Calendar
Services
Injury Help
Dr. Josh's Blog
Exercises
Child Development Stages and Neurological Milestones
Svaroopa Yoga
Nutritional Supplements
Click here to Save.
​Safe Haven carries more than just "vitamins". We provide nutritional supplements made with high-quality ingredients made to achieve your optimal health. Supplements are an easy and effective way to get the daily recommended intake of essentials vitamins, minerals, and other important nutrients.
Pure Encapsulations
Professional Formulas
Nordic Naturals
Dr. Mecola
Seroyal/Genestra
Jigsaw Health
Herb Pharm
Jarrow Formulas
Many More...
Shop at our Online Wellness Center anytime!
Patient Access Code: safehaven
https://www.npscript.com/drtahoe
Cut CANCER Risk by 50%!
Selenium has been shown in studies to cut your chances of dying from Cancer by an amazing 50 percent.
Why is selenium so powerful against Cancer?
Selenium is a co-factor and it works by re-using disease-fighting antioxidant enzymes, 1 of them being glutathione, which neutralizes damage from free radicals and so much more....
Studies have shown that adequate levels of selenium protect against two of the most common forms of cancer: prostate and colorectal cancer. But low selenium levels are also associated with a two to threefold increase in overall cancer risk, particularly cancers of the:
1.bladder
2.esophagus
3. lung
4. stomach
5.liver
.....and low levels of selenium can cause a shocking 8-fold increase in risk for thyroid cancer.
Selenium stimulates the activity of antioxidants in healthy tissue, protecting it from damage by free radicals. It also promotes repair of damaged DNA, curtailing new cancer development.
*In one clinical study, researchers found that sodium selenite caused patients with aggressive head and neck cancers to experience heightened activity of the immune system, substantially increasing the destruction of tumor cells. Sodium selenite can increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy – by up to 50 percent.
*In a 2000 study of Chinese men living in high-risk areas for liver cancer, 500 mcg of selenium daily for three years reduced the occurrence of new cases of liver cancer by 50 percent.
Which selenium do I take daily? Get 20% off today.
https://www.npscript.com/drtahoe/s?Dy=1&Nty=1&Ntk=All&N=0&Ntt=Jigsaw%20Basic&tpsearch=true
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11860943
https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/L-selenomethionine#section=Drug-and-Medication-Information
Melatonin synchronizes the brain and nervous system and biological functions to most of the internal organs including: fetal adrenal gland, pancreas, liver, kidney, heart, lung, fat, gut, etc. Then, various physiological effects of melatonin are reviewed, including detoxification of free radicals and antioxidant actions, bone formation and protection, reproduction, and cardiovascular, immune or body mass regulation. Given these physiological effects, potential benefits of melatonin use is especially useful with regard to brain or gastrointestinal protection, psychiatric disorders, cardiovascular diseases and oncostatic effects. Melatonin has many diverse effects with clinical, preventative and therapeutic applications.
https://www.npscript.com/drtahoe/melatonin-20mg/VN0128PAR
Curr Neuropharmacol. 2016 Dec 28. Melatonin: pharmacology, functions and therapeutic benefits.
POWERFUL at Killing Cancer! Why?
.....because the underlying CAUSE of almost every Cancer is Inflammation!
.....and there are over 5,000 peer reviewed studies proving this!
So why hasn't your doctor prescribed this? (because they don't study Nutrition, they study drugs)
*Curcumin is an anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-microbial, and anti-carcinogenic herb that has been shown to:
1. REVERSE the tendency for bad genes to express
2. Promotes APOPTOSIS (cancer cell death)
3. Reduces the inflammatory cancer microenvironment
4. Blocks estrogen mimicking chemicals
5. Stops angiogenesis (development of new blood supply for the tumor)
6. Increases Immunity (When researchers looked at the lining of the intestine after ingestion of curcumin, they found that CD4+ T-helper and B type immune cells were greater in number.)
.....and one of the most POWERFUL things Curcumin can do that NO chemotherapy or radiation can do is TARGET CANCER stem cells and this is where ALL cancer begins.
I use Jigsaw Basic. Order today and receive 20% off.
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started
Safe Haven
Directions and Calendar
Services
Injury Help
Dr. Josh's Blog
Exercises
Child Development Stages and Neurological Milestones
Svaroopa Yoga
Nutritional Supplements