The Positive and Negative Effects of Birth Control Pills
Skip to content
Home
Blog Posts
Page Listing
Advertising Disclosure & Disclaimer
About Us
Contact Info
Login
The Positive and Negative Effects of Birth Control Pills
January 11, 2018 December 29, 2017 by Reprint
By: Michael Corvin
Birth control pills are the most commonly used contraceptive method, followed by the condom and the withdrawal method. It is a daily pill that contains hormones aimed to change the way the body works and limit, if not eliminate, the chances of pregnancy.
It is usually a combination of the female hormones estrogen and progesterone. When combined in the right balance, these hormones prevent ovulation. If a woman does not ovulate, she doesn’t release an egg cell, and therefore nothing will be fertilized. Birth control pills also help thicken the cervical mucus lining that slows down sperm movement from the vaginal canal into the uterus if an egg has already been released. Furthermore, pills also affect the uterine lining, making it difficult for an egg to attach itself onto the wall of the uterus.
What benefits can I get from using birth control pills?
The effects are reversible. Unlike some other birth control methods, the birth control pill can be stopped at any given time that you are ready to conceive.
It aides in menstrual regulation. This is most beneficial to women with irregular menstrual period: from none at all (amenorrhea), to too many (polymenorrhea), or too little (oligomenorrhea). This also helps decrease heavy blood flow. Birth control pills help the body mimic a regular 28-day cycle.
It helps treat benign ovarian cyst. Functional ovarian cysts do not form without ovulation. For this reason alone, the pills ovulation-stopping effect helps decrease the risk of developing functional ovarian cysts.
It decreases menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea). Birth control pills decrease cramping by decreasing prostaglandin production.
It decreases the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Because birth control pills prevent ovulation, it also eliminates the pain experienced during ovulation within the menstrual cycle.
It decreases the risk of ovarian, endometrial, cervical and colorectal cancer. Certain cancer cells rely on naturally occurring sex hormones estrogen and progesterone to develop and grow. As pills alter the level of estrogen and progesterone in a woman’s body, it stunts the growth and development of these carcinogenic cells.
It decreases the risk of osteoporosis. The hormones regulated while taking birth control pills help reduce risks of getting osteoporosis.
It decreases the risk of tubal (Ectopic) pregnancy. Because birth control pills work primarily by suppressing ovulation, they effectively prevent ectopic pregnancy as well as normal pregnancy.
What are the side effects of using birth control pills?
It is tedious. It needs to be taken every day at the exact same time. Women with busy schedules might have some problems following the strict dosing schedule.
Decreased enjoyment of sex. Some women experience a decreased interest in sex or a decreased ability to have orgasms.
Risk of experiencing depression. The change in hormone level may affect chemicals in the brain, causing depression to birth control pill users.
There may be more advantages and side effects of using birth control pills that was not included in the list above. However, now that you’ve learned of some of the benefits and risks of using oral contraceptive pills, it is up to you to decide whether or not you are going to use it. Of course, before making any decisions regarding this matter, consult your physician if this birth control method is the best for you. Do not forget, though, using oral contraceptive pills will not prevent you from acquiring sexually transmitted diseases (STD) or HIV.
UberArticles.com
About the Author
Did you find this article very informative? If you want to read more on health related topics then visit us at Buy Soma.
Please follow and like us:
Categories PregnancyTags pregnancy tips	Post navigation
Effects of Daycare on Children
Choosing a Baby Monitor
Search
Menu
Babies & Toddlers
Baby Showers
Beauty Secrets
Car Tips
Computers
Divorce
Employment
Finance & Business
Fishing
Floating Duck House
Food & Recipes
FREE eBooks
Games
Health Issues
Insurance
Internet Marketing
Landscaping & Gardening
Metaphysics
Money Making Opportunities
Parenting Issues
Parties & Events
Pets
Photography
Pregnancy & Motherhood
Relationships
Scrapbooking & Crafts
Self-Help & Improvement
Sports, Fitness & Activities
Technology
Teens & Young People
Website & Web Design
Weddings
Weight Loss & Dieting
Home
Search
LINKS
Fairylicious Designs on Etsy
Baby Diaper Cake Chatter Blog
Baby Diaper Cake Chatter Facebook
Baby Diaper Cake Chatter on Twitter
Sitemap
AVAILABLE ON ETSY!
OUR SPONSORS
Home
Blog Posts
Page Listing
Advertising Disclosure & Disclaimer
About Us
Contact Info
Login
Copyright 2009 – 2018 – Crackerbarrel Corner.com – All rights reserved!
© 2019 • Powered by GeneratePress
Scroll back to top
error: Content is protected !!