Migraines - Share The Wealth
Share The Wealth
Search
Home | Site map | About | Contact
Self-Sufficiency Is The Key To Empowerment And Freedom
Share The Wealth by Chris Gupta
Share The Wealth
News Blog
Site Map
Control tactics
Electromedicine
Energy solutions
Environmental poisoning
Health through Nutrition
Historic biographies
Oxidative Therapies
Practical Health
Reviews
Save the environment
Take Action
The Nature of Government
Third world plundering
Vaccinations
Articles Archive
See also:
Communication Agents:
Ivan Ingrilli
Sepp Hasslberger
Tom Atlee
Emma Holister
Rinaldo Lampis
Steve Bosserman
CA Journal
Robin Good's
Web sites:
March 02, 2009
Print this article
Migraines
At 09:36 2009-02-11, Gerry wrote:
Hi Chris
Could you please give me the remedy for migraine headaches, my wife gets these consistently!! You had mentioned organic yogurt mixed with what I forget?? Thank-you
------------------
Hi Gerry,
Here is a little compilation (not complete by any means) of remedies:
Making the Magnesium-Migraine Link
In addition to magnesium, get some live organic yogurt and add a capsule of Vitamin B100 complex plus add 100 mg of B2. Make sure it is not a tablet. Mix it thoroughly and let it sit overnight you can leave outside the fridge if you like, then eat it next morning. After a couple of weeks you could try removing the B2 as it already contained in the B100 complex.
One of the big problems is the ability to absorb magnesium. Often it not sufficient to just take any magnesium supplement. You need to try different types until you find one that is suitable to you.
"when taking magnesium for migraine don't buy a calcium/magnesium blend. If you're taking a calcium supplement, take it at another time of day. It can interfere with the benefits of the magnesium for migraine."
See: So just what is the magnesium migraines connection?
You can also get magnesium form pure cocoa....
"Epidemiological studies have reported that Western diets are often deficient in Mg. We investigated the ability of a cocoa-derived product, used in some European countries as a dietary complement added to milk, to aid recovery from chronic Mg deficiency in rats. The animals were divided into three groups, each of which received a different amount of dietary Mg. Rats in the Mg-deficient (D) group received an Mg-deficient diet (0.225 g Mg/kg food) during 8 weeks. In the cocoa-supplement group (D + CC), the rats consumed the Mg-deficient diet for 5 weeks, and were then switched for 3 further weeks to the same diet supplemented with 3% (wt/wt) cocoa product, so that the Mg content of the diet was 0.27 g/kg food. Rats in the control group (C) were given the same diet as in group D, except that the amount of Mg was 0.56 g Mg/kg food. We measured the concentration of Mg, Ca and P from ten rats in plasma, whole blood, skeletal muscle, heart, kidney and femur in rats that were fed the diets for 35, 42, 49 or 56 days. In animal fed the cocoa-supplemented diet (D + CC) significant improvements were found between days 35 and 56 in the alterations in Mg, Ca and P caused by Mg deficiency in all tissues studied. On day 56, kidney and bone concentrations of Mg and Ca had returned to normal. Our findings show that the habitual use of the cocoa product as a dietary supplement favors correction of the negative effects of long-term feeding with a diet moderately deficient in Mg."
"One very easy method of doing this involves cocoa. I'm not talking chocolate bars like Reeses or Mars or Nestle Crunch, but real baking cocoa. A bar of 80% cocoa works best. Take only a piece of the bar and bite into it; you will feel instant relief and feel better about the world. However, only take a piece. Cocoa at that amount can become very addicting in its own right, so less is definitely more here. That said, the results are great. You feel better, your mood improves and that headache goes away."
Extracted from: What's the best way to cure a headache?
See also: Dark Chocolate is Good for Your Heart
More on migraines:
A 55-year-old woman is in search of a cure for migraines, which she's suffered from since she was five years old. In the past month or so they have become more frequent than ever, and she's wondering if there are vitamins or homeopathic options that have worked for others.
Several readers recommend the herb feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium). Try adding a couple of feverfew leaves to your sandwich, or take 50-140 mg/day of granulated or powdered extract in divided doses. However, WDDTY's Medical Detective Harald Gaier notes you shouldn't use it for more than five months, or if you are taking anticoagulant (blood-thinning) medications, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or hypersensitive to the Asteraceae plant family.
Another suggestion is the homeopathic remedy Nat Mur. According to David, it doesn't cure migraines but does significantly relieve the condition. Annie also found relief with this remedy: "It was brilliant. So brilliant that I decided to train as a homeopath myself!"
Terri from the US used to suffer from migraines three times a week, but now she only gets them about once every two months. She offers the following advice: "First of all, stop taking any over-the-counter meds because they have a rebound effect and can actually be causing the headaches. You will probably experience a 72-hour migraine as your body adjusts, but you will be headache-free afterwards. Also, make sure you drink 6-8 glasses of water daily. Many migraines are caused from dehydration. 1000 mg of magnesium per day also helps, along with vitamin B2. Stay away from red wines and aged cheeses. Also, check your posture. Many migraines are caused by muscle contractions from the trapezius muscle. Massage therapy on the shoulders and neck may help. Take flax oil and fish oil to reduce inflammation in the tissues. And try to walk or exercise 3-5 times a week- it really helps!"
Other recommendations include acupuncture, chiropractic therapy and the Feingold diet. Jane's husband tried this diet 30 years ago and he hasn't had a migraine since!
Extracted from: WDDTY e-News Broadcast - 13 June 2006
Last but not least is the use of electromedicine.
MIGRAINE HEADACHES PEMF CLINICAL STUDY
Headache. 1998 Mar;38(3):208-13
Initial exploration of pulsing electromagnetic fields (PEMF) for treatment of migraine.
Sherman RA, Robson L, Marden LA.
Service of Orthopedic Surgery, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, Wash. 98431, USA.
Two studies were conducted during which 23 patients with chronic migraine were exposed to pulsing electromagnetic fields over the inner thigh. In an open study, 11 subjects kept a 2-week headache log before and after 2 to 3 weeks of exposure to pulsing electromagnetic fields for 1 hour per day, 5 days per week. The number of headaches per week decreased from 4.03 during the baseline period to 0.43 during the initial 2-week follow-up period and to 0.14 during the extended follow-up which averaged 8.1 months. In a double-blind study, 9 subjects kept a 3-week log of headache activity and were randomly assigned to receive 2 weeks of real or placebo pulsing electromagnetic field exposures as described above. They were subsequently switched to 2 weeks of the other mode, after which they kept a final 3-week log. Three additional subjects in the blind study inadvertently received half-power pulsing electromagnetic field exposures. The 6 subjects exposed to the actual device first showed a change in headache activity from 3.32 per week to 0.58 per week. The 3 subjects exposed to only half the dose showed no change in headache activity. Large controlled studies should be performed to determine whether this intervention is actually effective.
Publication Types:
· Clinical Trial
· Randomized Controlled Trial
PMID: 9563212 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
Those interested in using PEMF could try pulsing electromagnetic fields over the inner thigh using the
Build a Low cost & simple Magnetic Pulser
Chris Gupta
posted by Chris Gupta on Monday March 2 2009
Print this article
TrackBack
URL of this article:
http://www.newmediaexplorer.org/chris/2009/03/02/migraines.htm
Related Articles
Artificial Water Fluoridation: Off To A Poor Start / Fluoride Injures The Newborn
Please watch this short 5 minute video: Little Things Matter: The Impact of Toxins on the Developing Brain Toxins such as Arsenic, Lead, Mercury, Aluminum and other known and unknown chemicals, that are often above the legal limits, are deliberately added to our water to manage the disposal of toxic industrial waste chemicals under the pretense of "safe and effective" for water fluoridation mantra.Knowing and acting on the above should... [read more]
December 30, 2014 - Chris Gupta
Drinking Water Fluoridation is Genotoxic & Teratogenic
This paper by Prof. Joe Cummins is a very important 5 minute delegation made to London Ontario Canada "Civic Works Committee" public participation meeting on January 25, 2012 on fluoride*. While a bit technical it is short and easy to grasp. A must read as it goes to the heart of the matter regarding the well established toxicity of fluoride which is well in all scientific circles even before water... [read more]
February 06, 2012 - Chris Gupta
Democracy At Work? - PPM On Fluoride
Here is a commentary on the recent (Jan, 25th, 2011) Public Participation Meeting (PPM) on Fluoride in the City of London, Ontario. The meeting started with a strong pro fluoride stance form the City engineer. His lack of knowledge on chemistry of the toxic wastes used to fluoridate water could embarrass even a high school student never mind his own profession. He blatantly violated his "duty to public welfare" as... [read more]
January 29, 2012 - Chris Gupta
Readers' Comments
Several options for migraine sufferers straight from PBS health program by Mainstream docs no less! Fish oils, Coenzyme Q-10, Butterburr (Petadolex)is a preventative herb. Also there is Nanomagnesium which is absorbed directly from gut without side effects of other oral magnesium products.See above URL for info about nanomagnesium. You can order from there or through globallight.net.
Posted by: Marge on April 28, 2009 11:07 PM
Migraine should always first be investigated by your own gp. My wife suffered with this and she used Guarana, available from good health food stores. Guarana is a native vine from the Brazialian Amazon. It is claimed to relieve headaches and migraine quickly. Guarana is also used as an appetite-suppressant and is claimed as a slimming product. It is also reputed to be an effective sexual stimulant.
Posted by: michael on June 24, 2009 12:38 PM
Guarana is a native vine of the Brazilian Amazon, and can be bought in tablet form. It is claimed to relieve headaches and migraine quickly. Guarana is also used as an appetite-suppressant and is claimed as a slimming product. It is also reputed to be an effective sexual stimulant.
Posted by: mike on September 3, 2009 05:19 PM
I had migraines for about 30 years. Over time these increased in frequency and severity. I tried several prescription "preventatives", all of which caused unberable side effects. Once I was told by my gp that the medical community doesn't really know what causes migraines and that I would have to live with them the rest of my life, I withdraw my faith in mainstream medical and sought my own solution. It turned out that I had an intolerance to gluten. No, I was never tested for this, but 24 hours after starting on a gluten-free diet certain debilitatin neurological effects ceased and my migraines have sharply decreased. I have been GF for 3 years now and no longer suffer from migraines.
Posted by: Michael on February 8, 2010 04:05 PM
Name:
Email Address:
URL:
Comments:
Remember info?
Security code:
Please enter the security code displayed on the above grid
Due to our anti-spamming policy the comments you are posting will show up online within few hours from the posting time.
A Person Is Only As Valuable As She Can Be Of Help To Others
Home | Site map | About | Contact
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License.
These articles are brought to you strictly for educational and informational purposes.
Be sure to consult your health practitioner of choice prior to any specific use of any of the non drug device or food based medicinal products referenced herein.
3242
RSS Feed Subscription here
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Most Popular Articles
Bad News About Statin Drugs
Cod Liver Oil - Number One Superfood
Statin Drugs & Memory Loss
Cold remedies that really work.- update
STATIN DRUGS Side Effects
Recent articles
Drinking Water Fluoridation is Genotoxic & Teratogenic
Democracy At Work? - PPM On Fluoride
"Evidence Be Damned...Patient Outcome Is Irrelevant" - From Helke
Why Remove Fluoride From Phosphate Rock To Make Fertilizer
FOFI Codex Meeting Report On Labelling May 9 - 13, 2011
Misconduct Of Health Canada Bureaucrats
Archive of all articles on this site
Most recent comments
Cold remedies that really work.- update
Why Doctors Don't Recommend More The Use Of Coq10?
Re: Dispelling the Night-Time Frequent Urination
Health via Meditation/Stress Reduction
Build a Low cost & simple Magnetic Pulser
Candida International
What Does MHRA Stand For??
Bono and Bush Party without Koch: AIDS Industry Makes a Mockery of Medical Science
Profit as Usual and to Hell with the Risks: Media Urge that Young Girls Receive Mandatory Cervical Cancer Vaccine
Health Supreme
Multiple sclerosis is Lyme disease: Anatomy of a cover-up
Chromotherapy in Cancer
Inclined Bed Therapy: Tilt your bed for healthful sleep
Evolving Collective Intelligence
Let Us Please Frame Collective Intelligence As Big As It Is
Reflections on the evolution of choice and collective intelligence
Whole System Learning and Evolution -- and the New Journalism
Gathering storms of unwanted change
Protect Sources or Not? - More Complex than It Seems
Consensus
Islanda, quando il popolo sconfigge l'economia globale.
Il Giorno Fuori dal Tempo, Il significato energetico del 25 luglio
Rinaldo Lampis: L'uso Cosciente delle Energie
Attivazione nei Colli Euganei (PD) della Piramide di Luce
Contatti con gli Abitanti Invisibili della Natura
Diary of a Knowledge Broker
Giving It Away, Making Money
Greenhouses That Change the World
Cycles of Communication and Collaboration
What Is an "Integrated Solution"?
Thoughts about Value-Add
Best sellers from