Fighting Depression Naturally with Push Ups - How to Ditch Your Meds
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Beginner Weight Loss & Strength Training | Hashi Mashi
Tips to Improve Your Mind & Body Fitness
About
Obese Man Loses 75 Pounds in 6 Months
New York Times Press
Fat to Fit Plan
Weight Loss
How to Lose 20 pounds in 3 Months
Weight Loss Blog Articles
Strength Training
Deadlifts Blog Articles
Squats Blog Articles
Pushups Blog Articles
Resources
Contact
Fighting Depression With Exercise Tips from Three Continents
Sharing is caring!
Share
Tweet
Pin
3shares
Introduction to Fighting Depression With Exercise
Research shows that fighting depression with exercise is a legitimate option to manage the symptoms of depression. This is critical information if you have treatment-resistant depression, or want to get off of medications. Studies show that exercise is indeed medicine for the body, mind and soul.
Exercise is not a depression cure-all. But, a new study published in the Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology found that exercise promotes happiness. More physically active people reported greater general feelings of excitement when compared to less-active people. Exercise may also reduce stress and help you get a better night’s sleep.
That’s why your favorite fitness routine can be an excellent addition to your depression treatment plan.
“Exercise stimulates the release of many of the brain chemicals thought to be in low supply when someone is battling depression,” explains David Muzina, MD, the founding director of the Cleveland Clinic Center for Mood Disorders Treatment and Research.
How to Naturally Fight Depression with Exercise such as Push Ups
Which Exercise is Best?
The question is which workouts work best in fighting depression with exercise? The answer is whatever gets you moving! Can you walk? Start walking 30 minutes to an hour a day.
You prefer to run? Then run! Rowing, swimming, weightlifting, tennis, whatever it is, get moving!
Get out of your home and get moving.
A couple of years ago, I met a man who asked me if I could call a childhood friend of his and help him out of his depression. Immediately I said yes, and called his friend. The man told me that his friend had wasted away in his apartment for over 15 years. He began to experience major depressive symptoms during and after his divorce and estrangement from his only child.
I understand the pain of both and implored him to consider just a walk every day, just to get outside of the room he had sat in for over a decade. He did not want to. He said several times, maybe , but at the end of the day, he did not want to move. He did not want to get up and start moving physically and metaphorically beyond his pain.
I explained to him how much just moving would help him, but it was to no avail. Unfortunately, as far as I know, he continues to take medications and continues to suffer over a past that cannot be changed and over a present that is not what he wanted.
As I said to him, so I say to you and myself, just get up and get moving. It does not matter what exercise you do, but at the least start walking and for strength I like to suggest squats, deadlifts and push ups as well.
Why Push Ups for Fighting Depression?
As opposed to squats and deadlifts, you do not need a gym. You also do not need to have weights and a power rack in your home. Gym equipment in an apartment is not too practical, and even in a home is not always possible. For example if your basement or garage has a low ceiling, now what? But, as long as you have a floor or carpet, you can do push ups.
Can you fight depression with push ups? I say yes, and I am not the only person who fights depression with the simple push up.
Look at this article how exercise affects your mood from the Black Dog Institute, an pioneer in the identification, prevention and treatment of mental illness.
How to Naturally Fight Depression with Push Ups – Australia
How to Naturally Fight Depression With Push Ups
A Canberra man who has fought a battle against depression is doing 3,000 push ups in three hours to raise funds for the Black Dog Institute and awareness of major depressive disorder .
I doubt that 3,000 push ups is a realistic number for most of us. But, why not shoot for a bare minimum. I like 100. Whatever you like, 100 or 1,000, you will definitely feel better!
Bill Lockley will undertake his challenge from 6:00am to 9:00am on Thursday 17 November at the corner of Martin Place and Elizabeth Street in Sydney, Australia.
“I love push ups and I hate depression, so doing one to fight the other was a natural fit,” Lockley said.
“All year I’ve been engaged in a running battle against depression. I've had good days and bad days, but one thing that always seemed to help me keep the black dog at bay was getting regular exercise.
I can only confirm and agree with Bill Lockley's statement. Keeping the black dog of depression away is a lot easier by getting regular exercise. Push ups are not the only way, but all you need is yourself and a floor, what is more convenient than that? Even if you can only do one push up, start there and gradually increase your push ups.
When I started doing push ups, I could only do one. As your body gets stronger, so will your mind.
The Importance of a Mental Health Diagnosis
“It was a self test from the Black Dog Institute that convinced me to seek further help earlier this year, so I wanted to do something to help them reach others struggling with depression. “I know that exercise can have a very positive effect on people experiencing depression. Doing 3,000 push ups in three hours is how I choose to get exercise, but if you aren’t quite up to that, there are plenty of other ways to let exercise lift your mood.
See this detailed, updated and comprehensive blueprint when feeling blue and how a mental health diagnosis is empowering. It is completely free and carefully backed by research. You can find it here: https://www.jenreviews.com/mental-health-diagnosis/
Depression Statistics in Australia
Around one in five Australians will suffer from a mood disorder in their lifetime.
For some people it will be an isolated occurrence. However, the reality is that for many people, it will be an ongoing challenge throughout their lives that will also impact loved ones around them.
The Black Dog Institute is a not-for-profit organisation helping people who are depressed and by undertaking this initiative we know we are helping those affected to enjoy a normal life. The Institute has an international reputation for its outstanding research while at the same time operates a clinic for people with mood disorders at its Randwick facility as well as extensive community programs and education and training for health professionals.
For further information:
Contact: Bill Lockley: Mobile: 0425 299850 Email: [email protected] or Ian Dose (M) 0419 618 606 [email protected]
A Man Swaps Pills for Push ups! – Great Britain
Another story which appeared on the web about fighting depression with exercise and specifically push ups is below:
Depression-hit David swaps pills for push-ups — (Northumberland Gazette
A BATTLE against the blues has led a Lesbury man to swap medication for membership of a local gym – with remarkable results, not only for his mental health, but also his weight.
David Hawkins has suffered from serious depression since the age of 18 but now, aged 50, he is getting his life back on track thanks to the Village Farm Health Club and Spa in Shilbottle.
And in the process he’s shed an incredible nine stone ( 126 pounds ), which has been a further massive boost to his confidence. David, of Lealands, said his struggle to cope began towards the end of his teens.
“There was a history of depression in my family and both my father and grandfather suffered from it,” he said. “I don’t know why it happened to me to begin with, perhaps it is a genetic predisposition.
“I then went on to have a career in sales and worked in a very high-pressure environment, which didn’t help matters. “You were only ever as good as your last sale and in the end I was made redundant. It was devastating.”
When Medication Does Not Work
Like so many other people fighting depression, David went to his doctor and was prescribed medication. But while it stabilised his emotions, he found it having an increasingly negative impact on his life as time wore on. “After many years of taking many different kinds of antidepressants for mood swings and anxiety, I was finding that the medication was making me feel like a zombie, that my personality was being drained away,” he said.
“My weight had also become a big problem and I had shot up to 23 stone ( 322 pounds ). “I felt trapped and very isolated. I had been to gyms before, but they felt like factories, way too commercial and not that interested in you as a person.”
In 2009, David first found the inner strength to launch himself into a fitness drive, but he admits he wasn’t able to sustain it at that point in his life.
“I managed to shift a lot of weight over the course of a year, but because of the ongoing depression, I stopped going to the gym and I put six stone ( 84 pounds )of it back on again in just a few months,” he says. “I was desperate, but I knew I had to get back on top of things.
“The staff at Village Farm were a massive help in keeping me motivated, very helpful, incredibly supportive, friendly and caring – the whole place has a lovely, welcoming feel.
“They have also helped me to take a more balanced approach to weight-loss by making small, gradual changes to my lifestyle and so far I have kept the weight off. As a result, I feel much fitter and more stable. I have a general feeling of health and wellbeing.
The Turning Point
“Looking back, it has proved to be a huge turning point for me and very gradually I have been able to stop taking all medication. My mood swings are now under control and my anxiety is manageable.”
David’s wife Carol has also noticed a transformation in his well-being.
“This has made a big difference to the way David is,” she said. “We went out for a drink for the first time in ages last week. He seems so much happier with himself. I only hope it continues.”
David added:
“By going to the gym, the social contact has increased and my confidence and self-esteem has developed. I no longer feel socially isolated and depressed. I cannot recommend this alternative road to recovery too highly.”
“I only hope my experience encourages others to take positive action.”
“I’m extremely grateful to the staff at Village Farm and thankful to them all for their motivational support.”
You can find the original story here: https://www.ssristories.org/after-many-years-on-ads-man-felt-like-his-personaity-was-drained-away-he-became-obese/
Benefits of Exercise for Depression – United States of America
Last but not least is an article from the Mayo Clinic describing the benefits of exercise for Depression:
Research on anxiety, depression and exercise shows that the psychological and physical benefits of exercise can also help reduce anxiety and improve mood.
The links between anxiety, depression and exercise aren't entirely clear — but working out can definitely help you relax and make you feel better. Exercise may also help keep anxiety and depression from coming back once you're feeling better.
How Exercise Helps Depression
Exercise probably helps manage depression in a some ways, which may include:
Releasing feel-good brain chemicals that may ease depression (neurotransmitters and endorphins)
Reducing immune system chemicals that can worsen depression
Increasing body temperature, which may have calming effects
Exercise has many psychological and emotional benefits too. It can help you:
Gain confidence. Meeting exercise goals or challenges, even small ones, can boost your self-confidence. Getting in shape can also make you feel better about your appearance.
Take your mind off worries. Exercise is a distraction that can get you away from the cycle of negative thoughts that feed anxiety and depression.
Get more social interaction. Exercise may give you the chance to meet with others. Just exchanging a friendly smile or greeting as you walk around your neighborhood can help your mood.
Cope in a healthy way. Doing something positive to manage anxiety or depression is a healthy coping strategy. Trying to feel better by drinking alcohol, dwelling on how badly you feel, or hoping anxiety or depression will go away on its own can lead to worsening symptoms.
Here is the full article: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/depression/in-depth/depression-and-exercise/art-20046495
There are many other studies which corroborate and support the anecdotal evidence of many people who have lifted their depression through exercise. If you want to get more fit, end obesity or fight depression, start a push up workout program.
See 23 Things I Learned From Doing 100 Push Ups a Day at 62 Years Old. Here is how to do 36,500 Push Ups this year.
Conclusion to Naturally Fighting Depression
Depression is a nightmare for anyone who is in its grip. Not only for you, but for your family, friends and coworkers as well. You need options for fighting depression.
Fortunately studies around the world show that exercise is as effective against depression as medications.
You have choices besides medications, even the simple push up is an effective alternative. You can do the push up anywhere and get leaner and stronger just from push ups. Besides the body transformation provided by the benefits of pushups, now you know how push ups are also a great tool for fighting depression and anxiety disorder.
What do you think are the best alternatives for fighting depression without medications? Do you have other suggestions? Did you ever use aerobic exercise or bodyweight exercise like push ups to fight depression?
Related Post:
SIGECAPS: The Ultimate Guide to Naturally Fighting Depression
Please Share These 3 Tips to Help Fight Depression with Exercise by Pinning the Image Below:
Filed Under: Depression
Rich is a certified personal trainer-AAPT and the author of ZEHHU: Crossing the Bridge from Depression to Life. At the age of 55, he lost 75 pounds in 6 months. Go here to read his story and see how he did it. Feel free to send Rich a message here.
Top 10 Weight Loss + Strength Training Tips
Eat real food and lose 20 pounds in only 3 months
Drink 8 to 10 glasses of water a day
Start moving – walk, run, swim, elliptical, jump rope, for at least 30 minutes a day
Start a 12 week beginner deadlift program to change your body fast
Do pushups and/or bench press
Add squats
Think good thoughts
Get 7 - 9 hours of sleep to function at your best
Take a complete rest at least one day a week
Get the best tools for beginner fitness
Get Your FREE Body Transformation Guide
Primary Sidebar
Deadlifts Blog Articles
27 Sensational Ways How Deadlifts Change Your Body
37 Remarkable Benefits of Deadlifts to Reclaim Your Health & Fitness
How to Deadlift Like a Boss in 5 Simple Steps
One Great Beginner Deadlift Workout Routine
12 Week Deadlift Program for Beginners
5 Best Deadlift Shin Guards On The Market Today in 2019
Weightloss Blog Articles
How to Lose 20 Pounds in 3 Months Using 5 Simple Steps
Best Diet to Lose Weight Fast - Secrets of the Fit Apprentice
Why Is It So Hard to Lose Weight After 50
Obese Man Ditches 3 Common Habits and Loses 75 Pounds in 6 Months
Just Eat Real Food Daily - The Simple Key to Successful Weight Loss
Begin Healing
Beginner Cardio
What Are the 5 Components of Fitness?
5 Ways Cardiorespiratory Endurance Affects Your Physical Fitness
How the Powerful Overload Principle Explodes Your Fitness
A Simple HIIT Workout will Torch Fat and Transform your Body
5 Cardio Workouts to Shred Fat in Just 12 Weeks
Footer
Categories
Antidepressants
Bent Over Rows
Blog
Cardiovascular Fitness
Deadlifts Blog Articles
Depression
Divorce
Exclusive
Fat Loss
Fitness
Hashi Mashi
Health
How to Fight Depression
In the News
Inspiration
Lessons Learned
Motivation
NASM Certification
Nutrition
Obesity
Press
Pushups
Quotes
Recipes
Reviews
Silent Treatment
Sleep
Squats
Strength Training
suicide prevention
The Best
The Daily Weigh
Walking
Weight Loss Blog Articles
workout plans
You Can Lose The Weight & Get Fit
Do you think it is possible to reboot your fitness?
Remember when you were in shape back in the day?
Do you think that rebooting your fitness is a pipe dream?
You are in the right place if you want to get back into shape, but do not know where to start.
This is how...
Continue Reading Here
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Link Disclosure
Terms of Use
Hashi Mashi™ Diet and Training is Designed for Informational Purposes Only & Does Not Provide Medical Advice, Treatment or Diagnosis.
Copyright © 2019 - Hashimashi.com - All Rights Reserved - Hosted by BIGSCOOTS - The Greatest Hosting On Earth-For Real!
3shares
Get The Fat to Fit Transformation Plan Cheat Sheet
that I used to trim 18 inches off my waist in 6 months. This cheat sheet is a roadmap for your own fat to fit transformation. What do you have to lose, other than your belly?
Yes, I Want It!
You have Successfully Subscribed!