Dr. Sheffield's Athlete Foot Cream Review
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete Foot Cream Review
Editor's Rating:
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Foot Cream claims to be an anti-itching cream that also cures fungal infections like athlete’s foot, ringworm or jock itch. Read on to learn more about Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Foot Cream.
Ingredients
The full list of ingredients for Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Foot Cream is unavailable. The listing on Amazon claims that the cream contains both aloe and vitamin E. The product also contains 1% Clotrimazole as its active ingredient.
Aloe and vitamin E are popular natural soothing agents for skin that is suffering from burns, infections or general irritation.
Clotrimazole is a popular over the counter anti-fungal medicine which is commonly used to treat athlete’s foot, ringworm, jock itch and candidiasis.
Dosage
The exact dosage is not known for this product. To use Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Foot Cream, clean the area you want to apply it to and dry it thoroughly before applying a thin layer of the cream over the infected area. Do this either twice a day or as directed by your doctor or pharmacist.
This product is designed to be used daily for four weeks to treat athlete’s foot and ringworm. It is only to be used for two weeks to treat jock itch.
Possible Side Effects
This product should not be used on children under two years of age.
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, consult your doctor before using this cream. It is not yet known if the active ingredient used in this cream will pass into breast milk.
This product is designed for external use. If you ingest it, inform your doctor immediately.
If you are allergic to any of the listed ingredients or you suffer from allergies from other anti-fungal medicines, consult your doctor before using this topical cream.
Clotrimazole can have several side effects such as stinging, burning, swelling, irritation, or flaky skin. If you find any blistering or oozing sores in the area in which you applied this medicine, talk to your doctor immediately because these are the rare but serious side effects of Clotrimazole.
Price
This product is available on Amazon. It comes in a pack of two .5 oz tubes of cream which costs $5.44.
Guarantee
The guarantee for this product is uncertain and a manufacturer’s guarantee is not listed. Check with your local retailer to determine the return policy for this product. There is only one review listed on Amazon and it lists the product as having three stars but does not give a description.
Conclusion
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Foot Cream is an over the counter anti-fungal medicine that is designed to treat not only Athlete’s Foot but also other fungal infections. It uses the most common anti-fungal products available from an over the counter pharmacy and it is also relatively inexpensive. However, there is no guarantee for this product and the length of time it takes to work fully can be up to four weeks. This means that if the product does not work for you, it may be several weeks before you realize it and you will not be able to get your money back.
Click here to learn more about our Top Athlete’s Foot Treatment Products.
Jimmy Rodriguez	reviewed Dr. Sheffield's Athlete Foot Cream	on June 7th	 and gave it a rating of 2.5.
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Products for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT PRODUCTS
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
Subscribe Now!
Get the latest NEWSLETTER updates
delivered right to your inbox.
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.