CEP Ortho+ Achilles Brace, Black/Green, Unisex, Size 6 | Medical Supplies & Equipment
Friday , April 26th 2019
Best Leg & Foot Supports
Medical Supplies & Equipment
Ankle Supports
Medical Support Hose
Knee Braces
Foot Supports
Ankle Braces
CEP Ortho+ Achilles Brace, Black/Green, Unisex, Size 6
Availability: In Stock
Product Features:
ACHILLES SUPPORT WITH TARGETED HEALINGThe CEP Achilles Brace is made to offer amazing support and relief to the achilles tendon area. CEP’s targeted compression profile offers improved circulation, muscle stability, and quicker recovery from workouts. the padded cushion over the achilles tendon provides added support to ensure a stable…
Price as on: 2019-02-13 15:45:07
55.5
Product Description
ACHILLES SUPPORT WITH TARGETED HEALING
The CEP Achilles Brace is made to offer amazing support and relief to the achilles tendon area. CEP’s targeted compression profile offers improved circulation, muscle stability, and quicker recovery from workouts. the padded cushion over the achilles tendon provides added support to ensure a stable fit inside the shoe to make recovering from injury quicker and less painful. Our Achilles Brace is a certified medical device meaning that it has been developed and constructed to the highest tolerances in a factory that meets very specific guidelines.
Achilles Stabilization
The unique cushioning of the CEP Achilles Brace ensures a perfect fit to provide added support, while helping to reduce swelling. The improved circulation, thanks to targeted compression, also speeds recovery from injury by increasing the amount of fresh blood and healing lymph fluid to the joint. The CEP Achilles Brace is perfect for use by runners, soccer players, basketball players, baseball players, volleyball players, and others that are trying to get back on track following, or maintaining fitness by working through an Achilles injury.
How to wash CEP Achilles Brace
– Machine wash in cold water
– Machine dry with low heat
– No bleach, No Woolite, No fancy detergents
Industry Leading Guarantee
We hold our products to the highest quality standards in manufacturing, which guarantees the comfort and durability of every product we make. When you wear CEP you are wearing a long history of proven success in medicine and sports. We backup our products with a 100% customer satisfaction guaranteed. Buy with confidence – buy CEP.
Product Features
CEP Ortho+ Achilles Brace is a certified medical device that provides significant relief from minor Achilles tendon injuries using a proprietary targeted compression profile to reduce swelling and hasten recovery.
COMPRESSION speeds recovery by increasing the blood flow and healing lymph fluid to the injured joint. This compression offers support to the tendon and joints which stabilizes them and prevents further injury.
DURABILITY is built into this Achilles brace because all CEP Ortho products are tested to last well over 150 wears and washes.
SUPPORT is vital in the healing of Achilles tendon injuries. In addition to targeted compression profile, this brace brings added support & stability of the ankle & tendon with SmartMemory foam.
INDUSTRY LEADER CEP products come with a 100% customer satisfaction guarantee and are backed by over 65 years of being a global leader in creating innovative medical products for sports and medicine.
Support for the treatment of injury and discomfort in the Achilles tendon
Improved blood circulation
Preventative function
30 Day guarantee
Share on Facebook Share
Share on Pinterest Pin it
Share on TwitterTweet
Send To Devices Send
Related Products
Ankle Foot Orthosis Support – Drop Foot Support
The orthosis is an aid when treating DROP FOOT and other insufficiencies of the foot and ankle Injection molded…
Price : 11.99
View Details
Foot Droop Orthosis Guards Foot Correction Shoes
This ankle foot postural corrector is designed to provides full stabilized protection, suitable for ankle or foot drop sporting.The…
Price : 22.99
View Details
Posture Corrector Spinal Support – Physical
Do You Think You Need Spinal Rehabilitation or Postural Correction? Leading medical experts agree bad posture leads to more…
Price : 21.99
View Details
Popular Products
Liomor Ankle Support Breathable Ankle Brace for
Nov 8 2018 569 Views
Blitzu Flex Plus Compression Knee Brace for Joint
Nov 8 2018 521 Views
Made in the USA – Opaque Compression Socks,
Nov 8 2018 391 Views
Nuvein Compression Socks for Women and Men, Medical
Nov 8 2018 366 Views
This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com All logos and product images are copyrighted to the original manufacturer.
Copyright © 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Contact Us | Sitemap | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy