Why Does My Ankle Hurt? 15 Possible Causes of Ankle Pain
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
Is a New Remedy for Body Odor on the Horizon?
FDA Bans Sales of All Vaginal Mesh Products
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Pain Management
Slideshows
Why Your Ankle Hurts
1 / 15
Sprained Ankle
It’s a tear in the tissues (called ligaments) that hold your ankle bones together. It often happens when your foot rolls sideways. Your ankle may bruise and swell. You might not be able to put weight on it. RICE is the best way to treat it:
Rest
Ice for 20 minutes at a time
Compress with an elastic bandage
Elevate your ankle -- lift it above your heart
A light sprain will get better in a few days. If yours is worse, the doctor may suggest a short cast or walking boot, followed by physical therapy.
Swipe to advance
2 / 15
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Your immune system normally fights off germs. Sometimes it attacks your joints by mistake. Doctors call this rheumatoid arthritis. It usually affects the same joint on both sides of your body. If you have it, both ankles are likely to hurt. Pain, swelling, and stiffness often start in the toes and front of your foot and move slowly back to the ankle. Exercise, including physical therapy, can help. Your doctor also may prescribe special shoes or inserts to relieve pain or drugs to ease the swelling.
Swipe to advance
3 / 15
Lupus
This autoimmune disease causes your body to attack healthy tissue. It could affect your ankles directly or cause kidney problems that lead to fluid buildup in your joints. There’s no cure for lupus, but your doctor can give you medications to keep it under control. A healthy diet and regular exercise can also help.
Swipe to advance
4 / 15
Osteoarthritis
A joint is where two bones meet. Cartilage covers the end of each bone to provide a cushion. Over time, it wears off. When it’s gone, the bones rub directly against each other. This can lead to pain, stiffness, and loss of motion. Your doctor may suggest anti-inflammatory drugs and steroid shots to reduce swelling, braces to help your ankle move less, and physical therapy to teach you strengthening exercises. You might need surgery.
Swipe to advance
5 / 15
Gout
Your big toe is the most common spot for a gout attack, but it can affect your ankle, too. It happens when a waste product called uric acid turns into needle-shaped crystals that collect in your joints. This causes intense pain and swelling. Your doctor can prescribe medications to treat an attack. You’ll also need to rest. A special gout diet and good exercise habits can ease future attacks and other problems.
Swipe to advance
6 / 15
Flat Feet
Your arch is the space between your heel and the ball of your foot. It’s supposed to create a hollow area when you stand. If yours stays flat, it could be the result of injury or wear and tear. You could also inherit it. It’s usually painless, but your ankles could hurt or swell if they get out of line with your knees. Arch supports and supportive shoes can help. So can specially designed physical therapy exercises.
Swipe to advance
7 / 15
Ankle Fracture
Three bones make up your ankle -- the tibia (shinbone), fibula, and talus. If one (or more) cracks or breaks, you could notice pain, bruising, and swelling. You might be able to walk with a broken ankle, but it won’t be easy. If it’s severe, you could see exposed bone. Rest your foot and keep it iced, compressed, and elevated (RICE) until you can see a doctor. He’ll decide on the best form of treatment. He might give you a splint or cast to keep the bones in place. Some people need surgery.
Swipe to advance
8 / 15
Achilles Tendinitis
A heavy or sudden strain can cause tiny tears in the Achilles tendon, which connects your calf muscles to your heel. The back of your ankle may swell or feel tender and warm just above your heel. You might notice it most in the morning or after exercise. Anti-inflammatory drugs can ease the pain, but rest is key to healing. Stretching and heel lifts may help, but talk to your doctor or physical therapist first. If scar tissue causes problems later on, you might need surgery.
Swipe to advance
9 / 15
Achilles Tendinosis
This problem results from tissue breakdown due to overuse. It usually starts slowly and gets worse over time. You could have pain or a bump where the tendon at the back of your leg meets your heel. Sometimes it affects the middle of the tendon -- you might notice a bump there, too. Rest and over-the-counter drugs can ease swelling and pain. Special shoes, inserts, or braces can lessen stress on the tendon. Physical therapy can help, too.
Swipe to advance
10 / 15
Chronic Lateral Ankle Pain
There are many possible causes for ongoing pain on the outside of your ankle. It’s most likely because a ligament didn’t heal properly after a sprain and remains weak. This makes the entire joint less stable and leads to more injury and pain. Treatment depends on the cause. It will likely involve rest and special exercises to strengthen weak tissues.
Swipe to advance
11 / 15
Bursitis
Your ankle has two fluid-filled sacs, or bursa, that cushion the space between the tendons and bones. They can get inflamed from arthritis, overuse, high-heeled shoes, recent footwear changes, or starting workouts again after time off. Your ankle may feel stiff, tender, warm, and swollen. The best treatment is RICE: rest, ice, compression and elevation. Take anti-inflammatory drugs to ease the pain and swelling. Stretches and special exercises can prevent future problems.
Swipe to advance
12 / 15
Osteochondral Lesions of the Talus (OLT)
A sudden injury like a sprain can damage cartilage on your talus (heel bone) or cause fractures, blisters or sores in the bone underneath. You might notice a catch in your ankle, or it could lock up or still hurt months after a treated injury, which could be an OLT. Treatment depends on the type, but you may wear a cast to keep your ankle still and use crutches to keep your weight off it. Your physical therapist will add exercises slowly.
Swipe to advance
13 / 15
Reactive Arthritis
This type usually follows an infection in your GI or urinary tract. Ankles and knees are among the first places you may feel it. Your doctor will treat the infection with antibiotics. There’s no cure for the arthritis, but anti-inflammatory drugs can help with pain and swelling. Exercise will keep your joints flexible. The arthritis should go away in a few months.
Swipe to advance
14 / 15
Scleroderma
This group of conditions causes your skin and connective tissues to thicken. When it affects the tissues around a joint, you might feel pain and stiffness. It can also weaken your muscles and cause digestive, heart, and kidney problems. Treatment depends on your symptoms, which can vary. There’s no cure, but doctors can help you treat heart, kidney, skin, lung, dental, and gut issues that come with the disease.
Swipe to advance
15 / 15
Infection
If you’re also sick, irritable, and feverish along with your ankle pain, you might have an infection. The joint may be swollen, red, and warm. Your doctor may use a needle to remove fluid from your ankle to drain it or test for a cause. You’ll get antibiotics to kill the bacteria. It’s rare, but viruses or fungi can infect your joints, too.
Swipe to advance
Up Next
Next Slideshow Title
Skip Ad
1 / 15
Skip Ad
Sources | Medically Reviewed on 12/22/2017 Reviewed by Jennifer Robinson, MD on December 22, 2017
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
1) SEASTOCK / Thinkstock
2) Mike Devlin / Science Source
3) Dr P. Marazzi / Science Source
4) BSIP / JACOPIN / Medical Images
5) joloei / Thinkstock
6) Darrell Perry / Science Source
7) Scott Camazine/Science Source
8) Eraxion / Thinkstock
9) melenay / Thinkstock
10) toeytoey2530 / Thinkstock
11) Dr P. Marazzi / Science Source
12) Stocktrek Images / Science Source
13) Ingram Publishing / Thinkstock
14) ISM / CID / Medical Images
15) Dr P. Marazzi / Science Source
SOURCES:
American Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle Society: “Achilles Tendinitis,” “Achilles Tendinosis,” “Ankle Fracture,” “Ankle Sprain,” “Chronic Lateral Ankle Pain,” “How to Care for a Sprained Ankle,” “Osteochondral Lesion,” “Rheumatoid Arthritis of the Foot and Ankle.”
Arthritis Foundation: “Arthritis and Diseases that Affect the Ankle,” “Reactive Arthritis,” “Reactive Arthritis Symptoms,” Scleroderma.”
UpToDate: “Patient education: Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and diagnosis (Beyond the Basics),” “Reactive arthritis.”
Mayo Clinic: Achilles tendinitis: Overview,” “Flatfeet: Diagnosis & treatment,” “Flatfeet: Symptoms & causes,” “Gout: Diagnosis & treatment,” “Lupus: Diagnosis & treatment,” “Septic Arthritis: Diagnosis & treatment,” “Septic Arthritis: Symptoms & causes.”
American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons: “Osteoarthritis of the Foot and Ankle.”
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: “Ankle Fractures (Broken Ankle).”
International Journal of Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork: “Tendinopathy: Why the Difference Between Tendinitis and Tendinosis Matters.”
NIAMS: “Bursitis.”
Medscape: “Retrocalcaneal Bursitis Clinical Presentation.”
Podiatry Today: “How To Diagnose And Treat Osteochondral Lesions Of The Talus.”
Cleveland Clinic: “Septic Arthritis.”
Reviewed by Jennifer Robinson, MD on December 22, 2017
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information.
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
WebMD Slideshows
View our slideshows to learn more about your health.
Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches?
Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task.
Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for.
Attention Killers What steals your concentration?
Cancer Does THIS cause cancer?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.