Women’s Health – Kelly's Choice, LLC Kellyschoice.org
Kelly's Choice, LLC Kellyschoice.org
We Are Real People who Promote Eating Real Food. We are dietitians, nutritionists and educators on a mission: To dramatically improve our communities by transforming diets. People who consume nutritious foods perform better, handle stress better and live a healthier and longer life. And real food tastes great! Want to perform at your best? A healthy intake of the right foods will fuel your energy and improve your performance.
Sidebar
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 7,761 other followers
Follow
Like us on Facebook!
Like us on Facebook!
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recent Posts
MyPlate Meal: Asian Style Quiche
Healthy Choices for a Hectic Life
MyPlate Power Salad
Chicken-broccoli-rice Bake
Why I recommend MyPlate over fad diets
Search for:
Recent Comments
Erin on My Top 10 Hacks for Holiday…
Scarlett Sampsell on Celebrate Eat your Vegetables…
soggybottomhomestead on Avoid added sugars with SweetL…
Scarlett Sampsell on Heal your gut, reduce your…
kchoice2014 on Win Toby Amidor’s brand…
Archives
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
December 2013
Categories
bone health
brain health
children's health
contest
Digestive Health
Earth Month
environmentalist
Fitness
food product
healthy eating
healthy sleep
heart health
hydration
men's health
Natural remedies
new health trends
No White Flour Challenge
parenting
recipes
Sports Nutrition
stress reduction
Superfood
Uncategorized
vegan
weight loss
Women's Health
Women's Health Month
Advertisements
Women’s Health
Keep a Healthy Weight and Feel Great at 40
Standard
I can’t even count how many women choose to come see me when they hit the milestone of age 40. As women, when we start to hit middle-age, our metabolic rate drops so we can’t burn calories as quickly. I have also found that stress takes over for a lot of women in this age range, juggling career, children, and other obligations—and unfortunately, emotional eating may result.
Don’t fear, it is totally possible to prevent weight gain after 40 by following a few guidelines I have outlined below:
Address your gut health. You want to ramp up on your healthy bacteria. Most women are great with yogurt, but I suggest kicking it up a notch with kefir. You may want to even consider a probiotic supplement to further improve your gut health. You also want to be sure you are getting enough fiber in your diet from fruits and veggies—some of my high-fiber favorites include broccoli, peas, artichokes, avocado, squash, pears, and berries.
Make sure you get enough protein—and not just at dinner. Try to get at least 15-20 grams of protein at every meal time. Consider eggs for breakfast or tuna at lunch. Turn to protein-rich snacks as well. Cottage cheese, yogurt, a piece of fruit with nut butter. I also like roasted chickpeas; I have a great recipe for honey-dill roasted chickpeas on my website.
Curb your carbohydrate cravings with water. I’m serious about this! If you keep yourself hydrated, you will have way less cravings. Try to schedule your water if you have to. For example, have 16 ounces before 9:00 am, 16 ounces before noon, 16 ounces before 3:00 pm, and another 16 ounces before 6:00 pm. The bonus about keeping hydrated with water is that it will help that healthy gut bacteria thrive.
Try these tips out; stay active; get ample sleep; and reduce your stress with yoga or meditation as well as fun with friends and family and you will feel fabulous at 40 and beyond!
Advertisements
Date March 11, 2017
Tags fiber, gut health, honey roasted chickpeas, metabolism, probiotic, protein
Comments Leave a comment
Mitigate your Migraines through Nutrition
Standard
June is National Migraine and Headache Awareness Month. For those of you who suffer from migraines, I feel your pain. They can be so debilitating! But, guess what?! I have some nutrition recommendations that can help ease those pesky headaches!
Three of the most common causes of migraines are food sensitivities, chemical triggers and hormonal imbalances.
The most common food sensitivities that can provoke migraines are gluten and dairy sensitivities. Try eliminating gluten for two weeks and see if the headaches dissipate. Be careful because gluten is in a lot of foods that you wouldn’t expect it to be in like dressings, ice cream and soy sauce. See a full list of gluten-containing foods here. If the headaches still persist, try eliminating dairy for two full weeks.
Chemicals lurking in your food can also trigger migraines. Two common offenders are MSG and artificial sweeteners (yup, another reason to ditch the diet sodas). MSG is in so many processed products from soups to chips, even in most sausage! Wean off the processed foods; rid the chemicals out of your diet and you may just witness your migraines vanish!
Hormone imbalances are also common migraine triggers. Do you tend to get migraines around your menstrual cycle? If so, listen up! You probably have estrogen dominance. Load up on broccoli and other cruciferous vegetables (cauliflower, kale, bok choy, cabbage). Get plenty of Omega-3s; befriend fish! And definitely consume foods with lots of magnesium: whole grains, nuts, seeds, legumes. Reduce the refined and processed foods as well to get those hormones in balance>
Are you seeing a common theme in nutritionally treating many conditions? EAT CLEAN and RID THOSE PROCESSED FOODS first and foremost and then try the further recommendations.
I hope this helps! Migraines are the worst! Before I close, I also want to say to reduce your stress. Slow down. Go for a walk. Try yoga or meditation. Connect with friends and loved ones. Stress can definitely exacerbate migraines and many other health ailments!
Date June 23, 2016
Tags artificial sweeteners, chemical triggers, dairy, food additives, food sensitivities, gluten, hormone imbalances, migraine headaches, MSG
Comments Leave a comment
Women’s Health Month Wrap-Up
Standard
As Women’s Health Month comes to a close, let’s examine the most powerful foods and nutrients that prevent dozens of ailments specific to women. The two biggies are omega-3s and fiber.
Omega-3s:
I cannot stress this enough— omega-3s are natural anti-inflammatories! They essentially help prevent every disease condition, and you learned this month, that they help prevent breast cancer, interstitial cystitis, PMS, and menopause. You also learned that they are essential for prenatal health. So load up on the following:
Wild-caught salmon
Flaxseed
Walnuts
Chia seeds
Sardines
Mackerel
Basil
Oregano
Fiber
Fiber is essential to maintain a healthy weight. You also learned this month how fiber helps ease menopause, PMS, and may help protect you against breast cancer. Beans, legumes, and a lot of vegetables, fruits, and whole grains are important here. Here are some top choices:
Oats and oat bran
Lima beans
Adzuki beans
Lentils
Kidney beans
Navy beans
Raspberries
Sweet peas
Acorn squash
Pears
Prunes
Avocados
Fiber and omega-3 are very central to the Mediterranean Diet. So, if there were any one diet I’d recommend, that would be the one! It also stresses limiting processed foods, which is imperative in order to achieve optimal health.
Apply these health tips and watch your health improve exponentially. If you combine these nutritional tips with regular exercise and stress management prioritization, you will feel fantastic—that I can promise you!
Date May 29, 2016
Tags breast cancer, exercise, fiber, interstitial cystitis, menopause, Omega-3, PMS, processed food, stress management
Comments Leave a comment
Easing Menopause with Nutrition
Standard
Our last blog was about easing PMS symptoms. Many women would be thrilled to say goodbye to PMS as they start going through perimenopause and then menopause; however, they are then likely to become negatively impacted by any of the following menopause symptoms (many which are similar to PMS symptoms): night sweats, moodiness, vaginal dryness, loss of libido, weight-gain, hair loss, headaches, and difficulty concentrating. The good news is that there are nutritional approaches to easing these symptoms! Here are my top-five recommendations.
Recommendation # 1: Load up On Vitamin-B Rich Foods and Omega-3 Rich Foods to Battle Moodiness
Not getting enough B vitamins or Omega-3s in your diet has been proven to contribute to anxiety, depression, and mood swings! Look to whole grains, beans, lentils, and lean meat for your B vitamins. Look to fish or flaxseed for your Omega-3s.
Recommendation # 2: Eat Fiber-Rich Foods
This will help you out doubly! By eating foods rich in fiber, you will stave off weight gain (by feeling fuller longer and reducing sugary cravings) and you will also help prevent mood swings (by balancing blood sugar). Some great fiber-rich foods include: flax, chia, fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and beans.
Recommendation # 3: Consume Plant-Based Foods with Isoflavones
Isoflavones, also known as phytoestrogens, are foods that naturally have estrogen in them; therefore, they will help balance out the estrogen that you are losing. Consider tofu, lentils, oats, flaxseed, or wheat germ.
Recommendation # 4: Limit Sugar, Caffeine, and Alcohol
All three are known to trigger the symptoms associated with menopause.
Recommendation # 5: Follow a Mediterranean-Style Diet
We wrote a blog earlier this year on the Mediterranean Diet. New research shows that a Mediterranean Diet can help prevent hot flashes by stabilizing estrogen levels, while a diet high in sugar and saturated fat can exacerbate hot flashes.
Eating healthy is the bottom line when it comes to managing menopausal symptoms. And don’t forget to exercise—that helps too!
Date May 27, 2016
Tags B vitamins, fiber, isoflavones, mediterranean diet, menopause, Omega-3, perimenopause, phtoestrogens
Comments Leave a comment
PMS Prevention Tips
Standard
How do you feel five to 11 days before your period? Bloated? Irritable? Tense? Anxious? Emotional? Exhausted? Mood swings? Do you get migraine headaches? Do you have insatiable cravings for sweets? If you experience any of these symptoms, then premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is no stranger to you. Guess what though? I have good news for you! You can ease these symptoms through nutritional changes. PMS is the result of hormone imbalances; here are some ways that you can balance those pesky hormones.
Kick Refined Flours and Sugars out of your Diet
Refined flour and sugar, found in almost all processed foods, are highly inflammatory to the body, which sparks hormone imbalances and exacerbates PMS symptoms.
Reduce your Caffeine and Alcohol Intake
Like refined flours and sugars, caffeine and alcohol can also spark hormone imbalances due to their inflammatory properties.
Reduce your Dairy and if you do Consume it, Choose Organic
Dairy products have a lot of hormones, causing you to have excess estrogen. Organic dairy has far less hormones, so if you do enjoy your dairy, go organic!
Let’s look at fresh ways to boost your health and lessen your likelihood of experiencing PMS
Eat a lot of Cruciferous Veggies
Broccoli, cabbage, kale, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts all belong to a group of veggies known as cruciferous vegetables; these powerful, detoxifying veggies remove excess estrogens from your body.
Eat a lot of Omega-3s
Sardines, salmon, walnuts, and flaxseed all boast omega-s, which are anti-inflammatory and can help balance your hormones.
Eat Foods High in Fiber
You want to get as much fiber as you can as your approach your period; fiber will help balance your blood-sugar and will prevent those intense cravings. Fruit and veggies, oats, beans and legumes are awesome choices. Also consider adding ground flaxseed to your salads and smoothies for a boost of fiber.
Eat Magnesium-Rich Foods
Magnesium helps to balance hormones and is especially helpful at preventing or easing migraine headaches. Leafy greens, cashews, almonds, pumpkin seeds, and fish are all great choices that are high in magnesium.
Lastly, be sure to MOVE! Aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise 4-5 times a week. Exercise also helps to balance your hormones and can help prevent irksome PMS symptoms.
I hope these tips help all of you ladies who are literally TIRED of PMS!
Date May 23, 2016
Tags alcohol, caffeine, cruciferous vegetables, fiber, irritability, magnesium, migraine headaches, mood swings, Omega-3, PMS, premenstrual syndrome, refined flour, refined sugar
Comments Leave a comment
Nutrition Tips to Diffuse Stress
Standard
So many health problems stem from stress; stress is inflammatory and we know that inflammation is the precursor to almost every disease. As women, our many commitments and expectations cause us to feel frantic at times, anxiety-ridden, stretched, and stressed. Did you know that there are nutritional approaches to reducing stress, to uplift your spirits when you are depressed or overwhelmed? Follow these five simple tips to reduce your stress and the risk of dozens of resulting health ailments.
Say no to Processed Food. Processed food steals your zest and energy; it can result in lethargy and lack of motivation.
Limit Alcohol Consumption. Alcohol is a depressant. Many women I know turn to wine whenever they are stressed to the max. A glass or two is completely acceptable; just don’t make it the number-one go-to whenever stress gets to you.
Reduce your Sugar Consumption. Sugar can mess with your mood the same way processed food does. The first thing to rid is soda. For natural sugars found in fruit, balance it out by eating some protein like nuts or seeds whenever you eat fruit.
Eat Nuts and Seeds Nuts. Speaking of nuts and seeds, they are awesome mood boosters. When you desire to reach for a processed-food snack like chips, crackers, or cookies, press the pause button and turn your attention to raw nuts and seeds.
Walnuts for example, which literally look like little brains, are made up of 15 to 20 percent protein and contain linoleic (omega-6 fatty acids) and alpha-linoleic acids (omega-3 fatty acids), vitamin E and vitamin B6, making them an excellent source of nourishment for your nervous system. A healthy nervous system results in clearer thinking and a happier mood.
Cashews are high in magnesium, which is also known for calming the mind and stress. Almonds are also high in magnesium and they are rich in phenylalanine, an essential amino acid necessary for the production of dopamine, one of your feel-good neurotransmitters.
Consume Fermented Food
Do you know that your gut is connected to your mental health? Many neurotransmitters are created in your intestinal tract and in order for that creation to take place, your gut needs to have a healthy flora balance. Fermented foods are loaded with probiotics, which will exponentially increase the “good” bacteria in your gut. Try adding kombucha, sauerkraut, tempeh, miso, and kefir to your diet. Kombucha is a tasty carbonated beverage (a great alternative to soda). Tempeh is great in stir-fries and who doesn’t love a bowl of miso soup?
Kefir is my favorite fermented food; it’s like a drinkable yogurt and it’s as delicious as a milkshake!
Okay ladies; don’t let stress get the best of you. Follow these nutrition tips, get plenty of rest and exercise and you will notice the stress melt away!
Date May 19, 2016
Tags alcohol, almonds, anxiety, cashews, fermented food, kefir, kombucha, miso, mood, nuts, probiotics, processed food, saurkraut, seeds, stress, tempeh, walnuts
Comments Leave a comment
Better your Bladder Health
Standard
If you are a woman who experiences trouble with incontinence urgent urination, or bladder pain, you are not alone. Once thought to be an issue that older women struggled with, the truth is that women as young as 20 can struggle with an incontinence or an overactive bladder. Three main ailments that can contribute to bladder problems are interstitial cystitis, a bladder infection and constipation; therefore, by tackling these three ailments, you can better your bladder.
How to Deal with Interstitial Cystitis
Interstitial Cystitis (IC) is a condition that can have a wide range of symptoms from the need to urinate up to 60 times a day to bladder pain to incontinence. Ninety percent of those diagnosed with IC are women. Though the specific cause of IC is not certain, research shows that inflammation is involved; therefore, it is important to avoid food that cause inflammation: processed foods, fried foods and any acidic foods (i.e., tomatoes, orange juice, alcohol, etc.). It is helpful to consume natural anti-inflammatory foods, such as omega-3-rich food (primarily fish), querecetin-rich food (apples and red onions are the best choices here) and bromelain-rich foods (load up on the pineapple)!
How to Handle a Bladder Infection
Your bladder is part of your urinary tract; several research studies have found that a compound in cranberries (D-mannose) can fight the bacteria that cause urinary tract infections (UTIs). Add dried cranberries to your trail mix; select tart cranberry juice as your beverage of choice and prevent those UTis!
How to Prevent Chronic Constipation
Though constipation affects your intestinal tract and colon, it can also increase your likelihood of an overactive bladder and incontinence due to the pressure that constipation puts on your bladder. Research shows that alleviating constipation may help get your bladder symptoms under control as well. Increase your fiber (add oats or oat bran to your breakfasts; add beans to your salads and soups; increase your raw veggies and fruit; also select raw nuts as your snack of choice).
In addition to these nutrition suggestions, though it sounds counterintuitive, add more water to your diet. Drinking a lot of water may increase your urgency and frequency of urination, but research shows that not drinking enough water may cause constipation and increase your likelihood of a UTI, both of which can heighten your risk of bladder problems. Once again, we see that hydration is key.
I hope these tips help you better your bladder health!
Date May 15, 2016
Tags acidic foods, anti-inflammatory foods, bladder infection, bromelain, constipation, cranberries, fiber, IC, incontinence, interstitial cystitis, quercetin, urinary tract infection, UTI
Comments Leave a comment
Post navigation
Older posts
Twitter
Facebook
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Kelly's Choice, LLC Kellyschoice.org
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy