Eye Migraine: How To Get Rid Of One
Menu
Home
Resources
Migraine Management Book
Pain Management Course
Pain Relief Store
The Latest Migraine News
Site Search
The Basics
Migraine Types
Symptoms
Causes
Triggers
All Articles
Treatment & Prevention
Treatments
Medications
Prevention
Fast Relief
Alternative Treatments
All Articles
Hope & Cope
My Help
Your Stories
Food & Recipes
Meditation
A Cure
Associated Conditions
All Articles
About
About Holly
Contact Me
Newsletter
Legal Pages
Blog
Want the best migraine education? Click here >>
How To Get Rid Of An Eye Migraine
Written by Holly Hazen
How To Get Rid Of An Eye Migraine With These Key Acupuncture Points
Do you get crushing eye pain before an attack? You may not, but if you do, here are 4 key acupressure points to help relieve it. When I feel my eye muscles start to crush down, on one or both eyes, I know I'm in for a long, nasty migraine attack.
This type of migraine has other names too: optical migraines, ocular migraines, visual migraines, monocular migraines, and they can also be called painless, Acephalgic or silent migraines.
Many migraines have visual disturbances and a host of other symptoms that accompany them. And the pain and symptoms can vary greatly between individuals.
For example, you might experience the pain in both eyes, and it continues onto a full blown attack on one side of the head. Or you might just have very mild symptoms and don’t really need any further treatment, as the episode passes in half an hour or so.
If you have moderate to severe attacks, which means the eye migraine symptoms progress to the pain phase, you will do best to use medications to help abort or manage the pain phase. It is common not to have any pain with an optical migraine, but if you have classic migraines the aura will most likely be followed the pain phase.
More extreme examples would be retinal detachment and stroke, which are different things all together. I don’t mention this to scare you, but it is important if you experience any of these symptoms, that you get to your doctor right away to make sure it is not from something more serious.
Here Are A Few Common Eye Migraine Symptoms
Pressure behind or around the eyes
Shimmering, sparkling or spots
Jagged edges of things before you
Slowly expanding field of visual disturbance
No pain
Crushing pain
If you experience mild or no pain, the whole episode could last around 20-30 minutes and then stop, or it could lead on to the pain phase.
A warning signal to be highly aware of is seeing black. Seeing black could mean that something is wrong! So, nothing sparkling or expanding, just black in your vision. If this doesn't pass in about 20 minutes, then something may be up... so get to the hospital immediately. This could be a sign of a stroke - Migraine Stroke Symptoms: What to Watch For.
Is An Eye Migraine A Normal Migraine?
Same Triggers, Same Causes and Same Treatment
Eye migraine has the same triggers as classical migraine: fatigue, skipping meals, caffeine withdrawal, stress and certain foods can trigger a migraine.
They have the same causes as a typical migraine: the chemical reactions cause cortical spreading depression that effects the electrical impulses in your brain, hormones get released, and the blood vessels spasm.
At your earliest warning signal you need to take action. If you wait for the pain phase to kick in, it's too late. Then the hangover comes later.
Getting your timing right when treating an acute attack is crucial.
For mild to moderate migraines you might be able to reduce your symptoms by using caffeine or natural alternatives. Over the counter medications like ibuprofen aka Advil® or Motrin® or acetaminophen aka Tylenol® might work well.
For severe migraines it might be best to consider using abortive medications from the family of triptans, specifically designed to target migraines. Aleve® if you can take it, is a combination of ibuprofen and naproxen. They are not considered for people with a history of heart attacks, strokes or any other vascular disease.
If you get migraines regularly you might want to consider a good prevention strategy or seek a more natural approach. But long term management may be required.
MORE IDEAS YOU'LL LOVE
GET MORE RELIEF
Today I'm sharing the most essential things you need to know to keep your sanity... long term. You can learn to manage your pain better right now... continue reading
So how do you treat your eye migraine symptoms so they don't progress to full blown migraine attack?
How to Relieve Eye Pain From Migraine
According to traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), the eyes relate to the internal organs: the iris is the liver; the corners of the eyes relate to the heart zang; the upper and lower eyelids are related to the spleen; the pupil the kidney. There are more, but let's not get too detailed here.
While using acupuncture needles is considered to be more effective, you can also use your fingertips for massaging these points right at home, when you need to.
I've written all about an acupressure point routine you can use for migraines here - Want A Good Migraine Pressure Point Routine?
Here are some good points to help relieve eye migraine:
1. Massage Around Your Eyes
There are quite a few acupressure points around your eyes so don’t worry if you don’t get the placement exactly right…
1.	First, start with the inner edge close to the bridge of the nose.
2.	Resting your hands on your cheeks, use your ring finger (index or middle finger is fine too), massage the point using gentle pressure and small circular movements. You can do both sides or one at a time.
3.	Do this for about three minutes.
4.	In the same small circular movements, massage at the end of your eyebrow, close to the temple area.
5.	And then press below the center of the eye, on the top of the cheek bone.
6.	Finally go directly up to the middle of the eyebrow and press there.
You can even press directly on the eyes to relieve pressure but be careful. Gentle pressure only. Place your palms on your cheeks and use 2 or 3 fingers to press gently.
2. Massage Around Your Nostrils
1.	Put your index fingers on either side of your nostrils and slowly start your small circular movements in a downward pressure. So… not pressing into the nose but onto your face and bone.
2.	Remember to use gentle pressure here.
3.	You can do this massage daily if you’d like, only for five minutes or so to help prevent a future attack.
3. Massage the Bridge of Your Nose – Drilling Bamboo Point
This acupressure point is great to treat headaches too. It’s located at the very top of your nose, just above and right between your eyes. It’s on either side of the spot where the bridge of your nose meets the inside of your eyebrows. [1]
1.	Using both hands, instead of making small circles (you can if you want) just use your index fingers to apply firm but gentle pressure to both points at once.
2.	Hold the pressure to at least 10 seconds, maximum 15.
3.	Release the point, wait a few seconds and repeat. You can do this for about 10 minutes, or more if the pain is escalating.
If the pain is escalating, and it feels like a migraine is imminent, be sure to take action.
4. Pinging the Fingertips and Toe-tips
1.	Place your index finger and thumb at the tips of the nail bed of each finger and press quite firmly until you pull away - ping - your fingers together.
2.	Do the same for each toe. You can massage these points as well but pinging them is more effective to move chi.
3.	You can do one or two cycles until the pain has subsided.
Eye migraines typically last between twenty to thirty minutes and although the symptoms can be scary at first, you will learn to manage them. They are considered harmless and don't cause any long-term damage.
5. Try Yoga For Your Eyes
Yes, I know... it sounds crazy. But you might reduce muscular stress which in turn will reduce your eye migraine attacks. Try this and let me know how you go...
And... Be Proactive with Healthy Lifestyle Choices
I talk about this on almost every page of this website. Do not underestimate the power of making healthy lifestyle choices. Routines are proven to reduce migraine attacks.
So create and maintain routines around: sleep, meal times (eating nutritious food), and exercise.
I can also recommend protecting your eyes whenever you can. Watch computer screen use... glare and not blinking enough cause eye strain. These can help:
If you like this article, please share it on your favorite social channels...
MIGRAINE SYMPTOMS Related Articles
Migraine Symptoms - Warning Signs of An Attack
Migraine Associated Vertigo: Do’s and Don’ts
Post Migraine Symptoms: What Happens After An Attack
Optical Migraine Symptoms: It's Q & A Time
Chronic Migraine Symptoms: How to Win the Fight
Migraine Aura Without Headache: What You Can Do
How to Get Rid Of An Eye Migraine With These Key Acupuncture Points
Atypical Migraine Symptoms: How To Stop Them
Migraine Vision: 5 Steps For Better Symptom Management
Migraine Visual Disturbance: What You Can Do Right Now
Do These Complicated Migraine Symptoms Scare You?
Cluster Migraine Symptoms: What You Need To Know
Confusing Abdominal Migraine Symptoms
Migraine Headache Symptoms: Your Early Warning Signs
Migraine Aura Symptoms
Taboo Symptoms of Migraine: Anger
Ocular Migraine Symptoms: How To Stop Them
Silent Migraine Symptoms Treatment Tips
The Silent Migraine Symptom I Hate Most
Signs & Symptoms of Migraine
Blurred Vision and Headache: 7 Symptoms You Need To Know About
Migraine Symptoms In Children: How They Differ To Adults
Eye Migraine Page Source:
1. Healthline (2018) The Best Pressure Points to Treat Headaches. Available [online] at: https://www.healthline.com/health/pressure-points-for-headaches. Accessed Feb 10, 2019.
Home
›
Migraine Symptoms
›
How To Get Rid Of An Eye Migraine

AFFILIATE PRODUCTS
FTC Affiliate Disclosure - in some of my posts I recommend carefully chosen, evidence based, migraine relief products. If you buy something through one of those links, I may earn a commission. There are NO extra costs to you.
About
Holly Hazen
The Migraine Coach
Qualified Professional Counselor, Migraine Relief Warrior, Author of www.MigraineSavvy.com
20 Years experience in Counseling
University qualified with Master’s Degree in Counseling and Applied Psychotherapy (MCAP)
Find out more
See my: eBook and eCourse
Ways I can help right now...
Recent Articles
Migraine Treatments: How To Formulate An Effective Plan
Apr 21, 19 08:23 PM
Overwhelmed by your choice of migraine treatments? Click here to find 10 tips to help formulate an effective plan. Be prepared for the next attack so you can stop it as fast as possible.
Read More
Practical Headache Relief Tips From 10 Top Migraine Experts
Apr 21, 19 07:08 PM
What gets rid of migraines fast? The right medications and knowing what to do. Check out these headache relief tips from 10 leading experts. Some tips might surprise you.
Read More
20 Migraine Comments I Never Want to Hear Again
Apr 18, 19 10:59 PM
Some things people say to me around having migraines shocks me. Click here for 20 migraine comments I never want to hear again. Use this as venting therapy with people who understand. Completely!
Read More
Emotional Phases of Migraine: Brace for Impact
Apr 18, 19 10:38 PM
I bet you can tell me how your physical symptoms manifest themselves. But what about the emotional chaos that ensues? Click here for help with the emotional phases of migraine and tame the chaos.
Read More
Causes of Migraine Headache: Parasites
Apr 06, 19 12:40 AM
Can having parasites be one of your causes of migraine headache? A small amount of evidence points to yes. Learn what to watch for and get some natural treatments now. Don’t ignore the signs.
Read More
The Pain Relief Store: How to Manage Your Attacks Better
Apr 05, 19 11:34 PM
Get everything you need all in one spot. The Migraine Savvy Pain Relief Store has tips and tools for instant pain relief and long-term comfort aids. Don’t wait to stop an attack. Act asap.
Read More
Focusing With Chronic Pain
Apr 05, 19 11:22 PM
Intense pain or symptoms driving you crazy? Feeling lost and confused? Learn focusing with chronic pain so you can transform overwhelm and confusion into life forward energy. Your life is waiting!
Read More
Stay in touch... Join me on Facebook
Follow me on Pinterest
Top
↑ Back To Top ↑
Expert help
The Basics
Treatment & Prevention
Medications
My Help
My Book
My Course
Get around
Home
All Articles - The Basics
All Articles - Treatment & Prevention
All Articles - Hope & Cope
All Articles - Associated Conditions
Site Search
Legal stuff
Privacy / Cookie Policy
Disclaimer
Terms and Conditions
Affiliate Disclosure: I earn a commission from the products I recommend
Advertise
Donate
Stay in touch
Join my mailing list
About Me
Contact Me
My Services
Guest Post
Shop
Want to follow me?
Copyright© 2010- MigraineSavvy.com. All rights reserved.
The information appearing on MigraineSavvy.com is intended for educational purposes only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Powered by Solo Build It