How To Reduce Your Asthma Symptoms With Yoga | Tips Curing Disease
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Tips Curing Disease
Tips Curing Disease
Home
Privacy Policy
Beauty Tips
Health Tips
Diseases
Useful Herb
Vitamins
Minerals
How To Reduce Your Asthma Symptoms With Yoga
How To Reduce Your Asthma Symptoms With Yoga
Several studies have shown yoga as an alternate therapy to cure asthma. Apart from this, several studies have shown yoga as an alternate therapy to cure asthma. Yoga is an ancient Hindu discipline that uses postures and breathing techniques (pranayama) to increase lung’s airflow, air capacity, stamina and reduce stress. Simple relaxation techniques also help to reduce stress regulate breathing patterns and also improve lung function. The Benefits of yoga, or any other relaxation techniques, are additional to the benefits of conventional drug treatment, and it is vital that patients continue to take their prescribed medication.
Reduce Your Asthma Symptoms With Yoga
Yoga has been a revelation for many people. They have found that they can improve the quality of their life with the power of yoga. Yoga combines both physical and mental activities, so it engages your whole body rather than just part of it. Some of the benefits of yoga include better breathing, easier relaxation and relief from the symptoms of asthma.
The reason that yoga can help with your asthma is that by using yoga, you will get your body back to a more natural state. Both your body and your mind will be less stressed.
Relaxation and deep breathing were made for each other. Both of them help you to calm down, clear your mind and re-energize your body. By spending a few minutes taking slow, controlled breaths and paying attention to your breathing rather than taking it for granted, you will notice that your breathing automatically becomes calmer. Rather than it's "normal", hyper-active state. In turn, this will bring more energy into your body and calm you down.
Try out this simple breathing relaxation exercise. Read the instructions through a couple of times and then start.
Sit down, making sure that your posture is good and your spine is straight as possible.Place your feet flat on the floor and check that your knees are directly over your feet. Place your hands on top of your legs.
Gently close your eyes.
Concentrate your thoughts on your ribs and your lungs. Inhale slowly and deeply. Notice your lungs filling up and your ribs expanding outwards and upwards. Then slowly exhale, again noticing your lungs slowly releasing the air you've just breathed in and your ribs gradually going back in and down.
Repeat this routine once a day for up to 3 minutes when you first start out. Over the coming days, gradually increase up to 5 and then 10 minutes throughout the day as necessary.
Yoga breathing exercises have been shown to help sufferers of mild asthma. You may still need your medication and any other health devices, although you should notice that you need them less and less as you practice these techniques.
Read more: Indoor Triggers of Asthma and Improving Indoor Air Quality In The Home
Categories: Asthma
Related Post:
Newer Post » « Older Post Home
Category
Avoid Stress
Cancer Disease
Children Health
Eye Disease Treatments
Hair Tips
Health news
Healthy Diet
Heart Diseases Preventing
Immune System
Knee Problems
Learning Studying Researching
Medicinal plants
Men Health
Pregnant Women
Sleep Status
Tips Food
Vitamin
Weight Gaining Tips
Weight Loss Instructions
Women Healthy
Search This Blog
Copyright © Tips Curing Disease. All rights reserved.
Tricks-Collections Themes created by Tricks-Collections.Com