Brand Information
Login
Updated On: 21-04-2019
Home
About Us
Search
FAQs
Feedback
Disclaimer Site Map
Home > Search > List Of All Brands > ALMOGRIL
ALMOGRIL
Brand:
ALMOGRIL
Manufacturer:
LUPIN
Manufacturer Details
LUPIN
Compositions:
Almotriptan 12.5mg/25mg tablets,
Strength
Rate
Packing Style
12.5mg 44.00 10s tablet
25mg 84.00 10s tablets
List of Related Indications:
Migraine
List Of Drugs:
Almotriptan - @ Agents for Migraine
Indication Type Description:
Drug Interaction
Indication
Adverse Reaction
Contra-Indications
Dosages/ Overdosage Etc
Other Information
Patient Information
Pharmacology/ Pharmacokinetics
Interaction with Food
Pregnancy and lactation
Drug Interaction:
Agents for Migraine include
Almotriptan, Eletriptan, Frovatriptan, Naratriptan, Rizatriptan, Sumatriptan, Zolmitriptan
Refer -Sumatriptan
Indication:
Migraine
Agents for Migraine include-
Almotriptan, Eletriptan, Frovatriptan, Naratriptan, Rizatriptan, Sumatriptan, Zolmitriptan
Refer -Sumatriptan
Patent Expiry Date of drugs (Ref - IDMA Publication)
Chemical Category Manufacturer/ US Patent
Ingredient- Marketer Expiration Date
Almotriptan Diabetes Pharmacia 15-10-2013
Corporation
Approved by (DCI) Drug Controller GENERAL - India For Marketing
( Ref- IDMA Publication)
Name of Drug Indication Date of Approval
Almotriprin Tablet 6.25mg/12.5mg 05-10-2012
For acute treatment of migraine attacks with
a history of migraine with or without Aura
in adults
Adverse Reaction:
Serious coronary vasospasm , transient mycardial ischemia, ventricullar fibrillation/ tachycardia, amd MI have been associated with 5-HT1 agonists.
Oral - these agents have been well tolerated. Across all doses, most adverse reactions are mild and transcient and did not lead to long lasting effects.
ALMOTRIPTAN - Cardiovascular- palpitations, tachycardia, vasodilation 1% hypertension, sycope (less than 0.1%)
CNS- dizziness, somlolence, ( > 1% ) anxiety, CNS stimulation, hypesthesia, insomnia, restlessness, shakiness, tremor, vertigo ( 1%) abnormal coordination, change in dreams, depressive symptoms, euphoria, hyperflexia, hypertonia, impaired concentrations, nervousness, neuropathy,nightmares ( < 0.1%)
Dermatologic- dermatitis, diaphoresis, eryhmea, pruritus, rash ( 1% ) photosetivity reactions (< 0.1% )
GI- diarrhea, dyspepsia, vomiting abdominal cramps, s or pain colitis, esophageal reflux, gastritis, gastroenteritis, increased salivation, increased thirst.
Metabolic- hyperglycemia, increased serum CPK, hypercholesrolemia, increase GGT
Musculoskeletal- muscular weakness, myalgia, athlagia, arthiritis, myopathy
Respiratory- bronchitis, dyspnea, epistaxis, pharnygnitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, hyperventilation, sneezing Special senss- conjuntivitis, ear pain, eye irritation, taste alteration., dry eyes, eye pain, otistis otitis media, tinnitus Miscellaneous- headache, asthenia, back pain, chest pain, chills, dysmennorrhea, fatigue, neck pain, rigid back, fever
Contra-Indications:
Injectable preparation used IV because of potential to cause coronary vasospasm, patients wit ischemic heart disease ( angina pectoris )
History of MI , strokes, ischemic attacks TIAs or documented silent ischemia
Prinzmetal variant angina or significant underlying cardiovascular disease
Concurrent use of ( use within 24 hours of ) ergot containg prepn or ergot type medications such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide Concurrent monoamine oxidase inhibitors MAOI therapy ( or within 2 weeks of discontinuing an MAOI ( except eletriptan )
Naratriptan and sumitriptan - cerbrovascular or peripheral vascular syndromes, severe impairment, ( child Pugh grade C) severe renal impairment (Ccr less than 15mL/min ( naratriotan only)
Frovatriotan and eletriptan - peripheral vascular disease Eletriptan - severe hepatic impairment
Warnings/precautions
Risk of myocardial ischemia or MI and other adverse cardiac events- because of the potential of these compounds to cause coronary vasospasm, do not give these agents to patients with documented ischemic or vasopastic coronary artery disease
It is strongly recommended that that 5-HT1 agonists not be given to patients in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors eg. hypertension, hyperchloesrolemia, smoking, obesity, diabetes, strong family history of CAD, female with surgical or physilogical menopause or male older than 40 years of age)
Zolmitriptan- there is a report of at least 1 patient experiencing coronary vasospasm without the history of cardiac disease and with documented history of absence of CAD.
Patients with symptomatic Wolff- Parkinson -White syndrome or arrhthmias associated with cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders should not receive zolmitriptan
Cardiac events and fatalities associated with 5-HT1 agonists- serious adverse cardiac events including acute MI , life threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, and death have been reported within few hours following admin. of 5- HT1 agonists. Considering the use of 5 - HT1 agonists in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low.
Cerbrovascular events and fatalities with 5-HT1 agonists- cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke, and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5-Ht1 agonists and some have resulted in fatalites.
It should be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovacular events eg. stroke, hemorrhage, TIA
Other vasospasm related events- 5-HT1 agonists may cause vasospatic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm . Peripheral vascular ischemiand colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported with 5-HT1 agonists.
Increase in blood pressure- significant increase in blood pressure including hypertensive crisis have been reported on rare occassions in patients with a history of with or without hypertension trreated with 5HT1 agonists.
5-HT1 agonists are contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension.
Renal function impairment- Use rizatriptan and sumitriptan with caution in dialysis patients becausec of decrease in clearance
Hepatic function impairment- Administer with caution to patients with diseases that may alter the absorption,metabolism, or excretion of drugs.
Phtosensitivity- Photosenrization may occur.
Caution patients to take protective measures Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefits justifies the potential risk to the fetus
Lactation- Sumatriptan and eletriptan are excreted in human breast milk. Lactating rats dosed with zolmitriptan had milk levels equivalent to maternal plasma levels at 1 hour and 4 times higher than plasma levels at 4 hours
Naratriptan -related material is excreted in milk of rats. Rizatriptan is extensively excreted in rat milk at a level 5-fold or greater than matenal plasms levels Frovatriptan and its metabolites are excreted in the milk of lactating rats with maximum concentration being 4 fold than seen in blood. Excercise caution when administering to a nursing woman
Children- safety and efficacy have not beenestablished.
Elderly- Pharmacokinetics disposition of 5-HT1 agonists in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults.
Dosages/ Overdosage Etc:
Indication-
Migraine
Dosage-
A single dose of 6.25mg and 12.5mg of almotriptan naleate tablets were effective for acute treatment of migraine in adults, with 12.5mg tending to be more effective dose.
Individuals may vary in response of almotriptan. The choice of dose should therefore bre made on an individual basis
Other Information:
Patent Expiry Date of drugs (Ref - IDMA Publication)
Chemical Category Manufacturer/ US Patent
Ingredient- Marketer Expiration Date
Almotriptan Diabetes Pharmacia 15-10-2013
Corporation
Patient Information:
Injection- sumitriptan
Instruct patients who are advised to self administer sumatriptan in medically unsupervised situations, on the proper use of the product prior to doing so for the first time, including loading the auto-injector and discarding empty syringes For adults the usual dose is a single injection given just below the skin.
Administer as soon as migraine symptoms appear, but it may given at any time during the attack. A second injection can be given if symptoms of migraine return.
Do not use more than 2 injections/24 hours and allow at least 1 hour between each dose. The patient may experience pain or redness at the site of injection, but this usually lasts less than 1 hour.
Intranasal- for adults, Usual dose is a single nasal spray into 1 nostril. If headache returns, a second nasal spray may be given 2 hours after the first spray. For any attack where the patient has no response to the first nasal spray, do not use a second nasal spray without consulting a physician
Do not administer more than 40mg sumatriptan or more than 10mg zolmitriptan nasal spray in any 24 hour period.
Oral- Take a single dose with fluids as soon as symptoms of migraine appear. A second dose may be taken if symptoms return, but no sooner than 2 hours ( sumatriptan, zolmitriptan, eletriptan ) or 4 hours ( naratriptan, ) following the first dose.
For a given attack if there is no response to the first dose do not take a second dose without first consulting a physician. Do not take more than 200mg sumatriptan, more than 5mg naratriptan, more than 10mg zolmitriptan or more than 80mg eletriptan in any 24 hours period.
Tell a physician if the patient has risk factors for heart disease (eg. high blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity, diabetes, smoking, strong family history of heart disease or stroke, a male over 40 years of age postmenopausal women )
These agents are intended to relieve migraine but not to prevent or reduce the number of attacks.
Use only to treat an actual migraine attack or cluster headache ( sumatriptan inj only )
Instruct patients not to use these agents if they are pregnant, think that they might be pregnant, are trying to become pregnant, or not taking adequate contraception , unless they have discussed this with their physician If pain, tightness, pressure or heaviness in the chest , throat, neck or jaw occurs when using these agents, instruct patients to discuss it with a physician before using more.
If the chest pain is severe or does not go away, instruct patients to immediately call a physician If sudden or severe abdominal pain occurs following naratriptan or sumatriptan admin., instruct patient to immediately call a physician
Instruct patients not to take additional dose unless directed by the physician.
Migraine or treatment with Rizatriptan may cause somnolence in some patients. Dizziness also has been reported.
Evalute ability to perform complex tasks during migraine and after administration of Rizatriptan.
Instruct patiens not to remove the blister from the outer pouch until just prior to dosing zolmitriptan or rizatriptan orally -disintegrating tablets.
Instruct patients to peel blister packs open with dry hands and to place orally-disintegrating tablets on the tongue,where it will dissolve and be swalllowed with the saliva.
Inform phenylketonuric patients that riztriptan and zolmitriptan orally-disintegrating tablets contain phenylalamine ( a component of aspartame )
Photosensitization ( photoallergy or photoxicity ) may occur.
Therefore, caution patients to take protective measures (ie. sunscreens, protective clothing ) against exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light until tolerance is determined
Pharmacology/ Pharmacokinetics:
Agents for Migraine include
Almotriptan, Eletriptan, Frovatriptan, Naratriptan, Rizatriptan, Sumatriptan, Zolmitriptan
Pharmacology
Sumatriptan, naratriptan, zolmitriptan, rizatriptan, frovatriptan, eletriptan and almotriptan are selective 5-hydroxytryptamine1 (5-HT1 or serotonin ) receptor agonists.
Pharmacokinetics
Renal Function Impairment -- Amlotriptan - Clearance of amlotriptan was approximately 65% lower in patients with severe renal impairment ( Ccr between 10 and 30mL/min ) and approximately 40% lower in patients with moderate renal impairment ( Ccr between 31 and 71 mL/min).
Hepatic Function Impairment- liver plays an important role in presystemic clearance of 5-HT1 agonists. Accodingly the bioavailability may be markedly increased in patientsdwith liver disease.
Almotriptan- the pharmacokinetics of almotripotan have not been assessed in this population. Based on mechanisms of almotriptan clearance the maximum decrease expected because the hepatic impairment would be 60%
Interaction with Food:
Food has significant effect on oral 5-HT1 agonists bioavailability, but delays sumatriptans Tmax by aaproximately 30 minutes and rizatriptans time to reach peak concentration by 1 hour.
AUC and Cmax of eletriptan are increased approximately 20% to 30% following oral admin. of a high fat meal.
Pregnancy and lactation:
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefits justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
Lactation-
Excercise caution when administering to a nursing woman
Children-
Safety and efficacy have not beenestablished.
Elderly-
Pharmacokinetics disposition of 5-HT agonists in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults.
Search
Look In
Drug/Brand Drug Brand Manufacturer Indication
Keyword
Mode
Starts With Contains
Quick Links
Home
About Us
FAQs
Site Map
Disclaimer
Free Mobile App
Designed By Quadwave Home About Us FAQs Feedback Contact Us Site Map Copyright (c) inPharmation 2014
Disclaimer: Every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided in this Database is authentic and accurate. Commissions or omissions in the database, if any, are purely inadvertent and the site owner shall not accept any liability whatsoever for any adverse consequences of any nature arising to any individual or third party, as a result of usage of this information.