New Eczema Drug Gets FDA's Blessing
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/skin center/ skin a-z list/ new eczema drug gets fda's blessing article
New Eczema Drug Gets FDA's Blessing
Latest Skin News
Breast Implants Top List of Plastic Surgeries
Health Tip: Frostbite
Asbestos Warning About Claire's Cosmetic Products
Stopping the Spread of Bedbugs Begin With Landlord
Major Flooding Can Bring Skin Infection Dangers
Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters!
TUESDAY, March 28, 2017 (HealthDay News) -- Adults plagued by eczema may have a new treatment option, with a new drug approved Tuesday by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Dupixent (dupilumab) injections treat moderate-to-severe eczema in patients whose condition is not controlled by topical treatments or who should not use topical treatments. Eczema inflames the skin, making it red and itchy. It's common in children, but can occur at any age and last a lifetime.
"Eczema can cause significant skin irritation and discomfort for patients, so it is important to have a variety of treatment options available to patients, including those patients whose disease is not controlled by topical therapies," Dr. Julie Beitz said in an FDA news release. She is director of the Office of Drug Evaluation III in the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
However, the drug is far from cheap. A year's worth of the medication costs $37,000, The New York Times reported, although that price tag is still lower than biologic drugs that treat other skin diseases.
Dupixent can be used with or without topical corticosteroids.
One dermatologist welcomed Dupixent to the eczema arsenal.
"As science and technology and research has advanced our understanding of the pathways leading to chronic eczema, new and more defined treatments are becoming available and are very welcome," said Dr. Doris Day, of Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
Day pointed out that these treatments "are easier to administer and give the patient a break from having to apply a cream over some or all of the body several times a day."
The FDA approval is based on three clinical trials that included a total of just over 2,100 adults with moderate-to-severe eczema not adequately controlled by topical medications. After 16 weeks of treatment, those who received Dupixent had clearer skin and less itching than those who took an inactive placebo, the findings showed.
The drug can cause side effects, such as serious allergic reactions and eye problems, including pink eye (conjunctivitis) and inflammation of the cornea (keratitis). Patients who experience eye symptoms -- such as redness, itching, pain or visual changes -- while taking the drug should see a doctor, the FDA said.
In the clinical trials, the most common side effects of the drug included injection site reactions; cold sores in the mouth or on the lips; and eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching.
The safety and effectiveness of Dupixent has not been established in those who are being treated for asthma, the FDA noted. Eczema patients who also have asthma should not adjust or stop their asthma treatment without talking to their doctors, the FDA added.
Dupixent is made by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, based in Eastview, N.Y.
-- Robert Preidt
Copyright © 2017 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR NEXT NEWS ARTICLE
SOURCES: Doris Day, M.D., dermatologist, Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City; The New York Times; U.S. Food and Drug Administration, news release, March 28, 2017
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Related Article
Atopic Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) Quiz: Test Your Skin Disorders IQ
What is eczema (atopic dermatitis)? Is eczema contagious? What causes eczema? What does eczema look like? Learn about home remedies for eczema, how to treat eczema, and how to get rid of eczema.
Read more: Atopic Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) Quiz: Test Your Skin Disorders IQ
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth