Major depressive disorder | Find Me A Cure
Find Me A Cure
Alternative Medicine
Menu
Skip to content
Herbs Glossary
Ailments and remedies
Contact Us
Tag Archives: Major depressive disorder
BALANCE DISORDER
Leave a reply
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
Definition:
A balance disorder is a disturbance that causes an individual to feel unsteady, for example when standing or walking. It may be accompanied by feelings of giddiness or wooziness, or having a sensation of movement, spinning, or floating. Balance is the result of several body systems working together: the visual system (eyes), vestibular system (ears) and proprioception (the body’s sense of where it is in space). Degeneration or loss of function in any of these systems can lead to balance deficits
CLICK & SEE THE PICTURES
Balance disorders can be caused by certain health conditions, medications, or a problem in the inner ear or the brain.
Our sense of balance is primarily controlled by a maze-like structure in our inner ear called the labyrinth, which is made of bone and soft tissue. At one end of the labyrinth is an intricate system of loops and pouches called the semicircular canals and the otolithic organs, which help us maintain our balance. At the other end is a snail-shaped organ called the cochlea, which enables us to hear. The medical term for all of the parts of the inner ear involved with balance is the vestibular system.
Symptoms:
When balance is impaired, an individual has difficulty maintaining upright orientation. For example, an individual may not be able to walk without staggering, or may not even be able to stand. They may have falls or near-falls. The symptoms may be recurring or relatively constant. When symptoms exist, they may include:
*Dizziness or vertigo (a spinning sensation)
*Falling or feeling as if you are going to fall
*Lightheadedness, faintness, or a floating sensation
*Blurred vision
*Confusion or disorientation
Some individuals may also experience nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, faintness, changes in heart rate and blood pressure, fear, anxiety, or panic. Some reactions to the symptoms are fatigue, depression, and decreased concentration. The symptoms may appear and disappear over short time periods or may last for a longer period.
Cognitive dysfunction (disorientation) may occur with vestibular disorders. Cognitive deficits are not just spatial in nature, but also include non-spatial functions such as object recognition memory. Vestibular dysfunction has been shown to adversely affect processes of attention and increased demands of attention can worsen the postural sway associated with vestibular disorders. Recent MRI studies also show that humans with bilateral vestibular damage undergo atrophy of the hippocampus which correlates with their degree of impairment on spatial memory tasks
Causes:
Problems with balance can occur when there is a disruption in any of the vestibular, visual, or proprioceptive systems. Abnormalities in balance function may indicate a wide range of pathologies from causes like inner ear disorders, low blood pressure, brain tumors, and brain injury including stroke.
Many different terms are often used for dizziness, including lightheaded, floating, woozy, giddy, confused, helpless, or fuzzy. Vertigo, Disequilibrium and pre-syncope are the terms in use by most physicians and have more precise definitions.
*Vertigo: Vertigo is the sensation of spinning or having the room spin about you. Most people find vertigo very disturbing and report associated nausea and vomiting.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Disequilibrium: Disequilibrium is the sensation of being off balance, and is most often characterized by frequent falls in a specific direction. This condition is not often associated with nausea or vomiting.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Pre-syncope (links to syncope, which is different): Pre-syncope is a feeling of lightheadedness or simply feeling faint. Syncope, by contrast, is actually fainting. A circulatory system deficiency, such as low blood pressure, can contribute to a feeling of dizziness when one suddenly stands up.
Problems in the skeletal or visual systems, such as arthritis or eye muscle imbalance, may also cause balance problems.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
Related to the ear:
Causes of dizziness related to the ear are often characterized by vertigo (spinning) and nausea. Nystagmus (flickering of the eye, related to the Vestibulo-ocular reflex [VOR]) is often seen in patients with an acute peripheral cause of dizziness.
*Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) – The most common cause of vertigo. It is typically described as a brief, intense sensation of spinning that occurs when there are changes in the position of the head with respect to gravity. An individual may experience BPPV when rolling over to the left or right, upon getting out of bed in the morning, or when looking up for an object on a high shelf. The cause of BPPV is the presence of normal but misplaced calcium crystals called otoconia, which are normally found in the utricle and saccule (the otolith organs) and are used to sense movement. If they fall from the utricle and become loose in the semicircular canals, they can distort the sense of movement and cause a mismatch between actual head movement and the information sent to the brain by the inner ear, causing a spinning sensation.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Labyrinthitis – An inner ear infection or inflammation causing both dizziness (vertigo) and hearing loss.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Vestibular neuronitis – an infection of the vestibular nerve, generally viral, causing vertigo
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Cochlear Neuronitis – an infection of the Cochlear nerve, generally viral, causing sudden deafness but no vertigo.
*Trauma – Injury to the skull may cause either a fracture or a concussion to the organ of balance. In either case an acute head injury will often result in dizziness and a sudden loss of vestibular function.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Surgical trauma to the lateral semicircular canal (LSC) is a rare complication which does not always result in cochlear damage. Vestibular symptoms are pronounced. Dizziness and instability usually persist for several months and sometimes for a year or more.
*Ménière’s disease – an inner ear fluid balance disorder that causes lasting episodes of vertigo, fluctuating hearing loss, tinnitus (a ringing or roaring in the ears), and the sensation of fullness in the ear. The cause of Ménière’s disease is unknown.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Perilymph fistula – a leakage of inner ear fluid from the inner ear. It can occur after head injury, surgery, physical exertion or without a known cause.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Superior canal dehiscence syndrome – a balance and hearing disorder caused by a gap in the temporal bone, leading to the dysfunction of the superior canal.
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
*Bilateral vestibulopathy – a condition involving loss of inner ear balance function in both ears. This may be caused by certain antibiotics, anti-cancer, and other drugs or by chemicals such as solvents, heavy metals, etc., which are ototoxic; or by diseases such as syphilis or autoimmune disease; or other causes. In addition, the function of the semicircular canal can be temporarily affected by a number of medications or combinations of medications.
Related to the brain and central nervous system:
Brain related causes are less commonly associated with isolated vertigo and nystagmus but can still produce signs and symptoms, which mimic peripheral causes. Disequilibrium is often a prominent feature.
*Degenerative: age related decline in balance function
*Infectious: meningitis, encephalitis, epidural abscess, syphilis
*Circulatory: cerebral or cerebellar ischemia or hypoperfusion, stroke, lateral medullary syndrome (Wallenberg’s syndrome)
*Autoimmune: Cogan syndrome
*Structural: Arnold-Chiari malformation, hydrocephalus
*Systemic: multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease
*Vitamin deficiency: Vitamin B12 deficiency
*CNS or posterior neoplasms, benign or malignant
*Neurological: Vertiginous epilepsy
*Other – There are a host of other causes of dizziness not related to the ear.
*Mal de debarquement is rare disorder of imbalance caused by being on board a ship. Patients suffering from this condition experience disequilibrium even when they get off the ship. Typically treatments for seasickness are ineffective for this syndrome.
*Motion sickness – a conflict between the input from the various systems involved in balance causes an unpleasant sensation. For this reason, looking out of the window of a moving car is much more pleasant than looking inside the vehicle.
*Migraine-associated vertigo
*Toxins, drugs, medications
Pathophysiology:
The semicircular canals, found within the vestibular apparatus, let us know when we are in a rotary (circular) motion. The semicircular canals are fluid-filled. Motion of the fluid tells us if we are moving. The vestibule is the region of the inner ear where the semicircular canals converge, close to the cochlea (the hearing organ). The vestibular system works with the visual system to keep objects in focus when the head is moving. This is called the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR).
Click & see :
Movement of fluid in the semicircular canals signals the brain about the direction and speed of rotation of the head – for example, whether we are nodding our head up and down or looking from right to left. Each semicircular canal has a bulbed end, or enlarged portion, that contains hair cells. Rotation of the head causes a flow of fluid, which in turn causes displacement of the top portion of the hair cells that are embedded in the jelly-like cupula. Two other organs that are part of the vestibular system are the utricle and saccule. These are called the otolithic organs and are responsible for detecting linear acceleration, or movement in a straight line. The hair cells of the otolithic organs are blanketed with a jelly-like layer studded with tiny calcium stones called otoconia. When the head is tilted or the body position is changed with respect to gravity, the displacement of the stones causes the hair cells to bend.
click & see
The balance system works with the visual and skeletal systems (the muscles and joints and their sensors) to maintain orientation or balance. For example, visual signals are sent to the brain about the body’s position in relation to its surroundings. These signals are processed by the brain, and compared to information from the vestibular, visual and the skeletal systems.
Diagnosis:
Diagnosis of a balance disorder is complicated because there are many kinds of balance disorders and because other medical conditions — including ear infections, blood pressure changes, and some vision problems — and some medications may contribute to a balance disorder. A person experiencing dizziness should see a physiotherapist or physician for an evaluation. A physician can assess for a medical disorder, such as a stroke or infection, if indicated. A physiotherapist can assess balance or a dizziness disorder and provide specific treatment.
The primary physician may request the opinion of an otolaryngologist to help evaluate a balance problem. An otolaryngologist is a physician/surgeon who specializes in diseases and disorders of the ear, nose, throat, head, and neck, sometimes with expertise in balance disorders. He or she will usually obtain a detailed medical history and perform a physical examination to start to sort out possible causes of the balance disorder. The physician may require tests and make additional referrals to assess the cause and extent of the disruption of balance. The kinds of tests needed will vary based on the patient’s symptoms and health status. Because there are so many variables, not all patients will require every test.
Diagnostic testing:
Tests of vestibular system (balance) function include electronystagmography (ENG), Videonystagmograph (VNG), rotation tests, Computerized Dynamic Posturography (CDP), and Caloric reflex test.
Tests of auditory system (hearing) function include pure-tone audiometry, speech audiometry, acoustic-reflex, electrocochleography (ECoG), otoacoustic emissions (OAE), and auditory brainstem response test (ABR; also known as BER, BSER, or BAER).
Other diagnostic tests include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerized axial tomography (CAT, or CT).
Treatment and Prevention:
There are various options for treating balance disorders. One option includes treatment for a disease or disorder that may be contributing to the balance problem, such as ear infection, stroke, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, Parkinson’s, neuromuscular conditions, acquired brain injury, cerebellar dysfunctions and/or ataxia. Individual treatment will vary and will be based upon assessment results including symptoms, medical history, general health, and the results of medical tests. Additionally, tai chi may be a cost-effective method to prevent falls in the elderly.
Many types of balance disorders will require balance training, prescribed by an occupational therapist or physiotherapist. Physiotherapists often administer standardized outcome measures as part of their assessment in order to gain useful information and data about a patient’s current status. Some standardized balance assessments or outcome measures include but are not limited to the Functional Reach Test, Clinical Test for Sensory Integration in Balance (CTSIB), Berg Balance Scale and/or Timed Up and Go The data and information collected can further help the physiotherapist develop an intervention program that is specific to the individual assessed. Intervention programs may include training activities that can be used to improve static and dynamic postural control, body alignment, weight distribution, ambulation, fall prevention and sensory function. Although treatment programs exist which seek to aid the brain in adapting to vestibular injuries, it is important to note that it is simply that – an adaptation to the injury. Although the patient’s balance is restored, the balance system injury still exists
Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV):
It is caused by misplaced crystals within the ear. Treatment, simply put, involves moving these crystals out of areas that cause vertigo and into areas where they do not. A number of exercises have been developed to shift these crystals. The following article explains with diagrams how these exercises can be performed at the office or at home with some help: The success of these exercises depends on their being performed correctly.
The two exercises explained in the above article are:
*The Brandt-Daroff Exercises, which can be done at home and have a very high success rate but are unpleasant and time consuming to perform.
*The Epley’s exercises are often performed by a doctor or other trained professionals and should not be performed at home. Various devices are available for home BPPV treatment.
Ménière’s disease:
*Diet:
Dietary changes such as reducing intake of sodium (salt) may help. For some people, reducing alcohol, caffeine, and/or avoiding nicotine may be helpful. Stress has also been shown to make the symptoms associated with Ménière’s worse.
*Drugs:
#Beta-histine (Serc) is available in some countries and is thought to reduce the frequency of symptoms
#Diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide (Diazide) have also been shown to reduce the frequency of symptoms
#Aminoglycoside antibiotics (gentamicin) can be used to treat Ménière’s disease. Systemic streptomycin (given by injection) and topical gentamicin (given directly to the inner ear) are useful for their ability to affect the hair cells of the balance system. Gentamicin also can affect the hair cells of the cochlea, though, and cause hearing loss in about 10% of patients. In cases that do not respond to medical management, surgery may be indicated.
*Surgery for Ménière’s disease is a last resort.
#Vestibular neuronectomy can cure Ménière’s disease but is very involved surgery and not widely available. It involves drilling into the skull and cutting the balance nerve just as it is about to enter the brain.
#Labyrinthectomy (surgical removal of the whole balance organ) is more widely available as a treatment but causes total deafness in the affected ear.
Labyrinthitis:
Treatment includes balance retraining exercises (vestibular rehabilitation). The exercises include movements of the head and body specifically developed for the patient. This form of therapy is thought to promote habituation, adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, and/or sensory substitution. Vestibular retraining programs are administered by professionals with knowledge and understanding of the vestibular system and its relationship with other systems in the body.
Bilateral vestibular loss:
Dysequilibrium arising from bilateral loss of vestibular function – such as can occur from ototoxic drugs such as gentamicin – can also be treated with balance retraining exercises (vestibular rehabilitation) although the improvement is not likely to be full recovery
Medication:
Sedative drugs are often prescribed for vertigo and dizziness, but these usually treat the symptoms rather than the underlying cause. Lorazepam (Ativan) is often used and is a sedative which has no effect on the disease process rather helps patients cope with the sensation.
Anti-nauseants, like those prescribed for motion sickness, are also often prescribed but do not affect the prognosis of the disorder.
Specifically for Meniere’s disease a medication called Serc (Beta-histine) is available. There is some evidence to support it is effective to reduce the frequency of attacks. Also Diuretics, like Diazide (HCTZ/triamterene), are effective in many patients. Finally, ototoxic medications delivered either systemically or through the eardrum can eliminate the vertigo associated with Meniere’s in many cases, although there is about a 10% risk of further hearing loss when using ototoxic medications.
Treatment is specific for underlying disorder of balance disorder:
#anticholinergics
#antihistamines
#benzodiazepines
#calcium channel antagonists, specifically Verapamil and Nimodipine
#GABA modulators, specifically gabapentin and baclofen
#Neurotransmitter reuptake inhibitors such as SSRI’s, SNRI’s and Tricyclics
Research:
Scientists at the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) are working to understand the various balance disorders and the complex interactions between the labyrinth, other balance-sensing organs, and the brain. NIDCD scientists are studying eye movement to understand the changes that occur in aging, disease, and injury, as well as collecting data about eye movement and posture to improve diagnosis and treatment of balance disorders. They are also studying the effectiveness of certain exercises as a treatment option.
Other projects supported by the NIDCD include studies of the genes essential to normal development and function in the vestibular system. NIDCD scientists are also studying inherited syndromes of the brain that affect balance and coordination.
The NIDCD supports research to develop new tests and refine current tests of balance and vestibular function. For example, NIDCD scientists have developed computer-controlled systems to measure eye movement and body position by stimulating specific parts of the vestibular and nervous systems. Other tests to determine disability, as well as new physical rehabilitation strategies, are under investigation in clinical and research settings.
Scientists at the NIDCD hope that new data will help to develop strategies to prevent injury from falls, a common occurrence among people with balance disorders, particularly as they grow older.
Disclaimer: This information is not meant to be a substitute for professional medical advise or help. It is always best to consult with a Physician about serious health concerns. This information is in no way intended to diagnose or prescribe remedies.This is purely for educational purpose.
Resources:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balance_disorder
http://www.medicinenet.com/vestibular_balance_disorders/article.htm#what_is_a_balance_disorder
Related articles
New centre to attest schools and colleges
Scientists Tested Therapy Against Antidepressants – Here’s What They Found
Scientists Tested Therapy Against Antidepressants – Here’s What They Found
Vertigo or Inner Ear Imbalance disorder
The Fine Balance
Balance
Study: Holistic Approach to Alzheimer’s Treatment May Reverse Memory Loss
Altered Functional Connectivity between Emotional and Cognitive Resting State Networks in Euthymic Bipolar I Disorder Patients
Balancing These 10 Minerals Is Crucial To Your Health
This entry was posted in Ailmemts & Remedies and tagged Abnormality (behavior), Amygdala, Antidepressant, Brain, Cognitive behavioral therapy, List of people with major depressive disorder, Magnetic resonance imaging, Major depressive disorder, Prefrontal cortex, Psychotherapy on November 14, 2014 by Mukul.
Electro-Convulsive Therapy
Leave a reply
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
Definition:
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure in which electric currents are passed through the brain, deliberately triggering a brief seizure. Electroconvulsive therapy seems to cause changes in brain chemistry that can immediately reverse symptoms of certain mental illnesses. It often works when other treatments are unsuccessful.
click to see
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), formerly known as electroshock, is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are electrically induced in anesthetized patients for therapeutic effect. Its mode of action is unknown. Today, ECT is most often recommended for use as a treatment for severe depression which has not responded to other treatment, and is also used in the treatment of mania and catatonia. It was first introduced in the 1938 and gained widespread use as a form of treatment in the 1940s and 1950s.
click to see
Informed consent is a standard of modern electroconvulsive therapy. According to the Surgeon General, involuntary treatment is uncommon in the United States and is typically only used in cases of great extremity, and only when all other treatment options have been exhausted and the use of ECT is believed to be a potentially life saving treatment. However, caution must be exercised in interpreting this assertion as, in an American context, there does not appear to have been any attempt to survey at national level the usage of ECT as either an elective or involuntary procedure in almost twenty years. In one of the few jurisdictions where recent statistics on ECT usage are available, a national audit of ECT by the Scottish ECT Accreditation Network indicated that 77% of patients who received the treatment in 2008 were capable of giving informed consent
click to see
Electroconvulsive therapy can differ in its application in three ways: electrode placement, frequency of treatments, and the electrical waveform of the stimulus. These three forms of application have significant differences in both adverse side effects and positive outcomes. After treatment, drug therapy is usually continued, and some patients receive continuation/maintenance ECT. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, drug therapy is continued during ECT.
click to see
The treatment involves placing electrodes on the temples, on one or both sides of the patient’s head, and delivering a small electrical current across the brain, with the patient sedated or under anaesthetic. The aim is to produce a seizure lasting up to a minute, after which the brain activity should return to normal. Patients may have one or more treatment a week, and perhaps more than a dozen treatments in total.
Although ECT has been used since the 1930s, there is still no generally accepted theory to explain how it works. One of the most popular ideas is that it causes an alteration in how the brain responds to chemical signals or neurotransmitters.
Why & when it is done?
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) can provide rapid, significant improvements in severe symptoms of a number of mental health conditions. It may be an effective treatment in someone who is suicidal, for instance, or end an episode of severe mania.
ECT is used to treat:
*Severe depression, particularly when accompanied by detachment from reality (psychosis), a desire to commit suicide or refusal to eat.
*Treatment-resistant depression, long-term depression that doesn’t improve with medications or other treatments.
*Schizophrenia, particularly when accompanied by psychosis, a desire to commit suicide or hurt someone else, or refusal to eat.
*Severe mania, a state of intense euphoria, agitation or hyperactivity that occurs as part of bipolar disorder. Other signs of mania include impaired decision making, impulsive or risky behavior, substance abuse and psychosis.
click to see
*Catatonia, characterized by lack of movement, fast or strange movements, lack of speech, and other symptoms. It’s associated with schizophrenia and some other psychiatric disorders. In some cases, catatonia is caused by a medical illness.
Electroconvulsive therapy is sometimes used as a last-resort treatment for:
#Treatment-resistant obsessive compulsive disorder, severe obsessive compulsive disorder that doesn’t improve with medications or other treatments
#Parkinson’s disease, epilepsy, and certain other conditions that cause movement problems or seizures
*Tourette syndrome that doesn’t improve with medications or other treatments
ECT may be a good treatment option when medications aren’t tolerated or other forms of therapy haven’t worked. In some cases ECT is used:
#During pregnancy, when medications can’t be taken because they might harm the developing fetus
#In older adults who can’t tolerate drug side effects
#In people who prefer ECT treatments over taking medications
#When ECT has been successful in the past
Risk factor:–
Patients are given short-acting anaesthetics, muscle relaxants and breathe pure oxygen during the short procedure in order to minimise the risks. However, although ECT is much safer than it was, there are still side effects to the treatment. The most common are headache, stiffness, confusion and temporary memory loss on awaking from the treatment – some of these can be reduced by placing electrodes only on one side of the head. Memory loss can be permanent in a few cases, and the spasms associated with the seizure can cause fractured vertebrae and tooth damage. However, the recommended use of muscle relaxant nowadays makes the latter a very rare occurrence. Patients can also experience numbness in the fingers and toes.
The death rate from ECT used to be quoted as one for every 1,000 patients, but with smaller amounts of electric current used in modern treatments, accompanied by more safety techniques, this has been reduced to as little as four or five in 100,000 patients.
Recomendations:–
A common argument against ECT is that it destroys brain cells, with experiments conducted on animals in the 1940s often cited as evidence. However, modern studies have yet to reproduce these findings in the human brain.
Some activists, however, still campaign against the widespread use of ECT in psychiatry, quoting those cases which have resulted in long-term damage or even death, whether because of the built-in chance of problems, or through errors by doctors.
Experts say that given the correct staff training, and when used for the right clinical conditions, ECT can ‘dramatically’ benefit the patient. An audit of ECT in Scotland between February 1996 and August 1999 said concerns about unacceptable side effects, effectiveness of the treatment and disproportionate use on elderly people were ‘largely without foundation’.
It said that in nearly three quarters of cases people with depressive illness showed ‘a definite improvement’ after ECT. Women were more likely to receive the treatment than men, but the auditors said this was because they were twice as likely to suffer from depression. Only 12 per cent of patients who got ECT were aged over 75. However, the Royal College of Psychiatrists has admitted that in the past the treatment has been administered by untrained, unsupervised junior doctors. However, modern guidelines have changed this and ECTAS (ECT Accreditation Services) exist to check that such treatment is being given safely and efficiently.
Guidelines on ECT from NICE (2003) recommend that it’s used only to achieve rapid and short-term improvement of severe symptoms after an adequate trial of other treatment. options has proven ineffective and/or when the condition is considered to be potentially life-threatening, in individuals with:
•Severe depressive illness
•Catatonia
•Prolonged or severe manic episode
NICE also says that ‘valid consent should be obtained in all cases where the individual has the ability to grant or refuse consent. The decision to use ECT should be made jointly by the individual and the clinician(s) responsible for treatment, on the basis of an informed discussion. This discussion should be enabled by the provision of full and appropriate information about the general risks associated with ECT and about the risks and potential benefits specific to that individual. Consent should be obtained without pressure or coercion, which may occur as a result of the circumstances and clinical setting, and the individual should be reminded of their right to withdraw consent at any point. There should be strict adherence to recognised guidelines about consent and the involvement of patient advocates and/or carers to facilitate informed discussion is strongly encouraged.’
Click to learn more in detail about Electro-Convulsive Therapy
You may click to see:-
Keep fighting even when depression treatments don’t work
Video:Electroconvulsive therapy
DSM-IV Codes
Harold A. Sackeim
Insulin shock therapy
History of electroconvulsive therapy in the United Kingdom
Psychiatric survivors movement
Consumer/Survivor/Ex-Patient Movement
List of people who have undergone electroconvulsive therapy
Resources:
http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/electroconvulsive-therapy/MY00129
http://www.bbc.co.uk/health/physical_health/conditions/electro_convulsive_therapy.shtml
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electroconvulsive_therapy
http://www.minddisorders.com/Del-Fi/Electroconvulsive-therapy.html
Related articles
Electroconvulsive Therapy Under New Scrutiny (webmd.com)
The effectiveness of electroconvulsive therapy: A literature review (bipolarblast.wordpress.com)
FDA mulls future of electroshock therapy (cnn.com)
Shock Therapy: Old Treatment, New Scrutiny (cbsnews.com)
“FDA says ECT machines should undergo rigorous testing” and related posts (media-dis-n-dat.blogspot.com)
FDA panel deems electroshock devices high risk (cnn.com)
What Kind of Therapy is Out There? (try-therapy.com)
The Facts about Dysphoric Mania (brighthub.com)
Depression and Electroshock: 10 Surprising Truths (cbsnews.com)
Wednesday – Must be ECT Day (suddenlybipolar.wordpress.com)
This entry was posted in Therapetic treatment and tagged Askari, Behavior, Boston, Cognitive behavioral therapy, Compulsive behavior, Derealization, ECT, Electroconvulsive therapy, Exposure and response prevention, Exposure therapy, Food and Drug Administration, Fridays (TV series), Health, Major depressive disorder, Mania, Mental disorder, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, Royal College of Psychiatrists on April 19, 2011 by Mukul.
Exercise the Best Drug for Depression
Leave a reply
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
Psychologist Jasper Smits is working on an unorthodox treatment for anxiety and mood disorders. The treatment is free and has no side effects. What is it? Exercise.
Research has shown again and again that patients who follow aerobic-exercise regimens see improvement in their depression — improvements comparable to that of those treated with medication. Exercise not only relieves depressive symptoms but also appears to prevent them from recurring.
According to Times Magazine:–
“Molecular biologists and neurologists have begun to show that exercise may alter brain chemistry in much the same way that antidepressant drugs do — regulating the key neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine.”
Source: Time Magazine June 19, 2010
Related articles by Zemanta
Does Exercise Treat Depression as Well as Drugs? (time.com)
Is Exercise the Best Drug for Depression? (time.com)
Is Exercise the Best Drug for Depression? – Time (time.com)
Natural Treatment of Depression (brighthub.com)
Fighting Depression Naturally (lifescript.com)
This entry was posted in Healthy Tips and tagged Antidepressant, Anxiety, Depression, Disorders, Health, Major depressive disorder, Mental Health, Mood disorder on July 13, 2010 by Mukul.
Benefits of Sleeping ‘Early’
1 Reply
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
Adolescents who went to bed early were less likely to suffer from depression or contemplate suicide, a new study has found.
click to see
It shows that adolescents with parental-set bedtimes of midnight or later were 24 percent more likely to suffer from depression and 20 percent more likely to have suicidal thoughts than those with parental-set bedtimes set for 10 p.m. or earlier.
Those who reported sleeping five or fewer hours per night were 71 percent more likely to suffer from depression and 48 percent more likely to think about committing suicide than those who reported eight hours of sleep.
Also, participants who reported that they “usually get enough sleep” were significantly less likely to suffer from depression and suicidal ideation.
James E. Gangwisch, assistant professor at the Columbia University Medical Centre (CUMC), who led the study, said the results strengthen the argument that short sleep duration could play a role in a person’s history of depression.
“Our results are consistent with the theory that inadequate sleep is a risk factor for depression, working with other risk and protective factors through multiple possible causal pathways to the development of this mood disorder,” said Gangwisch.
“Adequate quality sleep could, therefore, be a preventive measure against depression and a treatment for the disease,” added Gangwisch, according to a CUMC release.
Data were collected from 15,659 adolescents and their parents who had participated in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health), a school-based, nationally representative, probability-based sample of US students in grades seven to 12 in 1994 to 1996.
Source: The study was published in the Friday issue of Sleep. (Republished in the Times Of India)
Related articles by Zemanta
More sleep for children may decrease calorie intake
Kids who sleep more, may eat less, new study finds
Children who sleep more eat fewer calories
Caffeinate Mountain Lion to prevent it from sleeping
How to Manufacture the Best Night of Sleep in Your Life
Study Reveals Effects of Excessive Sleep on Children’s Eating Habits
Sleep link to teenage depression (news.bbc.co.uk)
Early to Bed Means Less Depression and Suicidal Ideation for Teens (grantlawrence.blogspot.com)
How sleeping late can lead to depression in teenagers (kevinmd.com)
Early bedtimes may protect teens from depression (nationalpost.com)
This entry was posted in Featured and tagged Add new tag, Columbia University, Disorders, Health, James E. Gangwisch, Major depressive disorder, Mental Health, National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health, Suicide on February 10, 2010 by Mukul.
Why Anti-Depressants Don’t Always Work?
Leave a reply
Products from Amazon.com
‹ ›
More than half the people who take anti-depressants seldom get relief. A bnew study says this is because drugs designed to treat depression aim at the wrong target.
..…..CLICK & SEE
The study led by Eva Redei, psychiatry professor at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine (NUFSM), found powerful molecular evidence that quashes the popular dogma that stress generally triggers depression.
Her new research reveals that there is almost no overlap between stress-related genes and depression-related genes.
Her findings are based on extensive studies with a model of severely depressed rats that mirror many behavioural and physiological abnormalities found in patients with major depression.
“This is a huge study and statistically powerful,” Redei said. “This research opens up new routes to develop new anti-depressants that may be more effective. There hasn’t been an antidepressant based on a novel concept in 20 years.”
She took four genetically different strains of rats and exposed them to chronic stress for two weeks. Later, she identified genes in the brain regions (linked with depression in rats and human), that had increased or decreased in response to the stress in all four strains.
“This finding is clear evidence that at least in an animal model, chronic stress does not cause the same molecular changes as depression does,” said Redei, according to a NUFSM statement.
These findings were presented at a recent Neuroscience conference in Chicago.
Source: The Times Of India
Related articles
Antidepressant epigenetic action of a common fitness supplement
“Chimps Take Anti-Depressants too”
Paxil Birth Defect Claims Now Being Investigated by Resource4thePeople Attorneys
Experts: Depression Chemical Imbalance Doesn’t Exist
Trial Of Spray To Treat Dry Mouth Sensation Caused By Anti-Depressants
Confirmed: ‘Batman’ Shooter James Holmes Was On Psychotropic Drugs
mental illness, medication and God
When God Is Not Enough: Religious States Have Highest Rates of Anti-Depressant Use
Battling Depression? Help Is Waiting For You Here!
Depression series – Empaths and Trauma or why am I clinically depressed?
This entry was posted in News on Health & Science and tagged Antidepressant, Disorders, Health, Major depressive disorder, Mental Health, Mood, Research, Times Of India on October 25, 2009 by Mukul.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Categories
Acupunture (7)
Advice against Health Hazards (13)
Ailmemts & Remedies (819)
All-about-tooth-and-tooth-therapy (9)
Animal Hide, Shell & Others (9)
Anti Drug Movement (25)
Ayurvedic (22)
Biotherapy (5)
Chemicals & Minerals (7)
Diagnonistic Test (71)
Dry Fruit (14)
Environmental Pollution (18)
Exercise (92)
Featured (432)
Fish (19)
Fruits & Vegetables (96)
Health & Fitness (21)
Health Alert (81)
Health Problems & Solutions (60)
Health Quaries (42)
Healthy Tips (347)
Herbal Beauty & Body Care (10)
Herbal Care (11)
Herbs & Plants (2,813)
Herbs & Plants (Spices) (148)
Home remedies (5)
Homeopathy (7)
Human Organ Transplantation (7)
immunisation (2)
Insect Bites (8)
Lentils (6)
Meditation (27)
Micro Surgery (2)
News (1)
News on Health & Science (1,425)
Our body extricts (5)
Pediatric (102)
Phytotherapy (1)
POLUTION CONTROL (2)
Positive thinking (360)
Pregnancy & Child birth (8)
Psychiatry (5)
Raikey (1)
Remedy of Common Incidences (3)
Scientific Studies (1)
Snake Bites (1)
Suppliments our body needs (47)
Tasty dishes (1)
Therapetic treatment (35)
Therapies (18)
Uncategorized (17)
WHY CORNER (43)
Yoga (97)
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Herbs Glossary
Ailments and remedies
Contact Us
Proudly powered by WordPress