L theanine research - nootropics information
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance, and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site, you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
Slideshare uses cookies to improve functionality and performance, and to provide you with relevant advertising. If you continue browsing the site, you agree to the use of cookies on this website. See our Privacy Policy and User Agreement for details.
SlideShare Explore Search You
Upload
Login
Signup
Submit Search
Home
Explore
Presentation Courses
PowerPoint Courses
by LinkedIn Learning
Successfully reported this slideshow.
We use your LinkedIn profile and activity data to personalize ads and to show you more relevant ads. You can change your ad preferences anytime.
L theanine research - nootropics information
Upcoming SlideShare
Loading in …5
×
1
1 of 9
Like this document? Why not share!
Share
Email
The AI Rush by Jean-Baptiste Dumont 1174532 views
AI and Machine Learning Demystified... by Carol Smith 3658807 views
10 facts about jobs in the future by Pew Research Cent... 682393 views
2017 holiday survey: An annual anal... by Deloitte United S... 1098942 views
Harry Surden - Artificial Intellige... by Harry Surden 643989 views
Inside Google's Numbers in 2017 by Rand Fishkin 1225528 views
Share SlideShare
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Embed
Size (px)
Start on
Show related SlideShares at end
WordPress Shortcode
Link
L theanine research - nootropics information
122 views
Share
Like
Download
...
Nootropics Information
Follow
Published on Apr 12, 2019
Scientific Review of Nootropic L-Theanine. Usage, Benefits, Effects, Mechanism of Action, Dosage, Side Effects, User Experiences, and FAQs. Published by Nootropics Information on https://nootro.info/nootropics/l-theanine/
...
Published in: Health & Medicine
0 Comments
1 Like
Statistics
Notes
Full Name
Comment goes here.
12 hours ago Delete Reply Block
Are you sure you want to Yes No
Your message goes here
Post
Be the first to comment
Nootropics Information
1 week ago
No Downloads
Views
Total views
122
On SlideShare
0
From Embeds
0
Number of Embeds
65
Actions
Shares
0
Downloads
0
Comments
0
Likes
1
Embeds 0
No embeds
No notes for slide
L theanine research - nootropics information
1. L-Theanine Introduction – Bene ts & E ects – Mechanism of Action – Dosage – Side E ects – FAQ Summary: L-theanine is a natural amino acid, often called the “natural xanax”. It almost only exists in green tea leaves. It works brilliantly in unwinding and relaxing the body and brain without causing drowsiness, while reducing stress and increasing cognitive function. Due to not causing drowsiness, it is the perfect choice to combine with stimulants of any sort to take the edge o . L- theanine skeletal structure Table of Contents [show]
2. L-Theanine - Nootropics InformationL-Theanine - Nootropics InformationL-Theanine - Nootropics Information Watch later Share L-theanine Video TTS Introduction What is L-Theanine? L-theanine is a relaxing, non-sedating amino acid that is synergistic with stimulants to ‘take the edge o .’ Especially with co ee, it synergizes so well resulting in clean energy, furthermore preventing the nasty ca eine crash that many people experience after ca eine intake. It is also useful on its own, promoting relaxation and minimizing stress without causing drowsiness. A combination of L-theanine with ca eine at a 2:1 ratio is increasing in popularity as a remarkably synergetic combination that boosts cognition and attention. It is an amino acid that naturally exists in green tea leaves as its main active ingredient, and that is the only source that provides it. It is famous for its fantastic nootropic features such as improving memory, expanding learning capacity, as well as providing a calming, zen-like e ect. L-Theanine, for the most part, is a relaxing but not sedating amino acid that is synergistic with stimulants such as ca eine as it can ‘take the edge o ’. It is e ective by itself in the standard
3. supplemental dosages as well, and although it can be attained via a diet high in green tea ingestion that is the only dietary source of L-Theanine. Examine.com L-Theanine has also been in the list of 6 best natural nootropics as second to ca eine. Bene ts & Effects What Are L-Theanine Bene ts? 1. Reduces Anxiety & Stress 2. Improves Memory, Attention, and Cognition 3. Enhances Sleep Quality 4. Promotes Longevity and Increases Lifespan 5. Reduces Symptoms of Depression 6. Promotes Relaxation without causing Drowsiness 7. Signi cantly Reduces Symptoms of Schizophrenia 8. Enhances Blood Flow and Stimulates Nitric Oxide Production 9. Reduces Negative E ects of Ca eine & Improves Cognitive Boosting E ects 10. Additional Bene ts Supporting Research: L-Theanine Reduces Anxiety & Stress A review by researchers of a small set of trials concluded that there are bene ts of L-theanine in reducing acute stress and anxiety in people with stressful conditions. [R] Oral intake of L-theanine in rats at feasible dosages reduces circulating biomarkers of stress with or without an actual stressor being present. Therefore, it reduces the adverse e ects of stress such as memory impairment. Reductions of perceived stress reported in human subjects given oral theanine at the standard dosages. [R] [R] [R] L-Theanine Improves Memory, Attention, and Cognition In a 16-week long study on individuals with mild cognitive impairment, supplementing with l-theanine shows an improved delayed recognition as well as immediate recall comparing to those receiving a
4. placebo during a mental exercise. Furthermore, attention span and alertness levels increased during the memory test. [R] L-Theanine Enhances Sleep Quality Theanine enhances sleep quality. In a study measuring sleep time with individuals supplementing with L-theanine, sleep time increases by 11 and up to 21%, therefore making it a valuable compound for achieving better nighttime sleep. (R) L-Theanine Promotes Longevity and Increases Lifespan In a study using the model organism C. elegans, L-theanine shows to promote longevity and promote healthy and increased lifespan. Due to those ndings, the study suggests that the compound might have similar e ects on mammals and humans (R) L-Theanine Reduces Symptoms of Depression L-Theanine intake for a period of eight weeks during an open-label study helped easing depressive symptoms, anxiety, sleep disturbance, as well as cognitive impairments in subject su ering major depressive disorder. (R) L-Theanine Promotes Relaxation without causing Drowsiness Theanine is proving to be a great agent in promoting relaxation without the accompanying e ect of drowsiness. The company developing ‘suntheanine’, l-theanine supplement, won the 1998’s Food Ingredient Research Award for the outstanding research and ndings. (R) L-Theanine Signi cantly Reduces Symptoms of Schizophrenia In persons diagnosed schizophrenia receiving 400mg L-theanine in addition to antipsychotic medication for eight weeks were able to reduce anxiety as well as psychopathology symptoms signi cantly. (R) L-Theanine Enhances Blood Flow and Stimulates Nitric Oxide Production Theanine appears to promote nitric oxide formation at relatively low concentrations and is likely practically relevant following oral ingestion. (R) L-Theanine Reduces Negative Effects of Caffeine & Improves Cognitive Boosting Effects Theanine and ca eine are typically found together in tea. A combination of ca eine and theanine together signi cantly improves alertness, reduce fatigue, and improves task-switching accuracy. High dose ca eine (250 mg, equivalent to 2.5 cups of co ee) has some negative e ects, such as jitters and increased blood pressure. Theanine was able to mitigate the increase in blood pressure. “L-Theanine decreases the negative and jittery e ects of ca eine in rats.
5. However, human studies found that L-Theanine helps reduce ca eine jitters, although the changes were not signi cant. L-Theanine changes the pharmacological pro le of ca eine in humans, as the combination of ca eine and L-Theanine have somewhat di erent cognitive enhancement e ects. “- Selfhacked Additional L-Theanine Bene ts Large studies in humans have not been undertaken; however, several smaller-scale studies (fewer than 100 participants) have shown increased alpha wave generation and lowered anxiety, along with bene ts to sleep quality in people with ADHD. [R] Mechanism of Action How Does L-Theanine Work? L-theanine has a comparable chemical composition to glutamate, an amino acid that assists in the transmission of nerve impulses in the brain. Thereby, providing a host of bene ts for the mind. It has a remarkable ability of crossing the blood-brain barrier, which means that it reaches the brain directly. Furthermore, it has positive e ects on stress levels proving to increase both dopamine and serotonin levels in brain; which are two of the brain’s feel-good chemicals. Green tea is known to be e ective at helping people relax due to the positive impact on those neurotransmitters. Theanine is an antagonist of the NMDA receptors (albeit with fairly weak e cacy) and can inhibit synaptic release of glutamate via blocking the transporter competitively. Theanine may also reduce glutamate levels, but this is also a fairly weak mechanism requiring a high concentration of theanine – Examine Dosage How to Take L-Theanine? The e ective l-theanine dose is 200mg. For optimal nootropic results, take l-theanine with ca eine (co ee or supplement, whatever suits you) at a 2:1 ratio. As a stack, it would be: 1. L-Theanine 200mg 2. Ca eine 100mg For those interested, you can actually purchase a supplement pre-made that has 200 mg Theanine & 100 mg Ca eine pressed into one capsule. I’ve personally used and still use Nootropic Depot’s. Note: if you have anxiety or hypertension, you may want to skip ca eine entirely as it aggravates the symptoms.
6. Experimenting is the best way to nd out how you react to it. Side Effects What Are L-Theanine Side Effects? L-theanine is very safe as very high doses have failed to cause toxicity. However, that doesn’t mean you should go for such high dosage. (R) L-theanine is exceptionally reliable. Furthermore, it is classi ed Generally Recognized as Safe by the Fraud and Deception FDA in the US. Conclusion L-Theanine is a natural safe amino acid o ering many bene ts. It’s a popular choice for individuals wanting a simple and e ective way to boost their mental performance. Alone, with ca eine, or even with an advanced nootropic stack; L-theanine is worth trying. Frequently Asked Questions What is L-Theanine and how does it work? L-theanine is one of the main psychoactive constituents of green tea (camellia sinensis) generally used as a dietary supplement to promote relaxation, lift mood, and reduce anxiety without sedation. Beyond that, it’s been shown to generate creativity and higher learning via the ability to ignore distracting information during complex tasks. Now the science: L-theanine induces a calm state of mind by promoting alpha waves in the brain, and has been shown to increase dopamine, GABA, and glycine levels in various areas of the brain, as well as modulate BDNF (Brain derived neurotrophic factor) and NGF (Nerve Growth Factor) levels. In fact, in one recent animal study l-theanine consumption was associated with about a 25% increase in BDNF and about a 100% increase in NGF in the hippocampus. L-Theanine has structural similarities to glutamine and both neurotransmitters that are produced from it (GABA and glutamate) help balance and maintain stress levels while maintaining a state of wakeful relaxation. Lately, L-theanine has been growing in popularity due to its synergistic e ects with ca eine to help boost focus. Systematic reviews show that L-theanine signi cantly mitigates the anxiety inducing side-e ects of ca eine to create a balanced focus. Should I take L-Theanine every time I drink co ee? Are there any adverse e ects from long-term L-Theanine usage? Yes, and no. Let me explain. L-Theanine is a phenomenal compound when mixed with co ee, due to the stacking of e ect, as well as the reduction in some of the negative e ects of ca eine itself. For example, in my biohacking course The Alchemist’s Guide To Biohacking, I talk about how I stack co ee blended with grass-fed butter, coconut oil, MCT, L-Theanine, macadamia or almond butter, and sometimes raw honey almost every single morning. It’s a part of my daily routine, and probably my most favourite (and de nitely tastiest) part of it, if I have to choose one. However, like all compounds I
7. take on a regular basis, I try to observe a 6/1 or 6/2 cycle with them, meaning six weeks on, then one or two weeks o , depending on the compound. This is to reduce dependency, as well as ensure my body isn’t getting used to the e ects, resulting in me possibly having to take more. I’m currently in an o phase now with pine pollen, one of my go-to herbal supplements to boost my testosterone levels. With L-Theanine, I tend to take a week o at the same time I give myself a week o from co ee/ca eine, as it helps to do both at the same time for me. Has anyone used L-Theanine as a meditation aid? When you take L-theanine your thinking will seemingly slow down considerably, but you are not fully conscious when L-Theanine is in your bloodstream. It shuts o certain areas of the brain and limits the bandwidth of brain waves to predominantly alpha waves (1). Full meditative consciousness requires great brain wave bandwidth from delta – to high gamma waves and full activity of the neurotransmitter systems. It is best to meditate completely sober, then your brain will adapt properly to fully receive consciousness. Theanine is bene cial though, after it has metabolized by the body. It acts like an adaptogen and increases strength of brain. Your alertness increases 24 h after consumption and meditation is easier for 48 h. This is because brain have adapted to the presence of L-theanine, and once it has been metabolized, the brain neurons will re with greater intensity, until brain is again adapted to absence of L-Theanine. L-theanine, a natural constituent in tea, and its e ect on mental state. Further and Related Readings 1. L-Theanine & Ca eine Stack: Making the Best of Both Worlds 2. Acetyl-L-Carnitine aka ALCAR 3. N-Acetyl L-Tyrosine aka NALT 4. The Ultimate Nootropics FAQ List Back to Nootropics Information homepage. Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required elds are marked * Comment
8. Name * Email * Website POST COMMENT About Nootropics Information is a data-driven, progressive collection of credible information on nootropics, covering usage, bene ts, e ects, mechanism of action, dosage, potential side e ects, and user experience. Accessible to everyone freely, and easily. Recent Posts 6 Best Natural Nootropic Supplements New Drug Hopes to Reverse Memory Loss Inside The Fragmented Minds of People With Dissociative Identity Disorder You Can Grow New Brain Cells – Here’s How: Israel Approves MDMA ‘Compassionate Use’ to Treat PTSD Categories Amino Acids Guides
9. Guides Natural Herbs News Pharmaceuticals Racetams Resources Stimulants Supplements Stay Connected Contact Us Home About Contact Join FAQ Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Sitemap
Recommended
Elearning Techniques: Visual Design
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Information Literacy
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
Training Tips Weekly
Online Course - LinkedIn Learning
N Acetyl L Tyrosine - Nootropics Information
Nootropics Information
New Drug Hopes to Reverse Memory Loss
Nootropics Information
Noopept: In Depth Review of the "Smart Drug" that Actually Makes You...Smart
Nootropics Information
In-Depth Review of Agmatine as a Nootropic Agent
Nootropics Information
The AI Rush
Jean-Baptiste Dumont
AI and Machine Learning Demystified by Carol Smith at Midwest UX 2017
Carol Smith
10 facts about jobs in the future
Pew Research Center's Internet & American Life Project
English
Español
Português
Français
Deutsch
About
Dev & API
Blog
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
Support
LinkedIn Corporation © 2019
×
Share Clipboard
×
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Link
Public clipboards featuring this slide
×
No public clipboards found for this slide
Select another clipboard
×
Looks like you’ve clipped this slide to already.
Create a clipboard
You just clipped your first slide!
Clipping is a handy way to collect important slides you want to go back to later. Now customize the name of a clipboard to store your clips.
Name*
Description
Visibility
Others can see my Clipboard
Cancel
Save