Best Ringworm Creams - Most Effective Treatment on Market
Best Ringworm Creams
The Most Effective Ringworm and Jock Itch Products
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Ringworm: Signs, Symptoms and Treatment
5 Best Rated Ringworm Creams
Ringworm is a common skin fungal infection, also known as tinea. It commonly affects the body, the scalp, the feet or the groin. The affected area can uncomfortably itch, burn or sting and the skin may peel, flake or crack forming a round ring.
Although it is called ringworm, the fungal infection is not literally caused by a worm. Because the fungi create a ring-shaped rash in the affected area, thus the name ringworm. The center of the infected skin can become red. Oftentimes, it is the normal skin color.
People who sweat excessively or have moist minor sore in the skin, nails or scalp are at greater risk of getting ringworm. It is caused by a kind of fungi that live on the dead tissues of your skin, nails, and hair.
Types of Ringworm
Ringworms may affect the different parts of the human body.
Ringworm in the body (tinea corporis) may occur on any part of the body. When the fungi affect the skin of the body, the person will feel itchiness. Symptoms may include redness in the skin or scaly raised part of the skin. For some people, there is presence of blister and oozing pus.
Ringworm of the scalp (tinea capitis) commonly affects children or adolescence. It is communicable and may spread in schools. It is often patchy characterized by scaling bald spots on the scalp.
Ringworm of the foot (tinea pedis) is popularly known as athlete’s foot. It can cause scaling, inflammation, itching, burning sensation, redness, and a stingy feeling.
Most Effective Ringworm Creams
Ringworm can be annoying most specially when it the symptoms worsen and itching becomes unbearable. However, it can be treated with over-the-counter antifungal creams. If you are suffering from ringworm, no need to worry about finding the best ringworm cream to treat your problem. We have listed below the best-rated ringworm creams.
#1 Defense Skin Care Kit
This skin care pack consists of 1 oz. Healing Salve and 1 oz. of Essential Oil. Defense Skin Care Kit is designed to naturally treat stubborn skin infections caused by fungi like jock itch, ringworm, athlete’s foot and dandruff. It also helps treat acne.
The healing salve comes from aloe vera, lanolin, and jojoba. They help moisturize and enrich the skin while providing maximum protection. Combined with the salve is 100% natural essential oil which makes it safe to use. Essential oil provides the skin with a natural barrier. It has no smell, dyes, or any harmful ingredients.
Defense Skin Care Kit for ringworm is sold for $23.99.
#2 Fine Vine Super Balm by Organics
Organic lavender, tea tree and eucalyptus oils are the ingredients of Fine Vine Super Balm. These components provide a soothing effect and antifungal properties to help treat fungal infections such as ringworm, eczema, and nail fungus. The therapeutic essential oils balance the skin’s pH. It promotes a healthy glowing skin and keeps it free from infection.
The balm provides relief for itchy, scratchy and dry skin. It is ideal for the hands, back, feet, toenails, fingernails, and for the other parts of the body.
Compared to other cheaper balms, Fine Vine is made under strict health and safety guidelines and approved by state-of-the-art GMP and FDA registered facilities. It is very safe to use. It has no fillers, chemicals or toxins.
Fine Vine Super Balm is sold for $19.97.
#3 Puriya Antifungal Cream Ointment
If you’re looking for antifungal or ringworm cream that does more than just eliminating the infection, fungi, and unpleasant odor, the Puriya Antifungal Cream Ointment is highly recommended. Aside from treating the fungal infection, it also deeply hydrates and softens the damaged skin.
The advanced formula of Puriya Antifungal Cream contains a very potent anti-fungal and antimicrobial properties that effectively controls itching and inflammation on the face, body, feet, hands, head, scalp, nails, toes and heel. In addition, the application of Puriya Antifungal Cream prevents the spread of infection to other parts of the body. It also has tea tree oil, eucalyptus, and lavender oil that deeply penetrates and moisturizes the affected area. Besides these three essential oils, Puriya also contains beeswax and olive oil so the skin stays moisturized while treating the problem. Using the cream as directed will also prevent the reoccurrence of the fungal infection.
Puriya Antifungal Cream Ointment can be purchased for $33.22.
#4 Desenex Ointment Zinc Undecylenate 20% w/ Undecylenic Acid 5%
Desenex Ointment is a high strength anti-fungal ointment. It treats all sorts of fungal infection such as athlete’s foot, ringworm and jock itch. It can also be used in fungal infections affecting the breast area and armpits.
Desenex Ointment provides relief from the itch and burning sensation caused by the fungal infection. It also prevents the infection from recurring and spreading to other parts of the body. Desenex also have a foot powder perfect for athlete’s foot to minimize the odor that comes with the infection.
The ointment comes on a 30g ointment. It is sold for $19.95.
#5 Family Care Clotrimazole 1%USP
If you ask for a ringworm cream or antifungal treatment, Clotrimazole is one of the treatments any pharmacist will usually give you.
Family Care Clotrimazole 1%USP is an effective antifungal cream. Like other antifungals, it treats ringworm, jock itch and athlete’s foot. It also provides a relief for itching, cracking, burning and any discomfort brought by any fungal infections.
However, Clotrimazole may not give immediate relief from fungal infection. It is a slow-acting fungicide and will require applying it to affected area consistently for as per product package for several days or even weeks.
Family Care Clotrimazole active ingredient is 1% clotrimazole and inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol, alcohol, cetearyl, sorbitan stearate, monobasic sodium phosphate dihydrate, polysorbate 60, propylene glycol and purified water.
Clotrimazole must not be used for children under 2 years of age unless prescribed by a physician. This is also not effective for scalp and nails.
Family Care Clotrimazole 1%USP may come as more expensive than the others. At $55.46, the price is for 2 packs since you need to use this cream for at least 3 times a day to effectively treat fungal infection.
Read Before Using Any Ringworm Cream
You can use any of these recommended ringworm creams to treat ring worm. But before applying any ringworm cream, make sure your skin is dry. Fungal infection is highly contagious so make sure you don’t share your personal items like socks, shirts, underclothes and towels. It is also good to let others know about being infected with ringworm or fungal infection from people and pets.
Ringworm infection doesn’t have to bother you at all. Treat it with any of the best ringworm creams that we recommend and let us know if it worked for you.
Search for:
Recent Articles
5 Best Rated Ringworm Creams
Ringworm: Signs, Symptoms and Treatment
Proudly powered by WordPress