Beyond Blue - A Guide to What Works for Depression in Young People | Major Depressive Disorder | Randomized Controlled Trial
Search
Search
Close suggestions
Upload
Sign In
Join
Home
Saved
Bestsellers
Books
Audiobooks
Magazines
Documents
Sheet Music
20 views
0Up votes, mark as useful
0Down votes, mark as not useful
Beyond Blue - A Guide to What Works for Depression in Young People
Uploaded by librarycv
There are many treatments for depression available to choose from. This booklet aims to help young people aged 14 to 25 years make informed choices by providing a summary of the scientific evidence for each treatment. Since depression usually begins in adolescence and young adulthood, it is important to understand and find effective treatments that are suitable for this age and stage of life.
Copyright: Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
Download as PDF, TXT or read online from Scribd
Flag for inappropriate content
save
Related
Info
Embed
Share
Print
Search
Related titles
acu 2012 0900
Haddock Et Al-2017-Journal of Marital and Family Therapy
The relationship between stress and infertility.pdf
Short-time Intensive Psychodynamic Group Therapy Versus Cognitive-behavioral Group Therapy in Day Treatment
A Study to Evaluate the Incidence of Occult2
cat_jurnalNC anshor.ppt
7 Depression
workshopuri sibiu
ASPEN Critical Care- Susan Brantley
35201
192.1-casemanagement
group depression project
FASJ - 2017 - Valisena - TX of Mortons Neuroma - Systematic Review
Labette Center for Mental Health Services 4th Quarter 2013 Community Newsletter
Views on Suicide.docx
Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Berbari e26 46
cognitive-behavioural-therapy-for-people-with-id-who-are-victims-of-crime-
Ageing and Cultural Diversity Strategy
2013 Victorian Public Healthcare Awards Showcase
2013 Law Help Directory
Download
Jump to Page
You are on page 1of 64
Search inside document
A guide to what works for
depression in young people
Rosemary Purcell, Siobhan Ryan, Faye Scanlan, Amy Morgan, Patch Callahan, Nick Allen, Anthony Jorm
www.youthbeyondblue.com 1300 22 4636
ISBN: 978-0-9807463-2-7
Copyright: Beyond Blue Ltd, Purcell, Ryan, Scanlan, Morgan, Callahan, Allen, Jorm
Suggested citation: Purcell R, Ryan S, Scanlan F, Morgan A, Callahan P, Allen
NB, Jorm AF. A guide to what works for depression in young people; 2nd Edition.
beyondblue: Melbourne, 2013.
About the Authors
The authors of this guide are researchers at The Centre for Youth Mental Health,
The University of Melbourne.
Acknowledgments
The authors wish to thank the focus group members who provided valuable
feedback on revising this booklet, including the rating system used throughout.
What is depression? 2
Are there different types of depression? 6
Getting help for depression 8
How family and friends can help 11
How to use this booklet 12
How this booklet was developed 16
A summary of what works for depression in young people 17
CONTENTS
Complementary and lifestyle interventions
Bibliotherapy 18
Computer or internet treatments (self-guided) 19
Distraction 20
Exercise 20
Light therapy 21
Magnesium 22
Massage 22
Music 23
Relaxation training 23
SAMe (s-adenosylmethione) 24
St Johns wort (Hypericum perforatum) 24
Medical interventions
Anti-convulsant drugs 26
Antidepressant medications 27
Anti-psychotic drugs 28
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) 28
Lithium 29
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) 29
Psychological interventions
Art therapy 30
Behaviour therapy / Behavioural activation 31
Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) 31
Computer or internet treatments (professionally guided) 32
Creative play 33
Dance and movement therapy (DMT) 34
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) 34
Family therapy 35
Hypnosis 36
Interpersonal therapy (IPT) 36
Problem solving therapy (PST) 37
Psychodynamic psychotherapy 38
Psychoeducation 39
Social skills training 40
Supportive therapy 40
Interventions that are not routinely available
Ketamine 41
Interventions reviewed but 42
where no evidence was found
References 44
Appendix: What about interventions not reviewed here,
but where evidence exists for adults?
A summary of the evidence for treatments in adults 47
We all feel sad or down from time to time its part of
being human. Usually when we feel down its a reaction
to something, like ghting with family or friends, breaking
up with someone or moving away from home. Sometimes,
people say they are depressed when they experience this
kind of sadness, but in most cases it will pass in a few
hours or days. However, depression is more than just
a day or two of feeling sad or down.
Depression becomes an illness (i.e. a depressive disorder) when
feelings of sadness last longer than normal and stop the person
from enjoying things he/she used to like, or from taking part in
usual activities. When this happens, symptoms other than sadness
also develop, such as feeling worthless. The person may nd it
harder than usual to focus at school or to perform well at work
and may have problems getting along with family and friends.
What is depression?
Tackling the stigma of depression
It is important to tackle the stigma that surrounds depression because
it stops a lot of people from getting the support they need.
Many people who are depressed realise they need help, but are afraid
or reluctant to seek support because they fear negative reactions from
friends or family.
Some common myths about depression
Myth: Depression is a sign of personal failure or weakness.
Fact: Depression is a much more common problem than most people realise.
On average, one in six people one in ve women and one in eight men
will experience depression at some stage of their lives.
1
Anyone can become
depressed whether they are young or old, male or female, rich or poor.
Myth: Depression is just laziness.
Fact: When people get depressed they often have less energy or
motivation and may become less active or withdraw from family or friends.
These common signs and symptoms of depression can sometimes be
mistaken for laziness.
Myth: Something terrible has to have happened for someone to
become depressed.
Fact: There is no one cause for depression. It often occurs due to a build up
of stressful situations (e.g. pressure at school or work, relationship problems,
low self-esteem) rather than any one event. It can also occur quite
unexpectedly when a person is generally feeling quite good.
Myth: Depression is something you can just snap out of.
Fact: Most people with depression will recover, however this often takes time
and support. In cases of moderate to severe depression, seeking professional
help is particularly important.
2
DEPRESSION IN YOUNG PEOPLE
Mental health problems are the major health issues that young
Australians face. Adolescence and early adulthood are often
periods of great change for example, developing a sense of
identity, becoming more independent from parents and taking
on greater responsibility during the transition from school into
work or higher education. The challenges faced by many young
people can lead to emotional problems.
Most people have their rst experience of depression during
adolescence or young adulthood. Overall, it is estimated that
6 to 7 per cent of young Australians aged 16 to 24 (or around
160,000 young people) will experience depression in any year.
The rates of depression each year tend to be higher among young
females (8.4 per cent) compared to young males (4.3 per cent).
1
All of these gures might even be an underestimate since research
typically looks only at the rates of major depressive disorders,
rather than milder forms of depression.
Depression in young people is also often associated with
other mental health problems, including anxiety, drug or
alcohol problems.
2
It is important that young people who are experiencing
depression get help as early as possible. If depression is left
untreated, young people are at risk of struggling in their studies
or work, having difculties in their relationships with family or
friends, abusing alcohol, taking drugs or self-harming. If depression
becomes severe, people may feel hopeless and begin to have
thoughts of hurting themselves, or of ending their lives.
Although depression affects many young people, few get
treatment. Over 75 per cent of Australian adolescents with
serious mental health problems do not seek help from health
services.
1
This is extremely concerning because depression can
be very disabling, especially if it is left untreated. Struggles with
school, work or relationships can last longer and may lead to the
person not achieving their full potential, be it at work or in their
relationships. Depressive disorders are also the most common
risk factor for suicide.
FAST FACT
Around 1 in 4 young people aged 16 to 24 experience mental health
problems during adolescence.
1
DID YOU KNOW?
Depression is one of the leading causes of disability among
1524 year olds in Australia, far ahead of road trafc accidents.
2
ACT EARLY
Because depression often starts before the age of 25, it makes
most sense to provide treatment when it rst develops; that is,
during adolescence and emerging adulthood.
1
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2007 Survey of Mental Health and Wellbeing: Summary of Results.
(Document 4326.0). Canberra: ABS; 2008.
2
Begg S, Vos T, Barker B, Stevenson C, Stanley L, Lopez AD (2007) The burden of disease and injury in
Australia 2003, AIHW PHE 82, April, Canberra.
3
It is important to know that there are treatments that work for
depression in young people. This booklet aims to help young
people, their friends and family members understand more
about depression and which treatment approaches may work.
Just because a treatment is effective in treating depression in
adults doesnt mean that it will necessarily work with young
people. This booklet is designed to provide clear information about
the effectiveness of a range of interventions complementary
and lifestyle, medical and psychological for depression in
young people aged 14 to 25.
WHAT CAUSES DEPRESSION?
People often think depression is caused by something that
has gone wrong, for example, a bad break-up, falling out with
friends or failing an exam. While the exact cause of depression
isnt known, a number of things can be associated with its
development. Generally, depression does not result from a single
event, but from a combination of recent events and other longer-
term or personal factors.
Life events
Factors such as family conict, the loss of someone close to you,
and traumatic experiences may lead to depression in young people.
Other negative things like being abused or bullied, feeling bad
about yourself or the world, feeling alone or discriminated against
can all increase your chance of getting depression. Research
suggests that continuing difculties are more likely to cause
depression than recent life stresses. However, recent events or a
combination of events can trigger depression in people who are
already at risk because of past bad experiences or personal factors.
What is depression?
Personal factors
s Family history Depression can run in families and some
people will be at an increased genetic risk. However, this
doesnt mean that a person will automatically experience
depression if a parent or close relative has had the illness. Life
circumstances and other personal factors are still likely to have
an important inuence.
s Personality Some people may be more at risk of depression
because of their personality, particularly if they have a tendency
to worry a lot, have low self-esteem, are perfectionists, are
sensitive to personal criticism, or are self-critical and negative.
s Serious medical illness Having a medical illness can trigger
depression in two ways. Serious illnesses can bring about
depression directly, or can contribute to depression through
associated stress and worry, especially if it involves long-term
management of the illness and/or chronic pain.
s Drug and alcohol use Drug and alcohol use can both lead to
and result from depression. Many people with depression also
have drug and alcohol problems. More than 300,000 young
Australians aged 1624 experience a substance use disorder
each year.
1
Changes in the brain
What happens in the brain to cause depression is not fully
understood. Evidence suggests it may be related to changes in
the levels or activity of certain chemicals particularly serotonin,
norepinephrine and dopamine which are the three main
chemicals related to mood and motivation that carry messages
within the brain. Changes to stress hormone levels have also
been found in people with depression. Research suggests that
behaviour can affect brain chemistry for example, long-term
stress may cause changes in the brain that can lead to depression.
4
Not every person who is depressed has all of these symptoms.
People differ in terms of the number of symptoms they have and
the severity of their symptoms. As a guide, a person who has mild
depression would have ve or six of the symptoms listed, and may
nd it difcult to function at school, work and at home. A person
who has severe depression would have most of the symptoms
listed and clearly, would be unable to function in most parts of his/
her life. A person with moderate depression would be in between
mild and severe.
For more information about symptoms of depression, including
symptom checklists, visit www.beyondblue.org.au
Changes in brain chemistry have been more commonly associated
with severe depression rather than mild or moderate depression.
Everyone is different and its often a combination of factors that
can contribute to a person developing depression. Its important
to note that you cant always identify the cause of depression or
change difcult circumstances. The most important thing is to
recognise the signs and symptoms and seek help.
WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF DEPRESSION?
Symptoms of depression can include:
|ee||| u||app], rccd] c| |||||ao|e rc| c| ||e ||re
|ee||| c| erp|||e c| |uro|e
|c|| |||e|e| a|d p|eau|e || a:||.|||e ||a| We|e c|:e e|(c]ed
:|a|e || appe|||e, ea||| |ao|| c| We||| (e.. e|||e| We||| |c ||cr
having a poor appetite, or weight gain from turning to comfort foods and
overeating)
:|a|e || |eep |ao|| (e.. e|||e| d|||:u||] |eep||, c| cre||re
staying in bed most of the day)
|||ed|e, |a:| c| e|e|] a|d rc||.a||c| (e.. ||d|| || |a|d |c 'e| c||',
d|||:u||] :c|:e|||a||| a|d/c| ra||| de:||c|
|ee||| oad, Wc||||e c| u|||], c| oe|| c.e||] :||||:a| c| c|ee||
|ea||.e c| 'dcW| c| ]cu|e||' ||cu||
||cu|| c| dea|| c| u|:|de.
Everyone experiences some of the symptoms above from time to
time. However, for a person to have a diagnosis of a depressive
disorder, he/she would have some of these symptoms for at least
two weeks, nearly every day.
5
There are different types of depressive disorders.
Symptoms can range from relatively minor (but still
disabling) through to very severe.
MAJOR DEPRESSION
Sometimes this is called major depressive disorder, clinical
depression, unipolar depression or simply depression. It involves
low mood and/or loss of interest and pleasure in usual activities
(like spending time with friends, playing sport, socialising), as well
as other symptoms such as those described earlier.
The symptoms are experienced most days, nearly every day
and last for at least two weeks. The symptoms interfere with the
persons relationships. Since its common for young people to
have mood swings (e.g. feeling up sometimes, as well as down
and more sensitive or irritable) as a regular part of growing up, it
may be hard to diagnose this kind of depression if it is mistaken for
normal adolescent mood swings.
Depression can be described as mild, moderate or severe; or
melancholic or psychotic.
s -ELANCHOLIA
This is the term used to describe a severe form of depression
where many of the physical symptoms of depression are present.
For example, one of the major changes is that the person can be
observed to move more slowly. The person is also more likely to
have depressed mood that is characterised by complete loss of
pleasure in everything or almost everything. It is very rare for
melancholia and biological forms of depression to occur in
young people.
3
s 0SYCHOTICDEPRESSION
Sometimes people with a depressive disorder can lose touch
with reality. Experiencing psychosis can involve seeing or hearing
things that are not there (hallucinations), or having delusions (false
beliefs that are not shared by others). For example, people with
this type of severe depression may believe they are bad or evil,
being watched or followed, or feel as though everyone is against
them (paranoia), or that they are the cause of illness or bad events
occurring around them.
s !NTENATALANDPOSTNATALDEPRESSION
Depression in women has been shown to increase during
pregnancy and early parenthood. Depression occurs in up to one
in 10 women in Australia during pregnancy (called the antenatal
period) and around one in seven women in the rst year after the
birth of the baby (called the postnatal period).
4
Factors that may place women (including young women) at greater
risk of developing depression during this time include:
5
s A personal or family history of current or past mental
health problems
s Negative or stressful life events (such as moving,
unplanned pregnancy)
s Current or past history of abuse (physical, psychological, sexual)
s Lack of available support (e.g. practical or emotional support for
being a single mum)
s Alcohol and /or drug problems.
For many mums, this may only be mild. For other mums, it lasts
longer and can interfere with their mothering. Depression and
anxiety during this time can have an impact on the health of the
mother, her partner and can affect the babys development.
Are there different types of depression?
6
BIPOLAR DISORDER
Bipolar disorder used to be known as manic depression because
the person experiences periods of depression, but at other times,
periods of mania. In between, he or she has periods of normal
mood. Mania is like the opposite of depression and can vary in
intensity symptoms include feeling great, having plenty of energy,
racing thoughts and little need for sleep, talking fast, having
difculty focusing on tasks, and feeling frustrated and irritable.
This is not just a eeting experience. Sometimes the person loses
touch with reality and has episodes of psychosis. Experiencing
psychosis involves seeing or hearing something that is not there
(hallucinations), or having delusions (e.g. the person believing he or
she has superpowers).
Treatments for bipolar disorder are different from those for
depression and are not covered in this booklet.
DYSTHYMIC DISORDER
(DYSTHYMIA PRONOUNCED DIS-THIGH-MIA)
The symptoms of dysthymia are similar to those of major
depression, but are less severe.
However, in the case of dysthymia, symptoms last longer
a person has to have this milder depression for more than two
years to be diagnosed with dysthymia.
SEASONAL AFFECTIVE DISORDER (SAD)
SAD is a mood disorder that has a seasonal pattern. The cause of
the disorder is unclear, however it is thought to be related to the
variation in light exposure in different seasons.
Its characterised by mood disturbances (either periods of
depression or mania) that begin and end in a particular season.
Depression which starts in winter and subsides when the season
ends is the most common. Its usually diagnosed after the person
has had the same symptoms during winter for a couple of years.
People with Seasonal Affective Disorder depression are more
likely to experience lack of energy, sleep too much, overeat, gain
weight and crave for carbohydrates. SAD is very rare in Australia,
and more likely to be found in countries with shorter days and
longer periods of darkness such as in the cold climate areas of the
Northern Hemisphere.
3 Parker G, Roy K., Adolescent depression: a review, Australian and New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry 2001;
35(5):572-580.
4 Buist A, Bilszta J. The beyondblue National Postnatal Depression Program, Prevention and Early Intervention
20012005, Final Report. Volume 1: National Screening Program. 2006a, beyondblue.
5 Milgrom J, Gemmill AW, Bilsztajl et al. Antenatal risk factors for postnatal depression: a large prospective study.
Journal of Affective Disorders 2008; 108: 147-157.
7
Its important for young people who are experiencing
depression to get support and help. Many young
people turn to family and friends for support rather
than talking to a health professional. Family and
friends play an important role in supporting a young
person through a period of depression (see How
family and friends can help on page 11). In many
cases, young people may need help from a doctor or
mental health professional to treat the depression
and to get their life back on track. This is particularly
important if the depression is moderate or severe.
It can be hard to know where to begin to look for professional help
for depression. Whats important to remember is that there are
lots of people out there who can help. There are different types
of health professionals who can provide help for depression.
GENERAL PRACTITIONERS (GPs)
GPs are the best starting point for someone seeking professional
help. A good GP can:
s make a diagnosis
s check for any physical health problem or medication that may
be contributing to depression
s discuss available treatments
s work with the young person to draw up a Mental Health
Treatment Plan so he or she can get a Medicare rebate for
psychological treatment
s provide brief counselling or in some cases talking therapy
s prescribe medication
s refer a young person to a mental health specialist such as a
psychologist or psychiatrist.
When making an appointment with a GP, ask for a long appointment
at a time when the GP is less busy. That way, the GP can take
Getting help for depression
more time to talk to you about the problems youre having. It is
also best to raise the issue of depression early in the consultation.
Even if youre not sure whats going on or what the problem is, you
should feel free to talk about your feelings with the GP.
Keep in mind that some GPs are better at dealing with depression
than others. A good GP should take the time to listen and give
clear and easy-to-understand answers. He/she should explain
the various treatment options for depression and ask what you
think will work best. For example, some young people may prefer
a talking therapy, whereas others may prefer to take medication.
If you are not happy with the service provided, or dont feel
comfortable talking with the GP, try another one. It is important
not to give up looking for help if one GP is not helpful.
s GPs and other health professionals sometimes use words we dont
understand. If you dont understand something, its important and OK
to ask them to explain.
s Sometimes, it can be hard to keep track of all the information a health
professional might give you. It helps to ask them to write the important
things down so you dont forget them.
s You might prefer to see a health professional of a particular gender.
If you do, tell the receptionist when you book the appointment.
s Its OK to bring someone along with you to your appointment (like a parent,
friend or partner) if it makes you feel more comfortable.
Some things to think about when getting help
PSYCHIATRISTS
Psychiatrists are doctors who have undergone further training to
specialise in mental health.
A person usually sees a psychiatrist when the depression is
severe or is not responding to treatment. Psychiatrists can make
medical and psychiatric assessments, conduct medical tests,
provide therapy and prescribe medication. They often use
psychological treatments such as cognitive behaviour therapy
8
(CBT), interpersonal therapy (IPT) and/or medication. If the
depression is severe and hospital admission is required,
a psychiatrist will be in charge of the persons treatment.
Most psychiatrists work in private practice, but some work for
hospitals and community mental health clinics. A referral from a
GP is needed to see a psychiatrist. Rebates can also be claimed
through Medicare.
PSYCHOLOGISTS
Psychologists are health professionals who provide psychological
therapies (talking therapies) such as cognitive behaviour therapy
(CBT) and interpersonal therapy (IPT). Clinical psychologists
specialise in the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of mental
health problems. Psychologists and clinical psychologists are not
doctors and cannot prescribe medication in Australia.
Some psychologists work for community mental health services,
while others are in private practice. It is not necessary to have a
referral from a GP or psychiatrist to see a psychologist, however
a Mental Health Treatment Plan from a GP is needed to claim
rebates through Medicare.
It is important for young people to understand that speaking with a health
professional is condential. All health professionals are legally required
to keep anything you tell them a secret. This is called patient-doctor
condentiality and means that anything said in your consultation is not
repeated to others. Doctors cant tell your parents or the police about
what you have told them, even if youve used alcohol or drugs, or had sex.
Your friends and family must also respect your privacy and cannot access
details about your mental health or treatment unless you say it is ok.
Sometimes, you may feel that it would be helpful for the health professional
to speak to someone else, like a family member, boyfriend/girlfriend, or a
friend. In these cases, you need to give the health professional permission to
speak to that person.
There are some situations where it may be necessary for a health professional
to break condentiality. These are when:
s you give consent
s they think you might be about to hurt yourself or somebody else
s they are talking to another medical professional in condence about you
s they are required to by a court of law.
In these cases, the health professional will usually speak with the young
person about the need to break condentiality.
Its a good idea to discuss condentiality and your rights with your treating
health professional/s early on, and ask any questions you may have.
Condentiality
s What are my different treatment options?
s Are there any side-effects of this treatment? What are they?
s How much does it/will it cost?
s Can I claim money back for it on Medicare?
s What should I do if I notice any side-effects?
s What happens if I dont feel like Im getting any better from this treatment?
s Always remember, sometimes you need to shop around to nd the best
person to support you. If youre not happy with the service youre getting,
its best to try another one. There are lots of people out there who can help.
Helpful questions to ask a health professional
What is a Mental Health Treatment Plan?
A Mental Health Treatment Plan is a treatment strategy prepared by a GP
in consultation with a young person and looks at a persons mental health
needs and goals, and outlines treatment options and support services to
reach those goals.
9
SOCIAL WORKERS IN MENTAL HEALTH
Social workers in mental health can support people with depression
by helping them nd ways to manage more effectively some of
the triggers for their depression. These may include family issues,
nancial problems, work stress and living arrangements. Mental
health social workers can also provide focused psychological
self-help strategies, which include relaxation training and skills
training (e.g. problem solving and stress management).
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPISTS IN MENTAL HEALTH
Occupational therapists in mental health help people who have
difculties functioning because of a mental health problem (such
as depression) to participate in normal, everyday activities.
Mental health occupational therapists can also provide focused
psychological self-help strategies.
Medicare rebates are available for individual or group sessions with
social workers and occupational therapists in mental health.
MENTAL HEALTH NURSE PRACTITIONERS
Mental health nurses are specially trained to care for people with
mental health problems. They work with psychiatrists and GPs to
review the state of a persons mental health, monitor medication
and provide information about mental health problems and
treatment. Some have training in psychological therapies.
ABORIGINAL AND TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER
MENTAL HEALTH WORKERS
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Mental Health Workers are health
workers who understand the mental health issues of Indigenous
people and what is needed to provide culturally-safe and accessible
services. Some workers may have undertaken training in mental
health and psychological therapies. Support provided by Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander Mental Health Workers might include, but
not be limited to, case management, screening, assessment,
referrals, transport to and attendance at specialist appointments,
Getting help for depression
education, improving access to mainstream services, advocacy,
counselling, support for family and acute distress response.
COUNSELLORS
Counsellors can work in a variety of settings, including youth services,
private practices, community health centres, schools and universities.
A counsellor can talk through different problems a young person
may be experiencing and look for possible solutions. This may
include providing referral options to trained mental health
professionals in the local community.
Many young people choose to see their school counsellor, also
known as student welfare coordinator. All school students in
Australia have access to either a school counsellor or student
welfare coordinator. Schools may also have their own health
trained professionals such as psychologists who work on site.
While there are many qualied counsellors who work across
different settings, some counsellors are less qualied and may
not be registered. Unfortunately, anyone can call themselves a
counsellor, even if they dont have training or experience. For this
reason, it is important to ask for information about the counsellors
qualications and whether they are registered with a state board or
a professional society. A good counsellor will be happy to provide
you with this information.
COMPLEMENTARY HEALTH PRACTITIONERS
There are many alternative and complementary approaches to
treating depression. However, many of these services are not covered
by Medicare. Some services may be covered by private health
insurance. If you dont have private health insurance, you may have to
pay for these services. When seeking a complementary therapy, it is
best to check whether the practitioner is registered by a state
Registration Board or a professional society. It is a good idea to make
sure the practitioner uses therapies which are supported by evidence
that shows they are effective. This booklet will help you to gure out
which approaches have the most evidence to show they are effective.
10
How family and friends
can help
Family and friends often play an important role in helping
a young person who is depressed. They can help get
appropriate professional help and support the young
person through the process of treatment and recovery.
When someone you care about is experiencing depression, it can
be hard to know what the right thing is to do. Sometimes, it can
be overwhelming and cause worry and stress. It is very important
that you take the time to look after yourself and monitor your own
feelings if youre supporting a friend or family member who is
experiencing depression. It can be helpful to talk to a trusted adult
about your concerns.
Information about depression and practical advice on how to
help someone you are worried about is available at
www. youthbeyondblue.com. beyondblue also has a range of
helpful resources, including fact sheets, booklets, wallet cards
and DVDs about depression, available treatments and where to
get help go to www.beyondblue.org.au
Even when you suspect you need help, you might wonder whether you
can afford to see a health professional, or even if its really worth the
money. Fortunately, in Australia, treatments for health problems, including
mental health problems, are either completely free or partly paid for by the
Government all you need is a Medicare number.
If you have a Medicare number and your GP bulk bills, the consultation wont
cost you anything. If your GP doesnt bulk bill, you may have to pay up to $65
for a consultation. Medicare will then refund around half of this cost.
Medicare rebates are also available for psychological treatments undertaken
with psychiatrists, psychologists, clinical psychologists, social workers and
occupational therapists in mental health under the Australian Governments
Better Access initiative.
These health professionals may use any number of different treatments and
strategies, such as psychoeducation, cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT),
relaxation strategies, skills training, or interpersonal therapy (IPT).
The Medicare rebates for these treatments generally range from 75 per
cent to, in some cases, 100 per cent of the treatment cost. In one calendar
year, a person who is eligible can receive Medicare rebates for up to 10
individual consultations with a mental health professional and up to 10 group
therapy sessions.
Free or subsidised psychological treatment is also available through the
Access to Allied Psychological Services (ATAPS) initiative for sessions with
occupational therapists and social workers in mental health, mental health
nurses, psychologists, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander mental
health workers.
Qualifying for rebates under Better Access or ATAPS is usually as simple as
having had a Mental Health Treatment Plan drawn up by a GP, or in some
instances via a referral from a psychiatrist or paediatrician (in the case of a
young person). If you are unsure if you are eligible for subsidised treatment,
check with your GP.
To nd out more about costs, including getting a Medicare card, visit
www.youthbeyondblue.com and check out Fact sheet 24 Getting
help for depression and anxiety: Condentiality and costs, or go to
www.beyondblue.org.au and take a look at Fact sheet 24 Getting help:
How much does it cost?
The lowdown on rebates
11
There are many different approaches to treating
depression. These include medical treatments (such
as medications or medical procedures), psychological
therapies (including talking therapies) and self-help
(such as complementary and alternative therapies or
lifestyle approaches). All of the approaches included
in this booklet have been investigated as possible
treatments for depression see How this booklet was
developed on page 16. However the amount of evidence
supporting the effectiveness of different approaches can
vary greatly. In addition, some of the approaches listed
are not available or used as treatments for example,
ketamine is an experimental approach that is not
available as a treatment for depression, but is has been
used in research studies to see if it reduces depression.
Th|s book|et a|ms to he|p young peop|e make |nformed
cho|ces by prov|d|ng a summary of the sc|ent|c
ev|dence for each treatment approach.
This booklet summarises the evidence for interventions for
depression in young people aged 14 to 25 years. Since depression
usually begins in adolescence and young adulthood, it is important
to understand and nd effective treatments that are suitable for
this age and stage of life. Treatment approaches that work for
adults may not necessarily be effective for adolescents and
young adults. This might be for a range of reasons, including
differences in how severe the depression is or the duration of the
illness. A summary of the evidence for adults in general (i.e. 18 to
65 years of age) are summarised in the Appendix on page 47.
If a treatment approach gets the 'thumbs up' does that
mean it will work for me?
Even when an intervention is shown to have some effect in
research this does not mean it is available, used in clinical practice,
or will be recommended or work equally well for every person.
While it might work for the average person, some people will have
complications, side-effects, or incompatibilities with their lifestyle.
There is no substitute for the advice of a mental health practitioner,
who can advise on the best available treatment options.
We have rated the evidence for the effectiveness of each
intervention covered in this booklet using a thumbs up scale:
How to use this booklet
Throughout the treatment reviews, we refer to:
s ANadolescent as someone aged 14 to 17 years
s Ayoung adult as someone aged 18 to 25 years.
Whos who?
There are lots of good quality studies showing
that the approach works.
There is a number of studies showing that the
intervention works, but the evidence is not as strong
as for the best approaches.
There are at least two good studies showing that
the approach works.
The evidence shows that the intervention does
not work.
There is not enough evidence to say whether or
not the approach works.
The intervention has potential risks, mainly in terms
of side-effects.
12
What shou|d I th|nk about when I'm try|ng to dec|de
wh|ch treatment approach m|ght be best for me?
The best approach is to seek advice, try an intervention that
works for most people and that you are comfortable with. If you do
not recover quickly enough (within a few months), or experience
problems with the treatment, then try another. Its important
not to get discouraged if a treatment isnt working. Sometimes,
it might involve trying a few different approaches before nding
one that works best for you. It is also important to remember
that sometimes it can take a while for a treatment to kick in.
Rather than looking for immediate results, it is often necessary to
stick with an intervention for a number of weeks before deciding
that its not working.
Combining different forms of interventions that work for depression is often
the best approach. An example is combining a prescribed medication with a
psychological (talking) therapy.
However, sometimes there can be side-effects from combinations especially
prescribed or complementary medications. Always check with a health
professional whether it is safe to use two treatments at the same time.
Whatever approaches are used, they are best done under the supervision of
a GP or a mental health professional.
Only one intervention at a time?
Another factor to consider is beliefs about treatment.
An intervention is more likely to work if a person believes in it
and is willing to commit to it. Even the most effective treatments
will not work if they are only used sometimes or half-heartedly.
Some people have strong beliefs about particular types of
treatment. For example, some do not like taking medications
in general, whereas others are strongly in favour of medical
approaches. Remember: strong beliefs in a particular treatment
may not be enough, especially if there is no good evidence
that the approach works.
13
How to use this booklet
This booklet provides a summary of what the scientic
evidence says about different approaches that have been
studied to see if they reduce depression. The reviews in this
booklet are divided into the following sections:
Within each of these areas, we review the scientic evidence for
each intervention to determine whether or not they are supported
as being effective. We recommend that young people seek
treatments that they believe in and are also supported by
evidence. Whatever treatments are used, they are best done
under the supervision of a GP or mental health professional.
Another source of detailed information on the treatment of
depression in young people is beyondblues Clinical Practice
Guidelines: Depression in adolescents and young adults
(www.beyondblue.org.au). These guidelines, which are approved
by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC),
were developed by an expert advisory group including mental
health professionals, people who have experienced depression,
anxiety and related disorders, and carers. They are based on
a review of all available quality international research ndings.
The guidelines and a number of companion documents are
available to download or order from www.beyondblue.org.au
These approaches can be provided by a range of health practitioners,
including complementary practitioners. Some of them can be used as
self-help.
Complementary and lifestyle interventions
These interventions are generally provided by a doctor (usually a GP or
a psychiatrist).
Medical interventions
These therapies can be provided by a range of mental health practitioners,
but particularly psychologists and clinical psychologists.
Approaches that are not currently available or used as a treatment for
depression, but have been used in research studies.
Psychological interventions
Interventions that are not routinely available
This booklet has considered all of the interventions (medical, psychological
and complementary/lifestyle) that are claimed to be useful for depression.
However there are many treatments that were not able to be reviewed since
there have not been any studies of them in young people (see Interventions
reviewed but where no evidence was found on page 42).
Its also common for young people with depression to experience other mental
health problems, particularly anxiety, and alcohol or drug problems. In these
cases, different treatment approaches might be used to help manage the
other condition.
Unfortunately, this booklet does not review interventions that are designed
to treat other conditions, even though they may be used by someone
with depression.
Are ALL the available treatments reviewed in this
booklet or are some missing?
14
Key differences between this booklet and the
Clinical Practice Guidelines: Depression in adolescents and young adults
A guide to what works for depression in young people Clinical Practice Guidelines
Developed and written for young people to understand the scientic
evidence behind a range of interventions for depression.
Developed and written for health and other professionals who work
with young people to provide clinical guidance for preventing and
treating depression.
Provides reviews of all levels of evidence for complementary and lifestyle
therapies (including self-help approaches), psychological and medical
interventions for depression in 1425 year olds.
Reviews the high-level evidence for psychological and medical
treatments for depression in 1324 year olds.
Provides ratings of the effectiveness of each approach according to a
visual thumbs up scale. Criteria for each rating are provided on page 12.
Provides formal recommendations according to NHMRC Grades of
Evidence. In the absence of high Grades of Evidence, Good Practice
Points are included for clinical guidance.
Focuses on the evidence for treatments of acute episodes of
depressive disorders.
Focuses on evidence for prevention, acute treatment, maintenance
and relapse prevention of depressive disorders and the treatment of
bipolar disorder.
The main difference between the Clinical Practice Guidelines
and this booklet is that this booklet has been written for young
people aged 1425 to help them make informed choices about
potential treatment approaches for depression by providing a
summary of the scientic evidence for each intervention in an
easy- to-read format.
In contrast, the Clinical Practice Guidelines have been developed
and written for health professionals and other service providers
(for example, counsellors or school welfare coordinators) who
work with young people experiencing depression. The table below
shows other important differences between this booklet and the
Clinical Practice Guidelines.
15
SEARCHING THE LITERATURE
For each intervention review, the scientic literature was searched
systematically on a number of databases, including the Cochrane
Library, PubMed, PsycINFO and Web of Science. There was no
time limit for how long ago the research was done, but articles had
to be in English. For many of the searches, we relied on work that
had been done for an adult version of this booklet,
6
as well as two
review articles by one of the authors.
7,8
WHAT TYPE OF STUDIES WERE INCLUDED?
Studies were included if they involved people aged 14 to 25 who
had been diagnosed with a depressive disorder, or who had
sought help for depression. We didnt include studies that recruited
people through advertising, or included people who scored in the
not depressed point on a scale of depression. These groups were
excluded as they may be different from people who are seeking
help for depression, which is the focus of this booklet.
WHAT MAKES A STUDY GOOD QUALITY?
Research evidence can vary in terms of how strong or trustworthy
it is. Research that involves a randomised controlled trial (RCT) is
generally considered to be good quality, because the participants
have been randomly assigned to either the treatment group or
an appropriate control group that does not receive the treatment.
Being randomised is important because this reduces the chance
of bias creeping into the groups; an example being that all the
people with severe depression end up in one group, and all
the people with mild depression end up in the other. Randomly
assigning people to groups makes this less likely to happen.
When there is a number of RCTs on a particular treatment,
researchers might combine all the ndings into a systematic
review or meta-analysis. These are also considered good-quality
evidence, because combining the results of several similar studies
is usually more consistent than looking at one study alone.
Sometimes, there may not be an RCT or systematic review
on a particular treatment. This is especially the case for newer
interventions, or treatment approaches that have only recently
been used with a particular group (in this case, young people aged
14 to 25). In those cases, the only type of evidence that exists
might be small case studies involving several people who have all
received the treatment. This type of research isnt considered as
good quality because the results might not translate beyond the
few people included in the study.
It is also important to understand that many research studies
exclude people with serious suicidal thoughts, severe depressive
illnesses, and other complicating factors, such as drug and alcohol
use. However, the reality is that many people experience these
issues when they are depressed. Therefore, the conclusions we
can draw from the evidence are limited if only select groups of
depressed individuals are included in studies.
These sorts of studies are helpful in understanding whether a
single type of treatment does or doesnt work. But in the real
world, interventions are often combined. When treatments are
used together, their effects may be different. Understanding this
requires different research studies that look at how treatments
work in combination.
WRITING THE REVIEWS
Each review was written by one of the authors who evaluated the
research evidence. The review was then checked by a second
author for readability and clarity. All authors discussed and reached
consensus on the thumbs up rating for each intervention.
6 Jorm AF, Allen NB, Morgan AJ, Ryan S and Purcell R. A guide to what works for depression (2nd Edition),
beyondblue. Melbourne: 2013.
7 Morgan, AJ & Jorm, AF (2008). Self-help interventions for depressive disorders and depressive symptoms:
a systematic review. Annals of General Psychiatry, 7, 13.
8 Jorm AF, Allen NB, ODonnell CP, Parslow RA, Purcell R & Morgan AJ. (2006) Effectiveness of complementary and
self-help treatments for depression in children and adolescents. Medical Journal of Australia, 185(7): 368372.
How this booklet was developed
16
A summary of what works for depression
in young people
Complementary and lifestyle interventions
Light therapy
For Seasonal Affective Disorder in 1417 year olds:
For Seasonal Affective Disorder in 1825 year olds:
Massage
In 1417 year olds:
Medical interventions
Antidepressant medication
In 1417 year olds:
In 1825 year olds:
Psychological interventions
Behaviour therapy/Behavioural activation
In 1825 year olds
Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT)
Family therapy
In 1417 year olds:
Interpersonal therapy (IPT)
In 1417 year olds:
In 1825 year olds:
Problem solving therapy (PST)
17
Complementary and
lifestyle interventions
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Most bibliotherapy teaches people how to use cognitive behaviour
therapy (CBT) on themselves (see cognitive behaviour therapy page 31).
It can be used alone, or guided by a health professional. Guidance may
involve a health professional assessing the person, identifying depression
as the main problem and recommending an appropriate self-help book.
In some cases, the health professional may also contact the person to
see if the book is helpful.
DOES IT WORK?
Only one study has examined professionally-guided bibliotherapy
with depressed adolescents. The book used was Feeling Good.
Thirty participants were given four weeks to read the book and complete
the exercises included. They received weekly phone calls to see how
many pages they had read and how many of the exercises they had
completed. Bibliotherapy was found to be better than no treatment.
It reduced depressive symptoms immediately following treatment and
this benet was still present one month later.
Many people use self-help books to help with depression without ever
contacting a health professional. No studies have looked at whether
bibliotherapy works without health professional involvement in any
age group.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks. However, bibliotherapy may not be suitable
for everyone. Some people may lack enough concentration to read the
book or they may have poor reading skills.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to say whether bibliotherapy works for
treating depression in young people.
Bibliotherapy
(e.g. reading self-help books)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Bibliotherapy is a form of self-help that involves reading books or other written
material (sometimes over the internet). The books provide information and
homework exercises that the readers work through on their own. Only one self-
help book for depression (Feeling Good) has been researched with adolescents.
18
Computer or internet
treatments
(self-guided)
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
Computer or internet treatments are types of self-help that are delivered through
websites or interactive CDs. The most common is computerised cognitive
behaviour therapy (CCBT). CCBT involves a series of sessions of cognitive
behaviour therapy (CBT) on a computer. CCBT can be used with or without
support from a professional. This review covers self-guided CCBT, where there is
no involvement from a professional (see page 32 for the review on professionally
guided CCBT). One CCBT program that is suitable for young people and freely
available on the internet is:
s -OOD'9-(www.moodgym.anu.edu.au)
Other computer or internet treatments combine a number of different
psychological therapies (e.g. social skills training, CBT, relaxation training).
Two of these programs are suitable for young people and are freely available
on the internet:
s 2EACH/UT#ENTRAL(www.reachoutcentral.com.au)
s %COUCH(www.ecouch.anu.edu.au)
There are also computer programs designed to target problems in thinking that
can be associated with depression, like memory problems.
HOW ARE THEY MEANT TO WORK?
CBT is helpful for depression when delivered by a health professional.
Because CBT is carried out in a highly-structured way (in a series of
steps), it is well suited to being done via a computer.
DO THEY WORK?
Only one study has tested a self-guided version of CCBT in young adults.
One hundred and sixty depressed young adults received access to a
website offering CCBT or were directed to a website with information
about depression as a comparison. Participants were free to access the
websites when they wanted for eight months. Depression in the CCBT
group improved a small amount more than depression in the comparison
group. However, this website is not currently available to the public.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good-quality evidence yet to say whether self-guided
computer or internet treatments (including CCBT) work.
19
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It is not clear how exercise helps to improve depression, but low levels of
physical activity are often linked with depression. There are a few ideas on
how exercise might work, such as:
s IMPROVINGSLEEPPATTERNS
s CHANGINGTHELEVELSOFCHEMICALSINTHEBRAINSUCHASSEROTONIN
endorphins or stress hormones
s INTERRUPTINGNEGATIVETHOUGHTSTHATMAKEDEPRESSIONWORSE
s INCREASINGTHESENSEOFBEINGABLETOCOPEBYLEARNINGANEWSKILL
s MIXINGWITHOTHERSIFTHEEXERCISEISDONEINAGROUP
DOES IT WORK?
There have been two low-quality studies of exercise in depressed
adolescents. In both studies, the number of participants was low (11 in
one study and 19 in the other) and all were inpatients in a psychiatric
hospital at the time. Participants in both studies had behaviour problems
as well as depression. Both studies compared exercising (such as jogging
or doing weight training) to doing other activities (such as board games)
instead of exercising. Neither study found any benet of exercise in
reducing depression.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
People may injure themselves by exercising.
RECOMMENDATION
Whilst there is good evidence that exercise is helpful for depression in
adults, more high-quality research is needed before any conclusions can
be made about whether exercise works for depression in young people.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Depressed people tend to ruminate (think too much) about how they are
feeling. They might believe that this will lead to a greater understanding
of why they are depressed and how they can get better. Ruminating,
however, while feeling depressed may lead to more negative thinking and
make depression symptoms worse. Distraction can be used to interfere
with rumination and stop negative thinking. Once the depressed mood
has lifted, more effective problem solving can occur.
DOES IT WORK?
Only one study has looked at the effects of distraction on mood in 26
depressed adolescents. The distraction task involved thinking about
and visualising neutral things (e.g. a kettle coming to the boil, or a band
playing outside). Distraction was compared with a rumination task that
involved focusing on the persons feelings at the time (e.g. how you feel
about your friendships or how your body feels right now). The study
found that rumination maintained or worsened the depressed mood,
whereas distraction reduced depressed mood. The long-term effects
of the therapy were not evaluated.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to say whether distraction works. It may be
helpful for improving depressed mood temporarily, but it is likely that other
interventions are needed for more lasting improvements.
Distraction
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Distraction is taking attention away from depression and instead, focusing on
pleasant or neutral thoughts and actions.
Exercise
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
There are two main types of exercise. Aerobic exercise (such as jogging or
swimming) which works the heart and lungs and anaerobic exercise (such as
weight training) which strengthens muscles.
20
Light therapy
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Light therapy involves exposing the eyes to bright light for certain lengths of
time, often in the morning. The light comes from a special box or lamp which the
person sits in front of. These light boxes/lamps can be bought over the internet.
Different light boxes may use different parts of the light spectrum and different
light intensity.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Light therapy is mainly used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD),
particularly depression that comes on during winter. It is thought to work
by xing problems with the bodys internal rhythms caused by less
sunlight in winter. It is less clear how it is meant to work in depression
that does not vary with the seasons.
Light therapy boxes are described in terms of what lux they put out.
Lux is a measure of the amount of light you receive at a specic distance
from a light source. Light boxes for light therapy usually produce between
2,500 lux and 10,000 lux (with 10,000 lux being typical). The intensity
of a light box may determine how long the box needs to be used.
For example, 10,000 lux light boxes usually require 30-minute sessions,
while 2,500 lux light boxes may require two-hour sessions.
More information
Light therapy boxes can be ordered over the internet. However, not all light
therapy boxes have been tested to make sure they are safe and effective.
||' |rpc||a|| |c :|e:| W||| a |ea||| p|c|e|c|a| oe|c|e ou]|| a ||||
therapy box.
|| ]cu dc de:|de |c ou] c|e, ||' |rpc||a|| |c u|de||a|d W|a| ]cu'|e ou]||
and what features to consider.
|| | pa|||:u|a||] |rpc||a|| |c :|e:| ||e |||| oc/' a|e|] |ea|u|e.
FOR SEASONAL
AFFECTIVE DISORDER
IN 1417 YEAR OLDS
FOR SEASONAL
AFFECTIVE DISORDER
IN 1825 YEAR OLDS
THERE ARE NO STUDIES IN THIS SPECIFIC AGE
GROUP, BUT STUDIES IN ADULTS IN GENERAL
SHOW LIGHT THERAPY TO BE EFFECTIVE.
FOR NON-SEASONAL DEPRESSION
THERE IS A RISK OF MILD SIDE-
EFFECTS SUCH AS NAUSEA,
HEADACHE, JUMPINESS AND EYE
IRRITATION. IF THE WRONG TYPE OF LIGHT BULB
IS USED, THERE IS A RISK OF EYE DAMAGE FROM
INFRA-RED RADIATION.
DOES IT WORK?
Three studies have looked at light therapy in adolescents. In one study,
28 children and adolescents with SAD received either light therapy or
a placebo (dummy) treatment for one week. The light therapy group
received one hour of bright light (10,000 lux) plus two hours of dawn
stimulation (a maximum of 250 lux at 6.30am). The dummy treatment
consisted of ve minutes of dawn stimulation and one hour wearing
clear glasses while doing things like reading and watching TV. The result
showed that light therapy was better in reducing symptoms of SAD than
the dummy treatment.
A second study compared light therapy with relaxation therapy in nine
depressed adolescents. Five had SAD and four had non-seasonal
depression. Participants received either light therapy (2,500 lux for two
hours in the evening) or relaxation therapy, which involved listening to
a 15 minute tape-recording followed by 90 minutes of reading or doing
homework. Both treatments were given for six days. Light therapy was
more effective than relaxation in decreasing symptoms of depression,
but only in the group with SAD.
A third study looked at light therapy in 28 adolescents with non-seasonal
depression. Participants received light therapy (2,500 lux) or dim light
placebo (50 lux) for one hour in the morning for a week. After a week
participants then swapped treatments. Both light therapy and dim light
placebo improved depression with no difference between them.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Light therapy is safe, but may produce mild side-effects such as nausea,
headache, jumpiness and eye irritation. If the wrong type of light bulb is
used (e.g. incandescent lights) there is a risk of eye damage from infra-red
radiation. Cost is important to consider as light therapy boxes can be
expensive (usually ranging from $250 to $550).
RECOMMENDATION
There is some evidence that light therapy is effective for adolescents
with SAD, a disorder which is rare in Australia. There is no good-quality
evidence that it works for young people with non-seasonal depression.
There have not been any studies of light therapy in young adults aged
18 25 who have SAD or other forms of depression. There is a lot of
research to show that light therapy is effective in adults in general who
have SAD. It is fair to assume that it would also be effective in young
people aged 1825 with SAD, but specic studies in this age group
need to be carried out.
21
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It is not known how massage might help to treat depression. However,
it is possible that it reduces stress hormones or reduces feelings of
physical tension or arousal.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been two good studies of massage in depressed adolescents.
One study in depressed adolescent mothers compared massage to
relaxation training and the other study compared massage to watching
relaxing videos. Both studies found that massage produced a greater
improvement in depression symptoms 30 minutes after receiving a
massage. The study did not look at the longer-term effects of the
treatment.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is some evidence that massage is effective in the short term in
depressed adolescents. However, there are no studies about whether
massage works in young adults. Research is needed to nd out whether
it works in young adults.
Massage
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Massage involves manipulating soft body tissues by using the hands or a
mechanical device. Massage is often done by a trained professional. One of the
aims of massage is to relieve tension in the body.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It has been suggested that many cases of depression are due to
a lack of magnesium in nerve cells.
DOES IT WORK?
There has been only a single case study where magnesium was given
as an intervention to a depressed adolescent. The adolescent
showed rapid improvement in his depression after taking
magnesium supplements.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Taking too much magnesium can be toxic and even lead to death.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to say whether or not magnesium works
for depression in young people.
Magnesium
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Magnesium is a mineral present in food. It can also be taken as a supplement.
IN 1417 YEAR OLDS
IN 1825 YEAR OLDS
SIDE-EFFECTS OF LARGE DOSES
OF MAGNESIUM INCLUDE MILD
STOMACH PAIN AND DIARRHOEA.
TAKING AN EXCESSIVE AMOUNT OF
MAGNESIUM CAN BE TOXIC AND
EVEN LEAD TO DEATH.
22
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Music appears to affect brain systems that control emotions. This
emotional effect could be due to the rhythm and melody of the music or
to the personal meaning of the music to the individual.
DOES IT WORK?
Two studies have looked at the immediate effect of listening to music.
In one study, 28 adolescent girls with dysthymia (mild depression) listened
to uplifting pop songs or tried to relax on their own. Even though the
adolescents liked the music, it did not change their depressed mood.
In the second study, 48 depressed young adult mothers listened to either
classical or rock music. Both types of music improved mood. However,
these studies were low-quality studies since there was no comparison
group (i.e. a group who did not listen to music). No studies have looked at
the effects of regularly listening to music over a period of days or weeks.
There have been no studies of music in young adults.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to say whether listening to music can
help depression either immediately or in the long term.
Music
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
People can use music to change their mood. Music can be used as a self-help
therapy or can be carried out with the help of a professional music therapist.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Relaxation training is most commonly used as an intervention for anxiety.
Because anxiety and depression often occur together, it may reduce
depression as well.
DOES IT WORK?
Three good-quality studies have compared relaxation to other
interventions for depression. In one study, 32 depressed adolescent
mothers received 10 sessions of massage therapy or relaxation training.
The relaxation training did not improve depression symptoms, but it did
reduce anxiety. A second study gave 48 depressed adolescents ve to
eight sessions of either cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) or relaxation.
Relaxation training reduced depressive symptoms by the end of the
study, but it was much less effective than CBT. At six month follow-up,
however, there were few differences in depression levels between the
two groups. A third study compared light therapy to relaxation in nine
adolescents (ve with Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) and four with
non-seasonal depression). Relaxation training was more effective than
light therapy for those with non-seasonal depression, but it had no
benet for the group with SAD.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to say whether relaxation training works for
young people with depression.
Relaxation training
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
There are several different types of relaxation training. The most common type is
called progressive muscle relaxation. This teaches a person to relax by tensing
and then relaxing specic groups of muscles. Another type involves thinking of
relaxing scenes or places. Relaxation training can be learned from a professional
or done as self-help. On the internet, you can nd instructions for relaxation
exercises which are free or you can buy various CDs which guide you through
the process.
23
24
St Johns wort
(Hypericum perforatum)
Evidence rating
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It is not clear how St Johns wort works. However, it might increase the
supply of certain neurotransmitters (chemical messengers) in the brain
that are thought to be affected in depression. These are serotonin,
norepinephrine and dopamine.
DOES IT WORK?
There has been only one study of St Johns wort in 26 depressed
adolescents. Participants were asked to take 300 milligrams of St Johns
wort for eight weeks. They could also continue receiving other treatments
for depression. The results were mixed. The intervention worked for
those who took the correct dose for the full eight weeks. But over half
did not complete the eight week course. This was either because their
depression symptoms got worse and they were taken out of the study, or
they werent taking the right dose. This study was of poor quality because
there was no placebo (dummy pill) included.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
When taken alone, St Johns wort has fewer side-effects than
antidepressant medications. However, St Johns wort interacts with many
prescription medications. It can affect how these medications work and
produce serious side-effects.
WHAT IS IT?
St Johns wort is a small owering plant which has been used as a traditional
herbal remedy for depression. The plant gets its name because it owers around
the feast day of St John the Baptist. In Australia, St Johns wort extracts are widely
available in health food shops and supermarkets. However, in some other countries,
St Johns wort extracts are only available with a prescription.
SAMe
(s-adenosylmethione)
Evidence rating
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
SAMe is thought to affect the outer walls of brain cells, making cells
better able to communicate with each other. It may also be involved
in producing chemical messengers in the brain that are thought to be
affected by depression.
DOES IT WORK?
SAMe has not yet been properly tested in well-designed studies with
young people. It has been tried only in one adolescent with depression,
who had some benet when he took the pills as instructed.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
The Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (Australias regulatory
agency for medical drugs) has warned that people who are using
prescription antidepressants or who have bipolar disorder should
not use SAMe unless under the supervision of a health practitioner.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no good-quality evidence that SAMe works for young
people with depression. Even though research has shown that SAMe
is helpful for adults with depression, more research should be done
on its effectiveness in young people.
WHAT IS IT?
SAMe (pronounced sammy) is a compound that is made in the body and is
involved in many biochemical reactions. SAMe supplements are available from
some health food shops and pharmacies and generally, are quite expensive.
PEOPLE WHO ARE USING
ANTIDEPRESSANT MEDICATION
OR WHO HAVE BIPOLAR DISORDER
SHOULD NOT USE SAMe UNLESS UNDER
THE SUPERVISION OF A DOCTOR/HEALTH
PRACTITIONER.
ST JOHNS WORT INTERACTS
WITH A NUMBER OF PRESCRIPTION
MEDICATIONS (SEE OPPOSITE),
EITHER AFFECTING HOW THESE MEDICATIONS
WORK OR LEADING TO SERIOUS SIDE-EFFECTS.
PEOPLE WHO ARE TAKING OTHER MEDICATIONS
SHOULD CHECK WITH THEIR DOCTOR FIRST
BEFORE USING ST JOHNS WORT.
24
25
According to the Therapeutic Goods Administration, people taking any
of the following medications should not start using St Johns wort:
ora| oontraoept|ves aka 'the p|||'}
SSRl ant|depressants and re|ated drugs o|ta|opram, fuoxet|ne,
uvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, nefazodone)
Hlv protease |nh|b|tors |nd|nav|r, ne|fnav|r, r|tonav|r, saqu|nav|r}
Hlv non-nuo|eos|de reverse transor|ptase |nh|b|tors efav|renz,
nevirapine, delavirdine)
oyo|ospor|n, taoro||mus
warfar|n
d|gox|n
theophy|||ne
ant|-oonvu|sants oarbamazep|ne, phenobarb|tone, phenyto|n}
tr|ptans sumatr|ptan, naratr|ptan, r|zatr|ptan, zo|m|tr|ptan}.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to know whether St Johns wort works for
depression in young people. More research is needed.
Any young person taking prescribed medications (including the pill)
should check with a doctor before deciding whether to take St Johns
wort because of the risk of drug interactions. If a young person is already
taking it in combination with other prescribed medication, he/she should
see a doctor to talk about possible drug interactions.
25
HOW ARE THEY MEANT TO WORK?
Anti-convulsant drugs work by reducing excessive ring of nerve cells in
the brain. This helps to calm over-activity in the brain.
DO THEY WORK?
There are no good-quality studies of anti-convulsants for treating
depression in young people. One study looked at the medical les of
nine adolescents with depression who received an anti-convulsant to
see whether it improved their symptoms. Eight of the nine adolescents
were also on antidepressant medication. Overall, three showed good
improvement after the anti-convulsant was added to their treatment,
two showed mild improvement and four had no improvement.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Different types of anti-convulsants have different side-effects. Common
side-effects include developing a serious rash, feeling dizzy, nauseous,
tremor (shakes) and weight gain. Most side-effects lessen over time.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence as to whether anti-convulsants help in the
treatment of depression in young people.
Anti-convulsant
drugs
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
Anti-convulsant drugs are used mainly to treat epilepsy. Some are also commonly
used as a mood stabiliser in bipolar disorder, which means that they help to
reduce intense changes in mood. Anti-convulsants have also been used to treat
depression in adults that hasnt responded to other medications or psychological
therapies. These drugs are usually used along with an antidepressant, but they
can be used on their own.
More information
The most common anti-convulsants are known by the names valproate,
carbamazepine and lamotrigine.
Medical
interventions
COMMON SIDE-EFFECTS INCLUDE
FEELING DIZZY, HEAVILY SEDATED/
SLEEPY, NAUSEA, TREMOR,
WEIGHT GAIN, AND THE RISK OF
DEVELOPING A SERIOUS RASH.
26
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There is a link between taking SSRIs and SNRIs and increased suicidal
thinking and/or behaviour in young people. This link is particularly
strong in adolescents, but also in young adults. Because of these safety
concerns, no antidepressants are approved in Australia for treating
depression in adolescents.
All antidepressants also have other common side-effects, which can
include headache, nausea, feeling drowsy, sleep changes or sexual
problems (e.g. low sex drive). Some of these side-effects last for
only a short time. Some drugs have worse side-effects than others.
Overall, SSRIs appear to have fewer side-effects than other types
of antidepressants.
RECOMMENDATION
The only SSRI antidepressant for which there is strong evidence of benet
in adolescents is uoxetine (Prozac). This is recommended only for cases
of moderate to severe depression. More research is needed on the SNRI
venlafaxine medication before it can be recommended. For example, not
enough is known about its safety in young people.
There have been no studies of antidepressants in young adults. However,
there is a lot of research to show that antidepressants are effective in adults
with moderate to severe depression. In the absence of any research in
young adults, it is fair to assume that antidepressants would also work in
young adults with moderate or severe depression, but specic studies in
this age group must be carried out.
Regardless of age, antidepressant drugs are not recommended
for mild depression. Instead, psychological therapies are
recommended as the rst type of treatment.
There has been a lot of debate about giving antidepressants to young
people, due to suicide-related safety concerns. For any young person
who does take an antidepressant, a doctor should check ideally, every
week in the early stages of treatment if this intervention is helping
and whether there are any side-effects or signs of suicidal thinking or
behaviour. This is especially important in the rst four weeks of starting
on medication.
HOW ARE THEY MEANT TO WORK?
Different types of antidepressants work in slightly different ways, but they
all act on chemicals in the brain related to emotions and motivation.
DO THEY WORK?
There have been some studies comparing SSRI antidepressants to
a placebo (sugar pills that do not contain the drug) in depressed
adolescents aged 17 and younger. Reviews of these studies show that
the only SSRI found to be effective in reducing symptoms of depression
in this age group is uoxetine. There has only been one brief study of
the SNRI drug venlafaxine. This showed some benet in depressed
adolescents compared to a placebo.
There have been no studies that have looked at whether antidepressants
are effective in depressed young adults aged 18 to 25 years. However,
there is a lot of research in adults more generally that shows that
antidepressants work for moderate to severe depression.
Antidepressant
medications
(aka antidepressants)
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
Antidepressants are drugs that are used to treat depression. They can be
prescribed only by a doctor (e.g. a GP or a psychiatrist). There are many different
types of antidepressants. The group of antidepressants that are used the most
are called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). There are also serotonin
and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), the most common drug being
venlafaxine ( Efexor).
IN 1417
YEAR OLDS
IN 1825 YEAR OLDS
WITH MODERATE
TO SEVERE
DEPRESSION.
THERE ARE NO STUDIES IN THIS SPECIFIC AGE
GROUP, BUT STUDIES IN ADULTS IN GENERAL
SHOW ANTIDEPRESSANTS TO BE EFFECTIVE.
SOME ANTIDEPRESSANTS HAVE
BEEN ASSOCI ATED WITH INCREASED
SUICIDAL THINKING IN YOUNG PEOPLE.
ALL ANTIDEPRESSANTS HAVE COMMON SIDE-
EFFECTS, SUCH AS HEADACHE, NAUSEA, FEELING
DROWSY, OR SEXUAL PROBLEMS.
More information
Examples of SSRIs are citalopram (brand name Cipramil), escitalopram (Lexapro),
uoxetine (Prozac), uvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Aropax) and sertraline (Zoloft).
27
HOW ARE THEY MEANT TO WORK?
Different types of anti-psychotics work in different ways, but they all act
on chemicals in the brain.
DO THEY WORK?
In one study, six adolescents with psychotic depression were given an
anti-psychotic drug along with an antidepressant. This combination
helped to reduce the psychotic symptoms more than the depression
symptoms. A more recent study added on an anti-psychotic drug to an
antidepressant in 10 adolescents whose depression had not improved
with the depression medication alone. In seven out of the 10 cases,
the symptoms of depression improved.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Different anti-psychotics may produce different side-effects. Common
side-effects include feeling sedated (drowsy or knocked out), weight
gain and dry mouth. Movement problems in the arms, legs and face can
also occur depending on the type of anti-psychotic drug. Some side-
effects may need to be checked regularly by a doctor.
RECOMMENDATION
There are no good-quality studies on the use of anti-psychotic drugs for
depression in young people. For young people with psychotic depression,
there may be some benet in combining an anti-psychotic with an
antidepressant drug, as these help to reduce the psychotic symptoms,
but more research is needed before this add-on approach can be
recommended for treating psychotic depression.
Anti-psychotic
drugs
(aka major tranquilisers)
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
Anti-psychotics are usually used to treat psychotic disorders, such as
schizophrenia. They have also been used for bipolar disorder, psychotic
depression and for severe major depression that has not responded to
other treatments. They are usually used as an add-on treatment with an
antidepressant drug for depression, rather than used on their own.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It is not understood exactly how ECT works other than by stimulating
parts of the brain.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been a number of small case studies of ECT in young people
with severe depression who have not beneted from other treatments.
Most of the people in these studies experienced an improvement in their
depression symptoms immediately after having ECT. However, there have
not been any good-quality studies in which ECT has been compared to a
control treatment in young people with severe depression.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are risks associated with having a general anaesthetic. The most
common side-effects of ECT are confusion and memory problems, which
are usually experienced only in the short term.
RECOMMENDATION
More high-quality research is needed to understand whether ECT is
effective for young people with severe depression.
Electroconvulsive
therapy (ECT)
(aka shock therapy)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Generally, with ECT, electrical currents are passed though the brain to cause a
seizure. The treatment is given under a general anaesthetic (i.e. the person is
not awake). Usually, a series of ECT treatments is given over several weeks. ECT
is most often used for very severe depression that has not responded to other
treatments. It is also used where there is a risk of death from suicide or where the
person cannot or refuses to eat or drink, or when the person is experiencing
psychotic symptoms.
COMMON SIDE-EFFECTS INCLUDE
WEIGHT GAIN, DRY MOUTH, SEXUAL
PROBLEMS AND MOVEMENT
PROBLEMS IN THE LIMBS AND FACE.
ECT MAY CAUSE SHORT TERM
SIDE-EFFECTS SUCH AS CONFUSION,
PROBLEMS CONCENTRATING AND
MEMORY LOSS.
28
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It is not clear how lithium works other than to act on chemical
messengers in the brain.
DOES IT WORK?
There have not been any studies that have looked at whether lithium is
an effective treatment for depression in young people. There have been
some studies where lithium has been added to an antidepressant drug in
adolescents with severe depression. Symptoms of depression have been
found to improve for some of the people in these studies. However, these
studies were of low quality since there were no comparison groups.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Common side-effects of lithium include headaches, nausea and feeling
dazed. High levels of lithium in the blood can be toxic and cause more
serious side-effects, including seizures and in some cases death.
People who take lithium must have their blood monitored to make sure
the dose is at a safe level.
RECOMMENDATION
Lithium has not been tested as a stand alone treatment for depression
in young people. There is limited evidence that adding lithium to an
antidepressant might be useful in adolescents with severe depression,
but more high-quality studies are needed.
Lithium
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Lithium is a drug that is used mainly to treat bipolar disorder (previously known as
manic depression). Because it has been found to be effective for treating bipolar
disorder, it has also been used to treat other types of depression.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
It is not known exactly how TMS works other than by stimulating parts
of the brain.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been several small studies where TMS has been used in
adolescents with severe depression who havent beneted from other
treatments. In these studies, regular TMS was given over several weeks
while the person continued with other treatments, such as medication or
counselling. In two of these studies, symptoms of depression improved
after TMS for most of the recipients (nine out of 10). In a third study,
three out of nine adolescents benetted from the TMS. While these
results are promising, the studies were of low quality since there were no
comparison (control) groups.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There is a small risk of seizure with TMS given the use of electric currents.
Headaches have also been reported in studies. The effects of TMS on
memory, attention and concentration are not yet known.
RECOMMENDATION
More high-quality studies are needed before TMS can be recommended
for depression in young people.
Transcranial
magnetic
stimulation (TMS)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
TMS is a type of brain stimulation. A metal coil that contains an electric current is
held to the side of the head. This produces a magnetic eld that stimulates parts of
the brain. TMS is usually given daily or several times a week. It is used mainly for
people who have tried other treatments, but still have severe depression.
THERE CAN BE SERIOUS SIDE-
EFFECTS OF TOXIC LEVELS OF
LITHIUM IN THE BLOOD, INCLUDING
TREMOR AND CONVULSIONS, AND IN SOME
CASES DEATH. PEOPLE WHO TAKE LITHIUM
MUST HAVE THEIR BLOOD MONITORED BY
A DOCTOR.
THERE IS A LOW RISK OF SEIZURE
WITH TMS GIVEN THE USE OF
ELECTRIC CURRENTS. OTHER
SIDE-EFFECTS ON MEMORY, ATTENTION AND
CONCENTRATION ARE STILL BEING STUDIED.
29
Psychological
interventions
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Art therapy is based on the belief that making a work of art can be
healing. Issues that come up during art therapy are used to help people
to cope better with stress, work through traumatic experiences, improve
their judgment and have better relationships with family and friends.
DOES IT WORK?
Art therapy has not yet been tested properly in any well-designed studies
with young people. There has only been one case study of this therapy
with a 14-year-old girl with severe depression and post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD). After 48 sessions of art therapy, the girl felt less depressed.
A larger study looked at the effectiveness of art groups with 39 depressed
and suicidal adolescents. All participants were in hospital at the time.
They were assigned to either two art group sessions or two sessions of
recreational time (including time in the gym). Both groups also received
other treatment as usual within the hospital. The results showed
depression improved in both groups.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence yet to say whether art therapy works for
depression in young people.
Art therapy
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Art therapy encourages people to express their feelings through creating artwork
with paints, chalk or pencils. In art therapy, the person works one-on-one with a
professional, who combines other techniques with drawing, painting or other types
of artwork. Often the focus is on the emotional qualities of the art.
30
WHAT IS IT?
Behaviour therapy, also called behavioural activation, is a major part of cognitive
behaviour therapy (see opposite). However, it is different to CBT because it focuses
on increasing peoples levels of activity and pleasure in their lives. Unlike CBT, it
does not focus on changing the persons beliefs and attitudes. Behaviour therapy
can be done with individuals or groups and generally lasts between eight to
16 sessions.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Behaviour therapy aims to teach people who are depressed how
to become more active. This often involves doing activities that are
rewarding, either because they are pleasant (such as spending time
with good friends or engaged in hobbies) or give a sense of satisfaction
or achievement (e.g. a feeling of a job well done). This helps to change
patterns of withdrawal and inactivity that can make depression worse
and replace them with rewarding and enjoyable experiences that
reduce depression.
DOES IT WORK?
There has been several good quality studies that have examined
behaviour therapy in young adults. These studies show consistently that
behaviour therapy helps to reduce depressive symptoms compared to
no treatment. A lot of research has also compared behaviour therapy to
cognitive therapy. Across these studies behaviour therapy appears to be
less effective than cognitive therapy.
There has been less research on behaviour therapy in adolescents.
Only three case studies have been done, involving either one, three or
six adolescents. These studies have all found that symptoms of
depression improve, usually after many sessions of behaviour therapy
(e.g. 20 or more).
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
Behaviour therapy is an effective treatment for depression in young adults.
More high-quality studies are needed to determine if behaviour therapy
also works for depressed adolescents.
Behaviour therapy /
Behavioural activation
Evidence rating
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
CBT is thought to work by helping people to recognise patterns in
their thinking and behaviour that contribute to depression. For example,
depressed people may automatically create negative thoughts about
any situation. In CBT, the person works to change unhelpful patterns
of thinking to more realistic, helpful and problem-solving thinking. Also,
since depressed people often stop doing things that they previously
enjoyed, CBT can help to increase interest in activities that give them
pleasure or a sense of achievement. This is the behaviour part of CBT.
When people engage in helpful thinking and enjoyable activities, their
mood is expected to improve.
Cognitive behaviour
therapy (CBT)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
CBT is one of the most common treatments for depression. In CBT, the person
works with a professional to look at how his/her patterns of thinking (cognition)
and acting (behaviour) are making him/her feel depressed, or are keeping the
person from recovering from depression. CBT is a combination of two older types
of therapy, cognitive therapy and behaviour therapy. The focus on each part will
vary with professionals. CBT can be delivered one-on-one with a professional
or in groups. Treatment length can vary, but is usually between four to 24
weekly sessions.
continued overleaf...
IN 1417 YEAR OLDS
IN 1825 YEAR OLDS
IN 1417 YEAR OLDS
IN 1825 YEAR OLDS
THERE ARE NO STUDIES IN THIS SPECIFIC AGE
GROUP, BUT MANY STUDIES IN ADULTS IN
GENERAL SHOW CBT TO BE EFFECTIVE.
Whats an example of automatic negative thinking?
Imagine if you passed your friend X in the street and X didnt acknowledge you.
An automatic negative thought would be X hates me. An alternative, more
helpful thought might be perhaps X didnt see me or X looks really pre-
occupied I hope theyre OK.
31
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
Computer assisted therapies use computer technology to deliver treatments, usually
via the internet. Sometimes these approaches are also supported by a professional
who helps the person apply what they are learning to their life. The professional
communicates with the person doing the computer therapy over the phone, or by text,
instant messaging or email. Just about all the computer assisted therapy programs
are based on cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT).
There are also computer programs designed to target problems in thinking that can
be associated with depression, like memory problems.
HOW ARE THEY MEANT TO WORK?
The computer or web programs teach people the skills of CBT, which
helps them to identify and change patterns of thinking and behaviour that
might be keeping them from overcoming their depression (see cognitive
behaviour therapy previous page). Computer-based learning is seen
as a good way to make this therapy more widely available at low cost
to people than would otherwise be possible if everyone had to see a
professional face to face.
DO THEY WORK?
Only one study has tested a self-completed, computer-based treatment
with 31 depressed young adults. Participants did the computer therapy
(guided by a professional), received antidepressants, or used both
treatments. The computer program used games to target problems in
thinking that sometimes occur with depression, including poor memory
and difculty paying attention. The computer program was used for two,
30-minute sessions a week until the depression improved to a certain
level. The results showed that depression in all three groups improved.
However, people in the computerised cognitive behaviour therapy (CCBT)
and the combined treatment groups appeared to do better in keeping up
these improvements over time.
DOES IT WORK?
A review of 11 high-quality studies of CBT for depressed adolescents
showed that CBT is more effective than no treatment (e.g. being on
a waiting list), as well as other active treatments, such as relaxation
training or life skills training. On average, the treatments in these studies
involved 17 sessions. CBT was effective both as a group treatment and
as a one-on-one treatment with a professional. It has been shown to
work for adolescents with mild, moderate and severe depression.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is a lot of evidence that CBT is an effective treatment for depression
in adolescents. There have not been any studies of CBT in young adults
aged 18 to 25, but a large amount of research shows that CBT is
effective in adults in general.
Cognitive behaviour
therapy (CBT)
(continued)
Computer or internet
treatments
(professionally guided)
32
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Creative play is based on the belief that play is the childs natural way to
express him/herself. Children understand their world, express thoughts
and feelings, and develop social skills through play. Creative play provides
a way for children to express their feelings, explore relationships and
communicate their experiences and their wishes. It is believed to help
children as they often have difculty expressing their feelings in words
or saying how experiences have affected them.
DOES IT WORK?
There has been one high-quality study that compared group-based
creative play to interpersonal therapy (IPT) or no treatment in depressed
adolescents. These adolescents were all survivors of war in the African
country Uganda and had experienced high levels of violence. The results
showed that IPT was effective in reducing depressive symptoms.
However, there was no difference in depression between the group that
received creative play and those who received no treatment.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks, however creative play therapy may not be
acceptable to many adolescents, as it may be regarded as childish and
developmentally inappropriate.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence yet to say whether creative play works for
depression in adolescents. The only study to date suggests it may not
be helpful.
Creative play
(aka play therapy)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Creative play is a type of therapy usually used with children aged three to 11
years old. It provides a way for children to express their experiences and feelings
through play. Children can show their inner feelings through the toys and art
materials they choose to play with and how they play. As children mature, they
rely less on play as a way to express themselves. As a result, play therapy is not
typically used with adolescents or young adults.
Another study tested CCBT in 23 depressed adolescents who did the
sessions at their local mental health clinic under the supervision of a
professional. The stress busters course was done over eight weeks.
The results showed that after completing the course, participants
depression symptoms were much lower. These improvements were still
evident three months later, however, this was a low-quality study since
there was no comparison group.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good-quality evidence yet to say whether
professionally-guided computer or internet treatments (including
CCBT) work.
33
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
DMT is based on the idea that the body and mind work together. It is
thought that a change in the way someone moves will have an effect on
his/her patterns of feeling and thinking. DMT also assumes that dancing
and movement may help to improve the relationship between the person
and the professional and may help the person to express feelings of
which he/she is not aware. Learning to move in new ways may help
people to discover new ways of expressing themselves and new ways
to solve problems.
DOES IT WORK?
DMT has only been tested in one good-quality study with adolescent
girls. Forty adolescents took either 12 weeks of DMT or were placed
on a waiting list. The results showed that DMT was better at reducing
symptoms of depression than no treatment.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
Currently, there is not enough evidence yet to say whether DMT is an
effective therapy for depression in young people.
Dance and
movement
therapy (DMT)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
DMT combines expressive dancing with more common psychological treatments
for depression, such as talking about the persons life difculties. It can be
delivered in a group or individual therapy. A DMT session usually involves a
warm-up and a period of expressive dancing or movement. This is followed by
talking about feelings and thoughts about the experience and how it relates to the
persons life situation.
Eye movement
desensitization and
reprocessing (EMDR)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
EMDR was developed to treat symptoms resulting from disturbing or traumatic
experiences. It is most commonly used as a treatment for post-traumatic stress
disorder ( PTSD). It involves recalling traumatic life experiences for short periods
of time (1530 seconds), while at the same time moving the eyes back and forth.
Sometimes another task, such as hand tapping or listening to sounds, is used
instead of eye movements.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
There are two theories about how EMDR works. One says that eye
movements specically help the person to deal with traumatic memories
at a biological and psychological level. The other says that the eye
movements do not have a special role in dealing with the traumatic
memories. Rather they simply help the person to confront his/her
disturbing memories (see behaviour therapy; page 31), which is really
responsible for the improvements.
DOES IT WORK?
There has only been one study that used EMDR to treat depression
in two adolescents. In both cases, the adolescents had experienced
stressful life events (but not trauma), which was thought to have led to the
development of the depression. After three to seven sessions of EMDR
that focused on the stressful memories, the pairs depression symptoms
had reduced to the point where they were no longer depressed.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Confronting traumatic memories can be extremely distressing for some
people and may best be done with the support of a health professional.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence as to whether EMDR is effective for
depression in young people. It is also not clear whether EMDR would
work for people who have not experienced stressful or traumatic events
associated with the development of their depression.
34
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Family therapists believe that involving the family in the solution to a
problem is the most helpful approach. This is based on the idea that
relationships play a large role in how people feel about themselves.When
family relationships are supportive and honest, this will often help to
resolve problems and improve the mood of family members.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been four good-quality studies of family therapy for
depression in adolescents. One study of 107 adolescents compared
family therapy, cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) and supportive therapy.
Each therapy was provided for between 12 and 16 weeks. Family therapy
was less effective than CBT in the short term (i.e. at the end of the
study), but just as effective in the long term (i.e. two years later). In the
second study, 32 depressed adolescents received family therapy or were
placed on a waiting list. The results showed that family therapy was more
effective than no treatment. Another study by the same researchers then
randomly assigned 66 depressed adolescents to three months of family
therapy or treatment-as-usual. Family therapy was better than standard
Family therapy
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
In family therapy, family relationships are seen as an important factor in
depression. Usually, the whole family or at least some family members
will attend treatment with a professional, not just the family member who has
depression. The professional tries to help all family members change how they
communicate so that their relationships are more supportive and there is less
conict. Family therapy is most often used with children or adolescents, rather
than young adults.
In family therapy, no one person is seen as the problem.
The professional focuses on looking at why the problem keeps on happening,
rather than on what caused the problem or who is to blame.
More information
treatment at reducing both depressive symptoms and suicidal thinking.
The nal study compared psychodynamic psychotherapy with family
therapy in children and young adolescents. There were no differences
between the groups at the end of nine months of treatment.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks. When considering family therapy, it is important
to make sure that the young person is happy to involve his/her family in
the therapy. Putting pressure on a young person to involve his/her family
may put the person off getting help.
RECOMMENDATION
Family therapy is an effective treatment for depression in adolescents,
but more large studies are needed before we can be more condent of
its benets. There are no studies of family therapy in young adults aged
18 to 25.
IN 1417 YEAR OLDS
35
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
There are different types of hypnosis treatments for depression.
However, all use hypnosis to help the person to make important
changes. These can include changing ways of thinking, dealing with
emotional conicts, focusing on strengths or becoming more active.
It is thought that these changes are easier to make when the person
is in a hypnotic state.
DOES IT WORK?
There are only two case studies of the use of hypnosis for depression in
young adults. Both involved the use of cognitive treatments (see cognitive
behaviour therapy; page 31) under several sessions of hypnosis (e.g.
controlling negative thinking, or improving self-esteem and condence). In
both cases, the participants reported that their depression improved
after hypnosis.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known major risks. However, hypnosis needs to be delivered
by a properly trained mental health professional. Otherwise, it is possible
that some people might become distressed by strong feelings or mental
images, or they might become dependent on their therapist.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to say if hypnosis can be used to treat
depression in young people.
Hypnosis
(aka hypnotherapy)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Hypnosis involves a therapist (or hypnotherapist) helping a person to achieve
a hypnotic state. This is a state of mind where the person under hypnosis
experiences thoughts and images that seem very real. Time may pass more
slowly or more quickly than usual when in this altered state of mind. People under
hypnosis often notice things that are passing through their mind that they might
not otherwise notice. They may also nd that they are able to ignore or forget
certain painful experiences, including physical pain. When people think about
hypnosis, they may think about the therapist swinging a small pocket watch on
a chain in front of a persons face. It is not always done this way, but the person
does lie or sit back in a comfortable position.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
IPT is thought to work by helping people to recognise patterns in their
relationships with other people that make them more vulnerable to
depression. In IPT, the professional focuses on specic problems with
personal relationships. For example, the professional may focus on grief
over lost relationships, different expectations in relationships between the
person taking IPT and others, giving up old roles to take on new ones,
or difculties getting along with other people. IPT aims to help people to
improve their depression by helping them to overcome these problems.
Interpersonal
therapy (IPT)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
IPT is a type of counselling that focuses on problems in personal relationships
and on building skills to deal with these problems. IPT is based on the idea
that problems in personal relationships are an important part of the cause of
depression. It is different from other types of therapy for depression because it
focuses more on the persons personal relationships (e.g. with friends, intimate
partners, teachers, parents, siblings) than what is going on in the persons
mind (e.g. thoughts and feelings). IPT can be delivered through either group or
individual sessions. When used with adolescents, IPT can involve just the young
person, or his/her parent/s as well.
Whats an example of a problem role in
personal relationships?
Young people can face difculties in role transition thats when a persons
role changes and he/she doesnt know how to cope with it. Examples of role
transitions include:
s DEALINGWITHGROWINGINDEPENDENCEFROMPARENTS
s lNISHINGMOVINGSCHOOL
s lRSTEXPERIENCEOFASEXUALRELATIONSHIP
s STARTINGAJOB
s lRSTEXPERIENCEOFTHEDEATHOFSOMEONE
IN 1417 YEAR OLDS
IN 1825 YEAR OLDS
THERE ARE NO STUDIES IN THIS SPECIFIC AGE
GROUP, BUT STUDIES IN ADULTS IN GENERAL
SHOW IPT TO BE EFFECTIVE.
HYPNOSIS SHOULD BE PROVIDED
BY A QUALIFIED MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONAL WHO IS TRAINED IN
THIS TECHNIQUE.
36
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
When people are depressed, they often feel that their problems cant be
solved because they are too difcult or overwhelming. This will sometimes
lead to people either ignoring their problems, or trying to solve them
in unhelpful ways. PST helps people to break out of this pattern and
discover new, more effective ways of dealing with their problems.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been three good-quality studies of PST with depressed
young people. In one study, 264 severely depressed and suicidal young
adults received either group-based PST or standard hospital treatment.
The results showed that both treatments were effective in reducing
participants depressive symptoms.
The second study compared individual PST to no treatment in 46 depressed
adolescents and young adults. The group receiving PST improved more
than the group that had no treatment. The improvements in the PST group
appeared to be maintained until at least a year after treatment ended.
The third study compared social PST to supportive therapy in 18 severely
depressed and suicidal young adults. Both treatments were group-based.
The results showed that social PST was more effective than supportive
therapy for reducing depression three months later.
Problem solving
therapy (PST)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
PST focuses on teaching people how to deal with problems better. This involves
being taught by a professional to work through different stages in thinking about
problems. These stages include:
s CLEARLYIDENTIFYINGTHEIRPROBLEMS
s THINKINGOFDIFFERENTSOLUTIONSFOREACHPROBLEM
s CHOOSINGTHEBESTSOLUTION
s DEVELOPINGANDCARRYINGOUTAPLAN
s SEEINGIFTHISSOLVESTHEPROBLEM
PST can be delivered through group or individual sessions.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been three good-quality studies of IPT among depressed
adolescents. One study of 71 adolescents found that IPT was more
effective in reducing depression symptoms than cognitive behaviour
therapy (CBT) at the end of the treatment, although both groups were
doing equally well at a three-month follow-up. Another study of 63
adolescents found IPT to be better than support from a school counsellor.
Most studies have involved the depressed person and a professional
working one-on-one, but there is one study that shows that group IPT is
also effective.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There are several good-quality studies to show that IPT is an effective
treatment for adolescent depression, but more studies in this age group
would be benecial. There have been no studies of IPT in young adults
aged 18 to 25, however there is a lot of research to show that IPT is
effective in adults in general.
continued overleaf...
37
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is emerging research that PST is an effective treatment for
depression in young people, although more research is needed before
PST can be considered a well-established treatment for depression.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
This therapy focuses on the thoughts, images and feelings that pass
through the persons mind. The professionals relationship with the person
is also used to understand emotional problems of which he/she is not
aware. The therapy is based on the belief that some people fail to have
a good sense of self-worth after difcult life events. This can lead to
depression. By making the person more aware of these conicts, he/she
can deal with them and resolve the issues that caused depression.
DOES IT WORK?
There have been two good-quality studies of psychodynamic
psychotherapy in young adolescents with depression. The rst compared
psychotherapy to a waiting-list control in a sample of 20 depressed
children and adolescents. The results showed that 20 per cent of the
treatment sample improved, compared to none of the control group.
The other study compared psychodynamic psychotherapy with family
therapy in children and young adolescents (less than 14 years old).
There were no differences between the groups at the end of nine months
treatment. A larger study examined the benets of weekly or more
intensive (e.g. multiple sessions per week) psychotherapy in 65 children
and adolescents. It was reported that 75 per cent had no depressive
symptoms at the end of treatment. However this is a low-quality study
since no comparison group was included.
There has been one study of psychodynamic psychotherapy in young
adults with depression. Eleven participants received therapy for 12
months (involving up to 80 individual sessions), however only small
decreases in depressive symptoms were found at the end of treatment.
Psychodynamic
psychotherapy
(aka psychoanalysis)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Psychodynamic psychotherapy focuses on how unconscious patterns in peoples
minds (e.g. thoughts and feelings they are not aware of) may play a role in their
problems. Short-term therapy usually takes less than a year, while long-term
therapy can take more than a year. Long-term therapy is sometimes called
psychoanalysis. It can involve lying on a couch while the professional listens to
the person talk about whatever is going though his/her mind. However, more
often the person and professional sit and talk to each other like in other types
of counselling.
Problem solving
therapy (PST)
(continued)
38
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
No major risks are known. However, long-term therapy can be expensive
and take a lot of time. It might be worth considering whether a short-term
treatment may be just as effective.
RECOMMENDATION
Two small, good-quality studies of psychodynamic psychotherapy
suggest that this therapy is benecial, but the people in these studies
have mainly been children or very young adolescents (less than 14 years).
There is not enough research on this treatment yet for depressed
adolescents aged 1417 or young adults for it to be recommended.
More good-quality studies in these age groups are needed.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Psychoeducation helps people to develop better knowledge about their
depression. For example, learning about what affects their depression
(e.g. what kind of things trigger it, what makes it worse, what kind of
things can help). As well as providing information, the professional also
works to support the persons strengths, resources and coping skills.
This helps avoid a relapse (i.e. getting depressed again) and assists
people to manage their own mental health in the long term.
DOES IT WORK?
There has only been one good-quality study about psychoeducation
for depression in young people. This study looked at whether family
psychoeducation added to the benets of standard treatment in 31
adolescents with moderate to severe depression. Standard treatment
included individual or group support and counselling and/or medication.
Family psychoeducation sessions took place in the persons home and
all family members were involved. The results showed that adding family
psychoeducation to standard treatment helped to improve depression.
However, the biggest improvement was in the family relationships.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence yet as to whether psychoeducation is
effective for depression in young people.
Psychoeducation
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Psychoeducation aims to help people understand their mental health problems and
how they can better deal with their symptoms. Psychoeducation tends to be used
along with other treatments (e.g. cognitive behaviour therapy) rather than on its
own. It can take place either one-on-one with a professional or in group sessions.
Family members can also be involved.
39
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Supportive therapy works on the theory that some people do best in
an accepting, non-judgemental environment. This helps the person to
cope with day-to-day problems and deal with issues that are hard to
change. Getting support and acceptance from the professional can help
people to cope better, even if they cant change some of the problems
theyre facing.
DOES IT WORK?
Several studies have looked at supportive therapy for depression in
young people. In one study, 107 adolescents received supportive
therapy, cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) or family therapy.
Supportive therapy was less effective than CBT after three months of
treatment, but two years later, both groups were doing equally well.
Another study compared group-based supportive therapy and social
problem solving therapy (PST) in 18 severely depressed young adults.
Supportive therapy was less effective in reducing depression symptoms.
A nal study compared supportive therapy to social skills training in 66
depressed adolescents. Supportive therapy was more effective at the
end of treatment, but nine months later, both groups were doing about
the same.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
Supportive therapy may be helpful for depression, but it is likely to be
less effective than a specic treatment such as CBT or interpersonal
therapy (IPT).
Supportive therapy
(aka supportive counselling)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Supportive therapy helps people to function better by giving personal support.
In general, the professional does not ask the person to change his/her behaviour
or thinking styles. Instead, the professional acts as a support person, allowing
the person who is taking supportive therapy to reect on his/her life situation in
a setting where he/she feels accepted.
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Poor social skills and relationship problems with friends, family or teachers
are thought to contribute to depression. This is because if people have
poor social skills, they are likely to get negative feedback when theyre
with other people. This can lead to low self-esteem and a negative
outlook on life. Teaching positive social skills makes it more likely that a
person will have positive experiences in social situations.
DOES IT WORK?
There have only been two studies of social skills training for treating
depression in adolescents. In one study, 66 adolescents received either
social skills training or supportive therapy. Supportive therapy was more
effective than skills training at the end of the study, but nine months later,
there was no difference between the groups. The other study compared
social skills training to art group therapy. Social skills training was more
effective than art therapy in reducing depression symptoms in males.
There were no differences in depression symptoms for females in the
two treatment groups.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
There are no known risks.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to show that social skills training is effective
for depression in young people.
Social skills training
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Social skills training focuses on helping to improve social skills. The aim is to
help people develop and maintain good relationships. These treatments focus
on changing unhelpful social behaviours as well as unhelpful ways of thinking
or feeling.
What are some behaviours that social skills training might
help improve?
|ee||| |e |] W|e| |a|||| |c c||e|
|ee||| rc|e :c||de|| c| pc|||.e || c:|a| ||ua||c|
\c| oe|| a||] c| a|e|.e W||| c||e|
U|de||a|d|| c:|a| :ue (e.. W|e| pecp|e a|e oc|ed c| e|||| upe|,.
40 40
Interventions that
are not routinely
available
HOW IS IT MEANT TO WORK?
Ketamine affects brain chemicals that are different from those affected by
antidepressant drugs. It is thought to work by blocking the brain chemical
glutamate from sending its messages in the brain.
DOES IT WORK?
One study tested a single dose of ketamine, given through an intravenous
line (a drip) versus a dummy salt solution in 18 adults with severe or long-
standing depression. Included in the study, was one 18-year-old whose
depression symptoms improved more from taking the ketamine than from
taking the dummy salt solution.
ARE THERE ANY RISKS?
Used under medical supervision, ketamine is relatively safe. However, the
side-effects of ketamine can be serious. These include changes to vision
or hearing, feeling confused, high blood pressure, feeling high, dizziness,
and increased interest in sex. Abuse of this drug can result in very serious
health effects, including death.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough research in young people to say whether ketamine
is effective for depression. Much more work is also needed to explore the
safety of this drug.
Ketamine
(aka special K, kit kat, jet)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Ketamine is used mainly as an anaesthetic in vet practices to sedate animals.
It is also an illegal street drug. Ketamine is a new, experimental approach for
depression. When ketamine was used for depression in the one study, very low
doses were injected.
SERIOUS SIDE-EFFECTS, INCLUDING
DEATH, MAY OCCUR FROM USING
KETAMINE. THIS IS AN EXPERIMENTAL
TREATMENT THAT IS NOT AVAILABLE FROM
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS/DOCTORS.
41 41
Interventions reviewed but
where no evidence was found
5-hydroxy-l-trytophan
American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius)
Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera)
Astragalus (Astragalus membranaceous)
Ayurvedic medicine
Bach ower remedies (including Rescue Remedy)
Basil (Ocimum spp)
Berocca
Biotin
Black cohosh (Actaea racemosa or Cimicfuga racemosa)
Borage (Borago ofcinalis)
Brahmi (Bacoppa monniera)
Californian poppy (Eschsholtzia californica)
Carnitine/Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Catnip (Nepata cataria)
Cats claw (Uncaria tomentosa)
Chamomile (Anthemis nobilis)
Chaste tree berry (Vitex agnus castus)
Chinese medicinal mushrooms
(Reishi or Lingzhi, Ganoderma Lucidum)
Choline
Chromium
Clove (Eugenia caryphyllata)
Coenzyme Q10
Combined preparations (EMPowerplus Truehope
Nutritional Support Ltd))
Cowslip (Primula veris)
Damiana (Turnera diffusa)
Dandelion (Taraxacum ofcinale)
Euphystose
Feldenkrais
Flax seeds (linseed) (Linum usitatissimum)
Folate
Foti-tieng (Chinese herbal tonic)
Fragrance or perfume
-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
Ginger (Zingiber ofcinale)
Ginkgo biloba
Ginseng (Panax ginseng)
Glutamine
Gotu kola (centelle asiatica)
Hawthorn (Crataegus laevigata)
Hellerwork
Hops (Humulus lupulus)
Hyssop (Hyssopus ofcinalis)
Inositol
Kampo (Japanese herbal therapy)
Kava (Piper methysticum)
Korean ginseng
Lavender
Lecithin
Lemon balm (Melissa ofcinalis)
Lemongrass leaves (Cymbrogon citrates)
Licorice (Glycrrhiza glabra)
Melatonin
Milk thistle (Silybum marianum)
Mindsoothe or Mindsoothe Jr (Native Remedies)
Mistletoe (Viscum album)
Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca)
Multivitamins
Natural progesterone
Nettles (Urtica dioca)
Nicotinamide
Oats (Avena sativa)
Omega-3 fatty acids
Painkillers/over-the-counter medicines
Para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA)
Passionower (Passiora incarnata)
Peppermint (Mentha piperita)
Phenylalanine
Potassium
Purslane (Portulaca oleracea)
Rehmannia (Rehmannia glutinosa)
Rhodiola rosea
Rosemary (Rosmarinus ofcinalis)
Saffron
Sage (Salvia ofcinalis)
Schizandra (Schizandra chinensis)
Sedariston
Selenium
Siberian ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus)
Skullcap (Scutellaria lateriora)
Spirulina (Arthrospira platenis)
St Ignatius bean (Ignatia amara)
Suanzaorentang
Taurine
Tension Tamer tea
Thyme (Thymus vulgaris)
Tissue salts
Tragerwork
Tyrosine
Valerian (Valeriana ofcinalis)
Vervain (Verbena ofcinalis)
Vitamins (B, C, D, E, K)
Wild yam (Dioscorea villosa)
Wood betony (Stachys ofcinalis or Betonica ofcinalis)
Worry Free
Yeast
Zinc
Herbs, Vitamins and Minerals
(complementary or self-help treatments)
42
Anti-anxiety drugs
Anti-glucocorticoid (AGC) drugs
Oestrogen
Stimulant drugs
Testosterone
Medications
(prescribed by a doctor)
Singing
Tai chi
Traditional Chinese medicine
Yoga
Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT)
Acupuncture
Adequate sleep
Alexander technique
Aromatherapy
Autogenic training
Balneotherapy or bath therapy
Colour therapy, chromotherapy or colorology
Crystal healing or charm stone
Dolphins (swimming with)
Gerson therapy
Holiday or vacation
Homeopathy
Horticulture therapy
Humour/humour therapy
LeShan distance healing
Meditation
Mindfulness based cognitive therapy (MBCT)
Music therapy
Narrative therapy
Neurolinguistic programming (NLP)
Pets
Pilates
Pleasant activities
Prayer
Qigong
Recreational dance
Reiki
Relationship therapy
Reminiscence therapy
Sex to relax
Shopping
Psychological and lifestyle treatments
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS)
Medical treatments
Air ionization
Craniosacral therapy or cranial osteopathy
Hydrotherapy
Kinesiology
Osteopathy
Reexology
Sleep deprivation
Sleep hygiene
Physical treatments
Alcohol avoidance
Alcohol for relaxation
Avoiding certain food types (barley, rye, wheat, dairy
foods)
Caffeine avoidance
Caffeine consumption
Chocolate
Ketogenic diet
Marijuana avoidance/consumption
Nicotine avoidance
Smoking a cigarette/quitting smoking
Sugar avoidance
Carbohydrate rich/protein poor diet
Dietary and other changes
43
Anti-convulsant drugs
Carandang C, Robbins D, Mullany E, Yazbek M, Minot S.
Lamotrigine in adolescent mood disorders: a retrospective
chart review. Journal of the Canadian Academy of Child
and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2007; 16(1):1-8.
Antidepressant drugs
Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee.
Use of SSRI antidepressants in children and adolescents.
Updated statement 15 October 2004.
www.tga.gov.au/adr/adrac_ssri.htm
Emslie GJ, Findling RL, Yeung PP, Kunz NR, Li Y. Venlafaxine
ER for the treatment of pediatric subjects with depression:
results of two placebo-controlled trials. Journal of the
American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry,
2007; 46(4):489-92.
Hetrick SE, Merry SN, McKenzie J, Sindahl P, Proctor M.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for depressive
disorders in children and adolescents. Cochrane Database of
Systematic Reviews, 2009; Issue 3. Art. No.: CD004851.
Newton S, Docter S, Reddin E et al. Depression in
Adolescents and Young Adults: Evidence Review. Adelaide:
Adelaide Health Technology Assessment (AHTA), University of
Adelaide; 2010.
References
Complementary and lifestyle interventions
Medical interventions
Bibliotherapy
Ackerson JD. The effects of cognitive bibliotherapy on
adolescent depression: Treatment outcome and predictors
of success. Thesis, University of Alabama, 1993; 139 pages.
Ackerson J, Scogia F, McKendree-Smith N, Lyman RD.
Cognitive bibliotherapy for mild and moderate adolescent
depressive symptomatology, Journal of Consulting and
Clinical Psychology, 1998; 66(4):685-90.
Computer or Internet Treatments (self guided)
Clarke G, Kelleher C, Hornbrook M, DeBara L, Dickerson J,
Gulliona C. Randomized effectiveness trial of an Internet,
pure self-help, cognitive behavioral intervention for
depressive symptoms in young adults. Cognitive Behaviour
Therapy, 2009; 38(4): 222-234.
Distraction
Park RJ, Goodyer IM, Teasdale JD. Effects of induced
rumination and distraction on mood and overgeneral
autobiographical memory in adolescent major depressive
disorder and controls. Journal of Child Psychology and
Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines, 2004; 45(5):996-1006.
Exercise
Brown SW, Welsh MC, Labbe EE, et al. Aerobic exercise
in the psychological treatment of adolescents. Perceptual
and Motor Skills, 1992; 74(2):555-60.
Cohen-Kahn DD. The effects of a graded mastery weight-
training program on depression and overall functioning in
inpatient adolescents. Dissertation Abstracts International:
Section B: the Sciences & Engineering, 1995; 55
(8-B):Feb-B.
Larun L, Nordheim LV, Ekeland E, Hagen KB, Heian F.
Exercise in prevention and treatment of anxiety and
depression among children and young people. Cochrane
Database of Systematic Reviews, 2006. CD004691.
Azur D, Ball K, Salmon J, Cleland V. The association between
physical activity and depressive symptoms in young women:
a review. Mental Health and Physical Activity, 2008;1:82-8.
Light therapy
Niederhofer H, von Klitzing K. Bright light treatment of non-
seasonal depression for 28 adolescents. Neuroscience and
Medicine 2(4): 341-346.
Sonis WA, Yellin AM, Garnkel BD, Hoberman HH.
The antidepressant effect of light in seasonal affective
disorder of childhood and adolescence. Psychopharmacology
Bulletin, 1987; 23(3):360-3.
Swedo SE, Allen AJ, Glod CA, et al. A controlled trial of light
therapy for the treatment of pediatric seasonal affective
disorder. Journal of the American Academy of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry, 1997; 36(6):816-21.
Magnesium
Eby GA, Eby KL. Rapid recovery from major depression
using magnesium treatment. Medical Hypotheses, 2006;
67:362-70.
Massage
Field T, Grizzle N, Scadi F, Schanberg S. Massage and
relaxation therapies effects on depressed adolescent
mothers. Adolescence, 1996; 31(124):903-911
Field T, Morrow C, Valdeon C, et al. Massage reduces
anxiety in child and adolescent psychiatric patients.
Journal of the Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry,
1992; 31(1):125-31.
Music
Field T, Martinez A, Nawrocki T, et al. Music shifts frontal EEG
in depressed adolescents. Adolescence, 1998; 33:109-16.
Tornek A, Field T, Hernandez-Reif M, Diego M, Jones N.
Music effects on EEG in intrusive and withdrawn mothers
with depressive symptoms. Psychiatry, 2003; 66:234-43.
Relaxation training
Wood A., Harrington R. & Moore A. Controlled trial of a brief
cognitive-behavioural intervention in adolescent patients
with depressive disorders. Journal of Child Psychology and
Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines, 1996; 37(6):737-46.
Field T, Grizzle N. Massage and relaxation therapies effects
on depressed adolescent mothers. Adolescence, 1996;
31(124):903-12.
Sonis WA, Yellin AM, Garnkel BD, Hoberman HH.
The antidepressant effect of light in seasonal affective disorder
of childhood and adolescence.
Psychopharmacology Bulletin, 1997; 23(3):360-3.
SAMe (s-adenosylmethione)
Schaller JL, Thomas J, Bazzen AJ. SAMe use in
children and adolescents. European Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry, 2004; 13:332-4.
St Johns wort (Hypericum perforatum)
Simeon J, Nixon MK, Milin R, Jovanovic R, Walker S.
Open-label pilot study of St. Johns Wort in adolescent
depression. Journal of Child and Adolescent
Psychopharmacology, 2005; 15(2):293-301.
44
Usala T, Clavenna A, Zuddas A, Bonati M. Randomised
controlled trials of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
in treating depression in children and adolescents:
A systematic review and meta-analysis. European
Neuropsychopharmacology (2008) 18, 6273.
Anti-psychotic drugs
Geller B, Cooper TB, Farooki ZQ, Chestnut EC. Dose
and plasma levels of nortriptyline and chlorpromazine in
delusionally depressed adolescents and of nortriptyline in
non-delusionally depressed adolescents. American Journal of
Psychiatry, 1985; 142(3):336-8.
Pathak S, Johns ES, Kowatch RA. Adjunctive quetiapine
for treatment-resistant adolescent major depressive
disorder: A case series. Journal of Child and Adolescent
Psychopharmacology, 2005; 15(4):696-702
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)
Ghaziuddin N, Kutcher SP, Knapp P, Bernet W, Arnold
V, Beitchman J, et al. Practice parameter for use of
electroconvulsive therapy with adolescents. Journal of the
American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2004;
43(12): 1521-1539.
Croarkin PE, McCaffrey P, McClintock SM, Rodez C, Husain
MM. Electroconvulsive therapy in child and adolescent
psychiatry. Current Psychiatry Reviews, 2009; 5, 298-305.
Lithium
Ryan ND, Meyer V, Dachille S, Mazzie D, Puig-Antich J. Lithium
antidepressant augmentation in TCA-refractory depression in
adolescents. Journal of the American Academy of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry, 1988; 27(3):371-76.
Strober M, Freeman R, Rigali J, Schmidt S, Diamond R.
The pharmacotherapy of depressive illness in adolescence:
II. Effects of lithium augmentation in nonresponders to
imipramine. Journal of the American Academy of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry, 1992; 31(1):16-20.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)
Bloch Y, Grisaru N, Harel EV, Beitler G, Faivel N, Ratzoni G, et al.
Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in the treatment
of depression in adolescents: an open-label study. Journal of
ECT 2008; 24: 156-159.
DAgati D, Bloch Y, Levkovitz Y, Reti I. rTMS for adolescents:
Safety and efcacy considerations. Psychiatry Research 2010;
177: 280285.
Loo C, McFarquhar T, Walter G. Transcranial magnetic
stimulation in adolescent depression. Australasian Psychiatry,
2006; 14: 81-85.
Wall CA, Croarkin PE, Sim LA, Husain MM, Janicak PG, Kozel,
FA, et al. Adjunctive use of repetitive transcranial magnetic
stimulation in depressed adolescents: a prospective, open pilot
study. Journal of Clinical Psychiatry 2011; 72: 1263-1269.
Psychological interventions
Art therapy
Walsh SM. Future Images: An art intervention with suicidal
adolescents. Applied Nursing Research, 2003; 6(3):111-8.
Harnden B, Rosales AB, Greeneld B. Outpatient art therapy
with a suicidal adolescent female. Arts in Psychotherapy,
2004; 31(3):165-80.
Behaviour therapy / Behavioural activation
Jacob M, Keeley ML, Ritschel L, Craighead WE. Behavioural
activation for the treatment of low income, African American
adolescents with major depressive disorder: a case series.
Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy 2011: DOI: 10.1002/
cpp.774.
Ritschel LA, Ramirez CL, Jones M, Craighead WE. Behavioral
activation for depressed teens: a pilot study. Cognitive and
Behavioral Practice 2011; 18: 281-299.
Ruggiero K J, Morris TL, Hopko DR, et al. Application
of behavioral activation treatment for depression to
an adolescent with a history of child maltreatment.
Clinical Case Studies, 2007 6(1):64-78.
Shaw BF. Comparison of cognitive therapy and behavior
therapy in the treatment of depression. Journal of
Consulting & Clinical Psychology, 1977; 45(4):543-51.
Spielmans GI, Pasek LF, McFall JP. What are the active
ingredients in cognitive and behavioral psychotherapy for
anxious and depressed children? A meta-analytic review.
Clinical Psychology Review, 2007; 27(5):642-54.
Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT)
Butler AC, Chapman JE, Forman EM, Beck AT. The empirical
status of cognitive-behavioral therapy: A review of meta-
analyses. Clinical Psychology Review 2006; 26(1): 17-31.
Harrington R, Whittaker J, Shoebridge P, et al. Systematic
review of efcacy of cognitive behaviour therapies in childhood
and adolescent depressive disorder. British Medical Journal,
1998; 316(7144):1559-63.
Klein JB, Jacobs RH, Reinecke MA. Cognitive-Behavioral
Therapy for adolescent depression: a meta-analytic
investigation of changes in effect-size estimates. Journal of
the American Academy of Child Adolescent Psychiatry 2007;
46(11): 14031413.
Computer or internet treatments
(professionally guided)
Alvarez LM, Sotres JF, Leon SO, Estrella J, Sanchez Sosa JJ.
Computer program in the treatment for major depression and
cognitive impairment in university students. Computers in
Human Behavior 2008; 24: 816-826.
Abeles P, Verduyn C, Robinson A. Computerized CBT for
adolescent depression (Stressbusters) and its initial
evaluation through and extended case series. Behavioural and
Cognitive Psychotherapy 2009; 37: 151-165.
Creative play
Bolton P, Bass J, Betancourt T, et al. Interventions for
depression symptoms among adolescent survivors of
war and displacement in northern Uganda: a randomized
controlled trial. Journal of The American Medical Association,
2007;298:519-27.
Dance and movement therapy (DMT)
Jeong YJ, Hong SC, Lee MS, et al. Dance and movement
therapy improves emotional responses and modulates
neurohormones in adolescents with mild depression.
International Journal of Neuroscience, 2005; 115(12):1711-20
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing
(EMDR)
Bae H, Kim D, Park YC. Eye movement desensitization and
reprocessing for adolescent depression. Psychiatry Investigation
2008; 5: 60-65.
45
Family therapy
Diamond GS, Reis BF, Diamond GM, Siqueland L, Isaacs
L. Attachment-based family therapy for depressed
adolescents: a treatment development study. Journal of the
American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 2002;
41(10):1190-6.
Diamond GS, Wintersteen MB, Brown GK, Diamond GM, Gallop
R, Shelef K, Levy S. Attachment-based family therapy for
adolescents with suicidal ideation: a randomized controlled
trial. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent
Psychiatry, 2010; 49: 122-131.
Brent DA, Holder D, Kolko D, et al. A clinical psychotherapy
trial for adolescent depression comparing cognitive, family,
and supportive therapy. Archives of General Psychiatry, 1997;
54(9):877-85.
Birmaher B, Brent DA, Kolko D, et al. Clinical outcome
after short-term psychotherapy for adolescents with major
depressive disorder. Archives of General Psychiatry, 2000;
57(1):29-36.
Trowell J, Joffe I, Campbell J, et al. Childhood depression:
A place for psychotherapy - an outcome study comparing
individual psychodynamic psychotherapy and family therapy.
European Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2007; 16(3):157-67.
Hypnosis
German E. Hypnosis and CBT with depression and anxiety.
Australian Journal of Clinical Hypnotherapy and Hypnosis,
2003; 31(2):71-85.
Young, G. Hypnotically-facilitated eclectic psychotherapeutic
treatment of depression: A case study. Australian Journal of
Clinical Hypnotherapy and Hypnosis, 2006; 27(1):1-13.
Interpersonal therapy (IPT)
Mufson L, Weissman MM, Moreau D, Garnkel R. The efcacy
of interpersonal psychotherapy for depressed adolescents.
Archives of General Psychiatry 1999; 56: 573579.
Mufson L, Dorta KP, Wickramaratne P, Nomura Y, Olfson
M, Weissman MM. A randomized effectiveness trial of
interpersonal psychotherapy for depressed adolescents.
Archives of General Psychiatry 2004; 61(6): 577584.
Rossello J, Bernal G. The efcacy of cognitive behavioral
and interpersonal treatments for depression in Puerto Rican
adolescents. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology
1999; 6, 734745.
Problem solving therapy (PST)
Eskin M, Ertekin K, Demir H. Efcacy of a problem solving
therapy for depression and suicide potential in adolescents and
young adults. Cognitive Therapy Research, 2008; 32:9172-8.
Lerner MS, Clum GA. Treatment of suicidal ideators: a
problem-solving approach. Behaviour Therapy. 1990; 21:
403-411.
Rudd DM, Rajab H, Orman DT, Stulman DA, Joiner T, Dixon W.
Effectiveness of an outpatient intervention targeting suicidal
young adults: Preliminary results. Journal of Consulting and
Clinical Psychology 1996; 64(1): 179-190.
Psychodynamic psychotherapy
Horn, H, Geiser-Elze A, Reck C, Hartmannm M, Steni A, Victor
D, et al. Efcacy of short term psychotherapy for children and
adolescents with depression. Praxis der Kinderpsychologie und
Kinderpsychiatrie 2005; 54: 578597.
Lehto SM, Tolmunen T, Kuikka J, et al. Midbrain serotonin and
striatum dopamine transporter binding in double depression:
A one-year follow-up study. Neuroscience Letters, 2008;
441:291-5.
Target M, Fonagy P. The efcacy of psychoanalysis for children
with emotional disorders. Journal of the American Academy of
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 1994; 33: 36171.
Trowell J, Joffe I, Campbell J, et al. Childhood depression:
A place for psychotherapy - An outcome study comparing
individual psychodynamic psychotherapy and family therapy.
European Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2007; 16(3):157-67.
Psychoeducation
Sanford M, Boyle M, McClearly L, et al. A pilot study of
adjunctive family psychoeducation in adolescent major
depression: feasibility and treatment effect. Journal of the
American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2006;
45(4):386-95.
References (continued)
Social skills training
Fine S, Forth A, Gilbert M, Haley G. Group therapy for
adolescent depressive disorder: a comparison of social skills
and therapeutic support. Journal of the American Academy
of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 1991; 30(1):79-85.
Reed MK. Social skills training to reduce depression in
adolescents. Adolescence, 1994; 29(114):293-302.
Supportive therapy
Brent DA, Holder D, Kolko D, et al. A clinical psychotherapy
trial for adolescent depression comparing cognitive, family,
and supportive therapy. Archives of General Psychiatry, 1997;
54:877-85.
Fine S, Forth A, Gilbert M, Haley G. Group therapy for
adolescent depressive disorder: a comparison of social skills
and therapeutic support. Journal of the American Academy
of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 1991; 30(1):79-85.
Lerner MS, Clum GA. Treatment of suicidal ideators:
A problem-solving approach. Behaviour Therapy, 1990;
21:403-11.
Interventions that are not
routinely available
Ketamine
Zarate CA Jr, Singh JB, Carlson PJ, Brutsche NE, Ameli R,
Luckenbaugh DA, et al. A randomized trial of an N-methyl-D-
aspartate antagonist in treatment resistant major depression.
Archives of General Psychiatry 2006; 63: 856864.
46
Appendix
What about treatment approaches that are
not reviewed here, but where evidence exists
for adults? A summary of the evidence for
treatments in adults in general.
For full details of the following reviews, see Jorm AF, Allen NB,
Morgan AJ, Ryan S and Purcell R. A guide to what works for
depression (2nd Edition), beyondblue. Melbourne: 2013. This
booklet is available to download and order free from beyondblue
at www.beyondblue.org.au or call 1300 22 4636.
Complementary and
lifestyle interventions
5-hydroxy-
L-tryptophan
(5-HTP)
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
5-HTP is an amino acid. Amino
acids are building blocks of proteins.
5-HTP is produced in the body
from L-tryptophan and may also be
purchased as a dietary supplement.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether 5-HTP works.
Acupuncture
WHAT IS IT?
Acupuncture involves inserting ne
needles into specic points on the
body. The needles can be rotated
manually, or have an electric current
applied to them. A laser beam can also
be used instead of needles.
RECOMMENDATION
Good-quality studies of acupuncture
have found mixed results. There is not
enough high-quality evidence yet to
say that acupuncture is an effective
treatment for depression.
47
Aromatherapy
WHAT IS IT?
Aromatherapy is the use of essential
oils for healing. Essential oils are
highly concentrated extracts of plants.
They can be diluted in carrier oils and
absorbed through the skin, or heated
and vaporised into the air.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether aromatherapy works.
Autogenic training
WHAT IS IT?
Autogenic training involves practising
simple mental exercises in body
awareness. This includes concentration
on breathing, heartbeat, and warmth
and heaviness of body parts.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether autogenic training works.
Alcohol avoidance
WHAT IS IT?
Alcohol avoidance means reducing
or stopping drinking alcohol. Alcohol
is a typical depressant drug and
being drunk may cause temporary
depressive symptoms. Heavy drinking
can also cause unpleasant life events,
like job loss, which can lead to
depression. For these reasons, it may
be helpful to avoid drinking alcohol
when depressed.
RECOMMENDATION
Depression in people with a drinking
problem may be improved by not drinking
alcohol. There is not enough evidence to
say whether avoiding alcohol is helpful
for depression in people without an
alcohol problem.
IN PEOPLE WITH A
DRINKING PROBLEM
IN PEOPLE WITHOUT
A DRINKING PROBLEM
SUDDENLY STOPPING OR REDUCING
ALCOHOL USE AFTER HEAVY, LONG-
TERM USE CAN LEAD TO WITHDRAWAL
SYMPTOMS, WHICH CAN BE LIFE THREATENING.
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Ayurveda
WHAT IS IT?
Ayurveda is the traditional
healing system of India. Ayuveda
translates as knowledge of life.
It aims to improve health by
balancing the body, mind and
spirit using diet, herbs, spices,
meditation and exercise.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to say
whether or not Ayurveda works.
Evidence rating
Bach ower remedies
WHAT ARE THEY?
Bach (pronounced batch) ower
remedies are a system of highly
diluted ower extracts. A popular
combination of ve remedies is sold
as Rescue Remedy
.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether Bach ower remedies work.
Borage
WHAT IS IT?
Borage (Borago ofcinalis or
echium amoenum) is a herb
originating in Syria.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether borage works.
Caffeine consumption
or avoidance
WHAT IS IT?
Caffeine is a stimulant found in coffee,
tea, cola drinks and chocolate. Some
people believe that caffeine improves
mood and energy, while others say
that avoiding caffeine may be helpful
for depression.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no good evidence to say whether
caffeine consumption or avoidance is
helpful for depression.
CONSUMPTION
AVOIDANCE
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
48
Carbohydrate-rich
protein-poor meal
WHAT IS IT?
It has been proposed that a meal
rich in carbohydrates, but low in
protein lifts mood.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to say
whether eating carbohydrate-rich, but
protein-poor meals works for depression.
Dolphins
(swimming with)
WHAT IS IT?
It has been suggested that swimming
with dolphins may be helpful for
depression. Swimming with dolphins
is usually only available through a tour
operator in selected locations.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether swimming with
dolphins works.
Ginkgo biloba
WHAT IS IT?
Extracts from the leaves of the
ginkgo biloba (maidenhair) tree are
available in tablet form.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether ginkgo works.
Glutamine
WHAT IS IT?
Glutamine is an amino acid (one of
the building blocks of protein) and
is found in foods high in protein.
It is available as a supplement
from health food shops.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether glutamine works or not.
Chromium
WHAT IS IT?
Chromium is an essential trace
mineral involved in carbohydrate, fat
and protein metabolism. Chromium is
available in food or as a supplement.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether chromium works or not.
Carnitine /
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
WHAT IS IT?
Carnitine is a nutrient involved in
energy metabolism. It is produced
in the body and is available in food
such as meat and dairy products
or as a supplement. Acetyl-L-Carnitine
(ALC) is a form of carnitine that enters
the brain easily.
RECOMMENDATION
There is some evidence on ALC
to indicate that it may work
for dysthymia.
WHAT IS IT?
Craniosacral therapists apply gentle
pressure to the head and back to
improve the ow of spinal uid.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether craniosacral therapy works.
FOR DYSTHYMIA
FOR OTHER TYPES OF DEPRESSION Folate
WHAT IS IT?
Folate is a nutrient found in a variety
of foods or in dietary supplements,
usually as folic acid.
RECOMMENDATION
Folate may be helpful for depression
when taken with antidepressants.
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether folate works as a
treatment on its own.
AS AN ADDITION TO
ANTIDEPRESSANTS
AS A TREATMENT ON ITS OWN
Craniosacral therapy
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
49
Humour /
humour therapy
WHAT IS IT?
Humour could be used by people
to help improve their depression,
or as part of therapy provided by
a professional.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether using humour or humour
therapy works for depression.
Hydrotherapy
WHAT IS IT?
Hydrotherapy includes hot air
and steam baths or saunas, wet
packings, and various kinds of
warm and cold baths.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether hydrotherapy works
or not.
Inositol
WHAT IS IT?
Inositol is a compound similar to
glucose. The average adult consumes
about 1g daily through diet, but
supplements are also available at
health food shops.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether inositol works
for depression.
Homeopathy
WHAT IS IT?
Homeopathy uses very small doses
of various substances to stimulate
self-healing. Treatments are based
on peoples symptoms rather than
their diagnosis. This means that
two people with the same illness
may receive different treatments.
Treatments are prepared by diluting
substances with water or alcohol
and shaking. This process is then
repeated many times until there
is little or none of the substance
left. Homeopathic treatments are
available by visiting a practitioner or
buying over the counter.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to say
whether homeopathy works.
Lavender
WHAT IS IT?
Lavender is a plant that is popular in
herbal medicine. Essential oil extracts
are obtained from the owering tops.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether lavender works.
WHAT IS IT?
Kampo is Japanese herbal therapy.
It was developed from traditional
Chinese medicine. Kampo medicines
contain combinations of herbs,
fungi, minerals and insects.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether kampo works or not.
Kampo
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
50
Meditation
WHAT IS IT?
There are many different types of
meditation. However, they all train
people to focus their attention and
awareness. Some types involve
focusing attention on a silently
repeated word or on breathing. Others
involve observing thoughts without
judgment. Meditation can be done for
spiritual or religious reasons, but this
is not always the case.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether or not meditation works.
LeShan
distance healing
WHAT IS IT?
LeShan distance healing is a
meditation technique designed to
help the healing of another persons
medical problems. It can be done
either at a distance or in the presence
of the person being healed. It is a skill
that can be learned by people with no
experience in healing or meditation.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether LeShan distance
healing works or not.
WHAT IS IT?
Nature-assisted therapy is the use
of plants, natural materials, and the
outdoor environment to improve
health. Nature-assisted therapy
covers a variety of activities. These
include therapeutic horticulture
(gardening and plant-related
activities to improve wellbeing)
and wilderness or outdoor
adventure excursions.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether nature-assisted
therapy works.
Omega-3 fatty acids
(sh oil)
WHAT ARE THEY?
Omega-3 fatty acids are types
of polyunsaturated fats. The two
main types are eicosapentanoic acid
( EPA) and docosahexanoic acid ( DHA).
EPA and DHA are found in sh oil
or can be made in the body from
the oil found in foods like axseed,
walnuts and canola oil. There is some
research linking lack of Omega-3 in
the diet to depression.
Countries where a lot of sh is eaten
tend to have lower rates of depression.
As Omega-3 consumption has
reduced in the typical diet in Western
countries, rates of depression have
also increased.
Lower concentrations of Omega-3
have been found in the blood of
depressed people.
Omega-3 supplements containing EPA
and DHA are available from health
food shops and pharmacies.
RECOMMENDATION
Omega-3 supplements may work if
they contain mainly EPA rather than
DHA. However, more research is
needed to be sure.
CONTAINS
MAINLY EPA
CONTAINS
MAINLY DHA
WHAT IS IT?
Marijuana is a mixture of dried
shredded leaves, stems, seeds and
owers of the hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa). Cannabis refers to marijuana
and other preparations made from
the same plant, such as hashish.
The active ingredient in marijuana
is the chemical THC.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no evidence that marijuana
helps depression. Heavy use can
increase the risk of developing
more serious mental illnesses.
Marijuana
USING MARIJUANA HEAVILY CAN
INCREASE RISK OF PSYCHOSIS
(I.E. LOSING CONTACT WITH
REALITY).
Nature-assisted
therapy
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
51
Prayer
WHAT IS IT?
Prayer is a means by which believers
attempt to communicate with the
higher being. Prayer has traditionally
been used in times of illness and
is often used by people to help
cope with mental health problems.
People can pray for themselves or
to ask for healing for another person.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough evidence to
say whether or not prayer works for
depression.
Qigong
WHAT IS IT?
Qigong is a 3,000-year-old
Chinese self-training method involving
meditation, breathing exercises and
body movements.
RECOMMENDATION
There is some preliminary evidence
that qigong might help depression in
older people. However, more evidence
is needed to conrm this. There is no
evidence on whether or not it works
with other age groups.
Pets
WHAT ARE THEY?
Many people report positive effects of
interacting with their pets. Pets can
also be used by professional therapists
as part of their treatment.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether interacting with pets
works.
Phenylalanine
WHAT IS IT?
Phenylalanine is an amino acid.
Amino acids are the building blocks
of protein. It cannot be made in the
body and must be included in the diet.
Supplements are available through
health food shops.
RECOMMENDATION
It is unclear whether phenylalanine
works for depression. Better scientic
evidence is needed.
Recreational dancing
WHAT IS IT?
Dancing of any type can
be used to improve mood.
RECOMMENDATION
More evidence is needed to know
whether dancing helps depression.
Painkillers
WHAT ARE THEY?
Painkillers are sold over-the-
counter for the temporary relief
of pain. They include aspirin,
paracetamol and ibuprofen.
Some people use these painkillers
to help with depression.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no good evidence on whether
painkillers help depression.
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
52
Evidence rating
Sleep
deprivation
FOR SHORT-
TERM MOOD
IMPROVEMENT
AS A LONG-TERM TREATMENT
FOR DEPRESSION
PEOPLE WITH A HISTORY OF
EPILEPSY SHOULD NOT USE SLEEP
DEPRIVATION, BECAUSE IT CAN LEAD
TO A SEIZURE. IN PEOPLE WITH BIPOLAR
DISORDER, IT MAY ALSO LEAD TO MANIA.
WHAT IS IT?
Sleep deprivation can be either
total or partial:
s Total sleep deprivation involves
staying awake for one whole
night and the following day,
without napping.
s Partial sleep deprivation involves
sleeping during either the early
or later part of the night, and
staying awake for the other part.
RECOMMENDATION
Sleep deprivation produces rapid
improvement in many people. However,
the effect generally does not last.
Rhodiola rosea
(Golden root)
WHAT IS IT?
Rhodiola rosea is a plant that grows
in cold regions of the world, such
as the Arctic and high mountains.
In some parts of the world, it has
been used as a traditional remedy
to cope with stress. Extracts of the
plant have been marketed under
the brand Arctic root.
RECOMMENDATION
While the initial evidence looks
promising, more studies are
needed to conrm that it works.
Reiki
WHAT IS IT?
Reiki (pronounced ray-key) is a
form of energy healing that started in
Japan. A session of reiki involves a
practitioner lightly laying his/her hands
or placing them a few centimetres
away from parts of the persons body
for three to ve minutes per position.
Distance reiki, where the practitioner
can work without being physically
present with the recipient, is available
with further training.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether reiki works.
WHAT IS IT?
Schisandra (Schisandra chinensis)
is a berry originating in Siberia and
China. A tincture (liquid extract) is
made from the dried seeds.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence to
say whether schisandra works.
Saffron
WHAT IS IT?
Saffron is the worlds most expensive
spice, made from the stigma of the
ower of the plant Crocus sativus.
Saffron is used to treat depression
in Persian traditional medicine.
Both the stigma and the petal
(which is much cheaper) have been
used for the treatment of depression.
RECOMMENDATION
Saffron appears to work, but
more needs to be known about
the doses required.
Selenium
WHAT IS IT?
Selenium is a mineral naturally
present in the diet. Whole grains and
meats are a particularly good source.
Selenium is also available as a
supplement.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no good evidence on whether
selenium supplements work.
SELENIUM CAN BE TOXIC IN
HIGH DOSES.
Schisandra
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
53
Tai chi
WHAT IS IT?
Tai chi is a type of moving
meditation that originated in
China as a martial art. It involves
slow purposeful movements and
focused breathing and attention.
RECOMMENDATION
Although there is some promising
evidence, more research is needed
to say whether or not Tai chi works.
Sugar avoidance
WHAT IS IT?
Eating rened sugar can provide a
temporary increase in energy level and
an improvement in mood. However,
the longer-term effect is a decline
in energy.
RECOMMENDATION
While there is some promising
evidence that sugar avoidance
might help a minority of depressed
people, further research is needed
to conrm that this treatment works.
Smoking cigarettes
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
People who are depressed are
more likely to smoke cigarettes.
One explanation for this is that
they smoke to relieve symptoms
of depression.
RECOMMENDATION
Smoking may improve depressive
symptoms in the short term. However,
in the long term, it increases risk of a
range of physical diseases that can in
turn lead to depression.
Tyrosine
WHAT IS IT?
Tyrosine is an amino acid, one of
the building blocks of protein. It is
found in food, but can also be
taken as a supplement.
RECOMMENDATION
Tyrosine is not effective as a treatment
for depression.
FREE AND EASY
WANDERER PLUS
OTHER CHINESE HERBAL MEDICINES
CHINESE HERBS MAY INTERACT
WITH WESTERN MEDICINES, SUCH AS
WARFARIN, AND SOME SHOULD NOT
BE USED DURING PREGNANCY. SOME CHINESE
HERBS MAY BE TOXIC.
WHAT IS IT?
Chinese herbal medicine uses
combinations of herbs, minerals
and animal products to treat
disease. Combinations of herbs
are usually tailored to individuals
but there are some common
herbs and combinations used to
treat depression. Two of these
are Free and Easy Wanderer Plus
and Chaihu-Shugan-San. The
Chinese Medicine Board of Australia
regulates all Australian Chinese
medicine practitioners.
RECOMMENDATION
There is promising evidence for
Free and Easy Wanderer Plus. More
high-quality studies are needed to
conrm its effectiveness when used
in Australia. There is not enough good
evidence to say whether other Chinese
medicines work.
SMOKING IS A MAJOR RISK
FACTOR FOR A RANGE OF
CHRONIC PHYSICAL DISEASES,
INCLUDING STROKE, HEART DISEASE AND
CANCER. THESE PHYSICAL DISEASES IN
TURN INCREASE THE RISK FOR DEPRESSION.
Traditional Chinese
herbal medicine
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
54
Vitamin B
6
WHAT IS IT?
Vitamin B
6
plays an important role
in many processes in the body,
including the brain. This vitamin is
widely available in food, but can also
be taken as supplements.
RECOMMENDATION
Vitamin B
6
does not appear to work
for depression in general. However,
there is some promising evidence that
it might help women whose depression
is hormone related.
WHAT IS IT?
Young tissue extract ( YTE) is
extracted from fertilized, partially
incubated hen eggs. It is formed into
a powder and sold as a supplement.
RECOMMENDATION
There is not enough good evidence
to say whether young tissue extract
works.
Yoga
WHAT IS IT?
Yoga is an ancient part of Indian
culture. Most yoga practised in
Western countries is Hatha yoga.
This type of yoga exercises the body
and mind using physical postures,
breathing techniques and meditation.
RECOMMENDATION
Yoga is a promising treatment for
depression, but more good-quality
research is needed.
Zinc
WHAT IS IT?
Zinc is a mineral essential for life
which is found in many foods. It can
also be taken as a supplement.
RECOMMENDATION
Zinc appears to work when taken with
an antidepressant, but more good
quality research is needed. There is no
evidence that it is helpful on its own.
TAKEN ALONE
IN COMBINATION WITH
AN ANTIDEPRESSANT
TAKING ZINC AT HIGHER THAN
RECOMMENDED DOSE (40mg A DAY
FOR ADULTS) CAN BE TOXIC.
VERY HIGH DOSES (ABOVE 100mg
PER DAY) OF VITAMIN B
6
CAN
PRODUCE PAINFUL NERVE DAMAGE.
Vitamin B
12
WHAT IS IT?
Vitamin B
12
is important to the
working of many processes in the
body, including the brain. It can
be found in meat, milk and eggs.
Supplements are also available.
RECOMMENDATION
The limited evidence available does
not show an effect of vitamin B
12
supplements on winter depression.
There is no evidence on whether they
work for other types of depression.
HIGH DOSES OF VITAMIN B
12
CAN
HAVE SIDE-EFFECTS, INCLUDING
SKIN PROBLEMS AND DIARRHOEA.
Vitamin D
WHAT IS IT?
Vitamin D is essential to certain body
functions, particularly the growth and
maintenance of bones. Few foods
contain vitamin D. It is mainly made
in the body by the action of sunlight
on skin. It is also possible to buy
vitamin D supplements. Vitamin D
has been used as a treatment for
winter depression.
RECOMMENDATION
The evidence is promising that vitamin
D may help winter depression, but
more research is needed. There is no
evidence that vitamin D helps other
types of depression.
LARGE DOSES OF VITAMIN D CAN
BE TOXIC AND LEAD TO IMPAIRED
KIDNEY FUNCTIONING.
Young tissue extract
Evidence rating Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
Evidence rating
55
Medical interventions
Evidence rating
Anti-anxiety drugs
WHAT ARE THEY?
Anti-anxiety drugs are used
for severe anxiety. They may
also be known as tranquilisers.
Because depression and anxiety
often occur together, anti-anxiety
drugs may also be used to treat
depression. These drugs are usually
used together with antidepressants,
rather than on their own.
RECOMMENDATION
There is some evidence for using
anti-anxiety drugs as a short-term
treatment for depression, but not all
drugs are effective. Combining an
anti-anxiety drug with an antidepressant
may also be helpful, but only in the short
term. Anti-anxiety drugs should only be
used for a short time because
of the potential side-effects and risk
of addiction.
LONG-TERM USE OF ANTI-
ANXIETY DRUGS CAN CAUSE
DEPENDENCE OR ADDICTION.
COMMON SIDE-EFFECTS OF THESE
DRUGS CAN INCLUDE SLEEPINESS,
DIZZINESS, HEADACHE, AND IN SOME
CASES, MEMORY LOSS.
Oestrogen
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Oestrogen is a hormone that
occurs naturally in a womans
body. When used as a treatment,
it is usually supplied as a tablet. It is
also available in a skin patch, as a
cream or gel, or injected or implanted
just under the skin. Oestrogen is
prescribed by a doctor.
RECOMMENDATION
More research is needed to work
out whether oestrogen is an
effective treatment for women with
severe postnatal depression. Given
its side-effects, oestrogen is not
recommended as a main treatment for
postnatal depression.
OESTROGEN MAY INCREASE THE
RISK OF CANCER OF THE UTERUS
AND BREAST CANCER, AS WELL
AS BLOOD CLOTS IN THE VEINS. IT CAN
ALSO CAUSE A NUMBER OF OTHER
PROBLEMS SUCH AS TENDER BREASTS
AND VAGINAL BLEEDING.
Anti-glucocorticoid
(AGC) drugs
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
AGCs are drugs that reduce the
bodys production of cortisol (the
stress hormone). AGCs are prescribed
by a doctor.
RECOMMENDATION
There is some evidence that AGCs may
be helpful in the short term for people
with depression. However more research
is needed before the specic benet of
AGCs alone can be known.
AGCs CAN CAUSE A NUMBER OF
SIDE-EFFECTS, INCLUDING RASH,
FATIGUE, CONSTIPATION, APPETITE
CHANGES AND SLEEP PROBLEMS.
Stimulant drugs
Evidence rating
WHAT ARE THEY?
Stimulants help improve alertness
and energy levels. These drugs are
not used as a regular treatment for
depression, but may be used to treat
certain symptoms of depression, such
as fatigue or lack of energy. Only a
doctor can prescribe these drugs.
RECOMMENDATION
Stimulants may help to reduce
certain symptoms of depression
in the short term. However, there
is no evidence of their longer-term
benets in treating depression.
SIDE-EFFECTS MIGHT INCLUDE
HEADACHE, DIFFICULTY SLEEPING,
A LACK OF APPETITE AND NAUSEA.
SOME STIMULANTS CAN ALSO BE HIGHLY
ADDICTIVE, SO THERE ARE RISKS OF
ABUSE OR DEPENDENCE IN SOME PEOPLE.
56
Evidence rating
SIDE-EFFECTS CAN INCLUDE ACNE
AND OILY SKIN. THERE ARE ALSO
GENDER SPECIFIC SIDE-EFFECTS
OF TESTOSTERONE. USE OF TESTOSTERONE
THERAPY HAS ALSO BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH AN
INCREASED RISK OF SOME FORMS OF CANCER.
WHAT IS IT?
Testosterone is a naturally occurring
hormone found in both males
and females, although levels of
testosterone are much higher in
males. In males, it is the main sex
hormone and is involved in sex drive
(or libido) as well as muscle growth,
strength, energy and stamina.
When used to treat depression,
testosterone replacement therapy
can be provided as a patch that is
worn on the skin, in tablet form or
via injection. To be used properly
and safely, testosterone treatments
should be prescribed by a doctor.
RECOMMENDATION
Testosterone may be helpful to men
with low levels of this hormone, but
more evidence is needed to support
this nding. It does not appear to be
effective for men with normal levels of
testosterone who are depressed. There
is no good-quality research on the
effects of testosterone for women.
Vagus nerve
stimulation (VNS)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
VNS is a type of brain stimulation.
It requires surgery to insert a device
(like a pacemaker) and wiring under
the skin in the chest and neck. This
sends electric signals to the vagus
nerve, which is connected to the
brain. VNS is mainly used for people
with long-term, severe depression.
RECOMMENDATION
On the evidence available, VNS does
not appear to work, and given the
risks and side-effects, it is not a
recommended treatment.
VNS REQUIRES SURGERY TO
IMPLANT A DEVICE, SO IT IS A
HIGHLY INVASIVE PROCEDURE.
VOICE CHANGES ARE COMMON AND NECK
PAIN CAN ALSO OCCUR.
Testosterone
57
Psychological interventions
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
MBCT is used to prevent the return
or relapse of depression in people
who have recovered. It is generally
delivered in groups. It involves
learning a type of meditation called
mindfulness meditation. This type
of meditation teaches people to
focus on the present moment,
just noticing whatever they are
experiencing, including pleasant
and unpleasant experiences,
without trying to change them.
RECOMMENDATION
MBCT appears to be effective at
preventing the return of depression
in people who have been depressed
a number of times before. It is unclear
whether it helps people who are
currently depressed.
Mindfulness based
cognitive therapy
(MBCT)
Acceptance and
commitment therapy
(ACT)
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
(ACT) is a type of Cognitive Behaviour
Therapy (CBT). However, it is different
to CBT because it does not teach a
person how to change their thinking
and behaviour. Rather, it teaches
them to just notice and accept their
thoughts and feelings, especially
unpleasant ones that they might
normally avoid.
RECOMMENDATION
ACT is a promising new approach to
psychological therapy for people who
are depressed. Although more work is
needed, it might be worth trying for
those who have not found more
established treatments (like CBT, IPT
or antidepressants) to be helpful.
Animal assisted
therapy
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Animal assisted therapy is a group of
treatments where animals are used by
a trained mental health professional
in the therapy. Usually these are pets
such as dogs and cats, but other
animals like horses are also used. The
interaction between the client and the
animal is a focus of the treatment,
and is thought to have benets for the
persons mood and well-being.
RECOMMENDATION
Animal assisted therapy appears to work
for depression. However, some larger
studies should be done so we
can be more condent of this.
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Narrative therapy is an approach
to psychological therapy that
focuses on how people think about
themselves and their life situations
in terms of narratives, or stories.
People come for psychological
therapy either alone, with their
partner, or with their families.
RECOMMENDATION
We do not yet know if narrative
therapy is an effective treatment
for depression.
Narrative therapy
58
Evidence rating Evidence rating
FOR OLDER PEOPLE
FOR OTHER AGE
GROUPS
WHAT IS IT?
NLP was developed in the 1970s
based on observing people who
were thought to be expert therapists.
NLP assumes that if we can
understand the way these experts
use language when they are
counselling people, then others can
be effective therapists by using
language in a similar way.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no convincing scientic
evidence that NLP is effective
for depression.
WHAT IS IT?
Reminiscence therapy has been
mainly used with older people
with depression. It encourages
people to remember and review
memories of past events in their
lives. Reminiscence therapy can be
used in groups where people are
encouraged to share memories with
others. It can also be used in a more
structured way, sometimes called
life review. This involves focusing
on resolving conicts and regrets
linked with past experiences. The
person can take a new perspective
or use strategies to cope with
thoughts about these events.
RECOMMENDATION
Reminiscence therapy appears to
be an effective approach to treating
depression in older people.
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Relationship therapy focuses on
helping a person who is depressed
by improving their relationship with
their partner. Both members of
the couple come for a series over
a period of eight to 24 weeks. A
person does not have to be married
to use this approach, but needs to
be in a long-term relationship.
RECOMMENDATION
Relationship therapy is an effective
treatment for depression, which
is probably best used when there
are relationship problems along
with depression.
Relationship therapy
Neurolinguistic
programming (NLP)
Reminiscence therapy
59
Melatonin
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
Melatonin is a hormone produced
in the brain. It is involved in the
bodys sleep-wake cycle. Melatonin
levels increase during night-time
darkness. Melatonin supplements
are not available in Australia, but
can be brought in from overseas for
personal use.
RECOMMENDATION
On current evidence, melatonin does
not seem to help. Given that it might
increase depression in high doses, it is
not recommended.
Negative air ionisation
Evidence rating
WHAT IS IT?
A negative air ioniser is a device
that uses high voltage to electrically
charge air particles. Breathing these
negatively-charged particles is
thought to improve depression.
RECOMMENDATION
Negative air ionisation appears to work,
including for seasonal depression.
However, the air ioniser needs to be
of the right type.
Interventions that are not
routinely available
60
Hope. Recovery. Resilience. Find out more at www.beyondblue.org.au
Beyond Blue Ltd. BL/0790 5/13
Where to nd more information
Youthbeyondblue
1300 22 4636
www.youthbeyondblue.com
Information on depression and anxiety, and how to help a friend for
young people aged 12 to 25.
Lifeline
www.lifeline.org.au
13 11 14
Access to crisis support, suicide prevention and mental health
support services.
mindhealthconnect
www.mindhealthconnect.org.au
Access to trusted, relevant mental health care services, online programs
and resources.
facebook.com/beyondblue
twitter.com/beyondblue
Related Interests
Major Depressive Disorder
Randomized Controlled Trial
Psychotherapy
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Mental Health
Documents Similar To Beyond Blue - A Guide to What Works for Depression in Young People
acu 2012 0900
Uploaded by
api-306854217
Haddock Et Al-2017-Journal of Marital and Family Therapy
Uploaded by
Eduardo Farfan
The relationship between stress and infertility.pdf
Uploaded by
hari
Short-time Intensive Psychodynamic Group Therapy Versus Cognitive-behavioral Group Therapy in Day Treatment
Uploaded by
Ryan Oneal
A Study to Evaluate the Incidence of Occult2
Uploaded by
mkc71
cat_jurnalNC anshor.ppt
Uploaded by
Hendi Anshori
7 Depression
Uploaded by
Anonymous 4txA8N8et
workshopuri sibiu
Uploaded by
Dyana Anghel
ASPEN Critical Care- Susan Brantley
Uploaded by
Vitoria Silva
35201
Uploaded by
Bitu Jaa
192.1-casemanagement
Uploaded by
Praveen S Munoli
group depression project
Uploaded by
api-260857427
FASJ - 2017 - Valisena - TX of Mortons Neuroma - Systematic Review
Uploaded by
Jacob Dougherty
Labette Center for Mental Health Services 4th Quarter 2013 Community Newsletter
Uploaded by
Monica Simpson
Views on Suicide.docx
Uploaded by
illyzl
Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Berbari e26 46
Uploaded by
Hataitap Chonchep
cognitive-behavioural-therapy-for-people-with-id-who-are-victims-of-crime-
Uploaded by
Liamariasabau
More From librarycv
Ageing and Cultural Diversity Strategy
Uploaded by
librarycv
2013 Victorian Public Healthcare Awards Showcase
Uploaded by
librarycv
2013 Law Help Directory
Uploaded by
librarycv
Disability 2011 12: Comparing performance across Australia
Uploaded by
librarycv
Healthcare 2011-12: Comparing performance across Australia
Uploaded by
librarycv
Disability Services - Guidelines for Setting and Collection of Residential Changes - Community Service Organisations
Uploaded by
librarycv
The Lulus Model: A peer support pilot program for young carers
Uploaded by
librarycv
Carers Recognition Act 2012
Uploaded by
librarycv
Vocational Education and Training (VET) and Young Victorians - A Way Forward
Uploaded by
librarycv
An Investment not an Expense.pdf
Uploaded by
librarycv
Service Sector Reform Reflections on the Consultations May 2013
Uploaded by
librarycv
Victorian Homelessness Action Plan
Uploaded by
librarycv
Victorias Vulnerable Children Strategy
Uploaded by
librarycv
Towards a more effective and sustainable community services system: A discussion paper
Uploaded by
librarycv
Service Sector Reform:A roadmap for community and human services reform
Uploaded by
librarycv
Service Sector Reform:A roadmap for community and human services reform
Uploaded by
librarycv
Giving and Receiving Care - Aboriginal Experiences of Care-giving in the Context of Mental Illness
Uploaded by
librarycv
Popular in Bipolar Disorder
PSYCHOLOGICAL DISORDERS.ppt
Uploaded by
alice
Blueprints Psychiatry 5th Ed 2008
Uploaded by
Dimitris Agis Markopoulos
Pryor u07a1 Therapeutic Approach
Uploaded by
Christine Pryor
Psych Nursing Syllabus (1st-2nd Sem)
Uploaded by
Harley Justiniani Dela Cruz
Reproductive Decisions
Uploaded by
paulioasis
Quetiapine
Uploaded by
Majid Kifayat
Mental Health Power Point Project
Uploaded by
cphilipfirst_7460287
Kaplan Translate
Uploaded by
sarahgayo
Janicak - Principles and Practice of Psychopharmacotherapy 3
Uploaded by
Zarni Htun
Can You Get Free Treatment For Bipolar Disorder?
Uploaded by
lawrence3barker79
Bipolar Affective Disorder
Uploaded by
napper67
Psychiatric Nursing Slides Doc
Uploaded by
Hazel Rose
Schizophrenia Paragraph
Uploaded by
carlos
Phases of Bipolar Disorder
Uploaded by
Chelsie Ann Cha
Antidepressants
Uploaded by
Stroe Georgiana
personalidad limitrofe
Uploaded by
Elsa Cristina Gonzlez
essay3 2
Uploaded by
api-357239467
Depression Learning Path
Uploaded by
abhishek kumar
1
Uploaded by
rizkiauliahbakri
Nursing Bullets- Psychiatric Nursing
Uploaded by
Dr. Jayesh Patidar
Depression_ a Very Short Introd - Mary Jane Tacchi
Uploaded by
Soul Seeker
Mandalas and Wellness Wheels
Uploaded by
nusko
Starson Handout
Uploaded by
Paul Raymont
annotated bibliography 1
Uploaded by
api-400010277
Aurorix PI Version6 27Jan2015
Uploaded by
Natasa Ralic
53 Scientific Foundations of Cognitive Theory and Therapy of Depression
Uploaded by
Melina Villalonga
2013 cjon writing mentor article-oncology clinical challenges
Uploaded by
api-227649807
mentalhealthstigma
Uploaded by
api-254655325
MINI Plus 5[1].0.0 v 1.1.05 new
Uploaded by
Francis Sarimiye
case study for mental health
Uploaded by
api-368267454
Footer Menu
Back To Top
About
About Scribd
Press
Our blog
Join our team!
Contact Us
Join today
Invite Friends
Gifts
Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices
Publishers
Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
Social Media
Copyright  2019 Scribd Inc.
Browse Books
Site Directory
Site Language:
EnglishChange Language