Why Do My Joints Hurt? Causes of Joint Pain & Pain Relief Options
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Joint Pain Home
Medical Reference
Features
Video
Slideshows & Images
Quizzes
Health Tools
Symptom Checker
More From WebMD
News Archive
Pain Topics
Abdominal Pain
Arthritis
Back Pain
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Fibromyalgia
Hip Pain
Knee Pain
Foot Pain
Lupus
Migraine
Nerve Pain
Osteoarthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Pain Management Guide
Types of Pain
Symptoms & Causes
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Support & Resources
More Pain Resources
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Neurologist
Find an Orthopaedist
Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Drug Interactions
Pain Management
Guide
Joint Pain
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Medications
Topical Agents
Injections
Physical Therapy
Home Care
Alternative Treatments
Joints form the connections between bones. They provide support and help you move. Any damage to the joints from disease or injury can interfere with your movement and cause a lot of pain.
Many different conditions can lead to painful joints, including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, bursitis, gout, strains, sprains, and other injuries. Joint pain is extremely common. In one national survey, about one-third of adults reported having joint pain within the past 30 days. Knee pain was the most common complaint, followed by shoulder and hip pain, but joint pain can affect any part of your body, from your ankles and feet to your shoulders and hands. As you get older, painful joints become increasingly more common.
Joint pain can range from mildly irritating to debilitating. It may go away after a few weeks (acute), or last for several weeks or months (chronic). Even short-term pain and swelling in the joints can affect your quality of life. Whatever the cause of joint pain, you can usually manage it with medication, physical therapy, or alternative treatments.
Your doctor will first try to diagnose and treat the condition that is causing your joint pain. The goal is to reduce pain and inflammation, and preserve joint function. Treatment options include:
Medications
For moderate-to-severe joint pain with swelling, an over-the-counter or prescription nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen sodium (Aleve), can provide relief. A newer generation of NSAIDs known as Cox-2 inhibitors (celcoxib) is also good for pain relief, but all except one of these drugs (Celebrex) have been removed from the market because of an increased risk of heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular events. NSAIDs also can have side effects, potentially increasing your risk for gastrointestinal bleeding.
If you have milder pain without any swelling, acetaminophen (Tylenol) can be effective. Be careful when taking this medicine though, especially if you drink alcohol, because high doses may cause liver damage. Because of the risks, you should take any of these pain medications with caution.
If your pain is so severe that NSAIDs and Cox-2 medicines aren't effective enough, your doctor may prescribe a stronger opioid medication. Because opioid drugs can cause drowsiness, you should only use them under a doctor's care. They also can cause constipation, which you can relieve by taking laxatives.
Other drugs that may help relieve pain include:
Muscle relaxants to treat muscle spasms (may be used together with NSAIDs to increase the effect)
Some antidepressants and antiepileptic drugs (which both interfere with pain signals)
Continued
Topical Agents
Capsaicin --- a substance found in chili peppers -- may relieve joint pain from arthritis and other conditions. Capsaicin blocks substance P, which helps transmit pain signals, and it triggers the release of chemicals in the body called endorphins, which block pain. Side effects of capsaicin cream include burning or stinging in the area where it is applied. Another topical option is an arthritis cream containing the ingredient, methyl salicylate (Ben Gay).
Injections
For people who don't find joint pain relief from oral or topical medications, the doctor can inject a steroid medication (which may be combined with a local anesthetic) directly into the joint every three months to four months. Steroid injections are most commonly used in patients with arthritis, joint disease, or tendinitis. The procedure is effective, but in most situations the effect be temporary. It can also have side effects; if steroid injections mask an injury, you could overuse the joint and damage it even further.
Other injection options include:
Removing fluid from the joint (and is often done in connection with a steroid injection)
Injections of hyaluronan, a synthetic version of the natural joint fluid. This is used to treat osteoarthritis
Physical Therapy
You can work with a physical therapist to strengthen the muscles around the joint, stabilize the joint, and improve your range of motion. The therapist will use techniques such as ultrasound, heat or cold therapy, electrical nerve stimulation, and manipulation.
If you are overweight, losing weight can relieve some of the pressure on your painful joints. Exercise is one effective way to lose weight (along with diet), but be careful to stick with low-impact exercises that won't further irritate the joint. Swimming and bicycling are among the best exercises because both allow you to exercise your joints without putting impact on them. Because water is buoyant, swimming also relieves some of the pressure on your joints.
Home Care
You can relieve short-term joint pain with a few simple techniques at home. One method is known by the acronym, PRICE:
Protect the joint with a brace or wrap.
Rest the joint, avoiding any activities that cause you pain.
Ice the joint for about 15 minutes, several times each day.
Compress the joint using an elastic wrap.
Elevate the joint above the level of your heart.
Applying ice to your painful joints can relieve the pain and inflammation. For muscle spasms around joints, try using a heating pad or wrap several times a day. Your doctor may recommend that you tape or splint the joint to minimize movement or reduce pain, but avoid keeping the joint still for too long because it can eventually become stiff and lose function.
Continued
Alternative Treatments
Some research has indicated that glucosamine and chondroitin supplements can help with joint pain and improve function. Both of these substances are components of normal cartilage, which helps cushion the bones and protect joints. Glucosamine and chondroitin supplements are available in capsule, tablet, powder, or liquid form. Although these supplements don't work for everyone, they are safe to try because they don't have any significant side effects.
No matter what treatment your doctor recommends, get medical help right away if the pain gets intense, your joint suddenly becomes inflamed or deformed, or you can no longer use the joint at all.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on January 12, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
CDC: "QuickStats: Percentage of Adults Reporting Joint Pain or Stiffness - National Health Interview Survey, United States, 2006."
Collyott, C.L. Orthopaedic Nursing, 2008.
Palmer T. The Journal of the American Board of Family Practice, 2004.
Vangsness, C.T. Jr. Arthroscopy, 2009.
WebMD Health News: "FDA Approves Cymbalta for Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain."
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
Central Pain Syndrome
Pain Management Guide
Types of Pain
Symptoms & Causes
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Support & Resources
Top Picks
Muscle Spasms & Multiple Sclerosis
Manage Your Migraine
RA Pain Relief Tips
Treating and Preventing Migraines
When Pain Affects Your Relationship
Knee Arthritis: Treatment Advances
further reading
Slideshow: Tips to Keep Joints Healthy
Slideshow: Care for Bumps, Bruises, Sprains, and Strains
Quiz: Bone Up on Your Joints
Keep Your Joints Healthy Every Day
Joint Pain, Aging, and Arthritis - Understand Your Pain
The Basics of Dislocation
Dislocation Symptoms
Joint Pain Topics
Today on WebMD
Why You’re In Pain
Top causes and how to find relief.
Get Moving
8 exercises for less knee pain.
Acupuncture Guide
How it helps arthritis, migraines, and dental pain.
Truth About Painkillers
How much do you know about your meds?
Recommended for You
Slideshow
3 Symptoms of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Slideshow
What's Causing Your Low Back Pain?
Article
Antidepressants for Pain?
Slideshow
10 Foods That Fight Pain
Slideshow
Alternative Treatments for Long-Term Pain
Slideshow
Should You Use a Brace?
Slideshow
Tips for Common Aches and Pains
Video
NSAIDs: What They Are & How They Work
Tools & Resources
Chronic Pain Solutions
Personalized Tips for Managing Migraine
Video: How to Do Tennis Elbow Exercises
14 Tips to Relieve Back Pain
Quiz: Everyday Aches and Pains
Video: 5 Natural Ways to Ease Back Pain
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.