Common Mistakes to Avoid When You Have a Burn- khoobsurati
Search
Skin Care
Dry Skin
Oily Skin
Combination Skin
Normal Skin
Skin Whitening
Anti Ageing
Complexion Care
Scars & Care
Skin Infections & Care
Burns & Care
Skincare Tips
Makeup
Wedding Hots
Bride Corner
Nail Art
Lip Makeup
Face Makeup
Eye Makeup
Fragrances
Body Style
Makeup Tips
Hair
Hair Styling
Hair Remedies
Daily Hair Care
Do’s & Dont’s
Dandruff / Oily Scalp Cure
Dull & Thin Hair
Hair Restoration
Home Remedies
Weight Loss
Skin
Blemishes & Spots
Dark Circles
Dandruff Cure
Complexion Care
Blemishes & Spots
Acne and Pimples
Scars & Marks
Health
Entertainment
Celeb Talk
Hots
Movies Music Masti
Celeb Style
Spooks
Celeb Career Path
Occasion
Fashion
Health & Fitness
Fitness
Weight Management
Pregnancy
Stress Management
Yoga
Diet and Nutrition
Conditions and Treatments
General Health
Mehandi
Bridal Mehendi
Mehendi Designs
Tattoo Designs
Videos
Weddings
Event Plannings
Women’s Kitty
Honeymoon Tips
Relationship Mantra
Recipe
Issues
Empowering
Ask Me!
Know More
Humor
Travel
You are at:Home»Health»General Health»7 Mistakes to Avoid When You Have a Burn
ADVERTISEMENT
7 Mistakes to Avoid When You Have a Burn
Accidental burns are very common around the house. And it takes only a few moments to give you a painful burn. But, you can effectively treat them with proper treatment and medication. Still, there are many people who prefer to treat burns at home and while doing that they perform some mistakes that affect their wound badly. So, here we have shared some mistakes to avoid when you have a burn.
1. Applying ice
Image Source: katalogmarzen
This is the common mistake that most of us make. But, it is suggested that you should never apply ice over the burnt skin as it will only damage your tissues. Always apply cool water instead of ice cold water.
2. Not soaking your hand in cool water
Image Source: healthyzindagi
This is the first treatment to treat burnt hands. Just place your hands under the running water. Still, there are many people who place their hands under water for few minutes and then, take it out. But, according to the doctors, it is suggested that you should keep the burnt area under water for at least 15 minutes or till the pain subsides.
3. Not consulting the doctor
Image Source: wordpress
It is easy to treat burns with simple home remedies. But, certain burns especially the one which is larger than 3 centimeters on the delicate areas like the face and joints, requires immediate medical attention.
4. Putting butter and oil over the burn
Image Source: essentialoilenvy
Various home remedies suggest applying butter and oil over the burnt area but, these are the worst remedy to treat burns because the grease traps the heat in your skin which makes the healing process long and painful.
5. Bursting blister
Image Source: ltkcdn
Burns generally lead to blister which most of us try to burst. But, it is suggested that you should never do that as it can cause infection. Still, if you want to burst it then, visit your doctor, he will pop it up with a sterilized needle.
6. Touching the burnt area with dirty hands
Image Source: healthline
The affected area is more prone to infections, so it is suggested that you should avoid touching the affected area with dirty hands. And before you touch your burn, make sure that you wash your hands.
7. Leaving the elements open
Image Source: healthawarenesscommunity
If the affected area of your skin is open or raw then, make sure that you don’t leave it open as it gets an infection and feels irritated. Wrap the affected area with a bandage till you get the medical assistance.
So, these were the few mistakes to avoid when you have a burn.
Related Posts
February 8, 2019 0
10 Commonly Found Foods To Give You Healthier Gums And Stronger Teeth
February 5, 2019 0
The First Period: What You Girls Should Know!
November 5, 2018 0
Hacks You Should Follow to Stay Healthy During Winter
Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr
TRENDING
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2018 khoobsurati.com
X
Explore the Feminine World!
Makeup & Skincare tips, home remedies and entertainment gossips are just a click away.
Get into khoobsurati.com
By subscribing the page, I agree to the terms & conditions.
You've subscribed us successfully. Please check your email to stay in touch.