Essential Oils for Arthritis – ESSIO
ESSIO
Free Standard Shipping on Orders Over $50
Sign In
Register
0Shopping Cart
How it Works
Starter Kit
Refills
Breathe
Passion
Unwind
Night
Wisdom
Clear
Variety Pack
Blog
Fan Love
In the News
Sign In
Essential Oils for Arthritis
Arthritis is a joint disorder which involves the painful inflammation of one or
more joints. Causes are diverse, but essential oils for arthritis are an almost
universal approach to treating these common disorders which may ultimately limit
range of motion and mobility, and disfigure hands, feet, neck, spine, hips, knees
and other joints if left untreated.
Essential oils for arthritis may have a beneficial impact upon the condition in
a number of ways. When considering essential oils for arthritis, remember
that using an aromatherapy diffuser is one of
simplest and most direct ways to enjoy the healing properties of these botanical
extracts.
The pathology of arthritis often leads to the destruction of cartilage, resulting in
locking or fusion (ankylosis) of the joints. Rheumatoid arthritis may be the most
familiar form of this condition, and now is identified as a systemic autoimmune
disease, resulting from inflammation. In severe untreated cases, the classic
ankylosis symptom often may be observed in a crab claw-like deformity of the
hands and fingers, which typically happens over the course of decades. We
associate arthritis with old age, because the symptoms often do not manifest until
midlife, but arthritis in its several forms may affect people at any stage of life.
Essential oils for arthritis
may offer immediate relief in terms of a topical compress used with a heating
pad or ice-pack, as well as in an aromatherapy blend which may reduce the
level of inflammation which triggers the symptoms. The combined effects of
these oils offer immediate analgesic relief (Peppermint in particular), may reduce
the inflammatory cascade which causes arthritis, and may also stimulate the
movement of lymph as well as blood-circulation (Cedar in particular), helping to
move toxins out of the body faster to reduce swelling and stiffness.
Look for blends of essential oils for arthritis
which use these ingredients in a synergistic way:
• Peppermint
• Lavender
• Marjoram
• Eucalyptus
• Rosemary
• Peppermint
• Cedarwood
• Bay Leaf
• Tea Tree
• Lemon
• Myrrh
• Frankincense
The question of inflammation also should be explored from a lifestyle point
of view. In addition to affecting the joints, arthritis can also cause serious
internal inflammation, including in the pleura or membranes of the lungs,
the pericardium or membrane around the heart, and the sclera or white
of the eye. Many contemporary wellness practitioners believe that many
cases of arthritis are linked to Candida, a common yeast which often grows
to excessive levels in the human digestive tract. Some nutritionists link an
excess of Candida with eating processed products containing white flour and
white sugar, as well as other sweeteners and additives.
Apart from diet, a course of antibiotics may also trigger a flare-up of Candida
as the aftermath of killing normal bacterial gut flora. Essential oils for
arthritis may offer instant pain relief, but it is wise to consult with a health
practitioner if arthritic symptoms seem to correlate with taking medication for
a bacterial infection.
The conventional treatment for arthritis usually involves anti-inflammatory
drugs and steroids to suppress the symptoms, although these do not
halt the process of the disease. Newer disease-modifying anti-rheumatic
drugs as well as surgery may also be options. In tandem with these clinical
approaches, microinhalation and massage with essential oils for arthritis
may also offer comfort at any point during treatment.
Stay Connected!
Join 50,000+ and sign up to receive special offers, product alerts and more.
Quick Links
How It Works
Starter Kit
Refills
Register / Sign In
Blog
Customer Support
Help Center
Order Status
My Subscriptions
Contact Us
FAQ
More About Us
In The News
Wholesale
Affiliates
Careers
Brand Assets
Terms of Use
Patents
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 Aromatec, Inc. All rights reserved.
8605 Santa Monica Blvd. PMB 70095, West Hollywood, CA 90069
×
Essio - Shower Aromatherapy
BLACK FRIDAY SPECIAL
Buy 2 Starter Kits, Get 1 FREE!
Get an extra shower kit today only:
Perfect gift for friends & loved ones
Only available while supplies last
Get it in time for the holiday season
Today's Price: $0.00
YES, GET MY FREE STARTER KIT NOW
No thanks, I don’t want extra savings
Black Friday Special
Choose a 4-Pack Refill for free
Take advantage of this extra special Black Friday deal while supplies last!
Breathe
SELECT
Passion
SELECT
Unwind
SELECT
Night
SELECT
Wisdom
SELECT
Clear
SELECT
Variety Pack
SELECT
No thanks, I don’t want extra savings
CYBER MONDAY SPECIAL
Buy 1 Starter Kit, Get a FREE Variety Pack!
Experience 3 additional scents:
+ Night for sleep
+ Wisdom for inner awareness
+ Clear for sharper focus
Today's Price: $0.00
YES, GET MY FREE VARIETY PACK NOW
No thanks, I don’t want extra savings
CYBER MONDAY SPECIAL
Get 50% Off A Variety Pack Today Only!
Experience 3 additional scents:
+ Night for sleep
+ Wisdom for inner awareness
+ Clear for sharper focus
Today's Price: $9.99 19.99
YES, GET MY 50% SAVINGS NOW
No thanks, I don’t want extra savings
Powered by Proof Factor - Increase Conversions With Social Proof Notifications