Zinc Deficiency hampers Growth, Immunity, Cognition - Medhya Herbals
Newsletter SUBSCRIBE
0
Nutrition
Vitamins
Foods
Ayurvedic Superfoods
Grains, Cereals, Nuts, Seeds
Herbs and Spices
Health
Diseases and Health Disorders
Diabetes
Digestive Disorders
Hypertension
Inflammation
Joint Health
Liver
Migraine
Thyroid
Weight Loss
Health Principles
Immunity
Kids Health
Women’s Health
Menopause
Pregnancy, Child Birth, and Lactation
Expert Interviews
Recipes
Calcium Rich Recipes
Diabetic Friendly Recipes
Iron Rich Recipes
Kids Friendly Recipes
Recipes for Cancer
Recipes for Healthy Immune System
Recipes for Hypertension
Recipes for Pregnancy and New Mothers
Ayurveda
Ayurvedic Principles
Shop
Power Bites for Workout
Healthy Bites for Children
Nutrition for Working Professionals
Nutrition for Pregnancy and New Mothers
About Us
Contact Us
Media Mentions
FAQ – Medhya
Prev
Next
Hypertension
Zinc Deficiency hampers Growth, Immunity, Cognition
Zinc is an essential micronutrient and Mineral for the human body. It is widely present inside our body systems in the enzymes and metal-proteins.
Zinc is liberated from food as free ions during the digestion process. Then, it binds to ligands before it arrives in the small intestine. The absorption of Zinc from the small intestine is dependent on its concentration in foods. Also, studies show that Zinc-deprived humans absorb this element with increased efficiency, while humans on a high-zinc diet show a reduced efficiency of absorption.
When it is absorbed, about 70% of it is bound to albumin protein. So, any disturbance in albumin in blood will affect Zinc. Half of Zinc is excreted in faeces. The remaining is excreted in urine and through skin, hair and sweat.
Importance of Zinc
Zinc is very important for growth and development. It plays an important role in cell growth, differentiation and metabolism.
Over than 300 enzymes are dependent on Zinc. Zinc is important for the structure of proteins and cell membranes. Also, Zinc is important in gene expression.
Also, it is very important for immunity. It stimulates our immune to defend against bacteria and harmful pathogens.
Health Benefits of Zinc
Pneumonia
Studies show that supplementation of Zinc in children leads to reduction in the prevalence of pneumonia in developing countries.
Metabolic disorders
Studies show that Zinc might be beneficial in controlling metabolic disorders like obesity and insulin resistance in children.
HIV
Studies show that daily administration of Zinc enhances the immunity and reduces the infection with opportunistic bacteria in AIDS patients. However, other studies show that high Zinc intake can increases progression of HIV disease.
Atherosclerosis
Zinc found to be lower in children of parents with premature atherosclerosis. So, administration of Zinc has beneficial effect in the treatment of inflammation and atherosclerosis.
Common Cold
Some studies show that treatment with Zinc gluconate and Zinc acetate lozenges reduce duration of common cold. However, other studies show no effect of these lozenges on common cold.
Age-related macular degeneration
Macular degeneration can lead to blindness in elderly. Macula is part of retina that is responsible for central vision. As age increase, Zinc deficiency occurs thus enzymes dependent on it in the macula are affected.
Studies show that daily administration of Zinc alone (200mg Zinc sulphate which contains Zinc 81mg ) or with mixture of (500 mg of vitamin C, 400 IU of vitamin E, and 15 mg of β-carotene) and high-dose zinc (80 mg of zinc and 2 mg of copper ) reduces the high risk of macular degeneration.
Another study showed that administration of 50 mg/day of zinc monocysteine for six months decrease macular degeneration.
Recommended Dietary Requirement (RDA) for Zinc
Age Requirement (mg/day)
0-6 months 2
7 – 12 months 3
1 – 3 years 3
4 – 8 years 5
9 – 13 years 8
14 – 18 years Male 11
14 – 18 years Female 9
≥ 19 years Male 11
≥ 19 years Female 8
Pregnancy ≤ 18 years 12
Pregnancy > 19 years 11
Lactating woman ≤ 18 years 13
Lactating woman > 19 years 12
Best Zinc Foods for Natural Zinc Supply
Shellfish, beef, and other red meats are rich sources of zinc.
Nuts and legumes are relatively good plant sources of zinc.
Zinc bioavailability (the fraction of zinc retained and used by the body) is relatively high in meat, eggs, and seafood because of the relative absence of compounds that inhibit zinc absorption and the presence of sulfur-containing amino acids (cysteine and methionine) that improve zinc absorption.
The zinc in whole-grain products and plant proteins is less bioavailable due to their relatively high content of Phytic Acid, a compound that inhibits zinc absorption.
Zinc Deficiency
Zinc deficiency can include several organs as the epidermal, gastrointestinal, central nervous, immune, skeletal, and reproductive systems.
Zinc deficiency can affect growth especially in infants and children.
Causes of Zinc Deficiency
Inadequate dietary intake, as high cereals and legumes intake with less meat intake.
Malabsorption as in case of inflammatory bowel syndrome.
Increased fecal excretion of Zinc as in diarrhea.
Infections can decrease Zinc concentration in blood.
Genetic disorders as acrodermatitis enteropathica where impaired Zinc absorption and uptake occur. It is characterized by diarrhea.
Symptoms of Zinc Deficiency
In general, clinical manifestations of zinc deficiency vary with age:
In early infancy, diarrhea is a prominent symptom.
Zinc deficiency also leads to impaired cognitive function, behavioral problems, impaired memory, learning disability, and neuronal atrophy in babies and children.
Skin problems become more frequent as the child grows older.
Alopecia, growth retardation and recurrent infections are common in school-age children.
Chronic non-healing skin ulcers and also recurrent infections are common among the elderly.
High risk groups for Zinc Deficiency
Infants and children: due to high rate of growth. In the first 5-6 months of life, an infant can get adequate Zinc intake from his mother’s milk if she is well-nourished with Zinc. After this time, introducing of food which is with low Zinc as cereals causes the problem of Zinc deficiency.
Zinc requirement for malnourished children is estimated to be higher than normal children, between 2mg/Kg and 4mg/Kg.
Adolescents: The physiological requirements for zinc peak during adolescence at the time of the pubertal growth spurt, which generally occurs in girls between 10 years and 15 years and in boys between 12 years and 15 years.
Even after the growth spurt has ceased, adolescents may require additional zinc to replenish depleted tissue zinc pools.
Pregnant and Lactating women: need more Zinc demands.
Elderly: as absorption problems occur by age. Also, consumption of red meat is decreased.
Others: Alcoholics and people with chronic renal disease have Zinc deficiency.
Solutions for Zinc deficiency
Supplementation: In cases of diarrhea, supplementation of Zinc for 14 days, 10 mg/day for children under 3 years and 20 mg for older children.
In cases of anemia and other micronutrients deficiency, Zinc supplementation is 5 mg/day for children between 7 months and 3 years and 10 mg/day for older children.
Zinc supplements found in form of sulphate, gluconate and acetate.
Fortification: Zinc is added as Zinc sulphate (which is expensive) or Zinc Oxide. The absorption of both showed to be similar.
Fortification of infants’ milk formula with Zinc as 1mg/Liter
Also, in food as in flour, it is suggested that Zinc can be added in range of 30-70 mg per kg.
Bio–fortification: It differs from fortification as it intends to increase the concentration of Zinc in the growing plants as wheat, maize and rice.
Adding Zinc fertilizers, in the form of Zinc sulphate as it is more soluble and can increase Zinc phytoavailability in the soil, thus increase the cultivation of plants enriched with Zinc. Good results of this bio-fortification were shown in Harvest Zinc Project.
Zinc and other nutrients
Phytic Acid is a major inhibitor of Zinc. Phytic Acid is found in legumes and cereals. Phytic Acid contains high-density negative charge phosphates. It forms insoluble complex with Zinc, so it decreases Zinc absorption.
Some studies suggest consuming calcium is beneficial to prevent this insoluble complex to occur.
Techniques such as soaking, germination, and fermentation promote enzymatic hydrolysis of phytic acid in whole grain cereals and legumes by enhancing the activity of endogenous or exogenous phytase enzyme.
Also, non-enzymatic methods such as milling have been successful in reducing phytic acid content in plant-based staples.
High concentrations of iron in watery solutions can decrease Zinc absorption. Some studies show that iron fortification of solid food as bread does not affect Zinc absorption.
Proteins have a positive effect on Zinc absorption. Consumption of animal proteins (e.g., beef, eggs and cheese) improve the bioavailability of zinc from plant food sources.
High Zinc intake (50mg/day) for long period can decrease the absorption of copper as it enhances the synthesis of metallothionein. This protein traps copper and hinders its absorption from small intestine.
References
Zinc in Ayurvedic herbo-mineral products
Zinc – Oregon State University
Zinc and its importance for human health: An integrative review
0 Comments
best form of zinc
best sources of zinc
foods high in zinc
foods high in zinc and magnesium
foods that contain zinc
foods that have zinc
fruits with zinc
function of zinc in the body
good sources of zinc
how much zinc per day
is zinc good for you
low zinc
low zinc symptoms
natural sources of zinc
signs of zinc deficiency
sources of zinc
too much zinc side effects
too much zinc symptoms
uses of zinc
vegan zinc sources
vitamin c and zinc
vitamina zinc
what does zinc do
what does zinc do for the body
what does zinc do for you
what food has zinc
what foods are high in zinc
what foods contain zinc
what foods have zinc
what is zinc
what is zinc good for
what is zinc used for
what is zinc used for in the body
Zinc
zinc allergy
zinc benefits
zinc benefits for men
zinc benefits for women
zinc daily dose
zinc daily intake
zinc daily requirement
zinc deficiency
zinc deficiency causes
zinc deficiency nails
zinc deficiency symptoms
zinc deficiency treatment
zinc dosage
zinc dosage for child
zinc facts
zinc food sources
zinc foods
zinc for colds
zinc for hair
zinc for hair loss
zinc for kids
zinc for men
zinc for skin
zinc function
zinc gluconate
zinc health benefits
zinc in pregnancy
zinc in the body
zinc mineral
zinc overdose
zinc overdose symptoms
zinc pills
zinc properties
zinc rda
zinc rich foods
zinc rich foods chart
zinc rich foods for vegetarians
zinc rich fruits
zinc side effects
zinc tablets
zinc toxicity
zinc vitamin
zinc vitamin benefits
0 Like!
Share
Nidhi Bansal
SIGN-UP FOR WEEKLY NEWSLETTER UPDATES
First Name*
Email Address*
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Latest Posts
Malabar Spinach – Basella Alba – Benefits and Recipe
Chinese Broccoli – Kai lan and Jackfruit seeds stir-fry
Kangkong Stir-fry – Water Spinach – Asian Delicacy
Pumpkin Recipe – Indian Cooking – Diabetic Recipes
Human Digestive System Function and Organs
Post Categories
Post Categories Select Category Ayurveda Ayurvedic Principles Health Diseases and Health Disorders Diabetes Digestive Disorders Hypertension Inflammation Joint Health Liver Thyroid Weight Loss Expert Interviews Health Principles Digestive System Immunity Kids Health Women’s Health Pregnancy, Child Birth, and Lactation Nutrition Foods Ayurvedic Superfoods Grains, Cereals, Nuts, Seeds Herbs and Spices Minerals Vitamins Recipes Calcium Rich Recipes Diabetic Friendly Recipes Iron Rich Recipes Kids Friendly Recipes Recipes for Cancer Recipes for Healthy Immune System Recipes for Hypertension Recipes for Pregnancy and New Mothers
There are no shortcuts to the state of well being but timely nutrition, active lifestyle, quality time, and a curious mind.
About Medhya Herbals
Medhya Herbals offers wellness courses to fight off diseases and achieve an active body and mind! Our mission is guided by four key principles: Optimal nutrition, Relax and nurture mental faculties, Flush toxins off the system, and Balance the digestive system.
Posts Categories
Posts Categories Select Category Ayurveda Ayurvedic Principles Health Diseases and Health Disorders Diabetes Digestive Disorders Hypertension Inflammation Joint Health Liver Thyroid Weight Loss Expert Interviews Health Principles Digestive System Immunity Kids Health Women’s Health Pregnancy, Child Birth, and Lactation Nutrition Foods Ayurvedic Superfoods Grains, Cereals, Nuts, Seeds Herbs and Spices Minerals Vitamins Recipes Calcium Rich Recipes Diabetic Friendly Recipes Iron Rich Recipes Kids Friendly Recipes Recipes for Cancer Recipes for Healthy Immune System Recipes for Hypertension Recipes for Pregnancy and New Mothers
Search on Site
Search for:
Latest from Medhya Herbals
Malabar Spinach – Basella Alba – Benefits and Recipe
Chinese Broccoli – Kai lan and Jackfruit seeds stir-fry
Kangkong Stir-fry – Water Spinach – Asian Delicacy
© 2016-2019 Medhya - Madhu Herbals Private Limited
Search for:
Medhya Herbals - Rooted in Ayurveda & Validated by Science!