Elevated temperature | health.am
Skip to Content
health.am
Sections →
Mind and Body
Diet food and fitness
Weight Loss and Diet Plans
Fitness & Exercise
Oral Care
Health & Sex
Women's Health
Benign Breast Diseases
Breast Cancer
Hereditary Breast Cancers
Cervical Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Pregnancy
Pregnancy calendar
Pregnancy FAQ
Teenage Pregnancy
Early Pregnancy Risks
Disorders During Pregnancy
Diabetes Mellitus and Pregnancy
Adolescent Gynecology
Delayed Puberty
Urinary Incontinence
Stress Urinary Incontinence
Menstrual Irregularities
Dysmenorrhea
Uterine Prolapse
Menopausal Syndrome
Contraception
Infertility
Eating Disorders
Obesity and Diabetes
Emotional Eating
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Men's Health
Basis of Sleep
Common Sleep Disorders
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Warning Signs
MI Prevention
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Acute Heart Failure
What is Atherosclerosis?
High Blood Pressure
Hypertension Symptoms & signs
LDL and HDL cholesterol
Foods to avoid
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
Lifestyle changes
Prostate Cancer
Bladder Cancer
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Testicular Cancer
Penis Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Carcinoma of the Anus
Fast Foods
Exercise and Weight Control
Diabetes Mellitus
Prevention of Clinical Diabetes
Diabetes Complications and Prevention
Male Infertility & Sexual Dysfunction
Premature Ejaculation
Sexually Transmitted Infections
Children's Health
Childhood Sleep Disorders
Sleepwalking Disorder
Pediatric & Adolescent Gynecology
Contraception for Adolescents
Delayed Puberty
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Hypertension in children
Congenital heart disease
Childhood obesity
Pediatric Obesity Prevention
Binge Eating in Children
Aging Well
Successful aging
Exercise and age
Planning for Successful Aging
High Blood Pressure
Heart Attack Symptoms &Signs
Cardiac Failure
Exercise and age
Normal cognitive changes in aging
Normal Aging and Dementia
Short sleep, aging brain
Sleep speed brain aging
Breast Cancer in the elderly
Prostate Cancer
Prevention of Clinical Diabetes
Health Centers
Allergies
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Blood and Lymph Diseases
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
Women's Health
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Overweight and Obesity
Family and Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Why preventive care is important
Remember the old saying that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure"? This can be especially true when it comes to preventive health care. Maintaining or improving your health is important - and a focus on regular preventive care, along with following the advice of your doctor, can help you stay healthy.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Breast Cancer
High Blood Pressure
Schizophrenia
Chest Pain
Cocaine abuse
Marijuana use in adults
Elevated temperature
Feb 23, 2005 Viewed: 542
Alternative names
Fever; Hyperthermia; Pyrexia
Definition
Normal body temperature varies by person, age, activity, and time of day. The average normal body temperature is 98.6°F (37°C).
Considerations
Normal body temperature is a moving target:
In children younger than six months of age, the daily variation is small.
In children 6 months to 2 years old, the daily variation is about 1 degree.
Daily variations gradually increase to 2 degrees per day by age six.
Body temperature varies less in adults. However, a woman’s menstrual cycle can elevate temperature by one degree or more.
Your body temperature is usually highest in the evening. It can be raised by physical activity, strong emotion, eating, heavy clothing, medications, high room temperature, and high humidity. This is especially true in children.
A rectal temperature up to 100.4°F (38°C) may be entirely normal. A rectal temperature of 100.5°F or above should always be considered a fever. Lower values might be a fever, depending on the person.
Fever is not an illness. Far from being an enemy, it is an important part of the body’s defense against infection. Many infants and children develop high fevers with minor viral illnesses. While a fever signals to us that a battle might be going on in the body, the fever is fighting for the person, not against.
Most bacteria and viruses that cause infections in people thrive best at 98.6°F. Raising the temperature a few degrees can give your body the winning edge. In addition, a fever activates the body’s immune system to make more white blood cells, antibodies, and other infection-fighting agents.
Many parents fear that fevers will cause brain damage. Brain damage from a fever generally will not occur unless the fever is over 107.6°F (42°C). Many parents also fear that untreated fevers will keep going higher and higher. Untreated fevers caused by infection will seldom go over 105°F unless the child is overdressed, or trapped in a hot place. The brain’s thermostat will stop the fever from climbing above 106°F.
Some parents fear that fevers will cause seizures. For the great majority of children, this is not the case. However, febrile seizures do occur in some children. Once a child is already known to have a high fever, a febrile seizure is unlikely with the current illness. In any event, simple febrile seizures are over in moments with no lasting consequences.
Although infections are the most common causes of elevated body temperature, fevers have a long list of other causes, including toxins, cancers, and autoimmune diseases.
Heatstroke is a particularly dangerous type of high temperature, because the body is not able to stop the temperature from continuing to rise. It can happen when a child is left in a hot car or when you exercise too strenuously without enough to drink.
Unexplained fevers that continue for days or weeks are referred to by doctors as fevers of undetermined origin (FUO). Most are eventually found to be caused by a hidden infection.
Common Causes
Viral and bacterial infections
Colds or flu-like illnesses
Sore throats and strep throat
Ear infections
Viral gastroenteritis or bacterial gastroenteritis
Acute bronchitis
Infectious mononucleosis
Urinary tract infections
Upper respiratory infections (such as tonsillitis, pharyngitis or laryngitis)
Medications (such as antibiotics, antihistamines, barbiturates, and drugs for high blood pressure)
Occasionally, more serious problems like pneumonia, appendicitis, tuberculosis, and meningitis
Fever can occur in infants who are overdressed in hot weather or a hot environment
Collagen vascular disease, rheumatoid diseases, and autoimmune disorders
Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
Lupus erythematosus
Periarteritis nodosa
AIDS and HIV infection
Inflammatory bowel disease
Regional enteritis
Ulcerative colitis
Cancer
Leukemia
Neuroblastoma
Hodgkin’s disease
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Home Care
If the fever is mild and no other problems are present, no medical treatment is required. Drink fluids and rest. If a child is playful and comfortable, drinking plenty of fluids, and able to sleep, fever treatment is not likely to help.
Take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable, vomiting, dehydrated, or having difficulty sleeping. The goal is to lower, not eliminate, the fever.
When trying to reduce a fever:
DO NOT bundle up someone who has the chills.
Remove excess clothing or blankets. The environment should be comfortably cool. For example, one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket to sleep. If the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
A lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever. This is especially effective after medication is given - otherwise the temperature might bounce right back up.
DO NOT use cold baths or alcohol rubs. These cool the skin, but often make the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body temperature.
Drink cool liquids, as tolerated.
Here are some guidelines for taking medicine:
Acetaminophen and ibuprofen help reduce fever in children and adults.
Take acetaminophen every 4-6 hours. It works by turning down the brain’s thermostat. Take ibuprofen every 6-8 hours. Like aspirin, it helps fight inflammation at the source of the fever. Sometimes doctors advise you to use both types of medicine. Ibuprofen is not approved for use under 6 months of age.
Aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults. DO NOT give aspirin to children.
Fever medicines come in different concentrations, so always check the instructions on the package.
Don’t use any medicine to reduce fever in children under three months of age without first contacting a physician.
If someone has heat exhaustion or heat stroke, remove the person from the heat source. Sponge the person with tepid water. Place ice packs in the armpits, behind the neck, and in the groin. Give fluids if the person is alert. Seek medical attention. If heat illness is causing the fever, medicines may not lower the body temperature and may even be harmful.
Call your health care provider if
Call a doctor right away if:
A baby less than 90 days old has a rectal temperature of 100.2°F (37.9°C) or higher.
A baby 3 to 6 months old has a fever of 101°F (38.3°C) or higher.
A baby 6 to 12 months old has a fever of 103°F (39.4°C) or higher.
A child under age two years has a fever that lasts longer than 24 to 48 hours.
A fever lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults.
Anyone has a fever over 105°F (40.5°C), unless it comes down readily with treatment and the person is comfortable.
There are other worrisome symptoms. For example, irritability, confusion, difficulty breathing, stiff neck, inability to move an arm or leg, or first-time seizure.
There are other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, or cough.
You think you may have incorrectly dosed acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
What to expect at your health care provider’s office
Your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and abdomen to look for the cause of the fever. Your doctor may ask questions such as.
How long has the fever lasted?
Is it increasing? Is it increasing rapidly?
Has the fever gone away?
How many days did it take for the fever to go away?
Do you have alternating chills and fever?
How frequently does it alternate (days, hours)?
Did it occur within four to six hours after exposure to something that you might be allergic to?
Does the fever follow an up and down pattern (is it high, then lower, then high)?
Did it develop suddenly?
Does the temperature go up and down suddenly (spike) or does it change slowly?
Does it go away and then come back again daily?
Treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, and on other accompanying symptoms.
The following diagnostic tests may be performed:
Blood studies, such as a CBC or blood differential
Urinalysis
Sputum culture
Spinal tap
X-ray of the chest
Last revised: December 8, 2012
by Brenda A. Kuper, M.D.
Medical Encyclopedia
A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z | 0-9
All ArmMed Media material is provided for information only and is neither advice nor a substitute for proper medical care. Consult a qualified healthcare professional who understands your particular history for individual concerns.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Headlines
Preventing child obesity in the next generation…
It’s time to consider propranolol as an…
How long should children play video games?
E-cigarette vapor does not cause oxidative stress…
Heavy hitters: Obesity rate soars among professional…
Rap1, a potential new target to treat obesity
Belief about nicotine content in cigarette may…
You Can Stop Feeling Bad About Eating Chocolate
Overweight and obese type 2 patients show improvements…
Researchers explore epigenetic influences of chronic…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Most Read
Most Read
Marijuana use in adults
2009 H1N1 Influenza
Asthma
Top Proven Health Benefits of Fish Oil
Ectopic pregnancy
Successful aging: THE SECOND 50
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Avastin Eye Injection Treatment for Macular Degeneration
Hemorrhoids
New STELARA data show inhibition of joint destruction in…
Cancer News
UA Cancer Center team questions safety, efficacy of selenium…
Many adolescent girls with leukemia are not being screened…
Anti-tumor immunity identified with new ovarian cancer treatment…
Study examines survival outcomes after different lung cancer…
New strategy identified for treating acute myeloid leukemia
Saturated fatty acids linked to breast cancer in postmenopausal…
Study may help reassure women taking tamoxifen for breast…
High fruit intake during adolescence linked with lower breast…
Andrei Goga’s UCSF team finds new approaches to eradicate…
Study suggests testosterone therapy does not raise risk…
Mental News
Assisted dying for psychiatric disorders: Serious public…
PTSD linked to low levels of fat hormone
Clinicians need to screen ‘nicotine naive’ teenagers…
Post-traumatic stress disorder seen in many adults living…
ADHD medications associated with diminished bone health…
Antidepressant may improve cognitive symptoms in people…
Alcohol exposure during pregnancy affects multiple generations
Vulnerability to depression linked to noradrenaline
Gene study points towards therapies for common brain disorders
Diagnosing depression before it starts
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved