Vitamin B12
FAQ | Privacy
24 Healing Options for any Illness
*
*
* *
* *
* * *
Challenges Addiction ADHD Alzheimer's	Autism Dementia Depression	Insomnia	Pain	Weight Loss Diets Others * *
Vitamin B12
Vitamin deficiencies are common in elderly people, as they often have more trouble absorbing nutrients from their food. Deficiencies in multiple B vitamins are believed to be liked to dementia and cognitive decline in general, but B12 has the strongest evidence behind it.
Vitamin B12 is important to neurological health in general, but is especially of interest because of its ability to break down a chemical known as homocysteine. Homocysteine is a harmful substance that his believed to play a role in the development of Alzheimer's disease, and deficiencies in B12 or the other vitamins that help to break it down can cause it to reach harmful levels. Thus, it is believed that supplementing the diet with vitamin B12 can help protect against the harmful effects of homocysteine and treat the neurological issues that it causes.
Vitamin B12 supplements are considered safe and are not associated with any negative side-effects. However, it should be noted that the response time to these supplements can be long, so one should not expect to see immediate improvement.
Scientific Studies:
Most of the research that has been done regarding the relationship between vitamin B12 and dementia has focused on the apparent impact of B12 deficiencies on cognitive health. In 1990, researchers found that on average, people with Alzheimer's-type dementia had significantly lower concentrations of B12 in their blood than their healthy counterparts. A similar study conducted in 2000 found that "...subjects with low levels of B12 or folate had twice higher risks of developing AD [Alzheimer's]." The authors of the study concluded by recommending that B12 and folic acid levels be monitored in the elderly as a way to better detect, treat, and prevent Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia.
Other studies have looked at the relationship between dementia and levels of B12 and homocysteine. In 1998, researchers reported that those with dementia had unusually high levels of homocysteine and unusually low levels of B12 compared to their healthy counterparts. Four years later, another study found that higher concentrations of homocysteine in the body led to a significantly higher chance of developing Alzheimer's.
Want personalized help?
We're here for you! Give us a call at 617-395-8864 and connect with our team of expert data scientists.
Be sure to check out the many other services we offer as well, including comprehensive wellness testing, 24/7 doctor consultations, valuable discounts, and much more. Free trials are available.
Submit
TeddyCan Search (Data Driven Healing Self-Service) | TeddyCan Tutor | Sitemap
Copyright 2018 TeddyCanHeal