stress | Inner Health Blog
Inner Health Blog
Health, Vitality & Beauty from the Inside Out!
Main menu
Skip to content
Inner Health Home
Hypnotherapy
Self-Hypnosis Downloads
Testimonials
Weight Loss
Stress Elimination Self-Hypnosis
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety
Pain Management
Tag Archives: stress
Post navigation
← Older posts
The Dark Side of Your Emotional Needs – Mind and Body
Posted on March 27, 2018 by ihbPT
“The human body experiences a powerful gravitational pull in the direction of hope. That is why the patient’s hopes are the physician’s secret weapon. They are the hidden ingredients in any prescription.” – Norman Cousins
Your body matters, and so does your mind, because they’re the same matter. Your emotions directly affect your body, and it goes the other way too. Mental and physical health cannot be disentangled.
Each and every one of us has a natural current running through us called the ultradian rhythm. Every 90 to 120 minutes we shift from left-brain dominance to right-brain. The shift takes about 20 minutes, and it usually makes us feel a little entranced or day-dreamy.
It’s during this shift that the immune system does its upkeep, the brain incorporates new learning, and the gut digests and absorbs nutrients. It’s little wonder that when we continue to swim against the tides of this natural rhythm we start to feel broken and emotional.
Sure, you can refuse to listen to your physical needs for a while, override them for a bit… but do it for long enough and you’ll come to feel depleted on every level.
Hypnotizing someone is often a case of just letting the sails catch the breeze of this warm and wonderful natural shift in physical and mental focus.
People increasingly treat themselves as machines. We work through lunch, sleep too little, eat junk on the run, skip the gym, and prop up our flagging bodies with ‘energy drinks’.
But neglecting proper nutrition, sleep, rest, and exercise long term leads to psychological problems and stress-induced illness, and not just on the individual level. In unhealthy populations, collective emotions run riot. And that can lead us down some dark paths.
With too little exposure to natural light, poor nutrition, and scant exercise we start to feel second-rate… we become weak and sick in mind and body.
And what is good for the body is good for the mind. Having a terrible diet (or eating foods your body is intolerant of) can make you feel depressed and anxious. Conversely, physical exercise, even a 30 minute walk is protective against anxiety and a wonderful mood enhancer, especially when done outdoors in nature.
It’s a cliché to talk about ‘self-medicating’. But people do. Whether through comfort eating, smoking, alcohol, or barbiturates, or cannabis, it’s a common way to ‘switch off’, forget about the day and absorb oneself in the moment.
But self-medication is always accompanied by self-delusion – convincing ourselves, consciously or unconsciously, that the ‘medication’ has few side effects, or that somehow we can cheat the future.
Cliché it may be, but ‘self-medication’ is a fine analogy. Indeed, it’s the side effects that are the problem. Side effects that can make it harder for people to meet their actual physical and emotional needs.
When we seek in the long term to provide ourselves with energy through coffee instead of rest, to distract ourselves from problems through the oblivion of drugs, or to resort to any form of self-harm rather than actually working to solve our problems, then the attempted ‘solution’ becomes the enemy – not the comforting or encouraging ‘friend’ it might masquerade as.
Listen and you will hear…
We all need to work at being attuned to our bodies. If we don’t, we can lose the capacity to interpret the signals from our bodies. We need to listen to our bodies – always. What is it you actually need?
From the desk of Mark Tyrrell http://www.hypnosisdownloads.com/?6660
Posted in Brain Health	| Tagged anxiety, diet, hypnosis, immune system, nutrition, stress	| Leave a comment |
Why Should I Detox?
Posted on December 21, 2017 by ihbPT
Did you know that many reasons why people are sick or end up with inflammation and disease in the body is through unchecked build-up of toxins in the body? There are many different toxins that enter our bodies from different sources and disrupt and interfere with our internal endocrine system.
The endocrine system consists of a set of glands (thyroid, gonads, adrenal and pituitary) and the hormones they produce (thyroxine, estrogen, testosterone and adrenaline), which help guide the development, growth, reproduction, and behaviour of animals, including humans. Hormones are signalling molecules, which travel through the bloodstream and elicit responses in other parts of the body.
Known endocrine disruptors in the human body include:
Heavy Metals like lead, nickel, tin, arsenic, cadium, antimony and uranium. Heavy metals cause oxidative damage to your cells and deplete essential minerals your body needs. One of the big one’s is mercury from dental fillings.
Household Products that contain plasticizers such as Bisphenol A found in plastic bottles. Endocrine disruptors may be found in many everyday products– including metal food cans, detergents, food, toys, and cosmetics.
Pharmaceuticals
Endocrine-disrupter compounds (EDC) are also found in pharmaceuticals. Protein Disulfide Isomerase (PDI) in the endoplasmic reticulum of all cells catalyses the rearrangement of disulfide bridges during folding of membrane and secreted proteins. As PDI is also known to bind various molecules including hormones such as estradiol and thyroxin, we considered the hypothesis that adverse effects of endocrine-disrupter compounds (EDC) could be mediated through their interaction with PDI leading to defects in membrane or secreted proteins.
The present data indicate that the tested EDCs could not only affect endocrine target cells through nuclear receptors as previously shown, but could also affect these and all other cells by positively or negatively affecting PDI activity. The substrate DiE-GSSG has been demonstrated to be a convenient substrate to measure PDI reductase activity in the presence of various potential EDCs. It will certainely be usefull for the screening of potential effect of all kinds of chemicals on PDI reductase activity. -Source: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0009507
Phytoestrogens
Another natural example of an endocrine disrupter is Phytoestrogens, which are naturally occurring substances in plants that have hormone-like activity. Examples of phytoestrogens are genistein and daidzein, which can be found in soy-derived products.
Emotional Toxins
Emotional toxicity from stressful situations can cause mental and physical impairment in the body, even witnessing a traumatic event on the television screen can cause emotional toxins in the body.
Electromagnetic Frequencies that mess with our body’s electromagnetic frequency and include cell /mobile phones, tablets, laptops, desktop computers, power lines and telecommunication towers.
Environmental Pesticides, Herbicides and Flame Retardants
More than 50 pesticide active ingredients have been identified as endocrine disruptors by the European Union and endocrine disruptor expert Theo Colborn, PhD. –Source: https://www.beyondpesticides.org/resources/pesticide-induced-diseases-database/endocrine-disruption
A huge number of chemicals have been identified as endocrine disruptors, among them several pesticides. Pesticides are used to kill unwanted organisms in crops, public areas, homes and gardens, and parasites in medicine. -Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3138025/
PBCs
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a broad group of chemicals that includes 209 aromatic chlorinated hydrocarbons used for products ranging from fluorescent light fixtures to coolant fluids inside parts of consumer electronics. Short-term exposure to large amounts of PCBs can cause liver damage; the effects of smaller concentrations can be more subtle, affecting the reproductive development of children of exposed mothers. -Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1480494/
The potential for human exposure to PCBs still exists, however, because they persist in air, soil, and water sediments for many years. Additionally, they are also found in older transformers, capacitors, fluorescent lighting fixtures, electrical devices, and appliances that are still in use.
Dioxin and Dioxin-like Compounds (DLCs)
Dioxins and dioxin-like compounds (DLCs) are compounds that are highly toxic environmental persistent organic pollutants (POPs).
DLCs are unintended by-products of combustion. Combustion sources can be of anthropogenic (e.g., waste incineration) or natural origin (e.g., forest fires). Industrial (e.g., paper and chemical manufacturing) and biological processes also contribute to DLC production, although in smaller quantities.
Nutritional supplementation is a powerful and effective way to detox your system but before you rush out and buy different detox vitamins, minerals and herbs, you need to know the different grades of nutritional supplements available in the marketplace: Pharmaceutical Grade, Medical Grade, Cosmetic or Nutritional Grade.
Pharmaceutical Grade is the highest quality grade of vitamins and supplements meaning the purity; dissolution and absorption meet the highest regulatory standard verified by an independent party. Pharmaceutical grade vitamins and nutrients may be available without a prescription, but they are typically sold by licensed health care professionals.
Medical Grade vitamins and nutrients are also high-grade supplements but may not meet all the standards of pharmaceutical grade supplements. Prenatal vitamins normally fall into this category.
Cosmetic or Nutritional Grade supplements are typically sold in health food stores, chemists and, readily available on supermarket shelves. These supplements may not always be tested for absorption, dissolution or purity. Additionally, these supplements do not always have the same concentration of active ingredients as what is listed on the label.
You may or may not be aware that 98% of supplements readily available are of cosmetic grade… not even close to pharmaceutical grade.
One line of powerful and very effective nutritional supplements is the Le-vel brand THRIVE line here https://brainspahealth.le-vel.com The reason people are seeing amazing results when using THRIVE nutritional supplements, and why they cost a little more, is because they are pharmaceutical-grade, and only the highest quality nutritional ingredients are sourced.
Posted in Entire Body Detox	| Tagged anxiety, body cleanse, cleanse, depression, detox, hormones, inflammation, mind food, nutrition, stress, thyroid	| Leave a comment |
Importance of Mitochondria in Your Body-Gut Health
Posted on November 21, 2017 by ihbPT
Importance of Mitochondria in Your Body-Gut Health
The gut has been often called the second brain but new research is indicating that it may be the first brain. Your gut feeds your body and brain and can be beneficial or detrimental (dependent on what you put in it) to your overall heath including mood, energy, motivation, mental clarity and focus, weight and even disease in the body… if your gut ain’t right… you ain’t right!
That is why it is vital that you are supplementing your diet with high-quality, pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements… because on the account of mineral depleted soil and erosion, fast foods, processed foods, sugary foods and drinks, and environmental factors… we are just not getting all the nutrients our body crave and need in our diets today.
Gut microbiota (formerly called gut flora) is the name given today to the microbe population living in our intestine. Some of the functions are:
It helps the body to digest certain foods that the stomach and small intestine have not been able to digest.
It helps with the production of some vitamins (B and K).
It helps us combat aggressions from other microorganisms, maintaining the wholeness of the intestinal mucosa.
It plays an important role in the immune system, performing a barrier effect.
A healthy and balanced gut microbiota is key to ensuring proper digestive functioning.
Taking into account the major role gut microbiota plays in the normal functioning of the body and the different functions it accomplishes, experts nowadays consider it as an “organ”. However, it is an “acquired” organ, as babies are born sterile; that is, intestine colonisation starts right after birth and evolves as we grow.
Although it can adapt to change, a loss of balance in gut microbiota may arise in some specific situations. This is called dysbiosis. Dysbiosis may be linked to health problems such as functional bowel disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, allergies, obesity and diabetes.
-Source: http://www.gutmicrobiotaforhealth.com/en/about-gut-microbiota-info/
Before telling you how you can put your heart attack worries behind you, you need to understand WHY healthy older people have heart attacks in the first place… and it all starts with the little power plants inside your cells called mitochondria.
Mitochondria (might-o-con-dria) are responsible for turning food into cellular energy. They’re responsible for every ounce of energy created in your body… whenever you garden or golf… whenever you do something as simple as flex a muscle… the energy you do it with comes from millions of microscopic mitochondria.
You might think that since your entire body needs energy that the mitochondria are spread out evenly… but that’s not the case. Take your biceps for example…
Your biceps have about 200 mitochondria in every cell – that’s what it takes to flex your muscles, pick up your groceries, or raise your arm to scratch your nose. Not 200 mitochondria in your biceps…200 mitochondria in every single cell in your biceps.
But it takes 5,000 mitochondria in each heart cell to keep it pumping strong! Your heart is the biggest user of mitochondria, by far. And yet, as important as mitochondria are…
1 out of every 6 people has mitochondrial dysfunction!
And it turns out, as we get older, our mitochondria start to mutate. Our cells come under attack from toxins … from stress … but mostly, from free oxygen radicals. These toxins cause the mitochondria to mutate and die out.
Each time it happens it’s like microscopic blackout… Picture your heart full of millions of energy plants that are going dark, one by one… that’s exactly what happens as we age… the process takes years but eventually, your heart lacks the energy to even beat properly… it gets sluggish and irregular.
If you’ve ever felt your heart skip a beat or had a single powerful beat that scared you… you might be experiencing what happens when your heart doesn’t have enough energy. Without help, this happens to all of us.
But the process starts when you’re 30 and takes years before it’s a killer… and that’s the real reason teenagers generally don’t suffer heart attacks… their mitochondria haven’t been under attack long enough… not enough of them have mutated YET! So, their heart has plenty of energy to fire on all cylinders. So if you are not a teen… every year takes its toll.
As mitochondria die off, our heart doesn’t have the energy it needs to pump like it should… our heart doesn’t “fire” right… it gets sluggish… so, it must work harder to try and keep blood flowing to your arteries.
Your heart is like any other muscle – it grows when it’s overworked… so, your heart becomes enlarged. Then it takes on excess fluid, straining itself even more until finally, blood backs up in your lungs and other vital organs… and that’s called Congestive Heart Failure, or CHF.
Five million Americans have CHF and there’s a half million new cases every year… and CHF is nasty. It leaves you short of breath, tired, and weak… your legs, ankles, and feet swell… your heart beats funny… and you pick up a cough that won’t seem to go away.
Over time, Congestive Heart Failure will kill you if left untreated. And I’ve been told it feels like you’re drowning… but it’s slow… so you have this horrible feeling for months.
Young people don’t get normally suffer from CHF because they still have plenty of mitochondria to keep the heart pumping.
The OTHER Reason Teenagers Don’t Get Heart Attacks
Have you heard about “good cholesterol” and “bad cholesterol”? The good cholesterol is called HDL (High Density Lipoprotein – lie-po-pro-teen). HDL sweeps gunk out of your arteries.
The bad cholesterol is called LDL (Low Density Lipoprotein). LDL sticks to the walls of your arteries and blocks them up.
But that’s only half the story…
After all, teenagers eat a pile of that stuff… and they aren’t dropping dead on the ground with blocked arteries. As it turns out, LDL (bad) cholesterol doesn’t grab on to the walls of your arteries… and it doesn’t block the blood flow to the heart… not by itself anyway.
In young people, LDL cholesterol particles pass through the arteries, like a hot knife through butter. It simply doesn’t cause kids any problems. But as we get older, something changes… our LDL particles start to oxidate (rust).
And as LDL particles rust, that’s when they get stuck to our artery walls. The rust builds up, and causes heart attacks. How does this happen? Well, it’s not exactly rust. Rust is the term for what happens when iron meets free oxygen radicals and oxidizes.
But lots of other things besides iron oxidize too. When you slice an apple in half and leave it and it goes brown is an example of oxidation. But you don’t want oxidation on your LDL particles… because that’s what turns them into deadly plaque…
And it’s oxidation that mutates and kills off your Mitochondria too. If it’s oxidation that causes plaque, and it’s oxidation that kills your energy-producing mitochondria… it makes sense to stop oxidation dead in its tracks… so how do we do that?
The human body is colonized by a vast number of microbes, collectively referred to as the human microbiota. The link between these microbes and our health is the focus of a growing number of research initiatives, and new insights are emerging rapidly.
Your first step to improving your gut health is to remove sugar, alcohol, wheat products, and fast foods and processed foods (most contain sugar under different guises) from your diet. If possible, eat certified organic wholefoods, fruit and vegetables (we want to avoid additives, pesticides and herbicides that may still be present). Try this for a month and you will be amazed on how much better you feel.
The second step is to supplement your diet with high-quality; pharmaceutical-grade supplements that contain not only the essential vitamins and minerals but also prebiotics, probiotics, enzymes, and amino acids, which are all essential for maintaining good gut health and help feed your good microbiota and guard against two common forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
-Source: https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11582
Another very powerful supplement for gut health is Coenzyme-Q10 (CoQ10).
CoQ10 is a powerful antioxidant and is much better at keeping LDL from turning into plaque than Vitamin E is https://www.emoryhealthcare.org/heart-vascular/wellness/heart-failure-statistics.html
CoQ10 isn’t some foreign chemical… it’s already produced in every cell of your body. Not only does CoQ10 keep oxidation at bay… it’s the fuel that helps mitochondria turn food into energy.
CoQ10 functions in the mitochondria, the “powerhouse” of the cell, to assist in making energy (called adenosine triphosphate or ATP) from carbohydrates and fats.
CoQ10 primarily acts as an antioxidant in the heart and is involved in the synthesis of energy, but it also has other important functions inside the mitochondria such as stabilizing membranes. CoQ10 protects the “bad” LDL cholesterol that is implicated in atherosclerosis from oxidizing. Because of CoQ10’s role in oxidative stress, energy production and stabilization, it is useful in preventing damage to the heart during periods of stress.
CoQ10 levels have been shown to be depleted in patients with a variety of heart conditions and in those taking cholesterol-lowering statin drugs. Research of CoQ10 spanning over 30 years shows potential for use in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease in these patients.
-Source: https://www.nutritionexpress.com/showarticle.aspx?articleid=786
But when you hit about 30, you start to lose CoQ10. – http://www.liveinthenow.com/article/anti-aging-supplement-profile-coq10
The fact is, you’ll lose up to about 72% of your CoQ10 as you near old age. – http://www.lifeextension.com/Vitamins-Supplements/item01733/Super-Ubiquinol-CoQ10-with-BioPQQ
And if you take statins, your CoQ10 levels dip even faster. Statins alone lower CoQ10 levels by a whopping 40%! – http://www.lifeextension.com/Vitamins-Supplements/item01733/Super-Ubiquinol-CoQ10-with-BioPQQ
If you are looking for powerful pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements that provide high-quality pre and probiotics, enzymes, amino acids, antioxidants, Co-Q10 plus a whole range of other vitamins, minerals, and herb and plant extracts, then you need to look no further than the THRIVE line of supplements…
Also read:
Cancer and the gut microbiota: An unexpected link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4690201/
Microbiota: a key orchestrator of cancer therapy: https://www.nature.com/articles/nrc.2017.13
Gut microbiota and colorectal cancer: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5395603/
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
It is designed as being a expressing of information and knowledge through the investigation and practical experience of the numerous authors. You should try to make your individual healthcare decisions dependent on your research and in collaboration with a qualified health care professional.
Posted in Gut Health	| Tagged anxiety, autoimmune disorder, brain health, depression, gut health mitochondria, immune support, microbiota, nutrition, stress, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
Stress, Lack of Energy and Adrenal Fatigue…
Posted on November 4, 2017 by ihbPT
We live in an age of where chronic stress is fast becoming the major contributor fatigue, brain fog, ailments and pain in the body and weight gain… and in many cases… under-weight issues.
It is estimated that up to 90% of visits to a doctor involves stress. Stress about our relationships… our family… our children… and our health. And throw in workplace and environmental stress and you have a toxic minefield.
But the most important thing that no one is telling you is that fatigue and lack of focus may very well be adrenal fatigue. Largely the result of mental, physical and emotional stress… along with poor nutrition and lifestyle… adrenal fatigue is fast becoming an invisible epidemic.
And with our modern busy lives, it often feels like its never-ending battle, trying to eat well and live a balanced lifestyle.
Nutrient deficiencies are real! Many of us have low levels of selenium, vitamin D, vitamin E and low levels of the B vitamins, especially vitamin B12.
Some powerful supplements for stress-relief, anxiety and depression include; Coenzyme Q10 (Co-Q10), 5-HTP, Quercetin, L-Tryptophan, Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA), Taurine, Glycine, L-Phenylalanine, Ashwagandha Extract, Bacopa Monnieri Extract, Valerian Root Extract, Passion Flower Extract, Hops Extract, Chamomile Extract, Melatonin, L-Theanine, Skullcap Extract.
I also want you to remember that stress is not just caused by external factors, but can also be self-induced due to our thought patterns like negative self-talk or perfectionism.
Stress can cause a myriad of symptoms in the body including feeling tired all the time, lack of energy, pain in the body (particularly the lower back), chronic fatigue, hormone imbalance, mood swings, hot flushes, aching joints, and the list goes on…
The way you think also has a tremendous impact on how you view and function in the world. It can impact your stress levels, your metabolism, your hormones, and even your heart health.
Your mind can get stuck in emotional ruts… negative habits and belief patterns of thinking that may have made sense at one time in your life but have now become outdated and lead to thoughts and actions that no longer support your well-being.
Signs of poor adrenal function may include the following:
Regularly feeling overwhelmed
Feeling tired despite adequate sleep
Difficulty getting up in the morning most days
Lack of energy and motivation
Mental fog
Less enjoyment in life
Reduced ability in decision making
Anxiety and panic attacks
Reduced productivity
Poor memory
Decreasing ability to handle stress
Slowed healing
Mild depression
Alternating diarrhoea/constipation
Low blood sugar
Craving for salty foods (“I just ate a whole bag of chips syndrome”)
Do any of these sound familiar?
The good news is… like so much of our personal health… it is a reversible condition (with the right steps and information). Hypnotherapy is a proven first step to taking back control of your life. My “clearing the decks” stress relief hypnotherapy session creates a clearer; more focused and motivated mind state to tackle other issues that are stopping you living a more powerful and fulfilling life.
If you are sick and tired of being sick and tired, pick up the phone and call me now… the first step to relief could be just minutes away. Call Paul now on 0424 671 411 for an obligation free chat.
Posted in Stress Relief	| Tagged adrenal fatigue, anxiety, brain fog, depression, emotional stress, fatigue, hormone imbalance, hypnotherapy, mood swings, nutrition, panic attacks, stress, stress relief, weight gain, weight issues	| Leave a comment |
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety Related Issues
Can nutritional supplements help ease stress and anxiety levels? Latest research is suggesting that balanced quality nutritional intake can bring your body and mind back into balance and, if you take steps to resolve the source of your stress and anxiety through therapy, then the results can be impressive.
Alleviate stress with the powerful nutrition
Best stress treatment
The best way to treat stress over the long term is to identify the root causes of it, and see if your lifestyle can be changed to reduce it. Much of the stress you feel will be emotional stress, which can create emotional blockages within the body and often show up as excess weight or pain in the body, and sometimes both. Hypnotherapy is a quick and powerful way to eliminate emotional stress but you can also try meditation, yoga, controlled breathing, tai chi or exercise, like relaxing walks in nature, to help cope with stress.
The following are some nutritional supplements you can try for yourself but if you are taking any medications you should always check with your physician before taking nutritional supplements as they could conflict with your medication.
Co-Q10, 5-HTP, Quercetin, L-Tryptophan, GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid), Skullcap Extract, Ashwagandha Extract, Bacopa Monnieri Extract, Valerian Root Extract, Passion Flower Extract, Hops Extract, Chamomile Extract, Melatonin, L-Theanine, Vitamin B-12, Vitamin D3, Vitamin E, Vitamin B-Complex: thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), biotin, folic acid, and the cobalamins (B12),
Probiotic: L. Helveticus (Lactobacillus helveticus), Glutamine, Chromium as Chromium AAC (Amino Acid Chelate), Phenylethylamine or PEA, Amylase, Wheat grass powder, Magnesium, Ginger Root Extract, Licorice Root, Eleuthero root extract, Citrus Aurantium Extract (Bitter Orange), Aspartic Acid, L-Serine, White Tea Extract, Satiereal™ Saffron Extract (crocus), Ginkgo leaf extract, St. John’s Wort, Phosphatidylserine, Lemon Balm, Kava, Guarana, Garcinia Cambogia, Fish Oil.
Please Note: The following ingredients research is not company supplied but based upon my own independent Google research, you are welcome to do your own research…
Co-Q10
A recent study in Cairo, Egypt has uncovered an unusual property of Co-Q10 that is rather surprising: It eliminates depression and anxiety.
After stressing out the mice with forced swimming and chronic restraint stress (CRS), something cruel kids might do, anxiety and depression were artificially induced in the mice, a standard lab gimmick. Then they were fed large amounts of Co-Q10 for three weeks.
It became apparent that most of the observed anxiety and depression abated during the Co-Q10 feeding. The biological markers also showed increased antioxidant activity in the hippocampus, reversing oxidative cellular and DNA damage.
-Source: http://www.naturalnews.com/039051_chronic_depression_Co-Q10_heart_health.html
A small study found that out of 31 patients who suffer from migraines, 19 of them reported the number of days they had migraines cut in half. Another small study of 42 migraine sufferers compared Coenzyme Q10 to an inactive placebo. In that study, of CoQ10 and migraine, the supplement was three times more likely than placebo to reduce the number of migraines.
A larger study of 1,550 patients ages 3 to 22 with migraine measured their Coenzyme Q10 levels. Of those migraine sufferers, 33 percent had low levels of CoQ10. Those with low levels received Coenzyme Q10 supplements and had fewer migraines.
-Source: https://migraine.com/migraine-treatment/natural-remedies/coenzyme-q10/
5-HTP
“5-HTP (5-hydroxytryptophan) is a naturally occurring substance derived from the seed pods of Griffonia simplicifolia, a West African medicinal plant. In humans, 5-HTP is the immediate nutrient precursor to the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT). This means that 5-HTP converts directly into serotonin in the brain (see Figure 1). Serotonin has many profoundly important functions, including a role in sleep, appetite, memory, learning, temperature regulation, mood, sexual behavior, cardiovascular function, muscle contraction, and endocrine regulation.” –Source: http://www.life-enhancement.com/magazine/article/178-5-htp-enhance-your-mood-your-sleep-and-a-lot-more
“5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), an antioxidant and a precursor to the neurotransmitter serotonin, has been shown in studies to prevent both migraines and tension-type headaches. Taking 5-HTP as a supplement is believed to help reduce headache frequency and severity by modulating serotonin and increasing endorphin levels. “
“In one clinical trial, 124 patients with chronic migraines received either 5-HTP or methysergide (a drug used to prevent migraines) for 6 months.[5] Significant improvement in frequency and number of severe attacks occurred for 71% of those in the 5-HTP group, which was the same effect achieved with the prescription medication. “
“5-HTP has also been used successfully in the prevention of chronic tension-type headaches.[6] Since 5-HTP is also beneficial for insomnia, depression, and anxiety symptoms, it is especially appropriate for individuals who have headaches accompanied by sleep or mood disorders.” -Source: https://universityhealthnews.com/daily/pain/3-therapies-for-natural-migraine-relief-and-other-headache-remedies/
The amino acid 5-hydroxytryptophan, or 5-HTP, is another natural option for upping serotonin levels. As a serotonin precursor, 5-HTP may help those for whom SSRIs like Prozac don’t seem to work, says Katie Baker, ND, owner of Stone Turtle Health, a naturopathic family medicine practice in Seattle. “SSRIs block the uptake of serotonin so it sticks around longer,” she says. But that won’t do much good if not much serotonin is around to begin with. In contrast, 5-HTP is converted into serotonin in the body. “With 5-HTP, you are not plugging up the drain, so to speak; you are just putting more into the sink,” says Baker. A six-week study of 63 people found that those who took 300 mg daily of 5-HTP had the same depression relief as those who took prescription antidepressants-but with fewer side effects.
-Source: http://www.thebetterhealthstore.com/012910_top-5-anti-depression_04.html
Quercetin
Have you ever wondered what makes a “superfood” super? Or what key superfoods like red wine, green tea, kale and blueberries all have in common? The answer is quercetin, a natural compound tied to what all of us seek: better longevity, heart health, endurance, immune system and more.
Research shows that anti-inflammatory foods containing quercetin can help manage a number of inflammatory health problems, including heart disease and blood vessel problems, allergies, infections, chronic fatigue, and symptoms related to autoimmune disorders like arthritis. -Source: https://draxe.com/quercetin/
“Quercetin has been found to powerfully stabilize mast cells, helping prevent stress-induced anxiety and allergic reactions. A chain of recent discoveries helps place the significance of these discoveries in context, with far ranging implications for human health, and improved nerve tolerance for managing stress.”
“Another new study shows that stress turns up the volume on mast cells3, priming them to release inflammatory chemicals that are typically involved with allergies, asthma, skin conditions, and digestive problems. Furthermore, the communication coming from mast cells feeds back to nerves, and modulates behaviour through a sense of anxiety.” –Source: https://www.wellnessresources.com/news/quercetin-skin-issues-and-stress
L-Tryptophan for Anxiety and Stress Relief
One of the most useful benefits Tryptophan for anxiety provides is mood regulation, through the production of the neurotransmitter Serotonin. Supplementing with L-Tryptophan and its by-product 5-HTP may improve mood and relieve stress.
Once consumed, L-Tryptophan is converted into 5-HTP (5-hydroxytryptophan) and other metabolites in the liver. 5-HTP, which is also available as a mood supplement, travels through the blood stream to the brain. Once there, it is able to cross the blood-brain barrier.
In the brain, 5-HTP is converted into Serotonin, the neurotransmitter most commonly associated with the regulation of mood.
In addition to the role it plays in regulating mood, Serotonin is also converted into the hormone Melatonin. Melatonin is a sleep-regulating neurotransmitter that controls the sleep/wake cycle (circadian rhythm).
During the day, the brain produces more Serotonin, and Melatonin production is very low. When light levels drop at dusk, Serotonin is converted more readily into Melatonin, and levels rise in the body.
Melatonin helps you stay asleep throughout the night and wake feeling rested. This may help to control anxious thoughts during the day.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/l-tryptophan-anxiety/
Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA)
What is it? Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) is a chemical made in the brain and often taken as a supplement to relieve anxiety, improve mood, reduce PMS symptoms, and treat symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Does it work? There’s limited evidence to suggest that orally-administered GABA supplements can help promote relaxation and immunity and reduce anxiety during times of stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
GABA is a highly important element in the brain. Essentially, it plays a key role in regulating the depressive neuroactivity in the human brain. In other words, it’s responsible for helping your mind switch from “work mode” to “relaxation mode”. It also plays a role in sedative changes in the brain, which are key to falling asleep at night.
How GABA helps reduce stress: GABA, in supplement form, is used for its relaxation-inducing effects, and to help relieve stress. It has also been shown to help improve mood, which can also lead to less stress in the future. Essentially, it works by blocking brain signals that incite anxiety and stressful feelings, allowing the brain to remain calm and inducing relaxation.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Skullcap Extract
Skullcap herb is an amazing plant for stress, tension, anxiety, nervousness and panic attacks. If I were pressed to simply list one application for skullcap it would be its ability to relieve stress and anxiety. It works well in acute situations and can be taken over time to decrease chronic stress (along with lifestyle modifications of course).
It works well for acute and sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks. For people susceptible to sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks, fresh skullcap tincture can be kept on them at all times.
Experienced herbal medic, Sam Coffman, shares his reliance on skullcap herb for shock-related anxiety.
Skullcap (Scutellaria spp.) and Passionflower are two that have never failed me as a formula to help someone cope quickly with shock-related anxiety. – Sam Coffman, Plant Healer Magazine 11
Not just for acute cases, skullcap can be taken over time as a nerve tonic to support nervous system health in people who have been through prolonged periods of stress and feel like their nerves are constantly on edge.
-Source: http://www.herbalremediesadvice.org/skullcap-herb.html
Ashwaghanda
I hold Ashwaghanda very high on my personal list of most effective herbs against anxiety. Ashwaghanda’s main use is to help the adrenals adjust to stress in our daily lives. It basically produces stress hormones when you need them, and stops producing them when you don’t need them, how cool is that! But the benefits of Ashwaghanda don’t end there, this ‘magic herb’ as I like to call it improves your immune function and greatly improves sleep.
-Source: https://anxietyexit.com/best-anxiety-supplements/
Promotes Graceful Aging
Stress, both metabolic and emotional, dramatically affects aging. Cortisol, the body’s stress hormone, contributes to muscle loss and weakness, wrinkles, and cognitive impairment. Research has found that Ashwagandha improves resistance to stress, possibly decreasing cortisol production. [1] One study of 64 individuals observed a reduction in stress and a significant decrease in cortisol levels in individuals taking Ashwagandha compared with placebo.
Menopausal Support
Ashwagandha acts on the endocrine system by encouraging hormone balance. A study involving 51 menopausal women supplementing with Ashwagandha noted a significant reduction in symptoms such as hot flashes, anxiety, and mood. [2]
Mood Booster
Ashwagandha is a known mood-boosting herb, and research suggests that the therapeutic plant may play a potential role in fighting mood imbalance. [6] Women battling mood swings may benefit from supplementing with Ashwagandha.
Sexual Potency
The Kama Sutra, one of the oldest surviving texts on human sexuality, mentions Ashwagandha in its literature as a potent sexual stimulant for both men and women. Research indicates that the herb supports sexual health and vitality by increasing blood flow and reducing bodily tension. Women taking Ashwagandha typically experience an increase in sexual desire and satisfaction.
Memory Support
Recent research has shown that Ashwagandha reduces memory impairment in animal models. The herb may also protect the brain from the oxidative stress that leads to neurodegeneration. Relaxation, a benefit derived from the herb’s stress-fighting effects, also improves long-term visual memory. [3] [4]
Revitalization
Another benefit many women report after taking this herb is in regards to energy levels. This anecdotal evidence is supported by scientific investigation; a recent study reported Ashwagandha’s benefits for improving energy while reducing stress-related disorders. [5]
Fertility
Stress, illness, hormone imbalance, and nutrient deficiencies — all of these issues threaten female reproductive health and make it difficult for a woman to conceive. Research shows that Ashwagandha supports thyroid function, an organ responsible for regulating hormones. [7] Also, by decreasing stress, Ashwagandha may encourage a situation that is optimal for fertility. [8] More research is needed to clarify whether or not Ashwagandha is effective for helping infertile females struggling to conceive.
-Source: https://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/7-amazing-benefits-of-Ashwagandha-root-for-women/
Bacopa monnieri
Bacopa monnieri is an herbal nootropic, a plant-based supplement that boosts brain power and reduces anxiety naturally. Bacopa monnieri is one of the oldest and most well-respected nootropic supplements. A traditional Ayurvedic medicine, sometimes referred to as Brahmi, has centuries of history as a potent cognitive enhancer, stress reliever, and brain protectant.
Bacopa monnieri is used to improve memory formation and speed of recall, make learning faster and easier, enhance clarity of thought, and augment overall brain function. It is also believed to act as a brain protectant, and studies show that it has potential as a treatment for dementia.
Bacopa has also been shown to have significant anxiolytic or anti-anxiety effects, producing a feeling of calmness and tranquility and reducing feelings of stress. Users report that it is an excellent general relaxant and can improve the quality of sleep, so they wake feeling rested and refreshed.
-Source: https://www.braintropic.com/nootropics/bacopa-monnieri/
Valerian Root
What is it? Valerian is an herb commonly used to treat insomnia, anxiety, and stress. Although it’s considered safe for most adults, the effects of long-term use are unknown. Short-term side effects include headaches and sluggishness in the morning, especially if taken at higher doses.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Some herbal supplements reduce anxiety without making you sleepy (such as L-theanine), while others are sedatives. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) is squarely in the second category. It is a sleep aid, for insomnia. It contains sedative compounds; the German government has approved it as a treatment for sleep problems.
Valerian smells kind of nasty, so most people take it as a capsule or tincture, rather than a tea. If you want to try it, take it in the evening—not before you go to work! Valerian is often combined with other sedative herbs such as hops, chamomile, and lemon balm.
-Source: http://www.health.com/health/gallery/0,,20669377,00.html#valerian-2
Valerian is a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from tension and anxiety, or have a tendency to get easily over-excited and/or hysterical. It is very calming but is unlikely to make you sleepy (although I wouldn’t suggest taking large quantities and then driving) and you can use it without any worries about getting addicted to it. If you have trouble sleeping, try taking valerian an hour or so before you go to bed. If your body gets so tense that you experience pain, taking valerian can help to relieve the discomfort. –Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Passionflower
Studies have shown that passionflower lowers anxiety in mice, but only one study has been carried out in humans, according to Lenz. That randomized, placebo-controlled study was done in 2001 in patients with general anxiety disorder, and found that 45 drops of liquid passionflower daily was as effective in treating the disorder as the drug oxazepam. Still, more research on its safety and effectiveness is needed, Lenz wrote in his study.
-Source: https://www.livescience.com/16975-herbal-supplements-stress-reduction.html
Passion flower is extremely useful if you suffer from long term insomnia. It can be taken over a long period of time. It helps you get to sleep, sleep well and wake up without any of the heavy feeling of some sleeping tablets. It has a generally tranquillizing effect. It can help to relieve restlessness, irritability, nervous stress and anxiety and can also be used where great tension is causing spasms in the body as it is also an antispasmodic. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Hops Extract
Hops work as a central nervous system relaxant. This makes them a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from insomnia and the stress states caused by not getting enough sleep. Hops help to relieve tension and anxiety and are helpful in reducing restlessness. Hops have a strong muscle relaxing effect so if being stressed gives you headaches, indigestion, stomach pains, palpitations or a nervous cough, then taking hops, especially in the form of a tincture, could prove very helpful for you.
-Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Chamomile Extract
Chamomile is a mild relaxant and sedative. A cup of chamomile tea before bed can help you to fall asleep easily and sleep well. Like lemon balm, it also has anti-spasmodic properties. This is a wonderful tea for children. It can be slightly bitter so sweeten it with a little honey if you like. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Recent clinical and laboratory research has determined that chamomile is not only relaxing, but it can significantly decrease anxiety and even fight depression.
The most recent study, from the UK’s University of Nottingham Medical School, found that chamomile significantly relaxed blood vessels and smooth muscle fibers. This effect was indicated specifically with the application of three of chamomile’s central constituents, apigenin, luteolin and bisabolol – all hydroxylates.
The fact that chamomile is an anti-anxiety and anti-depression herb was cemented by a clinical study at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. This study was done in 2009, but its data and findings were re-investigated and confirmed last year.
The researchers enlisted 19 people diagnosed with anxiety with depression, along with 16 people who were diagnosed as having a history of anxiety and depression. These groups were studied along with a control group of 22 people who had no anxiety or depression – past or present.
The study was randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled. The researchers gave the subjects either 220 milligrams of chamomile extract (standardized to 1.2% apigenin) or a placebo study, both in capsules.
The researchers found that 57% of the group using the chamomile extract had significantly reduced (greater than 50%) anxiety scores using the HAM-A system.
-Source: https://www.realnatural.org/chamomile-relaxes-fights-anxiety-and-depression/
Melatonin
What is it? A hormone produced by the brain’s pineal gland, melatonin helps control sleep cycles. Because sleep and mood are closely connected, supplementing with melatonin can alleviate stress. It’s considered safe, but can cause side effects like headaches, short-term feelings of depression, dizziness, and irritability.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Generally, people use Melatonin supplements to help with sleep disorders, such as primary insomnia. It also used for a variety of health conditions that include bipolar disorder, dementia, depression, endometriosis and anxiety.
Melatonin is a hormone made by the brain to regulate sleep cycles, but it can also play a role in mood and anxiety. It helps to control the level of stimulation and activity experienced by the body, and demonstrates anxiolytic effects.
If you have anxiety, melatonin may help make it easier to fall asleep at night, since insomnia is a common side effect of this mood disorder. It can also improve depression symptoms in patients with both anxiety and depression.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/melatonin-for-anxiety/
Theanine (L. Theanine) (Found in Green Tea)
There’s been a resurgence of interest in the anxiety-relieving powers of L-theanine, an amino acid found in green tea.1
Discoveries over the past two years have uncovered exciting additional properties of this nutrient best known for inducing calming, tranquilizing effects while simultaneously improving alertness.
L-theanine relieves anxiety in large part because it bears a close resemblance to the brain-signaling chemical glutamate. L-theanine produces the opposite effect in the brain.
While glutamate is the brain’s most important excitatory neurotransmitter, L-theanine binds to the same brain cell receptors and blocks them to glutamate’s effects. This action produces inhibitory effects.1,2 That inhibition to brain overactivity has a calming, relaxing effect in which anxiety fades.3
In addition to blocking excitatory stimuli at glutamate receptors in the brain, L-theanine also stimulates production of the inhibitory, relaxing neurotransmitter GABA, adding to its calming, anti-anxiety effects.2
Unlike prescription anti-anxiety drugs, however, some of which mimic GABA’s effects, L-theanine produces its anti-anxiety effects without producing sleepiness or impairing motor behavior.4 In fact, L-theanine has been shown in human studies to moderately improve alertness and attention while exerting its anxiety-reducing effects.5
Of particular interest are studies showing that L-theanine supplementation prevents the abrupt rise in blood pressure that some people experience under stress.1 The reason this is so critical is that many people have normal blood pressure readings at rest that spike up to dangerously high levels when subjected to stressful situations.
There’s a link between anxiety, reaction to stress, and the brain’s most fundamental function, maintaining cognition. Studies over the past two years suggest a potential role for L-theanine in supporting cognitive function and preventing its loss.
-Source: http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2016/3/brain-benefits-of-l-theanine/page-01
How L-theanine helps reduce stress: Primarily, L-theanine helps to relax the body and mind, without having sedative effects. So, it’s a great way to help manage stress, and you can use it during the day because it won’t cause drowsiness. Theanine supplements may also help to reduce the perception of stress and help you stay in a more positive mindset. Theanine has also been shown to work synergistically with other supplements, including caffeine. Research has shown a combination of 200mg of theanine with 200mg of caffeine promotes significant improvements in cognition and attention.
Many people consider L-theanine a way to “take the edge off”, so to speak. Particularly when used in combination with stimulants, like caffeine, the relaxing-but-not-sedative effects of L-theanine really come into play. Also, while most people drink caffeine on a daily basis, few people know that coffee and caffeinated beverages can actually worsen anxiety and stress symptoms. But when combined with L-theanine, you shouldn’t experience any negative effect from the caffeine, and you can still enjoy that helpful pick-me-up from a cup of coffee, combined with the calming effects of the amino acid supplement.
http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Vitamin B-12
Vitamin B12 benefits your mood, energy level, memory, heart, skin, hair, digestion and more. Vitamin B12 is also an essential vitamin for addressing adrenal fatigue, multiple metabolic functions — including enzyme production, DNA synthesis and hormonal balance — and maintaining healthy nervous and cardiovascular systems.
Because of its wide-reaching roles within the body, a vitamin B12 deficiency can show up in many different negative symptoms, many of which are very noticeable, such as potential chronic fatigue, mood disorders like depression, and chronic stress or feeling run down. Vitamin B12, sometimes also called cyanocobalamin, also helps with digestion and heart health.
Vitamin B12 benefits the central nervous system in many important ways: It helps maintain the health of nerve cells — including those needed for neurotransmitter signalling — and helps form the protective covering of nerves, called the cell’s myelin sheath. This means that when vitamin B12 levels are low, almost every cognitive function can suffer.
-Source: https://draxe.com/vitamin-b12-benefits/
Vitamin D3
There is evidence that stress, fatigue, and depression are connected to low serum levels of vitamin D, in addition to known immunity, illness and disease issues.
Dr. Lipman is the founder of the Eleven Eleven Wellness Center in NYC. He lists fatigue, restless sleep and poor concentration among other symptoms of vitamin D deficiency. Over 80% of his clients are vitamin D deficient, which correlates with the general population epidemic. [1]
Dr. Anna Dorothea Hoeck, MD, from Cologne, Germany, has treated fatigue with vitamin D therapy, using the 25(OH)D3 test first, then boosting those readings accordingly.
She has discovered with actual clinical treatments that those with lower levels of chronic fatigue recovered quickly, while more severe cases required adding minerals with the vitamin, especially calcium and magnesium.
http://www.naturalnews.com/041772_vitamin_D_levels_stress_fatigue.html
Clinical Trials have proved Vitamin D3 to be superior to Vitamin D2
A 2011 Cochrane Database study highlighted the significant differences between the two and examined mortality rates for people who supplemented their diets with Vitamin D2, versus those who did so with Vitamin D3. The analysis of 50 randomised controlled trials, which included almost 100,000 participants, showed a 6% relative risk reduction among those who used D3, and a 2% relative risk increase among those who used D2.
Your body deals with the different types very differently
According to recent research, Vitamin D3 is approximately 85% better in raising and maintaining Vitamin D concentrations in the body and produces 200-300% greater storage of Vitamin D than Vitamin D2.
With either form your body must convert it into a more active form, and Vitamin D3 is converted 500 percent faster than Vitamin D2.
Vitamin D2 has a shorter shelf life and it binds poorly with proteins in your blood which further hinders its effectiveness.
-Source: https://www.justvitamins.co.uk/blog/is-vitamin-d-the-same-as-vitamin-d3/#.WaIaoygjHIU
Vitamin E
Vitamin E is important for strong immunity and healthy skin and eyes. In recent years, vitamin E supplements have become popular as antioxidants. These are substances that protect cells from damage.
Balances Hormones
Vitamin E can play a crucial role in balancing your endocrine and nervous systems, naturally working to balance hormones naturally. (5) Symptoms of a hormonal imbalance may include PMS, weight gain, allergies, urinary tract infections, changes in the skin, anxiety and fatigue.
Helps PMS Symptoms
Taking a vitamin E supplement two to three days before and two to three days after a menstrual period can reduce the cramping, anxiety and cravings and other PMS symptoms. Vitamin E can decrease pain severity and duration, and it can reduce menstrual blood loss. It does this by balancing your hormones naturally, and it helps keep your menstrual cycle regulated.
Important during Pregnancy for Growth and Development
Vitamin E is critical during pregnancy and for proper development in infants and children because it protects critical fatty acids and helps control inflammation.
Other vitamin E benefits include its role as an important fat-soluble vitamin that’s required for the proper function of many organs, enzymatic activities and neurological processes.
Source: https://draxe.com/vitamin-e-benefits/
Vitamin B-Complex
What is it? The vitamin B-complex refers to all of the known essential water-soluble vitamins except for vitamin C: thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), biotin, folic acid, and the cobalamins (B12). B vitamins are important for cell metabolism. Most people who eat a balanced diet should have adequate B vitamins, but a vegan diet or an immune disorder such as lupus can lead to B12 deficiencies.
Does it work? Some research indicates B-complex vitamins are linked to improved mood.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
How B vitamin complex helps to reduce stress: In several clinical trials, B vitamin complex supplements have shown great potential in reducing stress levels. Taking a b-vitamin daily helped patients to improve mood by improving the body’s natural production of serotonin and other neurotransmitters. It also helped to reduce levels of homocysteine, a toxic amino acid that can lead to many health issues down the road. B vitamins also play a key role in energy production, and as you likely know, stress is much easier to counter when you’re feeling energized.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Probiotic: L. Helveticus (Lactobacillus helveticus
Supplementation with the probiotic combination of Lactobacillus helveticus R0052 and Bifidobacterium longum R0175 is an evidence-based, biologically plausible approach to addressing symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress. Studies show favorable biochemical and behavioral changes in animals treated with the probiotic, and sharp and significant decreases in symptoms of depression and anxiety in human trials.
For anyone experiencing anxiety and/or depression, regular supplementation with this probiotic combination seems a natural and worthwhile practice. It is conceivable that such supplementation could reduce reliance on prescription medications and deliver freedom from the burdens of these common mental illnesses.
-Source: http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2016/3/safely-reduce-anxiety-and-mood-disorders/page-01
Glutamine
Glutamine supplements may have a beneficial effect on depression and patients suffering from depression may have lower levels of glutamine in their brains. If you experience high levels of stress, your body may need a higher amount of glutamine, as it is easily depleted by high levels of the stress hormone cortisol.
Depression Facts
Clinical depression occurs in several forms, including major depressive disorder, seasonal affective disorder, dysthymia and postpartum depression. According to NYU Langone Medical Center, depressive symptoms vary from person to person — some people experience just a few symptoms while others may experience a combination of many symptoms.
Some of the common symptoms of depression include feelings of low self-worth, irritability, sadness, a lowered mood, sleep problems, appetite changes, a decreased sex drive, fatigue, a lack of interest in activities you once enjoyed and, in some people, suicidal thoughts or gestures. Researchers believe a number of factors contribute to depressive disorders, including genetics, stressful life events, drug and alcohol addiction, lack of social support, medical illnesses and changes in brain chemistry.
Additionally, nutritional deficiencies can also cause depression. Although research on the benefits of glutamine for depression is limited, some people believe that it may help reduce depressive symptoms.
Clinical Evidence
A study published in the February 2007 issue of the “Archives of General Psychiatry,” a peer-reviewed journal published by the American Medical Association, found that depressed study participants had lowered levels of glutamine in their prefrontal brain tissue. However, most of the evidence confirming the benefits of glutamine supplementation on depression is anecdotal.
A systematic review published in 2002 in the “Medical Journal of Australia” states that only an uncontrolled experiment has been performed to verify the benefits of glutamine supplements on depression.
The experiment referred to is a study published in the July-August 1976 issue of the Belgian medical journal, “Acta Psychiatrica Belgica.” This study showed that l-glutamine supplementation showed antidepressant properties on adult study participants suffering from depression. However, more clinical research is needed to fully evaluate the potential benefit of glutamine supplementation on depression.
Considerations
Glutamine supplements are sold online and in health food stores in powder and capsule form. However, you should not use glutamine as a cure for depression or as a substitute for conventional medical care. -Source: http://www.livestrong.com/article/477074-glutamine-depression/
Chromium as Chromium AAC (Amino Acid Chelate)
Chelated chromium is a nutritional supplement that allows cells to receive and absorb blood sugar for energy, according to Source Naturals. Chelation is the process of bonding with amino acids. This bond allows the mineral content to stay intact, and it provides maximum assimilation into the body.
Chromium is also used for depression, Turner’s syndrome, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), lowering “bad” cholesterol, raising “good” cholesterol in people taking heart medications called beta blockers, metabolic syndrome, heart attack, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and binge eating disorder.
-Source: https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Chromium-HealthProfessional/
Phenylethylamine or PEA
PEA supplements are great for helping with the symptoms of anxiety. Since PEA is so good at increasing natural levels of dopamine, which is one of the ‘feel-good’ hormones, it is great at combatting negative feelings of anxiety.[7]
Low levels of dopamine are known to cause anxiety and depression, along with a number of other mental illnesses. Taking phenylethylamine boosts your dopamine levels.[8] Increased dopamine levels make you feel happier, calmer and more sensual.
Another great benefit is phenylethylamine for studying. By increasing catecholamines and dopamine, phenylethylamine give a clear focus and energy boost, associated with increases in cognitive power and learning capabilities.
-Source: https://liftmode.com/blog/people-use-phenylethylamine/
Phenylethylamine Benefits:
May significantly improve mood and produce overall feeling of well-being
Helpful for reducing high levels of stress and anxiety
Known to assist with those experiencing symptoms of depression
A common element used in treating anxiety and depression
Produces higher energy levels
Minimize fatigue that can often be associated with depression anxiety symptoms
Ability to increase Acetylcholine levels. Increased levels of this neurotransmitter will commonly result in faster memory recall and retention.
Many have reported improved attention span and overall learning aptitude.
Enhanced ability in focus and concentration
-Source: http://focushereandnow.com/nootropics/phenylethylamine/
Amylase
Stress is by far one of the worst things in the world for your health, particularly chronic stress. Research is showing that amylase can be a very helpful and accurate marker of stress levels.
One study looked at the whether or not the salivary enzyme alpha-amylase could indicate stress-reactive bodily changes. Researchers repeatedly measured salivary alpha-amylase and salivary cortisol as well as plasma catecholamines and cardiovascular activity before, during and after 30 young men underwent the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). Results indicated that salivary alpha-amylase is sensitive to psychosocial stress and may be a very helpful additional parameter for the measurement of stress in humans. (9)
-Source: https://draxe.com/amylase/
Wheat grass powder
Wheatgrass powder is made by freeze-drying, oven-drying or air-drying fresh wheatgrass. Adding wheatgrass to your diet is an effective way to get your quota of five to nine servings of fruits and vegetables a day, according to Illinois State University.
Restores pH Balance
Wheatgrass is an alkaline food supplement and it balances the body’s pH levels. Hence, it is beneficial for reducing the acidity in the blood and restoring its alkalinity (9).
Reduces Fatigue
Tiredness often symbolizes sleep deprivation and a weak immune system, which can be effectively treated with the help of wheatgrass. This amazing ingredient contains chlorophyll, which, apart from boosting our immune system, also assists in cell regeneration. This, in turn, helps heal our body and reduces fatigue. Additionally, chlorophyll helps boost our adrenal system, which is essential for the prevention of chronic fatigue.
Helps Improve Mood
Wheatgrass also helps uplift your mood in a number of ways; it is rich in vitamin K and magnesium. It boosts the adrenal system and helps your body deal with stress. Additionally, wheatgrass contains a good quantity of iron, the deficiency of which can cause fatigue that eventually worsens your mood. It also helps fight depression.
Increases Libido: Consuming wheatgrass powder regularly helps in enhancing the reproductive health of both men and women. It also increases vigor and helps in conception (21).
Is Good For The Liver
With its detoxifying properties, wheatgrass can revitalize your liver. In a study conducted in 2014, it has also been shown that having wheatgrass regularly can protect the liver from the harmful effects of alcohol. -Source: http://www.stylecraze.com/articles/benefits-of-wheatgrass-powder-for-skin-hair-and-health/
Magnesium
What is it? Magnesium is a mineral essential for nerve and muscle function. Although most people who eat a balanced diet get enough magnesium, an analysis of data from the 2005-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) found that a majority of Americans consume less than they should.
The supplement is considered safe, but side effects can include stomach upset, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea. Rarely, large doses can cause irregular heartbeat and low blood pressure.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Although it is found in several dietary sources, as well as included in most multivitamins, magnesium deficiency is extremely common. An estimated 57% of Americans do not get adequate magnesium in their diets, and that number is even higher in many other countries. A deficiency in magnesium can cause all sorts of health problems, and can worsen stress and anxiety. The good news is that it’s easy to fix magnesium deficiency by changing your diet or adding a supplement.
http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Ginger Root Extract
Ginger Increases Brain Levels of Important Neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are chemicals used by brain cells to communicate with each other. They control your ability to focus, concentrate, and remember, and regulate mood, cravings, addictions, sleep, and more.
It’s estimated that 86% of Americans have suboptimal levels of neurotransmitters. (13) Ginger increases levels of these important brain chemicals, including dopamine and serotonin. (14) Dopamine is considered the “motivation molecule” that helps you get focused and be productive. It’s also in charge of your pleasure-reward system. Serotonin is your “happiness molecule” that is critical for keeping up a positive mood.
Ginger Root Reduces Adrenal Fatigue
Overwhelming tiredness is not the only symptom of adrenal fatigue. Other symptoms include brain fog, depression, anxiety, insomnia, and an inability to handle stress. (29)
Dr. Michael Lam is an expert on adrenal fatigue syndrome and the author of Adrenal Fatigue Syndrome – Reclaim Your Energy and Vitality with Clinically Proven Natural Programs.
He recommends ginger root along with ginkgo and ginseng as part of his natural adrenal fatigue protocol. (30) These adaptogenic herbs strengthen the adrenals, increase resilience to stress, and modulate levels of the stress hormone cortisol. -Source: https://bebrainfit.com/ginger-root-benefits/
Licorice Root
There is research that shows that the Glycyrrhizic acid that is in licorice root can help with nervousness and depression by encouraging the function of the adrenal glands. Our adrenal glands control stress hormones including cortisol. When one’s stress hormone levels are low it can often be the cause of persistent fatigue, melancholy, anxiety, and having less resistance to infections and allergens. Licorice root also happens to also have the Asparagine amino acid that is needed to preserve equilibrium in the body’s nervous system.
-Source: http://www.naturalalternativeremedy.com/nine-health-benefits-of-licorice-root/
Eleuthero root extract
Some of the most important health benefits of eleuthero include its ability to help relieve stress, increase cognitive function, boost the immune system, reduce fatigue, lower inflammation, protect heart health, prevent degenerative diseases, boost respiratory health, and increase energy levels.
Reduce Fatigue
One of the major claims to fame for eleuthero is its ability to boost energy levels. This is accomplished by its impact on the nervous system, boosting the metabolism, increasing circulation, and reducing cloudiness and fatigue. For people who regularly need naps during the day, feel the mid-day exhaustion following a large meal, or find themselves tired without a good explanation, regular supplementation with eleuthero can get you back to normal.
Stress Relief
Eleuthero is considered an adaptogen, one of those rare herbs that can actually help your body adapt and change to better handle various stimuli or conditions. For example, eleuthero has been shown to improve user response to stress, namely in the way that their body responds when anxious or upset. Eleuthero’s powerful components actually teach the body to handle bio-chemical situations in the best way possible.
A Final Word of Warning
There is some controversy about the various applications of eleuthero, and it’s important to understand the risks. If you suffer from certain mental conditions (mania or insomnia) or hormone-related disorders, it can be dangerous to take eleuthero. Also, in the case of heart conditions, diabetes, or cancer, eleuthero use can be beneficial, but only under the strict guidance of your medical provider. This is a very powerful herb and can have complex interactions with other drugs, so caution and consultation is highly recommended.
-Source: https://www.organicfacts.net/health-benefits/herbs-and-spices/eleuthero.html
Citrus Aurantium Extract (Bitter Orange)
Background and objectives
Reducing anxiety is very important before operation. Preoperative visit and use of premedication are popular methods to achieve this goal, but the role of anxiolytic premedication remains unclear and postoperative side-effects may result from routine premedication.
Citrus aurantium is used as an alternative medicine in some countries to treat anxiety, and recently the anxiolytic role of this medicinal plant was established in an animal model study. The aim of this study was to assess the anxiolytic effect of Citrus aurantium blossom on preoperative anxiety.
Methods
We studied 60 ASA I patients undergoing minor operation. In a randomized double-blind design, two groups of 30 patients received one of the following oral premedication two hours before induction of anesthesia: 1) Citrus aurantium blossom distillate 1 mL.kg-1 (C-group); 2) Saline solution 1 mL.kg-1 as placebo (P-group). Anxiety was measured before and after premedication using the Spielberger state-trait anxiety inventory (STAI-state) and the Amsterdam preoperative anxiety and information scale (APAIS) before operation.
Results
After premedication, both the STAI-state and the APAIS scales were decreased in C-group (p < 0.05); while exhibiting no significant changes in P-group.
Conclusions
Citrus aurantium blossom may be effective in terms of reduction in preoperative anxiety before minor operation.
-Source: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034709411700794
Aspartic Acid (Women’s Formula Only)
Aspartic acid, also known as L-aspartate, is thought to help promote a robust metabolism, and is sometimes used to treat fatigue and depression. Aspartic acid plays an important role in the citric acid cycle, or Krebs cycle, during which other amino acids and biochemicals, such as asparagine, arginine, lysine, methionine, threonine, and isoleucine, are synthesized.
Aspartic acid gets its reputation as a treatment for chronic fatigue from the crucial role it plays in generating cellular energy. Aspartic acid moves the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) molecules from the main body of the cell to its mitochondria, where it is used to generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the fuel that powers all cellular activity.
In short, the more NADH a cell has, the more chemical fuel it produces, and the more energy you have to get through your day. (Some studies have shown that aspartic acid actually increases both stamina and endurance levels in athletes.) In addition, this amino acid helps transport minerals needed to form healthy RNA and DNA to the cells, and strengthens the immune system by promoting increased production of immunoglobulins and antibodies (immune system proteins).
Aspartic acid keeps your mind sharp by increasing concentrations of NADH in the brain, which is thought to boost the production of neurotransmitters and chemicals needed for normal mental functioning. It also removes excess toxins from the cells, particularly ammonia, which is very damaging to the brain and nervous system as well as the liver.
-Source: http://www.vitaminstuff.com/amino-acid-aspartic-acid.html
Aspartic acid is used as a testosterone booster aging and infertile men. Men taking D-aspartic acid during the 90-day study dramatically improved sperm count and motility. As a result, they became more fertile and pregnancies increased among their partners. [7]
After taking D-aspartic acid for 12 days, participants increased lutheinizing hormone and testosterone levels by 33% and 42%, respectively.[8] These are just a few benefits of high testosterone levels:
Greater muscle growth and strength
Fat loss
Better sleep quality
High libido
Positive mood
More Energy
Aspartic Acid is also used by athletes as a temporary booster. Elevated testosterone levels only last a week to a week and a half in healthy men, with testosterone returning to normal afterward.
During the 1950s and 1960s, European researchers discovered a simple and inexpensive way to treat physical and mental fatigue — including the kind caused by chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).aspartic acidThey found that aspartic acid supplements could seriously boost stamina and alertness and benefit health in many ways.
It’s no wonder that scientists believe aspartic acid can cure CFS. In fact, CFS may result from a deficiency of aspartic acid, which lowers cellular energy — and subsequently decreases your stamina.
Aspartic acid is responsible for the production of cellular fuel. The more of it your body has, the more energy you have throughout your day.
A study published in The Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences in September of 2006 documented that additional energy was created when rats were dosed with aspartic acid. For the study, 2 groups of rats swam until metabolic exhaustion set in. Researchers noted that the exhaustion point for the group given aspartic acid arrived after a significantly longer swim time.
The results of the study indicate that aspartic acid will typically increase physical endurance. Recent studies conducted with human athletes support these conclusions.
The athletes who took mineral salt preparations of aspartic acid experienced greater aerobic competency. It also appeared that the mineral salts increased endurance and stamina levels overall.
Other studies showed that 75% to 94% of patients suffering fatigue due to a multitude of different causes experienced notable improvement when treated with aspartic acid.
In fact, in one study of 80 patients who had struggled with post-surgical fatigue for more than one year, one gram of potassium-magnesium aspartate twice daily brought more than 90% complete relief from all symptoms within 2 weeks.
-Source: http://undergroundhealthreporter.com/aspartic-acid-the-key-to-a-healthy-metabolism/
L-Serine (Women’s Formula Only)
The syndrome fibromyalgia is a chronic disorder that affects many people. It is characterised by diffuse tenderness, widespread pain, cognitive disturbance and fatigue. The exact causes of fibromyalgia are unknown, however people suffering from this condition have lower levels of serine in their blood compared with healthy people.
Source: http://aminoacidstudies.org/l-serine/
Recent research being done in Australia has led to the conclusion that people who suffer from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFIDS), especially those with more neurological symptoms, may actually have a treatable amino acid deficiency. At the February 1998 CFIDS conference in Sydney, doctors from Newcastle University in Callaghan, Australia, who have formed the Collaborative Pain Research Unit (CPRU), presented their intriguing discovery that a substantial number of CFIDS patients have a deficiency in the amino acid, serine.
Source: http://www.prohealth.com/library/showarticle.cfm?libid=428
D-serine vs. L-serine
This article includes references from studies using both enantiomers of serine. The two may have somewhat similar effects since L-serine is converted to D-serine by serine racemase, an enzyme that requires vitamin B6 to function. It is thus important to supplement vitamin B6 when supplementing L-serine.
Mood and Depression
D-serine produces both acute[1] and chronic[2] antidepressant effects in animal models. Chronic use was also reported to lower markers of anxiety. Studies have also shown that it may prevent cognitive impairment in subjects exposed to stressful situations[3] (like a job interview) but not in normal day-to-day situations. D-serine, therefore, does not strictly meet the definition of a nootropic. It is, however, ubiquitous in the body, and with many interesting effects in promoting cerebral health, certainly a worthy supplement.
-Source: https://nootropix.com/sarcosine-d-serine/
White Tea Extract
White tea flavonoids and Caffeine can ease depression by stimulating release of hormones in brain and thus reduce stress.
This remarkable tea has also been shown to fight free radicals from sun, stress and poor diet, and reverse some of the signs of aging. According to a study by Kingston University in London, it seems that white tea may be an interesting option for reducing and preventing wrinkles. Out of 21 different compounds tested, white tea was found to contain by far the highest concentration of antioxidants.
Is there anything this tea doesn’t help improve? Well, let’s see here, white tea may also reduce blood sugar and lessen the symptoms of diabetes. This astounding tea has shown to reduce stress and yet increase energy levels. Now who doesn’t want to have more energy throughout the day?
-Source: https://draxe.com/health-benefits-of-white-tea/
Satiereal™ Saffron Extract (crocus):
Satiereal is the name given to an extract from saffron. The extract is called Crocus Sativus.
“Modern pharmacological studies have demonstrated that saffron extract or its constituents have antidepressant,[51] anti-inflammatory,[10] anti-tumor effects, radical-scavenging, learning and memory improving properties.[52–54]”
-Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3249922/
“In a 2005 study of women who were depressed, 45 women were randomly given 30 mg of saffron or a placebo for 6 weeks. Women getting the saffron (Crocus sativus, which is what Satiereal comes from) scored better on depression questioners compared to women who got the placebo.”
“Several other studies exist, which also hint that saffron can help mild to moderate depression too.” -Source: https://supplement-geek.com/thrive-patch-review/
Ginkgo leaf extract
Ginkgo’s been widely studied for its effective anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, platelet-forming and circulation-boosting effects. According to current research, ginkgo biloba benefits include improved cognitive function, positive mood, increased energy, improved memory and reduced symptoms related to multiple chronic diseases — for instance, it’s been used as an asthma natural remedy, ADHD natural remedy and dementia treatment. In fact, it’s believed to be so effective that it’s even a prescription herb in Germany! -Source: https://draxe.com/ginkgo-biloba-benefits/
Phosphatidylserine
What is it?: Phosphatidylserine (PS) occurs naturally in the body and supports cellular function, especially in the brain. Although the supplement form is considered safe for most adults and children, it can cause side effects like insomnia and stomach upset, particularly at doses over 300 mg.
Does it work?: Some research suggests that athletes taking PS during strenuous training might experience less muscle soreness, but there are conflicting results. One study found preliminary evidence that a combination of soy-based PS and lecithin may moderate the body’s reaction to stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Lemon Balm
What is lemon balm: Lemon balm, known formally as melissa officinalis, is a herbal plant that is often used in herbal teas and supplements. It’s known for its calming, relaxing effects, and is a favourite amongst those seeking an all-natural way to help inspire relaxation.
It has mild sedative effects for some people, but they are mellow enough that this herb can be taken during the day. Lemon balm has been used for centuries in traditional medicine from several ancient cultures. Its positive effects have been proven in many clinical trials, and it’s gentle, all-natural makeup makes it a great product to try.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Kava
What is kava: Kava, otherwise known as kava kava or piper methysitcum, is the root of a pepper found naturally in the Pacific Islands. For generations, it has been used as a ceremonial drink by Pacific Islanders. It has significant anxiety-reducing effects.
In several studies, supplemental kava has been shown to offer potent relaxing qualities. This is why we added it to this guide to the best stress supplements. This ancient remedy is relevant as ever in the modern age, and when used properly, can do wonders for your stress and anxiety levels.
How kava helps reduce anxiety: In clinical trials, kava has been shown to elevate mood, induce relaxation, and improve stress management. Kava root contains natural compounds known as kavalactones, which have psychoactive effects on the brain, helping to provide a natural, narcotic-free way to reduce anxiety. Kava may also be useful in treating insomnia, menopausal mood swings, and several other health concerns.
-Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
St. John’s Wort
In one study of 40 patients with social anxiety disorder, taking St. John’s wort for two weeks seemed to slightly improve anxiety symptoms; however, the difference between the groups in the study may have been due to chance, and the study itself was poorly designed, according to Lenz.
Many herbal supplements are sedatives and should not be taken with other sedative drugs or alcohol, Lenz said.
-Source: https://www.livescience.com/16975-herbal-supplements-stress-reduction.html
Guarana
“Guarana acts on the central nervous system to prevent fatigue and break down lactic acid from muscle stress. Guarana also discourages blood clots, stimulates the urinary system, and promotes production of digestive juices. Guarana was used to treat diarrhea, decrease fatigue, reduce hunger, and to help arthritis. Guarana has been thought as a high energy source that increases mental alertness, slows the pulse, decreases the appetite, fights fatigue, an excellent mood elevator.” –Source: https://www.practo.com/healthfeed/8-benefits-of-eating-guarana-3438/post
Guarana is marketed as the rocket fuel behind energy drinks and demonised as a dangerous form of supercharged caffeine, but what’s the naked truth to this Brazilian herb?
Guaraná contains caffeine, the stimulant found in coffee, tea, yerba mate, colas and chocolate. “Guaraná also contains a whole mix of other compounds that act together to stimulate you over and above its caffeine content,” says Professor Stephen Myers, Director of NatMed-Research at Southern Cross University.
In fact, at the University of Tasmania a study comparing the effects of coffee, guaraná and yerba mate showed that guaraná produced the greatest alertness and improvement in the performance of mental tasks. Coffee produced a peak in alertness after about 30-45 minutes then rapidly fell away, while the effects of guaraná were still continuing – and increasing – after 150 minutes. “There might be substances in guaraná that delay the metabolism of caffeine or slows the absorption of caffeine to prolong its effect,” Professor Myers explains.
Like other forms of caffeine, guaraná may interact with certain medications, and too much guaraná carries all the risks associated with high levels (over 300mg) of caffeine – insomnia, trembling, anxiety, dehydration and palpitations. Unlike coffee, however, laboratory tests have shown no evidence of toxicity even in large doses, but guaraná should be avoided during pregnancy and lactation, or when there is high blood pressure.
-Source: http://www.bodyandsoul.com.au/health/health-news/health-benefits-of-guarana/news-story/9425c1e8cd9d759c26a10b8f8d292cde
Garcinia Cambogia
Garcinia cambogia (GC) is a small pumpkin-shaped fruit that grows in Southeast Asia and India. The key active ingredient found in garcinia cambogia is Hydroxycitric Acid (HCA), which some research suggests can help certain people lose weight. Developing research suggests that HCA might prevent fat storage, control appetite, and increase exercise endurance.
This weight loss supplement does more than just inhibit fat development. It also affects the brain. It is important to understand how garcinia cambogia improves your mood and how this affects weight loss.
The main ingredient in Garcinia Cambogia is called Hydroxycitric Acid, or HCA. HCA affects the body in a few different ways. It prevents your body from storing unused carbohydrates as fat that could add to your weight.
It also creates a full sensation while eating so that it becomes easier to consume fewer calories while dieting. The third important effect is that the HCA in Garcinia Cambogia increases the production of serotonin in the brain. Higher levels of serotonin have been proven to improve mood over time.
Serotonin is a key neurotransmitter in the brain. It is responsible for several things. Serotonin helps to regulate many functions in the body. It also allows messages to pass freely through the brain. Low levels of serotonin can lead to lethargic behavior, depression and anxiety. These factors can put you in a bad mood regardless of what is really happening around you.
Taking Garcinia Cambogia regularly will naturally stimulate the production of serotonin in your brain. You will begin to feel emotionally better. You will have fewer problems with depression, anxiety and feelings of hopelessness.
-Source: http://garciniacambogiaexpert.com/how-does-garcinia-cambogia-improve-your-mood/
Fish Oil
Neuroscientist, Dr. Andrew Stoll, from Harvard Medical School has found that natural sources of the essential fatty-acid, omega-3, which is found in oily fish like salmon and mackerel, can help bring mood back into balance.
-Source: https://anxietyexit.com/best-anxiety-supplements/
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
Is Your Thyroid Out of Balance?
Posted on July 2, 2017 by ihbPT
Is Your Thyroid Out of Balance?
Telltale Signs that Your Thyroid may be out of Balance:
Fatigue: If you are getting plenty of regular sleep but still wake up tired it is possible that your thyroid hormone level may be low. If your mind is constantly active and you cannot seem to sleep at night then you may have an over-active thyroid (hyperthyroidism). Either way, your thyroid hormones may well be out of balance.
Anxiety & Panic Episodes: If you suffer from mood swings, anxiety, panic episodes or depression, this can also be an indication of a thyroid disorder (hyperthyroidism).
Brain Fog: If you get days where you feel as though you’re walking around in a fog all day, your thyroid may be out of balance.
How’s Your Poop? Often people with an under active thyroid (hypothyroidism) complain of constipation, and those with an over active thyroid (hyperthyroidism) have the opposite; diarrhoea or more frequent sloppy bowel movements.
Weight Management Issues: If you’re eating habits have not changed, you exercise regularly but still cannot seem to remove stubborn excess weight, the cause may be an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism).
3 Fatty Acids in Coconut Oil that Your Thyroid Craves
The unique medium-chain fatty acid profile of coconut oil is what makes it stand apart from all other oils and gives it the ability to help the body self-regulate (something it is quite able to do).
These fatty acids, including lauric acid (found in a mother’s breast milk), are small enough that they can be gobbled up by the mitochondria in the cells. Because of this, they provide immediate energy for the body.
Lauric acid is converted to monolaurin, which is a potent antiviral, antibacterial, and antiprotozoal substance. Because monolaurin is a monoglyceride, it can destroy lipid-coated viruses including measles, influenza, HIV, herpes and a number of pathogenic bacteria.
Another fatty acid that coconut oil contains is caprylic acid, also found in breast milk. Also known as octanoic acid, this saturated fatty acid has a number of health promoting properties and the innate ability to treat yeast-like fungus in the intestines.
Capric acid is present in very small amounts in goat’s milk and cow’s milk, but is abundant in tropical oils, including coconut oil.
It is a medium-chain fatty acid that has potent antimicrobial and antiviral properties. In the body, capric acid is converted to monocaprin, a form that can readily fight viruses, bacteria, and the yeast Candida albicans.
Because of this unique combination of fatty acids, coconut oil suppresses inflammation and repairs tissue while inhibiting microorganisms that cause the inflammation in the first place.
Polyunsaturated oils are the real enemy and many people still prefer to cook with expeller-pressed or solvent-extracted oils. If you cook with vegetable oil, it is time to stop. These oils are only increasing inflammation in your body. If you have reason to believe that your thyroid may be working only half time for you, make the switch today to organic cold-pressed coconut oil.
Not all coconut oil is created equal… and some are better than others. As was the case when coconut oil was used heavily in the food processing industry years ago, there is still a lot of refined coconut oil in circulation. Obviously, the more processed the oil, the less health benefits it possesses. –Source: http://pages.thealternativedaily.com/alerts-click-coconut-thyroid/
Other Natural Ways to Improve Thyroid Function
In addition to including coconut oil in your diet, try these other natural ways to balance your thyroid function.
Switch from iodized table salt to sea salt, as it has more minerals that help support better thyroid functioning.
Chronic stress is said to be one of the main triggers of hypothyroidism so practicing stress reduction techniques such as meditation and deep-breathing can help as can regular de-stress hypnotherapy sessions.
Follow a gluten-free diet has also been shown to improve thyroid function. Research has found a link between wheat allergies and thyroid disease.
Avoid chemicals like triclosan, which is commonly found in items like antibacterial soap, deodorant, lotions, and even in cutting boards.
.. this is especially important to correct thyroid function. Walking briskly for 30 minutes a day is a good place to start.
Supplement with probiotics, vitamins and minerals. Many natural herbs can also assist in weight management and bringing the body back into balance.
Take high-quality supplements, such as zinc, selenium, manganese, chromium, B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin A and vitamin E.
High Quality Supplementation
If supplementation is a constant battle for you, you may want to try the 8-week Thrive experience: the world’s only wearable nutrition. The products in the 8-week program include probiotics, vitamins, minerals and herb supplements all in the one easy-to-follow program. Ideal for weight management and increased energy… and helping you bring your body back into balance… Check it out by Clicking Here Before long, you will not only feel better, but you may be surprised at how well your pants fit!
Posted in Anxiety and Stress	| Tagged anxiety, brain fog, fatigue, panic attacks, stress, thyroid, weight loss, weight management	| Leave a comment |
Self-Hypnosis Downloads
This page is where you can access all our available self-hypnosis sessions. Just download and listen in the privacy of your own home.
Body Cleanse Stress Elimination Self-Hypnosis
To order just click the add to cart button below and you will be taken the checkout section to complete your purchase
$19.95 – Body Cleanse Stress Elimination Self-Hypnosis Session Checkout Added to cart
What is Stress and What Causes It?
Posted on January 27, 2017 by ihbPT
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that up to 90% of all illness and disease is due to stress.
Stress is your body’s way of responding to any kind of demand or threat. Signs of the body under stress include irritability, fatigue, high blood pressure, impaired sleeping and insomnia. The effects of stress can be emotional, psychological, and physical.
Constant stress, if not treated, can lead to changes in behaviour (emotional eating, smoking, increased alcohol consumption) and a precursor to anxiety disorders, depression, PTSD (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder) and many chronic illnesses in the body.
When you feel threatened, your nervous system responds by releasing a flood of stress hormones, including adrenaline and Cortisol, which activates the flight or fight centre of the brain (the amygdala) to rouse the body for emergency action.
Cortisol is a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal gland and secreted during a stress response. As a part of the body’s fight-or-flight response, Cortisol also acts to suppress the body’s immune system.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter thought to play an important role in mood regulation. Stress-induced serotonin dysfunctions have been associated with anxiety, fear and depression-like symptoms.
Stress can kill the good bacteria and yeast that live in your intestines and keep your immunity and digestive health strong. More research is showing how stress impacts the function of your gut every day.
It slows transit, leading to constipation and the re-circulation of hormones like estrogen through your liver. It increases the overgrowth of bad bacteria. And it loosens the barriers between the cells that line the intestines, creating something called leaky gut that then leads to inflammation, food sensitivities and even autoimmune disease.
Studies have also shown that the activity of hundreds of genes responsible for enzymes that break down fats and detoxify prescription drugs, are negatively impacted by stress. Stress can also increase your toxin burden by increasing your desire for high fat, high sugar foods.
Stress is the body’s reaction to any stimuli that disturbs its equilibrium. When the equilibrium of various hormones is altered the effect of these changes can be detrimental to the immune system.
Stress affects the immune system in many ways. The immune system protects the body from viruses, bacteria, and anything that is different or that the body does not recognize. The immune system sees these as intruders and it sends messages to attack. The white blood cells, leukocytes, are very important to the immune system.
The white blood cells, leukocytes, are very important to the immune system. These leukocytes produce cytokines which fight infections.[47] But they also are the immune systems communicator in telling the brain that the body is ill.
When an individual is stressed or going through a stressful experience the immune system starts to produce natural killer cells and cytokines.[48] When levels of cytokines are higher they combat infections and therefore the brain gets communicated the body is ill and it produces symptoms as if the individual was ill.
These symptoms include fever, sleepiness, low energy levels, no appetite, and flu like symptoms. These symptoms mean the body is fighting the illness or virus. This is useful for when the body goes through the stress from an injury.
But unfortunately, the body has now evolved to do this process during stressful events such as taking exams, or even going through a life changing event such as a death of a family member or a divorce. That is why many times when individuals are stressed because of life changing events or situations such as those, they get these symptoms and believe they are sick when in reality it can be because the body is under stress.
Both negative and positive stressors (endurance sports) can lead to stress, the intensity and duration of stress changes depending on the circumstances and emotional condition of the person suffering from it. Some common categories and examples of stressors include:
Sensory input such as pain, bright light, noise, temperatures, or environmental issues such as a lack of control over environmental circumstances, such as food, air and/or water quality, housing, health, freedom, or mobility.
Social issues can also cause stress, such as struggles with difficult individuals, social defeat, relationship conflict, deception, or break ups, and major events such as birth and deaths, marriage, and divorce.
Life experiences such as poverty, unemployment, clinical depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, heavy drinking or insufficient sleep can also cause stress. Students and workers may face performance pressure stress from exams and project deadlines.
Adverse experiences during development like prenatal exposure to maternal stress, poor attachment (abandonment) histories and sexual abuse) are thought to contribute to deficits in the maturity of an individual’s stress response systems.
Stages of Stress
Physiologists define stress as how the body reacts to a stressor (real or imagined) which is a stimulus that causes stress. Acute stressors affect an organism in the short term; chronic stressors over the longer term.
General Adaptation Syndrome (GAS), developed by Hans Selye, is a profile of how organisms respond to stress; GAS is characterized by three phases: a nonspecific mobilization phase, which promotes sympathetic nervous system activity; a resistance phase, during which the organism makes efforts to cope with the threat; and an exhaustion phase, which occurs if the organism fails to overcome the threat and depletes its physiological resources.
Stage One
Alarm is the first stage, which is divided into two phases: the shock phase and the anti-shock phase.
Shock phase: During this phase, the body can endure changes such as the stressor effect.
Anti-shock phase: When the threat or stressor is identified or realized, the body starts to respond (Cortisol) and is in a state of alarm (flight or fight).
Stage Two
Resistance is the second stage and increased secretion of glucocorticoids play a major role, intensifying the systemic response—they have lipolytic, catabolic and antianabolic effects: increased glucose, fat and amino acid/protein concentration in blood.
In high doses, Cortisol begins to act as a mineralocorticoid (the steroid hormone aldosterone which maintains salt level in the body) and brings the body to a state similar to hyperaldosteronism (excessive secretion of aldosterone).
If the stressor persists, it becomes necessary to attempt some means of coping with the stress. Although the body begins to try to adapt to the strains or demands of the environment, the body cannot keep this up indefinitely, so its resources are gradually depleted.
Stage Three
The third stage could be either exhaustion or recovery.
Recovery follows when the system’s compensation mechanisms have successfully overcome the stressor effect (or have completely eliminated the factor which caused the stress). The high glucose, fat and amino acid levels in blood prove useful for anabolic reactions, restoration of homeostasis and regeneration of cells.
Exhaustion is the alternative third stage in the GAS model. At this point, all of the body’s resources are eventually depleted and the body is unable to maintain normal function. The initial autonomic nervous system symptoms may reappear (sweating, raised heart rate, etc.).
If stage three is extended, long-term damage may result (prolonged vasoconstriction results in ischemia which in turn leads to cell necrosis), as the body’s immune system becomes exhausted, and bodily functions become impaired, resulting in decompensation.
The result can manifest itself in obvious illnesses, such as peptic ulcer and general trouble with the digestive system (e.g. occult bleeding, melena, constipation/obstipation), diabetes, or even cardiovascular problems (angina pectoris), along with clinical anxiety, panic attacks, depression and other mental illnesses.
Chronic Stress
Chronic stress is defined as a state of prolonged tension from internal or external stressors, which may cause various physical manifestations – e.g., asthma, back pain, arrhythmias, fatigue, headaches, HTN, irritable bowel syndrome, ulcers, and suppress the immune system.
Chronic stress takes a more significant toll on the body than acute stress does. It can raise blood pressure, increase the risk of heart attack and stroke, increase vulnerability to anxiety and depression, contribute to infertility, and hasten the aging process.
People in distressed marriages have also been shown to have greater decreases in cellular immunity functioning over time when compared to those in happier marriages.
Furthermore, during chronic stress, Cortisol is over produced, causing fewer receptors to be produced on immune cells so that inflammation cannot be ended.
Chronic stress has been shown to increase the thickness of the artery walls, leading to high blood pressure and heart disease.
Chronic stress also increases the production of Cortisol, leading to something called “Cortisol steal,” where fewer sex hormones are produced.
Chronic stress is seen to affect the parts of the brain where memories are processed through and stored. When people feel stressed, stress hormones get over-secreted, which affects the brain.
That is because stress releases Cortisol, and Cortisol causes metabolic activity throughout the body. Metabolic activity is raised in the hippocampus. High Cortisol levels can be tied to the deterioration of the hippocampus and decline of memory that many older adults start to experience with age.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
PTSD is a severe anxiety disorder that can develop after exposure to any event that results in psychological trauma. This event may involve the threat of death to oneself or to someone else, or to one’s own or someone else’s physical, sexual, or psychological integrity, overwhelming the individual’s ability to cope. As an effect of psychological trauma, PTSD is less frequent and more enduring than the more commonly seen acute stress response.
Diagnostic symptoms for PTSD include intrusion, avoidance and hyper-arousal — re-experiencing the original trauma(s) through “flashbacks” or nightmares (intrusion), emotional numbing or avoidance of stimuli associated with the trauma, and increased arousal, such as difficulty falling or staying asleep, anger, and hyper-vigilance.
Formal diagnostic criteria (both DSM-IV-TR and ICD-10) require that the symptoms last more than one month and cause significant impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning.
The areas of the brain affected in post-traumatic stress disorder are sensory input, memory formation and stress response mechanisms. The regions of the brain involved in memory processing that are implicated in PTSD include the hippocampus, amygdala and frontal cortex. While the heightened stress response is likely to involve the thalamus, hypothalamus and locus coeruleus.
Memory
Cortisol works with epinephrine (adrenaline) to create memories of short-term emotional events; this is the proposed mechanism for storage of flash bulb memories, and may originate as a means to remember what to avoid in the future. However, long-term exposure to Cortisol damages cells in the hippocampus; this damage results in impaired learning. Furthermore, it has been shown that Cortisol inhibits memory retrieval of already stored information.
Atrophy of the hippocampus in post traumatic stress disorder
There is consistent evidence from MRI volumetric studies that hippocampal volume is reduced in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This atrophy of the hippocampus is thought to represent decreased neuronal density. However, other studies suggest that hippocampal changes are explained by whole brain atrophy (partial or complete wasting away) and generalised white matter atrophy is exhibited by people with PTSD.
The psychiatric diagnosis post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was coined in the mid-1970s, in part through the efforts of anti-Vietnam War activists and the Vietnam Veterans against the War, and Chaim F. Shatan. The condition was added to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders as posttraumatic stress disorder in 1980.
PTSD was considered a severe and ongoing emotional reaction to an extreme psychological trauma, and as such often associated with soldiers, police officers, and other emergency personnel.
The stressor may involve threat to life (or viewing the actual death of someone else), serious physical injury, or threat to physical or psychological integrity including sexual abuse, domestic violence, workplace and schoolyard bullying, or a serious accident.
In some cases, it can also be from profound psychological and emotional trauma, apart from any actual physical harm or threat. Often, however, the two are combined.
Depression
Many areas of the brain appear to be involved in depression including the frontal and temporal lobes and parts of the limbic system including the cingulate gyrus. However, it is not clear if the changes in these areas cause depression or if the disturbance occurs as a result of the etiology (branch of medical science concerned with the causes and origins of diseases) of psychiatric disorders.
In depression, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis undergoes upregulation with a down-regulation of its negative feedback controls and Cortisol is released from the adrenal glands; adrenal hypertrophy (excessive growth) can also occur.
Release of Cortisol into the circulation has a number of effects, including elevation of blood glucose. The negative feedback of Cortisol to the hypothalamus, pituitary and immune system is impaired. This leads to continual activation of the HPA axis and excess Cortisol release. Cortisol receptors become desensitized leading to increased activity of the pro-inflammatory immune mediators and disturbances in neurotransmitter transmission.
Serotonin transmission from both the caudal raphe nuclei and rostral raphe nuclei is reduced in patients with depression compared with non-depressed controls. Increasing the levels of serotonin in these pathways, by reducing serotonin reuptake and hence increasing serotonin function, is one of the therapeutic approaches to treating depression.
In depression the transmission of noradrenaline is reduced from both of the principal noradrenergic centres – the locus coeruleus and the caudal raphe nuclei. An increase in noradrenaline in the frontal/prefrontal cortex modulates the action of selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibition and improves mood. Increasing noradrenaline transmission to other areas of the frontal cortex modulates attention.
How to Control and Reduce Stress
There are several ways of coping with stress such as controlling the source of stress or learning to set limits and to say “no” to some of the demands that bosses, partners or family members may make.
A way to control stress is first dealing with what is causing the stress… if it is something the individual has control over. Other methods to control stress and reduce it can be: to not procrastinate and leave tasks for last minute, do things you like, exercise, do breathing routines, go out with friends, and take a break. Having support from a loved one also helps a lot in reducing stress.
A person’s capacity to tolerate the source of stress may be increased by thinking about another topic such as a hobby, listening to relaxing music, spending time in nature, or participating in meditation or yoga classes.
Hypnotherapy is also a very powerful way to reduce stress build up in the body by teaching the body how to naturally handle and process stress.
-Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stress_(biology)
-Source: http://bodyecology.com/articles/top-5-sources-of-toxins.php
Posted in Anxiety and Stress	| Tagged anxiety, depression, domestic violence, hypnotherapy, panic attacks, post traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, remove stress, stress	| Leave a comment |
The Rewind Technique for PTSD is now Available in Port Macquarie
Posted on May 17, 2016 by ihbPT
The Rewind Technique breaks new ground in the treatment of acute psychological trauma and PTSD – the invisible injury – and is a proven, natural, safe and effective treatment that is non-drugs based.
What is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a natural emotional reaction to a deeply shocking and disturbing experience. It is a normal reaction to an abnormal situation.
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is defined in DSM-IV, the fourth edition of the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual. For a doctor or mental health professional to be able to make a diagnosis, the condition must be defined in DSM-IV or its international equivalent, the World Health Organization’s ICD-10.
In the previous version of DSM (DSM-III) a criterion of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder was for the sufferer to have faced a single major life-threatening event; this criterion was present because a) it was thought that PTSD could not be a result of “normal” events such as bereavement, business failure, interpersonal conflict, bullying, harassment, stalking, marital disharmony, working for the emergency services, etc, and b) most of the research on PTSD had been undertaken with people who had suffered a threat to life (eg combat veterans, especially from Vietnam, victims of accident, disaster, and acts of violence).
In DSM-IV the requirement was eased although most mental health practitioners continue to interpret diagnostic criterion A1 as applying only to a single major life-threatening event. There is growing recognition that Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can result from many types of emotionally shocking experience including an accumulation of small, individually non-life-threatening events in which case the resultant PTSD is referred to as Complex PTSD.
Who Can it Benefit?
Knowing why you suffer and being able to stop the suffering are two different things. People who are suffering from the following symptoms can expect success with the Rewind Technique:
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
Domestic Violence, Harassment and Stalking.
Sexual Abuse and Rape Victims.
Physical and Psychological Abuse.
Child Abuse (physical and psychological).
Natural Disasters.
Major Life-Threatening Event such as road, rail and aircraft accidents, physical assault, kidnapping, terror attack, hostage situations.
Loss of child through miscarriage, stillborn or at a young age.
Bereavement or Loss of a Loved One.
Interpersonal Conflict and Marital Disharmony.
School and Workplace Bullying- see http://innerhealthblog.com/bullying-post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/
Acute Stress due to working for the emergency services.
Acute Anxiety and Panic Attacks.
Business Failure.
Is it Safe?
The Rewind technique is totally safe. No harm can come to people by using this technique, unlike some other talking therapies where the trauma can be embedded deeper.
It is also safe for the Rewind practitioner. In other treatments, the practitioner’s can become traumatised by hearing a traumatic account or by repeatedly hearing traumatic experiences. Using Rewind, they do not need to hear or know any of the details to perform the treatment.
In addition, Rewind is non voyeuristic. A person who has been raped, for example, can undergo the treatment without, if they so wish, having to talk to the counsellor about any of the intimate details of the experience.
The technique works by allowing the traumatised individual, whilst in a safe and relaxed state to reprocess the traumatic memory in question so that it becomes stored as a ordinary, albeit unpleasant, and non-threatening memory, rather than one that continually activates a terror response.
Rewind is safe for the client, and the practitioner, because unlike counselling or debriefing there is no risk of re-traumatising the victim or traumatising the counsellor during treatment.
Employers have a responsibility to protect the psychological as well as the physical well being of their employees. Just as with physical hazards, employers are required to assess the psychological workplace risks that their employees face. Failure to put the proper infrastructure in place can leave an employer as open for compensation claims as for someone injured at work.
How Does The Rewind Technique Work
The individual who has suffered the traumatic event is asked to revisit it, but, most importantly from a detached and safe distance, watching the events unfold mentally through a television screen providing an emotional distance between themselves and the event in question.
It’s a common assumption that your thoughts determine your feelings, but actually your amygdala produces emotion before your thinking brain gets a look in. Strong feelings need to be quicker than thought for basic survival. The acute trauma sufferer doesn’t recall the event as a memory… they re-experience it. Resolving acute trauma needs to work with the preverbal unconscious responses.
Rewind is not counselling and trying to get someone who is deeply traumatised to ‘talk about it’ may only make it worse as ‘getting back into the memory’ re-traumatises the person (see http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12076399). It is essential to note that PTSD and trauma symptoms are not suitable for counselling; indeed talking therapies may embed the trauma further and possibly vicariously traumatise the counsellor.
For more information and to book a free initial consultation contact Paul Holcroft on 0424 671 411
Posted in Hypnotherapy	| Tagged anxiety, domestic violence, panic attacks, post traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, stress, trauma	| Leave a comment |
Associated Symptoms of Complex PTSD Bullying
Posted on May 17, 2016 by ihbPT
Survivor guilt: survivors of disasters often experience abnormally high levels of guilt for having survived, especially when others – including family, friends or fellow passengers – have died. Survivor guilt manifests itself in a feeling of “I should have died too”.
In bullying, levels of guilt are also abnormally raised. The survivor of workplace bullying may have developed an intense, albeit unrealistic, desire to work with their employer (or, by now, their former employer) to eliminate bullying from their workplace.
Many survivors of bullying cannot gain further employment and are thus forced into self-employment; excessive guilt may then preclude the individual from negotiating fair rates of remuneration, or asking for money for services rendered. The person may also find themselves being abnormally and inappropriately generous and giving in business and other situations.
Shame, embarrassment, guilt, and fear are encouraged by the bully, for this is how all abusers – including child sex abusers – control and silence their victims.
Marital disharmony: the target of bullying becomes obsessed with understanding and resolving what is happening and the experience takes over their life; partners become confused, irritated, bewildered, frightened and angry; separation and divorce are common outcomes.
Breakdown
The word “breakdown” is often used to describe the mental collapse of someone who has been under intolerable strain. There is usually an (inappropriate) inference of “mental illness”. All these are lay terms and mean different things to different people. I define two types of breakdown:
Nervous breakdown or mental breakdown is a consequence of mental illness.
Stress breakdown is a psychiatric injury, which is a normal reaction to an abnormal situation.
The two types of breakdown are distinct and should not be confused. A stress breakdown is a natural and normal conclusion to a period of prolonged negative stress; the body is saying “I’m not designed to operate under these conditions of prolonged negative stress so I am going to do something dramatic to ensure that you reduce or eliminate the stress otherwise your body may suffer irreparable damage; you must take action now”.
A stress breakdown is often predictable days – sometimes weeks – in advance as the person’s fear, fragility, obsessiveness, hyper-vigilance and hypersensitivity combine to evolve into paranoia (as evidenced by increasingly bizarre talk of conspiracy or MI6). If this happens, a stress breakdown is only days or even hours away and the person needs urgent medical help. The risk of suicide at this point is heightened.
Often the cause of negative stress in an organisation can be traced to the behaviour of one individual. The profile of this individual is on the serial bully page. I believe bullying is the main – but least recognised – cause of negative stress in the workplace today. To see the effects of prolonged negative stress on the body click here.
The person who suffers a stress breakdown is often treated as if they have had a mental breakdown; they are sent to a psychiatrist, prescribed drugs used to treat mental illness, and may be encouraged – sometimes coerced or sectioned – into becoming a patient in a psychiatric hospital.
The sudden transition from professional working environment to a ward containing schizophrenics, drug addicts and other people with genuine long-term mental health problems adds to rather than alleviates the trauma.
Words like “psychiatrist”, “psychiatric unit” etc are often translated by work colleagues, friends, and sometimes family into “nutcase”, “shrink”, “funny farm”, “loony” and other inappropriate epithets.
The bully encourages this, often ensuring that the employee’s personnel record contains a reference to the person’s “mental health problems”. Sometimes, the bully produces their own amateur diagnosis of mental illness – but this is more likely to be a projection of the bully’s own state of mind and should be regarded as such.
During the First World War, British soldiers suffering PTSD and stress breakdown were labelled as “cowards” and “deserters”. During the Second World War, soldiers suffering PTSD and stress breakdowns were again vilified with these labels; Royal Air Force personnel were labelled as “lacking moral fibre” and their papers stamped “LMF”. For further commentary on this issue, click here. It’s noticeable that those administrators and top brass enforcing this labelling were themselves always situated a safe distance from the fighting; see the section on projection.
The person who is being bullied often thinks they are going mad, and may be encouraged in this belief by those who do not have that person’s best interests at heart. They are not going mad; PTSD is an injury, not an illness.
Sometimes, the term “psychosis” is applied to mental illness, and the term “neurosis” to psychiatric injury. The main difference is that a psychotic person is unaware they have a mental problem, whereas the neurotic person is aware – often acutely.
The serial bully’s lack of insight into their behaviour and its effect on others has the hallmarks of a psychosis, although this obliviousness would appear to be a choice rather than a condition.
With targets of bullying, I prefer to avoid the words “neurosis” and “neurotic”, which for non-medical people have derogatory connotations. Hypersensitivity and hyper-vigilance are likely to cause the person suffering PTSD to react unfavourably to the use of these words, possibly perceiving that they, the target, are being blamed for their circumstances.
A frequent diagnosis of stress breakdown is “brief reactive psychosis”, especially if paranoia and suicidal thoughts predominate. However, a key difference between mental breakdown and stress breakdown is that a person undergoing a stress breakdown will be intermittently lucid, often alternating seamlessly between paranoia and seeking information about their paranoia and other symptoms. The person is also likely to be talking about resolving their work situation (which is the cause of their problems), planning legal action against the bully and the employer, wanting to talk to their union rep and solicitor, etc.
Transformation
A stress breakdown is a transformational experience which, with the right support, can ultimately enrich the life of the person experiencing it. However, completing the transformation can be a long and sometimes painful process.
The Western response – to hospitalise and medicalize the experience, thus hindering the process – may be well-intentioned, but may lessen the value and effectiveness of the transformation.
How would you feel if, rather than a breakdown, you viewed it as a breakthrough? How would you feel if it was suggested to you that the reason for a stress breakdown is to awaken you to your mission in life and to enable you to discover the reason why you have incarnated on this planet?
How would it change your view of things if it was also suggested to you that a stress breakdown reconfigures your brain to enable you to embark on the path that will culminate in the achievement of your mission? [More | More]
Differences between mental illness and psychiatric injury
The person who is being bullied will eventually say something like “I think I’m being paranoid…“; however they are correctly identifying hyper-vigilance, a symptom of PTSD, but using the popular but misunderstood word paranoia. The differences between hyper-vigilance and paranoia make a good starting point for identifying the differences between mental illness and psychiatric injury.
Our new page on Organised Gang Stalking and Mind Control explains the difference between “gang stalking”, a conspiracy theory, and bullying and other forms of abuse. The differences are analogous to the differences between paranoia and hyper-vigilance.
Paranoia Hypervigilance
paranoia is a form of mental illness; the cause is thought to be internal, e.g. a minor variation in the balance of brain chemistry is a response to an external event (violence, accident, disaster, violation, intrusion, bullying, etc) and therefore an injury
paranoia tends to endure and to not get better of its own accord wears off (gets better), albeit slowly, when the person is out of and away from the situation which was the cause
The paranoiac will not admit to feeling paranoid, as they cannot see their paranoia. the hyper-vigilant person is acutely aware of their hyper-vigilance, and will easily articulate their fear, albeit using the incorrect but popularised word “paranoia”
sometimes responds to drug treatment drugs are not viewed favourably by hyper-vigilant people, except in extreme circumstances, and then only briefly; often drugs have no effect, or can make things worse, sometimes interfering with the body’s own healing process
the paranoiac often has delusions of grandeur; the delusional aspects of paranoia feature in other forms of mental illness, such as schizophrenia the hyper-vigilant person often has a diminished sense of self-worth, sometimes dramatically so
the paranoiac is convinced of their self-importance the hyper-vigilant person is often convinced of their worthlessness and will often deny their value to others
paranoia is often seen in conjunction with other symptoms of mental illness, but not in conjunction with symptoms of PTSD Hyper-vigilance is seen in conjunction with other symptoms of PTSD, but not in conjunction with symptoms of mental illness
the paranoiac is convinced of their plausibility the hyper-vigilant person is aware of how implausible their experience sounds and often doesn’t want to believe it themselves (disbelief and denial)
the paranoiac feels persecuted by a person or persons unknown (e.g. “they’re out to get me”) the hyper-vigilant person is hyper-sensitized but is often aware of the inappropriateness of their heightened sensitivity, and can identify the person responsible for their psychiatric injury
sense of persecution heightened sense of vulnerability to victimisation
the sense of persecution felt by the paranoiac is a delusion, for usually no-one is out to get them the hyper-vigilant person’s sense of threat is well-founded, for the serial bully is out to get rid of them and has often coerced others into assisting, e.g. through mobbing; the hyper-vigilant person often cannot (and refuses to) see that the serial bully is doing everything possible to get rid of them
the paranoiac is on constant alert because they know someone is out to get them the hyper-vigilant person is on alert in case there is danger
the paranoiac is certain of their belief and their behaviour and expects others to share that certainty the hyper-vigilant person cannot bring themselves to believe that the bully cannot and will not see the effect their behaviour is having; they cling naively to the mistaken belief that the bully will recognise their wrongdoing and apologise
Other differences between mental illness and psychiatric injury include:
Mental illness Psychiatric injury
the cause often cannot be identified the cause is easily identifiable and verifiable, but denied by those who are accountable
the person may be incoherent or what they say doesn’t make sense the person is often articulate but prevented from articulation by being traumatised
the person may appear to be obsessed the person is obsessive, especially in relation to identifying the cause of their injury and both dealing with the cause and effecting their recovery
the person is oblivious to their behaviour and the effect it has on others the person is in a state of acute self-awareness and aware of their state, but often unable to explain it
the depression is a clinical or endogenous depression the depression is reactive; the chemistry is different to endogenous depression
there may be a history of depression in the family there is very often no history of depression in the individual or their family
the person has usually exhibited mental health problems before often there is no history of mental health problems
may respond inappropriately to the needs and concerns of others responds empathically to the needs and concerns of others, despite their own injury
displays a certitude about themselves, their circumstances and their actions Is often highly sceptical about their condition and circumstances and is in a state of disbelief and bewilderment which they will easily and often articulate (“I can’t believe this is happening to me” and “Why me?” – click here for the answer)
may suffer a persecution complex may experience an unusually heightened sense of vulnerability to possible victimisation (i.e. hyper-vigilance)
suicidal thoughts are the result of despair, dejection and hopelessness suicidal thoughts are often a logical and carefully thought-out solution or conclusion
exhibits despair is driven by the anger of injustice
often doesn’t look forward to each new day looks forward to each new day as an opportunity to fight for justice
is often ready to give in or admit defeat refuses to be beaten, refuses to give up
Common features of Complex PTSD from bullying
People suffering Complex PTSD as a result of bullying report consistent symptoms which further help to characterise psychiatric injury and differentiate it from mental illness. These include:
Fatigue with symptoms of or similar to Chronic Fatigue Syndrome(formerly ME)
An anger of injustice stimulated to an excessive degree (sometimes but improperly attracting the words “manic” instead of motivated, “obsessive” instead of focused, and “angry” instead of “passionate”, especially from those with something to fear).
An overwhelming desire for acknowledgement, understanding, recognition and validation of their experience.
A simultaneous and paradoxical unwillingness to talk about the bullying (click hereto see why) or abuse (click here to see why).
A lack of desire for revenge, but a strong motivation for justice.
A tendency to oscillate between conciliation (forgiveness) and anger (revenge) with objectivity being the main casualty.
Extreme fragility, where formerly the person was of a strong, stable character.
Numbness, both physical (toes, fingertips, and lips) and emotional (inability to feel love and joy).
Clumsiness
Forgetfulness
Hyperawareness and an acute sense of time passing, seasons changing, and distances travelled.
An enhanced environmental awareness, often on a planetary scale.
An appreciation of the need to adopt a healthier diet, possibly reducing or eliminating meat – especially red meat.
Willingness to try complementary medicine and alternative, holistic therapies, etc.
A constant feeling that one has to justify everything one says and does.
A constant need to prove oneself, even when surrounded by good, positive people.
An unusually strong sense of vulnerability, victimisation or possible victimisation, often wrongly diagnosed as “persecution”.
Occasional violent intrusive visualisations.
Feelings of worthlessness, rejection, a sense of being unwanted, unlikeable and unlovable.
A feeling of being small, insignificant, and invisible.
An overwhelming sense of betrayal, and a consequent inability and unwillingness to trust anyone, even those close to you.
In contrast to the chronic fatigue, depression etc, occasional false dawns with sudden bursts of energy accompanied by a feeling of “I’m better!”, only to be followed by a full resurgence of symptoms a day or two later.
Excessive guilt – when the cause of PTSD is bullying, the guilt expresses itself in forms distinct from “survivor guilt”; it comes out as:
An initial reluctance to take action against the bully and report him/her knowing that he/she could lose his/her job.
Later, this reluctance gives way to a strong urge to take action against the bully so that others, especially successors, don’t have to suffer a similar fate.
Reluctance to feel happiness and joy because one’s sense of other people’s suffering throughout the world is heightened.
A proneness to identifying with other people’s suffering.
A heightened sense of unworthiness, un-deservingness and non-entitlement (some might call this shame).
A heightened sense of indebtedness, beholdenness and undue obligation.
A reluctance to earn or accept money because one’s sense of poverty and injustice throughout the world is heightened.
An unwillingness to take ill-health retirement because the person doesn’t want to believe they are sufficiently unwell to merit it.
An unwillingness to draw sickness, incapacity or unemployment benefit to which the person is entitled.
An unusually strong desire to educate the employer and help the employer introduce an anti-bullying ethos, usually proportional to the employer’s lack of interest in anti-bullying measures.
A desire to help others, often overwhelming and bordering on obsession, and to be available for others at any time regardless of the cost to oneself.
An unusually high inclination to feel sorry for other people who are under stress, including those in a position of authority, even those who are not fulfilling the duties and obligations of their position (which may include the bully) but who are continuing to enjoy salary for remaining in post [hint: to overcome this tendency, every time you start to feel sorry for someone, say to yourself “sometimes, when you jump in and rescue someone, you deny them the opportunity to learn and grow”].
Fatigue
The fatigue is understandable when you realise that in bullying, the target’s fight or flight mechanism eventually becomes activated from Sunday evening (at the thought of facing the bully at work on Monday morning) through to the following Saturday morning (phew – weekend at last!).
The fight or flight mechanism is designed to be operational only briefly and intermittently; in the heightened state of alert, the body consumes abnormally high levels of energy. If this state becomes semi-permanent, the body’s physical, mental and emotional batteries are drained dry. Whilst the weekend theoretically is a time for the batteries to recharge, this doesn’t happen, because:
the person is by now obsessed with the situation (or rather, resolving the situation), cannot switch off, may be unable to sleep, and probably has nightmares, flashbacks and replays;
sleep is non-restorative and unrefreshing – one goes to sleep tired and wakes up tired
This type of experience plays havoc with the immune system; when the fight or flight system is eventually switched off, the immune system is impaired such that the person is open to viruses which they would under normal circumstances fight off; the person then spends each weekend with a cold, cough, flu, glandular fever, laryngitis, ear infection etc so the body’s batteries never have an opportunity to recharge.
When activated, the body’s fight or flight response results in the digestive, immune and reproductive systems being placed on standby. It’s no coincidence that people experiencing constant abuse, harassment and bullying report malfunctions related to these systems (loss of appetite, constant infections, flatulence, irritable bowel syndrome, loss of libido, impotence, etc).
The body becomes awash with cortisol which in high prolonged doses is toxic to brain cells. Cortisol kills off Neuro-receptors in the hippocampus, an area of the brain linked with learning and memory. The hippocampus is also the control centre for the fight or flight response, thus the ability to control the fight or flight mechanism itself becomes impaired.
Most survivors of bullying experience symptoms of Chronic Fatigue Syndrome – see health page for details.
-Source: http://bullyonline.org/old/stress/ptsd.htm#DSM-IV Diagnostic criteria
Posted in Hypnotherapy	| Tagged stress, trauma	| Leave a comment |
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Recent Posts
Supplements to Help with Stress & Anxiety
Insomnia and Other Sleep Disorders
How to Slow the Aging Process…
The Dark Side of Your Emotional Needs – Mind and Body
When to Stop Being a Patient and Escape the Victim Cage!
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2019
June 2018
March 2018
February 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
July 2017
June 2017
January 2017
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
November 2015
October 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
November 2013
July 2013
Categories
Categories Select Category 7-Minute Work Out System Addiction Help Anxiety and Stress Benefits of Maca Brain Health Brainwashing Business Mindset Colds & Flu Virus Protectors Dangers of Sugar Eating Disorders Entire Body Detox Food Myths Guilt Free Deserts Gut Health How to Attract Money Hypnotherapy Immune System Booster Meditation & Hypnosis Mind Food Nutrition Pain Management Power Protein Powders Psychology of Eating Relationships Self-Confidence on Steroids Stress Relief Water Purification Weight Loss Secrets
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Design by Steve Deane.