Behind the science: Magnesium - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Expert advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Meals for oneWhen cooking for one, or two, meals can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Shopping
Videos
Win
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
ADVICE
Behind the science: Magnesium
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
This mineral plays an important role in maintaining good health. HFG senior nutritionist Rose Carr explains.
What does magnesium do?
Magnesium is involved in more than 300 chemical reactions in our bodies. It’s needed for energy production, managing blood glucose levels, blood clotting and regulating blood pressure. Magnesium is also involved in conducting nerve impulses, muscle contraction and normal heart rhythm. It’s estimated our bodies contain around 25g of magnesium and over half of that is found in our bones.
Balancing magnesium
Maintaining the right amount of magnesium in our bodies depends on absorbing magnesium from food in the gut and excreting any excess in our urine. Low intakes of magnesium won’t result in any noticeable symptoms in the short term as our kidneys conserve magnesium when intake is low. And when magnesium intake is higher than needed the kidneys flush more out in our urine. Magnesium stored in bones can also be used to maintain the balance elsewhere.
When magnesium needs are greater, for example during breastfeeding, much less magnesium is excreted. The amount of magnesium we need also increases with high intakes of calcium, protein, vitamin D and alcohol. Stress, whether physical or mental may also increase our needs.
People most at risk of not getting enough magnesium include those with gastrointestinal diseases which reduce absorption, such as coeliac disease and Crohn’s disease, people with type 2 diabetes, older people and those with long-term alcoholism.
Magnesium and health
Osteoporosis
While we are probably familiar with the importance of calcium in bone development and ongoing bone health, higher intakes of magnesium are also associated with greater bone density, which lowers the risk of bone fractures and osteoporosis. Whether or not magnesium supplements can help to reduce the risk of osteoporosis is not yet known.
Night cramps and restless legs syndrome
Calcium stimulates muscle contraction while magnesium acts as the relaxant, and because of this role magnesium supplements are claimed to prevent muscle cramping. However, the jury is still out on this.
High blood pressure and cardiovascular disease
Magnesium appears to play a role in blood pressure. Some studies have found magnesium supplementation can lower blood pressure but the effect has been quite small. Contrast that to the DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet studies, which show significant decreases in blood pressure with a diet emphasising vegetables and fruit, whole grains, low-fat dairy and a low sodium intake. A whole diet approach is the best option.
Type 2 diabetes
Magnesium plays a role in glucose metabolism and evidence suggests that higher dietary intakes of magnesium are associated with lower insulin resistance and risk of developing type 2 diabetes. In one large study people with the lowest intakes of magnesium had a 23 per cent higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes than those with the highest intakes. Researchers are investigating whether or not magnesium supplements will help lower the risk for type 2 diabetes, or help control blood glucose for people with type 2 diabetes, but as yet there is limited and contradictory evidence around this.
Migraines
While there are likely many causes of migraine headaches, some people who suffer migraines have low magnesium levels. A few small studies have found magnesium supplements may reduce the frequency of migraines, although the effect is small. The American Headache Society advises that magnesium is ‘probably effective’ for migraine prevention. The doses used in the research are higher than the recommended upper limit, so if you wish to use magnesium for migraines, it’s important to do this under medical supervision.
Sleep
Nutritional deficiencies of magnesium and the B group vitamins are hypothesised to impair sleep and there is limited evidence that boosting these could have a modest effect on sleep quality and duration. This is based on their roles in the production of melatonin and serotonin. The science around this is pretty limited but one out-take could certainly be that a healthy diet high in magnesium-rich foods could help with sleep.
How to get enough
The recommended dietary intake (RDI) each day for magnesium is 420mg for men and 320 mg for women aged 31 and over. (Younger men and women need only slightly less.) A diet rich in plant foods will provide plenty of magnesium as it’s found in nuts and seeds, legumes, wholegrain cereals and dark leafy greens. Milk and dairy products also contain magnesium. Getting enough magnesium from a diet low in plant foods and with mostly processed grains will be more difficult.
What if I don’t get enough?
Magnesium deficiency is not common in otherwise healthy people, but if we have low magnesium intakes over a long period it is possible to become deficient. Early symptoms include a loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, fatigue and weakness. However, these symptoms could be caused by many other things, some more serious than others, so don’t self-diagnose! See your GP.
Did you know? Magnesium can have a laxative effect.
Author: Rose Carr
Healthy Food Guide
First published: Aug 2014
Last updated: April 3 2017
Last science review: November 8 2016
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
www.healthyfood.com
cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure, magnesium, osteoporosis
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
ADVICE
Could omega-6 protect you against premature death?
ADVICE
Less sat fat for kids, healthier adult hearts
ADVICE
Go nuts for heart health
ADVICE
Top sports for a healthy heart revealed
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back