March 2013 Newsletter
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Cookies policy | Easy Read | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] Reset
Championing optimum nutrition for the mind
Call us on 020 8332 9600
My account | Basket (0 Items)
Home
Nutrition solutions
Clinic
Smart kids
Alzheimer's prevention
Accreditation
Publications
Support us
Publications and events > E-news > March 2013
Nutrition solutions
ADHD and hyperactivity
About ADHD/hyperactivity
Action plan to overcome ADHD/hyperactivity
Do you need help?
Hyper activity test
Autism
About autism
Action plan for managing autism
Do you need help?
Bipolar disorder
About bipolar disorder (manic depression)
Action plan for bipolar disorder
Do you need help?
Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease
About dementia/Alzheimer’s disease
Action plan for dementia & Alzheimer’s
Do you need help?
Cognitive Function Test
Support Our Campaign
Depression
About depression
Action plan for overcoming depression
Do you need help?
Depression Test
Food Intolerance Test
Dyslexia and dyspraxia
About dyslexia/dyspraxia
Action plan for managing dyslexia/dyspraxia
Do you need help?
Insomnia
About insomnia
Action plan for insomnia
Do you need help?
Parkinson's disease
About Parkinson's disease
Action plan for Parkinson's disease
Do you need help?
Schizophrenia and psychosis
About schizophrenia and psychosis
Action plan for managing schizophrenia
Do you need help?
Stress
About stress
Action plan for becoming more resilient to stress
Do you need help?
Brain Bio Centre
The Clinic
About the clinic
Clinic costs
The Complete Packages
Get in touch
Contact us
Book a consultation
Book a Skype consultation
Patient Information Forms
Consultations
Skype Consultations
Tests
Supplements
Meet the team
The Clinical Team
The Board
Our Experts
Scientific Advisory Board
How to find us
FAQs
Stress
Cognitive decline and neurological disorders
Depression and anxiety
Learning and behaviour
Psychotic disorders
Tune up your brain
Testimonials
In the media
Auction
AuctionProduct3
AuctionProduct7
AuctionProduct10
AuctionProduct11
AuctionProduct14
AuctionProduct17
AuctionProduct18
AuctionProduct21
AuctionProduct22
AuctionProduct23
AuctionProduct24
AuctionProduct25
AuctionProduct26
AuctionProduct27
AuctionProduct28
AuctionProduct29
AuctionProduct33
Alzheimer's prevention
About Alzheimer’s Prevention
Action on Alzheimer's
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Take the test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the test
Interpreting results
Lowering homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
Previous scores
6 Prevention Steps
Make a donation
Modifying Risk Factors
Homocysteine and B Vitamins
Methylation and homocysteine
Play Your Part
For business
Events
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Declarations of interest
Cognitive Function Test
Smart Kids
Is your childs diet healthy?
Child Survey
Child Survey on GMTV
Q and A on the child survey
How to build a healthy brain?
Where are the hidden sugars?
Smart shopping
Healthy recipes and ideas
Smart weaning
Supplements for smart kids
Children's food allergies
Schools Project
SAQ Training System
Cricket Green
Chineham Park
What children say
What the experts say
Research
Alzheimer's Prevention Project
Cognitive Function Test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the Test
Interpreting Results
Lowering Homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
10 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps
Declarations of interest
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Alzheimer’s Prevention Conference
Methylation and Homocysteine
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Information for Health Professionals
Alzheimer's - there is no cure. Prevention is the way.
Schizophrenia project
Evidence database
A review of the current evidence (2005) suggests that essential fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA may benefit a variety of mental health conditions.
ADHD teens have higher need for Omega-3 fats. Colter A L et al., Nutr J. 2008 Feb 14;7:8.
An omega-3 fish oil combined with phosphatidylserine improved impulsiveness in ADHD kids...
Essential fat levels lower in boys with ADHD compared to 'healthy' controls...
Essential fats reduce ADHD-related symptoms in children with specific learning difficulties...
Feeding the autistic brain - Multi-nutrients reduce symptoms and improve biological function...
Foods and additives are common causes of the attention deficit hyperactive disorder in children...
Gut disorders are more prevalent in children with developmental disorders...
Keep it simple - Healthy diet best for ADHD...
Magnesium supplementation improved ADHD symptoms...
Physical symptoms of fatty acid deficiency unreliable in ADHD...
Restricted diet linked to 78% reduction in ADHD...
Supplementation of fatty acids improved ADHD symptoms in children aged 7 to 12 years...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves juvenile delinquency among American schoolchildren...
A very low carbohydrate diet improves memory function for older adults at risk of Alzheimer's disease...
Dementia costs the UK £23 billion a year and is preventable...
Efficacy of a medical food in mild Alzheimer's disease...
Lower reported nutritional status is associated with increased risk to physical and mental health and well-being in School-aged Children...
Nutrients, cognitive function, and MRI measures of brain ageing.
Omega 3 helps ageing brain
Supplements of omega-3 and omega-6 improve reading, spelling and behaviour in children ages 5-12 years with Developmental Coordination Disorder.
Allergy to milk proteins could be linked to autism...
Consumption of fish and n-3 fatty acids and risk of incident Alzheimer disease...
DHA may slow progression of Alzheimer’s in a mouse model...
Dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids and weekly consumption of fish may reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Dietary intake of vitamin E associated with lower risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Fish oils stave off alzheimers...
Fruit and vegetable juice may protect against Alzheimer's...
Genetic link between vitamin D and Alzheimer's discovered...
Good diet staves off dementia and alzheimers...
Higher folate intake associated with lower risk of Alzheimer Disease in the elderly...
Homocysteine and dementia – a clear association...
Homocysteine effects on brain volumes mapped in 732 elderly individuals...
Medication prescribed to Alzheimer's patients may hasten their decline...
Mineral imbalances in Alzheimer's brains...
Sugar may speed up alzheimers...
Supplements of Vitamin E and Vitamin C reduce risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Targeting risk factors could cut Alzheimer’s by a quarter...
Vitamin E antioxidants to slow the progression of Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E slows progression of moderately severe Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E supplementation may lower mortality in Alzheimer's patients...
Elevated homocysteine found in women with eating disorders, independent of folic acid or B12 levels...
Supplementation with folic acid enhances effect of antidepressant medication...
Reduced risk of depression associated with mediterranean diet...
An autistic patient has abnormal red blood cell fatty acid composition compared to control subjects...
Autistic children benefit from a gluten and casein free diet...
Autistic children frequently suffer from digestive complaints and inflammation in the digestive system...
Autistic children show possible imbalance of fatty acids...
Behaviour deterioration seen in autistic children upon vitamin B6 withdrawal...
Damage to gut wall maybe a cause of autism...
Effect of gluten and casein free diets on food choice and nutrition in autism...
Food hypersensitivity linked to digestive disturbances in autistic children...
Gluten-free diet can improve behavioural symptoms of autistic children...
Immune reaction to both gliadin and brain proteins may explain an autoimmune basis for autism...
More than 1 in 100 children and adults have autism...
Opioid theory may explain food and gut-related symptoms of autism...
Opioid theory may explain role of diet and digestion in autism...
PCBs may contribute to Autism – rat study...
Review investigates links between immune system activity and autism...
Review of 12 studies suggest positive effect of vitamin therapy in autism...
Review of trials of gluten/casein elimination diets in children with autism...
Studies show a gluten and/or casein free diet reduces autistic behaviour...
Study finds no significant improvement in autistic children’s clinical symptoms whilst on a gluten-free and casein-free diet...
Vitamin A may help reverse a genetic predisposition to autism...
Vitamin B6 and magnesium improve childhood autism in combination...
Lowering homocysteine improved symptoms in chronic schizophrenia patients with elevated homocysteine...
Supplementation with essential nutrients may benefit symptoms of depression in elderly patients...
Elevated homocysteine associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly...
High folate intake alongside low B-12 status may worsen risk for dementia...
Vitamin B12 deficiency may affect the brain through multiple mechanisms...
Association with vitamin D levels and depressive symptoms.
Could early vitamin C deficiency impair development?
Downside of acid drug...
Lack of B vitamins linked to PMS...
Lower blood levels of vitamin C in people with schizophrenia...
U.S. Study confirms homocysteine linked to brain shrinkage...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves intelligence in some American schoolchildren...
Vitamin D deficiency in pregnancy may have implications for mental health of children – rat study...
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood and worse cognitive performance in older adults...
Vitamin D deficiency linked to Parkinson's...
Vitamin D linked with depression in elderly...
Vitamins and minerals improve learning and memory in 'normal' school children...
Diet has positive impact on anti-social, violent and criminal behaviour – a review...
Folic acid may boost baby's behaviour...
Iron, zinc, and lead are associated with behaviour and cognition in preschool children...
Sweets for kida means violent adults. Moore et al. (2009) 195: 366-367
Omega 3 fish oil good for depression and bipolar...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA improves depression in people with bipolar alongside their existing medication...
Beta carotene helps brain function and memory...
Breast feeding is best food for your child's brain...
Depressed brain deficient in Omega-3 fatty acid DHA...
Dietary choline, cognitive performance and brain volume...
Fish consumption associated with better brain volume and memory...
Fish oil supplementation supports mood and brain function in the elderly...
Homocysteine associated with brain atrophy in the healthy elderly...
Omega 3 good for cognitive performance in older adults...
Omega-3 in pregnancy boosts baby's brain development...
Use it or lose it - Cognitive activity throughout life supports a healthy brain...
Fish-eating mothers’ milk highest in DHA...
Chromium improves atypical depression...
Update on chromium for depression.
Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study, Nurk E et al...
Elderly people with the highest blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids had the least decline in verbal fluency...
Excess calcium speeds cognitive decline in the elderly...
Folic acid improves concentration and cognitive performance in healthy elderly...
Folic acid improves memory and mental agility in over-50s. ...
Higher intakes of fish oil from diet associated with slower rates of cognitive decline in elderly men...
Does raised homocysteine cause dementia?
Acne treatment could cause depression...
Beneficial gut bacteria reduce anxiety and depression in mice...
Breakfast, Academic Performance and Mental Distress...
Depression linked to processed food...
Fish oil boosts mood in depressed seniors...
Folic acid improves recovery in major depression and schizophrenia...
Low Iron may contribute to depression in women who are not anaemic...
More folate may mean less depression in men. Daniells 2010
Multivitamin and mineral supplement improves mood in hospitalised elderly...
Omega-3 helps depressed children, A Controlled, Double-Blind Pilot Study...
Review of research suggests folate may be effective for depression...
Sleep deprivation may cause depression in adolescents...
Tryptophan supplementation induces a positive bias in processing of emotional material...
Cochrane Review of essential fatty acids for schizophrenia inconclusive but recommends more research needed...
Children with healthier diets do better in school...
Good food boosts school performance...
Poor diet associated with worse mental health in teens...
Schizophrenia symptoms may be helped by a gluten free, low carb diet...
Drug treatment for Schizophrenics may induce diabetes...
Fish oil may reduce psychotic disorders in high risk individuals...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA helps schizophrenia symptoms...
Dietary sources of fat associated with schizophrenia...
Low essential fats worse for Schizophrenia symptoms...
Benefits may outweigh risks for seafood consumption in pregnancy...
Certain combinations of food additives are linked to hyperactivtiy in young children...
Food additives and hyperactivity in children...
Good food in infancy boosts earning power ...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Supplement combination helps the elderly get a good night’s sleep...
Omega 3 concentrations relationship to physical and mental well being...
Omega-3 supplementation reduces anxiety and inflammation in healthy young adults...
Efficacy and cost of micronutrient treatment of childhood psychosis
Publications and events
Current events
Food for the Brain Alzheimer's Conference 2011
More information of the speakers
Food for the Brain Conference 2008
Nutritional Strategies for Breaking Addiction - Speakers
FfB Mental Health Masterclass with Bill Walsh PHD from the Pfeiffer Treatment Centre
The Gut Brain Link in Autism, Depression and Mental Health
E-news
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
October 2012
September 2012
July 2012
June 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Further support
Reports
Nutritional interventions for the adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia: a brief review
The Links Between Diet and Behaviour
Food for the brain child survey report
Nutrients and Alzheimer's Disease Prevention: 2011 Review
Depression - the nutrition connection
Alzheimer's and Dementia - the nutrition connection
Oxidative Stress in Autism
Double blind placebo-controlled study of zinc sulfate in the treatment of ADHD
Effect of consumpton of soft drinks on hyperactivity and behaviour
Effect of Omega 3 supplementation on visual and cognitive development in childhood
Glucose tolerance predicts performance on tests of memory and cognition
Inositol deficiency deit and lithium effects
LC PFAs in Childhood Development and Psychiatric Disorders
Major Depressive Disorder, NEJM, 2008
O-3 Treatment of Childhood Depression - double blind controlled pilot study
Omega 3 for recurrent Unipolar Depressive Disorder
Raising IQ through vitamin and mineral supplementation
Supplementation with PFAs and Micronutrients on learning & behaviour in ADHD
The NEMO Study Group, 2007
Unhealthful Eating Patterns and overall school performance in Children
Zinc in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Resources
Accreditation in catering
Support us
Support us by donating
Support us by fundraising
Partners
About us
Who we are
Board of Trustees
Scientific Advisory Board
Current vacancies
Donate
Friends of Food for the Brain
Register
Donate today
Donate through legacy
Donate by volunteering
Why donate?
Newsletter Signup
Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Easy Read
Cookies policy
My Profile
Payment
3D Landing
3D Validate
Payment Result
Checkout Step 2
Checkout
Advertising Policy
download
sitemap.xml
adhdtest
Advertising
Nairns ad
Solgar
Cherry Active
York Test
Food Matters Live
Conference 2011 CD
preventionsteps
Friends
rsvp
Alzheimers' Prevention PLAN B
Newsletter update
appgdementia
alzriskfactors
igedstatement
thenutritionconnection
actiononalzheimers
enews
Admin Position
Nutrition for Children's Learning and Development
Nutrition for Depression
Overcoming stress and anxiety – how to stay calm, stop the energy drain and build resilience
accreditation-redirect
seminar-site redirect (1)
Free newsletter
Cognitive function test
Smart Kids test
We can help you
Twitter
FOOD FOR THE BRAIN
www.foodforthebrain.org
Follow
Go to full profile →
March 2013
Content
Research round-up
Let the sunshine in: vitamin D good for mental health
B vitamins help schizophrenia: folic acid and B12 help reduce 'negative' symptoms in schizophrenia
Folic acid brain boost: folic acid in pregnancy reduces risk of autism in children
Opinion piece
Coconut oil: can it help protect your memory?
Editorial by Jerome Burne
Recently the media has reported a number of stories relating to the health benefits of coconut oil, in particular, its ability to aid memory loss and the symptoms of Alzheimer's.
I wrote the first UK piece about it in the Daily Mail in January that had some amazing accounts of the benefits reported in America and why it made sense scientifically. Most dramatic though was the case of Vrajal Parmar in the UK, diagnosed with advanced Alzheimer's, who was being looked after by his wife and his son Kal.
Vrajal had been given the standard pencil and paper test called the Mini Mental State Examination by his doctor. This test is used to measure how a patient's Alzheimer's is progressing. A healthy person would score 30, Vrajal's results stated that he was "too severely affected to score anything at all”. Kal, his son, supports this result, "He [Vrajal] was so far gone he couldn't do anything for himself. Dad couldn't wash himself or dress or go to the toilet without help, he had to be watched all the time.”
After hearing about the benefits of coconut oil via a You Tube video, Kal initiated a teaspoon dose of coconut oil, three times a day mixed in with his father's food. This is when he saw a real change in his father's behavior which went from him being unable to do anything with frequent aggressive turns, to being able to hold simple conversations and less aggressive outbursts.
It could be suggested that the improvement came from medication, however, Kal states "Dad has never had any drugs” and comments that "when he [Vrajal] was first diagnosed three years ago the doctors said that his condition was already too advanced for him to benefit [from drugs].”
The YouTube video that introduced Kal to coconut oil was made by Dr Mary Newport, a pediatrician in Florida who began using coconut oil to treat her husband with Alzheimer's four years ago. He'd been diagnosed with early onset of Alzheimer's but had seen no benefit from the drugs. With the oil, says Dr Newport, there were positive changes: "he began to get his short-term memory back”.
Support for the idea that there is a very plausible scientific explanation for the benefit of coconut oil, in the treatment of Alzheimer's, comes from Kieran Clarke, Professor of Physiological Biochemistry at Oxford and head of the Cardiac Metabolism Research Group. Professor Clarke is an expert on the way the body makes and uses energy and her research explains that coconut oil might help with Alzheimer's by boosting the brain's energy supply.
Most of the time our brains rely on glucose from carbohydrates but if that is not available - because we haven't eaten anything for a while or because we are eating almost no carbohydrates - then our brain cells can switch to using the energy from out fat stores that comes in the form of small molecules called ketones. By the time we wake up in the morning we will have made a small amount of them due to the natural fasting period whilst we sleep.
"Coconut oil is interesting,” says Professor Clarke "because it contains a particular sort of fat that our bodies can use to make more of the ketone "brain food” without having to cut right back on carbohydrates or go on a fast. It's known as MCT (medium chain triglyceride) and it is not found in the fats that most of us eat.”
However, we may question why having extra ketones helps people with Alzheimer's?
One of the new ideas about the disease is that it is a type of diabetes of the brain. Just as diabetics have problems with glucose and insulin, similarly Alzheimer's sufferers can't get enough glucose into brain cells to give them the energy they need to lay down new memories and think clearly. If you have diabetes you are three times more likely to develop Alzheimer's. Getting extra ketones into brain cells provides the brain with an alternative source of fuel.
Currently the only type of drug that Alzheimer's patients can get works by boosting the amount of a brain chemical they are lacking. It slows down memory decline in about 1/3 of patients for between 6 months and a year. Last year the NHS spent over £70 million on the most widely used brand called Aricept. Side-effects include nausea, diarrhea, muscle cramps, urinary incontinence and abnormally slow heart rhythms which can lead to fainting and possibly dangerous falls. Contrast that with coconut oil which has been safely used by people for thousands of years. In high doses some people do report diarrhea.
However, professionals are still understandably skeptical of the coconut oil claims. "There is a huge placebo response in Alzheimer's,” warns Professor Robert Howard, Professor of Old Age Psychiatry and Psychopathology at the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust. "It is a remitting and relapsing disease, there are often times when things seem to be getting better. It is important to protect patients from false hope and not expose them to quackery.”
Additionally, Professor Rudy Tanzi Director of the Genetics and Aging Research Unit at Massachusetts General Hospital and Professor of Neurology at Harvard Medical School commented that as yet there was no evidence of the benefits of coconut oil treatment, and advised to "regularly monitor cholesterol and triglyceride levels if you are taking the oil." The issue of whether coconut oil, which is high in saturated fats, poses a threat to the heart is controversial. Dieticians and most doctors claim it does, paediatricianDr Newport points out that mother's milk contains high levels of the fat most abundant in coconut oil.
A placebo controlled trial to test the effectiveness of coconut oil is getting underway in the states. If the results are favourable that should make it more medically acceptable. But right now people are hungry for information on anything that might help with Alzheimer's. When Kal Parmar talked to a local newspaper about his father's improvement he received over 150 emails asking for help. So far dozens of people have come back to him saying that they had someone in their family on coconut oil, in some cases with impressive results. And the numbers are continuing to grow. For more information on Kal Parmar and his father's case please visit www.remembercoconut.com or contact him via his Twitter feed at twitter.com/coconutkal.
Jerome Burne is a medical journalist and author of the Body of Evidence blog.
Research round-up
Let the sunshine in! Vitamin D good for mental health
A new study from University College London investigated a potential association between vitamin D levels and common mental disorders. Their study analysed data from 7,401 participants of a group of people born in 1958. Validated questionnaires were used to determine levels of symptoms such as depression, anxiety, panic and phobia while blood tests were used to determine vitamin D levels. The researchers found that higher levels of vitamin D, at age 45, were associated with lower odds of depression and panic.
Our comment: This study illustrates a link between low vitamin D and mental ill-health, but doesn't tell us whether low vitamin D is a cause or whether there are other reasons for the link. However, this work adds to the growing body of evidence that suggests vitamin D is essential for mental well-being. At the Brain Bio Centre, we routinely test our patients for vitamin D and find that over 80% are deficient. This increases to around 90% when we include those with sub-optimal levels. The major source of vitamin D is sunshine (something which is often lacking here in the UK), and the only reasonable food source is oily fish, so most people require supplementation to maintain a healthy level throughout the year. Vitamin D and common mental disorders in mid-life: Cross-sectional and prospective findings. Clin Nutr. Jan 21. Click here for abstract.
B vitamins Help Schizophrenia Folic acid and B12 help reduce 'negative' symptoms in schizophrenia
People with psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia often get some benefit from antipsychotic medication for the 'positive' symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations, but antipsychotics often have little effect on the 'negative' symptoms such as apathy, social withdrawal, and lack of emotional expressiveness. This study involved 140 people with chronic schizophrenia who were already taking antipsychotic medication. For 16 weeks they were given either 2mg of folic acid and 400 µg of vitamin B12, or a placebo. Their positive and negative symptoms were monitored over the period using recognised assessment scales. Overall, there wasn't a significant difference in symptoms between the two groups. However, when genetics were considered by taking into account a gene which affects folate (folic acid) metabolism, by the end of the study period there was a significant improvement in the symptoms amongst the supplemented group compared with controls.
Our comment: As mentioned above, folic acid has a key role in mental health, not least in affecting gene expression and maintaining a low level of homocysteine. Our approach at the Brain Bio Centre, is to measure levels of folic acid (in red blood cells), vitamin B12 and homocysteine so that we can make recommendations suited to the individual. Randomized Multicenter Investigation of Folate Plus Vitamin B12 Supplementation in Schizophrenia. JAMA Psychiatry. Click here for abstract.
Folic acid brain boost Folic acid in pregnancy reduces risk of autism in children
It is recommended that folic acid is taken by all women who are planning a pregnancy to reduce the risk of neural tube defects (spina bifida) in the newborn. This study investigated whether the use of folic acid pre-conception and in pregnancy might also reduce the risk of autistic spectrum disorders. The researchers assessed folic acid intake in mothers and the presence of autism in the children (at an average age of 6 years old). They found that women who took folic acid were much less likely to have a child with autism.
Our comment: This study shows a positive association between folic acid use and reduced risk of autism which adds further support to the recommendation to take folic acid. Folic acid is a member of a group of vitamins called B vitamins. All B vitamins have an important role to play in health, so while the strongest recommendation is made to take folic acid, we would generally recommend taking the entire group in a B-complex form. The best dietary sources of folic acid are vegetables, especially those which are green and leafy, which are always to be encouraged. Association between maternal use of folic acid supplements and risk of autism spectrum disorders in children. JAMA. Click here for abstract.
Back to top
Join us...
Contact Us
Make an appointment
Vacancies
About us
Board of Trustees
Our mission
Cookies Policy
Scientific Advisory Board
Advertising Policy
About this site
Site Map
Policies
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
is a not for profit educational charity
© 2012 Food for the Brain. All Rights Reserved
Food for the Brain is a registered charity (No: 1116438) and is limited by guarantee (Company Number 5885305)