Croup Treatment
Pediatrician Dr. James Varga, MD, explains why croup can be frightening for the child and parents, and how you can treat croup symptoms. Learn how to relieve croup symptoms with at-home remedies, and when to bring your child to see a doctor.
Croup Treatment | Kids in the House
Skip to main content
Loading...
About Us
Login
Create new account
Search
Open Menu
Home
Top Videos
Experts
Parent to Parent
Blogs
Premium
Top Products
All Parents
Pregnancy
Adoption
Baby
Toddler
Preschool
Elementary
Teen
Special Needs
Home » PRESCHOOL » Development and Health
step2
validation reminder
Croup Treatment
GET ACCESS TO ALL PREMIUM CONTENT WITH NO ADS FOR $4.99/MONTH
Watch Later
2294
Comment
878
Like
878
Transcription:
Nighttime is a frightening time for parents with an ill child. Unfortunately, croup, which is a viral illness, often appears in the middle of the night. It is one of the most frightening conditions for parents because usually a child wakes in the night who is having extreme difficulty breathing and making a barking sound like a seal coming from the next bedroom. This usually invokes a great deal of panic and worry. The first thing parents should do is take the child to the bathroom, close the door and turn on the hot shower. Spend 15-20 breathing in the hot steam. If that doesn't help, I recommend taking the child outside in the cool night air and that usually will break the child's attack. Then I would like for them to run a cool mist humidifier beside their bed. Any child who has had a hard time breathing at night, should see the pediatrician in the morning and if the breathing does not improve, they should be taken to the Emergency Room. Fortunately, today we don't see the severe type of croup that we did years ago.
Video Categories: BABY, Baby Development and Milestones, Croup and Coughs, TODDLER, Development and Health
Login or Register to view and post comments
<> Embed Codes
Pediatrician Dr. James Varga, MD, explains why croup can be frightening for the child and parents, and how you can treat croup symptoms. Learn how to relieve croup symptoms with at-home remedies, and when to bring your child to see a doctor.
Related Videos
Transcript
Expert Bio
More from Expert
Related Videos
More by Expert
What is croup and how do I treat it? Nina Shapiro, MD
How to avoid colds and viruses Jay Gordon, MD
Whooping cough (Pertussis) and immunization Lawrence Kagan, MD
Bacterial pneumonia vs. viral pneumonia Jay Gordon, MD
Whooping cough vaccine for adults James Varga, MD
When fevers are dangerous James Varga, MD
Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease James Varga, MD
Ear infections and how to tell if your child has one Nina Shapiro, MD
Ear infection causes and treatments Jay Gordon, MD
The difference between chronic and recurring ear infections Nina Shapiro, MD
Meet James Varga, MD
ADHD alternative treatments
ADHD and theories on its increase
ADHD medication pros and cons
Autism and theories on its increase
Clearing impacted ear wax
Cradle cap cures
Croup Treatment
Diagnosing a teenager with ADHD
Diagnosing ADHD
Flu vaccine pros and cons
Golden Nugget
Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease
How to diagnose ADHD
Mistaking other conditions for ADHD
Mono symptoms and treatment
Pain medication and toddlers
Should children be prescribed medications for ADD?
Taking kids' temperatures
Toddler hair pulling
Toddler head banging
Treating constipation in children
Treating high fevers
Vaccine recommendations
Vegan and vegetarian diets for kids
Walking on tippy toes
What to expect during toddler check-ups
When does eye color settle into its final color?
When fevers are dangerous
Whooping cough vaccine for adults
View the discussion thread.
James Varga, MD
Pediatrician
James Varga began to practice medicine in 1977 after graduating from Bucknell University and New York Medical College with honors. James completed post doctoral studies in Child Development at UCLA. His wife Olga and he have two great daughters, Jenna and Maya.
Parenting expert on: Croup and Coughs, Medication, ADD and ADHD, ADHD Diagnosis
More Parenting Videos from James Varga, MD >
FREE
Top Ten
Preschool Tips Enter your email to
download & subscribe
to our newsletter
Listen or Watch
Must See First Year Videos
Three important rules about your baby's first foods
First year milestones
Postnatal depression and loneliness advice
Baby losing interest in nursing
The importance of spending quality time during early childhood
Narrating an infant's environment
Research based benefits of co-sleeping
Bonding versus attachment
Bonding with your baby after a less-than-perfect birth
Preventing postpartum depression
Play All 34 Videos
Featured Experts: Alan Greene, MD, Lawrence Kagan, MD, Barbara Olinger, MSW
More Playlists >
Transcription:
Nighttime is a frightening time for parents with an ill child. Unfortunately, croup, which is a viral illness, often appears in the middle of the night. It is one of the most frightening conditions for parents because usually a child wakes in the night who is having extreme difficulty breathing and making a barking sound like a seal coming from the next bedroom. This usually invokes a great deal of panic and worry. The first thing parents should do is take the child to the bathroom, close the door and turn on the hot shower. Spend 15-20 breathing in the hot steam. If that doesn't help, I recommend taking the child outside in the cool night air and that usually will break the child's attack. Then I would like for them to run a cool mist humidifier beside their bed. Any child who has had a hard time breathing at night, should see the pediatrician in the morning and if the breathing does not improve, they should be taken to the Emergency Room. Fortunately, today we don't see the severe type of croup that we did years ago.
Video Categories: BABY, Baby Development and Milestones, Croup and Coughs, TODDLER, Development and Health
©2019 kidsinthehouse.com. 310–899-6026 All Rights Reserved
About Us
Press
Privacy Policy
Support
Terms of Use
Affiliate Program
Site Maps
Follow us:
Home
Login
Create Account
Blog
Parent 2 Parent
Videos by Category
ALL PARENTS
PREGNANCY
ADOPTION
BABY
TODDLER
PRESCHOOL
ELEMENTARY
TEEN
SPECIAL NEEDS
Videos by Expert
A-Z
Educators
Law & Money
Medical
Other Specialties
Parents
Safety & Security
Special Needs
Therapists
My Account
About Us