How to Get Even Skin Tone: 18 Ways
Newsletter
18 Remedies for More Even Skin
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN on October 26, 2017 — Written by Ana Gotter
Lifestyle changes
Natural products
Clinical treatment
Takeaway
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Overview
We may wish for perfectly smooth, even skin, but many of us have uneven skin tones. This may take the form of redness, acne scars, age spots, or sun damage, which can cause blemishes or patches of color on the skin. Uneven skin can be temporary or permanent, and may result from:
sun exposure
age
medications
hormones
Fortunately, no matter what the cause of your uneven skin, there are plenty of remedies to help you smooth out your complexion.
Lifestyle changes to even out complexion
There are a number of different lifestyle changes you can make to improve the appearance of your skin.
Stay hydrated
Keeping your skin — and your body — hydrated will do wonders for your skin. Drinking water hydrates your body from the inside out. Applying moisturizer helps soothe skin, resolving dryness and redness. Choose noncomedogenic moisturizers like CeraVe to prevent skin irritation and clogged pores.
Don’t forget to moisturize all of your skin, and not just your face. Using moisturizer on your hands can help prevent and soothe age spots over time. Check out these 10 great moisturizers for dry skin.
Use sunscreen
Use sunscreen regularly to prevent sun damage to your skin. Not only will this prevent immediate redness and peeling from sunburns, it will also prevent the formation of age spots. Wear sunscreen every time you’ll be in the sun and choose a facial moisturizer that has SPF for daily use. Not sure what SPF you should use? This guide can help.
Avoid certain foods and drinks
Certain foods can trigger flushed, uneven complexions. Some, like sugary snacks, may even speed up development of wrinkles and age spots. Avoiding them can help to preserve that even skin tone you’re looking for. Foods to avoid include:
alcohol, which can cause the blood vessels to dilate and lead to a flushed face
spicy foods, which can increase redness
foods high in refined sugars, which can cause wrinkles
nonorganic dairy that may contain growth hormones
processed foods like chips
greasy foods
Natural ingredients for more even skin
There are plenty of different natural remedies that you can use at home to even out skin tone. Many high-end beauty products contain these as active ingredients.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C is an antioxidant and can protect against free radical damage that can cause tissue damage, resulting in uneven skin tone. You can take supplements, or find vitamin C in foods like:
oranges
guava
bell peppers
kiwis
strawberries
Niacin
Niacin is a nutrient that’s essential for skin, hair, and nail health. It can help restore uneven skin tone, reduce wrinkles, and brighten your complexion. It does this by helping to improve skin hydration. Niacin can be found in foods like:
poultry
green peas
mushrooms
tuna
Lemon juice
Lemon juice can be an effective spot remover and skin lightener. Apply freshly-squeezed lemon juice to the affected area at least twice a day until you see the results you’re looking for.
Witch hazel
Witch hazel is soothing, with anti-inflammatory properties that can reduce irritation and redness. You can apply witch hazel topically directly to the skin, or find it in products like lotions, toners, or soaps.
Rosehip
Rosehip oil can help reduce discoloration from age spots or scarring, and actively prevent wrinkles. It’s thought that the antioxidants it contains fight free radical damage and simultaneously boost collagen production. You can apply rosehip oil directly to the skin for maximum benefits.
Nigella sativa
Nigella sativa oil — also known as blackseed oil — can help treat skin infections thanks to its antibacterial and antifungal properties. It also has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which can help even out the skin tone and make your skin softer and more supple. One study even suggested that it was effective at decreasing vitiligo, with no serious side effects.
Kojic acid
Kojic acid is found in many over-the-counter products thanks to its powerful antioxidant properties. It’s been found to be safe at a concentration of 2 percent in cosmetic products. It’s often used as a skin lightening treatment.
Chemical peels
There are several different options for chemical peels. You can purchase some products directly from the manufacturer to use at home. These may include peels that contain low doses of glycolic acid and salicylic acid. Both can be done at home and in-office.
You should avoid these peels if you have sensitive skin or are currently using any type of acne product. This includes both topical products like retinol and oral medications like Accutane. Here are more tips for doing a chemical peel at home.
Glycolic acid
Glycolic acid can , scars, sun spots, age spots, and wrinkles. It works by penetrating the top layers of the skin with a chemical solution and causes it to exfoliate, revealing healthier new skin underneath.
Salicylic acid
Salicylic acid is an ingredient found in many over-the-counter acne treatments. Slightly more mild than glycolic acid, it also to remove damaged skin cells. It can help treat:
acne
scarring
discoloration
Medical options
There are some treatment options that will only be available through a prescription from your healthcare provider. These can be more expensive, but can help treat stubborn problems that home remedies aren’t working on.
4 percent hydroquinone
This is a cream that should be applied to the affected area twice a day, or as your healthcare provider directs. It’s a skin bleaching cream that can help lighten dark spots on the skin, evening out the skin tone.
This cream may cause skin irritation or contact dermatitis. If you’re experiencing pain, redness, or sustained dryness, talk to your skin care professional about other treatment options.
Laser treatment
Laser treatments are being used to help improve skin tones, with the ability to lighten scars or age and sun spots. Yellow lasers, for example, are used to flatten scars and reduce redness in them.
Sometimes, laser treatments may cause hyperpigmentation, or a change in skin color. Because of this, you may want to try other treatment options first.
Clinical strength peels
Clinical strength peels come in three levels: light, medium, and deep. They work by penetrating your skin with a chemical solution, causing the skin to exfoliate and peel before revealing new and beautiful skin.
Light peels use more gentle acids, like salicylic acids, and can be done quickly. Medium peels may require sedatives or pain relievers, and deep peels require sedation as they use phenol.
The recovery time for deep peels can last up to two weeks, though you may have redness for several months. A light peel has a short recovery time of just several days.
Professional microdermabrasion
Microdermabrasion can treat a number of skin conditions, including light scarring, sun damage, and discoloration. It works by helping to thicken the collagen in your skin while removing the thicker, damaged outer layer, creating a more youthful appearance.
There’s almost no down time for microdermabrasion. You may experience some redness, dryness, or peeling for several days following the procedure.
Makeup
If you need an immediate solution for uneven skin tone, there are plenty of great makeup options. These include:
Foundations, which offer thick coverage that’s meant to be used on the whole face to even out skin tone.
Tinted moisturizers, which come in skin-toned tints and green tints. Green tints are ideal for those dealing with minor redness. These don’t offer the full coverage of foundation, but can help with minor unevenness.
Concealers, which are designed to cover blemishes or skin discolorations.
The takeaway
If you want to even out your skin tone, there are a number of great remedies you can try at home, including lifestyle changes and natural ingredients.
In some cases, you’ll need to see a healthcare provider or skin care specialist. If you’re experiencing any blemishes or unevenness that may be caused by an underlying condition, make an appointment right away. These conditions include:
moles or blemishes that could be skin cancer
psoriasis
severe acne that isn’t responding to home treatment
rosacea
If home remedies haven’t been working for you after one month and you want to see more results, make an appointment with your healthcare provider or skin care specialist — they’ll likely be able to help.
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN on October 26, 2017 — Written by Ana Gotter
related stories
The 5 Best Oils for Your Skin
How to Get Rid of Dark Spots on the Face
5 Natural Products to Get Rid of Acne Scars
A Closer Look at Blackheads vs. Whiteheads—Causes, Treatment, and More
What's Causing My Skin to Flush?
READ THIS NEXT
The 5 Best Oils for Your Skin
Medically reviewed by Catherine Hannan, MD
Traditional lotions not doing the trick? Try one of these oils packed with antioxidants and vitamins to help your skin look and feel better.
READ MORE
How to Get Rid of Dark Spots on the Face
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
There are many products for dark spots in the market, but they aren't all created equal. Here's what you need to know to choose the best one for you.
READ MORE
5 Natural Products to Get Rid of Acne Scars
Skip the expensive creams and lotions. Cheaper, natural products have just as strong a record for treating acne scars.
READ MORE
A Closer Look at Blackheads vs. Whiteheads—Causes, Treatment, and More
Learn more about how blackheads and whiteheads develop, treatment options, and five myths about acne.
READ MORE
What's Causing My Skin to Flush?
Skin flushing is a relatively common response to extreme emotions, but it can also be a sign of an underlying medical issue, such as Cushing syndrome…
READ MORE
Is Translucent Skin Normal?
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Translucent or porcelain skin can occur naturally based on genetics. Some very pale or see-through skin is the result of a disease or condition such…
READ MORE
How Many Different Kinds of Facial Blemishes Are There?
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Whiteheads, blackheads, pimples, and pustules are just a few of the many types of blemishes that can appear on the skin. Find out what causes…
READ MORE
Top 7 Foods That Can Cause Acne
Written by Erica Julson, MS, RDN, CLT
Recent research shows that diet can play a role in acne development. These 7 foods can all cause acne.
READ MORE
What Causes Dark Underarms, and How Are They Treated?
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD, MPH
Your underarms should be a shade similar to the rest of your skin. If they're darker, it may be a sign of an underlying condition. Here's what to look…
READ MORE
What Causes Sallow Skin and How Is It Treated?
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Sallow skin refers to skin that has lost its natural complexion. Your skin may appear yellow or brown in tone, especially on your face. Here's why.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 135268 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560