Ankle Arthritis Medical Treatments | Arthritis-Health
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Sports-health.com
Arthritis Types
Living with Arthritis
Treatment
Surgery
Forums
Arthritis Types
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Living with Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Coping with Fatigue
Managing Depression
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Arthritis Specialists
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Medications
Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Shoulder Surgery
Forums
All Forums
Alternative Treatments Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Exercises Forum
Medications Forum
Osteoarthritis Forum
Rheumatoid Arthritis Forum
Surgery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find an Arthritis Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Types
Osteoarthritis
Ankle Osteoarthritis Medical Treatments
Ankle Osteoarthritis Medical Treatments
share pin it Newsletters
By Dean L. Sorrento, DPM
|
Peer Reviewed
Osteoarthritis Video
When lifestyle changes are not enough, non-surgical medical interventions can help ease the symptoms of ankle arthritis.
Shoe Inserts
Cushioning shoe inserts can reduce the pressure put on the ankle joint when walking as well as discourage ankle rolling. A doctor can recommend appropriate premade inserts or custom inserts. A doctor may also recommend “rocker” shoes, which have soles rounded from front to back. The rounded soles require less flexion of the ankle while walking; however, some people find rocker soles difficult to get used to and are less stable wearing them.21
Article continues below
Advertisement
Orthopedic Supportive Devices (Orthotic Devices)
Certain orthopedic products may be used to help stabilize or take pressure off the ankle. Some examples include:
Elastic braces that wrap around the ankle and foot, providing more ankle support.
A hard plastic brace that wraps around the back of the ankle and bottom of the foot, limiting ankle mobility and reducing pain.
A cane (used on the opposite side of the affected ankle) or a walker may be necessary for people with end-stage ankle arthritis.
Physical Therapy
A physical therapist can teach an ankle osteoarthritis patient specific exercises to stretch the ankle joint’s soft-tissues and build surrounding muscles, thereby increasing the support strength of the joint and making it less prone to further cartilage loss. In contrast to treatment for hip osteoarthritis and knee osteoarthritis, which emphasizes physical therapy, little has been written regarding physical therapy for ankle arthritis. Generally speaking, a physical therapy program to treat ankle arthritis should progress gradually and take into account the patient’s specific needs and co-existing conditions.
In This Article:
What Is Ankle Osteoarthritis?
Ankle Joint Anatomy and Osteoarthritis
Ankle Osteoarthritis Symptoms
Ankle Osteoarthritis Causes
Ankle Osteoarthritis Diagnosis
Ankle Osteoarthritis Lifestyle Changes
Ankle Osteoarthritis Medical Treatments
Ankle Osteoarthritis Injections
Ankle Osteoarthritis Surgery
Medications
Joint Pain Caused by Arthritis Video
The medications listed below can be used to alleviate symptoms and slow the progression of ankle osteoarthritis. Doctor and patient should discuss medication in the context of the patient’s lifestyle, severity of pain and medical history. Potential side effects and interaction with other drugs and vitamins/supplements should also be considered.
Oral analgesics. Pain relievers, such as acetaminophen (e.g., the active ingredient in Tylenol) have relatively few side effects and relieve pain.
Oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Anti-inflammatory medications, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (e.g., Advil), naproxen (e.g., Aleve), or cox-2 inhibitors (e.g., Celebrex) may reduce pain, swelling, and inflammation caused by ankle osteoarthritis.
Topical medications. Topical medications come in the form of creams, sprays, gels and patches and are applied directly to the skin over the painful joint.
Topical analgesics. The creams contain counterirritants, such as wintergreen and eucalyptus, which stimulate the nerve endings and distract the brain from joint pain. These creams are often sold over the counter and are available in most drug stores. Examples of brand names include Ben-Gay, Icy-Hot and Zostrix. Most can be used in combination with oral pain medications.
See Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
Topical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Research shows topical medications containing the NSAID diclofenac may relieve isolated pain due to knee and hand osteoarthritis.22 Like topical analgesics, topical NSAID creams should be applied directly to the painful ankle. Topical NSAIDs are sold under the names Voltaren, Flector, Pennsaid, and Solaraze and require a prescription.
See Over-the-Counter Topical Arthritis Pain Relief
Lidocaine patches. Adhesive patches containing 5% lidocaine can be applied directly to the arthritic ankle and may reduce or alleviate osteoarthritis pain.23 Lidocaine is a topical numbing agent that interrupts pain signals to the brain. These patches are available only with a prescription.
See Prescription Topical Arthritis Pain Relief
Topical medications may be a good choice for people who want to minimize the gastrointestinal side effects sometimes caused by oral medications. However, side effects are still possible. Patients should always discuss new medications with their doctor or pharmacist and read drug labels and instructions.
For some patients, lifestyle changes and medical treatments listed above may not be enough, and injections may be considered.
References:
Albright BC, Woodhull-Smith WM. Rocker bottom soles alter the postural response to backward translation during stance. Gait Posture. 2009 Jul;30(1):45-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2009.02.012. Epub 2009 Mar 28. PubMed PMID: 19329317.
Derry S, Moore RA, Rabbie R. Topical NSAIDs for chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Sep 12;9:CD007400. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD007400.pub2. Review. PubMed PMID: 22972108.
Gammaitoni AR, Galer BS, Onawola R, Jensen MP, Argoff CE. Lidocaine patch 5% and its positive impact on pain qualities in osteoarthritis: results of a pilot 2-week, open-label study using the Neuropathic Pain Scale. Curr Med Res Opin 2004;20 Suppl 2:S13-9. PubMed PMID: 15563742.
Next Page: Ankle Osteoarthritis Injections
Pages:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Editor's Top Picks
Osteoarthritis Treatment
Exercising with Arthritis
Types of Arthritis
Foot and Ankle Rheumatoid Arthritis Video
Joint Pain Caused by Arthritis Video
Arthritis Treatment Specialists
Osteoarthritis Topics
Osteoarthritis
Overview
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
AC Joint Osteoarthritis
Ankle Osteoarthritis
Hand Osteoarthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis
Knee Osteoarthritis
Shoulder Osteoarthritis
Spinal Osteoarthritis
Videos
advertisement
advertisement
Latest
Top Videos
Top Articles
What Is Hyaluronic Acid?
Hyaluronic Acid Injections for Knee Osteoarthritis
Do Hyaluronic Acid Injections Work for Knee Osteoarthritis?
Hyaluronic Acid Injection for Knee Osteoarthritis: Procedure and Risks
Knee Exercises for Arthritis
Lumbar Osteoarthritis Video
Learn how osteoarthritis occurs and how it can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video
Learn how bone spurs occur and how they can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Ankylosing Spondylitis Video
Watch an overview of the development and progression of ankylosing spondylitis.
Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
What Is Pannus?
Hand Pain and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Integrative Medicine for Arthritis Pain Relief
Dietary Supplements for Treating Arthritis
Turmeric and Curcumin for Arthritis
Sacroiliac Joint Pain and Inflammation
Applying Heat vs. Cold to an Arthritic Joint
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Arthritis Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Image Gallery
Find a Joint Pain Specialist
Find an Arthritis Center
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Arthritis-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Arthritis-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding arthritis and arthritis related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.019