Achilles tendon pain: Causes. when to see a doctor, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What causes Achilles tendon pain?
Last reviewed	 Tue 26 March 2019	 Last reviewed	Tue 26 Mar 2019
By Aaron Kandola
Reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Table of contents
Causes
When to see a doctor
Diagnosis
Treatment
Prevention
Summary
The Achilles tendon connects the heel bone to the calf muscles at the back of the ankle. Pain in this tendon can result from a tear or rupture of the tendon or from tendinitis, which doctors may also refer to as tendinosis or tendinopathy.
The Achilles tendon is a bundle of strong fibers that support the calf and ankle during movement. Because the Achilles tendon is essential for walking, running, and jumping, it is very prone to wear and tear. Injuries to this tendon tend to be uncomfortable and can restrict a person's movement.
In this article, we discuss the causes of Achilles tendon pain and when to see a doctor. We also cover diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.
Causes
The two main causes of Achilles tendon pain are a tear or rupture to to the tendon and tendinitis. We discuss both of these causes below:
Tear or rupture
A tear or rupture can cause Achilles tendon pain.
It is possible for a person to tear the fibers of an Achilles tendon. This type of injury can either be:
a partial tear, where some of the fibers remain intact
a complete tear, where the tendon ruptures and all the fibers become disconnected
A tear or rupture is usually the result of excessive or repetitive stress on the ankle and feet. People who play sports that require rapid changes of pace or direction, such as tennis, football, and soccer, often incur injuries to the Achilles tendon.
These types of injury are also more likely when a person first starts a new sport or returns to an activity after a prolonged break. Sudden increases in exercise intensity can also lead to Achilles tendon injuries.
Symptoms of a tear or rupture can include:
a popping or snapping sound at the time of the injury
pain in the heel or back of the leg
pain that worsens when moving the ankle or foot
swelling around the heel
stiffness in the legs and heel
difficulty walking or moving the foot
Achilles tendinitis
Achilles tendinitis is a condition where the tendon becomes inflamed. There are two main types:
Noninsertional Achilles tendinitis. This is where the fibers in the middle of the tendon become inflamed. This condition is more common in younger people.
Insertional Achilles tendinitis. In this type, the inflammation affects the fibers in the lower tendon. It can occur in anyone but often results from intense physical activity over several years, such as long-distance running.
Both types of Achilles tendinitis typically result from overuse of the tendon, rather than from a specific injury. Tendinitis can develop gradually over time when a person regularly places too much strain on the tendon.
Risk factors for developing Achilles tendinitis can include:
sudden changes in a person's activity levels or the intensity or type of activity
using inappropriate footwear, such as running in flat shoes
frequent or excessive activity
exercising on uneven surfaces
older age
being overweight
insufficient muscle strength in the lower legs
foot abnormalities, such as flat feet
taking fluoroquinolones, which are a type of antibiotic
Symptoms of Achilles tendinitis can include:
pain and stiffness in the ankle and legs
pain that worsens when moving the foot or ankle
swelling at the back of the ankle
bone spurs, which are bony growths near the heel bone
When to see a doctor
Partial tears of the Achilles tendon may not require medical treatment. If the symptoms are mild, the injury may heal itself with enough rest. However, it is advisable to see a doctor for severe pain or injuries that disrupt a person's normal daily functioning.
People who notice a popping or snapping sound at the time of injury should see a doctor immediately.
Tendinitis: Symptoms, causes, and treatment
One possible cause of Achilles tendon pain is tendinitis. Learn more about tendinitis here.
Read now
Diagnosis
A doctor may request an X-ray to help make a diagnosis.
A doctor will typically begin by asking about symptoms and reviewing a person's medical history. They will then usually perform a physical examination of the affected leg.
Symptoms of Achilles tendon problems can overlap with other types of injury, such as a sprained ankle, which can make it challenging for doctors to diagnose.
To help with their diagnosis, a doctor may recommend an X-ray or MRI scan. These tests create an image of the bones, ligaments, and tendons and allow the doctor to check for problems, such as tears or inflammation.
Treatment
Treatment for Achilles tendon pain depends on the type and severity of the injury.
For people with mild injuries, treatment typically involves:
resting the foot and ankle while the tendon heals
applying an icepack or cold compress on the tendon for up to 20 minutes several times a day
taking over-the-counter pain relievers, such as ibuprofen and acetaminophen
A doctor may also recommend physical therapy to help strengthen the calf muscle, reduce pressure on the tendon, and aid recovery.
For example, eccentric strength training is an effective way to treat Achilles tendon injuries. These exercises involve lengthening and tightening the Achilles tendon at the same time.
At first, it is important for a person to do these exercises with the help of a physical therapist. However, with practice, it may be possible to continue the exercises at home without supervision.
Wearing supportive footwear, such as specially-designed walking boots or orthopedic shoes, is another treatment option for Achilles tendon pain. It is also possible to adapt existing footwear by using heel lifts, for example.
Even with effective treatment, it can take between 3 and 6 months for symptoms to disappear.
If symptoms get worse or do not improve, a doctor may recommend surgery. A surgeon may lengthen the calf muscles or remove damaged parts of the tendon. The type of surgery will depend on the nature of a person's injury.
Less commonly, a doctor may prescribe steroidal injections or extracorporeal shockwave therapy before recommending surgery. Research also shows that an injection of platelet-rich plasma can help improve healing in people with Achilles tendinopathy.
Prevention
Warming up before exercise can help reduce the risk of injury to the Achilles tendon.
Preventing an Achilles tendon pain is not always possible.
However, the following tips may help a person reduce the risk of injuring their Achilles tendon:
staying in good physical shape
avoiding sudden changes in exercise intensity or regime
building up exercise intensity gradually
warming up properly before exercising
wearing appropriate footwear
avoiding exercising or training on uneven surfaces or hard surfaces such as concrete
Summary
Causes of Achilles tendon pain include Achilles tendinitis and tears or ruptures to the tendon. These conditions are common in people who play sports and typically occur from excessive use of the calf muscles but can also result from acute injuries.
Factors that can increase a person's risk of injuring an Achilles tendon include sudden changes in type or intensity of physical intensity, inappropriate footwear, or being overweight.
People who notice a popping or snapping sound at the time of the injury should seek immediate medical treatment. Also, see a doctor for severe or ongoing Achilles tendon pain.
Treatment options for Achilles injuries include rest and physical therapy. For people with more severe injuries, a doctor may recommend surgery.
Related coverage
Why does my ankle hurt? Many things can cause a person's ankle to hurt, including injuries and medical conditions. In this article, we look at the causes, symptoms, and treatments for ankle pain. Read now
What causes calf muscle pain? Calf muscle pain is often caused by overuse or a sports injury. However, it can also indicate an underlying medical issue, including deep vein thrombosis or diabetic neuropathy. Learn more about the causes of calf muscle pain, as well as what stretches can provide relief and when you should see a doctor. Read now
What can I do about Achilles tendinitis? The Achilles tendon runs down the back of the lower leg and joins the calf muscles to the heel bone. It is the largest tendon in the body and is very strong. Running and other high impact activities can inflame the Achilles tendon, causing pain. Learn how to treat it with stretches, exercise, medication, and rest. Read now
Why do my muscles feel sore after exercise? Exercise and sore muscles go hand-in-hand, but a particularly challenging workout or new routine can take this pain to another level. Find out why. Read now
What is tendinosis? In this article, learn about the symptoms, causes, and treatments for tendinosis, as well as what makes it different from tendinitis. Read now
email email
print
share share
Sports Medicine / Fitness
Bones / Orthopedics Pain / Anesthetics
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 26 March 2019.
Visit our Sports Medicine / Fitness category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Sports Medicine / Fitness.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Achilles tendinitis. (2010). https://orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/diseases--conditions/achilles-tendinitis/
Achilles tendon disorders. (n.d.). https://www.foothealthfacts.org/conditions/achilles-tendon-disorders
Achilles tendon injuries. (n.d.). https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/physical_medicine_and_rehabilitation/achilles_tendon_injuries_134,215
Achilles tendon rupture (tear). (2012). https://orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/diseases--conditions/achilles-tendon-rupture-tear-video/
Filardo, G., et al.. (2014). Platelet-rich plasma injections for the treatment of refractory Achilles tendinopathy: Results at 4 years. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4212034/
O'Neill, S. et al. (2015). Why are eccentric exercises effective for Achilles tendinopathy? https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4527202/
O'Neill, S. et al. (2016). A Delphi study of risk factors for Achilles tendinopathy-opinions of world tendon experts. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5046962/
Singh, D. (2015). Acute Achilles tendon rupture [Abstract]. https://www.bmj.com/content/351/bmj.h4722
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Kandola, Aaron. "What causes Achilles tendon pain?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 26 Mar. 2019. Web.
25 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324800.php>
APA
Kandola, A. (2019, March 26). "What causes Achilles tendon pain?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324800.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
This common food additive may fuel weight gain, diabetes
A new research study links the common anti-mold food additive propionate to blood sugar metabolism and insulin resistance in human volunteers and mice.
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
How the brain adapts to hear better after vision loss
Researchers look at what happens in the brains of people with vision loss to understand what allows them to hear better than their fully sighted peers.
Popular in: Sports Medicine / Fitness
How to strengthen the lower back
Best exercises and remedies for plantar fasciitis
Increased muscle power may prolong life
Causes and home remedies for toe cramps
What causes knee buckling?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324800.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);