20 Best Evening Primrose Oil Supplements (April 2019) | Onlinestrength
Evening Primrose Oil
Top 10 Evening Primrose Oil Supplements
Evening Primrose Oil Rankings | Highest Rated Brands
01 Pure Encapsulations Evening Primrose Oil
02 Vital Nutrients Evening Primrose Oil
03 Bluebonnet Nutrition Evening Primrose Oil
04 Oregon’s Wild Harvest Evening Primrose Oil
05 Standard Process MediHerb Evening Primrose Oil
06 GNC Women’s Evening Primrose Oil
07 Source Naturals Evening Primrose Oil
08 Sports Research High Potency Evening Primrose
09 Solgar Evening Primrose Oil
10 Solaray Evening Primrose Oil
Evening Primrose Oil Summary
All Evening Primrose Oil Benefits/Effects/Facts & Information
Evening Primrose Oil (EPO) is an extract derived from the seeds of the evening primrose plant. The evening primrose is native to the United States and Canada, and has been used in human health primarily for the concentration of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) in the seeds.
GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid that is essential for proper growth and development. Additionally, it converts to a prostaglandin known as PGE1, which is important in regulating the dilation and constriction of blood vessels. PGE1 has also been used to treat infants that have congenital heart defects. When combined with fish oil, evening primrose oil also helped to enhance bone formation.
In addition, the GLA from evening primrose oil can be used therapeutically for various symptoms. For example, it has been used to treat eczema and rheumatoid arthritis. Studies have shown that supplementing with evening primrose oil provides an effective dose of GLA to reduce inflammation and increase GLA content in people with eczema, who may have more trouble processing fatty acids. The anti-inflammatory benefits of GLA also help to improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and other diseases characterized by inflammation.
Some studies suggest that GLA can also help to treat symptoms of diabetes mellitus, high cholesterol, and alcohol withdrawal. Preliminary research shows that GLA may reduce diabetic neuropathy and increase levels of HDL (good cholesterol) while reducing LDL levels (bad cholesterol). Additionally, one study showed that regularly consuming large amounts of alcohol may lead to decreased levels of GLA and PGE1. Therefore, supplementing with evening primrose oil helped with the recovery process for those who ceased alcohol consumption.
Evening Primrose Oil Benefits:
Provides gamma-linolenic acid (GLA)
Promotes proper growth and development
Protects cardiovascular health through PGE1 production
Reduces inflammation
Improves symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and eczema
Promotes proper bone formation when combined with fish oil
May reduce diabetic neuropathy
May reduce overall cholesterol, increase HDL levels and decrease LDL levels
May improve alcohol withdrawal symptoms
Things To Know About Evening Primrose Oil
Evening Primrose Oil Is Also Known As
Oenothera biennis, EPO, Primrose Oil
Things To Note About Evening Primrose Oil
Evening primrose oil contains 7-10% GLA. Dosage must therefore be adjusted to get the desired amount of GLA per serving.
Aside from GLA, the body requires nutrients such as magnesium, niacin, and vitamin C to produce PGE1. If using evening primrose oil to increase production of PGE1, a physician should be consulted to determine if additional supplementation may be necessary.
Evening primrose oil may have side effects for those with epilepsy. A physician should be consulted if considering supplementing with this condition.
How To Take Evening Primrose Oil
Recommended Evening Primrose Oil Dosage, Active Amounts, Other Details
There is no standard dose for evening primrose oil.
Studies have used doses of 3-6g daily in order to obtain 270-540mg of GLA.
Latest stories
Source Naturals Evening Primrose Oil
Solgar Evening Primrose Oil
GNC Women’s Evening Primrose Oil
Jarrow Formulas Evening Primrose
Oregon’s Wild Harvest Evening Primrose Oil
Nature’s Way EfaGold Evening Primrose
NOW Foods Super Primrose
Standard Process MediHerb Evening Primrose Oil
Country Life Evening Primrose Oil
Ortho Molecular Evening Primrose Oil
Load More
Congratulations. You've reached the end of the internet.
Shop
Supplements
Learn
About Us
Our Reviewing Process
Our Rating Process
Connect
Contact Us
Legal
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer: All content and information is strictly the opinion of onlinestrength.com and is to be used for informational and educational purposes only. onlinestrength.com is not to be used as a provider for medical advice or a replacement to a personal physician. All viewers of this content are advised to consult their qualified health care professional regarding health concerns and questions. Onlinestrength.com nor the publisher of this content responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content should consult their physician before making any changes to their nutrition, supplementation, and lifestyle.
Advertisement Disclosure: Onlinestrength.com has an advertising relationship with some of the offers included on this page, if you click on or buy something via a link on this page, we may earn a commission.
©2019 OnlineStrength.com | All rights reserved.
Back to Top
Close
Search for:
Search