Osteoarthritis Medications Options: Analgesics, NSAIDs, Acetaminophen, Cox-2 Inhibitors
Skip to main content
Arthritis-health.com Sports-health.com
Conditions
Treatment
Wellness
Forums
Conditions
Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Degenerative Disc Disease
Herniated Disc
Lower Back Pain
Neck Pain
Osteoporosis
Sciatica
Spinal Stenosis
All Conditions
Treatment
Alternative Care
Artificial Disc Replacement
Back Surgery
Chiropractic
Injections
Pain Management
Pain Medication
Physical Therapy
Spinal Fusion
All Treatments
Wellness
Ergonomics
Exercise
Massage Therapy
Nutrition, Diet, and Weight Loss
Sleep
Stop Smoking
Yoga, Pilates, and Tai Chi
All Wellness
Forums
All Forums
Arthritis/Osteoarthritis Forum
Back Surgery and Neck Surgery Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Lower Back Pain Forum
Neck Pain Forums
Pain Management Forum
Pain Medications Forum
Surgery Recovery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find a Spine Center
Videos
Education Centers
Free Newsletters
You are here
Conditions
Arthritis
Osteoarthritis Medications
Osteoarthritis Medications
share pin it Newsletters
By Vert Mooney, MD
|
Peer Reviewed
Osteoarthritis Video
Many different medications are used to control the pain associated with spinal arthritis. Two important factors that must be considered in medications are the level of the patient's pain and the potential side effects of the medication. Even nonprescription drugs should be checked for side effects.
Acetaminophen
For mild pain and discomfort without inflammation, over-the-counter acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) may be sufficient treatment. Acetaminophen does not reduce inflammation, but is an effective pain reliever and is less likely to cause stomach problems than NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen or aspirin), especially among elderly patients or people prone to stomach problems.
See Acetaminophen for Back Pain
For these reasons, acetaminophen is generally the preferred initial drug given to patients with osteoarthritis. People with liver disease, people who drink alcohol heavily, and those taking blood- thinning medicines or NSAIDs, and people taking acetaminophen for more than 10 days in a row should use acetaminophen with caution and only under a doctor's care.
Article continues below
Pain-Relieving Creams, Rubs, Sprays
Pain-relieving creams, also called topical analgesics, applied to the skin over the joints can provide relief of minor arthritis pain. They are available over the counter and can often be used in conjunction with oral medications.
Examples include capsaicin (such as Arthricare, Zostrix), salicin (such as Aspercreme), methyl salicylate (such as Bengay, Icy Hot), and menthol (Flexall). Topical analgesics should not be used with other heat treatments, as the combination can cause too much heat and even burns.
In This Article:
Osteoarthritis Complete Treatment Guide
Non-Surgical Osteoarthritis Treatments
Osteoarthritis Medications
Exercise for Osteoarthritis
More Osteoarthritis Treatments
Surgery for Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis Video: Inflammation, Pain and Treatment Options
Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs)
Watch NSAIDs Video
NSAIDs are medications that are used to reduce both osteoarthritic pain and the inflammation associated with the pain in the joints. Examples of non-prescription NSAIDs include aspirin (e.g., Bayer, Ecotrin), ibuprofen (e.g., Advil, Motrin, Nuprin), and naproxen (e.g., Aleve, Naprosyn, Anaprox, Naprelan). It is sometimes possible to use NSAIDs for a while and then discontinue them for periods of time without recurrent symptoms, thereby decreasing side effect risks.
See NSAIDs: Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs
The most common side effects of NSAIDs involve gastrointestinal distress, such as stomach upset, cramping, diarrhea, ulcers and even bleeding. NSAIDs are also believed to increase the risk of serious cardiovascular conditions (such as heart attack or stroke), especially for those patients at risk for these conditions. The risk of these and other side effects increases in the elderly, when taken at higher doses, and with long term use.
Many other drugs cannot be taken when a patient is being treated with NSAIDs because NSAIDs alter the way the body uses or eliminates these other drugs. It is recommended that patients check with their health care provider or pharmacist before starting or altering an NSAIDs regimen for osteoarthritis.
Another type of NSAIDs, called COX-2 inhibitors, are available by prescription only and are designed to have fewer side effects related to the stomach and bowels than other NSAIDs. However, studies suggest that COX-2 inhibitors carry a greater risk of serious cardiovascular conditions than other NSAIDs.
See Potential Risks and Complications of Celecoxib
As of April 2005, following recommendations by the FDA, the only COX-2 inhibitor available to consumers is celecoxib (brand name Celebrex). Both valdecoxib (Bextra) and rofecoxib (Vioxx), COX-2 inhibitors used by millions of arthritis sufferers, have been discontinued pending further study on their safety. It is recommended that patients consult with their treating physician to evaluate the relative benefits and risks of COX-2 inhibitors in order to come up with the best treatment plan for their individual clinical situation.
See About Celebrex (Celecoxib), a COX-2 Inhibitor
Cortisone Injections
While oral cortisone is generally not used in treating osteoarthritis, when injected directly into the osteoarthritic spinal joints, cortisone can rapidly decrease pain and restore function.
See Cervical, Thoracic and Lumbar Facet Joint Injections
Injected glucocorticoids (also called corticosteroids, which are powerful anti-inflammatory hormones) may be used for inflammation and pain that is not responsive to NSAIDs. This type of injection is designed to reduce the inflammation, and is generally combined with an anesthetic, which in turn should help reduce the patient’s pain. Since repetitive cortisone injections can be harmful to the tissue and bones, they are reserved for patients with more pronounced symptoms and are generally not recommended for more than three treatments per year.
Article continues below
Other Medications for Spinal Arthritis
Mild narcotic painkillers can also be very effective for additional pain relief for osteoarthritis. Due to their potential for addiction, they are not used for extended periods and are not commonly prescribed.
See Opioid Pain Medications
Medications to relax muscle spasms may also be given temporarily.
Watch: Video: What Is Your Back Muscle Spasm Telling You?
Nutritional Supplements
Nutritional supplements are a relatively recent alternative treatment for osteoarthritis sufferers in the U.S., although they have been used since the 1960s in Europe. It should be noted that very little scientific information exists on nutritional supplements in relation to diseases of the spine. More study is needed on their safety and effectiveness.
Recently, the food supplements glucosamine and chondroitin have been shown to relieve symptoms of pain and stiffness for some persons with osteoarthritis. Glucosamine and chondroitin, similar to NSAIDs, have been shown to have anti-inflammatory effects. They may also inhibit the breakdown of cartilage associated with osteoarthritis and even spur cartilage growth.
See Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulfate Supplements
These supplements are available in capsule form at pharmacies and health food stores without a prescription (like vitamins), although there is no certainty about the purity of the products or the dose of the active ingredients because they are not monitored by the FDA. They are gaining in popularity as more people use them and report improvements in their osteoarthritis symptoms and relatively few negative side effects.
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate may not provide sufficient pain relief for all osteoarthritis patients. Many patients find it is best to use glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate nutritional supplements in conjunction with other nonsurgical treatments (under the guidance of their treating physician).
Upset stomach, nausea, heartburn, and diarrhea are the most commonly reported side effects. Taking glucosamine and/or chondroitin sulfate with food seems to reduce the incidence of the above side effects. Patients taking blood-thinners or daily aspirin therapy should be careful taking chondroitin as it can increase blood-thinning and cause excessive bleeding. Women who are or may become pregnant should not take glucosamine or chondroitin, as the affects on unborn children are not yet known. Those with diabetes or shellfish allergies will need to take extra precautions and may need to avoid both supplements altogether. In all cases, a doctor should first be consulted.
Fish oil supplements have also been shown to have some anti-inflammation properties and increasing dietary fish intake and/or taking fish oil capsules (omega 3 capsules) can sometimes reduce inflammation due to arthritis. Additionally, antioxidants in certain vitamins, such as vitamins C, D, and E, may also help, either via supplements or emphasized within the patient's diet.
Next Page: Exercise for Osteoarthritis
Pages:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Editor's Top Picks
Cervical Osteoarthritis (Neck Arthritis)
Treatment Options for Facet Joint Pain
Lumbar Osteoarthritis Video
Cervical Osteoarthritis Treatment
Osteoarthritis Video: Inflammation, Pain and Treatment Options
Medications for Back Pain Video
Arthritis Topics
Arthritis
Facet Joint Disorders
Arthritis Symptoms
Arthritis Treatment
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Artritis en Español
Arthritis Doctor Advice
Arthritis Images
Arthritis Videos
advertisement
advertisement
Most Popular Arthritis Articles
Osteoarthritis of the Spine
Symptoms and Diagnosis of Facet Joint Problems
Treatment Options for Facet Joint Pain
Bone Spurs (Osteophytes) and Back Pain
Facet Joint Disorders and Back Pain
Find a Doctor
Doctor Type:
Physician/SurgeonChiropractorOther Health Professional
Location:
Find a Spine Center
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Back Pain Resources
Back Conditions A-Z
Doctor Advice
Education Centers
Image Gallery
Spine-health Glossary
En Español
Find a Back Doctor
Find a Spine Center
For Spine Professionals
Become a Doctor Member
About Spine-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Sponsor Policy
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Arthritis-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Spine-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding spine and spine related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.022