Music Interventions for Dementia and Depression in ELderly care (MIDDEL): protocol and statistical analysis plan for a multinational cluster-randomised trial.
BioPortfolio
Biotech, Healthcare and Medical Resources
BioPortfolio
Menu
Loading
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology Track topics Track topics important to you
World Biotech and Healthcare News
Published Research
Market Reports
Channels
Clinical Trials
Drugs
Corporations
Advertisement
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology
Track topics on Twitter Track topics that are important to you
Printed From BioPortfolio.com
Music Interventions for Dementia and Depression in ELderly care (MIDDEL): protocol and statistical analysis plan for a multinational cluster-randomised trial.
08:00 EDT 30th March 2019 | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » Mild Cognitive impairment » Research » Music Interventions for Dementia and Depression in ELderly care (MIDDEL): protocol and statistical analysis plan for a multinational cluster-randomised trial.
Summary of "Music Interventions for Dementia and Depression in ELderly care (MIDDEL): protocol and statistical analysis plan for a multinational cluster-randomised trial."
In older adults, dementia and depression are associated with individual distress and high societal costs. Music interventions such as group music therapy (GMT) and recreational choir singing (RCS) have shown promising effects, but their comparative effectiveness across clinical subgroups is unknown. This trial aims to determine effectiveness of GMT, RCS and their combination for care home residents and to examine heterogeneity of treatment effects across subgroups.
Affiliation
Journal Details
This article was published in the following journal.
Name: BMJ open
ISSN: 2044-6055
Pages: e023436
Links
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30928926
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2018-023436
PubMed Articles [19649 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
Treatment Fidelity in a Music Therapy Multi-site Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial for People Living With Dementia: The MIDDEL Project Intervention Fidelity Protocol.
High-quality clinical trials testing music therapy interventions have become more prevalent over the past decade. However, recent reviews of published music therapy trials reveal that reporting of str...
A Comprehensive Update on Treatment of Dementia.
Treatment of dementias represents an important but relatively neglected part of neurological care of the elderly population. Individual therapeutic interventions may make only small changes to the qua...
The proactive elderly care team: dementia screening of over 20 000 patients.
The proactive elderly care team was introduced at Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in October 2012. This article describes how the team performed over 5 years (up to the end of Decem...
Meta-analysis of psychosocial interventions for people with dementia and anxiety or depression.
Assess the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions for depression and anxiety in people with dementia (PWD) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
The use of Music Therapy in the treatment of Mental Illness and the enhancement of Societal Wellbeing.
Music Therapy can be broadly described as the use of Music in a therapeutic context in order to help improve mental health. Music Therapy does not simply imply the playing of music to patients, relaxi...
Clinical Trials [15381 Associated Clinical Trials listed on BioPortfolio]
Music Interventions for Dementia and Depression in Elderly Care
This study evaluates the effectiveness of two music-based approaches - group music therapy and recreational choir singing - for reducing depression symptoms in people living with dementia....
Music for Dementia-related Sleep Problems
The study aims to evaluate the effect of listening to music at bedtime on sleep in elderly persons with dementia and sleep problems.
A Home-based Family Caregiver-delivered Music Intervention for People With Dementia: A Randomised Controlled Trial
This international study evaluates the impact of a home-based caregiver-delivered music intervention for people with dementia. Our project aims to address the need for improved informal de...
Tailored Music Therapy for Dementia
This study evaluates the effect and process of individualized music therapy for home-dwelling persons with mild to moderate dementia. The music therapy is administered individually and inc...
Movement and Music Intervention for Individuals With Dementia
The goal of the study is to learn about how possible benefits of movement and music for individuals with dementia. Individuals with dementia will participate in either a dance class or lis...
Medical and Biotech [MESH] Definitions
Perioperative Care
Interventions to provide care prior to, during, and immediately after surgery.
Music Therapy
The use of music as an adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurological, mental, or behavioral disorders.
Patient Care Bundles
Small sets of evidence-based interventions for a defined patient population and care setting.
Preconception Care
An organized and comprehensive program of health care that identifies and reduces a woman's reproductive risks before conception through risk assessment, health promotion, and interventions. Preconception care programs may be designed to include the male partner in providing counseling and educational information in preparation for fatherhood, such as genetic counseling and testing, financial and family planning, etc. This concept is different from PRENATAL CARE, which occurs during pregnancy.
Decompression
Decompression external to the body, most often the slow lessening of external pressure on the whole body (especially in caisson workers, deep sea divers, and persons who ascend to great heights) to prevent DECOMPRESSION SICKNESS. It includes also sudden accidental decompression, but not surgical (local) decompression or decompression applied through body openings.
Advertisement
Quick Links
Advanced Search | Login | Subscribe | RSS
Quick Search
Advertisement
Advertisement
Relevant Topic
Alzheimer's Disease
Of all the types of Dementia, Alzheimer's disease is the most common, affecting around 465,000 people in the UK. Neurons in the brain die, becuase 'plaques' and 'tangles' (mis-folded proteins) form in the brain. People with Al...
PubMed Database Quicklinks
Search PubMed Journal Article Database
Latest PubMed Articles
PubMed Journal List
Popular PubMed Articles
Recent Journal Article Searches
Searches Linking to this Article
BioPortfolio Limited
About Us
Contact Us
Social Media
Twitter (200+ Accounts)
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Publish Content
Publish
Publish Your Press Release
Advertise
Agreements
Agreements
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy
Tools
MyBioPortfolio
RSS
Help
FAQs
Sitemaps
XML Sitemap
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here.
The information provided by BioPortfolio.com is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The BioPortfolio site is sponsored BioPortfolio Limited with offices at Stafford House, 10 Prince of Wales Road, Dorchester, DT1 1PW, England. If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of “Fair Use” and legitimately infringes on your or your client's copyright we may be contacted concerning copyright matters here: Contact BioPortfolio.
All rights reserved. All other trademarks recognized. Copyright © 1997-2019 BioPortfolio Limited. Site developed by Alacrify Ltd.