Warts | Symptoms & Treatment for Children
Sign in to MyChart Directions Español International
Refine Search
Entire Site
Conditions & Health Topics
Clinical Services & Specialties
Doctors & Researchers
Research Institutes, Divisions, and Centers
Special Needs Resources
Clinical Studies
Visit and Directions
Physician Toolkit
Human Genetics
Patients & Family
Patients and Family Home
Clinical Services
Your Child's Condition
Visiting Cincinnati Children's
Hospital Resources
MyChart
International
Quick Links
Schedule an Appointment
Billing and Health Care Exchange
Visiting Policies
eCards
Clinical Studies
Special Needs Resources
Patient's Guide to Surgery
Subscribe to e-Newsletters
What Makes Us Different
Healthcare Professionals
Healthcare Professionals Home
Refer a Patient
Resources
Continuing Professional Education
Institutes, Divisions & Centers
Clinical Studies
Quick Links
Continuing Medical Education
Nursing
Subscribe to e-Newsletters
Conditions
MyChart
Neighborhood Locations
Outcomes and Quality
Family-Centered Rounds
Clinical Laboratories
Researchers
Research Home
Research at Cincinnati Children's
Institutes, Divisions & Centers
Research Cores
Education & Training Programs
Research Support Services
Clinical Trials
Quick Links
Research Annual Report
Cincinnati Children's Research Foundation
Research Horizons
Professional Education
Professional Education Home
Clinical Programs
Research Programs
Funded Training
Community Education & Events
Quick Links
Pediatric Residency Program
Graduate Medical Education
Clinical Fellowship Programs
Specialty Residency Programs
PhD Training Programs
Student & Graduate Programs
Genetics Education Nursing Program
About
About Home
Mission and Vision
Awards and Recognition
Careers
Our History
Contact Us
Quick Links
Outcomes and Quality
Visiting Cincinnati Children's
What Makes Us Different
Newsroom
Critical Care Building
Other Languages
Make a Referral
Giving
Giving Home
Make a Gift
Events
Volunteer
Stay Connected
Shop to Give
Contact Us
Quick Links
Critical Care Campaign
Stories of Hope and Giving
Champions: Share Your Story
Community Fundraisers
Plan a Future Gift
Corporate & Foundation Giving
Donate Toys & Other Items
Gift Shop
Create an Online Personal Page
Warts
Home
Health Topics
W
Warts
Recommend Email
Print
Find Another Condition or Treatment
Warts
Warts, or verruca, are a very common, harmless skin infection caused by a virus. For reasons that are not entirely clear, children seem to develop warts more often than adults. This is NOT a sign of a problem with the immune system. You can lessen the spread of warts by discouraging picking, biting or scratching.
Show All
SymptomsShow
There are several types of warts:
Filiform warts − look like small “skin tags.” They often show up on areas such as the eyelids and around the mouth and nose.
Common warts − look like rough bumps on the skin. They are often seen on the hands but can be seen anywhere on the skin. They may bleed if picked at.
Plantar warts − look like rough patches on the soles of the feet. They are often painful and can grow very large.
Flat warts − look like very small flat, smooth bumps. They are often seen on the face.
TreatmentShow
Most warts go away on their own within several months to years, so treatment may not be needed for many children. In general, surgical excision and cautery are no longer recommended in most instances or covered by insurance plans, as they have been shown to increase the likelihood of localized spread. There is no treatment guaranteed to cure warts. If your primary care provider recommends treatment, it is important that you follow the instructions exactly as suggested. In general, using two or more treatments at a time is more likely to be successful.
Initial treatment with topical salicylic acid and medical tape is usually recommended. Solutions of 17 percent salicylic acid are readily available over-the-counter (Compound W, etc.). First, soak warts for 5 minutes in hot water (no hotter than 110° F). Pat area dry with towel. Gently file down the wart by removing layers of dead skin with a callus file, emery board or pumice stone. Remember to use only the file or pumice stone on the wart and not on other skin areas in order to prevent spreading the warts. Then the 17 percent salicylic acid should be applied to completely cover the wart. Once the salicylic acid 17 percent is dry, the wart should be covered with air-tight, white cloth surgical tape (may also be purchased at a drug store / pharmacy). You may also use household duct tape. Every 1 to 3 days when the tape loosens or falls off, it should be removed and more 17 percent salicylic acid and tape applied until the wart is gone. If the treated skin gets irritated, stop treatment for a few days until the skin feels better, then restart if the wart is still present. Be patient! Treatment may take several months. It is important to remain consistent with treatment for best results.
Sometimes, once one or a few warts start to go away, any other warts present will also soon go away.
Referral to a SpecialistShow
Most warts in children can be managed by your primary care provider with the treatment described above or with watchful waiting without any treatment.
Referral to a specialist is generally only indicated for warts that are causing significant pain or discomfort and that have not responded to several months of consistent treatment as recommended by your primary care provider.
Your specialist may discuss these treatment options with you:
Cryotherapy (liquid nitrogen), also known as “freezing”
Topical cantharidin application
Candida antigen injections
Last Updated 06/2018
Clinical Services
Dermatology
Conditions & Treatments
Skin Conditions and Diagnoses
About Children's
About Us Careers Newsroom Events Español eCards
Your Children's
Billing Information
Schedule an Appointment
Find a Doctor / Researcher
Medical Records
Make a Referral
MyChart
Find Children's
Contact Us Locations & Directions Terms of Use / Privacy Policies Non-Discrimination Notice
3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3026 | 1-513-636-4200 | 1-800-344-2462
© 1999-2019 Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. All rights reserved.