Memory Maximizers: Homocysteine & Mental Acuity; Nuts & Cognitive Performance - University Health News
Home
Daily
Aging & Independence
Bones & Joints
Cancer
COPD
Depression
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Energy and Fatigue
Eyes, Ears, Nose & Throat
Gluten Free & Food Allergies
Heart Health
Memory
Mobility & Fitness
Nutrition
Pain
Prostate
Sleep
Stress & Anxiety
Free Guides
Bone and Joint Conditions: Gout symptoms, osteoarthritis treatments, rheumatoid arthritis pain relief, and more
Men’s Prostate Health: BPH, prostatitis and prostate cancer symptoms, screenings, treatment, and more
Panic Attack Symptoms and Anxiety Symptoms: How to deal with anxiety and how to relieve stress
Sleeping Disorders: Narcolepsy, sleep apnea test, snoring solutions, insomnia cures, and more
View all Reports »
Article Archive
Health Publications
Health Reports
My Library
Account
Authors
Browse Topics
Glossary
Keyword Index
Contact Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
Member?
Login
Home
Daily
Free Guides
Health Publications
Health Reports
My Library
Subscriber Sign In Sign Up
Memory
From the September 2014 issue of Massachusetts General Hospital's Mind, Mood, & Memory (MMM)
Memory Maximizers: Homocysteine & Mental Acuity; Nuts & Cognitive Performance
Here's the latest research to help you keep your brain sharp.
Previous
Next
Susan Jimison Vitek • September 6, 2016
Add Comment
Total: 0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Digg
Del
StumbleUpon
Tumblr
VKontakte
Print
Email
Flattr
Reddit
Buffer
Love This
Weibo
Pocket
Xing
Odnoklassniki
ManageWP.org
WhatsApp
Meneame
Blogger
Amazon
Yahoo Mail
Gmail
AOL
Newsvine
HackerNews
Evernote
MySpace
Mail.ru
Viadeo
Line
Flipboard
Comments
Yummly
SMS
Viber
Telegram
Subscribe
Skype
Facebook Messenger
Kakao
LiveJournal
Yammer
Edgar
x
Lower Homocysteine to Protect Your Mental Acuity
High blood levels of the amino acid homocysteine, which generally increase with age, have been linked with many negative health effects, including poor memory and cognition, and greater risk for dementia. Research suggests that over time, elevated homocysteine may disturb normal brain processes, lead to the accumulation of beta-amyloid and tau proteins, lead to lesions in the brain’s white matter, and promote the death of brain cells and brain atrophy. However, studies also suggest that B vitamins, omega-3 fatty acids, lifestyle changes, and other measures may help prevent a buildup of this potentially destructive byproduct of metabolic processes.
An important meta-analysis of eight studies published several years ago looked at the effects of homocysteine on risk for dementia. The meta-analysis involved more than 8,600 adults ranging in age from 47 to 81 whose homocysteine levels were measured and dementia incidence recorded, according to a paper published in the July 2011 issue of Alzheimer’s Dementia. Over a study period lasting five years or longer, the researchers found both a positive association between serum homocysteine and dementia, and also a 20 percent reduction in the risk of dementia in participants who had been treated with the B vitamins folic acid and B12. Another meta-analysis of 11 studies published the same year in the September issue of Nutrition found evidence that taking omega-3 fatty acid supplements also reduced serum homocysteine levels. Other suggestions for lowering homocysteine:
➧ See your medical care provider to discuss whether you need a test to determine your current homocysteine level, if you have not had one recently. Ask if you should consider vitamin B or ome-ga-3 supplementation.
➧ Eat a healthy, low-fat diet high in nuts and cold-water fish (good sources of omega-3 fatty acids), folate (found in fortified cereals, asparagus, leafy green vegetables, and most beans), vitamin B6 (found in chickpeas, chicken, potatoes, fortified breakfast cereals, and bananas), and vitamin B12 (found in liver and other organ meats, dairy products, beef, and certain fish).
➧ Avoid excessive consumption of coffee and alcohol. Research suggests too much of either can increase homocysteine levels.
➧ Manage health conditions that can elevate homocysteine, such as diabetes, hyperthyroidism, kidney disease, cardiovascular problems, high blood pressure, and psoriasis.
Study: Eat Nuts for Better Cognitive Performance
Including frequent snacks of nuts in your diet may be a good way to boost your cognitive performance, according to a large study published in the May 2014 issue of the Journal of Nutrition, Health & Aging. The researchers followed approximately 15,500 women aged 70 and older for six years, interviewing them about their diets and conducting periodic tests of cognitive abilities such as attention and memory recall. They found that those participants who ate five or more handfuls of nuts per week performed better on cognitive tests than those who did not eat any nuts. The difference in their scores was equivalent to about two years of age-related cognitive decline. “Higher nut intake may be related to better overall cognition at older ages, and could be an easily-modifiable public health intervention,” the researchers concluded.
Previous
Next
Article Meta Data
Tags age related cognitive decline, aging, alcohol, alzheimer, alzheimer s dementia, b vitamins, b12, beta amyloid, blood pressure, brain, brain atrophy, breakfast, cardiovascular, cardiovascular problems, coffee, cognitive decline, cognitive performance, dairy, dementia, diabetes, diet, folate, health, high blood pressure, high blood pressure and, homocysteine, homocysteine levels, hyperthyroidism, low fat diet, memory, nutrition, nuts, omega 3, omega 3 fatty acids, potatoes, psoriasis, supplements, vegetables, vitamin, vitamin b12, vitamin b6, vitamins.
Comments
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Comment
TABLE OF CONTENTS
For Your Mind’s Sake—Get a Move On!
Quiet Time Holds Little Appeal for Many of Us
News Briefs: Benefits of Cocoa Extract; Parkinson’s Disease; Depression; Stroke
Ketamine: A Breakthrough Therapy for Treatment-resistant Depression?
Balance Your Mineral Intake to Strengthen Your Brain
Memory Maximizers: Homocysteine & Mental Acuity; Nuts & Cognitive Performance
Cognitive Impairment after Critical Illness Can Be Severe
Ask the Doctor: Prednisone & Mood Changes; Head Injury Symptoms; Mental Effects of Hypothyroidism
×
Enter Your Log In Credentials
Email
Password
Remember Me
This setting should only be used on your home or work computer.
Lost password? Create New Password
No password? Sign up
×
×
Please Log In
You are trying to access subscribers-only content. If you are a subscriber, use the form below to log in.
Subscribers will have unlimited access to the magazine that helps people live more sustainable, self-reliant lives, with feature stories on tending the garden, managing the homestead, raising healthy livestock and more!
Username
Password
Remember Me
This setting should only be used on your home or work computer.
Lost your password? Create New Password
No password? Subscribe
×
Please Log In
You are trying to access subscribers-only content. If you are a subscriber, use the form below to log in.
Subscribers will have unlimited access to the magazine that helps the small-scale poultry enthusiast raise healthy, happy, productive flocks for eggs, meat or fun - from the countryside to the urban homestead!
Username
Password
Remember Me
This setting should only be used on your home or work computer.
Lost your password? Create New Password
No password? Subscribe
Account
About Us
Privacy Policy
Author Index
Article Archive
RSS Feed
Glossary
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 University Health News
Send this to a friend
Your email Recipient email Your message
Hi,
I thought you might be interested in this article on https://universityhealthnews.com: Memory Maximizers: Homocysteine & Mental Acuity; Nuts & Cognitive Performance
-- Read the story at https://universityhealthnews.com/topics/memory-topics/memory-maximizers-homocysteine-nuts-cognitive-performance/
Send
Cancel