Devoid Of Culture And Indifferent To The Arts: Foraging: Evening Primrose (Oenothera biennis)
Wednesday, August 15, 2012
Foraging: Evening Primrose (Oenothera biennis)
Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities. Truth isn't. – Mark Twain
An unassuming sort of flower, for what it may be able to do.
This flower isn’t really all that much to look at. It’s kind of pretty but plain and the plant it grows on isn’t much of a looker either. Why it’s important is because of its potential medical possibilities. That, and you can eat it.
There are several different kinds of evening primrose. In Nova Scotia we have Oenothera biennis.
Oenothera biennis is a biennial native to eastern and central North America, ranging from Newfoundland in the east, Alberta in the west, Florida in the southeast, and Texas in the southwest. It has also made itself a home in other temperate areas on the planet.
Biennial plants have a lifespan of two years. The first year they form a “basal” (flat to the ground) rosette of leaves. The second year they bloom, disperse seed and die. Evening primroses like dry, sandy soil and can be found in open areas, often where soil has been recently disturbed.
Clearly visible seed pods, as yet unripe.
Evening primrose has bright yellow, four-petaled flowers. Each flower has a cross-shaped stigma in the center. They open by evening and are wilted by the next day. This is where they get their common name.
Interestingly, under ultravoilet light a bright nectar “guiding" pattern can be seen. Moths, butterflies and bees can all see the ultraviolet spectrum. Their world must be interesting indeed.
Evening primrose continue to bloom from the bottom of the flower stalk upwards over a long period during the summer. As the spent flowers fall off distinct pods form along the stalk.
The seed pods are full of tiny seeds. The seeds contain approximately 7–10% gamma-linolenic acid, an essential fatty acid. The seeds are the part that are used to make evening primrose oil.
Medical claims
Evening primrose contains essential fatty acids (EFAs) called prostaglandins. There are claims that these substances aid in controlling high blood pressure, ulcers, asthma, allergies, migraine headaches, arthritis, glaucoma, menstrual cramps and possibly even some types of cancer.
Prostaglandins were first identified by two separate studies, one in England and another in Sweden, in the 1930s. The hypothesis they were pursuing was that there are certain substances cells must have to function properly. EFAs are on that list.
EFAss cannot be produced by the human body. We must ingest them from food sources. So knowing what sources of food supply these nutrients is important. And evening primrose oil is one of the most substantial sources of prostaglandins, one of the EFAs.
The following information about Evening Primrose Oil is from MedlinePlus, a service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine
http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/natural/1006.html
The common daisy in the foreground gives an idea of scale.
Possibly effective for...
Breast pain (mastalgia)
Osteoporosis, when used in combination with calcium and fish oils
Possibly ineffective for...
Symptoms of premenstrual syndrome
Attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder
Reducing symptoms of atopic dermatitis (eczema)
Hot flashes and night sweats due to menopause
Insufficient evidence to rate effectiveness for...
Chronic fatigue syndrome
Rheumatoid arthritis
Complications of pregnancy.
Sjogren’s syndrome (an auto immune disorder)
Cancer
Acne
Multiple sclerosis
Rheumatoid arthritis
Heart disease
High cholesterol
Alzheimer’s disease
So that just about sums it up. It seems they looked a wide range of studies.
And I haven't forgotten the foraging bit...
By the way, all parts of evening primrose are edible. The leaves traditionally were used as a leaf vegetable. But they're a bit hairy and strong flavoured so you may want to taste a little first.
The seeds can be used like poppy seeds and the root (first year only – not second) can be added to roasted vegetables or stews. It apparently is slightly peppery, kind of like salsify. The flowers, as is usual with all edible plants, can be tossed in to brighten salads.
So feel free to gnaw on some evening primrose as you go on walks.
.......................................
If you like this post retweet it using the link at top right, or share it using any of the links below. Questions? Comments? Derogatory remarks?
Posted by Docaitta at 12:09 PM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: flowers, Foraging, kitchen
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Are you looking for...
Translate
Search this blog
Contributors
Docaitta
Docaitta
Followers
LinkWithin
Blog Archive
► 2015 (8)
► May (1)
► March (1)
► February (2)
► January (4)
► 2014 (65)
► December (2)
► November (3)
► October (3)
► September (2)
► August (4)
► July (2)
► June (4)
► May (5)
► April (5)
► March (12)
► February (12)
► January (11)
► 2013 (279)
► December (15)
► November (14)
► October (12)
► September (14)
► August (20)
► July (31)
► June (30)
► May (28)
► April (30)
► March (28)
► February (24)
► January (33)
▼ 2012 (362)
► December (34)
► November (31)
► October (33)
► September (31)
▼ August (29)
Recipe: Vermouth Shrimp Bisque
One Weird Wild Plant: Indian Pipe
30 Minute Dinner: Cilantro Cumin Roasted Chicken w...
Refrigerator Foraging: “Sobras” Wraps
For Dessert? Sopapilla Cheesecake
Dinnertime! Italian Stuffed Eggplant
Fast Lunch: Grilled Chicken and Asparagus Sandwich...
Baking: Chocolate Whisky Cookies
How to: Bake Corn in its Husk
Recipe: Italian Grilled Cheese and “Bacon”
Foraging Recipe: Blackberry Streusel Muffins
The Easiest Recipe Ever? Homemade Mozzarella
Recipe: Squid in Chili Black Bean Sauce
Recipes: Garlicky Chicken Thighs with Cumin Grille...
Foraging: Evening Primrose (Oenothera biennis)
I've grown a new head (masthead...)
Recipe: Apricot, Blue Cheese & Chicken Sandwiches
Plant Identification: "Deadly" Nightshade
Recipe: Beer Bread Sandwich Loaf
Recipe: Cipollini Onion and Italian Meats Sandwich...
Recipe: Nectarine Shrimp Cakes and Corn Salsa
Foraging for Medicine: Yarrow
Recipe: Chorizo, Corn & Potato Wraps
Lakeside Foraging: Pickerel Weed
Recipe: Eggplant Corn Pizza with Ciabatta-style Cr...
Foraging: Spear Thistle
Recipe: Lime-Beef Quesadillas
Recipe: Tofu Basil Nectarine Wraps
Recipe: Apricot Stuffed Pork Roulade
► July (23)
► June (29)
► May (33)
► April (29)
► March (32)
► February (28)
► January (30)
► 2011 (414)
► December (27)
► November (25)
► October (27)
► September (32)
► August (33)
► July (32)
► June (30)
► May (33)
► April (29)
► March (54)
► February (49)
► January (43)
CanadianPlanet
we are in
CanadianPlanet
Nova Scotia
© 2011-13 Docaitta original material only. For duplication permission please contact. Simple theme. Powered by Blogger.